 

————

- “Kr-w"‘flwu-Apl‘ul‘l‘uuuM‘Wu—l‘utfr“rLunar!!meng --- :1 Lu» --‘-- A” m- mv--A-------«nun--u--u----...---..gwu—. r‘.‘_-—..,_A..‘ 7n......,......_..,

Space contributed as a_ public service by this magaaine.

1437'?”

  
    

       

Photo contribted by Horn/ ;

Cheers for the red, white - and you! i |

Candy Stripers helpwork wonders.They’re among for the aging, community centers, Red Cross vi
the many United Way volunteers ofall ages serv- and the USO. Support your United Fund or I
ingin hospitals,clinics, youth agencies, programs Community Chest. Help their acts of mercy” ‘

rs

\
d

Your One Gift Works Many Wonders/THE UNITED WAY/Q l

25 million families benefit from child care, family service, youth guidance, health programs and services for the armed forces through 34,500 United Way

Malcolm Snu‘l" pron gropl'

What drew 70,000 New Yorkers into Central Park?

le. Beethoven, the New York Philharmonic . . . and the By August 28th, twelve concerts later. the Philharmonic
Stagecraft mobile concert stage. had played outdoors to more than 450,000 people. We
- York needed a portable enclosure for the Philhar- think that's a record.

'. 'c's new series of free concerts in each of the city's Perhaps we can help you too. We specialize in the design
boroughs. and construction at concert shells and stages . . . outdoors
1Iey asked us to help. or indoors, portable or stationary.

4 designed the world's first mobile symphonic concert A full description of our work in the field of musical

. ' 0n Opening night, last August 10th. over 70,000 acoustics is contained in our new 12-page brochure. Write

Yorkers came to hear and see. us at Stagecraft Corporation. 88 East Ave. Norwalk, Conn.

i STAGECRAFT CORPORATION

l

‘ r-MBER. 1965 e wr'tin to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

NOVEMBER 1965 PRICE 60:

VOL. LVlll, NO. 9
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

 

Department-Only vs Community Recreation (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Ralph Andrews 422

New interests, new concepts, and new dimensions in program

Barnyard Serenade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bob Avenatti 425

Small animal farm is a popular facility

Creative Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . 427
Imagination and detailed planning results in unusual buildings

Square Dancers Do-Si-Do in their Own Building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harold Rawley, Roy B. Cunderson, and John Tuft 432

Public-private cooperation. establishes new center

 

New Hope for the Homebound . . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . Morton Thompson 435
Chicago volunteers establish mobile recreation services

The Recreation Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. A. Scholer 436
Everyone in I owa City is proud of its new facility

Recreation Afloat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ronald C. Hallberg 439
The USS Kitty Hawk is actually a sea-goin g recreation district

Jay B. Nash 1887-1965 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 459
A widely known figure in recreation and physical education

PROGRAM

Ready, Set . . . Ski! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Brink 443
Pre-ski conditioning program increases participation and safety

Directive for Fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

Army and Air Force prescribe policies and procedures for special events

F amin Recreation Scoresheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447
Promote better family relationships through recreation

ADMINISTRATION
Beware: The Spoilers Are 011 the March . . . . . . . . . . . . Jay S. Shivers 448

The insidious pattern of waste, destruction, and pollution

 

Colleges Now Teach Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Peterson 450
Constructive use of leisure is one of the great problems of our age

A)

DIGEST

 

Developing an Amateur Radio Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alfred Dobrof and Julian W. Iablin 453

An opportunity to develop skills and render community service

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 421 As We Go To Press 423
Reporters Notebook 437

Concerning Upkeep 452
Market News 456

 

People. 431
Notes For The Administrator 451

Arts and Crafts Corner 455
Resource Guide 457 New Publications 460

 

RECREATION is published monthly;) except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service organization supported y voluntary contributions. at 8 West 8th Street. New York, New
York 10011, Is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide and Book Review
Digest. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March
3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of
October 3, 1917, authorized May 1. 1924. Mlcrofilms of current issues available from University
Mlcrofilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor, Michigan.

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1965 by the

.uo
R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association. :®
5 S O c I AT I 0“ not a statement of policy of the Incorporated 1,

AMER'EK National Recreation Association. Printed in the U.S.A. ""'

 
   
 

 

4120

  
 
   
  
 
  
     
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
    
 
   
   
   
  
  
   

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Progr
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business and Advertising Man
FRANK ROWE

On the Cover

In our rapidly urbanizing so
some children will gain their
experience of farm life thr
visits to farms-in-the-zoo or t
contsructions of an earlier
(see page 425). These childre
enjoying a trip to the far
operated by the MetrOpolitan
District in Tacoma, Washi
Photograph courtesy the T
News Tribune.

Next Month

Christmas is a time of merry
of all descriptions and we w
vestigate fun with handbel
“Parties that Ring Bells” an
look in on “The Festival of
staged by senior citizens in
field, Ohio, as well as ex
Cincinnati’s Christmas tree
ated with seedcraft creatur
“The Pixies in Eden Park.” II
your left hand does not know
your right is doing when it I
to song leading, you need th
given in “Song Leading S
fled.” In “A College Ser‘v
Community,” we learn how
fornia’s Cerritos College D
expanded its community serv'
include recreation services t
dents in the area. We will als
an old armory in Bridgeport
necticut, which was convert
a modern recreation center a
cilities constructed from pr
neered steel buildings.

Photo Credits

Page 427, L. W. Ward,
Rapids, Iowa; 432-433, I0
Tuft; 436, Iowa City Press-C
Iowa City, Iowa; 439-441. 1
US Navy Photographs; 44
Seattle Times; 444, US
Photograph; 448, Florida
Bureau; 449 Jean Wolcott.
York City.



RECR

ETTERS

l
lp! Lifeguard!
ifcguard training in some areas has
me sloppy and slipshod. lt has
'hed the point, in some cases, where
‘ ater Safety lnstructor (WSl) will
0. anyone who can stay with the
rse of Junior or Senior Lifesaving.
example which will illutsrate this
: t happened in Lawrence, Kansas, in
. A WSl was teaching a class in
or lifesaving. Many of the students
(I not swim well, but the instructor
, “That’s not important!” On the
day of testing, the students were
ired to save mock victims of a
)le drowning. All went smoothly
l the last student. She proceeded to
verything wrong and almost suc-
, ed in turning her mock victim into
', ctual fatality. Yet, when the WSI
asked if the girl would pass the
.‘se, she replied, “She paid for the
, f the pool, and it would not be fair
0 otherwise." It would be nice to
' his only happens once in a while,
the frequency of such cases is in-
mg.
atistics also support the case for
r lifeguard training procedures.
rding to the Kansas State Board of
th, one county had four drowning
ns in guarded swimming areas in
; one summer. Other counties also
red drowning losses, although not
evere.
hat are some ways this stituation
be changed? There are several pos-
ties: (ll The lifeguards could be
I by the pool manager before
g. (2) Teach somewhere in WSI
lifeguard training on the how of
ling a pool. Too often, the WSI
es about the holds and releases,
neglects what are some danger
s to recognize when guarding a
area. (:3) An establishment of a
y authority which would check all
. in that area on a set of stand-
The WSl’s could have a proba-
y period in which their records
he quality of the students who
c the class would be checked. This
l continue intermittently even after
obationary period had been passed

WSI.

nus BRADEN, [lead Lifeguard,
in g Swimming [’00], Wichita,
, was.

4

re’s the Leader ?

ihere’s the leader?” is an oft-
e ‘ cry on playgrounds across the
o y. Instant identification of recre-

usn, 1965

ation leaders has been achieved by the
Stanton, California, Recreation De-
partment, through the use of the attrac-
tive and distinctive shirts which the de-
partment provides for its playground
stall. Each leader is issued two shirts:
a blue. short-sleeve sweat shirt with
gold lettering on the back saying “City
of Stanton Recreation” and'a white.
short-sleeve tennis-style shirt with blue
lettering. A badge is provided for the
front of the shirt. The shirts serve sev-

eral purposes. They aid in discipline.
encourage participation in the program.
help promote elutdmr morale. and arr-
a valuable public-relation- asset.
Stanton is a relatively new city and
as a result of recent annexation. has
rei'eral portions that have mailing all
dresses in adjoining cities. 'I hese areas
quite naturally hare diIln-ult} in identi-
fying with Stanton. It is felt that the
sight of a Stanton recreation leader con-
ducting a creative and worthwhile rec-
reation program on a playground in
these areas will help the city "image."
llUY SAV «Ct-2, JIL, Recreation Direc-
tor, Stanton. California.

 

‘ oun MAN IN PITTSBURGH

 

_ is no pirte _ ,J‘ "o‘

'WN—u" .. ,

MUNICIPAL POOL, WHITEHALL BOROUGH, PITTSBURGH, PA. 8,300 sq. ft. area includes tots'

    
   

. -
o 1%.”

pool, largo sun lawn, night lighting, ond bothhouse with 506 Coin-Lok coin-operated lockers-

Planning, supervision and service fol-
low-through — as demonstrated at this
Whitehall Pool Coin-Lok installation —

are p0pular plus values offered by our

Man in Pittsburgh, James P. Demas.

Working with Architect Herold Bradley,
A.I.A., Demas laid out and installed the
506-locker Whitehall bathhouse facility.
He personally instructed pool personnel
on the coin-operated locker Operation ——
and since the pool’s opening is providing

prompt personal service as needed.

Cost for this extra follow-through? Not
a red cent. Satisfied customers are the
best references our men can provide —— in

Pittsburgh or anywhere else!

COIN-LOK

SYSTEMS, INC.

AMERICAN LOCKER COMPANY. INC.
SUBSIDIARIES OF AVM CORPORATION

    
     
    
 

 

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.

Dopt. 115. Jones I. Gifford Avonuo
P.O. Box 1000, Jamestown, N.Y.

is

Name .......................................... ..

Address ........................................ ..
City ........................................ ..Zone .... ..State ................................... ..

 

WHITEHALL POOL CREATORS. (L to R.) "Our
Man" James P. Demos, Architect HoroId Bradley,
ALA, and Whitehall Councilman Edwin F. Brennan,
Recreation Committee Chairman admin Coin-lok
Installation.

‘ Write for new Coin-Lo}:

~ Catalogue!

— G)
I 10""
IT - mm 5's I
I at!" c“
t.

 

" Without obligation please send me
your new Conn-Lok Catalogue.

      
   

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. '12]

 

DEPARTMENT- ONLY

VS

a—‘

I
It
I
I

EDITORI‘

—.-....

COMMUNITY RECREATION

 

Ralph J. Andrews
RECREATION and park departments are, in varying de-

grees of progress, proceeding through an evolution-

ary process which is adding new interests, new
concepts, and many new dimensions in program. This is
brought about, in large part, by the alert, professionally
trained leader without giving up traditional areas of recre-
ation service. This is done while he helps to add the desir-
able, newer concepts of community recreation opportunity
and the resulting, often inexpensive, recreation resources
to the local, planned, community recreation program.

The aspects of progress to which I refer have resulted in a
change from the department-centered, department-person-
nel-centered, department-facility-centered program to one
which includes emphasis on people-centered and interest-
centered recreation. The recreation concerns of civic and
'service groups are weighed, facilities are made available,
and guidance and other assistance is rendered to them in
their recreation interests and projects. This is done even
though the recreation department does not control and op-
erate them.

Cooperative assistance is also given to arts councils, little
theater, children’s theater, collection groups, photography
clubs, and to the many local performing arts potentials.
This is recreation at its best, in which a little help from the
department may cause fine recreation opportunities to blos-

1.22

som for many citizens. These are citizens who, too ofte

never reached by the more traditional programs.

This progress helps to change the old “park” emp
upon things to one where their wise recreation use by p
becomes the purpose. It helps to change the concept of
servation from one of preservation to one of protectio
wise and best use—many times of multiple-purpose us

In the following, single, definitions may be recog

the whole philosophical base of some of our recreatio
park department’s present operational programs. In

departments more than one of the definitions may a

All of them may, in some degree, be found in the bes
grams. How many does your program include?
Regimentation is to tell them to “do it my way.”
Negativism is to tell them how they must not do it.

Limitation is to tell them how it may be done, with re

tions if anyone chooses to do it.

Imposition is to do it to them.
Paternalism is to do it for them.
Cooperation is to do it with them.
Assistance is to help them do it.
Consultation is to advise them as to how to achiev _'I

MR. ANDREWS is director of the North Carolina Comm

in Raleigh.

themselves. #

RECRE

l
l

.l

  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   

an MUCH conrnovaasv, Congress
has enacted important legislation
'ng conservation and beautifica-
This series of bills includes:

' Air Act Amendments an

Waste Disposal Act. This
ishes standards for the control of
~ obile and diesel truck emissions
' lead to exhaust controls on all
cars within two years (September

07).

Highways Beautification Act
' 5 (S 2048). This strengthens
01 over billboards and imposes
ontrols over junkyards and along
ate and primary highways and
rises $80,000,000 over the next
ears for implementation of these
ams. It also launches a positive
am for making highways more at-
ve, for the acquisition of roadside
tion sites, easements to protect
‘ y and landscaping. It authorizes
t I ,000 for these purposes for the
two years.

eague Island National Sea-
. ( PL 89-195). This establishes
., slender barrier reef off the
'ne of Maryland and Virginia as
tion’s sixth national seashore. The
ia portion of the island was

ted as Chincoteague National
ife Refuge in 1943. The island is
. e home of the famous Chinco-

_. WE GO TO PRESS

THE RIGHT TO BREATHE

President Johnson signed the Clear
Air Act Amendments and Solid
Waste Disposal Act on October 20
in the Bethesda Naval Hospital in
his first ceremonial bill-signing since
he entered the hospital for surgery.

Remarked the President on this oc-
casion:

WHEN future historians write of
this era, I believe they will note
that ours was the generation that
finally faced up to the accumulated
problems of American life. To us

has been given the task of checking

the slow but relentless erosion of our
civilization. To us has been given
the reSponsibility not only of stimu-
lating our progress, but also of
making that progress acceptable to
our children and grandchildren . . .

Since the beginning of the Indus-
trial Revolution we have been sys-
tematically polluting our air. Each
year the pollution grows worse. We
have now reached the point where
our factories, our automobiles, our
furnaces and our municipal dumps
are spewing more than 150,000,000
tons of pollutants annually into the

air we breathe—almost a half million

tons a day.

From our automobiles alone,
enough carbon monoxide is dis-
charged daily to adversely pollute
the combined areas of Massachusetts,
Connecticut, and New Jersey. The
air that is the very essence of life has
become a carrier for disease and
early death. Between 1930 and 1960,
the number of deaths fro-m one res-
piratory disease alone increased by
eight hundred percent. We can no
longer allow this problem to go un-

checked.

Air pollution is also a drain on our
resources. In the United States alone
it accounts for more than $11,000,-
000,000 in economic damages. This
amounts to nearly $30 a ear for
every man, woman, and chi d in the
nation. And yet our expenditure on
air pollution control is less than
twenty cents a year per citizen.

Rachel Carson once wrote: “In
biological history, no organism has
survived long if its environment be-
came in some way unfit for it, but
no organism before man has deliber-
ately polluted its own environment.”

We intend to rewrite that chapter
of history.

 

ponies which roam wild, living
.rsh grass.

Water Quality Act of 1954

encourages each state to establish a state
agency for the arts and humanities

through a federal grant of $25,000 to

will be available to individuals, groups,
municipal, county, and state agencies
for arts and humanities purposes. It

  
 

   
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
 

9-234). This amends the Federal
Pollution Control Act to estab-
. ' Federal Water Pollution Con-
I dministration within the Depart-
f Health, Education and Welfare,
' is authorized to establish criteria
7 er quality in preventing, control-
nd abating pollution of interstate
. Use of waters for fish, wildlife,
a reation purposes will be given
. ration in establishing criteria.
Knob-Seneca Rocks ( PL
). Establishes a new national
'on area in West Virginia. Con-
. as also recently created the Dela-
Water Gap (Tocks Island) Na-

U Recreation Area in Pennsylvania
ew Jersey (PL 89-158).

_ : RAL AID T0 ARTS and humanities
. ts is included in the recently

: National Foundation on the Arts
e Humanities Act of 1965 (HR
. S 1483). The National Founda-
,, ill be composed of a National

' ent for the Arts, a National Eu-
.4 for the Humanities, and a

1 Council on the Arts and Hu-
'- Federal fifty percent grants

In, 1965

  
 
   
  
  
  
   
     

chi

ta.

COMING EVENTS

Bielmial Meeting, Family Service As-
sociation of America, November 10-13,
Starter-Hilton, Detroit. For further infor-
mation, write to FSAA, 44 East 23rd Street,
New York 10010.

Conference, National Association for
Mental Health, November 17-20, New
York Hilton, New York City. Write to
NAMH, 10 Columbus Circle, New York
10029.

Annual Meeting, National Social Wel-
fare Assembly, November 29-30, Biltmore
Hotel, New York City. For further infor-
mation, write to NSWA, 345 East 46th
Street, New York 10017.

Centennial Celebration, Camp F ire
Girls, December 4, I 965-}! ugust 1966.
Write to Camp Fire Girls, 65 Worth Street,
New York 10013.

Women’s National Aquatic Forum,
December 23-30, See Garden, Pompano
Beach, Florida. For further information,
write to Mrs. Louise Wing, Chairman, 12
Vincent Street, Binghamton, New York.

National Swimming Pool Exposition,
January 15-18, 1966, Shamrock Hilton Ho-
tel, Dallas, Texas. Sponsored by National
Swimming Pool Institute, 2000 K Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006.

 

each state. The bill provides federal aid
of $21,000,000 a year for three years.

} A REVISED snmon of Personnel
Standards’ in Community Recreation
Leadership, prepared by the National
Recreation and Park Association Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Place-
ment, is now available from the NRPA
for $2.00. This publication, first issued
in 1930, has had seven printings with
four major revisions. The latest revi-
sion contains the most comprehensive
job analysis material available on po-
sitions common to the local public rec-
reation field. Old positions have been
updated and new ones added. Thirty-
five positions have been identified,
seven of which are new, that have not
appeared in the earlier editions. New
ones include such positions as “Out-
door Recreation Supervisor,” “Nature
Center Director,” and such auxiliary
positions as “Recreation Analyst,” “De-
tached Worker,” and “Director of Pub-
lic Information.”

In addition to the duties, responsi-
bilities, and worker qualifications for
the various positions, the report con-

423

 

TO ALL NRPA MEMBERS

Expect a new “spring look” in your new book—PARKS AND RECREATION——
in January. Let it give you a first-of-the-year lift and help you with your
buying as you look ahead to summer! This issue-—-possibly one hundred

_ pages or more—will include the annual “Buyer’s Guide,” carried by PARKS
AND RECREATION in the past but now with a more complete listing of com-
panies handling recreation equipment, supplies, and other recreation prod-
ucts. If you want to build a swimming pool or a battery of tennis courts,
airbrush a photograph, order a portable stage, set up an archery range, or
buy craft supplies for your playground, this is your book! Browse throug

it carefully. Let it work for you!

.-

Other departments of the magazine likewise will bring more complete in-

formation for practitioners in the park and recreation field. You will want
to keep each issue near at hand for quick and easy reference. If you have
let your subscription or membership lapse, or don’t subscribe at all, get on
the bandwagon but quick and renew or pick up a subscription at the present
rates—while they last. They may be increased later!

tains brief statements on such topics as
“What to Do When a Vacancy Occurs,”
“Salaries,” “Fringe Benefits,” “Per-
sonnel Practices,” and “The Meaning
of Standards.” Managing authorities
use this personnel guide extensively in
establishing personnel standards and
defining their positions. Recreation ed-
ucators, professional workers, and stu-
dents will also find many uses for this
publication. The report was produced
under the cochairmanship of Joseph E.
Curtis, commissioner of recreation in
White Plains, New York, and William
Lederer, superintendent of recreation
in Greenburgh, New York. The NRPA
hopes that as many administrators as
possible will get a copy, run a test, then
send in their suggestions. In this way
the report can continue to be revised

and updated.

PROPOSAL FOR A DAM across the Yu-
on River Valley a hundred miles north
of Fairbanks, Alaska—one of the big-
gest and costliest power projects ever—
has alarmed many conservation groups
throughout the nation according to The
New Y ark Times. A team appointed by
Secretary of the Interior Udall is now
analyzing a field study made by the
Corps of Engineers, the governor, and
a Congressional delegation fr om
Alaska. A statement from a Federal
Fish and Wildlife study last year, states,
“Nowhere in the history of water de-
velopment in North America have the
fish and wildlife losses anticipated to
result from a single project been so
overwhelming.”

) A STORM IS BREWING over Grand Can-
yon, which is threatened by the pro-
posed Marble Gorge and Bridge Can-
yon dams. Battlelines are now forming
for what may well turn out to be the
bitterest conservation fight in many
decades.

Last spring, to rally support for

424

Grand Canyon and forge a weapon for
its defense, the Sierra Club published
Time and the River Flowing: Grand
Canyon, by Francois Leydet ( reviewed
in RECREATION, April 1965). David
Brower, executive director of the club,
edited the book. He says in the fore-
word, “Most of the exquisite beauty of
Glen Canyon was destroyed early in
1963 when the U. S. Bureau of Reclam-
ation closed a dam that was not neces-
sary for this century and perhaps would
never have been necessary. Now the
same bureau has proposed to build
dams in Grand Canyon itself to end the
living river’s flowing for all this civili-
zation’s time.

“And needlessly. Looked at hard,

these dams are nothing more than hy-
droelectric power devices to produce
electricity and dollars from its sale to
pay for projects that ought to be fin-
anced by less costly means. The dams
would make no water available that is
not available already. Indeed, they
would waste enough to supply a major
city and impair the quality of the too
little that is left. . . .”
o If you are against this construction
of dams in the Grand Canyon, write or
wire Representative Wayne N. Aspin-
all, Chairman, Public Land Law Review
Commission, Washington, D.C. 20506.
—Ed.

) CONSERVATIONISTS have joined other
groups in praising a new park and rec-
reation plan for California’s redwood
country, the North Coast Redwood
Master Plan, published by Resources
Agency of California, Department of
Parks and Recreation, Sacramento. The
plan was formulated by a team of in-
dustry and community representatives
after a controversial federal proposal
for the region became known.

T he 'purpose of this report is to deter-
mine e state’s long-range needs. for
preservation of primeval redwood
groves that should be added to the state

park system and for the treatmem
these groves for their best proted
and public use and enjoyment.

The state park commission held
first public hearing of the “North 0
Redwood Master Plan” at its meal
in Sacramento on February 19, 1‘.
Other public hearings will be held
the commission to obtain expresd
from all interested persons so th
final report and plan of greatest
to the state for the preservation o
coast redwoods can be made.

) ANY ONE of the four major nort‘

- California state redwoods parks

be worthy of national park statu
the Save-the-Redwoods League be
that the best opportunity to estab
national park exists at Mill Cr
Del Norte County. The league’s
time objective of a Redwood Nal
Park now appears nearer to real'
with the recent strong endorsem
the idea by President Johnson,
Secretary of the Interior, and the
tor of the National Park Service.
National Park Service has issued
liminary report which presents
proposal. !
Other proposals have been adv
to the National Park Servce.
Over the past forty-six yea
league has developed a program '
northern Redwoods involving the y
of the most representative u ‘
forests.

  
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
    
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 

) A NEW MONTHLY journal, the
Grass Times, has just been pub '
Its first issue, dated October 1 ' "
ries an article, in a “Scanning
ture” series, by Alfred B. La '
executive director and general ma 2
of the new National Recreatio 3
Park Association, on turf-gr '
parks and recreation. Turf-Grass
promises to be very informati
the oversized eleven-and-a-half-'
fourteen-and-a-quarter-inch pag
not adapt themselves to self-mail

dling, and the first copy arrives i

tered state. Published by Tur

Publications, Inc., 218 Nineteen
nue Narth, Jacksonville Beach, F
it is available for 50¢ a copy, or '-
for a year’s subscription.

) DANCE LEADERS:A Christmas I
Dance School will be held at Ber
lege, Berea, Kentucky, Decem
January 1.

) OVERSIGHT. The material on '
ment preparation used in our S 
ber issue should have been c an ,4
N OCA Staff Report on Employme
Retirement (Autumn 1964-), pu .‘
by the National Council on the
49 West 45th Street, New York

R1".

   

and
-l
I

 
   
  
  

r rapidly
tizing areas,
children
’nerer semi
livestock and poultry
tealistic setting.

BER. 1965

Bob Avenatti

()IINTRY Ml‘Slt‘. the smell of hay,
C and the mnoing of cmvs greeted
over three hundred youngsters
and adults at the formal dedication of

the Southeast Recreation and Park
Ditrict’s Small Animal Farm in \or—

MR. M EN UN is senior recreation
supervisor for the Southeast Recreation
and Park District, Vorwallr, California.

tARNYARD SERENADE

I: and recreation district operates popular small animal farm

walk, Californiar two years ago. The
dedication climaXed two years of care-
ful preparation and planning- ~but it
only signaled the beginning of a new
and exciting program era for the South-

east Recrcation and Park District.

The district is located seventeen miles
southeast of Metropolitan Los \ngeles
and encompasses the cities of Norwalk
and La \“lirada and also includes unin-
corporated areas. The district serves a
total population of 143,700 people and
has been in operation since 1953. The
area that is now within the district’s
boundaries was predominantly used for
farms and dairy farming during the
early 1900’s and remained so until the
population explosion in the early'
1940’s. With W'orld W'ar II and the in-
creasing demands on housing in Cali-
fornia, Norwalk and its vicinity rapidly
blossomed into a “bedroom commu-
nity" which it is today. Only a few
farms remain within the area and their
operations are but a shadow of the past.

In June 1962, the proposed farm fa-
cility was placed in the hands of the
district board of directors. The board
liked the idea and voted to proceed with
the project. Work began in late 1962. At
this timc it was agreed upon b) the dis-
trict staff that the farm would quarter
young animals such as calves. cows,
horses, donkeys. goats. sheep. lambs.
pigs and piglets, ducks, chickens, and
other barnyard inhabitants.

Major structural features at tlic farm
were to include a large twentvoone
hundred-square-fmrt rcd barn with hay-
loft. windmill. duck pond. corral. largc
pcns. and a greenbelt area. Also, it was
planned to add to the barnyard pieces
of old farm equipment and machinery.

l‘lntlms‘iastic about the project. the
p a rk department maintenance crew
joined in thc search for old farm equip-
ment. They turned the surrounding
communities inside out and found seed-
ers, tillers. hay wagons. water wagons,

425

 

FIRST
CHOICE!

Send For ‘
FREE ., ‘

DIREC! PRICE
CHANG

/ i‘

./ "
FOLDING TABLES

DlRECT-from-FACTORY savings, quality
equipment and complete selection
have made modern Monroe Folding
Tables FIRST CHOICE with organiza-
tions the world over! Also attractive
savings on chairs, storage trucks,
risers, partitions, etc. Send today
for FREE 40-page catalog!

Risers and Stages Room Dividers

THE MONROE CO.
181 Church St. Colfax, Iowa 50054

 

NEW, LOW COST
VINYL LINERS FOR

SKATING RINKS

CONVERTS REEREATIONAL AREAS
(lawns, Tennis tourls, elc.)
INTO SKATING RINKS EASILY A. OUltKlY

ICEMASTER is a low-cost sheeting
made of a tough, white, heavy gauge
plastic. Athletic fields and other flat
terrain can be converted to skating
rinks easily and quickly with ICE-
MAST‘ER. It provides harder,clearer
ice for a better and longer season.
No premature melting. Gives up to
200% additional skating time. ICE-
MASTER is resistant to tears and
cuts. Available for any size Field. Send
for details.

STAFF INDUSTRIES, INC.

78-A DRYDEN ROAD
UPPER MONICLAIR. N. .I. 01043

 

  

 
  
                

THE PEELEC'I PACKAGED SHElIER!

  

,1

KWIK-BILT, INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19, Tax.

426

 

buckboards, graders, hayracks, team
harnesses, a corn grinder, and numer-
ous other pieces. An old windmill was
spotted at the Navy’s Seal Beach Special
Weapons Depot by a recreation super-
visor on his way home from work. The
Navy was approached and gladly gave
the district the windmill as it was de-
clared a surplus item.

With the physical structures rapidly
nearing completion, the next important
step was then taken—the animals. Local
contacts by Joseph F. Painter, park
superintendent, and Carl C. Fry, gen-
eral manager, and interested commu-
nity people brought in numerous ani-
mals for the farm.

An agreement also was made with
the local chapter of the Future Farmers
of America Club in nearby Artesia to
house its animals at the farm as Future
Farmer projects. The care and health
of these animals was insured, as these
young people gave special attention to
their animals and had expert technical
assistance from the local agriculture
teacher. Technical information on ani-
mals donated to the park district was
obtained from the California State Poly-
technic College in San Dimas.

An interesting sidelight to the farm
was a donation made by a local busi—
nessman who hoards his horse, Nancy,
at the farm. He threw in a World War
I-vintage truck that lends itself beauti-
fully to the farm as it creates what the
park district was seeking—the element
of time.

ODAY, as we look back on our proj-
T ect, we do so with a certain satis-
faction for the finished product is an
article of beauty and it is truly a func-
tional and recreational facility that will
increase its value to the community in
the years ahead as our population grows
and undeveloped land areas disappear.

The Animal Farm has created a dual
function for the park district and the

Every child should have mudpies. grasshoppers, waterbugs, ta
poies, frogs, mud turtles, elderberries. wild strawberries, acorn
chestnuts, trees to climb, brooks to wade in, waterlilies, woodchuc
bats, bees, butterflies, various animals to pet, hayfields, pine con
rocks to roll, sand, snakes, huckleberries, and hornets; and any ch .5.
who has been deprived of these has been deprived of the best p

of his education'r—Luther Burbank.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

T

community—none of a recreational I
ture, the other an educational exd'
ence. The educational purpose of.
animal farm has already been rea

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  

to a measurable extent. In the first
of the project’s existence, over tw
five hundred school children from
lie and private and parochial so
have participated in study trips t
farm. In addition, over twenty
sand children and parents have .-
happy recreational and education
periences in less formal and struc
situations.

The Opportunity for children
urban and suburban communiti
step into a rural setting has prov
be a valuable experience and a “
for the whole family to see agai
again when they visit Norwalk
We have found that many a young
seeing farm livestock and poultr
realistic setting for the first time.

The farm is open to the a
throughout the year, with hourly s
ules varying according to se
conditions. Conducted tours are s
uled during the morning and early
noon hours throughout the schoo
The farm is also open for viewin;
school each week day, all day Sat
and on Sunday afternoon. Duri
summer months, the farm op
gates from 10 AM to 5:00 PM, M
through Saturday, and from 1:00
5:00 PM on Sundays.

We may safely say that the fu
our farm is bright. Our project, i
is but a newborn idea with nu
avenues and byways to explore.
now, local service organizatior
civic groups are being contacted
list their services and t0 involv
in the farm’s growth. The far]
mediate success can be traced t
basic ingredients: staff foresigh

l

ning, and overwhelming enth

Truly, the project and the p

could not miss with these essenti

 

1

RE '

CREATIVE CONSTRUCTION

Yew facilities develop from dreams and budgets, from
gination and detailed planning, from high hapes and
'n-to-earth practicalities. All of this is reflected in the
' senior-citizen drop-in. center in Cedar Rapids. Iowa:

'ITED THEY
. ILT

NE FIFTH of the population in Cedar
. Rapids, Iowa, is over sixty years
and thinks, “It’s wonderful to have
“ ace like this to come to.”
hat’s the general reaction of the
ting number of men and women

Modern Facilities for Recreation

 

over sixty years of age who are now
enjoying the drop-in facilities and
planned programs of recreation and
crafts at the city’s recently completed
Senior Citizen Center. Conveniently lo-
cated downtown in pleasant, tree-shaded
Greene Square, the $90,000 contempo-
rary-styled building was built for about
$15,000—thanks to the donation of the
major part of the labor by fourteen

 

the park developed from a clay pit in Akron, Ohio; (1 new
recreation center in Ilernpstead, .‘Vew York, where the rec-
reation superintendent occupied a trailer on the site during
construction: and a clubhouse on a mountain in Denver.

building trades unions, and to 35,1“)
worth of other gifts of labor. time. ma-
terials, and furnishings by more than
140 firms, civic groups, and individuals.

The need for such a building devel-
oped steadily. Superintendent of Rec-
reation Nevin Nichols points out that
Iowa’s population has the largest per-
eentage of persons over age sixty-five
in the United States. In Cedar Rapids

Interior and exterior riews

of downtown Senior Citizen Center
in Cedar Rapids, Iowa,

shows imaginative design and decor.

 

he estimates about one fifth of the pop—
ulation, or twenty thousand persons,
are sixty or over. During the past four-
teen years, the city’s special recreation
programs geared to the interests of
these senior citizens have grown until
approximately five hundred persons
have been participating in nine differ-
ent clubs.

The director for these activities as
well as for the new Senior Citizen Cen-
ter, Mildred Scott, stresses, “These peo-
ple don’t want to sit down and do noth-
ing. They can do that at home. We have
had an interesting, diversiiied program
in Operation for them; but we have
needed a central, permanent location
with bus transportation easily available
—a place with drop-in facilities as well
as planned activities. That was our
dream. We often wondered if the city
budget would ever permit its coming
true.”

Early in 1962 the city fathers em-

ployed architect Leo C. Peiffer and
Associates to draw up plans for such a
center; but it was not until March 11,
1963 that the dream received a big
boost toward reality. On that day, rep-
resentatives fro m various building
trades unions appeared before the City
Council and pledged free labor for the
building.

Volunteer laborers and other crafts-
men worked on the construction project
evenings and weekends after their regu-
lar working day. Building tradesmen
giving of their time and skills included
sheet-metal workers, plumbers, pipefit-
ters, steamfitters, hod carriers, asbestos
workers, iron-workers, lathers, plaster-
ers, operating engineers, brick masons,
carpenters, electrical workers, painters,
cement masons, and others.

Details of the building may suggest
possibilities to other communities with
a similar need. 0f frosted earth-brown
brick, the building has forty hundred
enclosed square feet, plus an additional
eight hundred square feet under a seven-
foot canopy over a seven-foot slab of
concrete. Stationary park benches are
judiciously placed for those who like
to watch the goings-on of a big city.

The roof is a combination of specially
formed concrete mono—wings over the
mechanical areas, and sixty-foot con-
crete mono-wing tees Spanning the pub-
lic area. There is a built-up tar-and-

428

gravel roof over the entire building,
with acoustical sprayed-on plaster on
the interior.

Large floor-to-ceiling windows are in-
terspersed with brick panels along the
curved edge of the fan shape, looking
out of the square’s beautiful elm, hack-
berry, locust, and sycamore trees.
Transparent drapes of sandalwood case-
ment cloth permit the persons inside to
enjoy the view without letting passers-
by see into the building.

Location of these full-length windows
on the north side of the building elim-
inates cooling problems in the non-air-
conditioned center. Clerestory windows
to the south give an open feeling while
maintaining protection from the sun
and privacy from the street.

The major portion of the floor plan
is devoted to the large multi-purpose
area. This can be divided by movable
partitions into small areas, such as the
card room, billiard room, crafts room,
TV area, et cetera. The floor plan also
includes a kitchen, oflice storage area,
and the mechanical area with its toilets
and heating systems.

The dominant color of the building
comes from the frosted brown brick,
the white acoustical plaster ceilings, and
the white terrazzo floor. Accent colors
are provided in the chairs of bitter-
sweet, charcoal gray, and white, and in
the walnut stain of the doors and trim.

When additional landscaping is add-
ed to the existing, the center will be
surrounded by 150 shrubs and twenty-
three trees. Long-range plans also call
for the developmentaof outdoor shuflle-
board and horseshoe courts, croquet
areas, and an arts-and-crafts display
area.

By the time the building was com-
pleted and dedicated last September,
money for the furnishings had come
from a variety of sources. A group of
teenagers did the “Bossa Nova,” the
“mashed potato,” and the “twist” and
sent all the proceeds from their dance
to help the place where their elders
might prefer the waltz and polka. The
Beta Sigma Phi sorority sent the profits
from its annual Valentine’s Ball. The
piano and electric range were donated,
as were the public—address system,
chairs, a portable stage, a TV set, card
tables, and a weathersgepe. Senior citi-
zens helped too. The Retired Teachers

   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
  
  

Organization of Cedar Rapids sup
one of the long work tables which 0
in so handy for sewing and hand
activities. It was at these tables
the center’s handcraft class has
nylon-net scouring balls to sell in u
to buy a small rug loom for the c
Members of the needlework guild .
center are now making quilts i
they will give to Public Health n
to distribute where needed.

Thus, the new Senior Citizen C
not only helps the senior citizens
young in mind and heart—it also
them serve others as they contin
be an important and integral part 0
Cedar Rapids community. — N
GIBBONS Zoox. This material is
with permission, from Constru

Craftsman, December, 1964.

LE ROY-ON-
THE-SPOT

M OST park and recreation ad
trators keep their nose t
grindstone but the superintende
recreation in Hempstead, New
has been keeping his in the c
mixer during the construction of -
community center building to be
cated on November 11. Hemps
superintendent, Le Roy L.
served as acting clerk of the work
spent approximately four hours
on the construction site. AltllOU
had access to several other recr
center oflices located at other park
a rented trailer “on the site beca '
oflicial oflice of the department.
project met its completion deadli

Many changes were made as the
ect moved ahead, the result of clo
operation of architect, contracto
the superintendent. Mr. Tintle m
department equipment and per
available at times to facilitate the
and make certain the communi
ceived the best job possible. I
weekends of heavy snow, the enti
was plowed out quickly so th
would lose no time on the job in
aration for work. He arranged fo
porary power until the electric
tractor could get his electricity.
other areas of cooperation enabl 
construction crews to eliminate t
erable red tape. Photographs
taken daily of all phases of const

l

REC

 

plan and architect’s rendering of new center in llempstead, .New Yerk... sim-
in the middle of a thirty-two-acrc park. It replaces a mansion built in the
. 1900’s. New building is length of a football field with two floors.

th black and white and color.
1e new building replaces a thirty-
-room mansion built in the early
1 5. Situated in the middle of a
~y-two-acre park, the new center will
. utifully landscaped by the recre-
] and park department from its own
houses and nurseries. Building
lications were carefully written to
e the most functional operation
~ sacrificing nothing in reducing
ll maintenance costs by spending
to more now. An example of this is
I 20 floors rather than asbestos tile.
uilding is the length of a football

with two floors. Its exterior is

U . .

‘ interspaced w1th rough stone.
questions? Send them to the de-
ent, 335 Greenwich Street, Hemp-
:, New York.

Men, 1965

OUT OF A
CLAY PIT

A WILD and undeveloped clay pit area
adjacent to a school in the heart
of Akron, Ohio, has been turned into
Mason Park, a new recreation develop-
ment which extends over fourteen acres
of land. Made possible by approxi-
mately $200,000 of city income tax rev-
enue, Mason Park is designed to serve
twenty-six thousand Akron residents.
The park was chosen as the initial site
to be devel0ped under a long-range,
city-wide park-and-recreation eXpan-
sion plan. The shelter house, an en-
closed, attractive building of modern
architecture, constructed of brick, glass,
and pre-cast concrete, is one of the main
features of the park.

For many years the area, adjacent to
Mason School, was a, wild'and unde-
veloped clay pit where children played
and swam. Citizen’s pleas for the im-
provement of the site were ignored until
very recently. Now the efforts . and
dreams of Akronites, young and old,
have become manifest in the beautiful
and modernistic Mason Park.

The first months of the park’s opera-
tion occurred during the winter months,
thus a majority of the programing was
designed to utilizehthe indoor facilities
of the shelter house. When weather
permitted, children participated in out-
door activities such as ice skating, sled-
ding, and basketball. Skating was made
available through the flooding of the
basketball court area. The courts.are
slightly inclined from the center to the
outer boundaries of the asphalt, making
the flooding process feasible. Lighting
of the basketball and tennis courts
makes evening skating possible: The
lighting system is of the p'ay-as-you-go
type. Coins are_ionserted into a box
which controls the.length of time that
the lights will be on. The children help
to shovel snow from the skating area.

The shelter house includes a large
recreation room, an oliice, a small
kitchenette, an arts-and-crafts room,
restrooms, and two storage rooms which
house equipment for both outdoor and
indoor sports activities, and a utility
room. Many varied activities are being
carried out in the large assembly room
which is 44’-l)y-55’. Golden-age meet-
ings, junior and senior high-school
dances, physical-education, activities,
lectures, clinics, and movies are being
held in this room. A smaller room is
being used for arts and crafts, small
group meetings, and as a nursery. Ad-
jacent to this room is a storage area
which includes a wash basin and many
cupboards and drawers housing arts-
and-crafts materials. The spacious rest-
rooms are accessible from outside as
well as from within the building.

Numerous groups are making good
use of the kitchenette. On some occa-
sions the area is used strictly for the
sale of concessions; other times it is
used for the heating or chilling of cov-
ered dishes. Many of the kitchen uten-
si‘s and materials are being provided
by the Mason Park Mother’s Club.

The outdoor portion of Mason Park
includes a large hard-surface area. On

429

this area are four tennis courts and four
lnulti-purpose courts, on which four
basketball games, eight badminton
games and four volleyball games can be
organized interchangeably. Three ball

diamonds on the site can be used for

Class A baseball, softball, and Little
League. Outfields of these ball dia-
monds are convertible for the playing
of football, soccer, and field hockey.
Five horseshoe pits, a golf driving cage,
two clock-golf areas, four shufiieboard
courts, hopscotch, a dodgeball area,
senior citizen’s patio, and a wooded
picnic and nature study area are other
interesting features of the park.

Mason Park is very proud of its crea-
tive tot‘ot, an innovation in modernistic
playground designing for small chil-
dren. The equipment is designed to
encourage the children to use their
imaginations. There is a map of Akron
painted on a sizeable portion of the
asphalt area. Major streets and the
various wards are indicated on this map
which enables youngsters to become
more familiar with the city. A minia-
ture gas station gives the children an
opportunity to service their tricycles
and bicycles. Several rocks are ar-
ranged for climbing purposes. Another
device for climbing is a tree which is
surrounded by sand. A three-foot sewer
pipe is available for the children to
crawl through. Mounds of dirt are ar-
ranged for sliding. There are railroad
ties for climbing and rails for balancing
and walking. Other features of the tot-
lot include a miniature basketball court,
Donald Duck swings. and a climbing
structure with a built-in slide and a
fireman’s pole.

An unusual apparatus is the spray

sculpture which releases water for the
children to dabble in. This piece of
equipment is also utilized as a jungle
gym. Benches for adults are placed at
strategic points around the totlot.
Attendance at the park has been ex-
ceptional, especially in the areas of ju-
venile activities. Because of the high
rate of attendance, the junior, senior,
and grade-school gatherings are ideally
set up to include children from the Ma-
son Park community. Adults from
throughout the entire city are encour-
aged to participate in park functions.
Mason Park is staffed by a com-
munity center supervisor who is also in

430

charge of recreation programing in the
neighboring schools. There is a full-
time assistant, the recreation super-
visor, who is also in charge of women’s
activities: In addition to the two regu-
larly paid full-time and three part-time
employes, there are thirty volunteers
who assist in classroom leadership,
sports activities, and chaperoning.
These volunteers are usually parents or
similarly interested parties. — ARTHUR
YOUNGBLOOD, Community Center Su-
pervisor, Mason Park, Akron, Ohio.

MILE-HIGH
CLUBHOUSE

THE NEW clubhouse at John F. Ken-
nedy Municipal Golf Course, just
west of the Cherry Creek Dam in Den-
ver, Colorado, occupies a rise overlook-
ing the golf course, with the principal
view westerly toward the mountains.
The west wall, principally glass, is shad-
ed by a sixteen-foot roof overhang,
which also covers an outdoor area for
the multi-purpose room and snack bar.
This outdoor area is paved with a pat-
terned exposed aggregate concrete and
may be served from the kitchen.

The first floor covers thirty-five hun-
dred square feet and contains a golf
pro shop, snack bar and lounge, multi-
purpose room, starter’s room, and kit-
chen area. The lower level, accessible by
two interior stairs and an exterior door,
also covers thirty-five hundred square
feet and contains locker and shower
rooms for men and women, storage fa-
cilities for thirty-five electric golf carts,

. . I I
 ,  - -" ~ ‘ r." ,..r ,.,2.'e,‘,._:l.  _ ..r§§‘:1:7?..-: '. ' '
-,--. -- .. . ~ --.‘-.- . -- ' " ' ‘

New John F. Kennedy Golf Course Clubhouse in Denver is set down ("I'll
grandeur. Its roofed patio on the west looks out on towermg mounmm

  
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
 

and general storage for the golf -
and kitchen.

The clubhouse is completely air
ditioned, with glass walls on the
sides facing the golf course and G
oak paneling on the interior Walls.
designed so that its operation 0
limited to ticket sales and coffee u
panded to a full-scale restaurant 0
tion. First floor and roof are of p
concrete T-slabs. Roof slabs are
ported by two precast concrete b
resting on a series of brick piers,
exterior walls of brick and glass.

Money for the clubhouse co
tion, as well as all other costs f
first and third phases of the proje
being supplied from the golf-expa
fuud. No tax money has been sp
the golf course. #

0 Another article on new faciliti
appear next month. Previous a
on modern recreation buildings
areas include “Modern Theater
cepts and Community Drama,"
reation, May 1965, “Planning
Areas," April 1965,- “Super-Bloc
Areas," April 1965; “New Form
Facades," January 1965,- “Bike '
December 1964; "Development
Children's Zoo," October 1964,-
nois' Flying Saucer," September
“Multi-Level Zoo," June 1964; ”
ter in the Garden," December
“Foldaway Theater," October
"Creative Tank Town," October
“Five-Alarm Arts and Crafts,” 0
1962,- “Prefabricated Steel Buildi
December 1961,- “From Drea
Drawing Board," Gene Rotsch,
1961,- “New Concepts for For
Recreation Structures," January

-—Ed.

   
      
    

. ,
w.

. “.5119. “.1. .m. :. slum. .{v‘i ,  . How. 2 who...“

R EL

 

llllllY
I’l"|‘llll

' TIAOIIIIMKEI

 

 

 

Incorporated

What a great way to keep the kids
sittin’ pretty . . . films, films and
more films from Films Incorpo-
rated, America’s largest single
source of the finest 16mm motion
pictures. Reservations now give
you the widest choice of MGM,
0th Century Fox, Paramount,
amuel Goldwyn, Disney, Warner
I: ros. . . . shorts, feature length,
lor or black and white, Cinema-
ope. You name it. . . FI has it
comedy, musical, sports story,
venture, western.

Take advantage of the new Films-
or-Children catalog just out! The
n ore you program now, the further
our rental dollars will take you.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
    
   
   
  
  
  

rite Dept. FI—SP4046. Request
he new Films-for-Children catalog.

Films
Incorporated

subsidiary ol EncycIOpaedia Britannica Films Inc.
1150 Wilmette Avenue
Wilmette, Illinois 60091

 

1M:

ADE‘D

PEOPLE
IN THE NEWS

Luella B. Snoeyenhos, supervisor of
girls’ and women’s activities with the
Baltimore Bureau of Recreation, retired
in September after completing a career
of thirty-nine years of service to the
girls and women of the city of Baltimore
and Baltimore County. Miss Snoeyen-
has has dedicated naerly four decades
to the development of girls’ athletic and
recreation programs on the play-
grounds and in the recreation centers
and school of the community.

As chairman and a member of many
panels at the national, regional, and
local level, Miss Snoeyenbos has been
able to bring standards and objectives
in girls’ programs to the attention of rec-
reation administrators throughout the
country. She has helped expand exist-
ing programs and initiated new ones
with improved standards and goals as
the major objective. This has been ac-
complished largely through the train-
ing of recreation leaders, specialists,
and referees and umpires in the tech-
nique of teaching, coaching, officiating,
and in the operation of activities such
as basketball, softball, track and field;
folk, square, modern, ballet, and tap
dancing; club activities; and baton
twirling. At the present time she is pro-
moting a new activity, bamboo rhythms.
Miss Snoeyenbos is the author of hun-
dreds of bulletins devoted to the in-
structional and organizational phases

of girls’ and women’s activities.

Senator Clinton P. Anderson of
New Mexico received the Distinguished
Service Award of the American For-
estry Association at its 90th Annual
Meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in
September. Senator Anderson was sin-
gled out by AFA President Peter F.
Walzek for his longtime leadership in
conservation both as a member of the
US. Senate and as a former Secretary
of Agriculture. “Practically every con-
servation measure enacted since 194-5
of major significance has had Senator
Anderson’s stamp on it,” Mr. Watzek
said. Singled out for special acclaim
u as the Senator’s leadership in helping
to amend mining laws that improved

multiple-use management on national

 

legislation, and

water research measures.

forests, wilderness

Ruth A. O’Neil, county supervisor for
Maricopa County, Arizona, and a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of the Na-
tional Recreation and Park Association,
has resigned her county position to join
the staff of the Bureau of Outdoor Rec-
reation in Washington, D.C. Mrs.

O’Neil is serving her second term as
president of the National Association of
Parks and Recreation Officials, an affili-
ate of the National Association of Coun-
ties. She is also president of the Arizona
State Supervisors and Clerks Associa-
tron.

George \Vard,
director of parks
and recreation in
Saskatoon, Sas-
katchewan, receiv-
ed a Citation for
Outstanding A-
chievement, the
highest award of the Parks and Recrea-
tion Association of Canada, at the asso-
ciation’s annual meeting in Toronto. In
presenting the award, John Janzen,
Ontario regional director for") the "asso-
ciation, said, that Mr. Ward ’is ' “a
driving force . . . in his community and
in all affairs of national and interna-
tional concern in which he has partici-
pated. By his positive approach to the
whole field of recreation and parks, he
made himself sought as a speaker ad-
visor, and lecturer across the length
and breadth of Canada . . . .He has
always believed that no person leaves
his footprints in the sands of time by
sitting on his haunches in the sand.”

Myron (Min) Hendrick, director of
recreation in Niagara Falls, New York,
heard his name mentioned all over the
place at the recent annual meeting of
the Niagara Amateur Athletic Union.
He was setting up the movie projector to
show the official films of the 196'}
Olympic Games when he heard his name
and looked up to be honored with a
plaque for his outstanding work and
devoted service to amateur athletics.
Earlier in the meeting he had been nom-
inated as a delegate to the national meet-
ing in Washington, D.C. on December
1-5. Later he was elected vice-president

of the Niagara AAU.

L... -1---- _.-....:-.. n-.....-..... .421

     

w.

 

assassin) as “

.  "We sat! it"? ROW!!! 5' E. as

  

Harold Rawley, Roy B. Gunderson, and John Tuft

of 150 to 200 teenage square

dancers from the fifth grade
through high school appear by age
groups for dance lessons at the West-
ern Dance Center in Sullivan Park,
Spokane, Washington. The sustained
interest 'of these young folks, in the
c h a p e r o n e d 'and well-disciplined
classes, makes it one of the most suc-
cessful of the all-season recreation pro-
grams sponsored by the Spokane
County Department-of Parks and Rec-
reation and Western Square Dance As-
sociation. Few groups, if any, dance
on a beautiful maple floor in a spacious
building built for the exclusive use of
square dancers., The adults take over
in the evenings, andit is a rare week-
day night that there is not some square
or round dance activity going on in
Sullivan .Park.

'The Western Dance Center is a steel-
frame building, 60 feet wide by 110
feet long, with a 20-foot-wide wing ex-
tending the full length along one side.
A fully equipped kitchen and dining
room are located in the wing. A fifteen-
foot section along one end is taken up
with office space, storage and cloak
rooms, and dual sets of restrooms, one
set for dancers and the other with out-
side entrances for use by park patrons.
The heart of the structure, of course, is
the unobstructed fifty-four hundred

E VERY Saturday afternoon a group

MR. RAWLEY is past-president of the
Western Dance__Association of Spokane
County, Washington; MR. GUNDERSON
is superintendent and MR. TUFT, assist-
ant superintendent of the County Parks
and Recreation Department.

432

square feet of . maple floor under a
twelve-foot acoustic tile ceiling. The en-
tire building is insulated and heated.
The exterior has been finished with
cedar boards in a rustic style to con-
form with the natural environment.

It is perfectly obvious to those who
are familiar with building costs that
you do not build eighty-eight hundred
square feet of enclosed floor space with
coupons! Curious administrators might
well ask just how any park department,
operating 0 n t h e usual restricted
budget, even sells the idea, much less
finances the construction of such a large
building for the exclusive use of one
recreation_ group.

The truth of the matter is that the
park department did not sell the idea;
it was sold the idea! It did not spend
a penny of tax money on the building;
it was financed by community-minded
people who made use of every known
money-raising scheme and then actually
built the building by utilizing their own
skills and brawn. The people who did
it belong to the Western Dance Associa-
tion of Spokane. The merging of their
efforts with the recreation objectives
of the Spokane County Park Depart-
ment has resulted in an unusual public-
private partnership.

THE WHOLE THING started in 1957
when the members of a dance club
decided that something positive should
be done about providing the several
hundred local dancers with adequate
facilities in the same way that golfers,
tennis players, swimmers, et cetera each
have exclusive facilities to suit their

One of the first centers designed

exclusively for them is a public-prion

  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 

particular needs. Dancers are 
fussy about the condition of a

floor as golfers are about their g
and acoustics are as important to
as they are to amateur theatre g
Very few school gymnasiums or s
multi-purpose units meet these re
ments, and, even with such han
their availability to dancers is s
to the prior rights of others. S
dancers are a friendly, gregario
and lack of space to hold their
borees at convenient times in a pl
atmosphere is extremely frustrat

This club started a fund to b
hall for square dancers alone. T
spread rapidly throughout the d
community, and, before the end
year, committees with county-wi
resentation were active on every
of the project. Four years la
September 30, 1961, th es e »
proudly held their official gran
ing dance in their own hall in
Park.

Organizational work quickly
in incorporation, so that busine
could be handled properly and
confidence and recognition gain
objectives of the Western Dan
ciation were soon pretty well k
a wide area from the continu
rage of publicity covering their
activities in the newspapers
radio and TV. It was probably
of the fine cooperation of the
media that the project bega
thought of as a community aff
when the association and the '
County Park and Recreation
ment eventually got together, th

RI

SI-DO IN THEIR OWN BUILDING

  
  
 

ts from the start were on the com-
ground of community recreation

ds.

 
  
   
   
   
   
     
  

what first brought the association
the Spokane County Park Depart-
t. A site committee quickly dis-
ered that local zoning ordinances
ricted its search to either industrial
business areas, high-cost land in
esirable neighborhoods, or to agri-
ural areas where available sites were
erally on quite remote side roads
t access in the winter months would
uite a problem. The ideal site was
k-like property. The committee
nd that the Spokane County Park
artment had been studying a com-
hensive survey of county park needs

was just about to take action on a
-range program that would give

    
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  

rity to acquisition of new park
isting parks were either fully de-
ped or plans had been formulated
ch removed them from considera-
as a hall site, but soon the ideal site
ared when the county acquired
ral acres of wooded land adjacent
e Spokane River on Sullivan Road,
all-weather highway. The county
missioners agreed that the associa-
’s project appeared to be a natural
net to the tentative development
for this area, and, in November
3, they gave the association a thirty-
year lease on a building site, in-
ing water and sewer connections to
contemplated park systems, but
a protective stipulation that build-
onstruction had to be started with-

EMBER, 1965

he need for a suitable building site

 

The Western Dance Center is in a wooded area adjacent to the Spokane River.

in three years and substantially finished
in five years.

The Spokane County Park and Recre-
ation Department had solved the site
and utility problem, but the huge task
of financing and constructing the build-
ing itself still remained. Benefit dances,
salmon barbecues, turkey rallies, rum-
mage sales, and other schemes to raise
money continued without any abate-
ment, but the goal was still far in the
future. Estimates of costs, based on de-
tailed plans that friendly architects had
prepared, ran up to $60,000, which
made it evident that additional financial
help was needed. Loan agencies were
not prepared to risk money with no
more security than unpredictable in-
come from promotions, and especially
for a building on public property. It
was apparent that the dancers them-
selves had to supply the answer, and
many of them did by making personal

pledges. Later, when the chips were
really down and construction was un-
derway, some of them came right back
and loaned additional substantial
amounts that insured completion;
B UILDINC plans were changed
abruptly late in l959-when the
association was ofl'ered a'°'di'smantled
steel-frame building? complete with
metal roofing and a mapleil‘oor, which
had previously been used’ih a'portable
roller rink. There. were also quite a few
thousand board feet of timber and live
gas-heating units. The price was $7,120.
The association had $8,000 in the bank,
so the purchase was made in January
l960. The building parts were in stor-
age some distance away, and it was
early summer before all the kegs and
boxes of bolts and nuts, steel members,

lumber, and flooring could be brought.
to Spokane. The resulting stOcltpile

433

looked like a unkyard, but the associa-
tion had the vital parts of its building.

New plans and cost estimates were
prepared fOr the necessary remodeling.
'1 full or partial basement was con-
sidered desirable but not absolutely
necessary:as far as the association was
concerned, The Spokane County Com-
missioners were again approached to
see if they were interested in construct-
ing basement space for other commu-
nity activities under the dance hall. The
proposal was considered for some time
by the commissioners but they finally
decided in August 1960 that the limited
available revenue should still be direc-
ted toward acquisition of parklands
rather than toward construction.

The association construction com-
mittee immediately went to work on the
no-basement plan. The concrete founda-
tion was poured and the trusses were
assembled in September 1960, all with
volunteer labor. The work slowed down
during cold weather, but work crews
went at it again every Weekend in the
spring and then evenings as the weather
moderated. Hundreds of manhours
(and womanhours) of labor, free use
of equipment, contributions of material,
and scrounging for salvaged fixtures
finally resulted in the completion of a
virtually complete building by the fol-
lowing September. Various interior
improvements have since been made
and additional furnishings added from
time to time. A new dining-room wing

was added in 1964 and other work is
planned for the future.

The $32,000 in actual cash that has
been spent, together with all the do-
nated labor and material, has produced
a building with a replacement cost of
at least $85,000, yet the association has
a bonded indebtedness of only about
$6,000 which it is paying off at the
rate of $1,000 per year.

Adjoining park facilities comple-
ment the structure and add greatly to
the overall value of the center, both
monetarily and physically. The Spo-
kane County Park and Recreation De-
partment has undertaken the responsi-
bility for landscaping the area im-
mediately adjacent to the building. A
new paved parking area will be com-
pleted' in 1965 by the department. The
adjoining park area, with several hun-

134

dred feet of frontage on the beautiful
Spokane River, continues to develop
with the cooperation of the Spokane
Valley Women’s Club. Already com-
pleted are a picnic shelter, kitchen
shelter, playground equipment, and ex-
A fully night-
lighted horse-riding ring has been com-
pleted in this Western atmosphere by
interested horse-riding clubs coopera-
tively with the department.

tens1ve landscapmg.

MEMBERSHIP in the association costs
$1.00 per person for as long as he
is active or interested in the organiza-
tion. Each dance club afliliated with the
Spokane Area Council of the Square
and Folk Dance Federation of Wash-
ington is entitled to elect two couples
to serve on the board of trustees of the
association. Enough other names for
trustees-at-large are drawn from the
membership list to make a total of one
hundred. The trustees meet once a year
to fill vacancies on the board of direc-
tors as the staggered terms of the seven
couple board members expire. Ninety-
two trustees appeared at the annual
meeting in February 1965, and all eight
of the absentees had planned to attend
but were unable to because of unfore-
seen circumstances.

The administration of the building is
handled entirely by the board of direc-
tors. They schedule the use of the hall,
handle all financial affairs, and work
with other square-dance organizations
in the area on promotional work. For
instance, the board has an active mail-
ing list of about five hundred families
who receive a monthly newsletter on
association matters, to which are at-
tached reports of activities of the other
square-dance organizations and notices
of their future events.

The board collects all the fees and
pays all the operating expenses, with the
exception of maintaining the park and
building, cosponsored by the Spokane
County Park and Recreation Depart-
ment. This arrangement relieves the
county of an awkward fiscal problem
involving budgeting and cost account-
ing subject to public audit. It also elimi-
nates personnel problems that might
arise from the part-time employment of
specialists such as a caller teacher for
the youth program. The board simply

pays the caller a professional fee in

accordance with the prevailing rate
the area, and he is in no sense cons
ered a public employe.

The association, on the other has
cannot afford to employ a full-ti»:
caretaker for the building and, in f?
does not wish to assume the legal
sponsibility of being an employer. '1'
county, therefore, has arranged to
clude the hall in its overall park cm
and this work is now done by a residti
caretaker. The association periodica-q
reimburses the county for this servtl
in an equitable manner consistent w
the expenses it has incurred in connrl
tion with the youth program.

In June 1964, the Washington Std
Federation of Square and Folk Danctl
held its convention festival in Spokat
and the valley. With more than thl
thousand dancers traveling from C:
fornia, Oregon, Canada, Idaho, MO'
tana, and Washington, all areas m
well represented. The ru*tic squa'.
dance building at Sullivan Park wast
main station for the dancers, many us.
the park area as headquarters, wit
camping trailers and tents for the thrv:
day festival. This is just one of t
many Western Square Dance festiv‘
and special functions held at the .,
cious Western Square Dance build‘
at Sullivan Park.

The Western Dance Center is nox
its fourth year of use. It has truly b
the center of square- and round-d
activity in Spokane County as e
sioned by the people who made a dr
a reality. A stipulation in the origi
site lease that the premises shall no
used for any other purpose than a
reation area has not been violated.
center was built for all dancers
every event that has ever been hel
the hall has been open to everyone,
gardless of which dance club or gr
might be the hosts for the occasion

Another stipulation in the land 1
is that any buildings placed the

shall become part of the real prop

and upon termination of the lease,
shall vest in the county. This is a nor

protective clause for the county, b
goes much further than that. It is p
tive assurance to those hundreds
people who have worked on the pro
that no private individuals in the fu
will benefit in a financial way from
ultimate disposition of the building.

  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  

RECREA

 
   

    

 
    
   

     

    

 

  

  
   

      

a" 1.
HI. t‘  i ‘
waste-is??? 
‘v‘ 5. ‘0,  ‘1‘ 
' "9  i 

  
       

  

      

\ r
m g o' /
Kiwi” “ff 
ti {‘7’} is  
\ . ‘ 9:?y..p.a U l .
I

aft \ I. U _

'\ ‘ \\ I, ’1

M«%?
ii

on Thompson, Ed.D.

OUR MILLION PERSONS are con-
demned to loneliness, unable to
leave their homes because of ill-

“ and disability. Now mobile recre-

m projects are giving them a new

e on life.

n the fall of 1963, a small group of

unteers called the Chicago Women’s

nmittee of the National Recreation
ociation agreed to sponsor a recrea-

1 service for homebound handi-

1 ped adults in Chicago. The project

irman, Mrs. Conway H. Olmstead,

her small committee of a dozen ded-
ted women were oriented and trained
he NRA Consulting Service on Rec-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped.

‘ Consulting Service had pioneered

development of such a program

ough a federal Vocational Rehabili-

'011 Administration

0-62.

11 November 1963, the Chicago
nebound Project hired a profes-

nal recreation director, Marjorie

‘ hop, who began to interview handi-

ped homebound adults for possible

reatiou service. The initial caseload
tfteen persons were referred to the
gram by the Multiple-Sclerosis Clin-
ud Arthritis Clinics in Northwestern
ieal School, Mt. Sinai Home-Care.
Grant Hospital. The National Arth-

   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 

grant during

)-

.' . THOMPSON is director of the Na-
al Recreation and Park Association
tilting Service on Recreation. [or

[U and Handicapped.

EHBER. 1965

it‘ll. 1:3: ' h i"
(I  .,
italiihgtws ilf'ai't'w: ~ '91:
mama‘s?!” ; 2.. n,
“(has a‘h- 2,9,4! .. 8:3,,
my”? *4 an

EW HOPE FOR THE
OMEBOUND

 
 
    
  
     
 
  
  
 

...o;‘ . ‘

$49
t; '

     
    
 
  

ritis and Rheumatism Foundation and
the Multiple-Sclerosis Society, cooper-
ating agencies in planning the project,
were responsible for making the orig-
inal referral contacts in Chicago.

Today, the project has received a to-
tal of 135 referrals, eighty of whom
have been interviewed and are receiv-
ing service. Eight of the handicapped
recipients are now serving as volunteers
in the program. The original group of
twelve committee members now consists
of fifty-eight. Some serve as fund rais-
ers or contribute other valuable serv-
ices, while the majority provide direct
recreation services centered around the
individual in his home.

The project has grown in scope and
intensity of activity. The homebound
not only receive recreation in their
homes but are brought out into park
recreation centers, to the homes of the
committee members, and to various
recreation and cultural facilities in the
community. Home programs consist of
music, crafts, books, active and quiet
games, and other activities which can
be participated in by a bed patient,
wheelchair or ambulatory individual,
either alone or together with the vol-
unteer or family members.

Two new exciting programs con-
ducted for the homebound this year are
a special swimming class and an arch-
ery program. The Chicago Park Arch-
ers are giving ten wheelchair cases in-
struction in archery. The swimming

program has been extremely successful.
Through the cooperative efforts of the
Recreation Department, Red Cross, and
firemen, twenty homebound handi-
capped pchOns are included in a weekly
swimming program. This seemingly
simple program is actually a monumen-
tal achievement for these homebound
persons include severely disabled mul-
tiple-sclerosis and arthritic cases, some
of whom have not been out of their
homes for many years.

In working with the homebound sev-
eral major problems exist which make
it very difficult to accomplish the goals
of social rehabilitation. Most home-
bound persons are in the lower strata of
economic productivity and they are
faced with inappropriate housing and
transportation difliculties. “These prob-
lems. in turn,” says Miss Bishop, “make
the mildly disabled become homebound
in walk-up flats and make the more dis-
abled become desperate.” Living quar-
ters such as these mentioned usually
have steep narrow stairs, lack railings,
poor lighting, and inadequate heating
and ventilation. Transportation is one
of the bugaboos of a recreation pro-
gram for the handicapped. Many home-
bound cannot negotiate a bus, cab, or
private car, and specialized transporta-
tion is either costly or not available.

These conditions along with the acute
disability are major causes of emotional
distress and withdrawal that contribute
to the condition “homebound.” It is
easily apparent that Chicago’s Recrea-
tion Service for the Homebound has
given many socially deprived citizens a
new lease on life.

More than twenty-five agencies in
Chicago have evidenced a keen interest
in the homebound project. United Cere-
bral Palsy in Chicago is studying the
program for the expressed purpose of
initiating its own homebound service.
Religious organizations are looking to
the project for methods of bringing
their homebound to church. The project
is exciting the interest of the entire city
of Chicago. It is vivid proof of what can
he done when agencies in a large city
cooperate towards a common goal.
Other communities can profit from this
demonstration project to develop simi-
lar programs for the four million other
lonely homebound persons in the Uni-
ted States. #

4-35

 
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
       
   

THEM,
RECREATION

CENTER

. .-

 

Young and;old, everyone
in Iowa'City is. proud
of their hew'facility

E. A. Schpler,i

REcREATION CENTER is for the enjoyment of all the the center than the third-grade students of Isabel '-

citizens of a community and a focal point of the area, gomery of Longfellow Elementary School. During

i‘ physically and culturally. Iowa City, Iowa, is justly creative writing class, the children conceived the ide
“proud of its new, “modernistic center dedicated last fall. writing about the new recreation center, the hub of

Robert Lee, superintendent of recreation, and members of world. Working together, they drafted a poem in hon

the Playground and Recreation Commission proposed a the building. Then, with the help of their music tea

“bond issue in 1962 that was Passed on favorably by the Hazel Fritze, the children evolved a tune to fit the w
voters and instituted'construction of the $660,000 building. With musical accompaniment provided by Margaret

Perhaps no one‘has better expressed their feelings about ner, elementary music supervisor, the children sang

DR._SCHO,LER' is professor of recreation at the State University song at the annual 5011001 mUSiC Program in Fabruary
of Iowa in Iowa City. ‘ a warm round of applause from the audience for these wo

 

  

. Third Grade
' . THE RECREATION CENTER Longfellow School

 I.» . Iowa City, Iowa

   
 

;The' rec-re-a-tion cen-ter is a good place to play, I
But swim-ming is the one I think is fun, There’s

   
   
 
   
  
 

l_—--_-',m-_--—_m
4.1%.!- - I - ‘0-

I-u-J-I-
III-!2_KO_I-----

  

  
   

   
 
   

there and 0 there al-most ev’ry . hus pay your
-ven a glace where you use a gun. I like to, I like to, I like to play

 

    

                   
 
   
  

   

And Quick as wink you’ll «soon be there. It does-n’t cost. a pen- ny It
pool. And once I saw them use a fun-ny tool. Oh ping - pong IS fun for

    
 

     

 

\ .
nn-_-_—nw--_-
1-3n--'—- ‘U_‘U-__-

            
  
  

does-n’t cost a dime, they just want you to have a good time. You put
«. ev- ’ one, There’s a weight that weighs “a- bout a ton. So many,

          

    

   

          

       
       

 

skates and a- way you race, or jump on the ramp and go in- to space!
things there are to do. I hope that you Wlll try a few !

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 

holarship Bowl

UND-RAISING for scholarships takes
many forms. On February 11,
58, Mrs. Ellen E. Linson, then presi-
nt of the Maryland Recreation Soci-
. , appointed a scholarship committee
‘ explore the possibility of establishing
scholarship and expanding existing
. unty and city recreation department
holarships in the state. In a report to
e society, Warren Kershow, the schol-
ship chairman, reported that as of
’ ay 1, 1959, the society had in force
‘ - $250.00 scholarship to the Univer-
ty of Maryland and was considering
. second. Since that time, the Mary-
d Recreation and Parks Society has
-, anted six scholarships to the Univer-
'ty of Maryland in recreation and
 ks. The grant has increased from
‘ original $250.00 to $314.00 per year
ich covers matriculation and all fix-
; fees at the university. In the past,
onies for the grant have been raised
ough theater parties, rafiles, special
aces, and individual donations by
meers and member departments.
Last year, Fair Lanes, Inc., a bowling
n cern, proposed that the society use
" ne of its bowling centers in the state
a a Beat the Leader Bowling Tourna-
nt. The monies raised would go in
11 to the society’s scholarship fund.
It the society’s next executive commit-
‘ meeting, the proposal was discussed
d approved. A meeting was then ar-
nged by the scholarship chairman
'th Bob Haux, Fair Lanes’ representa-
ve in the area, and plans were set for
0 tournament. Nine lanes in Prince
corge’s, Montgomery, Baltimore, and
nne Arundcl Counties and the city of
altimore were reserved for the tourna-
ent held in August.
All printing was done by Fair Lanes,
c., in its print shop for a nominal fee.
fter the flyers and registration forms
(1 been printed, they were distributed
Fair Lanes to each of the centers be-

g used; the area coordinators then

REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

tributed them to each center. It was
also responsible for picking up any
trophies not presented at the tourna-
ment.

Tournament coordinators were ap-
pointed in each of the counties to pre-
pare newspaper publicity, secure scor-
ers, runners, and handle the presenta-
tion of awards. They also, working
through their respective departments,
distributed registration blanks and iii-
ers announcing the tournament to all
local teen clubs, youth centers, summer
playgrounds, and organized baseball
associations. Participation was limited
to those engaged in sanctioned recrea-
tion programs.

Anyone wishing to participate in the
tournament filled out the registration
forms, enclosed one dollar, and return-
ed the form to his recreation leader. The
leader then returned all forms to his
area coordinator several days prior to
the tournament. The contestants par-
ticipated in minimum groups of six.
Each group had to be accompanied by
a recreation leader or appointed recrea-
tion volunteer. Trophies were awarded
to the boy or girl in each group that
beat his or her lcader and to the boy
and girl participant and male and fe-

male leader with the highest set at the

end of the day at each bowling center.

After the tournament, when all reg-
istration forms and money for the same

 

A park department crew at the Animal

had been mailed to the state chairman,
the results were tabulated. Nearly eight
hundred boys, girls, and senior citizens
competed against their leaders in the
tournament. The only expenses incurred
were those for trophies and publicity.
The society netted $500.00 for its

scholarship fund.

0 Some readers may feel that there is a
conflict of interest in charging a fee for
an activity when the fee is to be used
for a professional society program.
What is your reaction?—Ed.

Used Cars Parts Lot

URING a swap-shop session at the
Sports and Recreation Manage-
ment Workshop sponsored by the US.
Air Force in Wiesbaden, Germany, last
spring, a used-car project was described
by Joseph Brookshire, recreation direc-
tor in Spangdahlem, Germany. The pro-
gram is designed to make car parts
available at a minimum cost to base
personnel for self-help projects. Eco-
nomically unrepairable, unsalable, and
wrecked cars are accepted by Personnel
Services as gifts. Donor signs registra-
tion certificate, which is witnessed by
an oilicer, over to CBWF. Such cars are
dismantled, parts tagged and stocked
for future sales. This is established as an
NAF activity and administered through
the auto hobby shop. Mr. Brookshire
warns that a well-protected area is es-
sential. Do not put it near other base
activities because it creates an unsightly
area. Allow no “running” cars on the
lot, for someone may dismantle them by
mistake. Have firm prices: 33-84- less
than comparable parts in the economy.
Because of low sales prices, very little
profit is realized. However, if part-
time help is paid and a good service
provided, the program is considered
successful. Left-over scrap is sold to
local junk dealers for metal value.

It’s Your Move

Playground in Sunset Park, Manhattan,
Kansas, installs a horse donated by the
Rotary Club. The area is furnished with

all sorts of play equipment in the form
of animals dOnated by service clubs and

fraternal organizations in the city.

cked up and distributed the materials
rough their respective departments.
rophies were ordered from one dealer
' the state, and Fair Lanes again dis-

Aae YOU FORGETTING your local
chess players in your program-
ing? “We were,” says Cary Woodring,
director of the Park and Recreation De-

  
 
 
 
 

OVEMBER, 1965 437

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 

partrnent in leanlath Falls, Oregon. Vestpocket Playgrounds council for a nominal $1 a year, to ‘
"until 1902 “hen a tournament spon- ANEW VARIATION of what used to be operated by the council. ,
sored bv r ur department and two local called the playlot is being devel- A vestpocket playground already
fn n round forty-eight participants oped in congested areas of New York action through the efforts of a ch
.ager and ready to go. Annually, since City. Known as “vestpocket” play- and funds from private donors s 
1962, we have sponsored a city tourna- grounds, they are city-owned lots or lots an interesting variation from the u
ment and, in addition, on November 7- owned by churches or other social agen- playlot. The new concept is an o
8, 1964, cosponsored an invitational cies. In the case of the former, plans space for neighborhood enjoy l
United States Chess Federation sanc- have been made for them to be cleared Mothers and small children use it in '
tioned event with thirty-seven partici- of rubbish and debris by the sanitation mornings. All ages come and go in
pants coming from as far away as 350 department, paved by the highway de- afternoons, finding it a pleasant l
miles. Here is another special-interest partment, and financed by the real es- to chat with friends, or to play si 1
group we are sure that is often over- tate department. They will then be “sidewalk” games. In the evening I
looked.” turned over to the local coordinating agers come to dance to music bro l
in by a mobile unit, and the neigh l
_ I,  . _ .  , i  7 .  ,.   I  .   _ ~  _ hood comes to enjoy the fun. I
 .t .7 i  J    a g. p t I. l i 9’ ~ 4   trees, flowers in windowboxes,
'T   if I I    I t I  S   fresh paint help to make the little
  _. _ x H   I  pocket playgroundareal neighbor
 “ ' .~  I t i 7 ' I  "   "  i asset. Neighborhood pride seems t
responsible for keeping it free of If
and for the behavior of the users.
Such “neighborhood patios” do
take the place of adequate parks
playgrounds. They can provide no 5
for sports, privacy for picnics, no
ture trails, no swimming. They do
vide colorful oases in congested .
for informal neighborhood use an
laxation, and they do encourage n
borhood action in assuring resp
bility for operation and maintena

Notes 011 the Cuff

’ 0 Sections of five Los Angeles r
for immediate delivery   beaches have been set aside as sur

. _  areas for the exclusive use of the gr
Call Game-Time collect: Area Code ; .4  ing wave-riding set by the Los Ang
517 542-2345. Ask Bob Wormser :4."- City Recreation and Parks Departm

\

 about Game-Time’s FREE photo 

v This will protect swimmers at
la ya u t pl ayg ro u n d pla n n i n g p  beaches from the dangers of flying s
'1' service.   boards and ease the problems of su

,

'a“

.W""""""_ Mwva-M - . ‘ v t
v k ,. w. .. . A _. V
“I 1.1. ~ A v
V ' t . “mam-L. ,_

:- iii-1: _" “ ".-'_ 
4.
1:.

1 .

     " " “  T's—ii A. - vision in crowded waters. At the s
-   " i if ' time, it will meet the needs of devo

I I   i of the popular water sport by cente
this activity on beaches with good \
characteristics.

3'1

¥
' 3
. \ -
mm .37 .‘R'km mlmmwwruw

° Little girls in North Baltimore pr
discarded rubber heels from m
shoes for hopscotch markers. One 5
repair man in the area found hi
spending considerable time pul
tacks from worn heels and han
them out to appealing little girls.

0 Hlmalayan snow partrldge eggs f),
been successfully hatched for the
time under artificial conditions at
University of California in Davis.

 

I ..
616 Jonesville Road, litchfield, Michigan

sussmIARY or SIMPSON MANUFAQQBINQEQ, ,

l3” When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. BECK“

* RECREATION

A man-of—war is actually a sea-going recreation district

nald C. Hullberg, LTJG, USNR

’ NAVY WARSHII’ at sea for weeks at a time helping pre-
 serve the peace of the nation can hardly be described

l
i as an Ideal settmg for a recreation program. The

se quarters, requirements for a state of instant readiness,
el decks, and the all-important mission of the ship dictate
‘: life at sea often be quite different from that on shore.
ll, long separations from family and familiar surround-
s, inability to move about freely, and periods of off-duty
urs with little to do result in a need for a recreation pro-
m.
ne example of a program afloat is that planned and con-
‘ted by the oflicers and men of the attack aircraft USS
ty Hawk. This eighty-two thousand-ton vessel has a crew
approximately four thousand when fully manned. Her
ht deck is approximately four acres in area and her
igar deck about two acres. The ship is a completely
tipped airfield capable of handiing the most advanced

. HALLBERC served as a communications officer aboard

- USS Kitty Hawk before his present duty station, the

p Naval Communications Unit in London. He received
8.5. in Recreation from Indiana University in I 962.

VEMBER, 1965

jets as she steams on the Pacific from the coast of California
to the shores of Viet Nam.

Recreation activities on Kitty Hawk, the world’s largest
conventionally powered warship, are supervi-ed by the
ship’s Special Services Ofiice. One officer and a staff of nine
enlisted men organize and conduct the various athletic, so-
cial, craft, and special activities that make up Kitty Hawk’s
recreation program. The Special Services officer and his
staff work full time on recreation programing except when
involved on watches or other ship evolutions such as battle
drills.

Other departments on the ship also contribute to the rec-
reation program. The engineering department supplies
movie projector operators specially trained in the electrical
hazards of a steel ship, a problem not encountered in more
conventional theaters. The ship’s Public Information Office
distributes information concerning recreation opportuni-
ties for the crew in its “Port of Call” booklets printed for
each new port the ship enters. This oflice also organizes and
prints the ship’s biweekly paper, the Kitty Hazvkeye, which.
as part of its news concerning the ship, describes leisure-
time activities available to crew members.

With few exceptions, the cost of the recreation activities

(139

 

Movies are often exchanged with ships operating
with the Kitty Hawk. Here, a
high-line transfer crew prepares to send

a package to a ship alongside the
world’s largest conventionally powered carrier.

 5-2116. .  H v ' §
KTTY-TV, Kitty Hawk’s closed-circuit TV station,

ofers live programs utilizing
the talents of crew members as well as

lms distributed b the Nav . . . .
ghe ship also has rain amateuyr radio station for a stun against the [Marine (lemcfl'ment'
 ' . ' ' ' The ship offers many varsity athletic prOgrams.

h :4 g : _..,4 nc‘ n. -- p

A Captain’s Cup volleyball game
is conducted on the hangar deck. Here,
the ship’s radio gang sets up

Though social recreation is somewhat limited,
the crew often entertains orphans

aml schoolchildren at parties on board

as is shown here at a party

for children in Japan when the ship put in there.

440

 

m hoard Navy vessels is defrayed front profits on the sale
)f goods in the ship’s stores and vending machines. The
tores include three soda fountains. three sundries stores.
l nd a clothing store. During an average quarter while the

hip is deployed in the Orient, these stores turn over about

wenty-live thousand dollars to the ship’s recreation fund.
' portion of this money goes directly into the various ship’s
ivision and squadron funds for parties. picnics. other social
vents, and special recreation items desired by these groups.
‘ nother part of the ship’s stores receipts is used to purchase

uipnient such as small games and TV receivers to be dis-

l

l ibuted to each division and squadron for use in their living
reas. Cost of maintenance of this equipment is obtained
om the “rec fund” as are items like the two minibuses
hich Special Services uses for everything from transport-

1
4

g fishing parties to moving the ship’s hand. Another ex-

. I
\\

  
     
  

KlIN/tHM is the ship’s amateur radio station.
e, a “ham” makes contact with a stateside ham.
ring long periods at sea, the ship’s hams

' able to send messages to folks back home
their fellow crew members.

Dependents’ Day cruises are
an opportunity for family
get-togethers on board ship
for a day at sea. This

Ieroup is going away

for a (lay on the Pacific.

penditure provides for reduced price tickeLs to local theaters,
sporting events, and other recreation activities.

Two advisory groups function on the [um flank to guidc
the use of the rm reation fund and the [xérsounm effort in«
vohed in planning and conducting “Treation attuities
These are the Recreation Committee and the lier'reatm:
(iouncil. The l‘inlhted lictreation (..mnnittee is made up.
of enlisted men from each of the ship's divisions and squad
rons. Meetings are held monthly. to r ollett ideas and sug
gestions from the crew and to pass on information concern
ing schedules. plan's. and opportunities from the Special
Services Office. The Recreation Council is a group of senior
officers uho advise the Special Scrtices olheer on poliex
matters.

~\lthongh a man-ol-war has certain limitations in the area

 

Outside entertainment groups. such as

the. Bremerton, W'ashington, Symphony.

present programs aboard.

Other entertainers hare included ['50 shows,

college rariety shows, aml a Japanese Dixieland hand.

The. ship is equipped with

a fire thousand-book library
which oHers hours of
leisure-time actirity. News-
papers and magazines are.
distributed when arailahle.

 

=14}

of recreation programing, a sea-going recreation district
has a few advantages over more conventional recreation or-
ganizations. Tours, which may be limited to the local state
park in the hometown recreation program, haVe on Kitty
Hawk included trips to Diamond Head and the Punchbowl
National Cemetery in Hawaii, the resort of Baguio in the
Philippines, the floating restaurants of Aberdeen in Hong
Kong, and the shrines and temples of Japan.

Kitty Hawk’s roving has been used to advantage for other
recreation pursuits. Ski trips to Nikko in Japan and the
Cascade Mountains near Seattle have been offered to the
winter sports enthusiasts on board. Warm-weather sailors
have had the opportunity to surf at Waikiki, skin dive off
Okinawa, and sun bathe on Southern California beaches.

Club activity is encouraged on the Kitty Hawk. The ship’s
Rod and Gun Club has periodic skeet shoots at sea from the
flight deck during off-duty hours. The Kitty Hawk Divers,
the ship’s skin-diving club, a toastmaster’s club, and a judo
club have added to the varied program offered on board. In
addition the Kitty Hawk has its own band.

DURING BREAKS in ship’s work or on Sunday “holiday

routines” a variety of recreation activities are usually
in progre”s, especially when at sea. The most actively parti-
cipated in is the ship’s Captain’s Cup competition. This
competition pits the various units of the ship against each
other in a number of activities, from football to chess, to
determine the most outstanding unit on the ship overall.
This latter group is awarded the Captain’s Cup traveling
trophy which is held by the winning unit until the following
round of competition is completed.

Varsity athletics are another aspect of Kitty H awk’s recre-
ation offering. Teams representing the ship in bowling, flag
football, golf, rifle and pistol shooting, basketball and soft-
ball compete wherever they can find suitable opponents,
whether it be in Kobe, Japan, or Seattle, Washington. Teams
are outhtted and equipped by Special Services.

More sedentary activities for men of Kitty Hawk include
nightly movies on the hangar deck, in the squadron ready
rooms, and the officers’ wardrooms. During long at-sea
periods hlms are swapped with other ships operating with
Kitty Hawk by helicopter or by highline transfer, a method
of exchanging material at sea between ships. Watching pro-
grams produced by the ship’s closed circuit television sta-
tion, KTTY-TV, is another quiet activity for leisure hours.

For those interested in crafts, Kitty Hawk has a well

equipped hobby shop. Facilities for work with models,
ceramics, leather work, wood work, and many other craft
activities are available.

I<ITTY HAWKERS interested in electronics can participate

in the ship’s amateur radio station, K7KBN/MM, a
licensed ham station. Kitty Hawk hams have found them-
selves very p0pular after long periods at sea when they are
able to contact the folks back home for other crew members
on the radio through a stateside ham.

A boxing ring is another center of activity on the ship.
The ring is assembled periodically on the hangar deck for

442

  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 

boxing “smokers” which generally draw enthusiastic fan
cheer their favorites. “Smoker” as used here is a misno
as smoking is not permitted on the hangar deck due to
danger of fire. For those who desire a more comfort
view of the fights, KTTY-TV televises the bout on the sh
closed circuit system. To keep the men in trim for the box
matches and to generally stay in shape, a gym has been
up by the Special Services Office in a small compart .
below the main deck.

A “gear locker” is still another offering of the S -
Services Office. Golf clubs, tennis rackets, balls, bats, glo
and nets are a few of the items available for the crew’s
on a personal checkout basis. This equipment gets its gr
est use in port when facilities such as ballfields are availa
but games of catch with this equipment can be foun
almost any time on the hangar deck.

Social recreation is somewhat limited for the crew of
Kitty Hawk, but parties for the individual units are enc
aged for which the ship provides food and transportat
When the ship is in the states, family programs include ~
activities as the children’s Christmas party, held last se
on the hangar deck, and dependents’ day cruises, du
which famiiies are loaded aboard and taken to sea for a
Overseas, children from orphanages and schools are I
welcomed aboard at parties given for them by the cret

Both professional and amateur entertainment is so
and during the past four years since Kitty Hawk’s co
sioning a variety of programs have been presented on b
During the Christmas season of 1962, Bob Hope’s show
held on the flight deck while the ship was in Subic
Philippines. Other entertainers have included a Jap
Dixieland band, several college variety shows, USO s

the Bremerton, Washington, Symphony, and many ot i
(

TIE NECESSITY for a comprehensive recreation pro L
for men in the military at sea is as obvious as
great. Loneliness, restlessness, and boredom have ad
effects on a ship’s crew after long periods away from
when the men on a ship like Kitty Hawk are enclosed
steel box that can be completely encircled in a ten-
walk. Kitty Hawk’s last deployment to the Orient was
months long with one thirty-five-day period off Viet
beyond the sight of land.

This situation calls for ingenuity in order to pr
several thousand men worthwhile activity while they
out the mission of the ship. Kitty Hawk is typical 0
Navy’s recreation efforts. Other men-of-war in the U.S
have similar problems and programs. The lack of p
sional leadership, the necessity to plan activities a

ship’s movements and evolutions, and the nature of the

l

ities are problems inherent in a warship environment
have not been entirely solved.

As in the case of the USS Kitty Hawk, however, the
certain advantages of being a transient recreation di
In what other situation could the participants be invol R
touch football games in California this week, surfi “T,
Waikiki next week, playing volleyball in the South ‘ .
Sea the next, and still be exempt from the draft? # l

RECR

+ EADY, SET...SK|!

re-slri conditioning program increases participation and safety

I  Brink

. INS-SKI conditioning is too often overlooked by the rec-
reation skier. Each winter, hundreds of thousands
of people journey to the snow country to participate

the highly strenuous sport. The average skier spends a
nsiderable sum on skis, boots, and clothes, but often-
nes gives no thought to physical preparation. Physical
ertion in a high altitude can quickly produce muscular
tigue for a person not prepared adequately beforehand.
. any skier will testify, the sport is not passive. Regardless
the extent of participation, some degree of conditioning
necessary.

Better conditioning will not only permit the skier to do
re skiing in a day, it will also minimize chances of injury.
ny skiers shortchange themselves by neglecting physical
nditioning. In calculating costs of equipment, gasoline,
(l, and lift tickets, the skier who is exhausted after two
three hours of skiing is far from getting his money’s
rth. Furthermore, the tired skier is more liable to acci-
ts and possible injury. As skiing is an activity that at-
cts many desk workers who have little opportunity to
parc themselves through their work, programs of planned
'sical conditioning offered by a municipal agency can
an outstanding public service.

' ith these thoughts in mind, the Recreation Division of
I Seattle Park Department initiated a six-week pre-ski
ditioning program for adults during the fall of 1964.
- activity was offered to the participants free of charge.
thermore, there was no cost to the department, except in
e, as staff personnel, under direction of Watson B.
ike” Hovis, assistant recreation director in charge of
etics, organized and conducted the sessions with the
g of enthusiastic volunteers.

rrangements were made with the Pacific Northwest Ski
ructor’s Association and the National Ski Patrol to
'ide instructors for lectures. \Vell-known personalities,
1 as famed mountain climber Jim Whittaker, took time
rom busy schedules to explain the importance of good
ieal conditioning for the average skier. Ski shops in the

   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
    
  
   
    
 

1
provided available films and served as a communica-
outlet in announcing the classes. Every aspect of ski-
was presented to the group by “experts.” Managers of
reas sent films and “pitchmcn” to advertise their facili-
As there was so much to cover, each session was (li-

u into sections, films, lectures, and conditioning. The
ical-fitness portion was based on a series of exercises

loped by Dr. Thomas Curcton, famed University of
is physical educator.

BRINK is public-information Ogicer [or the Recreation
‘ion, Seattle Park Department.

.MBER. 1965

 

q DRY-LAM) ski school held the day after Christmas capped
off the course. The Ski Instructor’s Association pro-
vided personnel to inspect and adjust newly acquired equip-

ment, as well as teach basic fundamentals, such as the trav-
erse position, kick turns, and how to get up from falls. The
school achieved its objective of saving ski instructors and
ski-school members many headaches and wasted hours. A
common problem encountered at the first meeting of ski
classes is poor fitting equipment which entails hunting for
screws. straps, or tools for repairs and losing valuable ski
time. Anyone who has attempted temporary repairs on a
noncooperative set of bindings without tools at fifteen above
Fahrenheit will readily agree that a dry-land school stressing
maintenance is a fine idea.

Public response to “Pro-Ski ’65” was overwhelming. The
publicity received on the program via radio, TV, daily and
community newspapers resulted in 175 persons attending
the first class. Each class over the six-week period averaged
[.25 persons. The professional Ski Teachers Association
lauded the course as a great new idea in ski orientation.

For the coming ski season an expanded program is
planned. Pre-ski classes will be ofTered at four recreation
centers at different points in the city. In addition to the
Ski Instructor’s Association’s assistance. the Northwest Ski
Association has also offered assistance in the form of per-
sonnel to teach classes. Ski shops will be asked to provide
displays of equipment and offer ideas to help the skier choose.
what he should buy. The dry-lam] school will also be re-
peated. It is considered a must for any type of ski-orienta-
tion program. The potential for such a course is only lim-
ited by the imagination of the planners. 

4x13

 

The jump tower

was one of the attractions
that thrilled visitors

at Fort Wainwright’s
annual July Carnival

Diagram for Bombs Away

 

Military bases zero in on special events with precise ta

 

BIG TOP IN

 

OW that the Big Top is practically
N extinct, most communities com-
pensate for this childhood extravaganza
by planning their own circus or carni-
val. In Alaska, the Fort Wainwright
Dependent Activities Council has an
open-house fund-raising carnival year-
ly on the Third and Fourth of July
which captivates old and the young in
the Fairbanks area. Hangar #1 is the
“Big Top” and the animals are from the
forest and streams of our last frontier.

For the past five years, Fort Wain-
wright has realized about $18,000 an-
nually from this two-day open house.
Funds are utilized exclusively to sup-
port the multiplying youth programs,
such as scouts, campfire girls, junior
baseball, softball, bowling leagues, ski-

ing, charm school, rifle team, peewee
hockey, teen club, and a twelve-week

summer schedule of tours, swimming,
archery, roller skating, playground ac-
tivities, and crafts projects. The youth

 
 
   

 

MAGNET
.-

(‘H \1
._ .-..- PLANE RELEASE.

  
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
  
  
  
  

THE HANGAR

director’s salary at Fort Wainwr
not part of this fund.
Primary action for this prod
aliair is promoted in March and
tions published in a Yukon C0
Army Circular, which prescrib
cies and procedures and deline
sponsibilities for the open hous
participants are “all Army a
Force organizations and units st
at Fort Wainwright and all or
tions and activities at Fort Wai
established for the benefit and .
of military, civilians, and de
personnel.” The objective of th
house is “to promote the co
good public relations between th
lace of the Fairbanks area
armed forces and to provide a
of raising funds for the support
dependent activities. The use of
ment equipment is authorized
event providing that authorize
tors and/or supervisors of suc

  

PLANE

   

as
\

BOMB

 

Swwcu “ 5K
\

BOMB RELEASE \

SWI‘I‘CH
\
JTARGET

 

 

R

r______—_

aent are present during its use. Any
alerials may be used which can be re-
rned in basically an unchanged con-
tion to the stock fr0m which they were
awn.” Fund-raising methods include:
a) concessions selling food, malt bev-
ages and soft drinks, (b) concessions
turing games of skill, amusement
es, side shows, and similar activities,
d (c) ticket sales for a new car and
er lesser prizes.” The circular clearly
es the duties and responsibilities of
1 of the committees mentioned be-
v and requests detailed after-action
)orts from same.
he president of the Dependent Ac-
ities Council is chairman of this pro-
m. The committees selected to assist
1 in this gargantuan affair include
nce (comptroller office), publicity
ormation oflice), legal (judge ad-
ate office), traffic and wildlife con-
ation (provost marshal office), fa-

FIELD DAY is usually a program of
a variety of events that gives every-
an opportunity to participate. It is
ucted in some form or another in
arts of the country, but none has
bed the magnitude of success as
e conducted at Lowry Air Force
, Colorado. Even though Lowry
blessed with exceptional athletic
recreation facilities, thanks to its
e and dedicated Personnel Services
sion and cooIJerative command per-
el which gave every Opportunity
ts military personnel to participate
ir respective programs on their
re and/or off-duty time for enter-
1ent and relaxation, it needed a
ram of fun on a competitive basis
t even the most ardent nonpartici-
could be a participant even though
d nothing more than go through
otions.

us, the field day was born, on June
56 with ten events. This program
all those that followed included
. of fun, skill, novelty, strength,
knowledge, and nonsense, but
11 which required participants enter
i n extensive period of training in

  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
 

1

l

- - dun—nun.

"an?

cilities (post engineers), communica-
tions (signal oflice), entertainment
(special services), first-aid (hospital).

The games, rides, food concessions,
decorations, police-and-security, pur-
chasing, midway-sales, and ticket-re-
demption committees are composed of
personnel from various organizations
and units on post. These committee
members are parents of children who
participate in the Dependent Activities
Program on post or they are volunteer
civilian, single and/or unaccompanied
military personnel.

The Arctic Test Center provides the
council with a “Big Top” (Hangar
#1). The floor space, 324’-by-230',
houses forty-three booths. The area out-
side of this “Big TOp” is also utilized
for various amusement rides. The usual
games, such as fishpond, cork shoot,
dart throw, train-pony-fire truck ride,
kiddie cars, and the standard activities

HAVE A FIELD DAY

preparation. The program was started
small to assure a good beginning and
test its acceptance by the military. Field
Day events increased each year until
the 1959 program had 244- events. A
study was made of the numerous events
to reduce the program to those with the
greatest participation and for more ef-
ficient control. The end results were 106
events, of which 74 were selected for
one field day each year from 1959 to
1962.

The span of its conduct after its be-
ginning extended over a period of a
week with a third of the events conduct-
ed in the respective athletic and recrea-
tion facilities and the remaining two-
thirds on the recreation field and adja-
cent parking lot on a Saturday, 9 to
11 AM. The 1959-1962 programs each
had four thousand to five thousand par-
ticipants. Each field day required a
minimum of two hundred officials of
which the most were selected from the
military personnel of the base and
others were furnished by the city of
Denver Recreation Department, YMCA,
Denver University, and other organiza-
tions where specific professional knowl-

compose these booths inside and out-
side the hangar. In order to keep the
thousands of military and civilians
amused for twelve hours each day
(there were 5,436 unregistered vehicles
on post during this two-day event in
1964), the food must tickle the taste
buds. Watermelon, fried chicken, ham-
burgers, barbecued beef, snow cones,
cotton candy, candy apples, popcorn,
and ice cream are just a few of the
goodies sold on the midway to entice
carnival strollers.

The activities which thrill visitors
most are the fish and wildlife booth,
bombs away (see diagram), crane ride,
and the jump tower. Add these ideas
to your present program, pray for sun-
shine, and you will cement public rela-
tions and have plenty of money to
finance a youth program in your com-
munity. — ALICE Rom, Director of
Youth Activities, Fort Wainwright.

edge was necessary. Fourteen base sec-
tions assisted in its conduct whenever
and wherever its services were needed.
At no time did a single individual par-
ticipant or official complain that the
events were not properly conducted or
the officiating was a tiresome duty. The
entire affair was enjoyed by everyone.

The planning started two to three
months prior to its conduct. A commit-

tee was organized, composed of repre-
sentatives of support agencies, and re-

spective competing organizations, and
responsibilities established with the
Personnel Services Division assuming
full leadership.

The base newspaper announced the
overall dates followed by the schedule
of events and other information grow-
ing stronger each publication to a cli-
max prior to actual start. In addition,
a general information pamphlet was
published and distributed to all organi-
zation project officers, announcing pro-
gram, method of entry, schedule of
events, rules of competition, scoring
system, awards, and other pertinent in-
formation. There was also a map show-

AA:

ing the location Jf each event, both in
facilities 9'”. cut-of—door area.
'F' JiliCials were assigned events
.mout knowledge of qualifications, as
ume was not always available to inter-
view each to make determinations. A

schedule of briefings of officials by
events was conducted so each knew
the rules of his activity and his respon-
sibilities thereto. Good officiating is a
major factor to the success of the field
day. The athletic section was assigned
the responsibility of equipment, its
safety and placement.

The events were grouped into eigh-
teen categories that included such events
as Dizzy Izzy and sack relay races,
flight and monkey drills, pig calling
and egg throwing, volleyball and Chin-
ese Ping-pong, standing broad jump
and hundred-yard walking race, clock
golf and basketball shoot, skits and spe-
cialty acts, eight-ball pool and checkers,
round and square dancing, spelling bee
and military quiz, walking hand bal-
ance and tumbling stunts, drawing and
photography, small and large chorus
singing, and limbo. Several events were
created that were social and education-
al in nature and rules established for
their conduct.

Only a third of the out-of—door pro-
gram was conducted at one time fol—
lowed by another third and a final third.
This keeps an even distribution of
events in all categories and participant
and spectator interest at a high level. It
is important and essential that the
events be kept moving as rapidly as pos-
sible without hurry to avoid a drag and
eventual lack of interest.

An entry blank was used to determine
number of groups and teams in group
and team activities to set up brackets
and get an idea of the approximate
number of entries in all other events.
There was no restriction on the number
of events individuals may enter as long
as he participated at its start.

Points were awarded each event ac-
cording to the number of participants,
degree of difficulty, and length of time
required in preparation and competi-
tion. Points ranged from 5, 3, 2 and
l to 20, 15, 10 and 5.

Awards included a two-and-a-half—
foot-high trophy called the Grand
Champion All Events Trophy present-
ed to the organization that won three

146

field days. Permanent possession tro-
phies were also presented to the organ-
izations that placed first, second, and
third place. Appropriate awards were
also presented to the Winners of each
event. Other awards were the Esprit
de Corps Trophy which was presented
to the organization that had the greatest
participation in the entire program, and
an Oscar which was presented to the
commander of the organization on the
same basis. Community service organ-
izations also gave out awards for Spe-
cific events. ,

The final day or out-of—door program
was the climax of the field day. Each
area of events was designated by mark-
ers in accordance to the map and appro-
priate equipment installed therein. This
was accomplished a day or two preced-
ing to avoid any rush the morning of
the program. If there is a possibility of
inclement weather, then it will be ne-
cessary to do this job early the morning
of the program or postpone the pro-
gram until the following Saturday or
appr0priate day.

Communications installed a PA sys-
tem with the mike on a platform loca-
tion at the center edge of the field day
area. At this location the project offi-
cer supervised and directed the conduct
of the field day, and the results of events
were tabulated and recorded.

An ambulance with a doctor and two
technicians were stationed nearby for
any possible emergencies. This is al-
ways advisable even though the possi-
bilities of injuries are near impossible.
The base exchange placed two mobile
canteen units serving coffee, sand-
wiches, and soft drinks.

The officials reported at 8 AM the day

s;
g
,1
' i

 

 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

of the program for any last-minute --
structions and to procure their so
cards and equipment necessary for
conduct of their respective events.
program started promptly at 9 AM
an opening ceremony. A color g
USAF band, and guidon bearer
competing organizations marched
the distance of the field day area
ing the platform, and halted, at \
time the project officer gave a bri
troductory speech. Upon anno
ment, the band played the Nation
them, and when completed marche
of the field day area. Immediately
after, the project officer gave th
nal to start and the program was
way.

Officials reported results of resp
events, immediately when com
by runner to the field day headqu
where they were recorded and pos
a large master chart. This Operat
important, and there should be a
two men adding and totaling figu
that at the end of the field day t
tors are known and all points total
each organization.

Unusual and special acts were
sented to base military personne
civilian personnel of Denver in .
cific area throughout the pro
Each performance was given a
limit so that the last would end p
11 AM. This activity does not d
from the field day events, esp
where there is a large group of
tators.

The program usually ended at
as scheduled. The victorious or
tions and event winners along
many spectators assembled in fr
the headquarters platform for th
entation of the awards. The bas
mander or his representative m
presentations as the project ofli
nounced the event and organ
winners. After the presentatio
monies were completed, a loud
sounded that could be heard for
blocks away.

9

The planning, organization,
istration, and conduct of the fi
requires time and work, but the
derived therefrom are gratifyin
concerned. A field day will 53
“stuffed-shirtitis” and ‘
GERALD

from
cholia.” — MAJOR
USA F, Retired.

REC

FAMILY RECREATION SCORESHEET

Many recreation departments reproduce it will be helpful in promoting better family
material from RECREATION Magazine to dis- relationships through recreation. Any local
‘ tribute to staff members or to John. and Jane agency is free to reproduce for local distribu-
'  Public and their offspring. Such material tion. (Please credit RECREATION Magazine!)
‘ has included such items as rules and remind- The best gift you can bequeath to your chil-
ers for a safe Hallowe’en and Christmas. We dren is not money, or land, or insurance, but
now offer, here, a checklist for families to use a happy childhood. Be honest? Is your house
in rating their recreation. The following was a home? Is it fun to belong to your family?
prepared by the National Recreation Associa- Does your family enjoy living? How do you
tion Program. Department with the hope that rate, recreationally speaking?

DAY-BY-DAY NEEDS

I. Some Form of Social Plus Minus VI. Storytelling and Reading Plus Minus

Recreation D D Did you read anything besides the news- D D

Did you play any games with your children? paper? (That’s important, too!) And poetry?

Did you “visit” with friends or neighbors? Did you tell or read a story to the children
Go on a picnic? Co to a party, a dance, or a at bedtime? Discuss a book with your family?
club? (Sitting in the movies or in front of Visit the public library? Buy a book?
TV doesn't count.) Do you make a big point v". Dra’na D D
to ce e rate birthdays, anniversaries, and
holidays? Did you go to the theater? Do you belong to
a drama group? Did you make a costume?

H. Some Form of Physical D D Build a' set? Make a puppet stage for the

Recrealion children? Tell the family about plays you

have seen? Read a play, with everyone taking
a part? Put on a home talent show? Have a
dress-up box for the children to use?

Did you play (not just watch) any active
game? Horseshoes? Tennis? Bowling? Golf?
Softball? Did you go walking or hiking,

bicyc‘ing or swimming? Did you romp with VIII, Dance D D
the children? Take them to the park or play- Did you attend a square dance club-p Know
ground? .

any South American dances? Recognize the
In. A” latest teenage craze? Encourage the young-
sters to enjoy dance rhythms? Watch ballet?

Did you do any painting "1 0113 01' waif" Modern dance? Take your wife dancing?

color or pastels? Any ceramics? Wood carv-

ing? Visit any museum? Attend an art ex- IX. Hobbies D D

C I 9 I I . .
hibit. Read anything about art and artists? Dld you encourage and take part m any

family hobbies? Take family movies? Have 3

IV. I I
Iandcrafls D D family scrapbook? Allow family pets? Col-

Did. Y0." work 0" anything With Your handS? lect stamps, coins or other items? Provide
Wh‘ttlmg? WOOdwork? Leatherwork? W63“ hobby space for the children? Use reference

ing?  YOU (.10 any needlework  knit- bOOk to encourage more study?
ting, embroidery? lfook a rug? Make an

afghan? Frame a picture? Build a model ‘\' Nature and sc'e’wc D D

plane? Repair a toy? Did you take time to really see and feel the

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

_ sun? Really look at the stars last night?
V' [Hume D D Notice birds and flowers? Visit a park or
Did you sing—with your family, friends, or other outdoor area? Work in a garden? (Win-
.hurch choir? (Singing in the bathtub dowboxes count.) Talk to the children about
ounts!) Did you play any instrument? wind, or rain, or weather, or the sea, ct
{eally listen to any good music? (Turning cetera? Collect and Find out about shells and
n the radio and then reading doesn‘t rocks? Plant a tree? Lie flat on your back
ount.) Do you have a record player—and witli the children and watch the clouds or
ise it? Did you go to a concert? the treetops? Co family camping?

I

[your score is minus, you’re missing a lot in life. if your score is plus, you’re building up a family
eserve of happiness.

man- 1065 447

 

BEWARE:
THE
SPOILERS

ARE ON THE

MARCH!

Jay Shivers, PhD.
THE INSIDIOUS pattern of waste, de-

struction, and pollution, devel-

oping everywhere across the
United States today is destroying the
natural resources with which this coun-
try was so abundantly blessed. By en-
croachment, denudation, desecration,
and unthinking utilization, the forces
of corporate enterprise, private individ-
ual gain, and even those agencies of
government entrusted with safeguard-
.ing the nation’s resources are subvert-
ing our natural endowments to ends
which are at best questionable and at
the very least alarming.

No longer are there sporadic raids
upon the public domain by industrial
concerns eager to turn a quick profit.
Now there is wholesale attack. There is
a nationwide picture that is clearly de-
fined which dramatically emphasizes
the continuous threat under which we
all live. Advantage is being taken of
an unenlightened and, too often, apa-
thetic public. The public can be aroused
to this stepped-up tempo of deteriora-
tion of our natural resources by en-

W—i 7?

UR. SHIVLRS is supervisor of Recrea-
tional Service Education at the U niver-
sity of Connecticut in, Storrs.

M8

trenched interests, but unless it is
awakened now it will be too late. The
spoilers are already gouging the land,

polluting the air and the waterways,’

stripping the land of timber, defacing
the rocky places, and forever destroy-
ing nature’s balance. From Big Sur on
the Pacific Coast to the Connecticut
River, a host of uncaring but influen-
tial individuals and agencies, from all
sectors of Society, are doing irrepar-
able harm to our natural heritage. A
continuous process of ruin-by-design is
decimating rivers, marshlands, parks,
geologic phenomena, forests, beaches,
ridges, and wilderness areas. The great
predator is loose in the land; his name
is man; and his gods are speed, profit,
and influence.

This assault against the remnants of
America’s natural resources presents a
bleak outlook. The insistent land-grab-
bing techniques of public agencies up-
on public forests and parks is appalling.
The terrible truth is that many of these
encroachments are necessary. The cause
they serve is important to the public
welfare. What cannot be justified is the
taking of park and other recreation
lands for many projecrts because of the
seeming economies which such en-

 

croachment involves. Replacement
of these areas—and eventually
must be replaced to meet the needs
growing population—will be r
times greater than would have be
original cost for condemning an
propriating land used for slum a
ings, light industrial plants, or 0th
veloped eyesores in the core of the
Parks located in the center of any .
munity cannot be replaced once
have been destroyed by access

. . )
ways, turnpikes, schools, hosplt
other public buildings. When th I
is gone, regardless of what is erec ‘
its place, there can never be :, ‘
spots, shaded lanes, or the origin
ing landscape. The ecology of th .l

'is forever unbalanced. Perhaps -

ecology has no place within the ‘
ons of the urban center, but, |
growing population and a spr ‘
megalopolitan area, a time is r
coming when all of man’s ingenui
have to be used to find natural
that remain untouched and unco
nated by industrial and urban '
Vast stretches of what is now . J
ered rural and even primitive r 
will be invaded by the offspring I

massive population explosion.

REC

'hat can recreation leaders do?
e are some basic methods for re-

ing the spoilers’ march:

Write to both state and national repre-
atives informing them of the dangers of
oachment, pollution, or destruction of

ation areas.

Write to specific departmental heads,
the Secretary of the Interior, when ques-
ble actions by agencies of his dcpart-
t are apparent.

Organize citizen—protest meetings. Have
ions made up with the strongest language
ible to show appropriate state and local
ials that infringment on recreation open
es is abhorrent to the body politic.

Under advisement by legal counsel, seek
nctions against agencies which are at-
ting to subvert park areas for other than
ation purposes.
Join forces with local conservation and
ning commissions or committees in order
'cp abreast of the areas which are threat-

   
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
 

I’ublish some sort of house organ as part

continuing policy of public relations
h deals with the entire problem of natural
rec maintenance and preservation.

pace does not permit a listing of all
outrages against our natural en-
nment that are occurring or pro-
; l. However, the following illustra-
s will prove that no section of the
itry, not even the most magnificent
ral spectacles, are being spared.

u : The California State Highway De-
nent has plans to straighten a road which

" EMBER, 1965

 

   
  
  

runs through a grove of giant redwood trees
along the California coast. If the road is per-
mitted, the savings in time to motorists will
be as much as twenty minutes for the trip.
The loss to the world will be incaleulable
since this species of tree does not grow any-
where else on the face of the earth. To save
twenty minutes, a state agency is willing to
destroy a national heritage that has evolved
from the Mesozoic era.

Item: Grand Canyon is threatened with
inundation as a result of a government agen-
cy's tampering. When Theodore Roosevelt
saw the Grand Canyon in 1903, he said,
“Leave it as it is. You cannot improve upon
it. The ages have been at work on it, and
man can only mar it.” Apparently the federal
government cannot leave nature’s handcraft
alone, for there are plans to construct two
dams on the Colorado River that will cause
irreparable damage to the canyon. The C0]-
orado River already has more dams on it
than there is water to fill their reservoirs; the
planned dams will, in fact, waste water.
Whatever hydro-electric power could be gen-
erated by these dams could be more ecnnomi-
cally and efiieiently produced by atomic
power. The construction of these dams will
effectively flood and destroy the lower canyon.

Item: The St. Croix River in MinneSOta
is threatened with thermal pollution if the
\"orthern States Power Company is permitted
to develop a conventional power plant with an
exhaust stack eight hundred feet high and a
coal pile half mile long to feed it. The proj-
ect has aroused national concern among eon-
sen'ationists. The St. Croix is the last clean
river serving the recreation needs of a major
metropolitan region in the Midwest. It is the

ADMINISTRATION

 

Some truths

about a continuous
process of
ruin-by-design

objective of the plant to discharge superheata
ed water back into the St. Croix, which would
raise the temperature of the river as much as
twenty degrees. Such an increase would ther-
mally pollute the river and effectively destroy
all fish life and ruin swimming. High-water
temperatures stimulate the growth of bacteria
and algae; these, in turn, produce a nauseat-
ing stench. The entire water resource would

be useless for any recreation activity. Beyond
that there is cause for alarm about air pollu-

tion. In a newspaper interview, the president

of Northern States Power voiced an attitude
reminiscent of Commodore Vanderbilt’s

famed remark, “The public be damnch
When asked why his company did not um an
alternate site, such as one on the already pol-
lutcd nearby Mississippi River, this man rc-
plied: “Why should we?" This is typical of
the profit-minded industrialist who can see
no farther than the next dollar. The St. Croix
belongs to all of the people of the United
States. We all have. a vested interest in its
historit- and esthetie value. No industry has
the right to destroy natural beauty if there
are easily accessible alternatives, as there are
in this instance

Item: The highlands of the Hudson River
Valley are under immediate threat by the
development of a gigantic hydro-electric pow-
er plant hy the Consolidated Edison Company
of \‘cw York. Recently. an investigator of the
Federal Power Commission approved of the
plans submitted by Con Rd to construct a
huge power plant in the Hudson Highlands.
which would deface the entire northern face of
Storm King Mountain. The plant will he blast-
cd out of the living rock and a reservoir will
be constructed on the top. The net result of
this FPC decision. based solely upon economic
considerations, is to forever destroy one of the

449

most scenic places of the Hudson River Valley.
Thousands of people annually visit this area
to enjoy the .11 creation features available.
Once again. economic motives have been al-
low (‘ ’o override esthetic and recreation val-
us. not only of the present population but Of
untold populations to come.

There are dozens Of other illustra-
tions tO stress the clear and present dan-
ger which exists for the natural and rec-
reation places so necessary to the well-
being Of all Of the people. Professionals
cannot stand idly by while our most

precious natural wonders are being
gobbled by insensate agencies Of vari-
ous types. Wilderne~s bills and conser-
vation acts are only one means to
prevent encroachment, deterioration,
spoilation, and abolishment Of the nat-
ural sites to which man may repair
when he feels thwarted by the constant
pressures Of urban society. Recreation
leaders have the obligation Of obtaining
public interest and support tO frustrate

———T

those corporate and government agrL
cies which attempt tO steal the natio.
birthright. America is not so poor til
it must sacrifice its spectacular natur
phenomena for industrial progress a.
capital gain—nor so rich in unique OH-
door resources that it can afford to (i
so. Recreation leaders must help pi
serve those land and water areas til
are still unsullied. The time for p!

ventive action is now! if:

 

__ i
COLLEGES NOW TEACH RECREATION i

Robert Peterson

UITE A FEW YEARS ago when I was
Q teaching at the University Of Illi-
nois a terrible ruckus arose when some-
one recommended creation Of a pro-
fessorship in recreation. The idea was
hooted by taxpayers and denounced by
serious educators who called it the final
straw in scholarship. But the university
boldly created in 1951 not only one Of
the nation’s finest professorships in rec-
reation, but also a full-scale Department
Of Recreation.

In the intervening years that depart-
ment, headed by Charles K. Brightbill,
has become firmly entrenched in the
university’s program, and today has 183
undergraduates and graduate students
working toward careers as recreation
specialists in municipal and national
parks, schools, industries, armed forces,
institutions and residences for elders.

Recreation—which stems from the
Latin recreare, meaning to refresh or
create anew—may seem a singularly
unscholarly subject. But the more one
considers its role in man’s utilization Of
leisure, the broader its potentials be-
come. Soon it emerges in one’s thinking

PARKS AND
RECREATION
DIRECTORS

O 

GET YOUR
COPY NOW!

450

 

as fully as valid a topic for academic
research as geology, psychology or
French literature.

In England various sociOlOgists are
advocating creation Of a Ministry Of
Leisure. What’s more, they are pro-
posing that the department have equal
status with the Ministry Of War and Of
Foreign Affairs. This may seem pre-
posterous; but it is a fact Of human
progress that the constructive and sat-
isfying use Of leisure is becoming one
Of the great problems Of our age.

Automation is creating more~ free
time and fewer jobs. Every year the
work week is being chipped away, and
many say we’ll be down to a four-day
week within a decade.

Folks are retiring earlier, tOO. The
military services, along with many pO-
lice and fire departments, have achieved
retirement on half-pay after twenty
years Of service. Many unions are de-
manding the same deal for their mem-
bers, and it is quite conceivable that
within two or three decades workers
will be retiring as casually at forty-five
as they are today at sixty-five.

What will people do to fill the vac-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

New booklet helps you plan a
high-security, revenue-producing
checking system

Sentinel's design breakthrough offers you escape from obsolete
concepts in self-service checking. Concealed locks remove
known pry-out risks . . .variable fees through any coin combina-
. . quick change for free service . . .
only two moving, replaceable parts mean low owning cost and
long life. Write today: Sentinel Lockers, Loudonville, Ohio.

SW ~-

AUTOMATIC CHECKING SYSTEMS

tion increases revenue .

uum? Some will continue tO work.
there won’t be enough jobs for ev
one, and we may see fulfilled the pro
ecy of the late F. W. Ecker who s
“Some day people will pay for
privilege of working.”

. . . Many men and women will 3

   
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

outlets in humanitarian chores and
cial services. But the rest will wall
in free time and be forced to chO
between a gnawing, unrewarding b0
dom—or recreation.

The latter alternative will prove c
plex and challenging, for most of
don’t know' how to recreate. Oh,
enjoy playing golf or pinochle now .
then, but we know very little about
ing recreation as a full-time, satisfy
component in daily living. . . .

You and I may find it unnecess
to study recreation as a scholarly
suit. But it’s gratifying to know in
tuitions of higher learning have re
nized the need and are making rec
tion curriculums available tO the you
er generation. #

Reprinted with permission from
Peterson’s column “Life Begins at
ty,” syndicated by King Features.

RECREA

  
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
    
   

7

Modern City

I UCCESSFUL and economical urban renewal demands a
.' closer look at the changing face of the metropolis and
I inpoint analysis of how cities grow in the present dec-
Too many planners and property owners, says geog-
_ 161‘ Donald W. Griffin of the University of California at
- Angeles, still view the expansion process of cities from
outlook and theories of some fifty years ago.

In those days, the traditional city grew around the central
Qiness district. This core was surrounded by a mixed
mnercial and residential transition zone, which separated
retail heart of the city from well-defined sections of ex-
isive houses, cheaper homes, and heavy industrial con-
ltrations. The city grew through a sort of falling domino
' t, in which the central core nudged into the transition
ne, which in turn pushed out the surrounding industrial
l residential belts.

Today, the slow, orderly growth of cities has been re-
‘ ed by a gigantic leapfrogging process, triggered largely
.the automobile and mass transportation. Large depart-
it stores jump from downtown to outer suburbia and
m self-contained shopping centers. Industries, serviced

fleets of trucks, no longer stick close to the main railroad

~u THEY MADE

 

  

$-
0  “1;:-
Qf/a” '

TO HELP YOU

(1 your agency . . . public or private . . .
its image into print, we present an

ABC Manual
For Ne w Editors

ve the mysteries of printing! Too often printed materials
st; be put out by a staff person who, though trained in his
' profession, is untrained in the basic publishing techniques
needs. These are the techniques of editing and of the
phic arts. Here is a manual of the ABC’s of common edi-
ial and production practices and shortcuts which can elim-
te hours of ineffective work and costly mistakes.

56 pp. $2.50.

NATIONAL REEREATIOH AND PARK ASSOEIAIION
8 West Eighth Street, New York. 11. Y. 10011

 

VEMBER, 1965

- OTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

terminals. Workers, who once lived near their jobs, now
hop in their cars and drive half an hour to their tract homes.

The new mobility has drastically changed the clear-cut
pattern of the city’s commercial, industrial, residential, and
recreational areas. Instead, a given area may contain light
industry and luxury high-rise apartments, alongside shabby
frame houses and old government office buildings. Despite
the change, many planners still tend to look at each city
section, particularly the downtown area, as a uniform chunk
of real estate, says Dr. Griffin. As a result, when an area
is slated for urban renewal, the good is often leveled with
the bad. “Urban renewal is needed in most cities,” he says.

“but before we condemn an area, we should carefully decide
if there aren’t some parts worth saving.”

Salt Free
ONSTRUCT ION of the first municipally-owned water

desalting plant in the State of Texas and the second
such installation in the United States to provide a com-
munity’s entire water needs is the Port Mansfield Public
Utilities District’s $200,000 desalting plant, scheduled for
completion by the end of this year. It will convert 250,000
gallons per day of a brakish deep well water to a fresh
domestic water supply. The complete water treatment fa-
cility, consisting of a water supply well, iron and manga-
nese removal filters, two 100,000-gallon concrete storage
reservoirs, and the desalting unit, will cost approximately
$400,000. Water for this project will come from a well
eighteen miles west of the port through a new pipeline. The
Community Facilities Administration of the Housing and
Home Finance Agency is financing the project under a
grant and loan.

Port Mansfield is the newest Culf port in Texas, the first
in the liio Grande Valley, and a rapidly growing commer-
cial and resort community. It is located on the Laguna
Madre intercoastal waterways, fifty-six miles north of
Brownsville, Texas, and opposite the Padre Island National
Seashore currently under development by the US. Depart-
ment of lnterior National Park Service. Availability of
good water and the new Padre Island project are expected
to stimulate Port Mansfield’s growth over the next decade.
The desalting plant, which will reduce the total mineral
content of the raw water from about 2,400 parts per million
to 500 ppm, can handle the requirements of a population
of several thousands. Prior to 1950. the port did not exist.

Eight million dollars has been expended to build the new
port, which has all necessary facilities including a newly
completed automatically lighted airfield, a 260-foot-wide
channel and turning basin, marinas and repair yards for
oil, fishing, and pleasure boats, motels, a Coast Guard sta-
tion, and lots for real estate and commercial development.
Plans are underway to build a causeway from Padre Island

to Port Mansfield which is the southern headquarters of the
Padre lsland National Seashore.

~15]

CONCERNING UPKEEP

 

SNOW REMOVAL FROM SKATING AREAS

Roland (Pat) Lachance

4 LL PLOWS used by the Recreation

and Parks Department in Concord,
New Hampshire, are equipped with
steel-plate wings twenty-four to thirty-
six inches long, the height same as each
plow. These wings have an angle-iron
bottom runner curved at the outer end
to prevent digging into the ground and
to help the plow ride up over uneven
frozen surfaces. The side wings are
held in place with two bolts on each
end and one in the center of the plow
through the angle-iron braces. These
five bolts require but ‘a few minutes to
either put on or remove the wings from
the plow.

Why wings on plows? In our case by
raising the level of the pond sixteen
inches above normal height, we have
but few spots where the pond edge is too
sharp to go directly from the ice sur-
face to our snow storage areas. 50, with
wings on the plows, snow can be pushed
in any desired spot without spilling out
or losing the load whenever a change of
direction is necessary. Also, by plow-
ing in straight passes without wings or
in a circular pattern, the snow depth be-
comes too great to continue pushing it
to the sides before the accumulated
weight will sink the ice enough to al-
low water on the surface and form
slush. By removing snow with each pass
to solid ground, the pressure or weight

is lessened and will allow the ice to rise
and remain dry.

Every day following good skating
conditions, we broom the ice. At first,
when it is only about four inches thick,
a single four-foot rotary broom, driven
by a Gravely tractor is used. As the ice
gets thicker, two brooms clean from op-
posite sides until the ice can support
our six-foot “Sweepster” rotary broom,
propelled by a 9HP motor, mounted in
front of a four-wheel-drive pickup
truck. On our outside neighborhood
rinks, we usually hand scrape the skat-
ing area before adding a light coating
or spray of water daily after the desired
surface has been built up.

Unless a snow storm changes our
schedule, we usually plane four times

each week after the ice is six or more
W

MR. LACHANCE is maintenance superin-
tendent for the Recreation and Parks
Department in Concord, New Hamp-
shire. H e covered spraying of a skating

area in the September 1964 RECREA-
TION.

152

inches thick. By removing a quarter to
three-eighth inches of top ice, all skate
marks, chips, or bad spots are shaved
off, leaving a smooth, crack-free glass-
like finish. Air bubbles, snow ice, or
patches of snow are thereby removed,
allowing the ice to become thicker.

We fill cracks only after the ice is a
foot or more and in the process of ex-
pansion. Planing removes most cracks
before they become troublesome. How-
ever, when they need filling, we try to
apply water on days when the tempera-
ture rises close to the melting point
from a tank mounted on a tractor with
a garden hose attached to the end of a
hockey stick. 0n extremely cold days
water will not fuse to the ice unless it is
hot enough to melt the ice and bond it
together.-

The Concord Recreation and Parks
Department uses the following equip-
ment for snow removal:

1 half-ton Willys four-wheel-drive pickup
truck

1 half-ton Dodge four-wheel-drive pickup
truck

1 ton-and-a-half International four-wheel-
drive dump truck

1 Worthington tractor

1 Ford tractor front-end loader with snow
bucket

1 Gravely blower

* * * *

BELSON'S '65
WAREHOUSE CLEARANCE SALE!

For Further Details Write

‘L
‘.

I E]

I,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

SAVE NOW! HURRY! OFFER ENDS DECEMBER 31, 1965

WE MUST CLEAR OUR WAREHOUSE OF ALL '65 STOCK
TO MAKE ROOM FOR OUR '66 INVENTORY

SPECIAL PRICES ON ORDERS OF 6 OR I2 UNITS

6 QF-SOO-W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . .S24J9 on.

I2 FC-‘I I93 CHAR-WOOD CAMPSTOVES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$23.58 on.

6 QF-SOO—W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . . .S24.89 en.

6 GF-SOO PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES HARDWARE ONLY . . . . . . .SI4.22 ea.

12 QF-BOO-W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . “$23.53 ea.

12 QF-BOO PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES HARDWARE ONLY . . . . . . .SI3.4B el.

PLUS FREE FREIGHT ALLOWED ON ANY ORDER OF
SIX (6) OR MORE UNITS ANYWHERE IN THE U.S.A.

BELSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.
NORTH AURORA, ILLINOIS

______—__‘

Cement Mulch

OROUS cement blocks cast fr
P three-quarter to quarter-inch gr
e1 can provide an attractive and eff?
tive mulch for ornamental planting
and save a great deal of water. Dr. S.‘
Richards, soil physicist at the Univ.
sity of California, Riverside, reporthl
during the Western Society of Soil 5!
ence section of the American Asso‘

tion for the Advancement of Science-
UCR, that the block pores have an

timum size for a soil mulch when h
in a rigid matrix with fine sand, cemtl
and water.

An outdoor test with the blo
showed that for a 42-day period in
gust and September, young trees
mulched required fifteen surface ce
meters of water—about six inches
six irrigations, while similar trees i
the mulch were given five centime
of water in two irrigations,

Dr. Richards said most of the w
which comes as rainfall or irriga
drains immediately into the soil. T
show that the water lost by evaporai
is greatly reduced by a five centim
thick mulch. Pans of soil having .n
ous mulches to be compared with
soil were placed under a bank of Ru
scent lights. For the period follow
an “irrigation,” evaporation loss f
the block was only twenty-five per
that for the bare soil. Later loss of
ter through the block was about e
to that from a pan covered with a pl
sheet. Blocks made from plaster s
and larger gravel, one-half to one i ‘1
in size, showed water loss rates of fi E
three and eighty percent, respectiv

relative to bare soi1.—UC Clip She

      

if

60542

I

RECRE-

  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
 
   
 
 
   
  
 

DIGEST

ROJECT

.7 - Dobrof and Julian N. Jublin

MATEUR radio gives individuals
and groups the means for com-
niunicating with individuals

groups in other cities, states, and
tries using electronic equipment.

e club setting, amateur radio pro-

'_ . the individual with opportunities

4 rn a new skill, make friends while

u ing, plan for action in a group, de-
- II group feeling, develop leadership

tial and provide service to others.

hat exactly is amateur radio? It is

, tially a hobby based on the con-

tion and use of radio transmitting

receiving equipment for communi-

, us. To engage in this pursuit, the

'idual must have a knowledge of

I ronics theory, construction prac-

' International Morse Code, radio

edures, and the federal laws gov-

g amateur radio. He must have a

. se granted by the Federal Commu-

ions Commission before he can use

ansmitter. Although the require-
ts appear formidable, almost any-
an learn enough to pass the exami-
 given by the FCC for the license.
licensed, the amateur can spend

hobby hours constructing new
pment, talking to other amateurs

', e air, making various experiments

any combination of these.

ateurS are boys and girls, men

women, of diverse backgrounds.

   
  
   
 
   
 

3 Demos and MR. JABLIN, members
I wish Welfare Board’s professional
, are both amateur radio operators.
.. material is digested with permis-
‘ from Jewish Community Center
', ram Aids, Spring 1961, profession-
urnal of the national 1W8.

131831311, 1965

RECREATION

“Ham”

EVELOPING AN
MATEUR RADIO

The usual age for beginning in amateur
radio is around twelve to thirteen, al-
though youngsters of six or seven have
been licensed; there is no age require-
ment. Men become interested, frequent-
ly because their sons have taken up the
hobby or because they have always
liked to work with tools and equipment.
The mechanics of radio make a relaxing
leisu re-time pursuit for men and women
who Spend the day in a shop or office.
Amateur radio is also an interesting
possibility for older adult programing
in centers, particularly since many sen-
ior citizens are amateur operators.

The American Radio League, which
is the national amateur radio associa-
tion, reports some 1,330 amateur radio
clubs affiliated with it. Most of these
are without specific sponsorship. hav-
ing sprung up spontaneously. There
are. however, high-school radio clubs,
YMCA radio groups. and clubs under
other communal agency auspices.

The program goals for radio clubs
are auite typical of those of other types
of skill groups, with some special over-
tones resulting from the specific hobby
involved. Basically. there is the desire
to meet other amateurs. The club is a
place to which people may come to
learn the various aspects of the art re-
quired for a federal license—elements
of electronics, International Morse
Code, and radio laws. The club offers
the individual the opportunity to ex-
tend his knowledge beyond these basics.
Frequently the club is the locus for an
amateur radio station which may he op-
erated by the members. Finally, the
club can promote certain group activi-

programs have "may facets

ties in which the amateur abandons his
essentially individual role and becomes
part of a team devoted to meeting a
specific communications problem.

L RADERSHII’ for a center amateur ra-
dio group should meet the normal
criteria for group leaders in the agency.
There should be one, possibly two,
group leaders skilled in electronics
with the interest and ability to transmit
this knowledge. They should be able to
relate to young people, since a large
percentage of the members of the club
will most likely be teenagers. Suitable
club leaders may be found among the
center members, in other radio clubs in
the community, and in the local Civil
Defense organization. Inquiries may be
made at local broadcast studios and
wholesale electronics parts sh0ps, where
personnel are frequently amateurs. The
club leaders should have FCC licenses.
For meetings, the club will need a
room, which can double as a classroom
for instruction; a blackboard and a few
tables are helpful. If the club reaches
the point when the decision is made to
set up a station, somewhat different fa-
cilities will be needed, such as a room
devoted to radio only. It need not he
very large, although it could be large
enough to serve as a meeting and class-
room as well as a station; an upstairs
location would be preferable for an-
tenna considerations.

The beginning budget for an amateur
radio club should be quite nominal.
Less than $50 will provide for publica-
tions and radio parts as well as code
equipment for instruction. As the group
develops it will require some operating
funds, which could be met by registra-
tion fees and /’or dues. If a club station
is contemplated, this represents a size-
able investment of several hundred dol-
lars. A fund built up through dues, do-
nations of money, the proceeds of auc-
tions of donated used equipment (a
popular program), and other means can
provide for this, and in some centers the
actual equipment for the station has

453

 

GET TH GUYS
T0 VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

"SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
last with a lusty group sing! Send for Natlonal's
free catalog oi all-time hit songs. available in slide
form for as low as 50c a tune!

Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. INc.
42 West 48th Street, N. v. as. N. v.

ATTENTION

Affiliated Parks
and Recreation Departments
ARE THE PARTICIPANTS

in your
SPORTS PROGRAMS
PROTECTED
with
ACCIDENT COVERAGE

9

For sports team insurance to
protect your basketball. foot-
ball. and ice hockey teams.

write to

NATIONAL
RECREATION and PARK
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street, New York. N.Y. 10011

 

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

HNDHAN |L©RE

7 Y - CRAFTS - KITS - LITERATURE
m

e
9‘4

Authentic and complete for beginners
and experts. Shipped immediately.

Since i927/Post: New York City
Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

PLUME TRADING CO.

D u. 1: NJ box 36:), Monroe N.{.

FREE... Send for nnest catalog and
price list.

Name
Address
City

VVWVVVVVYVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
.154

- surrurs o cosrumss - nuns
A

State

 

VVVVVVVVVVVVVYVVVVVVV

MMMAA‘AAAAAAAAMA

4

been donated by interested members of

the center.
C LUB MEETINGS fall rather naturally
into distinct periods of activity.
Typically, a meeting will begin with the
usual and necessary business of club
government. The next phase might be a
period of instruction although this can
be held before the general meeting if
the class group is small and there is
sentiment against taking club time for
teaching. Following this, a general dis-
cussion on some aspect of radio, a lec-
ture on electronics or a film on the sub-
ject may be scheduled. Time must be
alloted for what is known in ham radio
as “rag chewing” or socializing.

If the club has a station, or is building
one, this introduces an additional factor
into the programing for meetings. A
period should be set aside for the con-
struction or operation of the equipment.

The “entertainment” part of club
meetings is most important: this enter-
tainment takes the form of talks, film
discussions, and demonstrations, keeps
interest alive, and attracts new mem-
bers. Sources of these programs are
many and varied. Films and film strips
are available from the American Radio
Relay League, electronics manufactur-
ers, government agency libraries (nota-
bly the Armed Forces), commercial dis-
tributors, local telephone and utility
companies, and colleges.

Speakers may be recruited from the
engineering staffs of local radio manu-
facturers and wholesalers, police, fire,
telephone and utility communications
divisions, FCC, FAA, and other govern-
ment local branches. Local hams who
have built unusual equipment or who
have taken part in special projects can
also be invited to speak. Demonstra-
tions of equipment may accompany
some of these talks. Lectures may be
prepared by club members on specific
radio topics; these give the speakers
experience in addressing a group and
also an opportunity to do research 011 a
new subject, both worthwhile objec-
tives. Panel discussions on differing
aspects of one radio subject accomplish
the same purpose, and both types of
programs increase the member’s knowl-
edge. Speakers in the categories men-
tioned earlier ordinarily do not charge
for lectures.

. r' .
There is a very strong community

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

service orientation to the amateur r

hobby. The license issued by the 5

ernment is given specifically for con
erations of “public interest, con
ience and necessity.” Radio ama

l
i

 

clubs, therefore, devote large segm 

of their activity time to group comm |

cations problems, tests and service 1
grams. Clubs, using portable (h
carried) and mobile (in automobi
equipment, have provided commun
tions for marshals of large civic
rades. Using amateur radio, a ce
can set up a link with an associ
country camp several hundred
distant or might establish a net“
among center, day-camp site, and tr
portation personnel.

Radio amateurs commonly ha
“traHic” consisting of nonurgent
sages to all parts of the country an
many points overseas. Clubs take -
messages from individuals in the e
munity and forward them along e
lished networks to their destinati

The radio amateur role in Civic
fense is a special one. In most co
ties, amateurs have their own emer
cy organization (Amateur Radio E
gency Corps) to cope with situat
arising from storms, flooding, fire,
the like which disrupt normal I
munications. Beyond this, the Civil
fense organization has set up its
system (Radio Amateur Civil Emer
cy Services). Any of these acti
may be conducted as a club progra

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Below are some basic books which
found useful in the library of an am
radio club. They cover general radio t
and licensing requirements, as well a
kinds of equipment which may becom
of a club station. As the membershi
comes more experienced and is interes
specific aspects of radio operating, other
uals devoted to specialized phases of
will suggest themselves and should be .

How to Become a Radio Amateur,
Learning the Radio Telegraph Code,
The Radio Amateur’s License Manual,
Understanding Amateur Rad'o, $2.00;
Amateur’s Handbook, $3.50; QST Ma
$5.00 annually; all from the American
League, Newington, Connecticut.

ABCs of Ham Radio, Howard S.
W70E, $1.50; Building Up Your Ham '
Howard S. Pyle, W70E, $2.50; both
Howard S. Sams and Company, Indian

Building the Amt teur Radio Station,
Berens, WZPIK, $2.95, John F. Rider &
pany, 116 West 14th Street, New York,

Amateur Radio License Guide, Barry
man, K21EG, $150; CO, The Radio
teur’s Journal, $5.00 annually, Cowan

lishing Corporation, 14 Vanderventer A
Port Washington, New York 11050.

RECRE

‘

   

“RTS 63 CRAFTS CORNER

THINK CHRISTMAS!

n Wolcott

HRISTMAS is almost here again! And whether we are

four, fifty or eighty-four years old, it begins to cast its
. I on us, pushing our thoughts to decorations or making
. The following projects are old, perhaps traditional,
* that is why they’ve been chosen. In an age of pla'tics,
 aretl kits, and stores full of imaginative craft gimmicks,
s remember these; very plain and very simple.

  
   
   
  
  
  

Pomander (sachet)

"EEDED:

Firm oranges, apples, or knmqnats
Cloves (1 box per pontander)

I teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon orrisroot powder
1 heavy paper bag

Colorful ribbon of yonr choice
Saran Wrap

’aocanuaa:

Choose cloves with long pointed stems,
insert them into the fruit until the entite
fruit (choose one of the above) is thor-
oughly covered. Combine cinnamon and
orrisroot powder, putting the mixture
into the bag. Insert pomander and
shake until completely covered with the
powder. Close the bag, tie the top, and
hang in a dry, dark, cool place for at
least one week. When cu'ed wrap in
Saran Wrap to preserve the fragrance
until ready to use in your Chritsmas
graming. Tie with red ribbon as shown (for hanging).

Triptych (cigar-box style)
EEDEDZ
Flat cigar box (approx. 81/3"-by-11/2")
Decorative paper or material
Figurines (erechi, or as desired)
Styrofoam or wood bloek for base (approx. 6"-by-2")

  
   
     
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 

OCHDUREi

Cut lid of cigar box in half.
Tape or glue loose half to the
box. Cover entite box, inside
and out, with paper or material
of your choice. Decorate doors
with gold and trim edges as
desired (colorful lace is one
suggestion). Cover styrofoam
or wood block with same ma-
l as box. Arrange box as shown and use figures or scene
de as desired.

    

‘-

31- no.3.

Advent Ribbons

(old Scandinavian gift giving custom)

)lil):

'l‘en small boxes, approx. 1"-by-3" or 2"—by-3”, (one for
each of the ten days before Christmas)

Ribbon, approximately one yard long by six inches wide

Scraps of paper, ribbons, sequins, seals, sparkle, ct retcra

Tempera paints

Clue

CEDURE:

ecorate each of the ten boxes differently, using the above
ested supplies. Glue the boxes onto the large ribbon,
ing them equally. Each box contains a small gift;
as candies, coins, charms, bells, rings, earrings.

EMBER, 1965

buttons, et cetera. Advent ribbons are hung in doorways or
on the walls. They are given as gifts (or exchanged) and
one box is opened for each of the ten days before Christmas.
(Good for all age groups!)

Special Christmas Supplies and Sources

Pine Cortes: lloliday Handicrafts Inc.. Apple llill, Winsted, Con—
necticut.

Bells-BeIIs-Bells: Serna, 39 West 19th Street, New York 10011.

Sequins: Magnus Craft Materials, Inc., 108 Franklin Street, New
York 10013.

Stain-Glass Supplies: Stain Glass Products, Box 756, Cleveland 22,
Ohio.

Felt Remnants: American Handicrafts, 18-20 West 14th Street, New
York City.

Cold Embossed Papers: The 0-? Craft Company, Inc., Sandusky,
Ohio.

Block Printing Paper: J. Johnson Company, Inc., 51 Manhasset
Avenue, Manhasset, New York.

Broadcloth Appliques in Christmas Designs: Mumat Mills, 15
East 16111 Street, New York City.

Burlap Patterns or by the yard in a variety of colors: American
Reedcraft Corporation,‘ 417 Lafayette Avenue, P.0. Box 154, Haw-
thorne, New Jersey.

Color Corrugated Paper (also art papers and colored tissue):
Bermiss-Jason Corporation, 49-20 Van Dam Street, Long Island
City, New York.

Christmas Bibliography

A 'l‘naasunv or CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS, Zelda Wyatt SchuIA-e,
Hearthside Press Inc., 118 East 28th Street, New York 10016. Pp.
128. $3.95.

A NEW LOOK AT CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS, S'ster M. Gratin Listocte,
Bruce Publishing Company, 400 North Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis-
consin. Pp. 149. $4.95.

FELT FANCIES, American Felt Company, Clcnville, Connecticut. Free.
(Leaflet containing eleven projects.)

DESIGNS FOR A FAMILY CnmsntAs, Ernestine Sabrina CoHey and
Dorothy Fitch Minton, Hearthside Press, Inc.. 118 East 28th Street,
New York 10016. Pp. 160. $4.95. (Contains crafts. traditional
ideas, community plans. special Christmas recipes. et cetera.)

Pamnmxmc, Dona Z. Me'lach, Pitman, 20 East 45th Street, New
York 10017. Pp. 47. $1.00. (Excellent guide for making your own
Christmas cards.)

MEALS son A Caown CAN Ba FUN, Accent International, Suite 1100,
551 Fifth Avenue, New York City 10017. One copy free. (Ideas
for decorations, planning and recipes—based on “fifty people”
gatherings.)

GIFTS TO MAKE AND Give, Wrights’ Trims, William I. Wright and
Sons, West Warrcn, Massachusetts. (Twelve ideas in a colorful
brochure.) Free.

\Vllll'-\VAX, American Wax Corporation, Azusa, California. (Com-
plete instructions to candle tanking.) $.10 per copy. (Ask for price
listings.)

.\h:t.'r,\\toLD, Meltamold Company, P.0. Box 433. Chappaqua. New

York. $.25 (Comp‘cte instructions for
using McItamold and many charming
Christmas decorations.)

Sewmc St'rruas axn Tannnvcs, llomc-

Sew, Inc... 1825 West Market Street,
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. (Write for
20-page catalog—marvelous items for
decorative gifts. They also have a
“sample club" to join—for $.25, four
times a year you receive samples.)

(Inms‘rsus, An American Annual of
Christmas Literature and Art, Augso
burg Publishing. 426 South 5th Street,
Minneapolis 15. Minnesota. Pp. 66.
$3.50 (pa per. $1.50) 1 Christmas music.
poetry. art. stories. articles.)

 

455

MARKET NEWS

«- A BIG FOR ALL SEASONS. A new self-propelled, riding snow
thrower with hammer-knife mower attachment, for indus-
trial, institutional, municipal, and other heavy-duty applica-
tions, the new Model 60 Bob-Cat Snow Thrower cuts a
swath forty-four inches wide, throwing snow up to forty
feet in a ISO-degree arc. A patented two-stage design fea-
tures high-speed impeller blades turning in the same direc-
tion as separate feeder blades to catch the snow and throw
it through the discharge chute, preventing clogging and stall-
ing even in snow having a high water content. The rig is
available with a high-reach loading chute for loading snow
into any standard size dump truck.

Two large drive wheels, hydraulically powered, move the
unit through the deepest drifts. Travel speeds are varied,
within a range of O-7MPH, by a single lever, without shifting.
Engine speed remains constant for full fluid power at any
travel speed, plus dual range for high torque.

For cutting grass, a hammer-knife mower attachment re-
places the snow thrower. Equipped with standard knives,
the mower produces a “velvet finish” on fine turf . . . handles
tall grass that reel-type units miss. Optional heavy duty ring-
mountcd knives will cut high weeds on smooth or rough
terrain. Literature and specifications on the Bob-Cat Model

60 are available on request from the Wisconsin Marine Com-
pany, Lake Mills, Wisconsin.

' MOBILE POWER. Astrolux high-intensity lights are a radi-
cally new concept in portable power illumination. Small in
size, light in weight and streamlined for one-man, one-hand
operation, they are capable of bathing a whole city block
in daylight, bright illumination without any special instal-
lation, just at the flick of a switch. These high-intensity
lights incorporate a revolutionary formula of top-quality
optical components for optimal light collection, light intensi-
fication, and light projection. An unusually high percentage
of the light rendered by standard projection lamps is pre-
served, equalized, and projected without glare and hotspots.
The result is an extremely bright, evenly distributed, and
edge-sharp field of illumination, projected over great dis-
tances of a thousand feet and more, never before achieved in
portable lighting equipment. The usual heat created by light
projectors is completely eliminated due to the ingenious
aero- and thermodynamic cooling system. For additional
information, write to: Karl Heitz, Inc., 979 Third Avenue,

New York 10022.

c LAMINATED LOW-DOWN. Architects cut the cost of the
new Shanty Creek Lodge in Bellaire, Michigan, between
fifteen and thirty percent without sacrificing the luxurious
warmth of wood they wanted, and without sacrificing the
structural strength necessary to carry heavy loads over

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Mogo

156

   
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   

long spans. They did this by using nearly a mile of l
nated wood beams, columns and mullions in the three-
lodge instead of steel beams or reinforced concrete. L
nated wood offers many possibilities for recreation and
structures.

H. J. Begrow said that his architectural firm, Begrox
Brown of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, recommended '
nated rather than natural wood beams because of th
treme size involved. The 97,000-square-foot central a
ing required a 118-foot-long ridge beam. In addition,
nated members were needed to provide the nece
strength to support the lodge’s heavy roof load require
of fifty pounds per square foot. “But the laminated
also helped us to hold down costs,” Br. Begrow says. “
enabled us to erect the building at costs fifteen pe
lower than steel beams veneered with wood, and
thirty percent lower than reinforced concrete.”

The laminated members used in the construction I
lodge were made of Southern pine lumber. To provi
desired finish, each unit was wire brushed, staine
varnished. ‘fThe wire brushing added a rustic appear
Mr. Begrow explains, “while the staining produced a
comfortable color in keeping with the atmosphere we
striving to create.” Many of the beams, laminated
waterproof glue, project outside the building faca
form a wide eave Shelter. In the winter, these protr
beams must withstand temperature extremes of mor
100 degrees difference between the inside and outside.
ter in Bellaire drops as low as —30 degrees F., while in
the temperature is maintained at 70 degrees.

For further information on laminated wood, wr
the Koppers Company, Pittsburgh 19, Pennsylvania. .
David E. Birkhimer.) 3‘"

r’

RECR

OURCE GUIDE

    
   
     

 TO ADVERTISERS

   
   
   
  
     
       
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
    
 

 

 

 

he!

lockers _.__....._.._...._._._._....._ 421

u anPlayground Device ___..__._....._ 461

Mig.'......_--...__...........-......_....._. . 452

' .w .._.._.___.. ............. -, . 458

' m..." . _________ _- . 431

' Fires __ -__.._-..._..__.__._.___. _.... 446

inc ........_._.........._  438

f _._._....--...................._._.__........ 426

Forge . Inside Back Cover

Co. ......_.._...._.__.__..... 426

Studios ____ -__....._..______.. 454

' tarp. ._.__.........-..-......._............._ 459

' Trading .........__...___.._.__..._..__.__. 454
_ '5 Council on Physical Fitness ._

. __.....-_..._...._......._ Back Cover

_Anschulz .......__--.._..-.--._._......._._ 462

lockers _________ --.._.._. 450

.' - slries _.._.._..___......_-_...... ._ 426

~ Corp. ..__... ......... ........._ 419

leather ....__._---_-...s..._,...._-.n..s 461

m : first thing
it] save

'~ ' Villll' Bill 300

IS you!

it

  

first things first. Form the life-
ling habit. Have a health check-
once a year, every year. That

your doctor has the chance
ldetect cancer in its early and
re curable stage. Start your
' saving plan now, with a
me call to your doctor!

a e
- Pu ll BIRCH society

.THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER

use, 1965

  —Plea.se Write Directly To Sources Given

——and mention RECREATION Magazine

MlilliEilAltCE ADD SURFACIN

All-in-ane. A versatile tool called the Uni-Vise
—a woodworking vise, light metalworking vise
"revolving iaw" clamp, CLciamp, and bar clamp
—was designed and manufactured by Swiss
craftsmen and is particularly suitable for use
by parks and recreation departments. Its adapt-
ability makes it useful in handcraft classes, and
maintenance and repair crews, bath in-shop
and mobile, will And many uses for the vise,
because it can be clamped to any llrm surface to
hold abiects at any size. The tour-inch wide
iaws open to eight inches and, used with aux-
iliary clamp (supplied) or with wood "bar,"
will hold virtually any abiect at any size in
position. Plastic iaw liners are included for use
with delicate work pieces. For further intarma-

tian, write to the Suprema Corporation, Dept.
x-e, P.O. Box 23, Rye, New York 10580.

law-cast skating. Sheeting at white polyvinyl
chlorine can convert areas such as tennis courts,
parking lots, level grassed areas into tempo-
rary ice-skating rinks. Only a simple wooden
trame, deep enough to hold not less than four
inches of water, and a kickboard to prevent
liner damage are needed in addition to the
liner. lcemaster liners are made in large rec-
tangular sheets and delivered occordion-tolded
in both directions for easy opening and instal-
lation. The ten-mils-thick vinyl sheeting is tough
and generally very puncture-resistant but, it
it should became damaged, it can be easily
repaired, even under water. Out-at-season
storage is simply managed by washing the liner
with detergent and water, drying, refolding, and
placing it in a coal, ratfree place. Further infor-
mation is available from Stall Industries, Inc.,
79 Dryden Road, Upper Montclai—r, New Jersey
07043, or 1982 West Jefferson, Detroit, Mich-
igan 48216.

Martarhed. Old concrete lloars and pavements
can be completely overlaid with new concrete,
greatly reducing replacement costs. Overlay is
accomplished by use at Plastican, a new dis-
persion of polymer resins. Instead of water in
a mix at regular portland cement and sand, the
resultant "fortified mortar," unlike ordinary
mixes, adheres firmly to and becomes a part of
the old concrete. For complete Plosticon appli-
cation data, write to Maintenance Inc., Wooster,

Ohio. (Ask for Technical Data POO-264.)

Naish—Nalse—Nalsel Alter the large, fully
equipped swimming pool at the Port Clinton,
Ohio, High School had been in use less than a
year, it was obvious that there remained one
unsolved problem. That problem was nalse.
When in use the pool area was hiled with the
constant clamor common to most swimming
pools. lnstructars' voices were lost in the din.

Even whistles, blown to attract attention for

safety purposes, sometimes passed unnoticed.
School authorities determined to correct the

situation both to make the teaching periods
mare ellective and remedy what could be a
safety problem. Acoustical contractors recom-
mended the use of highly ehicient glass-loam
sound absorbers that could be installed with
no structural changes. The units are called
Geacaustlc unit absorbers. Since the units are
all glass with no organlc binders, they will not
absorb moisture or be affected by swimming
pool chemicals. For detailed literature, write to
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation, One Gateway
Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania.

Sculptured flooring. Textured chips at slat-e are
realistically simulated in a new pattern at all-
vinyl sculptured hoorlng called Carina. The
new tiaarlng pattern carries the same hand-
etched look typical at the entire sculptured
series, and the textured surface simulates a
cut or hewn look. Carina is altered in 12"-
by-12" tiles only in brick, slate, or sand colors.
For further information, write to Howard Bab-
cock, News Bureau, Goodyear Tire and Rubber
Company, Akron 16, Ohio.

PROGul'i AIDS

Upside-dawn timer. A new stopwatch, that
hangs tram its bottom and has a case molded
from tough, elastic nylon plastic, has a sturdy
Range at the bottom at the dial incorporating
holes through which the neck lanyard is looped.
The lean-ides watch can be taken in hand right-
side-up quickly, ready for operation and read-
ing without hicklng the lanyard clear at the dial.
Since the Range is molded integrally with the
case, there is no chance of separation from the
watch. The case's outer edge is boldly knurled
to provide a secure grip.

The line includes seven stopwatches. For
timing football or similar games, there is a sixty-
minut—e model that reads to a fifth at a second
and has a "time-out" button. For racing tans,
there is a lllteen-mlnute reverse-counting yacht
hand that makes two complete revolutions each
minute in order to provide easy-ta-read accura-
cy. For sailboat racing with scheduled starts,
there is a hfteen minute reverse-counting yacht
timer. For industrial and personal timing, there
Is one calibrated in hundredths of a minute that
in a single motion can be both reset to zero and
restarted. leanidas stopwatches are available
lrom Heuer dealers throughout the world and
are distributed in the United States by the Heuer
Time Corporation, 441 lexingtan Avenue, New
York 10017. A catalog ls available on request.

In the Tetan country. Unusual and rarely pho-
tographed wildlife of one of the last regions in
the United States where herds of buliaia, elk,
and bull moose still room the prairies is tea-
tured in a new 16mm him, Trek to the Tetars-s.
Presented as a public service by the Eastman
Kodak Company, this 23-minute him is available
for free-loan use to schools, sports and nature
groups, camera clubs, and adult and civic ar-

45?

ganizatians fram Association Films, Inc. It was
photographed in Eostman Color In the Teton
country of northwest Wyoming. The film contains
interesting close-up and telephoto shots, and
camera buffs will benefit from explonotians at
how they were set up and lensed. Scenes include
buffaloes stampeding, whitetail deer, prairie
dogs, elk, bull moose, and other seldom-seen
animals in their natural habitat.

Prints of Trek to the Tetons are available
from Association Films regional libraries located
in Ridgefield, New Jersey (Broad at Elm); la
Grange, Illinois (561 Hillgrove Avenue); Oak-
mont, Pennsylvania (324 Delaware Avenue,
Allegheny County); Dallas, Texas (1621
Dragon Street); and Hayward, California
(25358 Cypress Avenue).

The use of films by recreation and park depart-
ments in the classroom, industry, churches, for
instructional, inspirational, and sales services.
has increased enormously in the past five years.
The new Viewlex 8mm Optical Sound Proiector
was designed for the special needs of such
groups. It costs less than half its equivalent in
16mm, is considerably smaller, and is light
enough to be carried from room to room. The
complete unit is housed in a single case. The
speaker is part of the projector cover, which is
removed for use, and placed next to the screen.

The major breakthrough in the new Viewlex
projector has been the placement of a full-size
opticol sound track on the film, while simulta-

   

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
. Words in boldface type $.25 each
, RATES: Minimum ad accepted $3.00

COPY:

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

neously increasing the picture oreo. Both the
new projector and the films for it are so de-
signed that stondard magnetic sound can be
added as well, in addition to silent films. For

further information write to Don longer, View-
Iex, lnc., Holbrook, New York.

Tickets, please? At one time or another there
is a need to buy tickets in bulk form. A seven-
teen-page catalogue lists just about every size,
shape, and specialized ticket available. Even
coupon-book tickets and reserved seat tickets.
Write to National Ticket Company, Ticket Ave-
nue, Shamokin, Pennsylvania.

[OW-008T IIIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

 

Insight and eyesight. How many different colors
can we see? Millionsl A new exciting booklet,
The Color Tree, treats the story of color in simple,
understandable terms. Sixteen demonstrations
in color and color perceptiOn are included under
the chapter heading "Fun with Color." This
authoritative booklet on the science of color
teaches us to grasp the subtleties of color. In-
terchemical Carporation scientists prepared The
Color Tree with the assistance of Dr. lsoy
Bolinkin, professor of experimental physics at

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired. -

Type—or clearlylprint—your messa e and the address to which you wish

replies sent. Underline any words you want 0 appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

RECREATtoN Classihed Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York,lNew York 10011.

 

HELP WANTED
Park Planner. Entry-level

; .established private Maine I
‘ “girls' camp. Unusual oppor-_

in working" with programs
involving county, state, and

A to recreation executives and leaders, at
; expanding their own understanding, b

professional position with
San Bernardino County.
Graduation from college

with a major in landscape

architecture, planning, park
management, architecture,
or civil engineering. Salary
range, 86376-38352. Ap-
ply: John T. Pritchard, San
Bernardino County Civil
Service Department, Court-
house, San Bemardino,

California.

Assistant Superintendent

of Recreation and Parks
($5,360-36,090). Minimum
requirements include grad-
uation from an accredited
college or university, with
a major in recreation or a
related held; a master’s
degree or one year of re-
sponsible experience in
group recreational work
preferred. Applications may
be obtained by contacting
the Superintendent of Rec-
reation and Parks, 9 St.
Mary’s Street, Annapolis,
Maryland 21401.

Head Counselor. Long-

"tunity for highly experi-
enced, mature woman. Pro-
fessional training and pri-
vate camp experience pre-
requisites. Minimum age:
thirty. Excellent salary and
working conditions. Oppor-
ltunity for long-term associ-
ation. Replies conhdential.

Write: Box QA, Recreaa

tion Magazine.

General Manager for rec-
reation and park district.
SLED-$1,338. Overall re-
sponsibility for all district
programs and activities.
Must have a bachelor’s de-
gree from a recognized col-
lege or university with spe-
cialization in recreation,
parks management, busi-
ness or public administra-
tion, landscape architec-
ture, city planning, or in a

closely related held AND -

five years of increasingly
responsible professional ex-
perience in the manage-
ment of comprehensive
public recreation and parks
program in a large district
or municipality. Experience

federal agencies is desira-
ble. Examination to be ar-
ranged on an individual
basis. For application, write
to. Alameda County Civil
Service Commission, Room
220, Administration Build-
ing, 1221 Oak Street, Oak-
land, Califorina. Last day
for hling: Friday, Decem-

ber 10, 1965.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Oppor-
tunities to plan and con-
duct individual patient
recreation as well as spe-
cial group activities; mod-
ern equipment and facili-
ties. Positions open to col-
lege graduates with major
in recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised held work. Salary
range: $510 to $619 a
month. Promotional op-
portunities, attractive em-
ployee benefits. Write:
Medical Personnel Serv-
ices, California State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Mall, Sacramento, Califor-
nia 95814. I,

The publisher assumes no respomibilz'ty for services or items advertised here.

458

   
   
  
  
     
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

the University of Cincinnati. For one
copies send $.50 (40% off for more)
terchem Color Tree Booklet, Interchemicol
rotion, 67 West 44th Street, New York

For older adults. A new handbook
Guidelines and Goals for Group Servi .
Older Adult, prepared by the co
Group Services for Older Adults of the
Council of Metropolitan Chicoga, co
who, membership planning, structure,
ship, programing, facilities and equi
financing. The handbook is available -
copy (including a free brochure on ho
a group program) from the Welfare
123 West Madison Street, Chicago 60

Expand your understanding. A works
of an all-day conference sponsored by
cation-Recreation Conference and the
tee on Youth Services of the Notio
Welfare Assembly contains talks by -
specialists on "Pressures on Young Ch'
day," "The Disadvantaged Child," “A
Approach to Children Under Pressu —
Educator's View of lmportont Factors i
Younger Children," and other highlig
conferenCe. Such material will be vs

the training and orientation of leaders,
paid or volunteer. Copies of the 28-
port Young Children Today ore avai
$.60 from NSWA, 345 East 40 Street,
10017.

‘ ' H e
I sent a letter to my level An onolysi
hundred games is given in one of the
prehensive studies of the subject ev
Alice Bertha Gamme's The Traditlonol
England, Scotland, and Ireland, reissu
paperback volumes. Mrs. Gomme
games of courtship and marriage, ho v
feits and animals, guessing games and r
donce games and hopping games, )1
seek and blindfold games, baII gamh
host of others, all with their regional v
She provides the music in a number -
and also the rules and texts of the 5
grams for the dancing games and pi
formations. The two-volume set (nearl
sand pages) is available for $5.00 fr
Publications, 180 Varick Street,

10014.
0

Fresh or artificial. A do-it-yourself «
making striking artificial flower or
can also be used with fresh pasies. The
booklet, in full calor, covers material
ers, basic techniques, color sche
shapes, seasonal ideas, and a full-col
tic wheel, plus thirteen easy how-
each fully illustrated. Available for 8.
$.11 postage) from Boycon's Floral A
at Flowers Ave., Sharon, Pennsylvania

Convos finish. Gesso-coated Canv
a new and very versatile ort item,
thentic canvas texture. The hundred- L
per comes in 16”-by-20" sheets for $
Suitable for all mediums: oil, water co
pastels, charcoal, pencils, et cetero, ‘
can be easily erased, scratched, or r
corrections or effects. Sample sent -
(Also ask for a listing of other surfoc
to Anioc Products, 38-50 Review A -
Island City, New York 11101.

R

JAY B. NASH
1887-1 965

(" JAY B. NASH, widely known phys-
(lucator, recreation leader, author,
1 traveler, and teacher, died in
‘ lnbcr at the age of seventy-eight.
 time of his death, Dr. Nash was
ng as special consultant and teach-
wo classes at Montclair State Col-
Upper Montclair, New Jersey. He
ormerly executive secretary of the
York State Association for Health,
'cal Education, and Recreation;
1 of the Brigham Young University
e of Recreation, Physical and
h Education and Athletics, and,
' this, had been chairman for many

of the Department of Health, Phy-
Erlucation and Recreation, School
ucation at New York University.
executive of many national health,
ation, and education organizations,
lash had been president of the
ican Association for Health, Phy-
Education, and Recreation; chair-
I the department of school health
hysical education, National Edu-
Association; national chairman
.’sical education, the National Con-
of Parents and Teachers; and a
a r of the Joint Health Committee
National Education Association
merican Medical Association. Dr.
was one of the founders and later
sively secretary and president of
‘ merican Academy of Physical
Ition.
Nash was the author of some
1 books in the fields of physical
tion, health, and recreation. In
on he wrote numerous magazine

., edited professional magazines

ooks, and served on the Advisory

'il in connection with the problems

mmunity recreation under both

ents Hoover and Franklin D.

vclt.

ing 1953-54., Dr. Nash served as a

ght Professor in India, specializ-

teacher training for potential
educators and acting as an ad-

o the Indian Government.

Gift

   
   
   
  

   
 

   

.19 F 7
N“ ,1: 
‘ \-

 
     
    

     

  
  
 

' sMany \
“‘\
ders ” 7's «on? w
I" ,9,

 
     

l‘H-_
/

i ; THE UNITED WAY

man, 1965

 

The

 

IS

mussgsgm 9000

Nissen-Sico Tuck-Away tables are unmatched for perfect per-
Iormance and effortless portability. Ideal for schools, colleges,
Y.M.C.As and clubs. The non-reflecting surface of the 3A" high
density particle wood top offers a more uniform bounce and
stimulates better play. Nissen-Sico's exclusive "floating fold"
carries the entire table weight during folding and unfolding . . .
you merely guide it into place. The net conveniently folds up
with the table. When in use, rubber cushions on the two adjust-
able center legs keep the table firmly in place.

NISSEN CORP. 930 - 27th Ave. S.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52405
World's Largest Manufacturer of Gymnasium Apparatus

‘9. ~-

...v -

Every litter bit hurts
KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL

Don’t grown-ups know ‘2

DIFFERENCE

in TABLE
TENNIS
TABLES

    
   
   

./

New FREE Catalog

Ask for our new Lpago cat:
log describing the New Tuck-
Away 2100

-—u--__

 

-- mm in \a I.
...‘O I -

“I. g.....

wane .
room .
missrn .,., r

"-I—-—._

'-—__E

Published as a public service In c00peration with The Advertislng Council

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

459

 

NE‘W PUBLICATIONS

m -— '-.

Pantomime—The Silent Theater,
Douglas and Kari Hunt. Atheneum
Publishers, 162 East 62nd Street, New
YOrk 10016. Pp. 116, illustrated.
$3.50.

DRAMA leaders and drama enthusi-
asts will enjoy this simple and en-
gaging history of pantomime. The
account begins with “Charley Cro-Mag-
non” and his attempts to describe the
events of his day before he was able to
verbalize. From there the authors trace
it though ancient Indian rites and ritu-
als, into the great era of the Greek and
Roman drama, down into the Middle
Ages when it blossomed again in the
mystery and morality plays. The Com-
media dell’ Arte becomes reflected in
various characters in Shakespeare’s
plays, and, in turn, eventually becomes
changed into English pantomime, in
which famous mimes like Charlie Chap-
lin first received their training.

The development of clown acts, and
the work of famous clowns like Emmet
Kelly are part of the history of panto-
mime. Silent films gave actors like
Chaplin, Turpin, Lloyd, and Langdon
full scope for their talents. The panto-
mimes of Ernie Kovacs, Sid Caesar, and
Red Skelton came via TV. And as a
finale, the classic art of pantomime as
developed into the performances of
Marcel Marceau and others like Di-
mitre, Ophir, Guida, and the American
Lionel Shepard uses the “silent lan-
guage of the body to make satiric com-
ments on current affairs and to express
emotions too deep for words.”

A final chapter, “Try It Yourself,”
encourages the study of the art of pan-
omime. Except for this chapter, and
except for the wonderful photographs
and other illustrations of pantomime
down the ages, this book is background,
not instruction. It increases the under-
standing of pantomime as an art, and
points up the great value it has played
in man’s development.——-—V. M.

Reading Methods and Games for
Teaching the Retarded Child, Helene
L. Hunter. Know Publications, 799
Broadway, New York 10003. Pp. 64.
Spiralbound, $2.95.

DESIGNED to help teachers, parents
and volunteers to teach the re-
tarded child to read, this interesting
and practical manual is specifically a
workbook. It explains some of the
problems of the retarded child and sug-
gests ways to deal with the skill of read-
ing. The material was devised during

460

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 

East-West Handicrafts, Colon
Wyburd and Dorothy L. Furrell. B
gett Printing and Publishing, 2035
mar Boulevard, St. Louis 63103.
130, illustrated. $5.95. 1965.

ALL OF Us who do craft work ne
keep abreast of the times wit
new materials that are available
that will upgrade our programs
new ideas rather than stay in th
rut of the same things each year. “
some of the crafts discussed in this
include projects that cannot be do
a playground, leaders in hospitals,
ing homes, and other community
grams, as well as amateur craft

actual teaching of retarded children at
various age levels.

The handbook contains fifty games
and devices to teach the retarded child
to read. Sections are included on “How
to Teach What Words Mean,” “Playing
Games With Difficult Words,” “Teach-
ing Left and Right,” “Reading for
Trainable Children,” and “Making a
Daily Work Schedule.” The games in-
clude cutouts, matching words, picture
recognition, word recognition, and
sentence comprehension. Finally, the
material learned is included in a variety
of game situations. The handbook is
excellent and should be very helpful in
any program for the retarded—Morton

Thompson, Ed.D., National Recreation
Association Consulting Service on Rec-

reation for the Ill and Handicapped.

4 Seasons Party and Banquet Book,
Adelle Carlson. Boardman Press, 127
Ninth Avenue North, Nashville 3, Ten-
nessee. Pp. 192, illustrated. $3.75.
1965.

WELL-KNOWN in church social rec-
reation for many years, Mrs.
Carlson is now program consultant of
the Baptist Sunday School Board. Read-
ers may be familiar with some of her
earlier pamphlets, such as Parties, Ban-
quets, and Senior Adults.

Some of the games, quizzes, and
other recreation activities described in
the various socials, parties, showers,
banquets, et cetera in this book will not
be new to seasoned recreation leaders.
They are well chosen, however, to fit the
specific occasion and are described
simply and informally. Since the book
is designed primarily for church-spon-
sored occasions, Mrs. Carlson suggests
at the end of each a brief religious “mes-
sage” that can be used or not, as the
leader wishes.

Most of the plans (forty in all) are
easy to put into action and allow leeway
for individual variation and originality.
Two minor criticisms might be made.
In the plan for an outing for young
children, called “A Trip to the Woods,”
children are turned loose to gather
flowers and to collect them plus other
nature items in a shoebox. This is not
a very good way to emphasize conserv-
ation or to encourage the look, enjoy
but let-be attitude toward plant and ani-

mal life. Also, after a game period,
home-made ice-cream, and a trip home,
what wildflowers would— be alive to be
arranged by the child and taken home?

‘ ials (which are sometimes hard to

teachers, students, artists, et ceter
find this book inspiring. It is f
explanations and information on

 
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
      
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  

that would be helpful in any craft
besides those specifically describ
this book. The contents are so arra
that information one would wa
easily found.

There is an interesting guide on -
paper, information on lacquer and
lac, rubber molds, and types of pl
and many more guides that would
us to achieve better work. A secti
“Where to Buy” and the materials -
able is an excellent listing. Also
zines for the craftsmen—Mary B. l
Inings, Specialist Arts and Crafts.

IN BRIEF

THE BOOK or FESTIVAL HOLI
Marguerite Ickis. Dodd, Mead

Company, 432 Park Avenue ‘
New York 10016. Pp. 178, illust

$3.75. Here is a resource book 0
tory, customs, crafts, and other 111
of celebrating the principal festiv
idays, both religious and secular.
include a wide and fascinating v
including New Year’s Day, T
Night, Mardi Gras, Chinese New
winter carnivals, St. Valentine’
Patrick’s, Easter, a festival of do]
festival of kites, Rosh Hashana.
Kippur, Purim, Pesach, Han
April Fools’ Day, May Day, Hall
Thanksgiving, and Christmas. E
developed fully, and includes 16
traditions, ways of celebrating, t
music, ceremonials, et cetera. An
lent resource in the planning of h
celebrations and folk festivals. ( 
ers of RECREATION will be intere
know that this book is dedic
NRA’s Virginia Musselfnan.)

RECRF

Band Director's Guide, The, Kenneth L. Neidiq.

0K5 AND PAMPHLETS RECEIVED ggeggrce-Holl. Englewood Cliffs. NJ. Pp. BC '.

DANCE: The Golnsborough Glide, pp. 7,,paper

Only The Best

$1.00: The Waltz, pp. 7. paper, SI 2, The
i Veleto, pp. ‘1, paper. $1 25; Imperial Waltz, E u  P M E N T
5 AND CRAFTS pp. 7.. paper, W3.00; Royal Empress Tango, pp.
11, paper, 5100; Boston Two Step, pp. 1'. '5  Enou h
ulde/New York, A. L. Chonin. Harizan Press, paper, 512' The Mllitory Two Step, pp. , g
6 5th Ave., New York 10010. Pp. 319. $5.95 3%, €1.25:r Premier Trio Step, peg] 1715, poplar ‘
r I u . . ,' oa onga pp. Ii,paper ..-'Fy e
If3£313§i£°335i%%.'°§43§c%t5.551bi$1583 wen”: PP- 11. Da'per 31.2". All from Sport"
$5 to recreation leaders—~use your letterhead She'f' P'o' 3°” 534‘ New R°Ch°ue N" Y'
en ordering). Dance and Be Charming, RoniDen el. Scholastic
‘- Ancient Rome, The, Shirley Glubok. Harper B°°k sew'cesr E"9'°w°°d c'ms' ' 1' Pp‘ 1’
Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. Pp. 5-60.
- $3.95. Dancers You Should Knowd Saul Goodman. Leisure
ial Craftsmen and the Beginnings of Amerl- T'me 9308’“! 80-3513" 34' New ROChe'Ie' N'Y'
n Industry, Edwin Tunis. World Publ., 2231 PP- 5 « 099': 5 -J -

. 110th St., Cleveland, Ohio. Pp. 160. $5.95. Dark Valley, The, lployl, Louisa Rossiter Shat-
well. Friendship Press, 475 Riverside Dr., New

 

mparary American Painting and Sculpture M
1 iv. of Illinois Press, Urbano, 111. Pp. 210i 1’0“ '0027- PP- 40- P099“ 5-75-
per, $3.50. Drama as o Coreer, Eric Copan. Sportshelt, P.O.

Box 634, New Rochelle, NY. Pp. 127. $4.00.

s and Hobbies, Garry Winter, Editor. Arca
b|., 480 Lexington Ave., New York 10017. Dramatized Classics for Radio-Style Reading, M E R I  N

. 156. $2.95. Lewy Olfson. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington St., Bos-

‘- and Figure Corvin , E. J. Tongermon. to" '6. PP- 236- $4-00- _A —
Vel' Phler '30 VONCK 81-. New YOFK 10014- Favorite Spanish Folksongs, Elena Poz. Oak Publ. P P  D

.290. Paper. $1.85. 0 I65 w. 46th St., New York 10036. Pp. 96
,ngrrgsmalkzlgnginifraed Bsutleig. D. Van b.1405,- POPefr 52-45- PARK an d P | c" 'c'
' 0- 'exon er 1": rincelon. - - Folk Song Fest, James F. Leisy. Sam Fax Publ.
- '42- $4-50- 1841 Broadway, New York 10023. Pp. 68. Po~ P L  G R o u N D
AmeAicanPFLérl'nitzullg lDYo: Can SBui'lx‘ld, Ralph Der, $1.25. A N D S w I M M I N G
"35' "30 u " 0' Ave' '1 ew York Folk Songs of Europe, Maud Korpeles, Editor.
:3 P?- 1'2- 5250- h Oak Publ., 165 West 46th St., New York 10036 Po 0 L EQ u I P M E "T
ptmrmltglsgvsy Igggdgt Ste efggissibggcgtsgg- Pp. 183. Paper, $2.95. _ The wise choice of experienced
2 $3 95 ' " ' ' Foundations for Movement, Marc10 Borratt, Fay buyers for more than half a century
‘ ° ' '. . R. Biles, Virginia P. Harvey, Dolores Peter.
. ' A'mnimg 5? Ta" T01 Sh'm‘a- Lone BOOKS: Gwendol n D. Scott, Beverly L. Seidel, Glenna
nla Par , COllf. Pp. 100. Paper, $1.95. Roe Wimoms' wm_ c. Browgg 135:5 s'légcugt
To Decoration in the Earl American Man- St., Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 1 . piro un.
, .3 ~36... emwgm he... e m... $2.75. A M E R|CA N
"on ' t“ p' ' ' ' Guide to the Performing Arts—1963, S. Yancey
, kg:_TheYArrt1_on}drTechnigue ofngo1ponese Belknap, scarecrow Psres65,  oFigork Ave. S., PIAYGROUND DEVICE (0.
HM, as 10 1yamo. n1v. o as ington New York 10010, Pp, 5 _ . . .
55' smme 98'05' Pp' 65' 55'95' Handbook of the Theatre, A, Esme Crampton. W.  IONf'gij: :gdwzlagé
to Make Your Own Picture Frames, Ed Rein- J. Goge' I500 Birchmom Rd., Scarbomugh 4'

rdt and Hal Rogers. Watson-Guptill, 165 W. on,” Canada, pp_ 254, $4.50

‘ NAHMA MICHIGAN
m St" New York 10036. Pp. 127' $8.50. Happenings, Michael Kirby. E. P. Duttan, 201 ’

ctians in Handicrafts, Guy Wiiiioms. Spart- . . . In Michigan's Beautiful
If, RC. Box 634' New Rochelle, NY. Pp_ Park Ave. 5., New York 10003. Pp. 288. $6.95. and Historic Upper Peninsu'a

     

8. $4.25. Histoéypof thse _Theo(;§r, Thei,’ HonrgesiorsehMAorek

ctions to Young Artists, John Fithaurice 0" eter p'er' yssey ress‘ t ve”

Ils. Spartshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, New Y°"‘ “3003' PP- 45- 5-95-
. - PP- 1". $425. Hootenonny Tonight! James F. Leisy. Fowcett

r Mechanics Hondbook. Arca Publ., 219 Park PUPl-o Greenw'c": Conn- Pp- '92- $'50'
e. S., New Yark 10003. Pp. 144. $2.95. It's Song Time, Walter Ehret. Sam Fax Publ.,

9 o Miniature Hange' Guy R. WiIIiOmS' ox-  Broadway, New York  Pp. 

(:1 Univ. Press, 417 5th Ave., New York P099“ 51-10-
'5- PP- 96- $3.40. Journey towords Music, Victor Galloncz. E. P.

ing in Crafts, Edward L. Mattil. Prentice- Dunc” 20' Pork AVE- S-r New York 10003-

11. Englewood cum, N.J. Pp. 201. $5.75. Pp. 2353. $6.00.
I Making in Paper, Cardboard and Metal, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Lincoln
arge Aspden. Reinhold Publ., 430 Park Ave., Center, 1960 Broadway, New York 10023. Pp.

w Yark 10022. Pp. 88. $7.50. 121. Paper, $1.25.

rn Artists on Art, Robert L. Herbert Editor. L f C'f Ra blers son Book The Oak Publ.,
ntice-Holi, Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 149. os165 'vir. 46Th St., Near York, 10036. Pp. 256
95 (paper, $1.951. Paper, $4.50.
in for Pleasure, Henr Morgan. Sportshelf, Make_u The Drama”: Studener Appmoch

- 3°“ 534v New R°Che'rer N-Y- “192-3150- Chorlgs Thomas. Theatre Arts Books, 333 6th

1ng Free: Lines, Colors, and Shapes, Mickey Ave., New York 10014. Pp. 48. $2.00.

L  Pgogfrggsésqlso 3rd Ave" New Mitchell Trio Son Book, The, Quadrangle Books. y

' ' ' ' ' , 119 W. Lake t... Chicago 1. Pp. 144. Paper, ,

r Magheland PHow To Use it, Mildred An» 5295. . r " J
sfnidfampgn $43135.pork Ave' S" New Musical Instruments of Africa, Betty Warner Dietz ‘ ' '

and Michael Babatunde Olatunii. John  62

Sculpture (5th rev. ed..‘, Arthur Sodler. ‘
an Publ. 20 E. 46th St., New York 10017. W' 45'“ 5'" New Y°'k '0036‘ Pp' “5' 5‘ 9‘  I H 

144. $6.15. Opera Guide Gerhart Von Westermon. E. P. Dut-

rs of Modern Desi n, Nikolaus Pevsner. ton‘ 20' bork Ave' s" New York ‘0003 Pp  I 
guin Books 3300 C ipper Mill Rd., Bolti- 584’ 5750‘ A D
e, Md. Pp. 253. Poper, $1.45, PeKoering HAlrlts:33P50b\1Ae,ms42or:jd sPtrospNects, 
cs Projects ond Techniques, Alvin R. Loppin. c row" ' ' n " ew or I 
Knight and McKnight, Bloomington. lll. Pp. '0036' Pp' 258' POPer' 5"9—5'  H
. $4.00. Pla the Plectrum Guitar, lvor Moironts. Sport-
cal Guide to Holiday Cr Family Movies, The, 5 cm P'o' 80" 634' New Rochelle N'Y' Pp'  I U  ;
ekNTowEserri‘dhLeihsJure lTime];_’Bsoo$lc§.,71;.0. Box (4' $150
, ew ac e e. . . p. . . . Raoul Gelabert's Anatomy far the Dancer, Wil- o
ins Design and Fem, Gunner Sneum' Rein' “om Como. sportsman Pa 80,, (‘34, New ltfihould be . . . for leathercrelt is the craft
- ubl., 430 Park Ave., New York 10022. Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 57. $4.95. at teaches-manual dexterity, a true edu«
'25. $7.50. Scottish Donch‘g' c. W. Newmon-Sondcrs Sport.  aid     
n Crafting (rev. ed..1, Sylvia w. Howord. shelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle NY. Pp surgeons, screnlisls. engineers . . . and
ilggpPulgla, £13125Pork Ave. S.. New York 37. $2.75. artists too.
' - P- - - - Songs We Song, The Theodore Ra h. A S Barnes ' '
ecorotive Title-Po esg Alexander Nesbitt. 8 E. 36th St.. New'YOrk 10015. P 405 “31000  thoeurfutoapadmbinteg? ezftr;e:t:aerruan
3:;bgé llgo Vor'c "- New York '00'4- Soviet Donces Joan Lawson Leisure Time Back y p g t '- d T d get a
i - ° P.0. Box (.34, New Rochelle. N.Y Pp Po fame, 3" ,Y “Wes” 3'
3:: Dosllzglsauées, A, Flora Gill Jacobs.” Rand per, $3.75. WR'TE We “’1” 355151 Y0“-
‘ l4 _' $350. emm' Pork Ave" SKOK'e' m‘ Spirituol Folk-Songs of Early America, George TODAY

Pullen Jackson, Ed1t0r. Dover Publ.. ‘10 V0-
r1ck St., New York 100M. Pp. ‘44 Pacer

A:     TANDY LEATHER 1:0
I Teochers' Dance Hondbook, Krnderoorten to Sixth -

and Architect, Ste hen Jose , Editor. Year, 01 a K Ibtsk d
. of Toronto Press, aronto 5, nt. Cono- Bluebird Ubllghlrllg of” féoB‘roaLd S’lénNng: 1°01 Foch St" Dom" PR Pod worm Tom 76107
Pp. 118. $4.25. ark. N.J. Pp. 341 $6 50

 

MBER, 196.) When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ‘161

 

4162

he Ivmpic '
01131111110“ 

Anschutz
used by more 
smallbore medal 
winners than ‘
any other

  
   
 
   

At the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, all of
the six smallbore rifle medal winners I;
shot an Anschutz. 51 of 73 competitors ,3
in the prone match and 36 of 53 in the 
3-position match fired Anschutz rifles. 
The Match 54 also walked off with a g,;jj'j
major share of the honors at 850 
Paulo, Cairo, Moscow—at every recent fig}
international match. 
The reason is obvious; famous
Anschutz precision. unparalleled ac- ,,_
curacy that means higher scores. The 35;;
Match 54 action is satin—smooth, with 
a fully adjustable trigger and hand- 
lapped barrel. Model 1413, illustrated, iii-3'
with international type stock, wt. 151/2 
lbs. $275 (sights extra; with left-hand if
stock, $287). 
Same Match 54 action in prone model 
1411 (11 lbs.) or I S U position model 
1408 (10 lbs.) at $145 (less sights; 23;:
left-hand stock, $157). Prices subject 
to change. For free full-color catalog 
write Savage Arms,Westfie|d 155, Mass. 
01085. (A division of Emhart Corpora- 3;;
tion. Savage, Anschutz and the Indian 
head Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.)

 

 

When

Technique of the Revived Greek Dance, Ruby
Ginner. Leisure Time Books, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 103. $4.25.

SPORTS AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

ABC of Golf, An, John Stobbs. Sportshelf, P.O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 251. $6.75.

Adopted Physical Education (2nd ed.), Arthur
S. Doniels and Evelyn A. Davies. Horper and
Rov27,549 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. Pp. 547.
$7. .

Baseball Dope Book. The Sporting News, 2018
Washington Ave., St. Louis 63166. Pp. 190.
Paper, $1.00. '

Baseball Schools and Clinics. Amer. Amateur
Baseboll Congress, 115 West St., Battle Creek,
Mich. Pp. 24. $.65.

Basic Book Of Booting, A, Everett B. Morris.
Cornerstone Library, 630 5th Ave., New York
10020. Pp. 126. P0per, $1.00.

Batting Averages. Sporting News, 2018 Wash-
i$nlggc6n Ave., St. Louis, Mo. Pp. 252. Paper,

Billy Wright's Book of Soccer, No. '7. Sportshelf,
$402.5Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 128,

Competitive G mnastics, Nik Stuart. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 6 4, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 175.

$5.75.

Complete Beginner's Guide to Skin Diving, The,
Shaney Frey. Doubleday, 277 Park Ave. S.,
New York 10017. Pp. 116. $3.50.

Complete Book of Surfing, The, Peter L. Dixon.
Coword~McCann, 200 Madison Ave., New York
10016. Pp. 220. $5.50.

Determined to Win (football), George Eastham.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y..
Pp. 123. $4.50.

Environmental Health Practice in Recreational
Areas. US. Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, Washington, DC. 20201. Pp. 134.

$.55.

Executive's Handbook of the American Amateur
Baseball Congress, The, Amer. Amateur Base—-
ball Congress, 115 West St., Battle- Creek,
Mich. Pp. 50. Paper, $1.00.

Exercises for Better Golf, Jack Zanger. Thos.
Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New York 10017. Pp.
160. $4.95.

Field Archery ond Bowhunting, Arnold O. Hougen
and Harlan G. Metcalf. Ronald Press, 15 E.
26th St., New York 10010. Pp. 214. $5.50.

Fifth All Blacks, The, (rugby), J. B. G. Thomas.
Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 181. $5.75.

Fresh-Water Fishing Illustrated, Morie Morrison.
ganges Books, Menlo Park, Colif. Pp. 80. Paper,

Functional Human Anatomy, James E. Crouch.
Leo and Febiger, 600 S. Woshington Sq., Phila-
delphio 19106. Pp. 662. $9.50.

Fundamentals of Sports for Girls and Women.
Dorothy Humiston and Dorothy Michel. Ronald
gaegz, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10010. Pp. 209.

Game of Baseball, The, Sam ond Beryl Epstein.
Garrard Publ., 1607 N. Market St., Champaign,
|||. Pp. 96. $2.19.

Game Set and Match David Young, Editor. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box sé4, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp.
128. $3.75.

Golf Grove and Gay, Potrick Smartt. Sportshelf,
gSOiSBOX 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 160.

Greatest World Series Thrillers, Roy Robinson,
pp. 175,‘ Secrets of Big League Play, Robert
Smith, pp. 178,’ Great Baseball Pitchers, Jim
BrOSnan, pp. 183. Rondom House, 501. Madi-
son Ave., New York 10022. $1.95 eoch.

Gregory's Australian Guide to Sailing and Boot-
ing, Paul Hopkins. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 286. P0per, $3.50.

Guide to Physical Fitness, The, NFL. Random
Home, 457 Modison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 182. Paper, $1.95.

Guide to Water Polo, A, David Borr. Sportshelf,
$PISOéoBox 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 127.

Gymnastics for Women (rev. ed.), Blanche Jes-
sen Drury and Andreo Bodo Schmid. National
Press, 850 Honsen Woy, Palo Alto, Calif. Pp.
204. Spiralb0und, $3.25.

Handbook of Physical Fitness Activities, Donald
R. Casody, Donald F. Mopes, Louis E. Alley.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 10011.
Pp. 187. P0per, $3.95.

Healthier Living (2nd ed.), Justus J. Schifferes.
John Wiley, 605 3rd Ave., New York 10016.
Pp. 502. $7.95.

Hot Rod Handbook, The, Fred Horsley. J. Lowell
Pratt, 15 E. 48th St., New York 10017. Pp.
212. Paper, $.75. /

How to Get Good Medical Care,
Public Affairs Pomphlets, 381
New York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

Irvin Brock.
Park Ave. 5.,

writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
   
   
 
    
    
   
 
 
      
    
 
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
 
    
  
   
    
     
   
   
 
  
    
    
    
    
 
 

PhiloSOphy of Ph sical Education, Randol
Webster. Wm. . Brown Co., 135 S. Loc
Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 227. $4.50.

Physical Education Activities, Sports, and
(2nd ed.) Louis E. Means ond Harold K.
Wm. C. Brown, 135 S. Locust St., Du
Iowa. Pp. 228. Paper, $3.50.

Physical Education for Boys, Grades 7-12.
of Educotion of the City of New Yor
Livingston St. Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201. P
Spiralbound, $4.00.

Physical Education Handbook, Don Cash ‘
Irene A. Clayton, Howord C. Leibee an

Messersmith. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
NJ. Pp. 349. Paper, $3.95.

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

ADULT LEADERSHIP, September 1965
New Dimensions in Adult Education, '
Decker.
Of Graduate Students, Personality Clas
Responsible Deons, Clark S. Marlor, r

THE AMERICAN CITY, September 1965
European Parks Tao Formal, Rodney R
ing.
A Community for Scientists
N. Y.)

CHALLENGE, September—October 1965
The Other Side of the Poverty Proble
Caplovitz.
Can We Afford Our National Goals?
Keyserling and Gerhard Colm.

GIRL SCOUT LEADER, October 1965
Spotlight on Staging (public appea
Berenice E. Hess.

HOUSE BEAUTIFUL, October 1965
Put the Picture in its Proper Frame.

The Use of Croft Objects at Home.

HOUSE AND GARDEN, September 1965
Irresistible Games that Promote a Livel
, October 1965
The Care and Safekeeping of Masonry
The Beout of Brick.
How to To e Care of Brick.
Handsome Paving Patterns.

JOHPER, September 1965

“Recreation and a Changing World, 0.
ter and Clayne R. Jensen.

TheOComman Sense of Sport, Warren
gins.

Two New Institutes on Girls Sports, 50
Jernigan.

Planning Outdoor Learning Centers.

Cultural Understanding through Folk
Gladys Andrews.

NATIONAL 4-H NEWS, September 1965
Tips on Recreation Planning, G. A. Lin
and Glen 0. Thompson.

MUSIC EDUCATORS JOURNAL, Septembe
ber 1965
The Arts and the Individual, John Muell
The Arts Deserve Quality Leadership,
W. Landon.

More About Records, Don Cowon.

PARENTS' Magazine, October 1965
Quiet, Please (noise pollution), Paul N
The Art of Talking with Children, Hoim

ott, Ph.D.
How to Prepare a Community Code fo
Teens.

SATURDAY REVIEW, September 11, 1965
Education in America (supplement).
Taking the National Pulse, Henry M.
Poverty’s Neglected Battlefront, Jul

cover.
—-———, September 18, 1965
The New Front Page, John Hohenberg.
Why the Copyright Law Needs Revisi
Iiom Steif.

SCHOOL SAFETY, September-October 19
Safety in o Junkpile.
5 on a Bike, Groce Burkholder.
Put on o Painted Face (make-up).
What’s Up with Skateboards?
Build a Safety Villoge (craft project).

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, Se tember 13, 19
Still Waters Run Trout, elson Bryont.
Booktalk (rore sports books).
September ls Sweet in Sugarbush (of

in a ski resort).
The Celestial Hell of the Superfon,
Plimpton.
, September 27, 1965
Only the Game Remains the Same. (
materials for equipment and unl_fo
Sport Moves into the Plastic Age, LIz
———-——, October 4, 1965
A Two-Day Torture on Wheels (Nart
can bicycle championships), Harold '
Lively Lady with a Fishy Reputation'(s
pert Dr. Eugenie Clark), Coles PhInI

WOMAN'S DAY, October 1965
Pick-Your-Own Pumpkins.
Escape Routes to Contentment, Joyce
A New Challenge to Our Communities.
ing Day Care for Children, Hilda C
An eI-Fluffs, Savages and Dispensab
children’s books), John Ciordi.
Husmorsgymostiken.
Swedish Dancing for o
Judith Chose Churchill.
Noah's Ark (croft project).

(Sterling

“ti

1
1

Superb New

RECR

h - h you horse's!

Imagination and engineering built the 12:42
to Dodge City and all points west. It's tough
dependable Mexico Forge equipment. A
stagecoach that keeps these rough hom-
bres on the job day in and day out. Under
almost constant attack, in and out of bad
weather. and back and forth down the dusty
trail it travels. With little or no maintenance.
With complete safety. Indestructible.

Meanwhile, back east at Mexico Forge,
they're building more of the same . . .

 

all sorts of adventures for the kids on your
playground. See if there's one for you.
They're all in our 4-color catalog.

Write to Bill Kennedy

The Mexico Forge,lnc.
West Drive Reedsville, Pa.

   

 

Remember

Your support of the recreation and park movement can continue through the
years if you plan now. The thoughtful planning of your estate can enable you
and your heirs to retain control of your properties but also help to provide the
resources necessary to meet the free-time needs of future generations.

In your will you may bequeath a money legacy, a house or other real property,
articles of personal preperty, securities, et cetera, or the residue of your estate
to the National Recreation and Park Association (formerly the National Recrea-
tion Association). You may also designate the Association as beneficiary of life
insurance policies. For more information on bequests and the tax benelits avail-
able, write thc NRPA, National Development, 8 West Eighth Street, New York.
New York 10011.

The form below may also be adapted to the various kinds of bequests. Competent
legal counsel should be sought when making or changing a will.

I give, devise, and bequeath to the National Recreation and Park Association
(formerly the National Recreation Association), a corporation chartered by the
State of New York, and located in New York City, . . . . . . .

o n e e u e n I e o e I e e A - a A e e e u e t c a a a e e e I e I I e e e e \ e - ’ I e e e r I I q o a e e n . I -

(Insert here sum of money, portion of estate, or description of property)

or
the rest and residue of my estate which shall be used for such purposes as the

Association may designate.
You may also designate a specific department or project for which your con-

tribution shall be used.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

     
  

 

. .- . . . . .
(f: v’ “a .
a: . . , . . U, .-
3... " , ‘ ‘ I a .- .
'r. ., , I .
1". " f ' . " . :
3} x -' “ .-
I if " " - . . IL I I
 . . 1‘ {ad I
m- .-.- .v
" 3 .4....,,..,.. . I... ...._ __ ‘_. ___ N . a _, “I
, , , i . I ' _ rum...“ 4 «3..» .4 - .J _:_ _:_

 

These are physical education teachers.

They perform an important service in the
education of your boy or girl.

They deliver dividends on America’s
investment in learning

0 because they direct education
activities that help your child develop "
sound health and physical fitness.

Each child needs to be healthy and fit

0 to gain personal fulfillment

0 to make full use of his intellectual powers
0 to lead a productive, rewarding life.

America must have young people who
are sound of body and mind

. PRESIDENT’S
COUNCIL ON
PHYSICAL
FITNESS

 

.ese people mean
to y_o_u_1; chlldrenP

- ~Washington, D. C., for information.

. .‘l “hm-fr '

0 to maintain a vigorous, self-disciplined
society

0 to preserve the national security. r

The future belongs to the fit—to
those vigorous enough to live it and
shape it.

How About YOUR Schools? Do your
children have the benefit of teachers who
are well prepared in physical education?
Do your schools provide for each child a
daily period of instruction and I
participation-in vigorous activities? You
can help see that they do. Write the
President’s Council on Physical Fitness,

Look in on your children’s physical education
program when you visit your school during

WERICAN EDUCATION WEEK, Nov. 7-13.

