EC BET]

ONAL RECREAT'ON ASSOCIATION o  ' _‘ '(Hfg'.
t-"rv

 

 

 I l 'U (BRINKTUN)
E]

in SALES, VALUE and FUN!

   
  

r
l
t
. I
a

Fully BRINKTUN
recommended Fold-n-Roll
and endorsed -

by the Folds and rolls
USTTA for easy storage

The choice of champions . . . PLYBLEND playing surface

eliminates dead spots assuring 100% uniform bounce. Built
to stand up under heavy school and institutional play of be-
ginners or experts.

POOL TABLES

In a wide price and model range fea-
turing modern styling. stability and
rugged construction.

 

write for new catalogs

Brinklun, Inc :.:‘:::::::i':::...

0 New York . . . . . . . . . 200 Fifth Avenue

0 Chicago . . . . . . 826C Merchandise Mart

D'SPL" 0 Los Angeles . . . . , . , , 1637 w. 7th St.
ROOMS 0 San Francisco . . . . 1355 Market St.
0 Bellevue. Wash 10646 N.E. 8th

   

“rim-n writing tn nnr arivnrfiqprq 1'1]an mpnlinn Rpr‘nr-‘rrtnv

  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
     
    
    
    
    
   

$0 THEY MADE
Y0"
EDITOR?

TO HELP YOU

and your agency . . . public or private
put its image into print, we present an

ABC Manual
For Ne w [dito

Solve the mysteries of printing! Too often printed ma
must be put out by a staff person who, though trained
own profession, is untrained in the basic publishing tech
he needs. These are the techniques of editing and |
graphic arts. Here is a manual of the ABC’s of comm
torial and production practices and shortcuts which ca .
inate hours of ineffective work and costly mistakes.

56 pp.

NATIONAL RECREAIION AND PARK ASS
8 West Eighth Street. New York, N. Y.

 

 h-h you horses!

Imagination and engineering built the 12:
to Dodge City and all points west. It's tou
dependable Mexico Forge equipment.
stagecoach that keeps these rough ho
bres on the job day in and day out. Ur'i'd'
almost constant attack, in and out of b
weather. and back and forth down the du
trail it travels. With little or no maintenan
With complete safety. Indestructible.

: Meanwhile, back east at Mexico For
they're building more of the same . .

iet slides.

all sorts of adventures for the kids on y
playground. See if there’s one for you.
They're all in our 4-color catalog.

Write to Bill Kennedy.
The Mexico Forge, Inc.

West Drive Reedsville. Pa.

 

BER, 1965

 

. . . and on earth peace

to men of good will.

BIngiazinc
v

 

463

 

 

 

 

 

DECEMBER 1965 VOL. LVIII, NO. 10 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

Scene and Heard at the 47th National Recreation Congress . . . . . 467
Delegates heed plea to “Make No Little Plans”

A Widening of Horizons (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Susan Lee 473
A magazine changes with the needs of a new day

The Pixies in Eden Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dalton Battin 475
Seedcraft creatures decorate a Christmas tree

Parties That Ring Bells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ellen J. Lorenz Porter 477
A musical challenge for family and community groups

Festival of Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Russell Cimbel 479
Golden-agers stage Christmas scenes and tableaux

Song Leading Simplified . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Siebolt H. Frieswylc 480
A formula for recreation leaders untrained in music theory

Citizen Action for a More Beautiful America . . . . . . . . Leo Perlis 482
M an-made ugliness can be man-unmade

A College Serves the Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . fess Larez 485
New California legislation aids recreation programs

The Future in Retrospect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Myrtle F. Patterson 486
Recreation department celebrates its fiftieth anniversary

ADMINISTRATION

Remodeled and Pre-Engineered Centers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
The possibilities in old armories and flexible steel components

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491
Study for a shoreline state park in Connecticut

State and Local DeveIOpments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 492
Problems of waterways and waste materials

Concerning Upkeep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Walter F. Bruning 493
Multipurpose equipment for all seasons

PROGRAM

Social Dance: An Aid to Rehabilitation . . . . . . . Emanuel 1. Jacobs 494
N europsychiatric hospital expands recreation program

Before It Happens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496
The perils of outdoor bulb snatching

Adapt Sports for Special Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
Change rules to fit participants

Mo-Maids in the Swim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grace Ann Voss 499
University ballerinas stage aqua show

Piiiatas for Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betty Lois Eckgren 501
Paperbag craft for holiday fun

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 465 Reporters Notebook 466 As We Go To Press 471

People 483 New Publications 502 Market News 504

Resource Guide 505 Rx for the III and Handicapped 509

 

RECREAHON is‘published monthli, except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a serVIce organizatipn supported. y voluntary contributions, at 8 West 8th Street, New York, New
York 10011. is on file in public libraries and Is indexed in the Readers' Gulde and Book Revlew

Digest. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25. 1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York. under Act of March

3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of
October 3. 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University
Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor. Michigan.

 

DUCATTONAL The articles herein printed are

   
 

Copyright. 1965 by the ‘m
R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association. :3
I

Incorporated 0

a

5 5 0 c I AT l 0" not a statement of policy of the

A M E R l  National Recreation Association.

I
I
9....

Printed In the 

464

 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
  

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERCAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Prog
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business and Advertising M I
FRANK ROWE

On the Cover

The late afternoon sun cre
Star Of Bethlehem effect 0v
snows at Sun Valley, Idaho, .
ranger station at the sum
Baldy Mountain, graduate

area.

Next Month

A New Year and a New Ma
Readers of RECREATION Ma
will be receiving the grea
larged PARKS AND RECREATI
voice Of the new National "
tion and Park Association.
rance S. Rockefeller, presid
the new organization, will g'
philosophy and hopes for th
eXpanding age Of leisure a
will carry a “profile” story I
Rockefeller. The first issu
have an important Buyer’s G
aid you in the purchase of pa
recreation equipment and su
George B. Hartzog, J r., dir
the National Park Service, \
cuss the challenge Of leisu
from that time, more th
thousand years ago, when A
wrote, “When looms weave b
selves, man’s slavery will c
this modern day Of automati
take us into the future,
examine recreation into sp
the research being done to ‘
man’s need for apprOpriate
tion activities While on spac
and to determine what pa
types Of projects are feasib
Human Factors Laborato
Arm Division, VVestinghou
tric Corporation, in Baltim
made intensive study Of lei
tivities in a space vehicle.

Photo Credits

Page 479, Luke Black, Ne .
nal, Mansfield, Ohio; 482
New York City Housing A i
(bottom), Sterling Forest

REC

TFERS

iders Respond

would like to commend you on the
of readers who subscribe to your
azine. From the number of letters
ve received on two of my articles
you have published, I can sincere-
y that your readers are a truly in-
ted group of professionals. People
are willing to ask for additional
mation, add something to your
at knowledge, or even debate you
he type of individuals I enjoy shar-
iy ideas with.
ing a schoolteacher first and a rec-
r second, I hate to admit it but I
not received as much as one letter
ny of my articles in educational
als, whereas I am still receiving
from an article I wrote for RECRE-
V Magazine over a year ago. I only
your other contributors have been
rtunate as I in communicating
your readers and establishing con-
throughout the country.
LA SHAW, Elementary-School
acher and Part-Time Recreation

ader, Department of Recreation
d Parks, White Plains, N.Y.

s. Shaw's articles were “Art for
ment’s Sake," Recreation, Janu-
965 and “Stop Those Halloween
ws!" October l965.———Ed.

lprehensive Answer

ny thanks for [the] comprehen-
etter [from Donald V. Joyce of
Correspondence and Consultation
e] in reply to my seeking infor-
n for the Park and Recreation Di-
for the city of McAllen, Texas.
ml your information enormously
l, and I thoroughly appreciate the
nd trouble, expense and efiort to
you went to advise me so com-
nsively. The chances are I will be
' for material from time to time.
I will not impose too inadvertent-
n . . . your splendid stall.
KIKA) DE LA GARZA, U.S. Repre-

ative from 15th Congressional
trict, Texas.

gasque Exchange

h summer the Pleasant Hill Rec-
1 and Park District sponsors a
N Olympics program for all of the
a ound children. Each of the eight
ounds in the district chooses a
'y to represent during Junior
1 ics week. Last summer Brook-

0 Playground chose Monaco, and

v A BER, 1965

the children from that playground
thought that it would be a good idea to
write a letter to Princess Grace and
Prince lianier to let them know of their
choice. . . . [The district received a re-
ply] from Monaco. It read:

“It was most gratifying to the Prin-
cess and myself to receive your nice let-
ter of July 15, 1965 and we take partic-
ular pleasure in congratulating you
most warmly.

“It is hoped that you will like the

enclosed key rings, Monegasque post-
age stamps, illustrated brochures de-
scribing Monegasque postage stamps,
illustrated brochures describing Mona-
co, photographs of my family and cara-
biniers. t

“Please accept our best wishes for
the activity of your group and for the
fullest possible success of your perform-
ance in the Junior Olympics Meet.
[signed] Sincerely, lianier Prince de
Monaco.”

ARTHUR KUZNIEWSKI, Supervisor,

Pleasant Hill Recreation and Park

District, Pleasant Hill, California.

 

OUR MEN IN CALIFORNIA

   
  

The pool — Sunnyvale Swim Center,
where William B. Blouse

and John Shields, Coin-Lok‘s California
sales representatives, earn this plaudit:

California . . .

Space, Sanitation . . .
Better With Coin-Lek

"Our Coin-Lok Locker installation is far
Superior in sanitation and space require-
ments to the wire basket checking facility

it replaced.

"With Coin-Lok we handle more pe0ple
more quickly in a substantially smaller
area. Installed in dressing rooms adjacent
to our swimming pool, your Coin-Lok
Lockers are subject to constant moisture.
Yet after nearly two years their color,
appearance and ease of operation remain

unaffected.”
Richard Milkovich
Director of Parks and Recreation
COIN-LOK

SYSTEMS, INC.

AMERICAN LOCKER COMPANY. lNC.
SUBSIDIARIES OF AVM CORPORATION

 
 
    

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.

Dept. 108. Jones a. Gifford Avenue
P.0. Box 1000. Jamestown. N.Y.

        
   
 

    

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Name ......................................... ..
Address ....................................... ..

n n a n a n n o o o n g n . . a a o n n n I I o n I I n n n g n n n n n a n n n a . . Q g o g g g .-

City ....................................... ..Zone .... ..State ................................... ._

play it cool at the pool

Jerry Hughes, Superintendent of Recreation, and
Richard Milkovlch, Port: and RecreatiOn Director
for Sunnyvale, Calif, discuss their 268 Coin-lat:
locker installation with William B. Blowe . . .
"Our Man on the Job”.

Write for new Coin-Lek
Catalogue!

«Illi

a! Without obligation please send me
New new Coin-Lek Catalogue.

  
  

465

REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK '

“'d

Peace Tree

THE Apache Indians are providing
the National Community Christmas
tree for 1965 to be erected in the Ellipse,
just south of the White House. This gift
to the nation from the White Mountain
Apache Indians from the Fort Apache
Reservation near White River, Arizona,
according to Secretary of the Interior,
Stewart Udall, not only marks the first
time an American Indian Tribal Coun-
cil has provided a Christmas tree for the
Pageant of Peace ceremony, but it is
also the first tree from the state of
Arizona to be used in the pageant.

The tree was selected by Lester Oliver,
chairman of the White Mountain
Apache Tribal Council, from three
specimens of Engelmann and Colorado
blue spruce. These majestic trees tower
to heights of sixty or more feet on the
higher elevations—about eight thou«
sand feet—in the 1,600,000-acre Apache
reservation. Following its erection on
the Ellipse, the tree will be decorated

 

 
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
       
 
       
    
  

Save
Time
and

Money!

 
 

Leased FREE!

 

 

:AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA:
4 b
: ENDEAN lL©lR2E ;
4 r Y oanrTs-Klrs-LIHRAIURE p
4 - suerues - cosrunes - PRINTS b
4 Authentic and comnlete for beginners >
4 and experts. Shipped immediately. >
1 I I Since l927/Post: New York City :
‘ ‘ Museum: Monroe. N. Y. >
4 PLUME TRADING co. >
1 m 220, box 585, Monroe, N. Y. , t
< FREE... Send for finest catalog and >
‘ x price list. :
4 Name

4 I A... >
‘ ['85: >
: ‘ cm State >

4-66

b
VV V‘F’VVVVYVVVVVVVVVVVVVVYVV

 

with thousands Of colored bulbs and
ornaments by National Park Service
personnel.

The National Community Christmas
tree ceremony has been an annual event
in Washington since 1923. In 1954, the
Christmas Pageant of Peace, Inc. was
organized and the scope of the Na-
tional Community Christmas tree cere-
mony was expanded tO emphasize the
desire of this nation and other nations
to find peace through the spirit and
meaning of Christmas. The President’s
Christmas message, given at the tree
lighting ceremony, is broadcast across
the nation, and by the Voice of America
to the remote areas Of the world.

Campaign for Miller Hill

RESTORATION of one of the principal
- battlegrounds of the Revolutionary

War, Miller Hill in White Plains, New

York, has been a major project of the
County of Westchester Department of
Parks, Recreation, and Conservation.

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing Out balls and poying top prices
for low quality balls. Install this ottractive,
cost-cutting TFT Tobie Tennis Ball Meter
NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies on
$10.00 deposit subject to refund. Trouble-
free operation assured —return machine
for FREE repair. AlfrOctiVe hard wood and
metol cabinet—7V2 x 81/2 2: 15 inches high.
Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—dispenses
each for 10c. Choice of 3 grodes HALEX
quality balls. Use profit to mointain and
replace poddles, nets, etc. No risk guaron-
tee. Send for free folder: “Stop Wasting
Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK & CO., INC.

DEPT. 51

SHENANDOAH, PENNA. 17976

_——

SPORTS PROGRAMS
ACCIDENT COVERAGE

For sports team insurance to
protect your basketball. foot-
ball. and ice hockey teams.

write to

NATIONAL
RECREATION and PARK
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street, Newaork. N.Y. 10011

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

The Battle of White Plains Mon

Committee, which has long strug
preserve the area’s historic land
cooperated in the project. The si
cleared to provide an unobst
View of the former battle area, .
aluminum plaque mounted on a p
was placed so that visitors might
be able to identify the terrain.

Restored were the earthworks
replica of the original stone wall
General Washington’s soldiers 11
protection during the shelling.
cannons were also replaced al
other memorabilia Of the perio
failure by the British to take
Hill, in which Washington’s troo
firmly entrenched, ended the B
White Plains, one of the major
eastern campaigns of the Revolu

War.

Hooligans in Moscow
Moscow’s parks and stadiu

becoming havens for d
according tO a recent article
Evening Moscow. The article sa
empty bottles were seen clutter'
park lanes, while “hooligans” w
served coming to the stadium i
Spare time to finish off their aft
or evening drinking. The article
park directors for failing to k
drinkers out; however, it report
director as saying: “What can I l
I say anything, they only beat
or throw bottles at me.” The net
advocated beginning a big ca
against drinking and drunken
parks and stadiums.

Land Between the Lak
A STRETCH of land in weste

tucky and Tennessee, fort
long and six to nine miles wi
attracted national attention as I
ment proceeds on this “cafet
outdoor opportunities,” the L
tween the Lakes National Be
Area. Bounded by Kentucky an
icy Lakes, the Land Between
area is being built and manage
Tennessee Valley Authority an
completion, will incorporate 1,
acres, including the two gigant
the Between the Lakes territ

adjoining wildlife preserves.
The area is located within
Continued on P

RE

 

GENE

and

1 HEARD

at the

th National Recreation Congress

inneapolis, Minnesota, October 1965

[-13 Minnesota Twins won two games over the Dodgers
in the World Series in Minneapolis while the 47th
National Recreation Congress was in session, thus

ing some exciting competition for the delegates’ at-

1. With pennants Hying, the headquarters hotel teemed
mixture of recreators, park administrators and com-
ners, board members, Congress guests—AND with
yers and their guests, families, girl friends, and good
5 from Kalamazoo, Oshkosh, and other points West
st. Souvenir sellers and souvenir collectors, photog-
, and members of the press vied for space with dele-
nd baseball fans in the milling throng in the lobby.
reports on Congress attendance total over twenty-one
no persons.
rite of this general stampede, however, recreator found
or, park man found park man, staff found staff, and
found friend. Because of the emergency crowds, the
'ational Recreation Congress exhibits and meeting
were transferred, with only few exceptions, to the
built and just opened Municipal Auditorium two
away. In spite of groans at the transfer, the settling-
d proved this building to be spacious and adequate;

found to their surprise that they were happy there.
)ecial thanks should be extended to the exhibitors of
ion equipment and other products for accepting the
with such good grace. We heard no complaints.
t up an attractive exhibit with elbow room to spare.
le assistance was given by our hosts, members of the
ota Recreation and Parks Association. Again, our

everybody got sorted out, the Congress swung into

ned program and turned out to be very successful.
ms in evidence this year, more than it has been for a

1c. The Minneapolis Police Band gave it a melodious

r the opening session on Sunday evening, and delight-
. s tions by the Richfield Chorus at the closing session

3-. ER, 1965

sent delegates home to the accompaniment of haunting
strains of melody ringing in their ears. We h0pe there will
be more of this next year!

The National Recreation Congress was cosponsored this
year by the National Recreation Association and the Ameri-
can Recreation Society for the last time. In 1966 it will be
sponsored by the newly formed National Recreation and
Park Association and, if all goes as planned, it will be held in
Washington, DC. (Watch the new PARKS AND RECREATION
—the consolidated magazine—for announcements.) The
Congress in Minneapolis was cosponsored in cooperation
with the Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners, the
Minnesota Recreation and Park Association, and the Fed-
eration of National Professional Organizations for Recrea-
tion.

HIGHLIGHTS

General Sessions

CONGRESS chairman Joseph Prendergast, executive direc-
tor of the National Recreation Association and execu-
tive vicespresident of the National Recreation and Park As-
sociation chaired the Opening session. Among his intro-
ductory remarks, he explained the source and read the full
text of the Congress theme, “Make No Little Plans.” It was
written by Daniel H. Burnham who played a leading role in
the planning of the Chicago Park District in 1906. The en-
tire quotation reads as follows:

“Make no little plans; they have no magic to stir men’s
blood and probably themselves will not be realized. Make
big plans; aim high in hope and work, remembering that a
noble, logical diagram once recorded will never die, but, long
after we are gone, will be a living thing, asserting itself in
ever-growing consistency. Remember that our sons and
grandsons are going to do things that would stagger us. Let
your watchword be order, and your beacon beauty.”

The Congress sessions that followed enlarged on the idea

467

 
  
  
  
    

The Opt- ,5. the
qur' ' . . the .Minne-
‘ .45 .lquatennial,

- .cda Kleinert, cuts
ribbon to open the
Congress Exhibit
Area.

The delegates soon realized that this was, indeec
time to “Make No Little Plans,” as they listenee
the reports on the merger of leading recreatx
and park organizations into the National Reel-
tion and Park Association and really grasped!
many implications and ramifications. They a
listened to the aid and programs now being oil'ex
by many federal agencies to expand state and 1d
recreation opportunities in this era of ever-I
panding leisure time.

-
w ’ '““""".:‘”f.:i:a:m ’-. .7 V.

.More than a hundred
manufacturers had displays in
new Convention Hall exhibit area.

Famed football coach, Bud Wilkinson,
addressed the delegates on
“Recreation’s Role in Lifetime Sparts.”

T  A  A I. W'mg"::m?€"f {.7 *1“;  ,g & .‘ ‘  I i W
i   I  g3?  ‘2 . i"  r . ;

z. 
1; 

     
    

    

 

the recreation field and, in particular, for his many 6 .
to cement the merger of organizations that form th
tional Recreation and Park Association. Here, he receiEl
special certificate of appreciation at the National R
,tion Association luncheon. Seen with Dr. Gulick are Mrs '

Gallagher of Omaha and the Rev. Warren 0st of New

468 RECRE .

Dr. Reuben Youngdahl,

famed pastor of

.Mt. Oliret Lutheran

Church

in Minneapolis,

addressed both the
opening mud closing

An unexpected guest.
Vice-President Hubert
ll. Humphrey dropped

' in during Congress

gates th ranged
. 'ng general session
ear Bud Wilkinson

Dr. Youngdahl.

Inlormal smorgasbord
and dance replaced

EMBER, 1965

the customary
banquet this year.

smorgasbord evening
and addressed the
delegates in
impromptu fashion.

general sessions.

 

of looking ahead, and having the courage to try new ideas,
broader concepts, larger goals.

Mreages from government leaders and from other or-
ganizations were read by Mr. Prendergast, among them, one
from President Lyndon B. Johnson and another from Vice-
President Hubert H. Humphrey. The President’s message
said:

“Beneficial use of leisure time can bring immeasurable
improvement in the quality of life in our society. I am
pleased, therefore, to extend greetings to delegates of the
National Recreation Congress. Those who participate in the
fine programs of the Congress have my warm gratitude and
sincere good wishes.” .

Among other messages were ones from the governor of
Minnesota, the governor of Nevada, the National Recreation
Association of Japan, the president of the National Council
of Camp Fire Girls.

Dr. Reuben K. Youngdahl, pastor of one of the twelve
greatest churches of America, the Mt. Olivet Lutheran
Church in Minneapolis, and well-known speaker, greeted
Congress delegates at the opening general session, and ad-
dressed them again at the closing session, with two stimu-
lating talks. The first was on the topic, “Make No Little
Plans,” and the second on, “The Possible You.” He pointed
out that this is a time of choices—a world at peace or a
world in pieces, that we must dare to dream and make our
dreams come true, for time is running out. “It is better to
light a candle than to rail at the dark,” he said, and he gave
a recipe: “Take a look at what you are—a personality—and
at the amount of light you are to produce . . . be brave to
dare, not afraid to fail.”

Another outstanding Congress speaker was Bud Wilkin-
son, president of Lifetime Sports Foundation in Washing-
ton, D.C., and special consultant to President Kennedy on
the National Physical Fitness Program, who spoke to a
packed house at the closing session. “Our society has been
very successful in eliminating activity and creating a physi-
cal void,” he said, “but whether we like it or not, we are
physical beings as well as mental and intellectual beings.”
And he recommended exercise if we are to function well as
individuals and have a reasonable degree of muscle tone and
cardiovascular fitness. He spoke of a book called Excellence
by John Gardner, the new Secretary of Health, Education
and Welfare, as one of the finest books he has read on this
subject. He also quoted Dr. Will Menninger of the Men-
ninger Foundation on the “necessity of play.” Dr. Will
holds that an effective community recreation program is
just as important to mental health as sanitation is to physi-
cal health, and that too many people do not know how to
play. [The italics are ours.—Ed.]

The New Organization

EAGERNESS for details about the merger of leading na-

tional park and recreation organizations to form the
National Recreation and Park Association was evident from
the very beginning. This was satisfied to some extent at the
first session on Monday morning when the status of the
merger and how it would affect the delegates was explained
and their questions answered. This session was chaired by

{170

 

Ralph Wilson, recreation specialist, US. Department
Agriculture, and chairman of the Congress Program Pl
ning Committee. Sharing the platform were Sanger Rol

son, vice-chairman of the NRPA Board of Directors; 2
Luther Gulick, vice-president and chairman of the NR
Board of Directors; Frank Vaydik, chairman of the NR
Board of Governors; and present to answer questions w
Joseph Prendergast, executive director of NRA and exe
tive vice-president of NRPA; Alfred B. LaGasse, execut
director of the American Institute of Park Executives 3
executive director and general manager of NRPA; F
Butler, executive secretary of ABS; and Don B. Alexand
executive director of the National Conference on St

Parks.
Laurance S. Rockefeller, NRPA president, and Jan

Evans, chairman of NRPA’s overall Board of Trustees, c01
not be present; but Mr. Robinson read Mr. Evans’ paper
which he called the N RPA “the fulfillment of a dream.” 3
Evans paid tribute to the leaders who had worked so 1
ceasingly to bring about the merger, with special tribute
Dr. Gulick who has been acting in a consultant capacity a
to whom he referred as “consultant to merging nations 3
established states,” and about whom he said, “Whenever ’

dream became an obscurity, be [Dr. Gulick] would make
clear again.”

Dr. Gulick was the next speaker, and he talked about '
lay side of this new program. “We are blazing a new traf
he said, “where the initial programing, planning, analys
leadership, advice to politicians who come asking questi!
will be a single matured voice reflecting both the knowlef'
of the professionals and the keen devotion to recreationi
the informed lay leadership. The unity at which we h‘if
now arrived stands firmly thus, on two good feet.” '}

Mr. Vaydik followed and spoke of the wealth of talgl
and leadership now amassed in the new organization 3|
of the challenges that face it. “We must face the challer‘}
of our times by providing competent, efficient, imaginatii}

d o I o o  h 0d ..
an creative SCI‘VICC to our Citizens, e sai . .I

The climax of the morning came during the question 3
answer period, however, when a voice from the balcony .
dressed the chair: “In America one of the measures of gre
ness is tremendous impact on the stock market. If we are
big as we claim to be, has this merger had any effect on
stock market and have the public relations people ta

advantage of this impact to tell the American people wha
potent force we are?”

   
    
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  

Mr. Prendergast answered this question. He said, “I
swering this somewhat facetiously, as it was asked, I woi
say that the low point of the stock market was last spri:
and it’s been going up ever since. Secondly, I seriously:
call to your attention the fact that the recreation budget
the United States is now running at the rate of forty billf

dollars a year; and the old proverbial answer is, ‘You a
seen nothin’ yet.’

“The strength of the whole recreation and park move
must be concerned with the enrichment and the fulfill‘ ‘
of American life. As Frank Vaydik has said, we wan.
beautiful America; but we want not only a beautiful1
I' - r

C ontmued on Page .

RECREAT}
H.

  
  
 
   
    
   
  
    
  
   
     
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
     
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   

as FEDERAL GOVERNMENT is going
full speed ahead in disbursing funds
park and recreation projects. The
a wing developments are noteworthy:

l welve states have established their
ibility for a total of $28,000,000 in
hing federal grants for acquisition
development of state and local out-

recreation areas and facilities.
11 of these states has submitted com-
' ensive outdoor recreation plans
0 uate for initial qualification for the
d and Water Conservation Fund
ram and are the first states to be-
. eligible for full participation in
program. The states are California.
ecticut, Indiana, Louisiana, Mis-
i. Nebraska, New Hampshire, New
k, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and
de Island. They may now apply for
Ms for fifty percent of the cost of
iring and developing state, county,
, and other public outdoor recrea-
v areas that are in accord with the
’5 plan. Edward C. Crafts, director
e Bureau of Outdoor Recreation,
ch administers the program, said
most of the remaining state plans
well along toward completion and
twenty to hventy-five additional
5 are expected to qualify for the
ram by the end of the year.

he new US. Administration on
g is offering state allotments total-
' 05,000,000 available this fiscal year
development of state and communi-

ograms and services to older people
‘ the provisions of the Older
erieans Act. The granting of an
1 meat is contingent upon submission
. comprehensive state plan and the
nation by the governor of a single
- agency to administer or supervise
use of the federal funds. To date,
y-seven governors have named such
agency. The amount of each state’s
l ment is made up of a flat minimum
, an additional sum based on the
her of its citizens sixty-five years
e and over in relation to the total
y-five-plus population of the nation.
state may use its allotment to
,. gthen, extend, and coordinate state
vities in aging and to make grants
ocal government agencies and non-
t voluntary organizations for com-
ity programs and services. Local
jects, for which such grants could
used, include development of com-
itywide programs of health, social
ices, employment, recreation, and
cation for older people; stalling and
tion of multipurpose activity cen-
; development of retirement prep-
ion courses; professional training

EMBER, 1965

WE GO TO PRESS

DAW'N OF A NEW MAGAZINE

THE NEW YEAR that dawns in January 1966 will bring you the first tangible
evidence of the merging of the five leading national recreation and park
organizations—the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquari-
ums, the American Institute of Park Executives, the American Recreation
Society, the National Conference on State Parks, and the National Recre-
ation Association—in the form of the new PARKS AND RECREATION Magazine.
This will be a continuation of RECREATION Magazine but in new form—--a
bigger, better magazine. When you receive it, you will hold in your hands
a symbol of the united front with which these organizations will face the era
that lies ahead. As James Evans, chairman of the NRPA overall Board of
Trustees told delegates at the National Recreation Congress in Minneapolis.
“The NRPA is the fulfillment of a dream . . . The need for unity of action is

grave. You can be proud of what you’ve accomplished, but this is just the

beginning.”

Check each issue of the new magazine as it comes to you for important
announcements, reports, and news from, and about, the National Recreation
and Park Association. Every alert professional and concerned volunteer
will want to watch the growth of the new organization and this will be re-
flected in your monthly magazine. You will want to help your new magazine

by sending in suggestions. ideas, materials for it. Action is the watc

of the new day!

word

The location of the editorial ofiices of PARKS AND RECREATION will be
announced as soon as possible. The January issue will carry the new addrm.

for persons working with older people;
and staffing information, counseling,
and referral centers. '

b The Advisory Board on National
Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings and
Monuments recently took positive ac-
tion on four resolutions recommending
new areas for inclusion in the National
Park System. Areas recommended are
the Voyageurs National Park in Min-
nesota; the Saint Croix National Scenic
Riverway in Minnesota and Wisconsin;
the George Rogers Clark National His-
torical Park in Vincennes, Indiana; and
the Pennsylvania Avenue National His-

toric Site in Washington, D.C.

} Recommendations regarding estab-
lishment of a Redwoods National Park
will be made to President Johnson for
his consideration before the first of the
year. Secretary of the Interior Stewart
L. Udall has announced that final meet-
ings on the redwoods in November in-
cluded consultation with officials of the
state of California, members of the Con-
gressional delegation from California,
conservation organizations, the timber
industry and other landowners. Del
Norte and Humboldt Counties, Cali-
fornia, were the counties where the
principal groves of redwoods recom-
mended for preservation were identi-
fied in a year-long study of the Red-
woods of California by the National
Park Service under a grant from the
National Geographic Society. The See-

retary and members of his staff have
had a number of meetings during the
past year with groups interested in a
proposed Redwoods National Park. It
had been hoped that a final recommen-
dation would be completed before now.
However, the numbers of proposals sub
mitted and the difficult and complex
issues involved in establishing the Red-
woods t'ational Park have delayed the
report beyond the time when Congres-
sional action could be taken on any
proposals this year.

) Bertram C. Roberts has been named
as the first superintendent for the re-
cently authorized Assateague Island
National Seashore, Maryland-Virginia.
Mr. Roberts has set up a temporary
headquarters in Snow Hill, Maryland.

) Milton A. Pilcher has been appointed
head of the Division of Federal Pro-
grams Review in the Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation. The division is responsible
for reviewing and coordinating federal
outdoor recreation programs. promot-
ing uniformity among U.S. Government
agencies, and providing servicm to the
Recreation Advisory Council. More
than forty federal agencies have pro-
grams in outdoor recreation.

STATES have also been active in parks

and recreation:

) Charles II. Odegaard, director of the
Washington State Parks and Recreation

471

Commission, reports that two recent
actions in the state have already made
an important impact upon outdoor rec-
reation in Washington State. The State
Parks Department, coordinator of the
statewide Outdoor Recreation and Open
Space Plan, was requested by the state’s
Interagency Committee to disburse not
only the Federal Land and Water Con-
servation Funds but also monies pro-
vided through a state bond issue and a
marine initiative. Such a plan was sub-
mitted and was accepted in October by
the Interagency Committee. The final
plan will be submitted in December.

As a result, the interagency has made
allocations of half of the anticipated
1965-1966 iiscal year revenues to the
state agencies and the other half to
local agencies. At the October meeting
the Interagency Committee made the
following allocations: Washington State
Parks and Recreation Commission,
$630,000; State Game Department,
$420,000; Natural Resources, $140,-
000; Department of Fisheries, $70,000;
and $140,000 for contingencies. So far
state parks has requested that its alloca-
tion be used for acquisition of three
new parks and added developments in
three others.

) Fred L. Jones, director of the Cali-

fornia Department of Parks and Rec-
reation recently presented an accele-
rated development program for the state
park system to the State Park Commis-
sion. Director Jones’ report highlighted
the State Park System as it is today and
the progress of the recent acquisition
programs—the $19,000,000 acquisition
program approved by the Legislature in
1963 and the first phase of the State

Beach, Park, Recreation and Historical

Facilities Bond Act of 1964 approved
by the Legislature in 1965. The devel-
opment of the State Park System should
be phased over a twenty-year period
and would provide the following addi-
tional public-use facilities: 23,000
camp units; 30,000 picnic units; 55,000
parking spaces; 211 boat launching
ramps; and other related facilities.

} In Iowa, a million-dollar bond issue
for a cooperative park development
project by the city of Cedar Rapids,
Linn County, and the adjoining city of
Marion was approved by voters on No-
vember 2 by a seventy-five percent
majority.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

) A SAFE CHRISTMAS. A complete line
of materials to promote fire safety at
Christmas is now available from the
National Fire Protection Association.
Tips on Christmas tree care are featured
on a colorful new Sparky poster which
is both attractive and educational. It

472

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Two TRAVELING exhibits of art
and handcrafts will criss-cross
the country during 1966. Many of
your clubs and groups may like to
plan special tours or excursions when
the exhibits are in your area.
Regional exhibitions of Craftsmen

U.S.A. 1966 will be shown in:

Portland, Oregon, Feb. 26-April 2,
Oregon Ceramic Studio.

Los Angeles, March 16-May 1, Los
Angeles County Museum of Art.

Milwaukee, Jan. 13-Feb. 13, Mil-

waukee Art Center.

Dallas, Feb. 16-March 20, Dallas
Museum of Fine Arts.

Wilmington, Delaware, March 11 -
April 3, Delaware Art Center.

Raleigh, North Carolina, March
24-April 24, North Carolina Mu-

seum of Art.

Showings of the Johnson Art Col-
lection for 1966 will be in:

Omaha, Nebraska, Jan. 28-Feb.
20, J oslyn Art Museum.

Denver, March 4-27, Denver Art

Museum.

Seattle, April 8-May 1, Seattle Art
Museum.

San Francisco, M ay 13-]une 5, Cal-
ifornia Palace of the Legion of
Honor.

San Diego, June 17-July 10, Fine
Arts Gallery of San Diego.

Fort Worth, Texas, July 22-A ug.
I 4, Fort Worth Art Center.

Des Moines, Iowa, Sept. 1-20, Des
Moines Art Center.

Nashville, Tennessee, Sept. 30-
Oct. 23, Tennessee Fine Arts Center.

Birmingham, Alabama, Nov. 4-
23, Birmingham Museum of Arts.

Toronto, Canada, December, Art
Gallery of Toronto.

 

is effective for display in a wide range
of places, from recreation centers,
school classrooms and churches to plant
and ofiice bulletin boards. “A Holiday
Message to You” is a folder describing
in detail the safe handling of Christmas
trees, precautions about lights and de-
corations, the disposal of wrappings,
and even the selection of toys. For the
children there is a Christmas tree color-
ing card which includes a “pledge” for
the child to keep the tre well supplied
with water and to guard; it from sparks

 

 

and flames while it is standing in t
home. After it is colored, the card m:"
be hung on the tree as an ornament. F 1
samples and quantity prices on the
materials, write the Public Relation
Department, National Fire Protectit

Association, 60 Batterymarch Strec
Boston, Massachusetts 02110.

) KITS of helpful health education m
terial of particular interest to recreat

leaders have been prepared by the i\
tional Dairy Council. The kits coma,
suggestion for programs for the folle
ing groups: Kit No. 1, Charm Clam
for Girls; No. 2, Esquire Clubs 11
Boys; No. 3, Trim and Slim Clubs 1
Women; N o. 4, Fifty Plus Fitness Clull.
and No. 5, Picnics. The kits at 5.5
each are available from the Nation
Dairy Council, 111 North Canal Strqe
Chicago 60606. 1]

} OVERSIGHT. The material on
Maryland Recreation Society’s schoh
ship program which appeared in RECB
ATION in November was Submitted ll
Saul M. Honigsberg, district Superviso'
Montgomery County Department h
Recreation, Rockville, Maryland.

 

} FIVE COLORED MARKERS, each diSt‘l'
tively shaped, will indicate degreel
diHiculty on North American ski tr I
While the signs will be used nationa

they indicate conditions relative t
local area. The new signs, endorsed
the National Ski Areas Associat'
should aid skiers in selecting t
commensurate with their skill level. |

  
   
     
    
 
 

MORE DIFFIC
WE‘wa

MOST D! F FIQJLT
BLUE

CLOSED ‘AVALANCHE AREA
ORA/V05

Races-

EDITORIAL

 

A WIDENING OF HORIZONS

SUSAN LEE

 

HIS MONTH, December 1965, RECREATION Magazine brings
you news not of an end but of a new beginning in a long proud
history of publication—a history which started with the first
issue of The Playground, in April 1907, just one year after the
birth of The Playground Association of America in Washington,

DC.

From its earliest beginnings as a small but pioneering
journal of sixteen pages, the magazine gradually grew and
changed both in content and size, changing its name along
with its format, to Playground and Recreation in 1930 and
the following year to RECREATION (remember the blue cover
of those middle years?) till in 1948 it adopted its modern
decor, with a different pictorial cover for each issue.

It is significant, I think, that through the various changes,
the purpose of the magazine has remained the same—that
of an educational journal, as well as a clearing house for
program ideas. Through the years it has not only reported
new methods and techniques and new developments, but has
also served as an interpreter, noting the portents and the
signs of significant trends, in anticipation of future needs,
which has given it a prophetic quality worthy of a pioneering
organization founded by men of imagination and vision. It
has never been merely a follower of roads, some of which
may lead to dead ends, but rather a blazer of trails leading
to new horizons. Nor did it lose sight of the fundamental
philosophy of the organization which gave it birth, the phil-
osophy that recreation if it is to serve its purpose must in-
volve the whole human being, social and spiritual as well as
physical if he is to realize his full potential as a free and
creative individual.

Significant, too, is the fact that change in emphasis and
the broadening of sc0pe from playgrounds for children to
service to all age groups, from sports to the creative arts,
from teenage centers to golden-age clubs was a gradual pro-
cess of growth and development. New ideas were studied
and tested. as they were tried out in local communities, be-

Mtss LEI-I, daughter of Joseph Lee, greatly loved founder of
the National Recreation Association, is former vice-presi-
dent of the Association, and a member of the Board of Trus-
tees of the new National Recreation and Park Association.
She also serves on the NRPA Administrative Board.

‘ Haas, 1965 473

 

fore they were unduly stressed in the pages of the magazine.
By the same token, the growth and the shift of emphasis in
program came first and the change of name, both of the
organization and the magazine, followed later, not vice
versa. In a word, consensus and demand preceded legal
steps. For though a rose by any other name would smell as
sweet, the rose comes first and it must have roots.

Nor did a new emphasis—a widening of horizons——mean
a discarding of former types of activity merely because they
were old or had been done before. Playgrounds did not
disappear with the advent of community centers. To the
contrary, the magazine now has a special Playground Issue
and although its pages are burgeoning with ideas for new
designs and new activities, the basic concepts remain. The
baby was not thrown out with the bath! (Years ago there
was an article in RECREATION with the title “Where Can a
Girl Climb a Tree?” The Playground Issue of 1965 has a
picture of a playground design with trees for climbing——
trees having been rediscovered as girls were a few years
back! )

From the beginning, three ideas have been constant in
the recreation movement, as they have in the pages of its
magazine:

(1) Lay leadership. Recreation, like education, is a func-
tion of government. To be effective it must not only be
understood by the citizen at large on the national level, but
must have the personal interest and support of the citizen in
the local community.

(2) Professional leadership is essential to effective recrea-
tion. As a recreation program is only as good as its leaders,
its leaders must be not only peOple of high caliber and crea-
tive imagination, but people with special training and com-
petence. (An article on exams for play leaders appears as
early as the issue of May 1910) .

(3) Land and open snace. One might say that it was the
need to find space where children could play which led to
the founding of the Playground Association. And, in the
wider sense of space, we find (again in the May 1910 issue)
Parks as Recreation Centers listed as a Congress topic.

With these fundamental planks in its platform, the Asso-
ciation has worked through the years to meet the steadily
increasing demands of a growing program, anticipating
trends and adding new services as the need arose from the

 

he greatest revolution ahead is the time revolution made possible by automation. Instead

of the leisure-class societies of the past, America is on the threshold of becoming a
leisure society in which time is available not for the privileged few but for the many who
will have a new dimension of freedom added to their lives. But Americans must use this
time to replace the current cult of fun . . . tension filled and frenetic, and replace it by the
idea of play as a full expressiveness and harmony of body, spirit, and mind. The people and
the community must recognize how important is the role of parks, playgrounds, and recrea-
tion in this concept. There is scarcity of accessible space today and yet the workday is shorter
and leisure time greater. Instead of defacing and polluting the natural environment, instead
of filling space and time with unfulfilling pursuits, we must put space and time to use for
all people, and give them a chance to develop the values of work and play.

-——DR. MAX LERNER, speaking at the 17th Annual California and Pacific Northwest Rec-

reation and Parks Conference in San Francisco, March 1965.

1:74

________*"

training institutes and area and facility planning service c
earlier days to the more recent services to play in institU!
tions, day camping programs, and recreation for older pe‘
ple. These, to mention a few, are among the many facets gl
recreation which have been reflected in the magazine, as 
have tried to keep faith with our team-mates, while keepim
an eye on the ball and not losing sight of our goal of a rich.
and more creative life for all our citizens, realizing, as I
do, that quantity without quality will not get the ball 0
the line.

Now once again, as in earlier days, there is a shift of e
phasis and a broadening of SCOpe, with the change in str
ture, and in name following a steady growth and devel '
ment—this time in the relationship between groups.
paraphrase Joseph Lee, this is not a tying on of flowers a
a watering of the plant.

As we stand on the threshold of a new era and a yet clo
partnership between lay and professional, recreation a
parks, we shall need an ever increasing interest and supp
from you, our coworkers, who have done so much to m
the magazine what it is today. Its aim is, as it has alw
been, to serve the Recreation Movement. Because of the '
groups now officially joined together, it will be a big
magazine of still wider scope. To you who have know
for the last thirty-five years as RECREATION we give our
surance that under its new name of PARKS AND RECREAT
it will not serve you less because it includes more. As
Playground is father to RECREATION so perhaps RECREATI
is grandfather to Parks and Recreation, as the magazine
proaches its sixtieth year and becomes a senior citizen.

  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

Burning problems lie ahead, problems of leadership
meet the needs growing out of automation and the
leisure, problems of land, of preserving wilderness w
also providing for multiple use in a time of exploding po
lation. The time is now and the crisis urgent. It will t
teamwork and the best brains we have to meet it. Are
equal to the challenge? Joseph Lee was prophetic whe
said,

“It seems to me in our conferences that the first thi

we heard about was playgrounds, then it was art, an

now it is getting to be, I think, the lonely places—t
great parks and great beauty scenes———the preservatio

of the beaches.” if:

”

RECRE

f HE PIXIES IN
, DEN PARK

1 'ncinnati Park Board decorates its Christmas tree with

a a odland creatures and ornaments

     
  

lfon Baffin

- BAMBI) with the annual Christmas
I floral display at Cincinnati’s Eden
ark Conservatory, the Educational
ristmas Tree has been a popular fea-
e since the middle 1930’s. The term

ucational” is apropos because of the
e of natural seed-craft ornaments. At
st this was literally a tree trimmed in
‘d-craft ornaments. Soon Park Nat-
alist Hester Stephenson began mak-
; little “men” from acorns, buckeyes,
'd pine cones; then penguins and other

fun . 5!: and

 V m
t/ft'a ‘
law Uta! .s/mr ‘ d i I... a :1 sad
‘ lazy! acorn // I, If?! (0-7!
1"; c/zanrr m / 16?]!
am 51151? .5455 . ' ' gig”,
mam... 3) . may...
. it”

  
   

  
   
  
 
 

  

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

 

’I"

aginative figures appeared in increas- drurr
g numbers.

To answer a public demand as to the
chanics of the craft, a book named ' amqfifi I _
oodland Pixies, A Hobby in Seed- ' m x ' by“
a]! was published and widely circu-

ed. (Available for 95.45 from the Cin-
nati Park Board, 950 Eden Park com cap

ive, Cincinnati 45202.) The name

ixies” was used by Miss Stephenson in,”

a other members of the park board for”
if, and has since become a popular Hal/450’”

1 for describing seed-craft figures 150717
oughout the nature-craft world. I)! c/mnzr
Originally these pixies were distrib-

d at random on the tree; later a

me was used. At first geography, 1’51!!! [(d/ sec-hon

tory of kings and queens, the circus,
d fairies were featured; then stories,

1h as “Snow White,” “Red Riding
0d,” “Rudolph, the Red Nose Rein-
r,” “Amahl and the Night Visitors,"
. the Nativity were used. These still-
- tableaux are arranged around the
'er branches at a height to be en;
'ed by visiting children and their
cats.

he appearance of the themes has not  _ JI/an 33a]
racted from the ornaments used in d / cod,” 

balance of the tree. The natural ma-

- jar and acorn (a;

an. ,9“;

com 1585K

 

[oz/z (104.7(2-

    

. BATTIN is supervising landscape
hitcct for the Cincinnati Park Board.

is material is reprinted with permi‘s' Seeders]: creatures are described and pictured, in both blackmail-while and in
from The Sounding Board, ditty color, in Cincinnati Park Board’s Woodland Pixies craft mannni.

:EMBER, 1965 413

 

Community, civic group, park, hos-
pital, recreation center . . . whatever
your concern, the magic of great fea-
ture films means “audience” -- excited,
interested, enthusiastic, whether your
group age is a tender 6, a teen-age 15
or a traditional 60. Name your pro—
gram need—recent feature length
comedy, musical, sports story, mys-
tery, drama, cartoon or short subject
— Films Incorporated has it. Reserva—
tions now give you the widest choice
from all top studios: MGM, Para-
mount, Samuel Goldwyn, Disney,
Warner Bros. . . . color or black and
white including Cinemascope. And
the cost of renting from America’s
largest single source for the finest
16mm films is naturally lower.

Why not program now for STANDING
ROOM ONLY? Just fill in and mail
the coupon below.

Films Incorporated

1150 Wilmette Avenue 0 Wilmette, Illinois 60091

Please send me the complete Fl catalog. More

than 2200 outstanding 16mm films. Also
include the address and phone number of the
FILMS INCORPORATED EXCHANGE nearest me.

NAME
POSITION

ADDRESS

CITY ZIP CODE

PHONE NO.

DEPT. Fl-SP 4051 Dept. FI-SP 4051

476 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

lerials adaptable to such ornaments are
inexhaustible. Honey locust, tulip, or
magnolia pods; maple seeds, beans,
walnuts, pine cones, sweet gum balls,
pressed leaves and milkwheat fluff used
like commercial angel’s hair are just a
few. A festoon of ginko seeds adds a
finishing touch. The pods and nuts in
the pixies are augmented with corn-
husks for simulating textile, seedcases
and pods from garden flowers, seeds of
household fruits and less common wild
seeds. Nonnatural items depended on
are pipecleaners, paint, glue, toothpicks,
and electric lights. Only simple tools
are needed.

In the year prior to its first appear-
ance at the conservatory, the tree had
already attracted thousands of visitors
at Trailside Museum in Burnet Woods.
Since then the tree and the floral display
have attracted from thirty thousand to
fifty thousand visitors in the annual
ten-day holiday period.

The booklet bears the subtitle “A
Hobby in Seed-craft.” As is true of
most hobbies, this one is educational.
To quote from the book’s foreword,
“The powers of observation will be
further developed when the woodlands
and parks are searched for pixie mate-
rial. One can hardly handle the innu-
merable things furnished by nature and
not have a desire to know the names
and some of the characteristics of the
plants from which they come.” As
Wordsworth put it, “Let nature be your

teacher.” #

 

m .L .' - . -
 ‘9, ., ‘l
11
$52

 

Prevent heartbreak and hunger
across the world —- each dollar,

sends a -Food Crusade package

through CARE, New [York 10016.

 

' E] December 1964 No. of copies

.Staff Relations

   
    
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

RIGHT DOWN YOUR ALLEY!

Dig into back issues of RECR
TION for the striking ideas
the spare information you need
planning new programs, prom
ing bond issues, leadership tra
ing, and all other phases of pa
and recreation. Order while t
are still available and at

BARGAIN PRICES

How to Get What You Want
(public relations)

Snow Sculpture

Poetry, A Lively Art, Indeed!

Niagara’s Enchanted Forest
(illumination)

[:1 November 1964 No. of copies

Building a Park and Recreation
Department

Platform for Conservation and

Outdoor Education
The Problem of Priorities

(in use of facilities)
Leaders of Leisure

E] April 1964 No. of copies
Making History on the Playground
Make Your Own Safety Slideshow
With a Hop, Skip, and Jump (games)
Ready, Willing . . . and Able

(part-time personnel)

E] March 1964 No. of copies
Experiments in Nature Education
Hitch-um and Pitch-um Camping
Lifesaving with a Realistic Touch
Discipline Problems in Camp

E] November 1963 No. of copies

The Magic of Christmas

Our New Automated World

Santa’s Safety List

Pioneering Legislation for the
Handicapped

E] June 1963 No. of copies
Art Instruction in a Summer Program
A Third Dimension (advisory councils
Miniature Hotels in the Sky (for hikers
Wonder As You Wander (hosteling)

E] February 1963 No. of copie

 

Good Recreation Management
Recreation Site Finders
Let There Be Music (community conce

E] January 1963 No. of copies

Recreation Area Standards

Space Standard Principles

Evaluation of Program Techniques in
Hospital Recreation

Community Sports Facilities on Incr

Single copies ____________________________ -- $
Five or more, each ____________________ -- 5

Order from 4:

NATIONAL a,
RECREATION AND PARK '

ASSOCIATION
8 W. 8th Street, New York, N.Y. 'i

 

4

Race

ARTIES THAT RING

I ELLS

' come all ye bellringers . . .

l-d swing out with sweet music!

Ien J. Lorenz Porter

AVE YOU EVER HEARD the music of
handbells? Are you one of the
many whose faces, as they listen,

- transformed by a peculiar expres-
n of yearning, of timidity, with a
ch of ecstasy? Dare you hope—is
re a chance—may you just possibly
allowed to play one of those lovely
gs?
In the past ten years or so, over a
usand churches in this country have
rchased handbells and formed hand-
] choirs. These groups play for the
rch festival services and are in de-
d for club programs and similar
asions. If your community has such
group, you will know what sheer
gic is evoked by the ringing of bells.
ryone seems to. be fascinated by the
nd. Young and old crowd around
m after the performance, asking
tions and wanting to play. Church
ups must guard their bells with
lous care; only the elect may play
and rightly so, for the bells are
'le, expensive, and diilicult to re-
6. Still, would it not be fun, the

S. PORTER, an arranger and com-
r, lives in. Dayton, Ohio, and is

or of a widely used booklet Hand-
Ringing in Church.

listeners wonder, to be able to sound
one bang on a bell?

If you are among those who are en-
tranced, why not consider buying a set
of bells for your own use? They are
expensive, yes, but no more so than a
spinet piano. They are fragile, yes, but
you can set up rules for their use which
will be effective safeguards. They are
hard to replace, yes, but this only serves
to make them more exciting to own!
Just think of the pleasure you and your
family and your friends can have and
what delight you can bring to others as
they play or listen! Let us tempt you
further by telling of some of the good
times our family has had with its twen-
ty-live handbells, acquired about six
years ago.

First, there is our family itself, a
large one, physically scattered but close-
ly knit in sentiment. Family groups are
always coming back to the home town,
where some of us still live, on every
possible occasion. Every now and then
we invite the clan for a little supper and
a lot of bell music. Just before serving,
we hand out bells and play the Doxology
for a blessing. Included among the
players are all those from age ten (our
minimum by family law) to grand-

 

' MBER, 1965

father’s eighty-four. After supper we
ring again—folk songs, spirituals, sim-
ple classics,chorales, and familiar songs
of the season. \Ve’ve been known to play
Christmas carols in July, for, with bells,
Christmas can last all year! It is our
ambition to play for a family wedding;
so far, none of the cousins has invited
us in spite of broad hints, but we’re
working now on the next generation.
Some day we’ll sound forth with “Here
Comes the Bride” in church!

Friends and neighbors also get in
on the fun. The biggest and noisiest of
all our bellringing parties is the one at
Christmas for the neighbors. This is
one party to which all the members of a
family come. This past year we had
eighty-four in our rather small house;
they came in two shifts, the earlier one
being especially for families with young
children. We start out the first shift
with carol singing by all—and they all
sing! Then the children sing a carol
they have learned at school. Next, per-
haps a musical child will give us a solo
on the flute or organ or violin, or the
host and hostess will play a medley of
carols as an organ and piano duet. More
carols are sung, and then comes the fea-
ture of the evening: the children who
have rehearsed the day before play bells
in the gallery while the adults and
younger fry eat their bell-shaped deco-
rated cookies and hot wassail. “Cod
Rest You Merry,” “Jingle Bells,” and
“Silent Night” are fine for bellringing.
The bellringcrs are rewarded with a
double serving of cookies!

There are newcomers at the door—
is it possible that the first party is over?
The guests of the second shift greet the
departing families, and in a few minutes
we repeat the program for the adults
and teenagers of the smaller, more se-
date second party, where the guests play
bells without benefit of previous re.
hearsal, and do a good job of it! This is
one of our favorite evenings of the year,

477

and everyone seems to have a wonderful
time, not minding that our little house
is packs-'7 to the walls! In the six years
we‘ve nad these parties, only one mother
has called for aspirin! New Year’s Eve
is another time when a bell party is
especially apropos.

It was after one of these seasonal
parties that we called several couples
and single friends who had eXpressed
especial pleasure in ringing, and sug-
gested that we get together regularly
for bellringing. A dozen of them re-
sponded, and now we meet once a month
at the houses of successive members late
on a Sunday afternoon. Our playing is
chiefly for our own pleasure, although
each year we give a few public pro-
grams, as at our Art Museum, the Inter-
national Dinner, the Music Club Family
Night, or some church social. Our for-
mal name is The Whitechapel Bellring-
ers, but we were soon nicknamed
“Porters’ Dealers.” The friendships de-

veloped through this group have been
especially rewarding.

ANOTHER DELICHTFUL USE of our bells
comes from demonstrations for
clubs and church groups. We talk about
the bells, their history, legends, art, and
literature; then we invite the audience
to come up and play with us. A good
deal of merriment ensues, but the result-
ing music is usually recognizable, at
least on the second verse!

We use our bells in our business life,
too. One of us is a school teacher; the
fifth grade is granted the privilege of
playing the bells (after a month of bi—
weekly rehearsals) for the Christmas as-
sembly. Another of us is an editor in a
publishing company; the bells are often
featured in the company Christmas
party, with players recruited from sev-
eral departments and rehearsing during
several noon hours.

Here are some of the questions which
will occur to you in considering the pur-

chase of handbells:

How much must I know about music to
play handbells? For players an under-
standing of music notation, especially of
rhythm, is helpful, but it is surprising
how quickly even the musically illiterate
can follow bell music. One need not
know the staff lines and spaces, since a
bellringer is responsible for only the

line or space representing the bell he
isplaying.

178

  
 

What about directing bellringing? The
director must be a fairly capable mu-
sician who can spot difficulties and en-
gender confidence and keep things mov-
ing. Many teenagers fit these require-
ments and make good bellmasters.
What kind of music copies are used.9
Bell music comes in two forms: either
as individual sheets of music to be
played from a rack on a table or in the
form of large charts to be placed on
an easel for everyone to follow. The
latter method is by far the more prac-
tical for the social playing described in
this account.

How can I get bell music? You may
make your own arrangements if you are
able (this is great fun), or you can pur-
chase it from any of several music pub-
lishers.

How can I get handbells? The most
beautiful bells, most people agree, are
the En glish-made ones [from the White-
ehapel Bell Foundry]. Dutch-made bells

masts? i"; 
warrant;
a Manama , ,
ream  I I '-

. ' r i' ’ .. " " ~:
‘ it .- ,..-- -. ’
.  5’ e "‘ A" * ~- "-s “

TO A CHILD

and help world's needy children is the
United Nations Children’s Fund slogan
this year. Offered are a decorative chil«
dren’s Mobile Carousel ($1.00, upper
right), the popular UNICEF Greet-
ing Cards ($1.25 a box of ten) and a
UNICEF Engagement Calendar
($2.00, lower right).

Available from UNICEF
United Nations, New York 10017



 

 
 
  
   

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
      
   
    
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

[from Petit and F ritsen] and the
cently introduced American-made b
[from Schulmerich Carillons Inc.]
also popular, and all cost about
same. It takes about two years to
the English bells, but the American 0
are available in a few months.
What size set should I order and I
much will they cost? The set whic
becoming standard is the two chrom
octaves from G to G (25 bells).
price for these is approximately S
(tax or duty included). An octave-
a-half set (G to D, 19 bells) is l
enough to enjoy and might be con
ered for a starter.

What equipment is needed in addi
to the bells themselves? Storage c
(elaborate ones can cost as much as
bells, but we use a cheap suitcase
the large ones and a plastic wash
for the small ones) ; gloves for pro
ing the hands from the occupati
hazard of blisters and for keeping
bell handles from getting limp and
colored; a rubber pad on which the u
may be placed; either an easel for
big charts or racks and a table for i
vidual copies. If you do not ha
fitted carrying case (obtainable
the bell foundry or made by your 1
handyman), you should have plasti
Pacific cloth bags for the indivi
bells. #

SOURCES

SOURCES FOR handbells in the United S
include Schulmerich Carillons, Inc., Ca
Hill, Sellersville, Pennsylvania 18960;
Brothers Manufacturing Company, Bo
East Hampton, Connecticut; David W
Inc., 823 South Wabash Avenue, Ch
60605; Rhythm Band, Inc., 409 Throc
ton Street, Fort Worth, Texas; and
Roper’s “Golden Bells,” Box 712, Mon

California.

  
 

BeHdngen

0 American bellringing groups
clude the Drew Methodist Ch
group, Carmel, New York; the “S
ern Bells,” McComb, Mississippi;
White Memorial Presbyterian C
Junior Bell Choir, also of McComb
Christ Methodist Bell Ringers, Salt
City; the “Pilgrim Bellringers," Pi
Congregational Church, St. Louis
Boys Handbell Choir, First Meth
Church, Fort Smith, Arkansas;
“Ringing Ambassadors" of T
Methodist Church, Denver; the
bell Choir of the San Francisco 5 “3
Center, San Francisco; and the Gi
State Hospital for Crippled Chi
group, St. Pau|.-——Ed.

RECR

 

Sweden, the Yuletide officially begins on December 13
h St. ania’s Day. Here, the Lucia Girl wears

‘ reath of whortleberry leaves and lighted candles aml is
ended by a reargnarrl of “star boys” and two gnomes.

5. Russell Gimbel

NOTHER HOLIDAY SEASON was fast

b approaching and much thought
had been given to planning a
ristmas program for members of the
Idea Age Club of Friendly House in
nsfield, Ohio. An unusually active
up—though the average age of the.
members is seventy-fixed ~~ they had
cnted “Living Christmas Cards”
And this
r’s production had to top even that
cessful project. But what? Even the
st creative of the Friendly House
, and those with dramatic bent in
club, failed to come up with an idea
which all could agree. W’hen we

previous Yule season.

just about given up, we found our
war in our files: a pageant bulletin.

——

 

S. CIMBEL is associate direeto: a}
'ndly House Settlement in. Mans/rem,
.0.

EMBER, 1965

 

Senior citizens present tableau 0/ Nativity scene
1 while narrators on either side of stage tell the Christmas

t

' story aml a soloist sings "'0, Holy Night.”

Colrlen-agers stage Christmas scenes and. tableaux

"Festival of Light." secured from the
National Recreation \ssmiation man)
years ago for the nominal price of ten
cents! { The .‘lssociation has a small sup-
ply still available- shat, $.23 please! }
Done entirel) in pantomine. "Festi-
val of Light” is a combination of lllu\'-
ing scenes, as u ell as tableaux. depicting
the. birth uf (ihrist. Christmas customs
of the. English, Suedes. ('ruatlans. and
Mexicans. and the sacred obsensm‘es
of Hanukkah among the llebreu's.
Because narration for the program
requires some eslx‘rienee before an
audienee and strong wire the ten narc
rators tor the pruglam “ere obtained
[llc‘
group. Extensive rustuming and prop-

lrom Im al (.‘unnnunm l’laxers-
erties fur the program might haw
presented problems had it tlut been for

one talented member of the club Wllu

volunteered to manage this. Everyone
else pitched in to help.

After mueh research to make sure
he would be authentm and running
about the cit} to pick Up properties, the
Golden hgers \wre l'f‘iltl‘ for researsal.
\nd we. new! base am problems about
ur thespians shinning up on time. Thev
ltd P ill

\ ttlpdril} crowd of friends mtlud
mg some not \et eligiblc fur the senior
--lul-.  tllt- .IUtlllhlillh tllr lat «l
presentation li all-page cmrr an Ill tlu
[Didi ll("\\.-]‘tap(‘l‘ amoeatul tln next day

\s n) all endeau-I's “nth uur (n-hlen
\m-rs. me feel nut exhila- a.” hell re-
n mic-«l “lien or be it uni-meats sut h
is tlllr- from war «1' [lie um. l-ers at the
ill”: uhu paltiupatul In the program:
"l never thought I'd In no stage. at the

n. I" '
.Igt' Hi 02.. 1':

17')

 

SONG LEADING SIMPLIFIED

Siebolt H. Frieswyk

   
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   

Books on how to lead a song invariably include diagrams group? If you answer affirmatively, you are a potent
to describe hand and arm movements in relation to beats song leader. Here is the simple formula for making yo I

in a measure. I f there are two beats to a measure, the arrows song leader:

point down and up; if three, down, to the right, and up; if 1. Select a song by asking the group what they wo
four, the arrows point down, to the left, to the right, and up. like to sing, or by suggesting a song yourself.
Diagrams for compound rhythms are understandably 2. Get a starting pitch. If you are a monotone, ask so
avoided. one in the group for the starting pitch, or if you have

accompanist, ask the accompanist for the pitch (piano, u
guitar, harmonica, accordion player). Usually songs .
pitched higher for children, lower for teenagers, and 5
lower for adults.

3. Say clearly, “Ready, sing!” or “Here we go!” or “I
Sing!”

4. Beat the main beats with your fist or fists in a do
and up movement.

ECREATION LEADERS untrained in music theory 'but
R who enjoy singing with others, very often get cori-
fused with these diagrammed beats and divided beats,

and become completely confused when the music contains
one long held note which does not fit any beat pattern. The
leader soon decides that the job of conducting should be
left to the conductors. The difficulty stems from the failure

to draw a clear distinction between conducting and song H?re lt_ls' _ ,
- Slmpllfied leading described:
leadlng.
Conducting is rather a technical business which requires y‘F'IST ?g%'¥3§%i§3%}'309f
. . . . SLIGHTLY UP.
specml training. Recreatlon leaders who do not want to \
. BRING FIST DOWN FOR
be conductors may well forget about the fancy diagrams. . ARM u. BEAT As IF POUNDING
. . . . . '9 ’ I ON TABLE T0 INDICATE
Song leading 15 a soclal functlon, and requires the leader to \‘_,' BEAT.
have the spirit and the personality that lead others to singing. IEEEIJTBSNTO BEGINNING
In fact, a song leader is anyone' who can get a group to enjoy '
singing together. The only musical qualification required is The whole movement down and up should be circu

a feeling for the main (heavy) beats of the song. It is well evenly paced, with a sense of weight at the bottom of
to remember that singing came before musical theory, and movement to indicate beat, thusly
that human beings not only have a natural sense of rhythm, ,u,

o o “ ,3 o a  ‘
they live by 1t. Together 15 a key word because Informal \h,’
singing is intended to create group spirit.

‘ ' ‘ ' ' BOTTOM OF MOVEMENT
The most essential musical element“ 1n bringing about a   IS THE BEAT

group spirit 1s the beat. What IS a beat ? It 15 a pulsa- E l _ h 1
tion or series of pulsations, or accents in time, which form xamp es—mam cats on y
rhythmic patterns. Each tick of a clock is a beat in time,     k R
each pulsation of a heart is a beat. Each syllable in poetry \
or verse is a beat. The musician and the poet will tell you M Y C 0 U N - T R Y 'T l 5 — 0 F T H E E

that there are main beats, stronger and weaker beats, off
beats, extended beats, and so on, ad inlinitum. Pay no

 

3: MAIN BEAT

. , B B B
attention. Youoare a song leader, not a conductor or vers1- OH SAY CAN You
her. Your Job is to engage people 1n group Singing.

Do you breathe regularly? Do you know a few songs? 3 B B
(You don’t have to be able to sing them, although it helps.) .
. . . . . . . . She’ll -be comm round the

Do you enjoy Singing w1th others? Do you like spirit 1n a
m. . B B B B
MR. FRIESWYK is consultant on the performing arts for the ,r Here, Jacques, Here Jacques

National Recreation and Park Association.

480 RECRE

  
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
  
   
    
 

e trick is to feel the main beat, and indicate it at the
m of the movement. The movement should be like
ping a tire rhythmically, pumping water out of a well,
wing wood.

~ re main beat is like a walking step. The “in-between”
. are like little taps of the foot. Or the main beat is like
beat on a big drum, while..the “in-between” beats are
rhythms on smaller drums played with the big drums.

' e this:

AN'G BANG
, ANG, BANG BANG, ANG, BANG

BANG
BANG, BANG, BANG

ou can do it with your hands or feet.
' p your hands alternately loudly, then softly—regu-

like this:

L A P, clap, C L A P, clap, C L A P, clap

5

OR
L A P, clap, clap, C L A P, clap, clap,
.' on

L A P, clap, clap, clap, C L A P, clap. clap, clap

y it with your feet, starting with a heavy step followed
light step (in place or walking) :

T E P, step, 5 T E P, step

OR

T T E P, step, step, 8 T E P, step, step

‘ OR

‘ T E P, step, step, step, 51' E P, step, step, step

11 may try counting to get the “feel” of a main beat
ed by lighter beats. Count a loud “ONE” followed by
t “two”:
NE. two, ONE, two

on
E. two, three, 0 N E, two, three

OF!
E. two, three, four, 0 N E, two, three, four

anized recreation in the arts.

[Create and strengthen cultural planning and advisory
. within the administrative structure of organized rec-
n, and establish liaison with appropriate organiza-
‘ and institutions.

Develop policies and practices for the arts as recrea-
accordance with general policy which do not restrict
ther encourage expansion and flexibility.
Encourage the use of specialized leadership of quality
'lding the cultural recreation program.

1 Arrange for more workshops in the various arts for

atory purposes as well as training purposes.

_.

Cultivate the broadest possible concepts for the role

All rhythmic patterns are related to the march rhythm
(one, two) or the waltz rhythm (one, two, three).

Listen to marches and waltzes to get the “feel” of the
main beat.

As song leader, you “beat” the main beats. But if you
happen to heat a few weaker beats, do not worry about it.

For practice, it may be useful to use a table or desk as the
base of the movement to indicate the beat. Use a light pound-
ing movement.

Try with both lists moving simultaneously in “beating”
the same rhythm.

The beat is all that is required. You do not have to worry
about the meter, or about up and down beats.

There is only one kind of heat in simplified song leading——
the fist moves down and up in a gentle or sturdy motion to
indicate one main beat.

If you can sing, sing with the group while indicating the
beats. If you cannot, “mouth” the words.

The distance between the top of the beat and the bottom
should not be more than twelve inches. Usually it is better
to confine the distance to a few inches. You are not pound-
ing railroad spikes, you are driving in thumbtacks. Make it
graceful.

What would you like to sing?

“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow”?

Let’s all sing this song for all good fellows!

Here we go or here’s the pitch—pitch please.

Ready, sing

 

 

‘ I B I I
FOR HE'S A JOLLY GOOD F‘EL LO?!
B B
WHlCH NOBODY CAN DEN Y

 

 

NEXT SONG PLEASE!

 

A CHART OF PROGRESS FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

6. Develop better techniques for educating the authori-
ties, the staff, and the public in the use and benefits of actual
recreation program.

7. Undertake the formation of new groups and special
events. Cultivate the indigenous.

8. Make freer, fuller, more frequent use of talented
groups and individuals in reaching the public, serving them,
and interpreting recreation.

9. Accumulate a supply of basic and useful equipment
for the various arts. Plan for and increase the availability
of basic facilities for the arts.

10. Constantly strive for quality in this phase of the
organized recreation program.

 

From a talk on “The Arts in Organized Recreation” given
by Siebolt F rieswyk, consultant on the performing arts of
,the National Recreation Association, at the 19th North
Carolina Recreation Conference in Raleigh, 1963.

 

BER, 1965 481

Leo Perlis

 

Since ugliness on the whole is man-made, it can be man-un-
made! Above, municipal indifference allowed this New York
City block to deteriorate into a slum. Below, children in
Sterling Forest, a planned community near Tuxedo, New York,
designed for homes, light industry, research laboratories, edu-
cational projects, aml a large experimental garden center.

 

CITIZEN ACTION
IFOR A
BEAUTIFUL
AMERICA

Beauty is not skin deep; it is soul d

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

man—the greed of some and the poverty of 0t I

The drive for the “fast buck” will not produce b

tiful buildings nor will corruption in city hall produ
beautiful city.
Of course, there are many reasons that cause diife
kinds of ugliness, and there are many ways to promote
ferent kinds of beauty, but the essential fact is that the
liness of corruption Within us tends to create ugliness r
corruption around us. Ethics and esthetics, in the ‘
analysis, are interrelated. Beauty is not skindeep; it is -
deep. If we really want beauty, then we must use the “bu
not to corrupt and not to impoverish, but to beautify an
enrich, and since ugliness on the whole is man-made, it

I]’GL1NESS is pathetic because it is caused largely

be man-unmade.
To accomplish this will require vigorous and coura
action on several fronts: political, legislative, social an
ucational. This, after all, is What we mean by citizen a
We mean, first of all, that citizens must exert private i
tive and encourage public responsibility through pol
action—through the enactment of both mandatory and
missive laws on the federal, state, and local levels, with
quate appropriations Where necessary, to promote b
in the city and beauty in the countryside. Professiona
visory committees of architects, landscape designers, at
etcetera, should be developed.
We mean second of all, that citizens must encou
through their organizations, in their schools, and at h
the education of the very young for a deep appreciati
beauty from Project Head Start on. If citizen action i
ing to be effective, there must be a national coordi
committee, with a full-time staff—nationally and regi
——for the purpose of stimulating volunteer action, f0
purpose of promoting model legislation, for the purp
developing educational programs, for the purpose I
changing pertinent information, for the purpose of =
as a7 clearing house of ideas, etcetera. There must be a

MR. PERLIS is director of AFL-CIO Community Servic
tivities. He prepared this material for the Citizen A;
Pat'él of the White House Conference on Natural Bea:

M ay.

 
 

482 Ream

orhood-hy-neighborhood and block-by-block approach.

It seems to me that now the time, the man, and science
ave combined to make beauty possible. The time is now
ten the grey clouds of poverty and the bomb simply cry
at for that silver lining. The man is President Johnson
hose message on natural beauty is a clarion call to action.
nd science, through automation, is producing a new leisure

. ss with time on its hands.

Beauty has always touched the favored few of wealth,
ucation, and imagination, and it has almost always es-
ped the many in our mill towns, tenements and roadsides.

It has always been my experience that beautiful ghettos
built on power and pelf have been more exclusive than ugly
ghettos built on poverty and pigment.

Now, in the face of more free time for the millions, there
will be more possibilities for creating and sharing beauty
than ever existed in the history of mankind.

The achievement of this beauty through recreation, ed-

ucation, the arts, requires the highest degree of public serv-

ice and this means citizen action. Only then will the Great
Society become a reality—because the Great Society is a
society of hope, scope, duty, and beauty. 

 

‘ EOPLE
THE NEWS

or RECRUITERS of the year. The Re-
cruitment Sub-Committee of the Na-
nal Recreation and Park Association
-ently presented two awards as “Re-

iter of the Year 1965” to Elizabeth
rborougli, chief, Special Services
ction, Employment Management Di-
ion, Department of the Army, and to
alter C. Johnson, superintendent of
rks and recreation in Glencoe, Illi-
is. Some of their achievements in this

 
  

 
   
     
     
   
  
 
 
 
  
   

portant area follow:
‘ MrssSCARRORoucn
has continually and
' effectively conduct-
“ . ed an aggressive
_ program by publi-
i- cizing and bring-
: ' ‘ ing to the public’s
L attention the need
qualified civilian personnel recrea-
n specialists to plan, direct, super-
,- and coordinate the recreation pro-
ms for Army personnel enlisted and
military communities overseas. As
'esult of her able leadership, expert
dance, and professional knowledge,
has carried a heavy workload in
intaining liaison and public relations
11 city and college newspaper editors;
in and TV stations; university and
ege faculties and placement offices;
ional, state, and city recreation de-
ments and professional organiza-
s; and Army commands overseas
in the United States. Miss Sear-
ough has been responsible for the
. ming of all Army recreation pro-
m exhibits at national conventions.
1 as the National Recreation Con-

'-

 

.EM BER, 1965

 

gress, National Art Education Associa-
tion Convention, American Library As-
sociation Congress, and the American
Educational Theatre Association Con-

vention.

WALTER C. Jons-
SON is an excellent
example of what a
recreation admin-
istrator can do in
recruitment. Mr.
Johnson began by
speaking to high
schools in the Mount Prospect, lllinois,
School District, reaching a total enroll-
ment of nine thousand students. Suc-
cessful in this venture, be conceived the
idea of offering a trip to students in the
Chicago Metropolitan area to visit the
University of lllinois campus and its
Department of Recreation and Munici-
pal Park Administration. The univer-

sity agreed to cooperate and Mr. John-

 

Mrs. Lyndon ll. Jahnsan met two ymmg
helpers in her beautification campaign
at the. 12th annual meetng of Keep.
America Beautiful in New York City. On
the left is “Tom Tidy" aml on the right,
“Daniel llraame, In.” mascots a] the

llhmle

litter-preeentian programs in
lslaml and Kentucky, respectirely.

son approached the West Suburban
Recreation Directors Association for
assistance. The result was a turnout of
sixty high-school students. A followup
study completed by Maxwell R. Car-
ret, associate professor of recreation
and park administration at the univer-
sity, showed that, as a direct result of
this trip, eighteen students enrolled in
the field of recreation at three univer-
sities in 1965. Mr. Johnson now has
new fields to conquer, having been ap-
pointed chairman of the recruitment
committee for the Illinois Park and

Recreation Society for 1965-66.

Peter DeCelleke has been appointed
National Park Service park planner at
the Delaware Water Gap National Rec-
reation Area in the states of Penn-
sylvania, New Jersey, and New York.
Mr. DeCelleke, who opened an oliice
in Stroudsburg. Pennsylvania, on No-
vember 1, will represent the NPS in
the new national recreation area. The
act authorizing the new national recrea-
tion area, the first east of the Mississippi
River, was signed by President John-
son ou September 1. It calls for the Sec-
retary of the Interior to administer the
area for public outdoor recreation, and
for preservation of the scenic, scientific,
and historic features in a manner coor-
dinated with the Tocks Island Reser-
voir project being constructed by the
Army Corps of Engineers. The seventy-
two thousand-acre national recreation
area surrounding the artificial Tocks
Island Reservoir—about thirty-seven
miles long and about a half-mile wide—-
will provide an area of varied outdoor
recreation available to about thirty mil-
lion people, nearly fifteen percent of the
nation’s population.

483

 

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 466

 

drive for seventy million Americans.
With many facilities underway and
some completed, 1966 is the target year

for full operation; five million visitors ,.

are expected in that year, increasing to
between eight and ten million annually
thereafter.

The Land Between the Lakes has be-
come a demonstration area to show how
the land can be used for the maximum
benefit for outdoor-loving Americans.
With recreation a first goal, five thou-
sand campsites will be completed within
the first five years and TVA predicts the
annual camper total will reach a mini-
mum of two million people. Plans for
recreation facilities also include the
building of a one-mile canal which will
unite the twin lakes, making over 220,-
000 surface acres of water available to
boating, fishing, swimming, and water-
sport enthusiasts. A program of on-the-
spot education in biology for school
children, scientists, and recreation lead-
ers; a wildlife sanctuary which will
protect deer and wild turkey; and pond
and marsh areas which will be planted
with vegetation to lure migratory water
fowl are also planned.——CAROLYN BAN-
FIELD LEAMOND, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(Former playleader, naturalist, and
craft specialist for the Cincinnati Rec-
reation Commission.)

New Policies for Recreation

0 PROVIDE more federal recreation

facilities near cities, the President’s
Recreation Advisory Council has laid
down guidelines for management of
recreation areas on federal lands and
adopted a uniform method for measur-
ing recreation use. In October the coun-
cil approved three new policy circulars.
One establishes guides to direct the
federal investment in outdoor recrea-
tion. The second spells out, for the first
time, a new uniform system of report-
ing recreation use by federal agencies.
The third gives guidelines for the man-
agement of federal lands for recreation
by federal, state, county, local, and
private agencies.

Copies of the three circulars approved
by the council are available from the
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, Depart-
ment of the Interior, Washington 25,
DC. Titles are: “Guides for Federal
Outdoor Recreation Investment,” “Fed-
eral Executive Policy Governing the
Reporting of Recreation Use of Federal
Recreation Areas” and “Non-Federal
Management of Recreational Facilities

On Federal Lands and Waters.” (See
also Page 471.)

So Old, It’s New

FLORIDA’S newest theater is twenty-
four hundred years old. A replica
of an old Greek outdoor theater is being

r______________

BELSON'S '65

WAREHOUSE CLEARANCE SALE!

SAVE NOW! HURRY! OFFER ENDS DECEMBERSI, I965

WE MUST CLEAR OUR WAREHOUSE OF ALL '65 STOCK
TO MAKE ROOM FOR OUR '66 INVENTORY

SPECIAL PRICES ON ORDERS OF 6 OR 12 UNITS

6 GF-SOO-W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . .S24.B9 on.

I 12 rc-noa CHAR-WOOD CAMPSTOVES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “$23.53 ea.

6 QF-300-W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . . .32439 on.
6 (IF-300 PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES HARDWARE ONLY . . . . . . .S'I4.22 on.
12 QF-SOO-W PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES COMPLETE . . . . . . . . . “$23.58 on.
12 (IF-300 PARK-KING PICNIC TABLES HARDWARE ONLY . . . . . . .SI3.4I ea.

PLUS FREE FREIGHT ALLOWED ON ANY ORDER OF
SIX (6) OR MORE UNITS ANYWHERE IN THE U.S.A.

For Further Details Write

BELSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.
NORTH AURORA, ILLINOIS I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
   
    
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
  

 “w

Archway to the West. The keystone 3
tion completes the St. Louis Gate :
Arch, symbol of America’s westwa
expansion. It is part of the 85-a
Jefferson National Expansion Memor'
Park and was designed by Eero Saarin
Under the arch will be constructed t
Museum of Westward Expansion. Twe
galleries of some 240 exhibits will co
major phases of the history of westwa
expansion, and two theaters will 3 .
documentary films on the subject.

planned for Florida’s newest univ
sity, Florida Atlantic at Boca Rato
Latest addition to the plans for the u
versity, whose motto is “Where Tom
row Begins,”"isia replica of the theat
of Dionysus inlAtlfens in 435 BC.
The theater is being sponsored by t
Greek Embassy and the American '
tional Theatre and Academy which ha
provided research information and
terial. Southeastern Florida and Ath
have the same climate. In addition
accommodating Greek theater festiv
the theater is suited to other types
presentations including music and b
let.

Flagging Along

LAG FOOTBALL, a new version of
gridiron game, has been in
duced to Los Angeles area by the C
Recreation and Parks Departm
Rules of flag football are similar
touch football except that the ball c
rier must be stopped by snatching a
a flag attached to the runner’s belt.
team members wear flags of the sa
color, and only players on the offen‘
team are eligible to receive passes.
football replaced touch football t
season at Los Angeles municipal c .
ters. Competition is scheduled at th 
levels: local leagues, district or a
playoffs, and interagency playoffs.

I

  

RECREA'I‘

 

   
 
    
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
    
   
 
  
   
    
  
  

Larez

HE Community Center Act in Cal-
ifornia stipulates that a five to
ten cent tax may be levied by

hool districts throughout the state for

,vummunity services. However, it is not

nerally known that junior colleges

' California may also levy such a tax

r the same purpose. The Cerritos Col-

e District, surrounded by the cities

I Lakewood, Be-llflower, Artesia,

‘ wney, and La Mirada, has expanded

A. community services, by using such a

x, and now includes recreation serv-

es to residents.

In September 1963, the college

ed a community services council

- igned to represent a cross section of

" college district in matters dealing

'th services to the residents of the

trict. The council’s objectives were

I identify the educational needs of the

mmunity, determine how the pro-

am would be financed, and continu-
ly evaluate the specific services of the
al program.

The council further provided for the

ation and/or coordination of spe-

alized interest groups which, while
gely autonomous, would be alliliatcd

  

' . LAREZ is supervisor of recreation

~Bellflower, California.

CEIBER, 1965

 

Recreation agencies in college district

benefit under new legislation for expanded services

with the council. These groups would
be engaged in activities such as fine
arts; special educational.services for
business, industry and professional
groups; lectures and forums; commu-
nity recreation; and community re-
search and development. Each group
was instructed to elect a chairman who
would then have a voice in the council
whenever a meeting was scheduled .
The first meeting of the recreation
committee was held in September 1963.
The purpose of the meeting was to bring
recreation administrators together from
the cities in the district to determine the
need for a citizens advisory committee
to the Cerritos College administration.
The members of the committee (repre-
senting their respective cities) were
asked to consider a statement of guid-
ing principles. These principles would
be used as a framework for the future
operation of the committee and were to
identify the recreation needs of the
community (junior college district), to
determine the scope and character of
the college-sponsored recreation pro-
gram which would not unnecessarily
duplicate programs offered by other
groups in the district, and to coordinate
the activities of all of the recreation
groups within the district. A question—
naire answered by each of the members

revealed that it was desirable that ef-
forts be made to commence a coopera-
tive program between recreation agen-
cies within the Cerritos College District
and Cerritos College.

Subsequent meetings were held to
discuss implementation of the program.
The outcome of these meetings was that
the college would provide leadership in
programs which the member agencies
were unable to schedule due primarily
to budgetary limitations. Actual pro-
graming began in June 1961-, operated
throughout the summer, and was termed
very successful for the first year by all
participating agencies. Leadership from
the college was provided in such classes
as wrestling, gymnastics, creative dance
for children, weight lifting, archery,
and other sports activities. Because of
its tremendous facilities, a diversified
program was also scheduled at the col.
lege. These activities included a music
camp, instrumental band, art classes,
theater groups for children and adults,
dance groups, sports activities, lectures,
swimming instruction, recreation swim-
ming, and many other activities. Plans
are currently underway to expand this
cooperative program to include activi-
ties on a year-round basis, thereby ex-

tending a recreation service to all the
people. #

485

 

Recreation Department in Lynchburg, Virginia,
celebrates its fiftieth birthday with gala
anniversary week

Myrtle F. Patterson

A F I F T I E T H
BIRTHDAY is a
time for appraising
the past and antici-
pating the future.
The year 1964 was
such a “red letter
~ year” for the
Lynchburg, Virginia, Department of
Recreation and Parks which celebrated
the fiftieth year of its founding and hon-
ored those farsighted people of the early
1900’s who not only realized the great
value of proper use of leisure time but

did something about it.

Records show that this department is
the second oldest in the state of Vir-
ginia, the department in Richmond hav-
ing come into being in 1913. The public
recreation program in Lynchburg was
first known as the Association of Play-
grounds in 1914, and was incorporated
as the Municipal Department of Play-
grounds and Recreation in 1921. In
1953 the parks department was added

for more efficient operation, and the de-
partment became ofiicially known as the

  

Lynchburg Department of Recreation
and Parks, the name it still bears today.

It all came about when Mrs. Bertha
Guggenheimer, a resident of Lynchburg
who also had been instrumental in start-

ing the recreation movement in Israel,
attended a small recreation conference

MRS. PATTERSON is recreation super-
visor in the Department of Recreation
and Parks, Lynchburg, Virginia.

486

in Richmond. Realizing the great need
for adequate play facilities in her home-
town, she gave a parcel of land and a
two-story frame building located on it
for Lynchburg’s first playground and
community center, in memory of her
deceased daughter, Mrs. Cecile Guggen-
heimer Milliken. The center was named
the Guggenheimer-Milliken Playground,
and has been in continued operation
ever since. In the early thirties the ori-
ginal house was destroyed by fire and
replaced by a modern, one-story brick
building. Progress, in the form of a
dual-lane expressway constructed
through Lynchburg in the fifties, caused
the house to be literally picked up off
its foundation and moved a few feet to
make Way for the new road, but the
center continued to serve the public.

» Mrs. Cuggenheimer and John Crad-
dock became the first president and

vice-president, respectively, of the As-Y

sociation of Playgrounds, with the city
employing Frank Wood as the first su-
perintendent of recreation. During the
years, other properties have been do-
nated for recreation use; the city has
purchased certain properties; and, with
the excellent relationship enjoyed be-
tween the recreation department and the
city school authorities, many play-
grounds have been established on
school pr0perty.

80 NOW, after fifty years of operation,
the Lynchburg Department of Rec-
reation and Parks in thisfcity of fifty-

  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   

five thousand population boasts twen
four playgrounds, eight community c
ters, two libraries, several unsupervis
play lots, a modern stadium, and ma
multi-use athletic fields, many light
for night play. Now, instead of o
playground director, as was the case
1914, the department has more th
sixty-five regular employes, includi
one paid person on each playgrou ,
a number of special supervisors, an I
fice staff, and a group of maintenan
men who are kept busy throughout t
year beautifying the parks and cent
and making equipment safe for ma
mum use. Instead of a central ofli
located in a small second-floor roo
it now has its own office building w
oflice space for the director, secret
and supervisors, and for conference
and workshops.

During the week of July 13, 19
emphasis was given to the public r
reation program in Lynchburg, and 1
mayor proclaimed it the fiftieth an
versary week for the Lynchburg l
partment of Recreation and Parks, la
ing the department for its “dyna
concepts of the creative use of f
time” and pointing to its fifty years
service “in the field of meaningful
reation.” Much publicity was gi
that week through all media—Ia
TV, and newspaperw—so that all i
lived in the vicinity were made aw
of the part that recreation played, .
continues to play, in the lives of Lyi
burg citizens. Each of the playgrou
that week set aside a day to condu
special celebration, giving emphasi
family recreation and taking time
to review the history of the depart
and the particular playground, an
hear comments from those present I
cerning the use of leisure time.

RECREA

URINC the anniversary week, two
floats were decorated each day by
playground children, depicting the vari-
ous phases of recreation, with a king
nd queen from that playground reign-
'ng over the float and the day’s activi-
ies. Appropriately enough, the first
nd last float to travel throughout the
ity that week had a historical theme.
‘he first one depicted the organization
f the department in 1914, with some
i the teenagers dressed to represent
rs. Cuggenheimer, Mr. Craddock, and
.riends as they put their heads together
ver this project. The very last float
.ompared the modern athletic contest
'ith that of the early 1900’s.

The floats were merely flat-bottom
'agons, donated by a local trucking
« mpany, and hauled by a department-
wned pickup truck. The sides were
raped with bright green material with
rtificial grass, loaned by a local burial
ark, used to cover the flooring. A sign
'as carried on the rear of the wagon
aeh day, announcing which playground

represented, and another across the
de, announcing that this was in
lebration of the department’s fiftieth
nniversary. The king and queen sat
n specially constructed, high-back

rones on the rear of the pick-up truck.
1e thrones were covered with purple
aterial, decorated with sequins and
itter. The reigning pair wore highly
corated (“bejeweled”) crowns, and
e queen carried an armful of bright
wers. On the first float, direct de-
endants of the Guggenheimer and
raddock families were the reigning
onarchs. Floats carried such themes
: family recreation, a lawn party, a
nage party, activities for small chil-
en, arts and crafts, and special activi-

celebrating four major holidays.

- ctators were rather astonished to see

float carrying a decorated silver

ristmas tree, an Easter bunny, a Hal-

ween witch stirring her brew in a

oking pot, and patriotic figures rep-

enting Flag Day and the Fourth of
ly. The float carrying a decorated
aypole surrounded by children doing
typical May Day dance was beauti-
lly executed, as was the one showing
ildren operating large hand puppets

d painting at an easel.

As the floats traveled throughout the

y, they stopped momentarily at desig-

ted locations, so that people could in-

ICEMBER. 1965

spect the float and ask questions about
the activity. Since the city code pro-
hibited use of a loudspeaker system or
any kind of amplified music, the driver
would sound his horn as he approached
a playground, a shopping center, or the
newspaper office to draw attention to
the celebration.

A dozen or more signs saying “We
salute the City Recreation Department
on its 50th Anniversary” were dis-
played in sporting-goods stores, bowl-
ing alleys, restaurants, hotels, and in
the public elevator in city hall. Little
flllers were composed which said,
“W ateh out for the Recreation Depart-
ment’s 50th Anniversary Floats today,”
“What have you done for recreation
recently?” “Visit your nearest play-
ground,” etc., and sent to local radio
stations which they used throughout the
week. Two guest appearances by de-
partment representatives were made on
TV programs, at which time they told
about the department’s progress over
the years and invited people to join in
the celebration and to take advantage
of the programs throughout the year.
And, finally, the local newspaper on the
Sunday of Anniversary Week gave the
department a one-page spread—a fea-
ture article concerning Lynehburg’s
public recreation program. All this was
an excellent way of promoting good
public relations, and many excellent
comments have been heard as a result.
An amateur photographer was on hand
all week to take movies of the floats
and playground activities and, at the
conclusion of the week’s celebration, a
special evening was set aside for those
interested to come and view the films.

This was a gala weeklong celebration.
The children on the playgrounds were
given a special program to work on—
one that held great significance for
them and their families. The public was
made aware of the necessity and worth
of recreation as a way of life. The city
authorities became conscious for the
first time that this department had been
“on the ball” for fifty years. And good
comments were “sweet music” to the
ears of all who had promoted recreation.

With so much being said about peo-
ple wishing to contribute something to
the future of America, it was well for
this department to take time out to look
in retrospect at its history and then to
turn its attention to the future. #-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Read it

and
weep.

Our new catalog can be very
disheartening.

Take your baseball backstop
for example. That monstrous
one your school board shelled
out all that money for. Well in
our book there’s a backstop
that weighs and costs a frac-
tion as much. And just to go a
little further, it’s portable.

And those volleyball stand-
ards you always thought were
up to your standards. We’ve
got a pair that takes up no
more space and converts for
high jump. And tennis. And
badminton. And basketball.
And chinning. And rope climb.
And paddle tennis. And
tetherball. And pole vault.

In fact, we’ve got a 68 page
catalog of the most tear-jerk-
ing equipment you ever saw.

And it’s yours free for the ask-
ing. So ask. After all what can
it cost you, a few tears?

['0

O

a
ATHLETIC SUPPLY co. me
P.0. DRAWER a

28 HYNES AVE. GROTON. CONN. 06340
TELEPHONE (203) 445‘8111

487

 

Modern Facilities for Recreation

 

REMODELED AND P

Something old,
something new,

a look at
remodeled armories

and flexible

“erector-set” construction

.188

T ake an abandoned armory—more
and more are being declared surplus—-
and you have the makings of a large-
scale recreation center. All you need is
the know-how to see its possibilities
and some funds for capital improve-
ment. I f you don’t have an old armory
standing idle, maybe you have‘an old
erector set lying around? M mice a model
of your “dream” center or facility from
the set and then consider constructing
it from pre-engineered “erector-set”
components now available in an un-
limited number of forms and sizes.

NEW LEASE ON '
LIFE

g N OLD ARMORY in the heart of busy
Bridgeport, Connecticut, has un-
dergone extensive face-lifting and re-

modeling and is now the Archbishop

    
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
    
 

An old National Guard Armory
in the heart of busy

downtown Bridgeport, Connecticut,
has been remodeled into a
recreation center which not only
provides a community-wide
program but holds physical-educatio
classes for nine nearby

Catholic elementary schools.

Shehan Center, which not only provi
a community-wide recreation progr
but physical-education classes for n
nearby Catholic elementary schools
well. The center is financed by the I
cese of Bridgeport, the Commu .
Fund, and membership fees.

The armory really got a new lease
life when the diocese entered into
agreement for a five-year lease on
Bridgeport Brass Recreation Cen
formerly the National Guard Arm
with the Bridgeport Brass Foundati
a charitable subsidiary of the Bri
port Brass Company. The armory
the past several years has made its fa
ties available for general commu
The building was examined
state engineers and found to be st

use.

turally sound and in excellent 0 __.__

tion.
Remodeling the armory on 1\

RECRE :

     
  

Versatility highlights this [ire-engineered structure
in lVeltl County, Colorado, built around

a lirestock exhibit area in Greeley to proritle
sheltered show area in summer. ice skating in winter.

“AF—-m-

borne of the world’s finest
quarter horses train in

this [He-engineered building
at Westernhook F arm,
Southbury, Connecticut.

The rigid frame-type
construction permits a traininl
area without obstructions.

GINEERED CENTERS

. “Erector-set” steel components make possible flexible. aml attractive. arrangements

'-

 

 

Street for its role as a recreation center
got under way immediately. A capital
improvement program totalling $300,-
000 was begun, initiated by The Most
Reverend Lawrence J. Shehan, Bishop
of Bridgeport, who later became Arch-

and its busy, full program of cultural
and recreational activities for the young
and old, has enriched our community
life in the greater Bridgeport area.”—
GEORGE A. FASOLO, executive director,
Archbishop Shehan Center, Bridgeport.

bishop of Baltimore, and recently be- Connecticut.
came a Cardinal. The installation of a
35’-by-60’ swimming pool was the first
addition to the building. The remodel-
ing of the gym was accomplished and
two new double exit doors were pro-
vided on both sides of the recreation
center looking out on Main Street. The
exterior of the building was refinished
with brick and limestone. An area of
thirty-five hundred square feet on the
second Hoor of the building was re-
modeled to provide a library, reading
room, and conference rooms. The swim-
ming pool area, located at the rear of
the building, had once been used to
house army artillery. The pool ranges
from a depth of three to ten feet. Cer-
amic tile showers were installed. The

basement of the building totaling ap-

o A number of New Hampshire com-
munities have also converted old ar-
mories into recreation centers. The
New York City Park Department has

its headquarters in an old arsenal in
Central Park!—Ed.

REVOLUTION
IN STEEL

NEW CONSTRUCTION methods and ma-
terials are making their contribu-
tions to modern developments in recrea-
tion buildings. Attractive styling, dur-
ability, and fire resistance are making
pro-engineered steel buildings a fast-
growing method of construction. Once
limited to a few standard shapes, steel
buildings now come in an unlimited

proximately thirteen thousand square
feet was remodeled and is now being
used for children’s games.

The program of the recreation center
includes a full-time physical education
program for nine parochial schools
which encompasses over two thousand
youngsters and takes place from 8:30
AM to 2:30 PM. The recreation program
for the diocese begins at 3:00 PM and
lasts until 10:00 PM, Monday through
Sunday. The adult program at the cen-
ter includes ballroom dance classes,
family swims, men’s nights on Tues-
day and Thursday, women’s nights on
Wednesday and Friday, a Red Cross
instructor’s course, slimnastics for
women, tennis lessons, and a widow and
widower’s club. The program for chil-
dren includes a beauty and charm
course for girls, swimming lessons, a
swim team, basketball programs, golf
lessons, midget basketball and football,
modern dance and ballet, a band, a read-
ing program, and sewing for girls, as
well as seasonal clinics.

In a letter written last year to the
center’s board of directors, Bishop Wal-

ter W. Curtis said, “The Archbishop
Shehan Center, in the space of a short

number of forms, sizes, and price rang-
es. They are used for everything from
skating rinks, lodges, enclosed pools,
and bowling alleys to boat and part
shelters, and even as enclosures for ten-
nis courts and rodeos.

The revolution in steel buildings
stems mainly from the new emphasis on
mass-produced components. By com-
bining components in unlimited ways,
the buyer gets exactly what he wants in
terms of layout, style, color, vertical and
horizontal clearance, erection time, and
cost. Pre-engineered steel frames and
panels can be blended with glass, mas-
onry, concrete, or any other conven-
tional material.

“Erector-Set” assembly techniques
permit construction in as little as a
third of the time required for other
structures, thereby assuring quicker re-
turn on investment. A lodge of Girl
Scouts of Mount Lebanon, Pennsyl-
vania, for example, was constructed
during winter months and completed
in time for early spring occupancy.

“Less upkeep, durable, and safer be-

Don’t target . . .

 

_——————"

cause it is fireproof” is the way Cu
Scout representative Mrs. J. E. Timh‘
lake explains selection of the ste'
(building. The clear-span, rigid-frat;
structure is over forty feet wide ah
seventy feet long. The floor is suppos-
ed by steel trusses to provide unt-
structed patio space beneath the b‘
ing. Exterior wall panels have a b

on acrylic enamel that will give y

of maintenance-free service. .

In Weld County, Colorado, offir.

employed pre-engineered steel cor-
nents to keep their livestock exhibit

in Greeley in use the year round.
building a steel roof supported by
frames over the area, they creat
100’-by-300’ shelter that is ideal
picnic groups and livestock shows i
summer and ice skating in the wi
The ice rink is formed by dammin
concrete floor and flooding it with
ter. Nature acts as the refrigerant.

Steel buildings are popular for
and roller skating rinks because of
economy, speed of erection, clear
styling, and ease of expansion.
Westview Playland in Waco, Texa
an example. A handsome 436
building houses two recreation f
ties, a roller skating rink and childrt.
play area, under one roof. .

Expansion of a pre-engineered 5
building is accomplished speedily .
economically by demounting interl
ing steel wall panels and re-erec
them in conjunction with the enla
ment program. The work can be
ducted without the usual expense of
stalling supports for the existing 1
and without disruptions to normal u
ness routine.

 
   
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

 

Aluminized or aluminum-coated
is becoming increasingly popular
roofs of steel buildings. Alumin
steel provides outstanding corr
resistance, bettering‘the life of gal
ized steel four to one. . Aluminized
also has excellent heat capabilities
fleeting eighty percent of unwante
lar heat in summer and retaining g
ated heat in winter.

Excellent financing plans are us
available from reputable manufact
of steel buildings. In addition to fi
cing the building shell, these plans

time, has become an important part of
the recreational life of the community
of greater Bridgeport. Its high mem-
lmrship, especially among the youth,

  
  
  
 

mit the buyer to figure the cost
heating, plumbing, insulation, and o 
details that become a permanent pa '
the completed structure. #

every litter bit hurts

KEEP AMERICA B,EAUTIFUL

 

100 RECREA

 
 
    
    
         

SEARCH BRIEFS

reline State Park

ESICN PRINCIPLES for a shoreline state park are given in
the master study plan for Bluff Point in Groton, Con-
icut. The study was made by Morton 5. Fine and Asso-
s of Bloomfield, Connecticut, an organization of con-
‘ ing engineers, landscape architects, and surveyors. The
‘ 'ect is noteworthy for several reasons:
{a he lands represent the last major undeveloped area along
'i Connecticut coastline.
ince 1648, the ownership of these lands has been trans-
' d only three times.
his is the largest state park along the eastern half of the
necticut shoreline.
«‘ he Bluff Point project has many important aspects. The
' - of Connecticut is represented by a strong contrast in
ldevelopment patterns. Highly urbanized metropolitan
unities along the western half of its Long Island Sound
-tline are contrasted by the more rural character of the
I ‘ rly half. This state, whose population has tripled since
0, now maintains the fourth highest population density
l he nation. This concentration of activity is most clearly
ent in the intensive land use extending from the New
T k border to New Haven and then proceeding northerly up
‘ Connecticut River Valley to Hartford. While the major
1c arteries have previously confined themselves to this
ridor, the Connecticut Turnpike and Interstate Route 95
v extend easterly to include the other population centers
ng the eoastline. This easterly half of the coast, there-
:2, must now anticipate an intensification of development
ures and population growth.
f the state’s total coastline of 253 miles, only seventy-two
les may be classified as beach lands. A mere nine miles of
ch are open to the public. Within this category lies the
te park system, represented by a composite six miles of
Ch.
' he lands surrounding Blufl' Point are clearly representa-
' of a site whose natural conditions offer a variety of
ections toward design. Within this site of 276 acres are
ented the full extremes of visitor interest. Basically, it
divided into two factors: the beach lowlands, and the
ky head'lands which climb the hillsides to overlook the
r from a sixty-foot height advantage. These hillsides
. covered with abundant vegetation: oaks, beech, and
_ ory trees provide a canopy to the smaller hawthorns and
beam. Providing further interest are the groupings of
ve viburnums and shad‘blow.
ollowing a course towards Long Island Sound, the land
es downward to end abruptly in a sudden plunge to the
er, thirty-five feet below. Here Bluff Point takes its
e. Providing accent to this Open protrusion of headland
natural groupings of bayberry, wild azaleas, and senti-
, -like junipers. Here, one can view the panorama of Long
' nd Sound as it sweeps in from the southwest to meet
gently curving beachlands.

         
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

l‘

CEHBER, 1965

Stretching some four thousand feet westward from the
bluff, the beach testifies to the force of storm waves which
have overtopped its gentle heights to carry valuable sand
into the Poquonock River behind it. This overwash has also
provided substance for a salt-water marsh and flood plain.
Important as a breeding ground for shellfish, the marsh and
its beautiful grasses offer a clean contrast to the adjacent
hillsides. Development of Blqu Point calls for a boat launch-
ing area, service areas, nature preserve area, visitors’ center,
beach lands stabilizing the headlands, providing a beach-

walk, picnicking and nature trails. all in keeping with the
region’s distinctive character.

Wilderness System

MILLIONS OF ACRES of nationally owned lands adminis-
tered by the Department of the Interior will be reviewed
“as critically and carefully as possible” under the new Wil-
derness Act, declares Secretary of the Interior Stewart L.
Udall. He indicated that only a fraction of the acreage to
be studied is eXpected to qualify for inclusion in the new
National Wilderness Preservation System. The measure was
signed into law by President Johnson on September 3, 1964.
It automatically placed more than 9,000,000 acres of na-
tionally owned land in wilderness status and provided for
review within the next ten years, of other millions of acres
managed by the Agriculture and Interior Departments as
possible additions to the system. These areas can be added
to the 9,000,000-acre Wilderness System only by vote of
Congress. The law provides that the President. acting Upon
the advice of his Cabinet officers, will recommend to Con-
gress any new areas.

All of the 9,000,000 acres automatically placed within
the system by enactment of the law is national forest land,
administered by the Forest Service of the Department of
Agriculture. Among the Interior-managed lands now in line
for review are areas within national parks and monuments
and national wildlife refuges and ranges.

The Wilderness Act permits public access by foot. on
horseback, or in canoes into wilderness areas, but it pro-
hibits intrusion by roads, motor vehicles, and related ma-
chinery, or commercial enterprises of any kind. No struc-
tures, buildings, or other devel0pmental facilities are to be
erected. Each area to be considered for inclusion in the
National Wilderness Preservation System would cover at
least five thousand acres or be of sufficient size to make its
preservation practicable. Areas included in the Wilderness
System would continue to be managed by the department
and agency that had jurisdiction over them prior to their
incorporation into the system. To qualify for inclusion. an
area or portion of an area must be identified as possessing
wilderness characteristics of such quality and extent as to
merit continued preservation in its original and unchanging

state.

491

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

CALIFORNIA. Governor Brown has signed into law As-

sembly Bill 371, which requires that boating facilities con-
structed with state aid include shoreside facilities for
purposes of emptying waste matter holding tanks on boats.
Also recently approved were acts which (1) regroup the
state boating agency, the California Small Craft Harbors
Division, with the divisions of Recreation and Beaches and
Parks in a Department of Parks and Recreation; (2) make
it a misdemeanor to temporarily use a motorboat or vessel
without the owner’s consent; i.e., joyriding; (3) eliminate
lifebelts from listed safety equipment required for persons
on undocumented vessels; and (4) provide for registration
without payment of fees of boats belonging to the federal
government.

0 Two newly acquired state park system units in Sonoma
and Napa Counties are now open to hikers and horseback
riders and both areas will be developed to permit vehicular
access and a variety of recreation uses as soon as possible.
The two units are the new 3,932-acre Austin Creek State
Recreation Area, adjacent to the north edge of Armstrong
Redwoods State Reserve at Guerneville, Sonoma County,
and the new 1,520-acre Sugar Loaf Ridge State Park which
straddles the Sonoma-Napa County line at the end of Adobe
Canyon Road out of Kenwood on Highway 12 in Sonoma
County.

MICHIGAN. The State Waterways Commission and the

Boating Control Committee have been caught up in a master
reorganization of state government aimed at boiling down
the number of administrative agencies. The legislature
abolished the State Waterways Commission, in charge of
construction of harbors of refuge around Michigan’s three
thousand miles of Great Lakes shoreline, inspection of livery
boats and vessels carrying passengers for hire, and the pres-
ervation of cruising waters. Its functions and duties are
transferred to the Conservation Department. The Boating
Control Committee, which is charged with the establishment
of specific regulations for specific lakes with the object of
achieving maximum uniformity, has been transferred intact
to the Conservation Department.

MISSOURI. A new law makes it illegal to discard rubbish

and litter in Missouri’s navigable streams and state parks.

492

   
 
   
   
  
    
    
   
  

State conservation agents and deputy boat commissio
are empowered to arrest litterbugs. An interim legislat
committee has been created to look into present and mu
needs for recreational opportunities in the state.

NEW YORK. The Long Island State Park Commission 1:
presented the town of Smithtown with a state check in 1
amount of $113,600, together with a state grant of fift
acres of land for a new town park and beach at the
boundary of Sunken Meadow State Park on Long Isla
Sound. In return, the town deeded to the state fifteen ac
of town lands within the present boundaries of the std.
park, together with certain improvements and a town r
which will become a part of the state park. The transacui
completes a plan of exchange authorized by the State Le '
lature and approved by the governor in 1963. .

These two projects highlight the many facets of ur
renewal today. It is no longer merely slum clearance,
a creative effort to further the economic and social pro
of our communities.

OHIO. The Park and Recreation Board and Mayor Da
L. Sanders proclaimed August 16-20 as “Park Dedica
Week” in Cuyahoga Falls. This occasion saw the dedicat'
of five completely new parks and the rededication of
improved park sites. This unusual community event

highlighted by a week of activities and events for all a
Developments on each site have varied but have follo
a “Master Plan for Park and Recreation Facilities.”

provement began with total site development including g
ing, sewers, sidewalks, parking lots, and landscaping. Re
ation facilities, such as shelters, restrooms, drinking f0
tains, tennis courts, basketball hardsurfaced areas, c
dren’s play equipment, picnic facilities, and special g
areas, were constructed and are now in use. Additi

improvements are still under way in many areas with s
projects to be completed between now and next spring.
highlight of the week was the dedication of Lion’s P
Lodge which will be available to the community as a y

round facility to supplement the programs at Galt P
Lodge.

WEST VIRGINIA. The neat, well-manicured emb

ments along state highways and the new trails in iis
and hunting areas are the work of some 618 youths of
Neighborhood Youth Corps. The youths worked for
Department of Natural Resources during the summe
fifty-six facilities in thirty-six counties. The work-tr
ing project, initiated by the Economic Opportunity
of "1964, provides useful work experience for unempl
young men and women through participation in state
community programs so employability may be incr

and education resumed or continued. The twelve-

summer program began June 1 and continued through
gust 21. The enrollees were between the ages of six
and twenty-one, unemployed, and from a family with
than a $3,000-a-year income. They worked thirty-two h
a week at $1.25 an hour.

RECREA

 

  
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
 

F. aning, A.S.L.A.

BASS-CUTTING equipment comes in
a variety of sizes ranging from
eh power mowers to the huge trac-
es that can tow as many as eleven
;. for a 25-foot swath, and also come
a vast assortment of accessories
other maintenance chores. The
,: ent should be suited to the job
supposed to do, and the size of the

Hand-pushed power mowers are
l for smaller confined grass areas,
e the larger equipment should be
idered for the larger, unbroken ex-
5 of lawn.

i rger, self-contained up-front mow-
machines make possible a quick,
'ty cut of large areas because they
- a smooth surface with no wheel
s. Because the cutting units are
in front of the operator, they also
a greater operating safety on park

ds.

ultipurpose equipment should be
'dered, such as tractors which can
an assortment of attachments in
tion to mowing. Yearaound main-
we also should be a factor in selec-
of equipment which will not only
grass in summer, but can spread
lizer in spring, clean up the grounds
ll, and clear snow in winter.

ime studies (by J acobsen) have re-
d some interesting comparisons of
savings with power equipment
hand tools. Also, some compari-
.. between different types of power
5 to show how proper use of power
pment and manpower can save
-hours and reduce maintenance
ets. For instance, some of these
studies showed that grass raking
times faster with a power sweeper.
t one snow thrower is worth twenty
with snow shovels, and that trim.
; with power is twenty times faster
by hand.

e time study showed how the use
large capacity machine can be
more economical than the use of
ral smaller units. The test areas
- three park sites of a large Midwest
. The comparison studies were made
/ five-gang front-mowing unit and

BRUNING is landscape architect
uitant for the Iaeobsen Manufac-
- Company, Racine, Wisconsin. This
rial is taken from a speech given
 1964 Annual Conference of the

icon Institute of Park Executives.

.MBER, 1965

NCERNING UPKEEP

LTIPURPOSE EQUIPMENT FOR ALL SEASONS

of three tractors towing three gang
mowers.

The findings were very conclusive.
The five-gang machine completed the
job in twelve and a half hours, while
the smaller units took twenty-one and
a half manhours. The bigger machine
took almost half the time, and yet its
initial cost was only half that of the
other three units. Add to this the fact
that three smaller units would take more
than twice the amount of maintenance
as the bigger, single unit, and you can
see the economy of selecting the larger
machine.

Smaller equipment—mowers, trim-
ming equipment, et cetera—has its place
in the maintenance program, but for
large park areas, economy in mainten-
ance is achieved with large equipment
rather than with numerous smaller
pieces which take more people, more
time to do the same job, and require

\

 

Published as a public service I
In cooperation with The Advertising Council

 

more maintenance, more gas, more oil

and more storage area.

At the same time, we are recommend-
ing “large enough" equipment, we want
to caution against becoming “over-
powered.” In other words, do not send
your biggest piece out to cut a small,
confined area which would be like ham-
mering a nail home with a pile driver.
A well-balanced maintenance depart-
ment will have equipment to cfliciently
handle the various maintenance require-
ments posed by its grounds.

The moral here is for park adminis~
trators and maintenance people to keep
abreast of the equipment available and
properly fit it to the job. Multi-site use
of equipment also should be considered.
Most of the large lawn maintenance
vehicles today have highway transport
gears so they can swiftly move from one
site to another.

Many parks report that increasing
mechanization of their maintenance
function has permitted them to take on
the care of bigger and more complex
grounds without the necessity of adding
personnel.

Wm! enema LAYOUT and proper
application of materials, many

difficult and time consuming park main.
tenance problems can be eradicated or
appreciably reduced. Here are some of
the more obvious recommendations for
reducing maintainance:

0 Provide for continuous mowing by
avoiding sharp comers and angles on
grounds and in plant beds.

0 Locate water outlets conveniently.
Handling of excessive lengths of hose
should not be required to water lawn
and plant beds. The absolute minimum
in maintenance would be an automatic
sprinkler system.

0 Provide free movement of mainte
nance equipment from one area to an-
other and from one level to another.
All roads, walks, ramps. and entrances
should be planned wide enough to
easily accommodate equipment.

0 Keep lawn areas clear of unneces-
sary obstructions. Where possible,
keep shrubs, plant beds and other ob-
structions out of lawn areas in order to
achieve continuous mowing pattern.

0 Keep grass surfaces flush with
paved areas such as walks. roads,
playgrounds, parking lots, to prevent
unnecessary trimming and provide
easier movement of maintenance re-
hicfes.

0 Avoid hand trimming around trees
bv use of grass barrier or metal edging.
Will also eliminate tree damage from
mower.

0 Use flush paving around lawn ob-
structions. This can eliminate trimming
and thereby speed up mowing in rela-
tively large areas with obstructions such
as utility vent pipes, hydrants, et cetera.

493

 

PROGRAM

Neuropsychiatric hospital expands recreation program

Emanuel J. Jacobs

SOCIAL DANCE can give neuropsychia-

tric patients a renewed lease on
life. In a modern hospital setting, soon-
er or later the various therapies meet
and become integrated in their common
objective: accelerating the patient’s re-
covery and rehabilitation. Recreation,
as one of these, plays a major role in
the morale of the patient. This role is related to the patient’s
mental, physical, emotional, and social adjustments, inside
the hospital and later in the community. As a recreation
activity, social dance assists in the rehabilitation process.

In the normal community setting, social dance had dem-
onstrated time and again its value as a pleasurable activity,
as a social asset, and as a healthy means of recreation and
exercise. With a little modification and planned effort by
the recreation leader, social dance can be adapted in the
hospital program with even more beneficial results for the
patient who is mentally ill, by providing another worthy out-
let for the patient’s energies and need for motivation.

At the Veterans Administration Hospital in Montrose,
New York, an 1800-bed neuropsychiatric hospital, the rec-
reation therapist who directs a comprehensive recreation
program for the female veterans observed that these patients
responded readily to most forms of social activities. As a
result, a social dance class was started in the large recreation
room of the women’s building. This has proved quite suc-
cessful.

The following objectives were set up:

0 To provide a suitable medium for a pleasant emotional
experience which would aid in calming and relaxing emo-
tionally disturbed individuals.

0 To develop a good rapport between patient and therapist,
and to improve relationships and more personal interaction
between patient and patient.

9 To help overcome a feeling of loneliness and isolation,
and to develop group feeling.

0 To reach the patient who might not otherwise be accessi-

 

 

MR. JACOBS is a hospital recreation specialist for the Veter-
ans Administration Hospital in Montrose, New York.

494:

SOCIAL DANCE

   
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
    
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
 

AN AID

ble, to catch her interest and to channel it into a soci
ceptable activity that is not threatening.

0 To revive an old skill and to learn some of th
dances and dance patterns, thus developing more con
and poise during the learning process.

0 To add variety to the recreation program and for ,
patient participation.
0 To improve physical condition, muscular coordi
and to develop a better understanding of how the \
dance rhythms are expressed through the movem
the feet.

0 To gain further insight into the personality diHicult '
inhibitions of each participant.

0 To improve communication, whether verbal or non
0 To provide a social activity with carryover value
future.

0 To develop an esthetic appreciation of life and p
pride in one’s appearance, and to gain a healthy a
and approach toward social interaction.

The female patients in the dance class are mostly o
schizophrenics, with various levels of mental illnes '
range in age from the twenties through the seventi
gardless of diagnosis or nature of the severity and st
recovery, all patients are encouraged to join in the
dance session. Approximately sixty-five female v
who participate in recreational activities assemble
large recreation room on the main floor of the w
building. The remainder of the patients are bedrid .
wheelchairs, busy at a work assignment or engaged i
therapy activities.

up

  

AS THE PATIENTS enter the recreation room, soft,
ing music is played on a record player to set the
such as “The Most Beautiful Music in the World” by
Strings, or music by Percy Faith or Mantovani. Afte ‘
greeted by the therapist, the patients are invited to ta
in a variety of recreation activities, such as table ..
Scrabble, Monopoly, Chinese checkers, picture I
cards, and other games of their choice; also Pin
quoits, and table shufHeboard. Those who desire to ,
pate in the dance class, or just to observe, are directe

REC

  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
    
  

4
Q
1

end of the recreation room. Some of the patients enjoy
.hatting or reading.

-- the group is settled at their chosen activity, dance
ction begins. As the dance music is played, it oftens
ns pleasant associations for some patients; they iden-
emselves with some past enjoyable social experience.
restrictions are laid down as to the number who may
.the class. Usually, from six to nine patients are ready
ce. As instruction proceeds, more patients become
~ ted, wander into the class, and before long from
- to fifteen patients are dancing enthusiastically.
dances taught are the old American standbys: the
t and waltz, the Latin American rhumba, tango and
a, and the more recent dances such as the merengue,
pnd bossa nova. Of these, the ones that have proved
opular are the fox trot, rhumba, cha-cha and twist.
ure and correct body form, relaxation, prOper hold,
'on of movements, direction, follow-through, dancing
omplete abandonment, body carriage, style, and rhy-
te stressed. A brief history and origin of each dance
‘. ained. After the basic steps are mastered, more ad-
: patterns are added. A chart is kept on the different
. and the names of the steps, to which the patients may
This facilitates the learning process and the chart list

‘ c
.:;row1ng.

astonally, for variety and creating interest, a record
I 'ed with the rhythms of different dances. A quiz is
:‘u see how many of the dances and rhythms the patients
ognize. How they are related to the movements of
t is demonstrated, and soon the patients become bet-
nted as they practice the basic patterns. What patients
arned through moving together and sharing makes
stimulating activity. They forget any differences in
ge or background, and prejudices diminish as they
nderstanding based on a mutual appreciation. Social
then becomes a language of feelings, and is expressed
ing to the mood of the individual which is generally
t ed.
nts may drOp in or out of the class as they like. Us-
.—. least half the class remains for the entire period.
. L ipllasis is on informality and a relaxed atmosphere.

.4

~ v

BER, 1965

. ABILITATIUN

 

This class is different from most dance classes in that no
male patients are permitted in the women's building during
this period. The reason is that the entire group of female
patients must be treated, including those not in the dance
class but in the same area, and the presence of male patients
at this time might create problems. Therefore, those patients
who have mastered the step, dance the male part with other
members of the class. This practice gives the leader a better
understanding of the man’s part and makes it easier for her
to follow in the normal dance setting. Of course, the import-
ance of allowing the man to lead when she is dancing with
a man is stressed.

Regular dances and dance parties are held periodically for
all areas of the hospital in the social hall of the recreation
building, sponsored by voluntary groups. During these
times, and also in their own building when special activities
are held, the female patients may dance with male patients
or male volunteers.

THERE 15 no standard rule for motivating the patient’s
' activity. Usually, the informal approach, coupled with
encouragement and humor does the trick. Occasionally,
when a patient is bewildered or restless, simply leading her
by the hand with a smile and a kind word will be sufficient to
start the patient in the activity. A case in point: a patient
who had not spoken for months, was aloof, and kept to her-
self most of the time, was staring into space on the sidelines
of the class. Her legs were crossed while the upper leg and
foot were keeping time to the music. Observing this, the
therapist led her by the hand to the class as she continued
staring. Before long, she identified with the group and was
participating. When class was over, she smiled for the first
time in months and said, “Thank you, I enjoyed it!” And
so a gap had been closed, and the patient reached. Appar-
ently, this little release had eased her emotional conflict and
a new rapport had been established between patient and
therapist. Also, participation in the dance class had proved
to be more than a mere recreation activity. The human in-
teraction is always the prime consideration, more import-
ant than any activity for activity’s sake.

It is evident that the instructor must proceed with the
concept that the patient in therapy may be quite removed
from contact with others, that, in fact. she is a “Society of
One,” who best communicates with only imaginary friends
or enemies, and that her social functioning is either limited
or suspended. The “Society of One" becomes a “Society of
Two” when the patient can relate to the therapist. As more
people are involved with the patient, such as nursing assist-
ants, student nurses and volunteers, whenever practical, the
therapist adds to this small society by using techniques cal-
culated to help the patient gain new confidence in her ability
to deal with problems of interpersonal relationships and re-
socialization. The therapist must know when the patient is
ready for the next step, no matter how small this step may
be. By the same token. the therapist must know when the
patient is not ready. lie must experiment and explore dif-
ferent therapeutic individual approaches. Techniques and
procedures which allay fears and anxieties are structured
toward developing pride in one's self. encouraging self-con-

495

fidence, self-respect and self-esteem. Patients will partici-
pate if they have therdesire to do so, possess the minimum
ability, and are emotionally ready to take part.

ALITTLE HUMOR injected here and there, and some praise
as the patients make progress go a long way in stimu-
lating the patient into continued activity. Most of these
patients do not have an interest span of any length or ex-
tended emotional tolerance. Whether they‘ are withdrawn,
assaultive, exhibitionistic, catatonic, overactive, etcetera,
they respond to a greater or lesser degree in expressing their
emotions. They may simply verbalize, show joy, free their
body in expressive, rhythmic movements, express enthusi-
asm, reflect a new confidence, are less apathetic. Generally,
they become more relaxed and more cooperative. It may be
concluded that, when the patients return to their wards or go
to other therapy later in the day, they are more amenable to
the new activity. The patients who attend the dance class
are usually the ones who are more apt to dance whenever
dances or social parties are sponsored by voluntary groups

 

BEFORE IT

HAPPENS . .

Bulb-snatchers
turn outdoor Christmas
lights into
death trap

ONE OF THE pleasures of my family
during the Christmas season is
the drive we take through the various
nearby neighborhoods to view the ef-
forts of the homeowners in decorating
for the holidays. Sometimes we are
amazed to find that we have so many
ingenious people living in such close
proximity. '“Oh, look at that!” and
“0000!” are the comments from both
young and younger.

Considering the pleasure derived
from such a simple outing and from
the eager anticipation of preparing for
Christmas and stringing up. our own
lights for the enjoyment of ourselves
and others, it came as a great jolt to

496

 
  
 

° ea
f/fgé 0

us to realize suddenly this year the po-
tential danger of the outdoor Christmas
lights. Tragedy lurks there unless pre-
caution is taken to prevent it.

It seems that “bulb-snatching” is be-
coming more and more prevalent each
year, and with the bulb-snatching comes
the problem of open sockets. This year
when my husband went out to “de-
decorate” our house, he returned abso-
lutely pale. Five bulbs were missing
from in front of the garage. It was not
the petty thievery that paled him——
three of those empty sockets were up-
turned and filled with water. Instant
death awaited the inquisitive child who
might have stuck a finger in one of

in a normal dance setting, more in keeping with comm
life. At this time, the female patients demonstrate
social poise, confidence, and react quite normally in a
respect. Both female and male patients make a special .
to appear at their best, wearing their best clothes, the
cleanly shaven, the women in party hairdos. Manne
improved and conversation is of general interest.

As a part of the recreation program, social dance a
a therapeutic aid offering the individual a means of r
herself to the environment. Feelings of isolation, fea
anxiety, and lack of understanding are reduced, a
patient may enter into the activity in a satisfying mann
due time becoming part of a group situation.

In developing an awareness not only of herself, but :
around her as well, social dance offers a pleasant ave
expression leading to social satisfaction, a physio
emotional release, and helps the patient to enrich h
both inside the hospital and in later community lif

this contributes to the practical purposes of recreatio
rehabilitation. #

 
  
   
    
  
   
   
    
     
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
  

those sockets to investigate. 0r
tim could even have been my hu
had he not been aware of the sec
electricity.

I mentioned this at the last ex
board meeting of the Earl E. '4
Parent-Teachers’ Association.
obvious by the expression on th
about me that this thought had
curred to them before. Our pr'
actually shuddered. He also ha
ing light bulbs this year. “Wh
said, “they wouldn’t even have
wet, if the child were standing .
grass!”

Whether you have or haven’t t
of this potential danger before,
seech you to mention it to your
chairman as possible programin
rial for next fall. As a side res
haps we can impress upon the c i.
that “bulb-snatching” is actuall I
thievery and a criminal offense 5
to punishment by the law.

It is not my desire to prom
banning of outdoor decorations-
elimination of Christmas lightS'
ever, let’s educate our parents a
dren about this potential danger
sake of safety, schrity and s
Mas. PAUL SATUR in California ‘
Teacher, March 1965.

REC

 

L J PROGRAM

 

* DAPT SPORTS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS

When participants cannot fit
the demands of standard rules,

then new rules should be established

Regulation sports may be adapted to
t many special needs: from boys
u young for Little League to those in
ir pot-bellied forties, too huffy and
y [or strenuous workouts; for the
and handicapped and for the aged.
re are some adaptations that have
- ed successful.

OR-HOCKEY

OMBINE a gymnasium or all-purpose
room floor, twelve hockey sticks,
equal amount of active children, and
uck, and you have the ingredients of
reat indoor recreation activity. Two
ls, four by four and one foot deep
de of wood or light piping and netted
h obsolete tennis netting, make up
r equipment.
or-hockey, recently introduced to
children of Radburn, New Jersey,
caught fire fast and has made giant
'des of incorporating the teenagers
0 its grasp.
' n initial purchase must be made of
lve hockey sticks, either the type
h a no-mark laminated fiberglass
de or regular hockey sticks with an
inary heavy woolen sock put over
blade. In both cases, these sticks
uld not mark the floor. Pucks made
a heavy, round sponge, cut to regu-
'on size and painted with regular
'nt on each side, carry well, have
*at sliding ability, and do not hurt
n contact. A goal-tender’s stick can
purchased and is preferred over a
ulation stick.
here is no need for padding equip-
nt as the puck does not hurt; but to
rd off an occasional blow on the shin,
e boys place double-folded maga-
es secured by tape or heavy elastic
their shins. Some players find that
wearing of gloves makes stick han-

CEMBER, 1965

 

dling easier, but this is a matter of
choice.

Flor-hockey played in sneakers fol-
lows the same pattern and standard
rules of ice hockey with a few improvi-
sations on the rules and regulations. A
center, two forwards or wings, two de-
fense men, and a goalie make up a start-
ing team. Penalties in minutes are cut
from two to one minute, since the pe-
riods of play are ten minutes instead
of the usual twenty. Activity is fast and
exciting, so it is highly recommended
that one or two qualified supervisors
referee the game. Substitutions can be
of a rotary nature or made by team
captains when play is dead or a goal is
scored.

Teams are chosen on grade levels or
age categories and divided to balance
one another for closer competition.
Flor-hockey is so invigorating and
quick moving that, in many instances,
players want substitutes; therefore,
teams may carry as many as twelve
players.

A clinic on the fundamentals of hock-

ey and its various rules is suggested,
with emphasis on high sticking and
checking into the boards and the charg-
ing rule. No stick may be carried or
used with its blade above the waist, and
no checking is permitted unless within
a two-foot area of one another. Need-
less to say, this is to prevent injury and
is easy to enforce with proper supervi-
sion.

A successful hockey league, with
standings, statistics, and playoffs stimu-
lates interest, and can, as it has in Bad-
burn, challenge basketball as the num-
ber-one winter gym activity.—ROBERT
FRALICK, Manager, Radburn Associa-
tion, Radburn, New Jersey.

TEE BASEBALL
D URING the 1964 summer playground

season, the Playground and Rec-
reation Commission in Springfield. Il-
linois, organized what we call the Tee
Baseball League. Many of the parents
and baseball men in this area had
voiced their feeling that a good many
of the boys participating in organized
baseball leagues did not have an oppor-
tunity to learn to hit properly and to
make the defensive plays in game sit-
uations, because the pitcher simply fired
the ball past the batters. This was one
of the primary reasons for organizing
Tee Baseball. The boys hit a regular
baseball off a rubber telescopic batting
tee, thus teaching each boy the correct
way to hit, and also giving the defense
a chance to make a play on each boy
who comes to hat.

The league is composed of boys aged
eight through ten. Each playground di-
rector places the boys on teams to in-
sure equality of teams. The director
of the league is one of the local high-
school coaches. \Ve make sure that all

497

RISERS
STAGES
SHELLS

Be sure . . . Buy
from the leader!

The Wenger Corporation specializes in
designing products for the performing
arts. Wenger's creative engineering de-
veloped the famed “modular concept"—
Result: Wenger products are adaptable,
durable, and attractive. . . They set up and
take down with amazingly little time and
effort. . . They require minimum storage
space. Wenger products carry a full war-
ranty against defects in materials and
craftsmanship.

Phone or write today for:

- detailed information on hand, orchestra,
seated chorus, or standing chorus risers

- detailed information on portable indoor, out-
door, or mobile stages

0 detailed information on choral, symphonic, or
mobile acoustical shells

- planning assistance_for improving your per-
forming area, or desrgnlng a new one

- complimentary copy of new book entitled,
“Performing Area Acoustics"

- l_965-66 complete line catalogue, including
risers, stages, shells, chair-stands. etc.

0 information regarding our custom design con-
struction servrce

l f P I I m I I T [ 0"

33A Wenger Bldg., Owafonna, Minn. 55060
Telephone 507-451-3010

 

ox!

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm op
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for Natlonal's
free catalog of all-time hit songs, available in slide
form for as low as 50¢ a tune!

Need a projectOr? Let us know . . . we'll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. mc.
42 West 48th Street, N. Y. 36. N. Y.

 

 

THE PERFECT PACKAGED SHELTER!

l - ‘ runny”
M, y/AM ,

v
a

KWlK-BILT, INC. is... 6834, Dallas i9.rex.

 
 

1'98 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

    

 
   

understand the purpose of the league,
to teach baseball and give participants
an opportunity to enjoy the game.
Listed below are the rules:

1. Each team consists of nine players
stationed as in organized baseball.

2. Bats should meet Little League re-
quirements.

3. Regular baseballs are used.

4. Bases should be no more than
sixty feet.

5. Gloves are to be worn by each
player. ’A

6. Shoes with rubber cleats, or tennis
shoes should be worn.

7. Each player has two swings to try
to hit the ball each time at hat.

8. If the batter either fouls the ball
twice or misses the ball or any com-
bination, he is declared out.

9. No bunting is allowed.

10. The catcher removes the batting
tee after each play. Players will not be

injured should they run into the rubber
batting tee.

11. Games are six innings long.

12. Each team completes an inning
when the team makes three outs or when
the team has had nine men at bat.

13. Runners may lead off, but not
more than six feet.

14. The batting tee should be adj ust-

ed each inning.

This is a simple game, and the boys
enjoyed it tremendously. The parents
also expressed their approval. Very lit-
tle equipment is needed: only bats,
halls, and a rubber telescopic batting
too. This may be obtained from most
high schools. We do not have a time
limit on the game since we expect our
directors to stop the game to give the
boys instructions at any time—HER-
SCHEL J. MOORE, Superintendent, Play-

ground and Recreation Commission,“

Springfield, Illinois.

QUIRK BALL

ANOTHER GAME for boys too young
(six to eight) for Little League

play is Quirk Ball, which is very popu-
lar with youngsters at Sewart Air Force
Base in Tennessee.

Rules: Little League (except for the
following) :

1. Ball is placed on a batting tee by
the umpire at home plate.

2. Pitcher takes his ’position on

 
  

mound the same distance away as Lit
League.

3. Ball is in play when the batter hi“
the ball beyond a twenty-five-foot rat.
dius from home plate in fair territo jli
(to eliminate the bunt) . a

4. A ball that does not go twenty-f
feet is a strike.

5. If the batter should miss the u
on the tee he is out and is charged w
a strikeout.

6. Infielders, the pitcher, and catc
may field a ball within the twenty-f1
foot radius, and if they do the hall
in play.

7. Fifteen players on a team and
play every inning.

8. Each player bats every inn'
and the side is completed when ev
player has been at bat.

9. Put-outs do not count.

10. Base runners cannot leave

base until the ball is hit.
11. Infield Hy rule is not followed.
12. Runs are scored as usual.
13. After the last batter has hit
ball and the ball is returned to the
pire, the teams will change positi
14. All players are in the field i
the extra players in the outfield.
15. If the teams do not have the sa
number of players, the team with
greater number of players bats aro
once per inning, and the team with
smaller number of players will bat
equal number of times as the oppos
team, with the next batter due up of
the inning is completed becoming :
lead-off batter in the next inning.
16. When the last batter is out
first base, any runs scored on the p
do not count.

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
    
  
  
    
   
    
    
   
  

17. After play has st0pped and
is being returned to the umpire,
runners cannot advance.

18. One coach will be allowed on
field to help direct his team, and he i
stand in front of his dugout.

0 For further adaptations, see “B
off-the-Tee," Recreation, May T9
"5 Pitch Baseball," December T9
“Lifesaving with a Realistic Touc
March T964; “Slo-Break Basketba
September T964; “The Snows
League," September T964; “Chang
Silhouettes in Sports,” September o
October T963; “Giving Baseball B
to the Boys,” May T963; “Pot-Bell
Basketball," September T963; “5| uh!
Pitch Boom,” October T963; “Wh "
chair Bowling," September T963; 0 ,
HSenior Adult Basketball," May T9 .

RECREAT‘

1 race Ann Voss

HE AUDIENCE of college students,
dressed comfortably in shorts
and sneakers, leans over the re-

training balcony railing to watch six
irls in gold, sequin-studded swimming
uits step to the side of the swimming
ool. The “Golden Girls” pause mo-
1entarily to wait for their musical cue
nd then begin their performance. They
ive into water, quickly form two
raight lines, and stroke rhythmically

the music. Up the pool they swim to
reak and form different floating pat-
rns.

Supporting themselves on the surface
f the water they form first a star and
mm a circle. As the music builds to its
imax, the six mermaids splash their
:_ up above the water and disappear
neath the surface. The lights dim to
gnify the end of their performance.

These girls have just performed one
f a series of acts in a college water-

allet show, “Mo-Maids in Water Col-

M

r, staged by thirty members of the
niversity of Missouri Swim Club.
roof of the current popularity of the
sort, the “Mo-Vlaids” are representa-
ve of sixty-five per cent of colleges and
igh schools which offer synchronized
'imming as part of their physical edu-
tion program for women.
The actual term synchronized swim-
ing was not introduced on a school
mpus, however. It was first coined
the 1934 Chicago World’s Fair. As
e sport increased its growth, the Ama-
lur Athletic Union, in December 1940,
nendcd its swimming rules to include
nchronized swimming. The follow-
ng year it published a list of degrees of
ilheulty for stunts in competition, thus

 

l 155 VOSS, a journalism graduate of the
niversity of Missouri, is now a re-
- rter on the Palo Alto Times, I’alo
110, California.

consume, 1965

 

insuring continued interest in this form
of water ballet. .

The secret of its continued popularity
is found in its creative possibilities.
Whether it means a search for a crea-
tive theme as a base for a water show,
or a chance to incorporate creative
stunts in a swimming number, girls en-
joy the challenge of blending their
swimming skills with music to present
an original performance.

Water-ballet teams choose a theme

 

MO-MAIDS
IN THE SWIM

University water ballerinas
stage colorful aqua shows

tion. Composing a group number, a
solo, or a duet offers unlimited creative
possibilities. Ever try to choreograph
a musical number to include swimming
strokes and stunts? It is not easy, but
it is interesting and fun. The choreog-
rapher first must select music adaptable
to the central theme. For instance, in
the “Water Color” show, one duet chose
a lively musical arrangement for their
number, “Yeller Yokels.” A trio chose
a band march medley for their patriotic

V

The term synchronized swimming was first coined at the 1934 Chicago
World’s Fair. "ere, University of Missouri coeds show star pattern.

several months before the opening date.
of a performance -preferably one
which is original and adaptable to dif-
ferent kinds of music and costumes.
Missouri’s Mo-Maids select their theme
in December for April’s show. In past
years they have chosen a newspaper
theme. “Mo-Maids Make Headlines,"
and a collegiate theme, “Mo-Maids on

Campus.”
Creativity extends beyond title selec-

prescntation, “Tri-Color Salute." A so-
loist selected a delicate musical arrange-
ment for her “Silver Sculptor” number.
And so on. Variations are limited to
the. imagination of the. participants.
Once the music is selected, the fun
begins. Swim-club members eongregatc
in an} empty room whieh offers a rec-
nrd player and lots of room to move
around and simulate swimming strokes
and stunts. They must decide what

499

 
 

 

stunts to perform and which strokes to
swim and when to integrate the two.
It is a formidable task, and it might
sound like this:

“Let’s put in a submarine here, where
the music builds to a crescendo.”

“N o, I have trouble sculling back up
to the surface on that stunt.”

“Well, practice!”

The swimmer who confessed difficul-
ty in doing a submarine will agree that
different stunts are adaptable to differ-
ent levels of skill. For instance, the be-
ginning synchronized swimmer sticks

IT’S " Hm .~ ,rws “SAFE  ,

    

26’ High, 11' Diameter.

to simple sculling movements. To do
this, she lies flat in the water and sup-
ports herself on the surface by firming
the water with her hands. In this way,
she propels herself forward or back-
ward. This position is the starting point
for other stunts of varying degrees of
difficulty.

A swimmer who has developed her
water-ballet skills can try a back dol-
phin, a graceful and popular stunt. Be-
ginning in a back layout position (here
we go again), the swimmer arches her
back and sculls with sweeping arm

 

.;. if

<
(1;.

 

   

RUSH ORDER NOW

for immediate delivery

ONLY $1,490.

Call Game-Time collect: Area Code

' . y  -_-““ 517 542-2345. Ask Bob Wormser
’_ 9 ‘kft‘ about Game-Time's FREE photo

a " * " layout playground planning

....

.9
I

.4
h

616 Jonesville Road, litchfield, Michigan

500

service.

  ‘fu'll    ' .
. . I  ,.,,..  ' '_ “" .

   
  

- MS'D'ARY 0F SIMPSON Messrssiuaa‘s, ,_     ..

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

movements to rotate her body, in it:
arched position, down and around in
360-degree turn until she returns to h
starting position.

To perform a submarine, the swim
mer assumes a ballet leg position (11
extended straight up above the water
submerges her body and vertical 16
and then sculls back to the surface I
the water. It is hard to perform sin:
the upward motion must be swift ar-
sure. While the body sinks easily tl}
swimmer must exert as much energy q.
rise to the surface as an out-of—sha'p
athlete straining to do pushups.

The value of proper choreographyi
apparent to experienced performei
who do not incorporate stunts whivll
they know will be difiicult to perforn
But that does not mean their problenl'
are ended once they have worked 01-.
their number on paper. It still must 1
“put in the water,” and this step 0
many times a source of confusion as
dismay. Swimmers discover, to tha-
chagrin, that the timing which workd
so perfectly on land is not right in th

  
   
 

water.

And so changes must be made, wita,
each participant airing her views 0
how the number should be composea
lnevitably, the number survives tll
water test and the performers begin t-I
practice their routines. Anytime tlI'
pool is available, the swimmers congrtl
gate, for the moment when all practic-
must end is fast approaching.

For the Mo-Maids this moment coma
in early spring. Just as the harsh coll
of winter gives way to soft spring shoxI
ers, the long hours of practice give \an
to opening-night butterflies. Inevitablg‘
the audience arrives at the pool arl
settles comfortably. The lights dim am
the locker room is a place of organism:
confusion. Nervously making lal
minute costume adjustments, the git.
line up for the first number. Anxioui
they enter the pool and begin their nu
ber. Hesitant at first, they soon be
their familiar musical cues. Th
strokes become uniform, their stu
precise. Once again, the audience
treated to a spectacle of swimmi
skills, rhythmic movements, and col
ful patterns. Once again, it enjoys the
graceful beauty it has come to expeq
from this group of synchronized swilii'
mers performing well the sport th1

love. #
RECREATH‘

  
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
  

  

l”

N MEXICO, no party is a real party
without a pinata, and especially
Christmas. Originally, the pinata
as made of unglazed pottery, often in
- shape of a bird or animal, gaily
- orated, filled with goodies and
iniature gifts. Blindfolded children
ould take turns trying to break the
'iiata with along stick, while a grown-
p would make it more exciting by
'sing and lowering the pir'iata as it
ng from a tree or ceiling. When
me lucky child broke it, the goodies
uld fall out and the children would
've for them, trying to get as many as
ossible for themselves.
' Pinatas are such fun that their use
‘ spread. Nowadays, piiiatas made

of paper or papier-

 

méiché can be bought
at Mexican and special-
ty shops; but why not
make your own? Here
are some directions and
sketches. Notice how

5
the pifiata can be de-
signed for any special
liday or event—Christmas, Thanks-
iving, birthday, etcetera.

The pifiatas suggested here all use
rge paper bags, supermarket type,
. the base. They can be decorated
ith tissue paper, cotton, paints, cray-
iS, cellophane—almost any thing that
an be sewed, glued, or stapled to the
1 n r. They will not hurt anyone when
t y break, so they are much safer than

ttery ones.

1. Fill a sturdy paper bag of any
-ired size about half full of hard-
. lled nuts, wrapped candy, gum, and
iniature gifts and other goodies. (Use
0 bags, one inside the other, for an
pecially strong pinata.)

2. Tie off the goodies with a strong

rd. Then tie the ends of the cord into
loop a foot or two above
piiiata. It will hang
- om this loop eventually.

3. Stuff the upper part
the bag with wedded

    
  
 

 

CEMBER, 1965

l

 

, INATAS FOR PARTIES

newspaper, excelsior, cotton, or other
filler, and tie off the t0p. Pad the bag
to any desired shape by pasting or tying
folded or rolled newspaper into posi-
tion, stitching with a curved needle, if
necessary, or using a strong glue or
stapling.

4. Hang the pinata from the l00p to
see if it balances correctly. Notice that
in the case of the chicken, turkey and
fly the bags are on their sides. Adjust
the cord if necessary. 1
In some designs, put
the goodies in the mid-
dle, pad both ends, and  “

use two cords.

5. Cover the padded bag with appro-
priate colored tissue paper, pasting into
place.

 

6. Cut long strips of tissue paper
about three inches wide, fold length-
wise, and cut into fringe. These will
make bird feathers.

7. Lay the pifiata upsidedown and
paste the tissue paper strips around and
around, beginning at the bottom of the
bag (uppermost) and working down-
ward toward the top, with the fringe
hanging down. When the paste has
dried, turn the bird right side up, and
the fringe will curl downward in a
feathery effect.

8. In the case of the snowman, cover
the bag with cotton, pasted on and rein-
forced with white thread. Use raisins
for his features and buttons.

Each pifiata calls for different finish-
ing details, some of which are listed
below:

1. Fly’s wings: cellophane stretched
over wire frames and “veined” with
lndia ink.

2. Chicken feathers, beaks, snow-
inan’s hat: construction paper.

3. Turkey tail feathers: an arc of
strong cardboard, painted with poster
paint and stitched, glued or
stapled into place.

. _ 4-. Snowman’s pipe: dime-
' . store bubble pipe.
5. Fly’s legs: wire wrapped

h ‘ .
3%.“

 

with thick yarn.

6. Owl’s wings: cardboard covered
with crepe paper.

The finished pifiata should be sus-
pended by attaching its loop of cord to
a rope suspended from something high:
a rafter, or tree perhaps, or a hook
fastened into the ceiling. The master of
ceremonies should be able to raise or
lower the pinata as the blindfolded
player swings his bat. A paper-bag
pinata can be remarkably strong and
can withstand many swats. Do not
make it too strong, however, especially
when the children are young. After all,
the object is to break itl—Bmv Loxs
ECKGREN, Los Angeles, California.

0 Be sure the Birthday Child knows
what will happen to the pinata. We
remember an awful day when the B.C.
was found in a corner, sobbing her
heart out, because her beautiful cow-
boy pinata had been ruined! So was

the birthday partyi—Ed.

 

Roll Your Own!

You CAN have a scrap-happy Christ-
mas if you have saved those
cardboard rolls from such household
items as paper towels, aluminum foil.
toilet tissue, et cetera, as well as the
stronger mailing tubes. Nan Bracker
of Houston suggests you decorate them
with Christmas gift paper, colored cel-
lophane tape, gay seals, and oddnients
and use them as seasonal gift boxes for
cookies, scarves, candy, and many other
items. Small-size tubes can be hung on
the tree. liows of them can be used for
favors or decorations. These tubes can
also he used as bodies for reindeer and

other animals.

501

NEW PUBLICATIONS

The Wild Cascades: Forgotten Park-
land, Harvey Manning. Sierra Club,
1050 Mills Tower, San Francisco 4. Pp.
128, illustrated. $20.00.

HE ELEVENTH VOLUME in the Sierra
Club’s exhibit format series, The
Wild Cascades: Forgotten Parkland by
Harvey Manning, with lines from Theo-
dore Roethke, has a foreword by Su-
preme Court Justice William 0. Doug-
las. Photographs are by Ansel Adams,
Philip Hyde, David Simons, Bob and
Ira Spring, Clyde Thomas, John Warth,
and others. Illustrated by beautiful pho-
tographic plates, the book carries the
reader into the last Of our primeval
landscapes: the Northern Cascades of
Washington. But for its remoteness, this
natural parkland would long ago have
been one of our greatest national parks.
The few who knew it found it without
peer. AS early as 1906, mountaineers
who visited the area suggested that the
North Cascades be placed in a national
park. And in the 1930’s a survey team
for the National Park Service concluded
that a national park in the Northern
Cascades could “outrank in its scenic,
recreational, and wildlife values any ex-
isting national park and any other pos-
sibility for such a park within the
United States.” Now in the 1960’s an-
other Park Service survey team has
corroborated this judgment.

Earlier failures to reSpond to the
judgments of those who knew the North
Cascades and knew they should have
been made secure within a national
park left the region no worse than it
had been. But the prospects for survival
have now changed—drastically. This
once remote region Of tangled alps and
deep-treed valleys is no longer remote.
Bulldozers have pushed up,the once
hidden valleys to let the chainsaws clear
the forests. The Forest Service, unable
to resist the pressures of the loggers,
has let the cutting climb to within less
than a mile of hanging glaciers. The
living matrix for this splendid parkland
is being extinguished. And the land
above timberline is not exempt from
exploitation either. Helicopters are fer-
rying in mining parties who are staking
vast areas in problematical claims. The
Forest Service is not empowered to stop
such mining in even the most priceless
part of this parkland.

Surely legal protection commensu-l

rate with the grandeur of this area can
be accorded. A law establishing a na-

tional park there can provide this pro-
tection. The Wild Cascades makes it

302

clear why this protection is needed, and

why the nation must wait no longer.

Mammals of the World, Er'nest P.
Walker and Associates. Johns Hop-
kins Press, Baltimore, Maryland 21218.
Two volumes, pp. 1500. Boxed set,

$25.00.

OXED, beautifully printed and
bound, this set consists of Volume
I and Volume II of an encyclopedia. It
contains a remarkable collection Of
facts which the publishers say is un-
equalled elsewhere. More than eighteen
hundred photographs are used as de-
tailed illustrations. Data for each genus
include the vernacular name as well as
the scientific ones. Odd facts, not gen-
erally known, about familiar, as well as
unfamiliar, animals are now available
to the nature lover.

Volume I carries an extensive bibli-
ography, Volume II, an index; the end
papers Of both, convenient scales of
measurement. ( There is also a Volume
111, available separately for $12.50
which we are told is a classified bibli-
ography. We have not seen it. ) A com-
prehensive and up-to-date reference set,
this is excellent for all nature libraries
in whatever setting. high-school and
college classes, camp groups, nature
scientists, anyone “with zoological in-
terests, teachers and leaders of nature
groups.—D.D.

Dramatized Classics for Radio-Style
Reading, (Vol. 1 ), Lewy Olfson. Plays,
Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston 16,
Massachusetts. Pp. 244. $4.00.

T'IERE ARE often times and places
when production of plays is not
possible, but when a dramatization by
reading can give great satisfaction to
the group. This collection of twelve
dramatizations is varied enough for
any group. It includes several classics,
such as Oliver Twist, The Odyssey, and

Canterbury Tales. It also includes the
chilling Invisible Man by H. G. Wells.

Sherlock Holmes and the Red-Headed

League, and other favorites. Used as
training in reading and radio tech-
niques or as a way to make literature
“come alive,” this royalty-free ma-
terial has definite value.-—-V.M.

IN BRIEF

DESIGNS FOR A FAMILY CHRISTMAS,

Ernestine Coffey and Dafothy M inton.
Hearthside Press, 381 Park Avenue

   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   

South, New York 10016. Pp. 160, i
trated.$4.95. 1965. Christmas, tot
authors, covers the entire period '
Advent to Twelfth Night. Starting
the making of an Advent wreath f0
family table and suggestions for n
ceremony, they describe and show
to make outdoor and indoor -.
tions. Included are door sways, C
mas cards, birds’ Christmas tree,
ornaments, wreaths, miniature C
mas trees, recipes for food and d
and ideas for New Year’s Eve
Twelfth Night. The book really do '
end, because it goes on into plannin
next year’s Christmas—how to s
collect, reuse, and enjoy.

MERRY CHRISTMAS TO YOU ( revise
tion), compiled by Wilhelmina Ha
E. P. Button, 201 Park Avenue S
New York 10003. Pp. 254, illustr
$4.50. 1965. Many grown-ups wil
member some of the Christmas st
that are well on their way to beco I
classics, stories by Eric P. Kelly, F
R. Stockton, Beatrix Potter, Ruth '
yer, Elizabeth Coatsworth, and S
Lagerlof. It is good to have them a
in one book. It is good, too, to see
many of the author’s other anthol
have been revised and republished.
an experienced librarian, she kn0\
good story when she hears it. Be
all, she passes it along for other
enjoy.

PUBLIC RELATIONS IN NATURAL
SOURCES MANAGEMENT, Douglas L.
bert. Burgess Publishing Company,
South Sixth Street, Minneapolis 55
Pp. 227, illustrated. $4.50. The aut
associate professor of wildlife ma
ment at Colorado State University.
book, based on his study for a doct
at the University of Michigan, c
its field thoroughly and with ple
informality. Although not a pr
Sional public relations person, Dr.
bert has studied the professional li

ture in the field. He has also do
good deal of fact finding about suc

ful PR practice in the field eovere
his book. He has prepared a u
handbook for executives and adm
trators as well as those whose sp
responsibilities may be in the ar
Dublic relations. Although the exa
deal with natural resources ma
ment, the information and advic
generally sound and useful. -—
New, Special Assistant to the Exec
Director, National Recreation and l
Association.

RECRE;

OKS AND PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

I

‘ memo, NATURE

one Can Camp in Comfort, James Ralph
Johnson. David McKay 119 W. 40th St., New
ork 10018. Pp. I54. $3.50.

- Watcher’s America, The, Olin Sewali Pet-
ingill, Jr., Editor. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
t., New York 10036. Pp. 441. $7.50.

munity Action for Outdaor Recreation and
anservation. National Board of the YWCA,
x LexinSBon Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 36.
aper,$1. .

saur Hunt, Gear e O. Whitaker and Joan
.eyers. Harcourt, race and Warld, 757 3rd
ve., New York 10017. Pp. 94. $3.50.

ting Out of Outdoor Trouble, W. K. Merrill.
tackpole Books Cameron and Kelker Sts.,
arrIsburg, Pa. 17105. Pp. 95. $2.95.

I's Way, The, Louis Darling. Wm. Morrow,

gSSOPark Ave. S., New York 10016. Pp. 96.

pier Family Comping, Gearge S. Wells. Stack-
~o Books, Cameron Cr Kelker Sts., Harrisburg,
0. Pp. 96. $2.95.

e In Your Pack, Bradford Angler. Stackpole
ooks, Cameron Cr Kelker Sts., Harrisburg, Pa.
7105. Pp. 192. $4.50.

to Build and Operate Private Family Camp-
rounds, Bill Riviere. Kalmbach Publ., 1027 N.
th St., Milwaukee, Wisc. 53233. Pp. 49. $2.00.

to ulld Mobile Home Parks, Fred Sporer.
raII-R-Club of America, P.O. Box 1376, Bev-
ly HIIIS, Colif. Pp. 301. Paper, $8.50.

I Answers to Questions about Earth Science,
Ichard M. Pearl. Grosset and Dunlap, 1107

Eoggway, New Yark 10010. Pp. 327. Paper,

RCH

Work and Play, Joyce Fischman. Union of
mer. Hebrew Congregations, 838 5th Ave.,
ew Yark 10021. Pp. 78. Paper, $1.25.

rch Comp Counselor's Manual (Grades 4-6).
uthe_ran Church Press, 2900 Queen La., Phila-
lphIa 19129. Pp. 56. Paper, $1.00.

rch Camp Counselor’s Monuoi (Grades 1-91.
Vld Belgum. Lutheran Church Press, 2900
ueen La., Philadelphia, 19129. Pp. 53.
per,$1.00.

rch Comp Counselar‘s Manual
i,Jer L. Schmalenberger. Lutheran Church

ress, 2 Queen La., Philadelphia; 19129.
p.64. Paper,$1.00.

rch Camp Program Guide (Grades 4-6),
Izabeth M. Purdham. Lutheran Church Press,

‘00 Queen La., Philadelphia 19129. Pp. 143.
Irai bound, $1.50.

rch Camp Program Guide (Grades 7-9), Rus-
II E. FInk. Lutheran Church Press, 2900

ueen La., Philadel id 19129. P . 122. S ' I
und, $1.50. ph p pm

rch Camo Program Guide (Grades IO-IZI,
the_ran Church Press, 2900 Queen La., PhIia-
phIa 19129. Pp. 89. Spiral bound, $1.50.

Bible Lessons Far Beginners. Elmira Hill,

itor. Moody Press, 820 N. LaSaIle St., Chi-
go. Pp. 140. $3.50.

a Portraits. Betty Honeywell. Moody Press
0 34.$Iiagglie 51., Chicago. Pp. 127. SpiraI
- n , . .

Selection and Develapment Comps—Can-
rences—Retreots. United Church Press, 1505

.ce St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19102. Pp. 174.
Irai bound, $12.50.

re Am I? Bible Places In Rhyme. Mabel H.
nce. Moodv Press, 820 N. LaSaIIe St., Chl-
go 60610. Pp. 31. $.35.

(Grades 10-

NARY ARTS

of Chinese Cookery The, Son 0 Richmond.
ortshelf 9.0. Box 634, New ochelle, N.Y.
.92. sl.so.

of the Table, Dorothy Tompkins: Hat and
d Sweets, Irene Hirst; Cakes and Postrles,
ne Hirst; and Preserves, Irene Hirst. Sport-
If, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. All
.64. $2.50 each.

ici-ng and Decorating, Beryl Guertner.
rtshelf. PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
. 125. $7.00.

clopedia of Wine, Frank Schoonmaker. Hast-

.- House. 151 E. 50th St., New York 10022
.410. $6.95.

y Slave Cookbook, The, Robert Geriing and
an Harper. Vantage Press. 120 W. 315t St.,
York 10001. Pp. 91. $2.50.

' nd Beef Cook Book, The, Lone Books, Menlo
rk, Calif. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.95.

rable Hibachi, Kathryn Popper. Simon and
hu§2e85630 5th Ave., New York 10020. Pp.

EMBER, 1965

 

Hors d‘aeuvres and Salads; Poultry and Game;
Continental Cookery; Fish Cookery, oli edited
by Irene Hurst. Spartshelt, P.O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Each pp. 64. $2.50 each,

Instant Italian Cuisine, Esther Riva Solomon. M.
Evans Co. 216 E. 49th St., New York 10017.
Pp. 246. $4.95-

Recipes from the Meltin, Pot, Pam and Charles
Nicolai. Lone Book. 0., Menlo Park. Coiif.
Pp. 168. $4.95.

Secrets of Homemade Candy Making. Dorothy
Weuve. Golden Bell Press, 2400 Curtis St.

Denver, Colo. 80205. Pp. 72 Spiral bound,
$2.95.

Shellfish Cookbook, The, MarIan TracBb Bobbs-
%%rilé,3395W. 57th St., New YOrk I 19. Pp.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ADULT LEADERSHIP, October 1965
The End at Leisure, Gearge S. Odiorne.

The Contributions of Group Dynamics ta Social
Work, Edwin Simon.

AMERICAN CITY, October 1965

Tennis on Top of the Tank (Ada, OkIaJ,
P. S. Karr.

A Dune-Protection Ordinance, A. J. Walnut and
Stephen Sussna.

AMERICAN COUNTY GOVERNMENT,
October 1965
San Diego Boy Pollution Controlled by United
Action.

————, November 1965
Stepped-Up War on Pollution, Bernard F. Hil-
lenbrand.
Gifts of Parks Proggrty Has Advantage for All,
Laurence J. Aur ch.

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES September 1965
Silversmithlng, Edith rockway.
Tell a Story in Creative Stitchery, Edna Madsen.
Masks in Art and History, Chester J. Alkema.
Creativity with o Felt Tip, Selma Gruenberg.
Strina a Design, Burt Wasserman.
It's Still Paper, Betty Brothers.

, October 1965

Caniure Up the Spirit of Halloween, Betty Port-
mann.

Masks in the Round, Selma Gruenberg.

Stretch Your Imagination, Alice A. Prahl.

Out of the Kitchen, Into the Classraam (alumi-
num foil craft) , Richard D. Martin.

Buasi Bugs!r Bugs! (paper mache
Kate Keffer Agee.

Collage Challenges Creative Talents, Burt Was-
serman.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, September-October 1965
Planning Waterfront Facilities, Milton K. Berlye.
Conserving a Camp‘s Natural Assets, Hans G.

Uhlig and Francis L. Paulsen.
Starting a Travel Camp? Glen A. Ridnour.

4-H NEWS, October 1965
Conservation: Club and Cammunity Link,
Wayne Dun.
Add Spice to Your Program Planning, V. Joseph
McAuliffe.
New Proiect
Leidenfrost.

GIRL SCOUT LEADER, November 1965
Five Forests and a Maple Tree, Minnio GilliIand.

Case of the Liquidoted Litterbug.

NATIONAL CIVIC REVIEW, October I965
Science In Law-Making, Jesse M. Unruh.
A Time to Experiment (preserving open space)
Ann Louise Strong.
Hiding Auto Graveyards, James R. Dunne.

PAR ENTS' MAGAZINE, November 1965
A Brighter Future for Disabled Children,
Howard A. Rusk, M.D.
How Serious Is Teenage Drinking? Marthe
Gross.

PUBLIC MANAGEMENT, October 196.5
City Makes Start In Meeting Needs of Teen-
agers 'Greenboro, N.C.I, Joanne Taylor and
Gustav M. UIrIrh.
Managers Told "Gaod Life" Lies In City.

SATURDAY REVIEW, Ooctober P3, 19"")
The Crisis in Water: Its Sources, Pallutlan and
Depletion.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, October 16'. 10F".
An Odd Sport . . . and on Unusuai Champion
(surf hoardino.‘ . Gilbert Roqin.

, November 1. 196r

insects) ,

in Classicai Music, Charles B.

The NicetIes of Ice.

An A-i- in Spinnaker Is Easy at Ardeli ’saiiino
schooii. Huqh WhoII.

A Pop Angler's Guide to Fishing with Coffee-
pots and Other Original Lures, Bi‘ Gilbert.

-——-——, November 8. 19(5
The Hunters of the Sky (faICOnIy‘.

THE YMCA MAGAZINE, Novembei ‘9t
The People's Theatre (Cambridge
Tove Gerson.

Speakers: Their Discovery and Treatment,
Robert W. Ostrn.

MO 5:

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Only The Best
E (I III P M E N T
Is Good Enough

 

MERICAN
“APPROVED—

PARK and PICNIC,

PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0.

Min Offices and Plant
NOW IN OUR TOWN OF

NAI-IMA, MICHIGAN

. . . In Michigan's Beautiful
and Historic Upper Peninsula

 

IS THERE
A DOCTOR
IN THIS
PICTURE?

Could be . . . for leathe'craft is the craft
that teaches manual dexterity, a true edu-
cational aid in the development of future
surgeons, scientists engineers . . . and
artists, too.

Put the fun ant. IEIIEIIIS oI ‘eatnercralt
nto your pm ran At no extra tharge a

% trained Tandy representav

TA ND Y LEA THER ca.

1001 Foch St.. Dcpt. RR Fart Worth, Texas 76107

 

503

_ ._7—7 7 ._ M? r-..

MARKET NEWS

0 THE DISC SET. Shufiieboard enthusiasts and establish-
ments with shuffleboard courts will appreciate a new disc
carrier for storing or one-hand transportation of disc sets
to and from the courts. The lively, smooth, nonflutter slide
and rebound characteristics of the discs can make it difficult
to carry the eight discs in a stack without dropping them
along the way, particularly when trying to carry the cues in
the other hand. This new carrier solves that problem, as well
as simplifying the matter of storing matched sets where
several courts are involved—at playgrounds, clubs, resorts,
et cetera—and when different grades of discs may be avail-
able for players of varying skills. The modern, lightweight
carrier holds eight regulation size discs without spilling,
even when resting on the court. It is made of sturdy welded
steel rods that are covered with thick blue vinyl plastic, so
it is completely weatherproof. For more information on the
new #90 disc carrier, .write the Customer Services Depart-

ment, Dimco-Gray Company, 207 East Sixth Street, Dayton,
Ohio 45402.

0 WAY OUT. A new line of exit lights, with universal cast
bracket hanger, permits suspended or end mounted installa-
tion as required. The units” thin design, measuring at the
top 27/16 inches for single face or an additional quarter inch
for double face, makes possible surface type installation to
replace recessed units.

The two styles available are a metal face stencil or lettered
acrylic in red or green. F ace-packs are interchangeable on
single- or double-faced housing, and can be ordered with
no arrows, arrows right, arrows left, or double arrows.
Optional lettering in red or green is available for acrylic
faces. Housings are finished in satin aluminum baked
enamel. Standard voltage on the new exit lights is 120 volts,
but 277 volt is also available. Units come complete with
120/5 volt transformer and either four or eight low voltage
lamps, which, under normal operating conditions, have a
lamp expectancy of ten years.

The new Eko line, along with many other lighting prod-
ucts, is fully described in the new full color, 48-page “Light-
ing Classics” catalogue, available on request from Benjamin

Products, Thomas Industries, Inc., 207 East Broadway,
Louisville, Kentucky 40202.

e PERMANENT IDENTITY MARKER. Tools and equipment
have a habit of getting lost or sent to wrong locations in
the recreation and municipal service. Keys and their loca-
tion have also presented a problem. Now, a pencil-type
engraver can permanently engrave identification on all
metals, plastic, wood, and glass in a matter of seconds. It can
be used for personalizing jewelry, such as cigarette lighters,
watch fobs, watches, penknives; identifying tools, camping

For further information, please write directly to sourc’e given and mention RECREATION Maga

504

 

  
  
 
    
   
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
   

equipment, children’s plastic cups, tooth brushes, bicyc
guns, fishing, boats and boating equipment.

The Model 290 Engraver is six inches long, weighs se
ounces, has a high-impact nylon housing, a solid car
point that stays sharp, and a high speed reciprocat
motor delivering seventy-two hundred impacts per min
It has an exclusive calibrated stroke adjustment with
dial set positions which regulates the length of stroke
depth of engraving. The unit is packed in a molded stor
case. For further information, write to Dremel Manufa
ing Company, Racine, Wisconsin.

l

1

0 MOST PEOPLE cannot th
an ordinary cork or infl
ring life preserver more I
twenty 0r thirty feet, an
takes practice to place it ~
any accuracy. A new “re
ball” called Sav-a-Life, a
the size and shape of an in
baseball, can easily be thr
with accuracy up to two
.V ,.  m  _  ._ j. . dred feet to cover forty ti
the effective rescue area. Within three seconds after it
the water the ball opens and out pOps a full-size self-infla
life preserver with buoyancy enough to support a 250-p
man for many hours. At the same time a small anch
dropped to keep the life preserver from drifting out of re
For more information, write to Inventor’s Products

pany, 5309 Edina Industrial Boulevard, Minneapolis,
nesota 55424.

'. I l’
1i:i
't

o WEATHERPROOFED SOUND .COLUMNS which may be
outdoors or indoors are now constructed so that they
vide excellent voice and music fidelity for public-ad
systems. Various models of the 661030 Sound Columns
tain one, four, five, or seven individual weatherproof s
ers in each metal column, covering a frequency range i
fifty to eighteen thousand cycles. The units are design
that they emit the sound over a wide area without cc
and sound reflections, providing a constant audio
Listeners get the effect of the presence of the person s
ing rather than a hollow artificial sound. The Geloso 5
Column speakers are designed so that fewer columns
be used to secure maximum audible coverage.
Transistorized or vacuum-tube amplifiers and
phones are also manufactured by Geloso to make up
plete public-address systems. Details and descriptive l
ture are available from American Geloso Electronics,

251 Park Avenue South, New York 10010.

RECRE

 
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
 
   

SOURCE GUIDE

ilDEX T0 ADVERTISRS
46

S
503
484
Inside Front Cover

506

rican lockers
erican Playground Device

son Mfg.
inktun

silied

EQUIPMENT

Abandon shlpl A playground climber of 3%-
inch pipe and strong chain called the Cargo Net
features new dimensions for an old standby in
physical-fitness programs. Especially built for

" Sr Inc  primary- through iunior-age children, it's the
me.'|'ime  perfect way to combine fun and healthful exer-
, cise. Young muscles and coordination develop

“ “0 Alhlem:   on this imaginative climber. For details and

ilk-Bill

. ico Forge
tional Studios
sen Corp.
meirading __
dy leather
rdzik

. ger Music

catalogue, write to Mexico Forge, lnc., Reeds-
viile, Pennsylvania.

498
inside Front Cover
498
509
466
503
466
498

Where you want it. A new heavy-duty Ball and
Equipment Caddy makes it easy for recreation
leaders, teachers, coaches, or students to main-
tain close inventory control of all balls, gloves,
bats, and game equipment. This portable carrier
is ideal for large groups, mass sports activity,
multiple field organization, play and sports
days, intramurals, and varsity squad equipment.
Write to The Program Aids Company, lnc., 550
Garden Avenue, Mount Vernon, New York, for

 
    

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION
(Act of October .23, 1963; Section 4369. Title .39, United States Code)

. DATE OF FILING 2. TITLE OF PUBLtCATION 3. FREQUENCY OF ISSUE
October t, i965 RECREATION IO issues per year

(monthly except July 8. August)

. LOCATION OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBILCATION
National Recreation and Park Association, 8 West 8th Street, New York, N. Y. lOOii

. LOCATION OF THE HEADQUARTERS OR GENERAL BUSINESS OFFICES OF THE PUBLiSHERS
8 West 8th Street, New York, N. Y. iOOtl

NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PUBLISHER, EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR
PUBLISHER EDITOR

National Recreation and Park Association, 8 West 8th St. Joseph Prendergasl,

New York, N. Y. 100” 8 West 8th St., New York, N. Y.
MANAGING EDITOR

Dorothy Donaldson, 8 West 8th St., New York, N. Y.

OWNER: National Recreation and Park Association, 8 West 8th St., New York, N. Y. tOOII

KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING l PERCENT
OR MORE OF TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONDS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES: NONE (A NON PROFIT
ORGANIZATION

Paragraphs 7 and 8 Inciude, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the
company as trustee or In any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such
trustee Is acting, also the statements in the two paragraphs show the aft'iant‘s full knowledge and belief as

, to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the
books of the company as trustees, hold stack and securities In a capacity other than that of a bone Bde owner.
Names and addresses of individuals who are stockholders of a corporation which Itself Is a stockholder or
holder of bands, mortgages or other securities of the publishing carparatian have been Included In para-
graphs 7 and 8 when the interests of such Individuals are equivalent to i percent or more of the total amount
of the stock or securities of the publishing corporation.

THIS iTEM MUST BE COMPLETED FOR ALL PUBLICATIONS EXCEPT THOSE WHICH DO NOT CARRY ADVER-
TISING OTHER THAN THE PUBLISHER'S OWN AND WHICH ARE NAMED .IN SECTIONS l32.23l, I32.232,
AND i32.233, POSTAL MANUAL (Sections 4355a. 5355b. and £356 of Title 39, Unsted States Code)

   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  

AVERAGE NO.
COPIES EACH SINGLE ISSUE
ISSUE DURING NEAREST TO
PRECEDING FILING DATE
l2 MONTHS
TEAL NO. COPIES PRINTED (Net l’rcss Run) I3,640 I3,9DOV -
AID CIRCULATION
l. SALES THROUGH AGENTS, NEWS DEALERS, OR OTHERWISE. 3,l08 L230
‘2. MAIL SUBSCRIPTIONS 3.057 10,265
OTAL PAID CIRCULATION il,l65 H.495
REE DISTRIBUTION (including samplrsl BY MAIL, CARRIER
DELIVERY, OR BY OTHER MEANS 2,086 7,040
' om DISTRIBUTION 13.600 r3390
FFICE USE, LEFT-OVER, UNACCOUNTED, SPOILED AFTER PRINTING 250 300
OTAL (Sum of E and F—should equal press run shown in A) 13,640 i3,900

| ' t de in me above are correct and complete.
certify that the stotemen s ma y FRANK J ROWE. hum“ Menu"

CEMBER, 1965

 

  -——Plcase Write Directly To Sources Given

—rmri mention RECREATION Magazine

a catalogue which includes the Ball and Equip-
ment Caddy and hundreds of other items.

Budgetwise. All over the country, community
centers, motels, country clubs, fraternal organ-
izations, and churches have been snapping up
good buys in reconditioned bowling equipment.
Excellent rebuilt pinsetters are available for as
much as thirty percent less than new equipment.
For further information regarding recOnditioned
automatic pinsetters, write to Recreational Bowl-
ing, 620 Route Three, Clifton, New Jersey
070”. (Attention, Mr. T. T. Gray.)

OffiCE AIDS

Stiff spine. Eleven-inch sliding paper clips
called Bac-Bones convert loose sheets of paper
into finished reports, records, presentations, and
catalogs. No hole punching, mechanical equip-
ment, or other accessories are required. Assem-
bled pages are inserted at the tap of a lac-Bane,
then drawn dawn the length of the plastic chan-
nel. The open edge of the Doc-Bone applies a
tight grip on up to twenty-five single sheets
of paper. The plastic strip can be removed as
easily as it is applied and can be reused if de-
sired. Applied to pamphlets or other limp ma-
terial, Bac-Bane's stiffening tunction simplifies
stacking, shelving, or filing of reference mate-
rial. They came in eleven-inch standard. thir-
teen-inch legal lengths, and in custom lengths
on order. Six colors are available for color
coding. Additional information is available
from the Devoke Company, SIO South Mathilda
Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94086.

Time control. The new Tlmewise-lSO Visual con-
trol board helps the user to arrange and re-
arrange schedules without making up new forms.
Suitable for scheduling program activilies; main-
tenance chores, personnel, inventory, et cetera.
The user simply types or writes (up to three
lines) on colored perforated paper tabs, which
are then inserted into magnetic tab holders and
placed on board. As changes occur, the tabs
can be easily moved (in any direction) from
column to column, giving a graphic picture of
what is happening in any operation. The Time-
wlse-lSO measures 25"—by-I9" with extruded
aluminum frame. It hangs on the wall like a
picture, weighs only five pounds, and is easily
portable. The board is ruled ten columns across
and fifteen columns down and comes with thirty-
six magnetic tab holders i2"—by-i"), nve hun-
dred green and five hundred orange paper tabs
in sheet form. Free descriptive sheet is avail-
able from Coddylalr Systems, lnc., I39 Linden
Avenue, Westbury, New Yark.

MAINTENANCE

Scrub team. An improved thirty-two-inch auto-
matic scrubber-vac featuring a new traction
drive system without belts, clutches, or gear

boxes, the Clarke-a-Matic TB-32A automati-
cally meters floor-cleaning solution, scrubs,
505

picks up, and squeegee dries a thirty-twa-and-
a-half-inch swath in one pass at the rate of
thirty thousand square feet per hour. The bot-
tery-pawered unit operates a full eight hours
without need for recharging. Full details are
available from Clarke Flaar Machine Division,
Studebaker Corporation, 17 East Clay Avenue,
Muskegon, Michigan 49443.

No cracks, pleasel A new powderlike campaund
called Rockite mixes with water to a pouring ar
pliable consistency for the quick and permanent
repair of cracks, holes, or breaks in concrete or
terrazzo. lt anchors bolts and similar items in
concrete or terrazzo with more than twice the

holding power than those items attain when
anchored in fully cured or convenient concrete
alone. Bolts, rods, pasts, columns, awnings,
canopies, partitions, signs, screws, pulleys, door
checks, racks, hooks, washbawls, toilets, laths,

cutting shears, punch presses, milling machines,
and such, may be secured permanently with
Rackite. For further information, write to Hart-
line Products Company, 2186 Noble Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112.

Pool repairs. A new series of products for per-
manent pool repairs include Raystan Pool Patch
for permanently repairing cracks; Underwater
Pool Patch for repairs in wet or submerged
areas; Flex-Joint far tilting expansion ioints; and
Pool Kate, a series of long-lasting paints with
either epoxy or vinyl base. For literature, write

to Raystan laboratories, lnc., Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania 15328.

Water controls. A new eleven-station auto-

matic controller, with simplified “fingertip com-
mand" panel for large-scale scheduled watering
of golf courses, parks, and other large turf
areas, is produced in two models, adaptable for

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface t
RATES: Minimum ad accept

COPY:

e

ydpe $.25 each

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date at
$3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.

Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you Wish

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.
S end copy with remittance to .'

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York. New York 10011.

 

HELP WANTED

Director of Teenage and
Women’s Activities.
Starting salary: 35300-35,-
200. Graduate of an accred-
ited college with major in
recreation or related field.
Experience with teenagers
preferred. Two weeks paid
vacation per year. Major
medical and hospitalization
plan, pending approval.
Opportunity to attend meet-
ings, conferences, and con-
ventions. Organize, promote
and supervise all teenage
and women’s activities to
include dances, Special
events, athletics for girls,
special classes or instruc-
tional programs. Coordina-
tion of programs with re-
lated agencies. Assist with
all public relation and pro-
gram planning. Assist with
promotion of any new or
needed facilities and pro-
grams. Perform other du-
ties that may be assigned
by superintendent of parks
and recreation. Apply: Bill
R. Wilson, Superintendent,
Park and Recreation De-
partment, 22nd & Sycamore
Sts., Donner Center, Colum-
bus, Indiana.

Landscape Architects for
Department of Parks. Mar-
yland, Silver Spring and
Riverdale. Qualifications:
Degree in LA. Salary:
06,072 and up depending
upon qualifications. Apply
to John P. Hewitt, Director
of Parks, The Maryland-
National Capital Park and
Planning Commission, 8787
Georgia Avenue, Silver
Spring, Maryland.

 

 

Recreation Director. Sal-
ary range: 353,613-310,766.
Administer recreation pro-
gram for city of 200,000
p0pulation. Bachelor’s de-
gree in recreation, prefer-
ably with master’s degree
in recreation or bachelor’s
degree in a related field
with master’s degree in rec-
reation required. Minimum
of three years supervisory
and two years administra-
tive experience in public
recreation. Excellent fringe
benefit program. Further
information and applica-
tion available from Person-
nel Director, Flint Civil
Service Commission, Mu-
nicipal Center, Flint, Mich-
igan 48502.

Recreation Therapist.
$417-$507. New and differ-
ent federal grant program.
Located in sportsman’s uto-
pia. Degree and one year’s
experience in recreation or
physical education. Contact
Verle Bjur, State Hospital
North, Orofino, Idaho.

Recreation Director. Pri-
vate children’s home in
lower Westchester County,
New York, thirty minutes
from Times Square, desires
married couple to live on
grounds. Recreation direc-
tor must be college gradu-
ate and spouse to be house-
parent. Facilities include
gymnasium, indoor pool,
and large outdoor play
area. Children, ages seven
through high school, all
attend public schools. Room

and board provided. Three
weeks vacation after one
year of service. Combined
salary for couple, depend-
ent upon qualifications,
$8,000-$8,500. For informa-
tion, write to Box NB, Rec-
reation Magazine.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Oppor-
tunities to plan and con-
duct individual patient
recreation as well as spe-
cial group activities; mod-
ern equipment and facili-
ties. Positions open to col-
lege graduates with major
in recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: 3510 to $619 a
month. Promotional op-
portunities, attractive em-
ployee benefits. Write:
Medical Personnel Serv-
ices, California State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Mall, Sacramento, Califor-
nia 95814.

Community Center Unit
Supervisor. Salary $7,000-
311,450. Supervise thera-
peutic recreation pragram
for a unit of seventy-five
emotionally disturbed boys,
ages 8-12. Master’s degree
in recreation plus appro-
priate experience. Position
available January 15. Also,
Community Center Rec-
reation Leader II. Salary
$6,000-$9,600. College de-
gree in recreation. For both
jobs, send resume to Per-
sonnel Assistant, The Chil-
dren’s Village, Dobbs Fer-
ry, New York.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised Iii-e.

—_.____________________________________
506

  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
    
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  

wall or pedestal mountings, and provides a
60-minute timer control for each of the
separate stations. A program for fourteen
of operation may be planned and pro
through the controller in one operation.
tianal information is available from Buck

dustries, lnc., Box 232, Fresno, Calif
93708.

LOW-0081' AIDS

Order these resources and referen
rectly from source given (enclose remix

Child-tested. Successful children's part'
don't "happen." They are planned, .
and piloted. Next time you need so
ideas, get Betty Cracker's Parties for
by lois M. Freeman. Here is a real C
or other gift not only for recreation lea
far all the mothers you know who have «
from five to eleven years old. lt is a
bound, 163-page book (8%”-by-11"),
gay, amusing, and colorful illustratia
also of games, food and fun for parties,
ing decorations, favors, invitations, th
common-sense advice. It is indexed a
cludes child-tested recipes for party r '
the answers are right here. The illustrat'
Judy and Barry Martin are so fun-full an
happy that youngsters will likely take th
over for their own pictureboak eniayment.
able for $1.95 from Golden Press, 85
Avenue, New York 10022.

Christmas motifs and symbols remain t
season after season, but variation and

are unlimited. The Better Homes and C
1965 Christmas Ideas annual offers
variety of ornaments, wreaths, trees, gift
mobiles, toys, bazaar gifts, recipes, and
to inspire your creativity. These inclu
tiques and keepsakes, tree trinkets and ~:
designer miscellany from this ’n that, g
pings and trappings, bazaar gifts that
and party trims and treats. The 166-p
nual (9%”-by-12’/2"), with 207 illu
in color and others in black-and-white,
able for $1.35 at newsstands, books
from Meredith Press, 1716 locust Slr
Moines, Iowa 50303.

Urban facelifting. Despite serious prob -
a number of legitimate criticisms, urban r
has many impressive achievements to it
in scores of American cities, large and
The story is summarized in Can We Sa
Cities? 0 new Public Affairs Pamphlet.
thar, Maxwell 5. Stewart, analyzes the c
leveled against urban-renewal pragr
cards the history of urban renewal and
camplishments to date, and indicates lh
and prospects for the future. He alters
but enlightening picture of the origins
problem—the exodus from farm to city,
increasing burdens placed an urban or
the later move of upper-class and mid '-
families as well as businesses to outlying
with the consequent loss of resources in
wealth "at the very time when the city's
was growing." Available for $.25 from
Affairs Committee, 381 Park Avenue Saul
York 10016.

Rec

Save substantially

 

with

Nationat’s New

projector-n ’-slid6 packages!

You simply can't beat “sing-along" sessions when it comes to perking up group spirits!
Now. National offers FOR THE FIRST TIME AT THESE LOW PRICES three outstanding
“Projector-'n-slides" packages! Quantities are limited. however, so please place your
order promptly!

 

PACKAGE #2:

Powerful Mansfield Projector
plus 50 All-time song slides.

$44.95
50 2"x2'“slides m .50 25.00

Projector

 

$69.95 Value ‘

You Pay $54.95

SAVE $15.00

 

 

S - Alter the Ball
ll - Alouette
l6 - America the Beautiful
17 - Annie Laurie
l8 - Annie Rooney
24 - Auld Lang Syne
2 - Band Played On
3 - Banka of Wabaah
5 - Battle liymn of Republic
6 - Beauiliul Dreamer
l2 - Believe Me - Endearing Charma
l2 - Bicycle for Two
I4 - Bill Bailey
22 - Bowery
I - Caiaaona Go Rolling Along
3 - Camptouvn Racea
9 - Clementine
4 - Dear Old Girl
9 - Dixie
l3 - Down in the Valley
20 - Dreaming
22 - Du Du Liegat M l lterizen
I - Eaat Side, Weat Side
9 - For He'a A Jolly Good Fellow
ll - Forty Five Minutea from Broadway

12220000'01"!

PACKAGE #1:

Powerful Mansfield Projector plus 25 All-time song slides.

 

$44.95
12.50

Projector
25 2"x2" slides (a .50

 

$57.45 Value

You Pay $45.45
SAVE $12.00

PACKAGE #3:

Powerful Mansfield PrOJector

This is the Mansfield SKYLARK 500 Automatlc plus 100 AlHlme song slides_

Projector. This compact unit is the culmination of
modern styling and engineering. The excellent
optical system incorporated in the "Skylark" gives
your pictures the snap and clarity necessary

for real projection enjoyment. 500 watt Tru-Focus
lamp. F/3.5 coated lens. Manual changer. Tilt
controls. Turbo type fan impeller to insure maximum
coolness at all times!

Projector $44.95
100 2”x2"slides m .50 50.00

 

$94.95 Valu
You Pay $77.45
SAVE $17.50

Select The Slides You
Prefer From This
Star-Studded List!
“Keep 'em singing
and you'll keep 'em
happy!" Send for our
complete listing of
Song Slides.

THE 100 MOST POPULAR-“SONGS AMERICA SINGS"

12 - Frankie a. Johnny 1 2B - I've Been Working on Railroad R t - Rambling Wreck
‘3 - Frivolou. 55.1 i 33 - lt'a A Grand Old Flag R 3 - Reuben a. Rachel
15 - Funiculi Funicula J 2 - Jeannie with Light Brown Hair R 11 - now no. no.
2 - Give my Regarda to B'way J 3 - Jingle Bella 3 l - Sailing Sailing
10 - Good Night, My Lady Love J 9 - Juat a Song at Nilighl 5 l2 - She'll be Comtng Round Mountain
Il - Good Nighi Ladlea K i - Killarney 5 13 . Shonmn are“,
15 - Gypay Sweetheart L 3 - Llaten to the Macking Bird 5 13 - 50 Long M"),
2 - Hail, Hail. Gang'a All Here L 10 - Little Brow! Jun 5 20 - Strtke up the Band
7 - Hal Anybody Seen Kelley L 14 - Little Liza Jane S 20 - Sweet Adaiine
ll ' Hello   M 2 ' Man on  TI'IPCIE s  - 5"ch Genevieve
l3 - lle'a Got Whole World in Handa M i - Marine llymn S 3‘! - Sweet Roaie O'Grady
ii - liinky Dinky Parlee Voo M a - Mary'a a Grand Old Name 'r 2 - T. R. R. [zoom de A).
I9 - llame on the Range M 9 - Maryland my Maryland T a - Tavern in a TO'n
20 - Home 5""?! "0"“! M ii - Meet me in St. Louia T 7 - Tenting To-night
21 - 110! Time in ON TO“ TO'MIM M 20 - My Bomie Llea over Ocean T 24 - Tramp Tramp Tramp
3 - ldl ' 5'9“ 3' Apple Cider M 26 - My Wild lriah Roae V l - Viva L'Amour
a - 1'” Take You Home Again Kllhlccn 0 5 - Oh! Shenandoah W 2 - Walt Ttll Sun Shinea Nellie
IO - I Love You Trill! O T - Oh Dem Golden Slippera W 0 - When Good Feliowa Get TOgether
ll - I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy 0 8 - 0h Suaanna W IO - “hen the Sainta Come Mar. in
IS - In my Merry Old-mobile 0 it - Old Foika at llame W ll - When you were Sweet IS
13 ' In the EVenlnl by MOOHHKN 0 t5 - Oid Gray Mare W 12 - “hen You l- l “EFF Young Maggie
la - In the Gloamlnl O I? - Old MacDonald Had a Farm w 16 - Iulihile Strolling thru Park
'9 ' l" the 0006 Old Summer‘lme 0 ll - Old Oaken Bucket Y t - Yankee Doodle
20 - in the Shade of Apple Tree 0 2i - On T0p of Old Smokey y 3 . you 1,“ me Yo“, Dre-m
26 - lt'a Alwaya Fair Weather P i - Polly \holly Doodle Y 5 - “.110... ROI, of TH"

Send for Catalogue S -- lists over #00 GREAT SONGS.

Nl'llONlli SONG Sillili Slilill-Sli lllG. 42West4BSt—NewYork36

esamesles a ranpa owea ac Int ‘

 s    odeon days! Still great . . . still funny . . . still available.

up your living with these early day langttu

GENTLEMEN
WILL PLHJ;
REMOVE THEIR
HATS Others

6-3?

(NAME HERE!

You: lei-sue teem mu M.
in the washrm
‘1': mama's .11 Its:- 511mm:

‘ ‘. TMR. ZILCH'
Emits ‘IS WANTED

' AT rm: Box  -' ‘  m “1239'”

Jim; 'mc'n‘ilify , B  L " ‘3' ‘  l

m the Part uf . ‘ ' H “Myst”, V f I.

assistants . . .. 5‘7?!“ l .

  3’ - m - ' ya!" , - ill”! ’1 lg. :
I

smut minim é a,..

. ‘ , IN C” W ,,
drm'ltolhr s ,. . ' - w ‘ 3" sir-Ami” , l
. .‘ m mg agar: . ' v. ,
1 ’ 1 ‘. ' r. . br- ‘ - t

5

Need a chuckle or belly luff to get the show started? What great fun . . . use them at community sings or with »
own travel slides. Everyone is iust wild about ..... ..

These old-time authentic announcement slides have been
"Belly Laff Gags"

making 'em loft for over 50 years!

w." (Name Here)
pica: can ar the box atticc’
Her baby carriage rs

LEAKING.
58100

AND
THERE Ll

BROWNS

LAUNDR:

2 x 2 cardboard mounted slides — black 8- white 50¢ each Gay 9O — colored $1.00 each.
Add 25¢ per slide for glass binding. Also available in 3% x 4". SEND FOR LIST OF PAIODIES ‘- TONGUE-TWIST!!!»-

 mmm sum} sun: srnrrcr mc. 42 r. 4m St. rm rm. rt. muss

 

  
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
     
 
   
  

A special task force on education
1d recreation has made a study for
~ state of New Jersey of education
-1(l recreation services for children in
; - public mental hospitals in New Jer-
y. The recreation section of the re-
l rt includes the following:
' Every child in a public institution
iould have daily opportunity for rec-
alion activities which provide fun,
north, and personal development.
livery public mental institution should
F iploy at least one qualified person
10 meets the standards established by
e Council for the Advancement of
ospital Recreation for a hospital di-
. tor.
'Appropriate recruitment, selection,
service training, and supervision
ould be provided for all paid recrea-
on personnel and volunteers serving
tients in this area.
Insofar as possible, recreation pro-
rams should make use of all commu-
'y resources for supplies, material,
rsonnel, and facilities available.
It is urgently recommended that the
ivision of Higher Education and other
)propriate units of the Department of
ducation initiate a recreation curricu-
m leading to an undergraduate de-
ee in at least one state college or state
iversity in New Jersey.

  
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
  

The fourth edition of Recreation in
reatment Centers, prepared by the
spital Recreation Section of the
merican Recreation Society, includes
urteen articles by outstanding leaders
om the fields of medicine, aging, psy-
iatry, education, and recreation for
e ill and handicapped. Contributors
clude Harold D. Meyer, LL.D., Uni-
rsity of North Carolina; Ollie A.
andall, National Council on Aging;
ul Ilaun, M.D.; and Josephine L.
thbone, Ph.l). These and other lead-
g authorities have contributed ar-
les to this volume which makes it a
ust. Available from the ARS, 14-04
cw York Avenue, Washington 5, D.C.
r $2.50.

A new guide on Physical Fitness for
e Mentally Retarded, by Frank J.

ayden, Ph.l)., assistant professor of
ysical education at the University of

. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
nal Recreation and Park Associa-
n n’s Consulting Service on Recreation

r the I ll and Handicapped.

CEM BER, 1965

3 FOR THE ILL €93 HANDICAPPED

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

Western Ontario, includes sections on
fitness, tests of muscular fitness, organ-
izing a testing program, activities for
muscular fitness, activities for organic
fitness, swimming for the retarded, and
a bibliography. The forty-two page
pamphlet includes descriptive dia-
grams. For a copy, write to the Metro-
politan Toronto Association for Re-

tarded Children, 186 Beverly Street,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

+ Southern Illinois University, with
the aid of a grant from the Office of
Vocational Rehabilitation, has devel-
oped an Information Center on Recrea-
tion for the Handicapped. The univer-
sity is collecting information about rec-
reation programs for the liandica ped
and making this information availiible

through its I.C.R.II. Newsletter. For

further information, write to Informa-
tion Center, Recreation for the Handi-
capped, Little Crassy Facilities, South-
ern Illinois University, Carbondale,
Illinois 62903. Regional information

The

 

‘1 ...is

mDSSEm 0000

Nissen-Sico Tuck-Away tables are unmatched for perfect per-
formance and effortless portability. Ideal for schools, colleges.
Y.M.CJLs and clubs. The non-reflecting surface of the 3/.' high
density particle wood top offers a more uniform bounce and
stimulates better play. Nissen-Sico's exclusive "floating fold”
carries the entire table weight during folding and unfolding . . .
you merely guide lt into place. The net conveniently folds up
with the table. When in use. rubber cushions on the two edlust-
able center legs keep the table firmly in place.

NISSEN CORP. 930 - 27th Ave. S.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52406
World's Largest Manufacturer of Gymnasium Apparatus

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

centers such as this are most helpful to
the field of recreation for the ill and
handicapped.

+ Meeting a long-felt need, a National
Directory on Housing for Older People
has been published by the National
Council On the Aging. The highly
usable, up-to-date book was produced
under a grant from the Schimper Foun-
rlation. Easily the most authoritative
work of its kind, the new directory
lists more than eight hundred housing
facilities under nonprofit and private
sponsorship which already exist or are
under construction to serve the special
needs of elderly people.

A special feature of the 260-page vol-
ume is the “Guide for Selection” that
will he a valuable tool in assisting
people to asse5s their present living
quarters and decide whether they really
want to move, and, if they do, what to
look for in a new home. The directory
also has a tear-out check list which pros-
pective shoppers may take with them
and which details the key factors they
should look for in a new home. The
“Guide for Selection” was written by
Beverly Diamond, NCOA’s consultant
on community organizations, housing,
and individual services.

The directory is available for $5.00
from the i'COA, 49 West 45th Street,
New York 10036.

 

DIFFERENCE

in TABLE
TENNIS
TABLES

 

Now FREE Catalog

Ask for our new 4-901. cats
log descrlbing the New Tech
Any 2100

WRITE
TODAY!

 

