Recreation for Adults

 

Lourtesy Playground Commission, San Francisco

Music is one of the great channels through which
the adult Finds his recreation. There are games, indoor
and outdoor, swimming, hiking, and all the more
active Forms of recreation. There is drama, handcrait,
reading or any of the great variety of hobbies the
pursuit of which makes a man more interesting to
himself. ThereZis social recreation, the experience of

sharing with others, and there is the joy of discovering
beauty and making it one's own. And, if a man
would measure values as intangible as spiritual satis-
iactions, uthose recreation activities are most im-
portant which most completely command the indi-
vidual so that he loses himself in them and gives all
that heihas and is to them."

357

Nineteen Recreation Principles

Every child needs to be exposed to the growth-giving activities that have

brought satisfaction through the ages,—to tramping, swimming, dancing, skating, ball games; to sing-
ing, playing musical instruments; to dramatic activities; to making things with the hands; to caring
for pets, to helping plants grow, to getting to know nature, to trying simple scientific experiments; to
trying to make things beautiful; to learning the joy the team-play, of comradeship in doing things

with others. “v..-
\,A o a I u I I I I I a
Every clnld needs to discover wluch are the specral activities wlnch give lum

personal satisfaction and joy. In these activities he should be helped to develop the skills essential
to supreme enjoyment throughout life.

Every child should choose certain activities, certain hobbies that he can keep
up as long as he lives so that there may be no “dull” stretches.

Every man should have. certain forms of recreation which require little space
and which can be fitted into small fragments of time.

Every man needs to know well a certain limited number of games which he
himself likes for use indoors and outdoors so that there will never be an occasion when he cannot

think of anything to do. .

Every man should be helped to form the habit of finding pleasure in reading.

Most men should know at least a few songs with good music so that they
may sing when they feel like it.

Every man should be helped to discover some form of beauty which he can
really make his own—whether it be beauty of line, form. color, or sound.

Man thrives best in the sunlight. Every man should be helped to form habits
of being active, of breathing deeply in the sunlit outdoor air.

Since living and not business is the end of life our cities should be planned
from the point of view of living as well as of business and industry. Sunlight, air, open spaces, parks,

playgrounds, in abundant measure are essentials to any living that is to give permanent joy and satis-
faction.

It is of the greatest importance that every person be exposed to rhythm
because without rhythm man is incomplete and tires himself and bores others.

About one year in every ten of a man’s life is spent in eating. It is of funda-
mental importance that this one-tenth of a man’s life shall be so lit up by play of mind upon mind

that eating shall not be a hurried chore but an opportunity for comradeship and for growth for the
whole man.

358

NINETEEN RECREATION PRINCIPLES 359

Rest, repose, reiiection, contemplation are in themselves a form of recreation
and ought never to be crowded out by more active play.

Those recreation activities are mOSt important which most completely com-
mand the individual so that he loses himself in them and gives all that he has and is to them.

Ultimate satisfaction in recreation comes only through one’s own achievement,
of some kind.

The form of one’s recreation as an adult, often, though not always, should be
such as to use in part powers unused in the rest of one’s life.

A man is successful in his recreation life in so far as the forms of activity
he chooses create a play spirit, a humor, which to some extent pervades all his working hours, help—
ing him to find enjoyment constantly in the little events of life.

A happy play of childhood is essential to normal growth. Normal men and
women are most likely to grow from the children who have played well and happily. Normal men more
easily continue normal as they keep up childhood habit of play.

That children and men and women may be more likely to live this kind of
life, experience shows there is usually need for community action:

Every community needs a person, and.an unpaid committee or board charged with think-
ing, planning, and working to provide opportunity for the best possible use of the leisure
hours of men, women, and children.

Community recreation programs should continue throughout the year.

Support of community recreation programs should be through tax funds under some de-
partment of the local government.

Every community needs playgrounds, parks, and recreation centers just as every city and
town needs streets and sewers.

Every community should provide Opportunity for its children when they leave school to
continue the musical and dramatic and other specialized recreation activities which they
have enjoyed during school days.

I

Community recreation programs should allow for a broad range of tastes and interests
and varying degrees of mental and physical energy.

Every community needs persons trained to lead in recreation just as 'much as it needs
persons trained in education.

Satisfying recreation, whether for the individual or for the community, involves real
planning.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Community Centers —A Vital Force

 

The community center at Waverly, Pa., meets
educational as well as recreational needs

EOPLE need to salvage the creative Spirit.
So much is done for us by electric switches
that hands may be weak appendages in a few
hundred years. And what is created is so much in
the spirit of fierce competition that there is no
doing for the joy of producing. There is also the
intensive advertising which persuades a woman to
buy a cheap, unlover something for the home and
then pace the deck thinking up something to do
while she might have happily created something
beautiful. This is a poor substitute for a happy
emotional life.

That is some of the “why” of a public school
community center. The center offers many advan-
tages. Gf there is any way in which character can
be built it is in face-to-face meeting of problems in
our individual and group life. life must learn
happy, helpful adjustment to group life, family,
organization and community. We certainly need
to stiffen moral spines)

Organization

The community centers are operated by an
executive group—a committee or council. This

360

An emphasis on human
values vitalizes these
extracts from the report

of Chicago's centers.

group tries to encourage interest in activities peo-
ple may want and to plan the financing of them.
The program is usually in a process of develop-
ment for some time. In this rapidly changing
world it is hard to set up activities which will be
permanent except in general character. But many
pe0ple do find interests. The fact that there is so
much freedom makes the center most valuable.
Whether the community expresses itself often de-
pends on the executive body. A dictatorial group
will kill the center. They must have an under—
standing of the neighborhood conditions and in-
terest and initiative enough to suggest the right

things.
Aim and Purpose

A community center is not a night school.
While it is educational it is not at all the same
thing. We do not want the work conducted as a
day school'with the same atmosphere. It could
not be done that way. (People must find their own
interests and usually can’t find them quickly. The
work is informal) It includes non-academic things
and interest in streets, transportation and such.

The community center is also a place where
petty local quarrelsomeness can be minimized.
Four and five years ago the situation in several

COMMUNITY CENTERS—A VITAL FORCE 361

centers was very difficult because of fussy folks
with narrow personal interests. Now things are
different because of the community center work.
But it took time and patience from somebody.
No number of kinds "of organizations can be
substituted for the family relationship or destroy
the need for interest in common. The community
center is the place where the whole family can
have each an individual interest which is a part”

of a big interest in common if they understand
the work)

Program

In some places or in some group one must be
very careful not to label anything education.
Some folks are so sure of themselves, and others
are like the girl recently married who was ad-
vised to attend the cooking class. “Oh gee, it’s
too late now-—I’m married.”

@asses and clubs are formed in subjects of in—
terest; lectures, courses of study and training are
given, and there are dramatics, concerts and other
entertainment. Meetings of local organizations
are held in the building and help is given in neigh-
borhood needs. The only test of the success of
a community center is whether it is an expres-
sion of the people.

Among the n ew
work the most inter—
esting has been the
original work in
sculpture and pottery.
Fortunately we were
able to place in four
centers an artist who
knows how to draw
out and develop na—
tive genius ——not
teach. The groups
are—one Mexican (men), one highly intelligent
and one primitive colored, and children from a
Norwegian orphanage. The results in the Mexi—
can group were astonishing. Never were they
told what to make. There were figures with line
firm lines and decorative objects much like Aztec
art.

In the highly intelligent Negro group work was
produced which is much like the native African
art. In the primitive group the objects are crude,
but showed real development after the first month.
There is an artist in the Norwegian group, a
young man whose delicate work shows the back-
ground of generations of civilization.

I am happy to report development of drama and

There are twenty-six community centers in
Chicago conducted by the Board of Education
through the Community Center Department of
which Miss Marie G. Merrill is Supervisor. The

cost to the Board for the centers conducted from
May, 1930, to April, 1931, was $36,358. The read- A s econ d
cost to the people attending the centers in admis-
sion, class and membership fees and in rentals the

From club groups, was $25,054.47.

of a higher standard. People are usually willing
to use a poor grade of play if they know no other.

_They want to get expensive realistic scenery be-

cause they see movies instead of simple suitable
stage settings beautifully lighted. In one center
the young people wanted to do something besides
“gym” but the council couldn’t pay a leader. A
drama leader of a good type was sent out paid by
the Board of Education. In two weeks that group
of young women and men were organized into a
well—running-dramatic club. They gave a credit-
able five minutes from a good farce at the final
program.

One of the new groups showing talent is a
colored club at the Willard named the Richard V
B. Harrison Dramatic Club. This name brought
from Harrison a photograph. In the corner was
written “To Gawd’s Children from. de Lord—
Green Pastures.”

Some charming things have been done by chil—
dren’s drama classes. But listen to this from a
talented child who had a leading part: “My par-
ents aren’t coming. They don’t care. They said
they’d rather go to a talkie.”

Our first community center branch of the pub-
lic library is growing. There is an increase in

distribution and read- -

ing with a purpose. 'i
The Children’s Li-i
brary Club organized
by the librarian'meets
in her home regularly
to discuss what they

branch was Opened in
Spalding Com-
munity Center for the
physically h a n d i ".-
capped.

The program in the Spalding center gives the
adult cripples an opportunity to get the advan-
tages of gym, swimming and physiotherapy they
would not otherwise have without too great ex-
pense. Pottery and photography are in the pro-
gram, too. As employment and training for vocal-.-
‘ions are a big problem in this group, much atten-
tion is given to it. I

One of the most enthusiastic groups was Lovett
Class in Parliamentary Law and Public Speaking.
They had a superior teacher. Some of the women
came a long way to this class.

“Dad’s night” by the Sea Scouts was one of
the most appealing programs at the Locke Center.
The boys had the help of the American Legion

362 COMMUNITY CENTERS—A VITAL FORCE

 

Drum and Bugle Corps in
splendid uniforms. This post,
like several, uses the center as
a'meeting place.

The McCosh class in public
speaking conducted a discussion on the value of
adult education. This center has one of the clay
modeling classes.

The Prussing is a meeting place for a group of
teachers who are taking special training from
their art supervisor. ‘The drama work deserves
special mention, as do the orchestra and children’s
art craft classes.

The Armstrong has work for children after
school. Other centers would like to do this if the
Armstrong precedent. may be followed. This
year, in addition to drama and dancing, there was
a kite-making class. The kites gave opportunity
for originality in design and color. They were
beautiful and had to fly. That contest ended the
season.

The young folks at Hegewisch—a section far
from all else—are still showing the business men
and other adults uninterested that they can carry
on alone. Their self-trained basketball team won
the heavyweight championship trophy in the Com-
munity Center Basketball League. For lack of
funds they bring in only a paid referee for their
games. They needed a score board in the gym-
nasium on game nights. What to do? The young
president of the community center committee
found a much broken table. The team fixed up
the top, painted and added fixtures, and there
was an elegant score board! More use has been
made of the building this year by older adult

Manchester, Conn., has a commu-
nity building which is a combined
social center and school. Equipped
with Facilities of all kinds, it serves
varied interests.

groups for meetings, rehear-
sals and programs. Their
drama leader deserves great
praise for endurance and in-
terest.

Music groups are increasing. It is with joy we
announce more orchestras and bands and singers.
Of course, our Colman Chorus (colored) is better
than ever. Nothing pleased me more than the
groups of boy singers at several centers.

Other interesting work with children has been
growing this year. The Mary Lyon Departmental
Club is developing civic interest through its activi-
ties. The Ryder children whose mothers are in
the art craft and other classes are under the lead-
ership of a kindergartner. They made fifty
Easter cards for residents of Oak Forest and a
scrap book for a children’s ward in the County
Hospital. The Burley Children’s Theater con-
tinues the fine work it has done in the past. The
new addition to the stage will be a great help.
This center had a class in reviews of current lit-
erature and has found real leadership in drama
within its own group this winter.

The Ridge Center—(Morgan Park)—found
its lecture course more popular than ever. This
included Cornelia Otis Skinner, Angelo Patri
and Admiral Richard Byrd. Their Community
Center Council represents all of the recognized
organizations and the churches. It is an impor-
tant factor in the community life of the Ridge.

Roosevelt Center had two series of lectures
this year. Dr. Edward Schoolman, the well
known lecturer, gave a course in psychology for
the layman. Mr. William H. Holly gave a series

COMMUNITY CENTERS—A VITAL FORCE 363

of talks on current events which were followed
by discussion. The response in attendance and
interest warrants further development by the
Forum Committee next year.

Edison Park has developed more class work and
revived community interest this year. Their non-
partisan meeting heard all candidates for alder-
man.

The work done by the sewing, tailoring and
millinery classes was astonishing. The Sawyer
had a most attractive fashion show with a whole
procession of women wearing dresses and suits
they had made in class. Some of them had with
them their little children wearing adorable little
dresses and coats mother had made.

Colman, Garfield and Hayes
(all colored) included much
work in-various kinds of fancy
and practical stitchery and
rugs. The Garfield (the col-
ored district having poorest
living conditions) had a splen—
did display of rugs.

At Willard nearly seventy
women graduated from the
regular courses in sewing,
tailoring or millinery. The
group—all dressed in clothes
and hats they had made were
an encouraging picture. It
was a pleasure to give them
their certificates and watch the
interest and response of the
audience. Mention must be
made of the groups of young colored women——
several Normal College graduates. Their leader
uses the activities as a means of deve10ping the
interests, making some of them less selfish and
narrow.

The McCosh Center had the only tournament
in indoor tennis. Attractive little watch fob
medals were given. In the McCosh and Hayes,
many middle-aged and elderly colored folks
learned to read and write. The writing exhibited
at the centers and the Federation exhibit was
proof of their courage and achievement. t

The Von Humboldt (operated by the Deborah
Boys Club) developed a boys’ chorus and orches-
tra in no time. It was a joy to hear their music
which was of a high standard.

The Falconer has the only class in aviation.
They bought a motor from a large plane and the
men in that‘class do real work there.

The workers at Garfield have a hard job and

deserve much encouragement for what they have
done. The lives of the children are unorganized
and tall colored lads—age unknown———wander
about without work. Crowding and lack of work
are everywhere. This is also true of the workers
at Garfield where lack of interests causes a high
rate of delinquency. Sometimes the woodwork
room is running to capacity and some nights in-
terest lags, but always some are helped. One of
the people showing talent in clay modeling is a
deaf mute colored boy. He was so happy.

Norwood Park still reaps the benefit of its
$8,000 worth of fine pictures and fills many needs
in what is really village life.

Peterson has greatly broadened the point of

 

Bowling is popular In the Dalton, Mass.,
community house, as it is everywhere!

view of the people. They have the satisfaction
of seeing children grow up in their center and
take their places in community life.

It gave me a real thrill to give certificates to the
Polish group who learned English this year at
Russell Square Center. Four married couples
attended regularly together. Young women who
came to this country recently made rapid prog-
ress. Men whose native intelligence and person-
ality had made them popular received much ap-
plause as they came to the platform. The forty-
f our who received certificates were only those who
attended regularly. There were many more who
went as they could. The whole final program
given by women and men of the neighborhood
meant something to the audience. The cooking
teacher sent by the gas company has had fine
response here.

At the Thorp, by the steel mills, the Mexican
group stands out among the several nationalities,

364 COMMUNITY CENTERS-A VITAL FORCE

 
 
 
 
 
 
   

The desire on the part of adults not
only to make things, but to create
something of beauty and permanence,
ls resulting in the enrlchmentof the
handcraft program In the community
centers of many cities

nearly all of the classes in English being made
up of Mexican men. The unusual sculpture is
original work by them. The artist does not teach
more than the technique of handling the clay.
These men sing together happily at the close of
the evening. They sing mostly lovely Spanish
songs but have learned two in English.

The Community Center Players (from several
centers) gave a program at Palos Park. Besides
a one-act play the director gave a lecture demon-
stration on stagecraft and lighting. They have
given performances at several community centers
this year.

There is no part of the work of community
centers which is more valuable than that for
young men. Small homes force folks out of
them. Youth wants something to do and a suit-
able place for the activity. Many, many young
men had had no work for months and no decent

clothes. They appreciate the centers and begged-

that they be open longer.

Problem

Many teachers say that no young children
should be allowed in the community centers at
night. In a study of the out of school hours of
500 young children these facts are significant.
Three hundred attended community centers; 57
remained indoors evenings; not one mother or
father played with their children.

It is a fine theory that we can observe sort of a
curfew for children by which they will all stay at
home nights to study and go to bed early. It

doesn’t work. The
children are not in-
doors nights in a
high per cent of
homes. Some par-
ents do not care
where they a re.
Others feel that
night is the only
Opportunity f o 1'
their children to
deve10p interest in
leisure time activi-
ties. It is gratify-
ing to see the
young folks who
have grown up in
the center during
the past four or six
years now conduct-
in‘g th e i r own
group work and taking places on the Community
Center Council. There are children only eight
years of age in the Montefiore, Parental and
other such schools.

One of the most difficult problems is the atti-
tude of pe0ple toward the school. Fine men and
women often tell me that it was difficult to make
up their minds to come to the school center be-
cause of the unpleasant memories of some of their
school days.

Investigation of the few reports of breakage
with malice shows little ground for the reports.
There is very little trouble of this kind during the
center season, and in some places a large amount
in the day school. We have been able to change
the attitude of the groups in a number of centers ~
from a desire to destroy to a desire to build. \Ve
have a huge task in this still and for years to
come, I fear. In his Kingdom of “Do As Thou
Wilt” Rabelais excluded all of those not equal to
living under such freedom as he planned.

A few centers have had a real gang problem.
In one they did not belong to the school group.
They were rough in dress and manner and were
annoying for several weeks. At another the group
was worse. They are the gang which makes a
practice of hurting the helpless. They made the
front page by taking a crippled man to a lonely
spot and torturing him. Some of these young
men live in the district and the others are from
a section not far away. It is to the credit of that
center that they finally won over some of the
leaders. All of the work with boys is eSpecially

COMMUNITY CENTERS—A VITAL FORCE 365

interesting and important. We always hear of the
wrong things boys do. But it is difficult to make
some folks think a leader for anything but “gym”
is worth paying for.

We must begin when the children are very
young. I am happy to say that at least one group
of young parents is taking up my suggestion that
there be a sort of kindergarten training class for
them at the center next year. They will find it
great fun, too. I would like to see something of
the sort part of the high school course. Why is
it so much more necessary to learn how to handle
the automobile than the children?

\Ve meet fathers who are keen for suggestions
on psychology of selling and mothers who want
recipes for food, but just let anybody who knows
child psychology try to make one suggestion about
the way the mother is pushing her daughter away
or the father is trying to make “hard boiled” the
son who has a fine sensitive temperament l—VVe
hope to make the community center a place where
parents can learn to understand their children—
especially the emotional life.

Workers with the right ideas and personalities
and ability to use them are not easy to find. They
cannot use the methods that unfortunately so
often are used with day school children. In one
center a young woman and man (brother and sis—
ter) 'were showing talent in pottery and were
coming out of their shells of timidity. They spoke
almost no English but were trying to learn. A
young day school teacher who is on the center
staff didn’t like their way of trying to learn and
so “told them what I thought of them as I do the
children.” Of course they never came back.

During the second year of this department (five
years ago) representatives of the community cen—

ters decided to organize the Federation of Public
School Community Centers. Inasmuch as parlia-
mentarians and well known lawyers were on the
committee the constitution and by-laws were prop—
erly drawn with the necessary preambles and
wherefores. Each center is allowed three dele—
gates. The directors are the officers of the Fed-
eration and representatives of the Chicago Urban
League, the Chicago Woman’s Aid and the Adult
Education Council—organizations which are city-
wide and"'interested in all community centers.
This has proved a valuable organization.

In past years the Federation has had many
speakers at well attended monthly meetings. Now
there is a dinner meeting with a speaker in the
autumn and an annual meeting ust before centers
close. Other meetings are on call. At the annual
meeting there is election of officers and the pro-
gram is drama, music and dancing from the
various centers. There is an exhibit of handwork
from the centers. There is always a large attend-
ance and interest is keen right up to the 11:00
P. M. closing number. Except for those taking
part no children attend the meeting.

Each year these programs grow better in stand-
ard and skill. This year it was most creditable
and included drama by adult groups, chorus of
adults and of children, orchestra of children and
young folks, dancing by children and adults. Al-
though only a few minutes were allowed for a
number, the work held the enthusiastic audience.
The exhibit was truly our best yet. There was
sewing, tailoring, millinery, stitchery, painting,
dyeing, sculpture, pottery, pen and pencil sketches,
rugs of several kinds, lamp shades, composition
books by foreign born and colored people learning
to read and write, kites, reed work and woodwork.

A Civil Engineer Urges More Community Centers

Lawrence D. Bell, civil engineer of Babylon,
New York, commenting on the broad conception
of the leisure time field presented by Dr. L. P.
Jacks and other speakers at the Recreation Con—
gress in Atlantic City, urges an extension of com-
munity centers as an effective means in helping
to solve the problem of public recreation. At
the present time, Mr. Bell feels, the major em-
phasis is being laid on the provision of parks and
playgrounds, and while this is of fundamental
importance he fears the recreation movement may
be failing to develop in the community center a
means of public recreation of- equal value and
importance.

Mr. Bell suggests that a community center

' should be housed in a building which will pro—

vide: (1) A well equipped gymnasium which
could be used by boys and girls in turn as well
as the older members of the community. (2)
Meeting rooms for the clubs of the girls and
boys. (3) An auditorium for debating, literary
and dramatic clubs, lectures and concerts. (4) A
library and reading room. (5) Playrooms for
children. (6) A banquet room and kitchen facili—
ties for the use of clubs and other organizations.
(7) A ballroom, and (8) A comfortable, lobby
and lounging room with a radio and piano where
strangers and members of the community meet.

Social Recreation

as

A Joy Giving Activity

By Viola P. Armstrong

Director of Social Recreation

Detroit Department of Recreation

URING
D recent

years we
have been ex-
perimenting a
great deal in
Detroit in the
field of social
recreation, and
we are finding
that it answers
one of the very
greatest of re-
creational
needs.

Let us con-
sider for a mo-
ment Webster’s
definition of “social” and “recreation”:

Social—of or pertaining to companionship; that
which has to do with human intercourse.

Recreation—refreshment of the strength and
spirit after toil; diversion; act of being recreated.

The real significance then of social recreation is
that it not only should recreate, that is, provide
true refreshment of the strength and spirit, but
it needs to furnish, at the same time, companion-
ship. A social recreation program which accom-
plishes this is truly making a real contribution to
happiness. ‘ "

Professor Hayden of Chicago University said in
an article in the October, 1930, Survey Graphic,
“There are four things that people need: (1)

366

 

Social recreation promotes fellow-
shlp

O pportunity
for creative ex-
pression; (2)
Fellowship in
friendly human
g r o u p s — a
sense of be-
longing to; (3)
Senseofab
homeness in the
universe; (4)
Sharing with
the best heri‘
tage of the race
— a knowledge
and apprecia-
tion of history
and training

In friendly human groups.

that mankind has discovered.”

Sharing Beauty

We are surrounded by beauty at all times-—
beauty that is ours for the taking—yet how many
of us pass it by with eyes that see not and ears
that hear not. How miich more eagerly many
people accept the worthless things in life, passing
by that which is line because they have not yet
learned to distinguish between those things that
are worth while and those things which are not.
And here we recreation leaders can be trail blazers
—keeping the paths always open to the best things
that can be had, and, like the Pied Piper, making
these paths so fascinating that everyone is eager

A JOY GIVING ACTIVITY 367

to drop whatever he has been doing and follow
where they lead.

Everyone has greater leisure than ever before,
but how few really interesting and worth while
things can be enjoyed alone! How many of us,
forced to see a lovely picture, a beautiful bit of
scenery or a gorgeous sunset alone, have realized
that sharing it with another Would greatly have
enhanced its beauty. Sharing is a very necessary
part of life.

An artist shares his experiences whether he
paints a picture, plays a piece of music or writes
a bit of poetry. Art, then, is essentially social,
because it originates in the need of the artist to
share. The fine arts both rest and in5pire, there—
fore they are recreative as well as social.

Folk Dancing and Social Recreation

One of the arts that can be successfully and
easily fitted into an evening of social recreation
and to the true social value of which many of us
are only just awakening, is folk dancing.

“Dancing in its wholesome and beautiful as-
pects is as truly the storehouse of the emotions
and social experiences of the race as any other
art.”*

We must be careful, however, not to confuse
folk dancing with the modern couple dance. The
latter is almost entirely a commercialized product
of this age of restlessness, jazz and machinery,
while the former has grown for centuries out of
the very life of the people. Folk dances are a
group activity, and when presented and partici-
pated in in the true Spirit, cannot fail to deve10p
cooperation and sociability. Folk dances and folk
games, play party games and our old-fashioned
square and contra dances are largely group activi—
ties requiring varying numbers of people. They
are, in reality, merely game patterns set to-music
and have grown out of the play life of many
nations through many centuries. They are more
truly social than the dancing which we call social
dancing. The dancers are constantly changing
places and usually dancing, not with their part—
ners alone, but with everyone else in the group as
well. This brings about a Spirit of fun and social
fellowship. Each person is no longer just an
individual, but a very definite part of the whole
group and must 'be ready to do his part. Thus
each one contributes to the good time of all.

The music and tunes, as well as the words,
where there are any, have also come from the

people themselves. They, too, are a rehearsal of_

 

'*Fine Arts in Recreation—Handy Kit 17.

the experiences of these simple folk to whom we'
are indebted for them. Many of the tunes are
truly lovely and grow lovelier as we learn to
know them better.

Folk dances and folk games, which sometimes
are quite active, are not so great a physical strain
as many of our running games and relays. As
an international activity they may prove quite
valuable. Through them is aroused a greater
understanding and appreciation of the pe0ple who
have given 'them to us. One cannot dance the
folk dances nor sing the folk songs of any people
without gaining some insight into the life of
these people. We become comrades as we share
these rich experiences of others.

The Play Party

Play party games may also form a happy part
of any social evening. As mixers they cannot be
surpassed. The play party is a distinct type of
entertainment which grew up in communities
where the peOple were dependent on their own
resources. Not even a piano or a fiddle was neces—
sary to the success of the party. These games are
really very simple folk dances with the players
furnishing their own music by singing or clapping
as they 'go through the various figures. They are
usually played in groups of almost any size and
very often they do not even require partners.
Whenever they do the changing of partners is so
frequent that the greatest number of social con-
tacts are made possible; Everyone contributes his
share to both the music and the action. This de-
velops cooperation and sociability. ”

Among the games that we have found most
valuable additions to the program of any mixed
adult group are Brown Eyed Mary, Push the
Business On, Susan Brown, Bingo, N eedle’s Eye,
The Old Brass Wagon, Golden Slippers and Skip
to My Lou. However, there are many others,
characteristic of the community from which they
come.

The play party does not claim to have originated
in America, though it comes to us from our early
settlers who brought with them into this new
country of America the peculiar traditions and
customs of the old world. Some of them may be
recognized as Scotch, Irish and German, but the
majority as English. The Play Party in Indiana,
by Leah Wolford, published by the Indiana His-
torical Commission, Indianapolis, will give one a
vivid picture of this early type of social recreation.
much of which we have found worthy of reviving.
Lynn Rohrbough’s ‘Handy 11” also has a most

368 A JOY GIVING ACTIVITY

interesting chapter on the play party and contains
many of the choicest of these games.

A well planned evening with marches, mixers,
active games, relays, folk games, folk dances or
play party games, along with periods for in-
between or “chair” games and stunts, bringing
the evening to a climax with a group game, song
or dance, in which all participate, has never failed
in sending everyone home refreshed, happy and
better able to meet the problems of tomorrow.

If you want to get a real thrill, put on an eve-
ning of this type with a group of Parent-Teachers
Or any other so-called “grown-ups” who have for-
gotten the word play as applied to themselves.
You will hear many a “Why, I haven’t had such
a good time since I can remember,” “I feel like a
boy again,” “I haven’t laughed so hard in years,”
“Will you ever forget Mr. So-and-So ?” “This is
the best tonic I’ve ever taken for tired nerves, it
beats medicine.” One Jewish mother told me not
long ago that she had never had as much fun
before in her life. Think of being able to offer
anyone that much fun and so easily!

Why have they had such a good time and why
do they feel younger? They have forgotten them-
selves in ‘play! They have become again the chil-
dren they are at heart, forgetting that they are
dignified business men and women with many
responsibilities and worries, or that they have done
a big washing and seem to be physically tired out.
Some who come to such an evening are appar-
ently so fatigued that at first they do not believe
they can participate. Then they are drawn in by
the fun and almost invariably they forget to get
out and they take part the entire evening. After
an hour or so of games, singing and folk dances
they 'are completely rested, not only mentally and
spiritually, but even physically. Our program
should entice people 'to play, not force them, and
we should make it easier and less embarrassing to
‘get in than to stay out. To lose one’s self com-
pletely in any worth while activity is a real thrill.

Do not hesitate to. use this type of program for
most any adult group. You will be surprised and
happy at the'results. Any dull evening can be
made brighter through them and even our younger
generation are enthusiastic once they have learned
the real fun they produce. Here is a test of real
leadership:

To share these folk things with others, how-
ever, one should first have acquired not only the
letter but the spirit as well. We cannot just do
them, we must also feel them as well, and one
who cannot feel them will be unable to offer them

to others. We cannot share with others something
we do not possess ourselves.

Popular Activities

Some of the folk dances and games that have
proved most useful in creating the social feeling
and interest of large mixed groups are:

The \Vheat (Czecho Slovakia)
The Thief (Norway)

Ach Jal (Germany)

Come let us be Joyful (Germany)
Gustaf’s Toast (Sweden)
Roselille (Denmark)
Miatelitza (Russia)

Seven Steps (Austria)

John Brown (America)
Captain Jinks (America)
Sicilian Circle (America)

These are all so very simple that any group may
become familiar with them within a very few
moments.

The fact that we are suggesting the more gen-
eral use of folk games and dances in our adult
social recreation does not mean that it is the only
type of program that tends to socialize and fur-
nish companionship. Any worth while activity
may be “social.” Table game parties are a pleas-
ant change for those who usually want to play
bridge, and equally enjoyable for those who do
not. Used progressively, they bring about socia-
bility and friendliness, which are not nearly so
marked in bridge and other games where the
recreation has been forgotten in the desire to win.
Bridge is one of our finest games, but it does
not contain as much of the social element as many
of our other games.

Singing is another of our very best socializers.
Most people like to sing whether they can sing
well or not, and singing together does establish a
very happy fellowship and informality. How-
ever, the type of songs we choose decides quite
definitely the real value of the activity.

The Social Leader

Just a few words to the social leader who is to
accomplish all this:

There are many qualifications necessary for a
successful leader—all or many of which most
recreation workers are thoroughly familiar with.
However, there are two which are often neglected
or entirely forgotten. Because they seem to play
such an important part in any kind of leadership,
but especially so in social recreation leadership,
they need to be emphasized.

The first is enthusiasm.

Many people confuse
enthusiasm with what is
usually called “pep.”
They really have little in
common. Genuine en-
thusiasm is a Spiritual
something that comes
from within and radiates
to the entire group.' It

is the result of a sincere

A JOY GIVING ACTIVITY

"We believe that man is essentially a social being.
His highest creative experience cannot find its
most significant meaning apart from the social
group. As a creative spirit, man seeks fellowship
with other creative spirits,- he feels a covenant
relation with them. At his best he feels a sense
of kinship with all human beings, and an apprecia-
tion of the creation of the ages.

"We desire to use recreation to lead ourselves
and others into a joyous creative experience. We
are eager to share the folk experiences and tra-
ditions of all peoples and to build for ourselves
an attitude toward life as a whole, which will make

369

with all with whom we
can? We gather—then
we sow. Scatter about
these seeds of recreation,
and see how quickly they
grow up and in turn pro-
duce more seeds and
happiness.

And so we must con-
stantly ‘be busy with our
gathering,—new ideas,

love and faith in recrea-
tion and is shown in
one’s eyes, one’s smile,
one’s whole attitude.
While “pep” is physical
and will antagonize and bore people, enthusiasm
acts in quite a different manner. It is a con—
tagious sort of thing that reaches out and em-
braces everyone nearby. It is more than manner
—it is an inner force which when rightly used can
do a great deal toward Spreading the oy of recrea—
tion anywhere and any time.

The second thing that seems so essential is
a “love of people.” You will need a combination
of these two if you expect to have real social
recreation leadership. Your group is much more
important than your game. It is wiser to build
your program around your group than to try to
make the group lit the program. We must con—
stantly study our groups and strive always to
arouse and hold their interest and enthusiasm.

Why should we as leaders be always eager to
grow in our work? Is it not that we may give
more? And is this giving not a gathering of
everything useful and passing it on, sharing it

social recreation

for satisfactions which abide."
Quotation from recreation creed adopted at
institute,

Michigan, May, 1931.

new, games, new under-
standing — anything that
will help to make recrea-
tion more truly recrea-
tive. We cannot con-
stantly give out unless we are ever taking in, nor
can we sit idle waiting for new things to come
to us. It means real work, but we cannot be suc'—
cessful recreation leaders without a great deal of
effort. And yet it should be a labor of joy—this
planting of happiness—and at no time has it
seemed a more worthy undertaking than at this
time of economic stress.

Never miss an opportunity to learn a new folk
dance, a new song, a new playground game or
activity. No good idea is ever lost, nor need it be
unused. It always means happiness for someone.

Let us not regard recreation as a means of
earning a living, but as a real privilege that has
been given us.

Prepare your program carefully and meet
your group confidently and joyously and you
will not fail to radiate a something that will
make whatever recreation you offer delightfully
contagious.

Walden Woods,

Recreation as Big as Life Itself

ECREATION, if defined rightly, is as big as

life itself. It is the abundant life or will

serve to make life more abundant, richer, fuller,
and more complete. '

Leaders are necessary, but they must know
how far to reach and how to bring out the rest,
as everybody is a potential leader in a social rec—
reation conference.

I have always wanted to discover just how far
certain social barriers could be broken down by
recreation; just how much real brotherhood could
be developed—that is, lasting and permanent
brotherhood, the kind that carries over from the
group in which you play to other groups; the bar-

rier of race and class; the common denominator.

When we have made people have a good time,
our job is only half done. We must also do our
best to change society so that there will be a
minimum of drudgery and a maximum of creat-
ivity. For creation and achievement are the pur-
pose in life.

In order to get society to change from a com-
petitive struggle to a cooperative and helpful
group, we must get small groups of people living
together, playing together, cooperating together.“-
From Impressions of the Social Recreation Con-
ference at Walden Woods by George Burcham,
Evanston, Illinois, “Kit 26.”

Adults

at

Play

By Lynn R'ohrbough
Social Recreation Union

Delaware, Ohio

[a T a Farm Bureau meeting where fifty

people were crowded into a five-room
country home, a dozen assorted puzzles
were provided for the old fellows who could not
be budged loose from their chairs to play games,
take part in a stunt, or dance the Virginia Reel
in the kitchen. Several already knew how to take
the twisted nails apart; they showed others and
called for the hard puzzles, and by refreshment
time practically all, old and young, were in a
huddle trying to work out a puzzle. Working
them out was an excuse for the talking which so
many adults, especially rural adults, enjoy as a
recreation.
Making Things
Somewhat along the same line, a surprising
interest developed out of a game class at the adult
leadership conference at Camp Ohio this summer.
A simple workbench with a few tools had been
set up in the recreation tent for a demonstration
in making game equipment. A county agent took
a piece of wire and made up a clever spiral puzzle
which was put on exhibit.
First one and then another
would be reminded of some
old puzzle of wire, string,
or wood, which he had known
years ago, and by the end of
the week we had a collection
of some fifteen puzzle games,
ranging from the old heart
and bead to the Devil’s
Needle, and a 45 peg solitaire
board which the father of

370

ways popular.

Mr. Rohrbough, whose "Kit" and

other publications on social recrea-
tion are so widely and favorably
known, tells here of adults as he has
watched them at play. They like a
variety of things, he has found.
Puzzles, making things, dancing,
archery, play party games, are a
few of the activities which are al-

 

Playing games out-of-doors add:
much to their enjoyment and value

one of the leaders had worked months in solving,
years before. Scores of copies of the games
were made by leaders to take home, and sev-
eral were heard to remark that it was the
first time in years that they had had a chance to
handle tools. It was real recreation in the best
sense of the word. At least three men became
so enthusiastic about the possibilities of the pro-
ject that they later used the games as a craft
project in county 4-H Club camps.

A Quarter Century’s Enjoyment

It is quite obvious that adults like an element
of permanence in their recreation, in striking con-
trast to the fluttering interest of adolescents. Last
Spring we invited in a number of middle aged
and elderly couples who knew old fashioned
dancing, to meet Miss Elizabeth Burchenal who
happened to be visiting in our town. In the
group were four couples who had danced to-
gether regularly for more than twenty-five years.
At the end of the evening
someone asked “Billy” Fos-
ter, our neighbor, who had
“called,” if he knew any more
dances in addition to the
twenty changes we had
danced, and in' checking up it
was discovered that the group
knew more than fifty different
figures. Anyone looking for
social recreation of the high-
est order would give a small

ADULTS AT PLAY 371

fortune to acquire a charming and completely en—
joyable activity, such as these old folk dances,
good for a lifetime. ‘

Reviving an Ancient Craft

A year ago last May, Foster Jones spent a
couple of days with us at Lake Geneva making
archery tackle and showing us the rudiments of
shooting arrows with bows. He described the
interest which had grown into an archery club
among the young people of his church in Detroit,
and his enthusiasm was so contagious that several
of the group have spent a great deal of time since
then on it. For example, Owen Geer, a member
of the staff of the Methodist Board of Education,
made a workshOp in his basement, and in the past
fifteen months has made up a beautiful collection
of bows in lemonwood, hickory, cedar, and osage-
orange, not to mention a bundle of shafts large
enough to outfit a large class. This summer, as
he traveled from Summer School to Camp Con-
ference, the back of his car was filled with tackle
and tools. Arriving, he finds a little corner and
sets up shop to have a good time. Of course,
quite accidentally, there are always a few who
don’t care for the high pressure competitive rec-
reation program, and drift around to help him
out. He has planted outposts of archery enthu-
siasts behind him in all parts of the country, thus
demonstrating the value of finding a recreational
activity of sufhcient depth and breadth that you
can introduce it to others.

Grown-up Youngsters

One can never foretell what childish thing an
adult group is going to enjoy the most. To illus-
trate, at the scheduled party of the Four-State
Club Leaders’ Conference at Pokagon Park on a
sweltering evening in August, we decided to
“break the ice” with some old pioneer “play:
party” games. The social room had been pre—
empted by a visiting Rotary Ladies’ Night and
we had to get along with a cleared space in the
lobby. By the time we had romped through
“Three Old Maids” and “Skip to My Lou,” all of
our group and several visitors were in the circle,
hot weather temporarily forgotten. Old favorites
were called out, one following another: “Pig in
the Parlor,” “Somebody Waiting,” “Jolly Miller,”
“Pass One Window,” “Turn the Glasses Over,”
“Bingo,” and “Brown Eyed Mary,” until there
was no time left for the adult program which had

been planned. Meanwhile the Rotarians had fin—
ished their party and stood around four deep for
half an hour watching the fun, which continued
through all the figures of the Virginia Reel,
danced to play-party tunes “Old Brass Wagon”
and “Down the River.” The next night a group

was heard playing some of the games waist deep
in the lake.

Social Recreation as a By-product

The men’s club of a tiny rural church near
Swanton, Ohio, under the leadership of the Rev.
and Mrs. C. I. Lau, have turned an abandoned
farm into a rural community center. They have
named it “Dream Haven” and have laid out play
courts, picnic grounds, and a vesper hill, all under
volunteer leadership. Observing the group of
men who were responsible for a second very suc-
cessful community play day this July with 300
rural pe0ple participating, it was quite evident, it
seemed to me, that the “workers” had shared a
deeper social recreational experience than was
possible to those who merely came to “play.”
Building play equipment, planning activities and
directing the good times of others is work to the
professional recreation leader, but properly moti-

vated and appreciated, it is real recreation to
volunteers.

General Observations

Recreationally, adults are doubtless the most
ill-adjusted age group of modern society. Many
never learned to play. Others specialized, or fol—
lowed popular fads, and now find themselves
stranded and bored with the passing of adolescent
interests. Many no longer reSpond to outside
leadership as children or youths do. Friends are
not so easily made after thirty is passed.

Yet on the whole adults have the same ability
to acquire new interests and skills that belong to
earlier life. Normal adults are hungry for recog-
nition, for satisfying membership in a congenial
group. They like to achieve and have recogni—
tion. Most grown-ups like to make beautiful or
interesting things with their hands. .Given a
chance, they like to use their minds; they like to
acquire and share ideas. They can find pleasure
in simple, elemental things that leave sophisticated
adolescents cold. Perhaps the chief objective of
leadership for adult groups should be to make
leadership unnecessary as quickly as possible, by
deve10ping a taste and ability to find one’s own
recreations free from external stimulus.

_ Principles Involved in Planning a Party

By Mary ]. Breen

ready to issue his yearly summons to his

mid-winter Dance Carnival. The workers,
a handful of boys and girls, look over their handi-
work with justifiable self pride. In an almost
unbelievably short time they have transformed a
bare school gymnasium into an Ice Queen’s Pal-
ace. Everywhere there are flakes of snow dust,
glittering water crystals, pine trees, and sprigs of
evergreen. From the rafters hang icicle stalactites
and cotton pqu balls. Around the balcony railings
prance haughty cardboard reindeers, the contribu-
tion of the Manual Training Class. Over all
shimmers a chaste blue light in which dance
snowflakes and sparkling ice crystals. This magic
transformation is a spectacle of ingenuity and
inventiveness. It reveals an unrestrained play
of imagination. In their enthusiasm these boys
and girls utilized the most significant successful
party essentials,—those high spots which leaders
are so apt to forget.

Creating a state of readiness is the most im—
portant of party principles. Intriguing invitations
and attractive decorations are the most subtle of
all ice breakers. Who can re-
sist the coquettish dame who
bids him to a St. Valentine’s
party, the paper bonnet sug—
gesting it is time to primp
for an Easter social, or the
gumdrop nosegay announc-
ing playtime out-of-doors?
Book stores, stationery depart-
ments and party sections of

372

KING \N'INTER, a snow man of cotton, is

FOR HALLOWE'EN

October brings Hallowe'en. Are
you making your plans for the an-
nual party? Write the National
Recreation Association for "Fun
for Hallowe'en," a new bulletin
just issued containing suggestions

for a party, and for two amusing
dramatic stunts. 5.25. for

Successful parties do not
"iust grow" like Topsy!
There is a real art about
party planning and definite
principles must be followed.

magazines reveal treasure houses of ideas for
novel invitations. Decorations need never be
lavish or extravagant. Any room can be easily
transformed with gaily patterned screens, rugs
and cushions. One leader, realizing the effect
of color on the emotions, refuses to use a drab
piece of string where a colored one can be used.‘
Another suggests an old costume party where
there are limited opportunities for introducing
color into the background. Still another uses
ingenious decorative devices to relieve restraint
and to develop that “party-frame-of-mind.”
Everyone remembers the “Chamber of Horrors”
at a l-Iallowe’en party. This leader makes use of
the same idea by designing appropriate party en-
trances,—a tepee to an Indian party, a cage for
an animal fair, a tent for a circus, and an Igloo
for an Eskimo social.

Parties should provide variety from routine
work-a-day life. So-called “games parties”
should not be overdone. One woman confessed
amazement on hearing the boys and girls who
attended her New Year’s party ask if they might
sit around the fire and just sing and tell stories.
Another showed even greater
consternation when invited by
a group of youngsters to a
good old time “Fruit Party”
with Jack-O-Lanterns. Jap-
anese tea parties, newspaper
socials, foolish Bridge parties,
old fashioned husking bees,
afford limitless opportunities
novelty and appeal.

PRINCIPLES IN PARTY PLANNING 373

Suggestions for novel socials are published from
time to time by the W oman’s Home Companion,
the Ladies Home Journal and similar magazines.
Ten Recreational Parties published by the
\Voman’s Press, New York City, contains direc-
tions for such picturesque parties as an Italian
Street Scene, a Gypsy Scene, a Peanut Party and
a Doll Party. Any number of books on parties
are now available for the conscientious hostess.

No matter how unusual a party, however, the
program for it must always be well planned. Most
leaders know the most important fundamentals of
program building. The following are a few re-
minders:

1. Start a party as soon as the first guest ar-
rives. Conversational games in which participa-
tion is informal are particularly appropriate.

2. ,Use mixers to socialize and unify the group.
Some of the best of the old favorites are grand
marches, Rig-a-jlg-jig, Shake and Run, Hello and
Goodbye.

3. Arrange games in an easy sequence accord-
ing to the forms of playing. Lead naturally and
Without confusion from circle to line games.

4. Vary programs so that they include quiet
games, simple dramatic stunts, musical nonsense,

rhymes and stunt songs. An interlude of such
activities provides relaxation after the climax has
been reached in a program of physical activities.

5. Close the program with a “bang.” Never
let a party fade out. Nothing is so deadly as hav-
ing people stand around awkwardly waiting for
an opportunity to say good-night. Remember the

.“lets-do-it-again” feeling brings people back a

second time. Games like Good-night, Ladies, and
carefully'planned songs leading from popular to
old familiarrtunes leave no doubt but that “good
friends must part.”

Successful parties evoke pleasurable anticipa-
tion instead of apathy, joyousness instead of mere
boisterousness, and genuine happiness instead of
half -hearted amusement. To lead parties in which
there is so much joie-de-vivre, leaders must ac—
quire early the ability to work easily with people,
a sense of humor, an enthusiasm that is contagious
and vitalizing, and the ability to minimize em-
barrassment and restraint. Under such leader-
ship, parties are sure to be refreshing. They are
bound to develop those group responses which
every leader seeks—pre-party anticipation, whole
hearted participation, and the satisfying realiza-
tion that play is mostly for the fun ofoit.

Ice Breakers in 1882

THAT there are certain experiences which do
not vary greatly from age to age is borne out
in an old book on games entitled N ew Games for
Parlor and Lawn, published by Harper and Broth-
ers in 1882. In those days, as in our own, hos-
tesses at parties apparently had difficulty in “get-
ting started,” and so we find a chapter in the book
dedicated to “Mirthful Magic or How to Turn
a Dull Party Into a Merry One.”

“When young people, and often old ones also,
first arrive at a party they are apt to feel a little
stiff and awkward, and to stand about in corners,
as if oppressed with the responsibility of their
best gloves and clothes, and the giver of entertain-
ment seeks in vain to enliven and stir them up.
For her aid we propose to give a few simple re-
ceipts which will answer the purpose, and give
them a good laugh, after which they will be ready
for the harder games which will follow. First
she may ask them to join in the game of ‘Satis-
faction.’ Every person in the room is invited to
stand up, and all join hands in a ring, in the centre

of which the leader stands, holding a cane in her
hand, with which she points to each one in turn,
and asks this question, ‘Are you satisfied?’ Each
replies in turn as he or she pleases, many probably
saying ‘No,’ and others ‘Yes.’ The leader then
says, “All who are satisfied may sit down, the
others may stand up until they are satisfied.’ ”

A sample of the “receipts” offered follows:

“M esmeric Trick. Offer to mesmerize any lady
so that she cannot get up alone; and when'one
volunteers place her in a chair in the centre of the
room, and sit facing her, requesting all the com-
pany to keep quiet and unite their wills with
yours. Ask the lady to fold her arms and lean
back comfortably, and proceed to make a variety
of passes and motions with your hands with great
solemnity. After a few moments say, ‘Get up;
and as she rises from her chair you rise at the
same moment and say, ‘I told you you could not‘
get up alone.’ If she suspects a trick and does not
rise, of course your reply is the same.”

Social Games and Stunts

T was a group of enthusiastic
I leaders at the 1930 Recrea-

tion Congress who until late
one night demonstrated games
and told one another of the so-
cial activities they had found
most successful in their pro-
grams. It was no theoretical discussion but a
practical “give and take,” and each delegate came
away with new ideas for his winter parties.

Here are a few of the games they taught one
another to play:

Have You Seen My Sheep?

The players stand in a circle. One walks
around on the outside. He touches one of the
circle players on the back and asks, “Have you
seen my sheep?” The one questioned answers,
“How was he dressed?” The outside player then
describes the dress of someone in the circle say-
ing, for instance, “He wears a red necktie; he is
dressed in gray and he has low shoes.” The one
questioned then names the one whom he thinks
this describes, and if right, at once begins to run
after him around the circle. Each of the circle
players must be very alert to recognize himself
in the description given by the outside player,
for as soon as he is named he must run around
the outside of the circle chased by the player
who guessed, and try to reach his own place be-
fore being tagged. The one who gives the
description does not take part in the chase. Should
the runner be tagged before returning to his place,
he must take the place of the questioner, running
in his turn around the circle and asking of some
player, “Have you seen my sheep?”

Old Sayings (Double Quick Relay)

The players are divided into two lines or teams
of equal numbers who stand facing each other.
A box, a table or a chair is placed at end of each
‘line. A block, a bean bag, a book, or whatnot
should be placed on the box at one end of each
line. Each player of every line is numbered con-
secutively from number one up, so that there is a
number one in each line, a number two in each

374

At the Recreation Congress, held at Atlantic Cit in October, 1930,
a practical demonstration of social games was held
assumed responsibility for teaching games which they had found
particularly popular. The games were later compiled by W. T. Reed,
Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, Altoona, Pennsylvania. A
few of the games from Mr. Reed's compilation are presented here.

in which delegates

line, etc. Each number of both lines is given a
name, such as, number one’s—Feather,‘ number
two’s—Picture; number three’s—l/Vhistle. The
director calls for two players by announcing the
first part of a well known phrase, such as, “As
light as a . . . . . . .. (feather)”; “As pretty as a
. . . . . . . . (picture).” The two players whose
names are designated, race to the end of the line
where the object has been placed, carry it to the
Opposite end of the line, place it on the box, table
or chair or whatever it may be and return to
their places in the line. The first person to reach
his place in line scores one point for his side.
The following phrases are suggested:

1. Hard as a Rock 18. Fat as a Pig

2. Light as a Feather 19. Sly as a Fox

3. White as Snow 20. Thin as a Rail

4. Cold as Ice 21. Strong as an Ox

5. Hot as Fire 22. Cross as a Bear

6. Yellow as Gold 23. Neat as a Pin

7. Fine as Sill-c 24. Dead as a Doornail

8. Sweet as Honey 25. Flat as a Pancake

9. Clear as a Crystal 26. Red as a Beet

10. Green as Grass 27. Blind as a Bat

11. Large as an Elephant 28. Busy as a Bee

12. Sharp as a Razor 29. Happy as a Lark

13. High as a Mountain 30. Slow as a Snail

14. Dry as a Bone 31. Clean as a \Vhistle

15. Sour as a Lemon 32. Fit as a Fiddle

16. Pretty as a Picture 33. Fierce as a Tiger

17. Black as a Crow 34. Quick as Lightning
Man Race

Divide the group into equal teams. Players
stand in a line, one behind the other, facing a
blackboard or large piece of brown paper. At
the signal from the leader, the first person in each
line runs to the blackboard or paper and draws
some part of a man, such as body, head or any
one part. As soon as that person has finished,
he runs and touches off the next person in line
who repeats the performance. The line which
finishes first is given one point, the most com-
plete “man,” one point, and the “best looking”
man, a point. The relay may be repeated several
times.

SOCIAL GAMES AND STUNTS 375

Nursery Rhyme Contest

The group is divided into two. One group
starts singing a nursery rhyme, always closing
with the words “she threw it out the window.”
For example:

Mary had a little lamb,

Its fleece was white as snow;
Everywhere that Mary went
She threw it out the window.

As soon as one group stops singing one rhyme, the
second group starts another. The game is finished
as soon as either side reaches the end of its
repertoire or repeats a rhyme sung by the other
side. The success of the game depends largely
upon the quickness of response and the zest with
which the rhymes are sung.

0 Chester Hat/e Y on. ’Eared about Hairy?
(Tune: Yankee Doodle)

O Chest-er have you ’eared about Hairy
Chest got back from the Army,

I ’ear he nose how to wear a rose

Hip, hip, hooray for the Army.

As this parody is sung, the singers slap the parts
of the body named. The best effect is obtained
by starting slowly and then quickening speed each
time the song is repeated.

Aeh Ja!

Wenn der Vater und die Mutter
In die Kirche weite gehen
Ach Ja! Ach Jal
Und haben wir kein geld,
So hab’n die ander’ Leut’
Ach Ja! Ach Ja!

Chorus :

Tra la la, Tra la la, tra la la la la la la
Tra la la, Tra la la, tra la la la la la la

(A group which does not know the words may
hum the music of the verse, saying only “ach ja”
and “tra 1a.”)

1. Partners join adjacent hands, the man with
the left hand toward the center of the circle and
with the girl on the man’s right. They walk to
the right around the circle seven steps; partners
then face each other, release hands and bow very
simply by bending at the hips on “ach,” then turn
back to back and bow again on “ja.”

2. Repeat from the beginning.

3. Chorus—partners join hands on chorus and
step to the side and then stop, bringing the feet
together (step, close) and so on for four steps
to the man’s left and the girl’s right, and finish-
ing with the bows as before. Note: The music
for “Ach Ia” and “Thief” has been copyrighted

by Neva Boyd. It can be found in Handy II.*

*Church Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $2.50.

Sneeze C oneert

Divide the audience into three convenient sec-
tions and announce that these directions for a
gigantic community sneeze be followed closely:

When you have counted three, everyone pres-
ent is to throw back his head, open wide his
mouth, and——

Section one will shout “Hish”

Section two will shout “Hash”

Section three will shout “Choc”—

All at the same time and as loudly as possible.

Pufferbilly Song

Down at the station, early in the morning,
See the little Pufferbillies standing in a row
See the engine driver twist the little handle,
Tsti—Tsti—Toot-l—Toot! There they go.

(May be used as a two or four part round. Music
to this found in the Girl Scout Song Book.)'}'

Spoke Relay

The players stand in five or more divisions in a
single hle, facing the common center. This for—
mation is like the spokes of a wheel. There shall
be one odd player who shall run outside the circle
and tag the end player of any one line. This
player shall pass the tag to the player in front of
him in his same line and each player does the same
until the player who is last is tagged. At the
instant the player receives the tag he passes it
forward and starts at once around the circle com-
ing back Where he started. The fun comes in the
pushing and squeezing while circling the outside
in order that the player shall not be left out.

Thief

Players take partners and stand, in a single
circle facing in. One player in the circle is with-
out a partner and is the first “thief.” To the music
the thief skips sideways, diagonally across the
circle and steals a partner from someone in the
circle. Taking both her hands, he skips back
across the circle to his place in line. The player
whose partner was stolen immediately skips side-
ways across the circle and takes some other
player’s partner and they both skip back to place.
This continues without any interruption, the
player whose partner has been stolen in each case
immediately skipping sideways to secure another.
In this game the players must not be allowed to
lag, but must move rapidly.

 

_*Girl Scouts, Incorporated, 670 Lexington Avenue, New York
City. $1.00.

Music

Community Centers

T eight o’clock every
A Monday evening in
one of the com-
munity centers of a large
mid-western city a com-
munity sing was offered.
The elective and volunteer
council of citizens in
charge of the center felt
responsibility in making
this endeavor successful.
They wanted their center
to have music as well as
many other things, and
some of them could be
seen at almost every sing.
One of them acted as
press agent and they all
felt urged to attract people
in any way they could to
these Monday evening
gatherings. But after eight
weeks of such effort the
Council voted emphatically

to drop community singing. The number par-
ticipating in it, about forty in the beginning, had

dwindled to eight or ten.

Now a tonic of good, lastingly palatable “food”
for singing and some for listening, an interest in

376

A plea for permeating

, the entire community
In center program with the

best music has to offer

By Augustus Delaneld Zanzig

Director of Music
National Recreation Association

 

At a number of the San Francisco centers there
are choruses of older women meetlng regularly.

dramatizing some of the witty old ballads, the
stimulus of a project such as singing between the
acts of a play, or some other vitalizing inHuences,
might have made this musical patient flourish very
happily. But there were many other opportunities

MUSIC IN COMMUNITY CENTERS 377

for community singing in that community center
that were neglected.

A visitor going through the building one eve-
ning found young men in a gymnasium class
marching around in silence with orderly, vigorous
step, but without the liberating buoyancy and
swing of movement that marching should have.
A good brass band would have helped enormously
if the place were larger, and almost as helpful
would have been the piano if it were well played
and if it were in tune. But a good hiking song
sung by the boys themselves would have been
best of all.

In the auditorium on the
same evening a group of
women, some of them mid-
dle-aged, were engaged in
what was evidently one of
the last rehearsals of a sort
of burlesque show. The
leader, locally famous for
his radio “jazz patters,” was
playing That’s M 3; Weak—
ness N are and shouting di-
rections to the women, who were wriggling or
strutting around the stage or in a row in the
front of it and yowling the chorus. A pathetic
sight it was, without laughter; apparently a des-
perate but vain effort to be gay. One thought of
the really gay singing and dancing they might
be having, and of other deeper and romantic
things about womanhood; and he very soon turned
away from that show.

In a classroom nearby a small group were
rehearsing Barrie’s The Old Lady Shows Her

Medals, a delightful antidote to what the audi-.

torium was forced to hold. This and two other
short plays were later to be given to the folk of
the center. There was to be music between the
plays, which was to be provided by the “jazz
patter” man! But why not have a group of men
sing the Scottish Bonnie Dundee or The Hundred
Pipers before or after that Barrie play, and have
them followed by a chorus of women in another
good Scottish or an English folk song, and then
the men and women together in such a song as
A3! Waukin, O or The Blue Bells of Scotland?
This singing might be all the more intertwined in
the thread of the Barrie tale if it were “behind
the scenes.” Why struggle to attract people to
community singing on Monday evenings and then
have “jazz patters” when the people are attracted
to a play that, like many other plays, can be very
happily wedded to music that is appropriate both

These suggestions For music in community
centers have been taken from a chapter en-
titled Music in Settlements and Community
Centers, which will appear in a lorthcomin

9
book, Music in American Life. This book,
to be published by the Oxford University

Press, incorporates the results of a study of
community music made by Mr. Zanzig For

the National Recreation Association. An- 2- Springs Messenger
nouncement will be made later of the pub-

lication of the book.

to itself and to the community singers or players?
The whole audience might well have sung Annie
Laurie or the like.

There were several other activities scheduled
for that evening in the center. A mothers’ club
had a sewing bee which was also very much of a
talking bee and might have included some informal
singing. Lacking someone to start a song and
help to keep it going, a good phonograph spar-
ingly used might very well have done the trick
with only the help of one of the mothers to start
it off. The following songs have been recorded
for the very purpose of per-
suading and otherwise help-
ing people of all ages to
sing. them:

Songs People Enjoy
 Victor
Records

1. Spring Song (Chopin) ;

(Schumann); 3. Autumn
(Franz); 4. Greeting
(Mendelssohn) . . . . . . . . 20343
1. Morning Song
(Grieg) ; 2. The Rose
(Franz) ; 3. The Jolly Miller (Schubert) ; 4. The
Brooklet (Schubert) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20343

1. Lavender’s Blue (English) ; 2. I Had a Little Nut
Tree (English); 3. Golden Slumbers (English);
4. Sweet N ightingalé (English); 5. The Spanish
Gypsy (Spanish) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 20986
1. Going Through Lorraine (French); 2. Praise
to the Father (Dutch) ; 3. La Cachucha (Spanish) ;
4. Bosnian Shepherd Song (Bosnia) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20986

1. Lullaby (Cradle Song) (arr. Brahms) ; 2. Little
Dustman (Brahms) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. 20737
1. Hey Baloo (Schumann); 2. The Linden Tree

(Schubert) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20737

1. Away for Rio (Sailor’s Chantey) ; 2. Blow the
Man Down (Sailor’s Chantey) ;. 3. Sourwood
Mountain (Kentucky Folk); 4. Billy Boy_ (Old
English); 5. Begone, Dull Care (Old English).. 21751
1. Sweet Kitty Clover (Knight-Kean); 2. Bende-
meer’s Stream (Old Tune) ; 3. Frog Went a-Court-
ing (Kentucky Folk); 4. Spanish Guitar (College
Song) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21751

1. Flow- Gently Sweet Afton (Burns-Spilman);
2. Sally in Our Alley (Old English) ; 3. Ye Banks
and Braes of Bonnie Doon (Old Scotch) . . . . . . .. 4083

1. John Peel (Border Song); 2. Scots Wha’ Hae
(Old Scotch) ; 3. Jock O’Hazeldean (Old Scotch) 4083

Home, Sweet Home (Payne-Bishop) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21949
Sweet and Low (Tennyson-Barnby) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 21949
Old Folks at Home (Foster) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21950
Dixie (Emmett) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 21950

Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes (Old English) 22081
Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms
(Old Irish) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22081

1. All Through the Night (Old Welsh) ; 2. Love’s

Old Sweet Song (Molloy) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22082
1. Annie Laurie (Old Scotch) ; 2. Auld Lang Syne

(Old Scotch) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22082

378 MUSIC IN COMMUNITY CENTERS

A Plowing Song; Dreaming; The Keeper (Eng—
lish) ; Kye Song of St. Bride (Clokey); Music in
the Air (Root) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22455

Alleluia (German) ; Tiritomba (Italian) ; Morning

Comes Early (Slovakian); A Song of Seasons
(Hungarian) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22457

Song of the Volga Boatmen; Going Through Lor-.
raine; Andulko (Slovakian) ; Rada Song (Slo-
vakian) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22456

Any of these songs is likely to set people hum-
ming if not singing it, and it is very likely to
remain in the memory for many a day, a very
enjoyable accompaniment not only to sewing but
also to other chores of housekeeping at home.
Having the words of the song or songs on the
blackboard will add to the urge to sing and a
mimeographed copy of them for each mother
would be likely to find its way to her home, there
to do likewise—perhaps for her family as well as
for herself.

It would be very foolish to try to introduce
music into every activity or meeting. That is not
the intention. There were quiet games of cards
and checkers in that center, and saws, hammers
and planes kept ears and minds full in the shop.
But it is equally foolish to neglect or misuse
opportunities to bring music into what are natural
settings for it.

In many community centers a special “commun-
ity night” is held once a month or every two
months, in some once a week, when the whole eve-
ning is given to some 'kind or kinds of activity or
exhibition which everyone at the center can par-
ticipate in or observe. Music almost always has
some part in such a program, and sometimes occu-
pies all of it. Harvest, Christmas, Spring and
Folk festivals and other celebrations also offer
fortunate opportunities for singing and playing.

At this point is should be emphatically repeated
that musical groups from the public and private
schools and music schools of the neighborhood
should now and then be given opportunity to take
part in community center affairs. Such a relation-
ship to the schools is especially suited to the many
community centers that are in school buildings.

Music for Boys

Encouragement for musical endeavors with boys
may be found in the great success of boys’ glee
clubs in an increasing number of schools. For
instance, in Minneapolis, there are Junior High
school boys’ glee clubs that meet voluntarily three
times a week during clu-b periods when there are
meetings of many other kinds of clubs that any
boy might enter. The principal of a school in
which there are seventy boys in a glee club said

that there could be three more such clubs if there
were teachers enough. Those seventy boys sing
four-part music admirably and are able to read
such music at sight with remarkable skill. This
ability to “play the game” well is, of course, an
important factor, but the process of acquiring
ability, if carried on effectively, without waste of
time or effort is also interesting. In Seattle there
is an extra-curricular Junior High school glee

club of ninety boys who come regularly at
7 :45 A. M. for their rehearsals.

Choral Groups

In the Y. W. C. A. in Washington, D. C., there
has been a Madrigal Club of eighteen men and
women whose weekly rehearsal from 8 to 9 o’clock
is always followed by a social hour. In respect to
the social hour, this is similar to the large Cin-
cinnati chorus of young men and women, which
is also exemplary of what might be done in a
community center. During Music \Veek in San
Francisco last year three leaders of working girls’
choruses combined them in a single concert. In
Baltimore fourteen women’s clubs with about 600
members and ten girls’ clubs with a membership
of about 200, all of them community center groups,
came together at the recreation pier for a song
contest in which each club presented a song and
tableau and was judged for its singing.

A festival combining the community center
choral groups of a city, or a quota from each
group, could be a fine, stimulating project; all the
better if it could combine orchestral groups in
the same way for the same event. In the \Vash-
ington Y. W. C. A. a glee club was formed of a
quota from each of several clurbs meeting in the
building. This suggests the possibility of an All-
Community Center Chorus similarly formed.

An all-city or an all-neighborhood choir of boys
alone, girls alone, or one of boys and girls to-
gether, formed of the most faithful and capable
singers, could be most easily attained in the
schools—and this has been done in a number of
cities. But if adequate leadership and cooperation
with the school music teachers could be gained for
it, having it outside of the schools would be even
more likely to integrate it in the life of the com-
munity and in the real, lasting life of the boy
or girl, especially if it could grow genuinely out
of the entirely self—propulsive living in one or
more community centers.

Such a choir might be formed only for special
occasions, including visits to the city by distin-
guished persons. It might have only three or four

MUSIC IN COMMUNITY CENTERS 379

rehearsals before each occasion, using worthy
music made familiar perhaps in the schools. It
might be led by the school music supervisor. A
seiect choir of unchanged voices—boys or girls of
eleven to about fourteen years of age—would
be the easiest to gather and train, but a choir
including also good tenor and bass voices of boys
would have even greater social and personal value.

Playing

From the toy orchestra or rhythm band to the
symphony orchestra there is no kind of instru-
mental group that cannot be found in some com-
munity center or settlement. The municipal and
school centers of
Long Beach, Cali-
fornia, shelter
two _ boys’ bands,
several harmonica
bands enlisting to-
gether about 500
children, ukulele
groups of a simi-
lar number, a band
of 40 old troupers
—all of them vet-
erans of profes—
sional circus or
troupers’ bands—
a Civic Orchestra
of men and wom-
en and a Woman’s
Symphony Or-
chestra of 50, all
sponsored and
supported by the
Playground and Recreation Commission of the
city, which does likewise for two large choruses
and for weekly community sings at which there
is always a brief concert also. A recent program
given jointly by the Long Beach Civic Chorus
and the Woman’s Symphony Orchestra is im-
pressive for its content—Handel’s M essiah—and
for its list of eight instead of four soloists, three
of whom are members of the chorus.

The social centers of Milwaukee have an un-
surpassed example of community playing by
orchestras to which any player is admissible with-
out try-out. The meaning of these orchestras
cannot be better stated than it was in an editorial
by Mr. Richard S. Davis for a June, 1930, issue
of the Milwaukee Journal.

“Herewith is ammunition that seems to the
writer to be the best possible corrective for the

musically despondent. It has to do with the work
done by the extension department of the Mil-
waukee public schools, a work abegun this last'
season in the various social centers of the city.

“The other night a program was given in the
Lapham Park social center by the orchestras of
the Grant Street, Dover Street, Clarke Street,
Third Street and Fourth Street centers and the
glee club of the Thirty-seventh Street center. The
smallest orchestra had 17 members, the biggest 35.
In all 129 instrumental musicians were assembled
and the united glee club had 145 singers.

“Now the writer was not there to hear the
program, but a far more competent witness and

 

Music enters into many of the activities of
the Cedar Rapids, Iowa, social center program.

listener has come in to tell all about it. She has
reported, this witness, that the evening was one
of the most encouraging experiences of her musi-
cal life, which has been eager and active. She has
told of the radiance of the players and singers
as they paid their devoted respects to Bizet, Weber
and Mozart. She has made a picture of it, a pic-
ture revealing the expansion of souls, not less
than that.

“At least one man has been convinced that no
better work for music is being done in the town.
The peOple making up the orchestras, you under-
stand, are not the people who go to all the con-
certs and idly listen to expensive music. They
cannot afford it. Most of them can afford very
little in the way of entertainment. But they have
the spirit and the devotion to make music of their
own, now that the opportunity is provided.

380 MUSIC IN COMMUNITY CENTERS

“Many nationalities are represented in the
various social center groups and the ages range
from lively youth to grave maturity. In one
orchestra there are four members of one family
doing noble service to winds and strings. In an-
other a father plays the comet while his daughter
manages the cello. In still another the father is
one of the leading fiddlers while his son concen-
trates on the bassoon.

“The glee club is made up largely of women
who are getting along in years. They are women
who know all the intricacies of keeping house
from mop to masher and back again. But they
want to sing and sing they will. They have
divided into groups that meet once a week in one
home or another, for the sole purpose of keeping
in vocal trim. If that is not genuine, you are
asked what is.

“Each one of the orchestras and the glee club
has a competent director. For each there is train-
ing. And for each undoubtedly there is the
immense satisfaction of steady progress in musi-
cal ability and musical appreciation.

“Much is said about ‘good music’ and the tone
of the talk is frequently so unctuous that inde-
pendent folk are driven into scoffing. But to the
musicians who gather to play in the social centers
good music is good music, with no slightest trace
of buncombe about it. All of which is most
refreshing.”

Of course, the possibility of having an all-city
Community Center Orchestra for a special occa-
sion is no less attractive than an all-city chorus.

Chamber Music

The small group needing, if anything, only
coaching now and then, is especially well suited
to community centers. In every city there are lone
players who would like to find one another at such
a place and play together for the love of it, espe-
cially if some coaching (the coach usually playing
a part himself), and a supply of music suited to
their abilities were available. Once gathered, they
would willingly together purchase more music and
even perhaps contribute to the cost of the coach-
ing. But there have been good volunteer coaches,
and some public libraries have suitable music for
free circulation. A Chamber Music Society in
which groups perform for one another and some-
times together and have time also for sociability,
can be a rich source of pleasure and more. '

Listening

Informal music hours have been very success-
fully held on Sundays at hve o’clock in the Wash-

ington (D. C.) Y. W. C. A. Each series of hours
has been enriched in meaning through being uni-
fied by a single subject. For instance, in October
the series was confined to Native Music, in No-
vember to What Men Live By—Work, Play,
Love and W orsh-ip, and in December to Christmas
carols. At each concert the music secretary intro-
duced the artist of the afternoon, who gave a
brief explanatory talk about each composition or
section of the program. The attendance increased
from 18 for the first concert to 125 for the con-
certs of the third month.

Such informal periods of listening offer oppor-
tunity for all kinds of worthy groups of amateur
singers and players to have the incentive and sat-
isfaction of giving a concert, and in these days
there is many a soloist amateur or a budding pro-
fessional accomplished enough to give pleasure
to everyone concerned.

In some centers notices of concerts anywhere
in the city are posted and tickets distributed for
those that are free or for which some free seats
are available. The Community Center Depart-
ment of Washington, D. C., directs a Community
Institute which brings to the city a service of
excellent concerts, lectures and other events, two
each month from November to March, that cost
the subscriber only 30 cents each.

Two Further Suggestions

That “nothing succeeds like success” is espe-
cially true of musical endeavors. In every field
of music, among amateurs as among professionals,
there may be found top-notch groups whose
achievements and resulting prestige have been a
great stimulus to other groups and individuals.
There are millions of people engaging in singing
and playing and having a fairly good time at it,
but one has only to hear a group like the Czecho-
slovakian children led 'by Ba'kule who were in this
country a few years ago, to realize how much
more vital and joyous a thing music can be than it
is as it comes from most choruses, orchestras,
and the like. If the community center ofiicials
could find anywhere in the city a person who
would be likely to induce children or grown-ups
to sing or play in this vital way, let them engage
him even if only for one group. For those who
hear this group will say, “Why can’t we sing
(or play) like that ?” or “\Vhy can’t our com-
munity center have music like that?” and half
the battle will be already won.

The other suggestion is that there be effort to

(Continued on page 408)

Recreational Dramatics

in the Community Center

RAMA has an impor-
D tant part to play in the

community center pro-
gram, and in increasing num-
bers clubs are being organized
whose main interest is the giv-
ing of plays and the carrying
on of a continuous program
of dramatic activities. At
some time or other, however,
every club or informal social group, though it
may not be organized as a drama club, feels the
urge to give a play.

As rehearsals must often be restricted to club
meetings, such an undertaking is apt to appear too
difficult and to go by the boards simply for lack
of time. The result is a growing demand from
clubs everywhere for a short play which can be
rehearsed and produced the same evening. Since
talent is seldom lacking in any group and the
desire to express oneself through acting is alive
in nearly every person, short plays which can be
performed with a minimum of time and effort
have become increasingly popular. The very short
play meets a twofold need—to offer purely rec-
reational entertainment and to be a guide to the
drama director in discovering and placing talent.
It is therefore a valuable aid in the community
center program.

In both business and social clubs, drama finds
a place on the program. After the formal busi-
ness meeting the short play provides a few min-
utes of entertainment and pleasant relaxation be—
fore the close of the evening. Members of social
clubs pause in their dancing and games to enjoy
the quiet fun of seeing their friends in the im—
promptu dramatic stunt. If the stunts are being
used for the first time, urge others to try the same
play, or a new play, at the next meeting. Memv

to the Stunts.

In 1929 the Community Drama Serv-
ice of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation prepared Six Dramatic Stunts
for impromptu entertainment. The
success of these stunts and the demand
for more material have resulted in the
publication of Six More Dramatic
Stunts. The material
has been taken from t e introduction

bers of a family might take a
stunt and prepare it at home,
working out their own costum-
ing and setting. Perhaps
someone will want to rewrite
the stunt, incorporating an
idea of his own which will
improve it, or it may suggest
an entirely new play. It is
astonishing how many differ-
ent ideas may be worked out in these little dr'a-
matic stunts and what an incentive they may be
to play writing. Frequently recognized drama so-
cieties as well as writers have come from the
gradual development of talent and leadership dis-
covered through these simple entertainments.

As a means of determining ability the short
play is invaluable to the inexperienced director.
In casting it has often happened that persons who
seem most talented at the first reading prove
mediocre, while slower, heavier types develop in
time into excellent actors. Since the success of
amateur plays practically depends on fitting the
actor into the part best suited to him, it is of the
greatest importance to the director to discover
in what direction the ability of each person lies.
To determine this, it is suggested that stunts be
used for two or three evenings before casting for
the long play. This method is a safeguard which
may possibly save the young drama society from
early abandonment and assist it through the first
perilous months until it is a solid organization.

resented here

Production suggestions

As the great-grandfather of the dramatic stunt
is the Charade, a form of entertainment which
has practically disappeared in this country but still
a delightful feature of informal gatherings in
England, the costume box, always in readiness for

381

382 RECREATIONAL DRAMATICS

an evening of charades, will become equally im-
portant in producing the stunt.

For the first evening, the hostess or club leader
may gather together such costumes and proper-
ties as are necessary for the stunts which she
has selected. Pantomime will take care of many
details. A gradual accumulation of screens, old
hats, long skirts, shawls, toy telephones, a cane,
an old umbrella, a suitcase and an endless number
of discarded objects will eventually enrich the
costume and property boxes and add color to the
impromptu performances.

The easiest and best way to prepare the stunts
is the standard method of production conducted
on a small scale. The leader should have a copy
of the stunt for each actor. The cast is assem-
bled in another room and the play read to them.
as it is always an'advantage to amateurs to hear
a play as a whole before going to work on it.
The leader has planned the business beforehand
and after the reading she sets the stage and goes
through the stunt with the cast. No attempt
should be made to memorize the lines when the
play is to be given the same evening. The lines
should be read so that all the time and attention
of the cast may be given to acting. The entire
preparation will not take more than fifteen or
twenty minutes after which the cast may be left
alone to decide how to make the best use of the
costumes provided, while the leader takes another
group and repeats this same method of prepara-
tion with a different play. It is thus possible to
rehearse four stunts in an hour and have them
ready for the entertainment later in the evening.

The leader may make a short announcement
before each stunt is presented, introducing the
cast and giving a brief description of the scene.
This is especially helpful when properties are few
and an appeal must be made to the imagination of
the audience. A number of stunts used as a
miniature drama tournament have proved an ex-
cellent way of introducing this form of enter-
tainment. This was done at a convention with
a group of people unfamiliar with the dramatic
stunt. Judges were selected and a cup, cut from
cardboard and covered with silver paper, was
awarded the winning cast. The little tournament
was so successful that the competitive method of
presentation is recommended.

Bibliography of Stunt Material

S isr M ore Dramatic Stunts. National Recreation
Association. $.35.

Acting Charades by Laura E. Richards. Fifty-
four different charades with an additional list
of one hundred and fifty words. The \Valter
H. Baker Company, 41 Winter Street, Boston,
Massachusetts. 75c.

“Kit” 11—St-unt Number—A loose leaf book of
stunts to which others may be added. Write
for catalog of other inexpensive collections.

Church Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.
30c.

Six Rehearsal-less Entertainments—A collection
of entertainments for amateur talent, including
singers, dancers, speakers, pianists, etc. Eld-

ridge Entertainment House, Franklin, Ohio.
40c.

Snappy Stunts for Social Gatherings by Mar-
garet Bridge. Clever suggestions for large or
small gatherings. Eldridge Entertainment
House. 75c.

Stunts for Fun and Fancy by Elizabeth Hines
Hanley. Ten dramatic stunts arranged for

camps, clubs, schools and playgrounds. Samuel
French, 25 West 45th Street, New York City.
50c.

Successful Stunts edited by Katherine Ferris
Rohrbough. A variety of old and new stunts
for every occasion. Doubleday, Doran and

Company, Garden City, N. Y. $1.50.

Stunt Night Tonight by Catherine Atkinson Mil-
ler. A large collection of stunts for camps

and club meetings. Doubleday, Doran and
Company. $1.50.

Three-Minute Plays by Percival Wilde. Twenty-
one splendid little plays. One part of this book
is extremely SOphisticated and is recommended

only for groups desiring material of this type.
Greenburg, Publisher, Inc., 160 Fifth Avenue,
New York City. $2.00.

Revues—A book of short sketches edited by Ken-
yon Nicholson. Many of these are excellent
sophisticated stunts best suited to such occasions

as smokers. D. .Appleton and Company, 35
West 32nd Street, New York City. $1.50.

Vaudeville I’VI-iat-Nots A selection of new
vaudeville material for the club, lodge, school,
home, or professional entertainer. Banner
Play Bureau, Inc., 111 Ellis Street, San Fran-
cisco, California. 60c.

 

Impromptu Entertainments by Don Sheridan. 8
entertainments for mixed casts. The Dramatic
(Continued on page 408)

The Spooks' Trysting Place

A Hallowe'en Parjy

H O S T S
G and skele-
tons have

always been pres-
ent at_Hallowe’en
parties but usu-
ally they are ac-
corded only sec-
0 n d h o n o r s .
\Vitches, with
their clairvoyant
powers, have told
pasts, presents
and futures, and
have dominated
the party generally. This year the witches have
been relegated to second place and spooks are to
entertain, or 'better still, to scare the hearts out
of those bold enough to venture out on Hallowe’en.

The following invitation announces a party at
“Spooks’ Trysting Place”:

If you can grin when dry ‘bones clank.

And laugh when goblins play their pranks.

If you can venture near a den

\Vhere specters torture fearful men,

Then you are brave enough to face

The horrors of “SPOOKS’ TRYSTING
PLACE.”
So come to see the phantoms white,

\Vhich haunt my house on Hallowe’en night.
Place . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Time - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Password “I fear no man,

I fear no spook.

Come on, you ghost,
Let’s have a look.”

When the fateful evening arrives and the
guests knock on
t h e d o o r , a
v o i c e f r o m

 

Courtesy Dennison Manufacturing Co.

SEND for New Hallowe'en Bulletin

within demands
the password. As
soon as the guest
says, “Let’s have
a look,” the door
opens and a giant
g h o s t appears
which, much to
the consternation
of the visitor,
dwindles in size
after the door is
opened. The giant
is made by fasten-
ing a ghost’s head
on the end of a broom and tying a sheet around it
at the neck. The entire device is held up by a girl
or boy inside who holds the broom by the handle
and raises and lowers it at will.

The Inescapable Chamber of Horrors

Before the guest has recovered from his sur-
prise, two skeleton assistants grab him, blindfold
him, and push him quickly into the much feared
and inevitable Chamber of Horrors. This is a
narrow passageway decorated with corn stalks
from which protrude stuffed stocking legs and
arms, hands made from cast-off gloves, a ghost’s
face under which a small electric bulb Flashes on
and off constantly, and other weird hair-raisers.
Hidden behind the corn stalks are spooks who
taunt the guests as they go by. One rubs a sharp
piece of ice across their faces as the ghost guides
shout, “Watch out, you’re burnt.” Others unex-
pectedly turn on the vacuum cleaner, an alarm
clock, or an electric fan to which has been attached
paper streamers with wet cotton balls on the ends.
0 n t h e floor
under a carpet
is a section of

383

384 THE SPO'OKS’ TRYSTING PLACE

an old spring over which the blindfolded guest
must walk. On the fioor, too, are cushions, old
rubber automobile horns and various other noise-
making devices. A large upholstered chair is
placed at the end of the passageway so that the
guests must struggle to reach the room in which
are waiting the hapless guests who preceded them.
When they finally
reach it, they find
themselves in “Spooks’
Trysting Place,”
which, needless to ex—
plain, is a large room
transformed into a
graveyard. The ceil-
ing and walls are
draped in gray gauze
or cheese cloth. Cut
out bats and owls
suspended from invis—
ible wires brush the

cheeks of the unsus-
pecting guests. Lights are covered with black tin

cans from which both lids have been removed and
on which are painted white skulls and cross bones.
The bottoms of the cans are covered with dull
green gelatin which casts an eerie light over the
room, and which reveals, in the distant corners,
graves padded with paper or cotton and covered
with green cambric and headstones of white card-
board, on which are inscribed appropriate epi-
taphs. In the distance a bell tolls dismally. It is a
cow bell attached to a faucet and is kept ringing
by water splashing over it. In each corner of the
room stands a leering ghost made from a clothes
tree draped with sheets. Under the masks electric
bulbs fiash on and off at regular intervals.

 

Courtesy Dennison Ca.

When the guests reach this room, they are
given ten “teeth of dead men” (kernels of corn)
and are told by the receiving spook that they are
to try to guess the identity of each guest there
and of each new guest as he arrives. Anyone
whose identity is discovered must give a “tooth”
to the person who guesses correctly. \Vhen all
invited are present, the “teeth” are counted. The
two having the highest number are dubbed Honor
Spooks, and are given cardboard skull and cross
bones as prizes. Those without any “teeth” are
required by the chief spook to pay some such
penalty as the following:

Hoot like an owl.

Act like a woman chased by a spook.
Imitate a classic dancer.

Play a slide trombone.

Imitate a beginner writing a letter on the
typewriter.

Hallowe’en Games

The guests are now ready for action so the
following games are played:

Catching Skulls. Cardboard cut-outs of skulls
are scattered on the floor in the center of the
room. There should be one less skull than the
number of people who play the game. A lively
march is played' during which everyone dances
around. Suddenly the music stops and each per-
son tries to catch a skull. The one who fails to
get one must sit in the center. As the circle is
formed again one skull is taken away and the
rest placed on the fioor. This continues until all
the guests are sitting in the center of the floor
and no skulls remain.

Cat Tails. Before the guests arrive, a red and a
black cat without tails are cut from cardboard.
They are mounted on white cardboard allowing
sufficient space for a twenty-inch tail. The tails
are now cut from cardboard and then cut up
into pieces about an inch long. These pieces are
hidden around the room before the party starts.
\Vhen the time comes to play the game the guests
separate into two groups, the black cat tail hunters
and the red cat tail hunters, each with a captain.
The hunt now begins for pieces of the cats’ tails.
Each piece found must be brought to the captain
who pastes it on the cat. The side completing the
longest tail in a given time wins. Menibers of
the red team finding pieces of the black tail
may tear them up and

vice versa.

Ghosts Guess. Make

about a dozen bags of
thin white paper and

place a different object \\

in each one. Select ,
things that have as great- a “'7
1y differing and distinct CUT-OUT N9H634
outlines as possible. Pin comm” 00"”;50" C0“

the bags on a line stretched across the room or in a
doorway so that there is a strong light behind
them. Put out all the other lights in the room and
give five or ten minutes in which to guess what
the ghosts are. The bags must not be touched,
the shadows giving the only clues. “Ghosts” of
even well known articles are harder to guess than
one would imagine. Turn the lights on and write
lists of the articles. Two “ghost” handkerchiefs,

one to a boy and the other to a girl ghost, may
be awarded the winners.

     

THE SPO'OKS’ TRYSTING PLACE

Lucky Test. Draw three concentric circles on
the floor. The outside one is marked “Lucky,” the
middle one “Luckier” and the inner one “Luck—
iest.” Each guest stands at a certain line and is
allowed three throws with a rope quoit at the
circles. If it lands in
any one of the circles,
it decides the throw-
er’s luck for that year.
If none of the circles
are touched the
thrower remains a
“luckless wight.”

Feeding the Spooks.
Dress milk bottles to
represent spooks by
covering them with
white crepe paper and
fastening a ghost’s
head on the top so that the mouth {its exactly
over the opening in the milk bottle. These spooks
are now placed at regular intervals at the front
of the room. The group is divided into teams
and lined up into single file opposite a “spook.”
Each person in line is given three beans. At a
signal from the leader, the first person in each
line runs up to the spook and from shoulder
height tries to drop beans into its mouth. As soon
as he has dr0pped his beans he runs back, touches
off the second in line and takes his place at the
end of the file. This is repeated until each person
in every team has had a chance to run. The team
that succeeds in dropping most beans in the
spook’s mouth wins the game.

 

CUT-OUT N? H 654-;

Courtesy Dennison Co.

Gravestone Relay. The gravestones which are
used for decorative effects can also be utilized as
game equipment. They should be placed in such
a way that there are at least four in two straight
lines. The group is divided into two teams which
line up in single file opposite the headstones.
Players jump over the four headstones, run back
to place and then tag the next one in line, who re—
peats the procedure. The
team whose last runner re-
turns to the starting point
first wins the game. If the
gravestones are not used,
clothes trees dressed as
Spooks will be appropriate.
These should be put at the
head of each line and the
players required to run
around them before returning
to place. '

ll’ '

w 1"“ l .Ziili'l
f  «(Ell llIljlllllllmiimr

       
 

Hill

llll

til '1

u."

Courtesy Dennison Manufacturing Co.

“mullmmmmmmmmmm

385

Roll the Bones. Paint several dumb-bells white.
This is another relay game and should be played

in exactly the same formation as the preceding
game. In this one each player rolls the bones
with a stick about three feet long. They are rolled
to a given point and back again where the second
player takes the stick and continues the game.

Hallozve’en Superstitions. Have your guests
write all the superstitions that they know. For
instance, walking under a ladder is a sign of bad
luck; picking up a pin found lying on the floor
will bring good luck. At least two peOple must
have heard of the omen to make it count. A
small stuffed black cat would be an apprOpriate
prize to the writer of the longest list.

At the End of the Evening

Refreshments consisting of sandwiches, apples,
doughnuts and cider are now served. After re-
freshments all the lights are turned out and each
guest is given a lighted candle. From a bowl of
nuts (English walnuts) passed around, each guest
takes one which he cracks while the hostess re—
peats in a solemn tone: “Hold above the candle
what you find within. Careful not to scorch it—
that would be a sin.” Inside the walnut is a
tightly rolled bit of paper on which a fortune from
Spookland is written in lemon juice. The Mes—
sage remains invisible until the paper is heated
Over one of the candles. An inexpensive book
of fortunes entitled Hallow’een Happenings may
be secured from Walter H. Baker Co., Boston.

And now comes a blood curdling feature:

A ghost seats himself on the floor in the center
of the room and commands the guests to sit around
him. He begins to tell a very weird spook story.
At a dramatic moment another ghost appears and
spirits away one of the guests who screams pierc-
ingly. A minute later a light is Hashed on in one
corner of the room and the head of the victim is
seen. To make the effect gruesome, a sheet is
hung from a horizontal rod
several feet from the floor
and the bottom is tacked to
the Hoor to make it taut. - The
victim protrudes his head
through a slit in the sheet.
A strip of red flannel is
fastened around his throat
to cover the place where the
neck touches the sheet.
Splashes of carmine or red

(Continued on page 408)

l
91

I


A Kickball League

for Senior Women

By Elsie Eriey

Assistant Supervisor, Department of Recreation, Detroit, Michigan

of Recreation is making a Special

drive in its program for married
women, and not the least important of its
activities is the Senior VVomen’s Kick-
ball League consisting of twenty-two
teams divided into three divisions—
North, East and West. The League is
primarily a spring league which closes
about the First of July when many of
the mothers leave the city with their
families.

The Department of Recreation has
adapted the old game of kickball to play-
ground baseball, the result being a game
which the women enjoy because it is
something like baseball but easier to play.
.All the women can kick the ball, whereas
it is difficult for many of them to do the
batting required in baseball. It is also
much easier to catch the kickball and the
women are not afraid of hurting their
fingers.

The use of the same diamond required
for playground ball with the addition of
a few lines makes it unnecessary to lay out another
diamond. With the same pitcher’s boxes and
bases there is no confusion and a better diamond
is the result as there are no additional holes worn
in the ground. The home plate is the same as in
playground ball and the base runner must touch
this plate. Pitching lines have been added between
which the pitcher must roll the ball. Experiments
showed that with the pitcher’s box 35 feet from
home it was too difEcult to roll the ball over the
12-inch home plate. The new area was made 28

386

THE Detroit, Michigan, Department

 

+

What activities can we plan for older women?
Recreation leaders eagerly seek the answer.

inches wide—the distance between the batter’s
boxes for playground baseball.

The kicker is given from the 10 foot line to
the 3 foot line to run up on the ball. This gives
her ample room to run, yet limits her to a certain
section. The ball must be kicked over the 8 foot
line. A ball which does not roll over this line is a
foul ball and with the new rules the first two
fouls are strikes. This does away with the bunt-
ing rule which would be rather difiicult to deter-
mine in kickball.

A KICKBALL LEAGUE 387

Rules for Playground Kickball

Rule I. Diamond

The diamond is a square with each side 45 feet
in length.

Pitcher’s box is 35 feet from home.

Pitcher’s plate is a board 6 by 24 inches.

Foul line is 8 feet from home. (This is meas-
ured from home toward the pitcher’s box and is
a straight line drawn across the diamond between
hrst and third base lines.)

Serving line is 3 feet from home. (Measured
as above.)

Pitching lines: 28 inches in width on 3 foot
line (i.e., 14 inches measured each way from cen—
ter of 3 foot line.)

Lines are then extended at right angles from
3 foot line to hrst and third base lines.

Kick’er’s area is between the 3 foot line and
the 10 foot line.

15 inch bases are in each corner. 12 inch base
at home.

Rule II. Equipment
Out-seam basketball

Rule III. Teams, Players and Substitutes

Section 1. Ten players on each side. Positions
same as baseball. None required to occupy an
exact position on held except pitcher, who must
stand with his feet touching the pitcher’s plate

when in the act of delivering the ball to the
kicker.

Section 2. Not less than seven players shall
occupy the held in any inning of a game.

Section 3. Substitute may enter game at any
time except when ball is in play. Player whom
he succeeds shall not thereafter participate in that
game.

Rule IV. The Game

Section 1. A game shall consist of seven in—
nings.

Section 2. Four or more innings shall consti-
tute a game if called for darkness or rain.

Section 3. The choice of innings shall be de-
cided by the toss of a coin.

Rule V. Forfeiture
A forfeited game shall be

favor of the team not at
fault in the following cases:

1. If a team fails to ap-
pear upon the held or hav-

Another activity for the older women of
Detroit is the Recreational Choral Soci-
declared by the umpire in ety, a group composed of women from

all parts of the city, most of them house- out
wives. The society, which meets weekly,
has appeared at several community
events. In May it made its radio debut
in a thirty minute program of folk songs.

ing seven players upon the held refuses to begin
the game within hve minutes after the umpire has
called play.

2. If a team fails to have at least seven players
on the held hfteen minutes after the scheduled
time.

Rule VI. Pitching Rules

The pitcher must come to a stand with both
feet on the plate, facing the kicker, then may step
forward 'with' one foot, keeping the other foot
in constant contact with the plate until after
delivering the ball. The 'ball must be pitched
underhanded and rolled on the ground.

Rule VII. Black Ball

Section 1. A block ball is a batted or thrown
ball that is stopped or handled by any person not
engaged in the game, or touches any obstruction.

Section 2. Base runners may advance one base.

Rule VIII. Fair Ball

A fair kick is a legally kicked ball that settles
on, or is handled by or touches a helder within the
foul lines beyond the eight foot line.

Rule IX. Foul Kick.

A foul kick is a legally kicked ball that settles
on foul territory between home and hrst or home
and third, or is handled [by a player when on or
over foul territory. (Balls which are not kicked
beyond the 8 foot line are foul balls.)

Rule X. Kicking Order

After the hrst inning the hrst kicker in each
inning shall be the kicker whose name follows that
of the last person who completed his time at kick-
ing in the preceding inning.

Rule XI. Strikes 0r Kicks

A strike is recorded when:

1. A pitched ball is kicked at and missed.

2. He kicks a foul not caught on the hy unless
two strikes have been previously called. (First
two fouls shall be strikes.)

3. A legally pitched ball passes between the

pitching lines and is not
kicked at.

Rule XII. When Kicker Is

1. If he kicks out of turn
unless error is discovered in
time for regular kicker to

388 A KICKBALL LEAGUE

take his position. _

2. If he makes a foul or fair kick and the
ball is held by a fielder before the ball touches
the ground.

3. If in the act of kicking, the kicker steps
over the 3 foot line.

4. After three strikes have been called on the
kicker.

Rule XIII. When Kicker Becomes Base Runner

1. Instantly after fair kick.
2. After four balls have been called by umpire.

Rule XIV. Entitled to Bases

Base runner may advance one base:

1. If while kicker, he becomes base runner on
four balls.

2. On an overthrow of first, third or home.

3. If occupying a base and a succeeding kicker
is given four balls, thereby forcing him off that
base.

Rule XV. When Base Runner Is Out

1. If he kicks a fair or foul fiy which a fielder
catches before it touches the ground.

2. If after a fair kick he is touched with the
ball by a fielder before he touches first base.

3. If after a fair kick, the ball is held by a
fielder touching first base before he can reach
such base.

4. If in running to"or 'between bases he runs
out from a direct line between such bases to avoid
being touched with the ball in the hands of an
opponent. (No fielder may block the base line
except with the ball in his hands.)

5. If when the ball is in play he is at any time
touched with the ball in the hands of a fielder,
unless he is touching the base he is entitled to.

6. If in case a fair or foul fly be caught by a
fielder and the ball be returned to the base the
runner occupied before said runner can return
to that 'base, provided he started too soon.

7. If any base runner be hit by a fair kicked
ball before such is touched by a fielder.

8. If he intentionally kicks or interferes with
the ball he has just kicked. If a ball he has just
kicked rebounds and hits him in fair territory,
he shall be declared out. (In foul territory it
shall be called a foul.)

9. A base runner leaving his base while the
pitcher, standing in his box, holds the ball, or
before it has reached or passed pitching area shall
be called out.

Rule XVI. Return to Bases

The base runner shall return to his base with-
out liability to be put out: '

1. If the umpire declares any foul not legally
caught.

2. After illegally pitched ball.

3. After dead ball unless it be also the fourth
ball and he is forced to take next base.

Rule XVII. When Runs Are Scored

A run shall be scored only on a kick or a play.
No run shall be scored on a throw back. A throw
to any fielder other than the pitcher is not con-
sidered a throwback.

A runner on third cannot score on any pitched
ball which passes the catcher. A runner on third
may score on a fair or foul fly ball after it is
caught, or on a play upon any other base runner.

The League

Eligibility

This League is primarily for married women.
All special cases as to eligibility will be decided
by the Kickball Committee.

A player may play on one team only.

All teams must be coached by women. Coaches
and practice fields will be assigned free of charge
by the Department of Recreation.

Registration

The registration of every player is necessary;
every player must sign her own card. Not more
than 15 players will be allowed on each team.
(This includes the manager and captain.)

Registration cards will be furnished by the
Department of Recreation and must be filed in
the office on or before May lst. Players joining
teams after May lst must file cards in the ofiice
twenty-four hours before playing in a scheduled
game.

Each manager on releasing a player must do
so in writing. This release must be given to Miss
Erley before the released player will be permitted
to sign with another team. No player will be
permitted to sign up with any team after half the
scheduled games have been played.

An entrance fee of $3.00 will be charged per
team. This is used to buy trophies.

Schedule

Teams will play once through the schedule.
Games will not 'be postponed except for rain.
Fifteen minutes is allowed before forfeiting.
Any team forfeiting two games in succession
will be suspended from the League.
(Continued on page 409)

Athletic Programs for Young Men

By W. Duncan Russell

General Director, Community Service of Boston, Inc.

UCCESSFUL promotion of competitive
S programs for young men between the ages
of eighteen and twenty has been the key to
successful organization of their younger brothers
and neighbors and sometimes their sons, and for
this reason we have emphasized it in our work in
Boston. Most street corner groups have a younger
following who do as they do, and if the older boys
have participated in our programs the younger
boys have followed in quick succession. Further-
more, this age group seems to react less than any
other to programs common to the more established
social agency.

Activities. Response of young men of this type
we have found mainly to be through major sport
competitions—baseball, basketball, football and
hockey. Independently arranged games in these
sports between rival street corner groups are sel-
dom satisfactory to them for obvious reasons;
team managers rarely give their right age and
standing in seeking games through newspaper
notices or by telephone, and the officials they
choose are generally of the home team variety with
home team interests. On the other hand, an
organized, a supervised schedule, if promoted with
extreme regard for system and fairness, brings a
quick and extensive response from independent
teams. I have always been told that organized
football could not be carried on successfully with
this group, but we have found a much more satis-
factory response from teams in this sport than in
any other. Because our football season has come
so close upon our strenuous summer program
we have never been able to make it as extensive
as baseball or basketball, but before the season
was half over this year we were besieged by teams
who had not entered our leagues begging for an
opportunity to play with teams with whom they
had never played a satisfactory game or never had
been able to meet at all, in order to play under
conditions we could offer, viz., neutral officials,

neutral playing fields, protection of their games
from the crowd.

Organization. I believe recreation systems must
come to realize that to make these programs reach
this group they must employ someone who is not
strictly a playground director, but who is an
organizer and visits these young men at their
“hang-outs,” their club rooms, their street corners.

.It has been a high—powered salesmanship job to

enlist 290 teams in Boston summer baseball, and
no one will realize what an extensive canvassing
job it was to bring them in. It has been a help to
organization in some instances to bring together
a local committee in the different sports, made up
of older men whose past sport records or prestige
gave us an entree to the teams in their district;
they are valuable also in checking team registra-
tions and assisting in the strict enforcement of
rules. But the most important point in our organ—
ization of these older boys has been, I believe, in
meeting them on their own footing.

Organizing personnel. We have been extremely
fortunate in our work with these young men in
Boston, to have an organizer who has knowledge
of street corner group psychology (having gone
through the mill himself Because of his back-
ground he has been able to achieve results little
short of phenomenal. His telephone conversation,
his personal interviews, concede everything to the
team manager with whom he is talking but
actually relinquish nothing. He meets them on
their own ground, and has become so firmly
established that there are few teams in any sport
in the city who do not know just exactly where
they stand with him. He holds the teams up to the
highest standards of play and his decisions at
critical times have weathered the strictest tests. A
league director and two organizers can handle this
end of the work, but the right choice of these
workers is very important.

Administration of the leagues. A re-registration
of the teams in each sport in which they partici-
pate checks their rosters and makes possible en-
forcement of rigid registration requirements. The

(Continued on page 409)

389

National Recreation Day

By Weaver W. Pangburn

National Recreation Association

val of the playground children of Allentown,

Pennsylvania, had come to a close. Suddenly
the six thousand children formed into position
and spelled the words, “Hoover’s Message,” each
playground forming a letter. Then, in the pres-
ence of fifteen thousand
spectators, including cit y
officials and other promi-
nent citizens who were
guests of General and
Mrs. Henry C. Trexler,
founders of the festival,
the President’s message
was read to the children.

Commenting on the ’0‘-
message under the title,
“At His Best,” the Boston
Post said among other
things: “No President of
whom we have any mem-
ory could have said just
that in just that way. It
proves that Mr. Hoover has a big heart and that
the recreation idea is not alone cherished by him
as a personal thing, but that he knows its value
to the country in every way. As a friend of chil—
dren he has won his place in our national life, and
it is very high.”

Called “national recreation day,” “Hoover play-
ground day,” or “playground day,” August 14
was given over to the celebration of the silver
anniversary of the National Recreation Associa-
tion in 476 cities in every section of the United
States. Pageants, athletic and swimming con-
tests, play days, musical programs, plays, exhibits
of handcrafts, playground circuses, parades, for—
mal exercises, ceremonies awarding honors and

390

THE eighteenth annual play and dance festi-

counhy.

To the Boys and Girls of America

Two and a half million of you are playing to-
day in the pla grounds of nearly a thousand
cities. Your e ders rejoice with you in your
Fun and Freckles, your spOrts and games and
all that goes into making you happy and
healthy boys and girls. Your zest in life is a
precious possession and your laughter makes a
ous chorus throughout the land.
housands oi devoted men and women under
the leadership of the National Recreation
Association have labored For a
century to provide the playgrounds which you
enjoy. We rejoice with you and with them in
this boon to the boyhood and girlhood of our

prizes, and dances, interpreted or depicted the
work of public recreation. Accompanied by copi-
ous newspaper publicity, the occasion drew the
attention of millions of men and women to the
achievements of public playgrounds for American
childhood. \Vhile sponsored principally by munici-
pal recreation agencies,
celebrations were in some
communities conducted in
whole or in part by Lions,
Kiwanis, or Rotary Clubs,
the American Legion, Par-
ent-Teacher Associations,
Chambers of Commerce,
and other civic organiza-
tions.

Numerous public om-
cials joined President
Hoover in greeting the
children and praising the
work of the public play-
grounds. Governor Par—
nell of Arkansas sent the
following message: “To the Boys and Girls of
Arkansas: On the twenty-fifth anniversary of the
National Recreation Association, the people of
Arkansas are glad that their boys and girls are
enjoying the playgrounds, swimming pools, ath-
letic fields, and beaches throughout the state. Civic
leaders and school authorities are realizing more
every day that in the changing living conditions in
our country, recreation is very important. On this
day I am glad to call the attention of the people of
Arkansas to the sports and games and all activi-
ties that will tend to make boys and girls healthier
and happier.”

Governor Spaulding of New Hampshire gave
the prizes awarded winners in the sports program

quarter of a

Herbert Hoover

NATIONAL RECREATION DAY 391

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Parkersburg, W. Va.

Observances of many kinds marked
the twenty-fifth birthday of the
National Recreation Association.

conducted in Rochester, N. H. Mayors McMurray
of Altoona, Pa.; Jackson of Baltimore; Brown of
Concord, N. H.; Snively of Duluth, Minn.;
Kitchel of Englewood, N. J.; Monteith of Hous-
ton, Texas; Frankson of Hibbing, Minn.; Metz—
ger of Lancaster, Pa.; Pollock of Leonia, N. J.;
Fisher (acting) of Little Rock, Arkansas; McLinn
of New Albany, Indiana, and Hart of Wilkes—
Barre, Pa., among others participated in the local
celebrations.

Programs Impressive

There is Space here to mention only a few of
the celebrations, some of them unique, others
typical of what took place in many cities. In
Baltimore a bOy and a girl from each playground
in the care of their leaders from the Playground
Athletic League and wearing paper caps and
badges bearing the names of their playgrounds,
marched to the city hall, singing their playground
songs. Each child carried gas tilled balloons of
red, white and blue. The mayor greeted them on
the steps of the municipal building while a band
played, “Baltimore, Our Baltimore.” To each

child the mayor gave a package of cards 'bearing
the President’s message to be distributed to their

playmates on the playgrounds. Then, the balloons
were released, tagged with the inscription: “This

balloon was released from city hall, Baltimore,

Maryland, on the presentation of President
Hoover’s message to the playground children.
\Vill the finder notify the P. A. L., 7 Mulberry
Street, stating when and where found?”

In Hammond, Indiana, four thousand boys and
girls participated in the following activities:
woodcraft and sewing exhibits, running and nov-
elty races, swimming contests, life-saving exhibi-
tions, checkers, Iball throw, high jump, broad
jump, horseshoe and model airplane contests.
Harvest day ceremonies observed the anniversary
in Washington, D. C., and in several Virginia
cities. In Evansville, Indiana, ten thousand spec-
tators witnessed the separate programs of each
playground. The activities drew many persons
who had not previously visited the playgrounds.

On each playground in Norwalk, Connecticut,
the children exhibited model playgrounds and doll
houses which they had made in preparation for
the anniversary. Members of the Recreation
Commission judged the work for originality, fur-
nishing, and neatness. An annual story-telling
festival was initiated and the history of the Na—
tional Recreation Association was reviewed. Two
features of the celebration in Dallas were the
playing of the LaSalle violin orchestra and a pro-
gram of one-act plays 'by children under twelve.
The children of the municipal playgrounds of
Cleveland staged their seventh foreign “tour,”
through the medium of folk stories, dances, and

392 NATIONAL RECREATION DAY

singing games. Czecho-Slovakia was the theme.
Fifty thousand children received the President’s
cards.

At the playgrounds of Glens Falls, New York,
awards were made the children for sporting
events, national standard efficiency tests, good
housekeeping, and the best neighborhood coopera-
tion exhibited. Charles Gelman, chairman of the
recreation commission, presided, and Miss Ruth
Sherburne, supervisor of recreation, spoke of the
history of the local playgrounds, the establishment
of the National Recreation Association, and the
part that the Presidents of the United States from
Roosevelt on had played in sponsoring the
movement.

Although the Kansas City, Missouri, play-
grounds were for the second season unopened, a
special committee headed by George Tinker, for-
mer playground director, arranged swimming and
play programs in honor of the anniversary.
Y. M. C. A., Settlements, and Boy and Girl Scout
leaders cooperated. The Rotary Club sponsored
the program in Mangum and Greer Counties,
Oklahoma. Playground children of Columbia,
South Carolina, in connection with their program
lighted a huge birthday cake with twenty-five
candles. The four playgrounds of Fairhaven,
Massachusetts, joined the celebration with an
annual vehicle parade of scooters, bicycles, tri-
cycles, and carts, many beautifully decorated, a
parade of horribles, and competitive sports.

To the recreation director in Troy, New York,
came the following invitation, printed on a double
folder of black paper with a border of sealing
wax:

ANNIVERSARY GREETINGS

We take this time to thank you

For all that you have done

In making us so happy,

In letting us have fun.

And so we join in sending our appreciation, too,
From every heart in Warren Park,

Anniversary greetings to you.

This message was from the most poorly
equipped playground in the city. It is evidence
that the children had caught the spirit of the
occasion. In Middletown, Connecticut, the recre-
ation superintendent observed the children look-
ing Skyward early in the afternoon of the four-
teenth of August. They were much excited. A
rumor had spread that President Hoover was
to come in person by airplane to read a message
to the Middletown playground children.

Celebration Highly Educative

Undoubtedly the greatest value of national
recreation day, held with few exceptions simul-
taneously in hundreds of cities, was the education
of the public in the extent and value of public play-
ground programs, and in the part played in the
recreation movement by the national association.
In Los Angeles, Tarrytown, New York, Wilkes-
Barre and other cities, the programs were planned
primarily to inform the parents concerning the
playground activities in which their children were
engaged, and special effort was made to bring
them to the playgrounds. In Los Angeles the day
was the beginning of a two-weeks’ program of
this educational character. Of course, wherever
children were taking part in programs, many of
the parents were present. In New Albany, Indi-
ana, a tour of the playgrounds was made by the
mayor, city councilmen, members of the school
and the recreation boards.

In scores of cities lengthy newspaper accounts
reviewed the history of the local playgrounds and
their popularity. A number of them, for example,
Morristown, New Jersey, outlined existing needs
for the improvement and further development of
the playgrounds. The occasion inspired a number
of mayors to declare themselves on the extension
of playground facilities, as well as to interpret
the community service of the program.

In Wheeling, West Virginia, two evenings were
given to public addresses by educators and city
officials. In two cities where the playgrounds were
closed (because of “lack of funds”), the Presi-
dent’s message was nevertheless distributed, and
there was extensive newspaper publicity centering
attention on the unfortunate fact of the closed
playgrounds.

The contributions of the organized playground
to health, character growth, and safety were fre-
quently emphasized. “If public ofiicials and pub-
lic-spirited citizens continue to make the progress
in the next twenty-five years in the field of public
recreation that they have made in the past, many
problems now confronting city governments, such
as juvenile delinquency, will be solved in a large
measure,” stated Walter S. Schmidt, president of
the recreation commission of Covington, Ky.

One of the directors of the Bridgeton, New
Jersey, playground association declared that in all
the seventeen years the local playgrounds had
been open, only one serious accident had taken
place on the grounds. The value of leadership
was also frequently pointed out.

(Continued on page 410)

Fall Forest Activities

for

Recreation Leaders 9

HEN is play in
Wthe open more
thrilling than on
a bright fall day when

s-l"

By Marie F. Heisley

Forest Service, U. S. Department of
Agriculture

painted leaves are dancing in golden sunlight
under what are perhaps the bluest skies of the
year, and when the air is redolent of the harvest?
Week—ends at camp or in the country, picnics,

rides, hikes and other of the sum-
mer outings are still the order of
the day, but are enhanced by the
gorgeousness of the fall sym—
phony, which is all the more faso
cinating because it is only of
short duration and the bleak days
of winter are just ahead. It is
no wonder, then, that we lose no
opportunity to slip away from
our daily tasks and revel in the
glory of the great outdoors.

Nutting Parties

The autumn woods, in addi-
tion to their beauty, afford many
other delights. Not the least of
these is the large variety of edi-
bles highly prized by woods con-
noisseurs that forest trees sup-
ply. First in importance come
the native nuts, beechnuts, but-
ternuts, chestnuts and chinqua-
pins, hazelnuts, several kinds of
hickory nuts, including pecans,
and walnuts. All of these are
highly nutritious and toothsome,
and are favorites with old as well
as young. All except the chest—
nut are still fairly abundant.
The crop of chestnuts is being

Wt“: .'

Photo by U.  For

reduced each year by the
chestnut blight, or bark dis-
ease, which is gradually
killing out the tree.
Nutting parties have been popular fall outings
for many generations of Americans. Although
today the nutting party is possibly more p0pular
in rural communities where the woods are close

When the first frost sharpens the air only a good
vigorous tramp will satisfy the lover of nature

 

est Service

393

394 FALL FOREST ACTIVITIES

at hand than in larger towns and cities, many of
us still roam the woods in the fall in search of
forest “goodies.” And our efforts are apt to be
rewarded, although the nut trees are becoming
scarcer as urban development progresses. But
even though our harvest may be small, our hunt
for the hidden treasures of the woods has
afforded a delightful day spent in the open.
Whether we are one of a party or alone in our
search, however, it is always well to remember
to take care that we do not trespass on private

land, or destroy property,

and the leaves are burned, the most valuable fer-
tilizing elements are changed by the heat into
gases and escape into the air. As a result, for-
csts which are burned-over regularly.soon lose
their soil fertility even if no apparent damage
is done to the standing timber.

Look for signs of Fire in the woods. \Vhat
have fires done to the forest floor? Have they
made any apparent changes in the soil? Have
they damaged the large trees to any extent?
\Vhat have they done to the young growth? How

do the burned-over parts of

and to be an all around Bending above the SPiCY W°°d5 WhiCh blue, the woods compare with

good Sportsman.

Of the other edible fruits
of forest trees, perhaps the
best-known is the persim-
mon, which is edible only
after it is thoroughly ripe.
As this is usually not until
late in the fall, it is com-
monly thought that the hence
fruit must be frost-bitten
before it is fit to eat. Some
fruits of forest trees which
ripen in the fall are wild
crab apples, mulberries, and the fruit of the
hackberry, or sugar berry, as it is called in the
south. Many people also like the fruit of the
shad bush, “sarvice harry,” or June berry, as it
has been variously named.

Thoughts for Tramps in the Autumn Woods

When you go on a tramp in the woods notice
the ground cover, or forest floor, as the forester
calls it. On the top you will find a layer of this
year’s leaves and under it the dried leaves of last
year. Farther down are succeeding layers of de-
cayed and decaying leaves of preceding years until
the leaf litter merges with the soil. It is this de-
composition of the leaves which enriches the top
layers of the forest soil. Although the food which
has been prepared in the cell cavities of the leaves
is sent back to the tree, the mineral substances
with which the walls of the cells have become
impregnated during the summer are retained.
Therefore, when the leaves fall they contain rela-
tively large amounts of valuable elements, such
as nitrogen and phosphorus, which were origin-
ally part of the soil. \Vith the decay of the leaves,
these elements are returned to the soil. This is

why the black mellow earth from the forest floor
is so fertile.

If fires are allowed to run through the forest

The spell, by sunset door, wrapped in a veil
Of red and purple mists, the summer pale,
Steals back alone for one more sop-ti; and dance.

—Helen

Arch skies so blue they flash, and hold the sun those from which fire has
lmmeasurably far,- the waters run

Too slow, so freighted are the river-ways

With gold of elms and birches from the maze
Of forests. Chestnuts, clicking one and one,
Escape from satin burrs; her fringes done,

The gentian spreads them out in sunny days,
And, like late revelers at dawn the chance

Of one sweet, mad last hour, all things assail, p .
And conquering, iiush and spin,- while, to en- d1‘€SS€S- T1118 may be ac-

kept out?
Colored Leaf Prints

How about making a col-
lection of autumn leaves in
their different fancy

complished by making col-
ored leaf prints in the fol-
lowing manner: 1. Mix oil
paints of the colors of the
leaf you want to print.
2. Paint the under side of the leaf to exactly match
the upper side. Work quickly so that the first
colors will not dry before the last ones are put on.
3. Place leaf, painted side down, on a sheet of
white paper with another sheet on top. 4. Holding
leaf immovable, rub it hard with roller or fingers.
\Vhen the upper sheet of paper and the leaf are re-
moved, there will remain a copy of the form and
colors of the original leaf. Black and white leaf
prints can be made by using ink instead of paint.
These, of course, will not be as beautiful as those
made in colors. A scrap book of leaf prints with
the names and descriptions of the parent trees will
make an interesting volume for any boy or girl to
own. Colored leaf prints would also make an
attractive addition to a community center exhibit.

Many people suppose that Jack Frost is respon-
sible for the leaves changing color, but he is not.
The change is really a preparation for winter.
All during the summer months the leaves serve
as factories where the foods necessary for the
trees’ growth have been manufactured. This
food making takes place in numberless tiny cells
of the leaf and is carried on by small green bodies
which give the leaf its color. These chlorophyll
bodies, as they are called, together with heat and
light from the sun, make the food of the tree by
combining carbon taken from the carbonic acid

unt Jackson

FALL FOREST ACTIVITIES 395

gas of the air with hydrogen, oxygen and various
minerals supplied by the water which the roots
gather. In the fall when the cool weather causes
a slowing down of the vital processes, the work of
the leaves comes to an end. The machinery of
the leaf factory is dismantled, so to speak, the
chlorophyll is broken up into the various sub-
stances of which it is composed, and whatever
food there is on hand is sent to the body of the
tree to be stored up for use in the spring. All
that remains in the cell cavities of the leaf is a
watery substance in which a few oil globules and
crystals, and a small number of yellow, strongly
refractive bodies, can be seen. These give the
leaves the yellow coloring so familiar in the
autumnal foliage.

It often happens that there is more sugar in the
leaf than can readily be transferred back to the
tree. When this is the case, the chemical com—
bination with the other substances produces many
colored tints varying from the brilliant red of
the dogwood to the more austere red-browns of
the oaks. In coniferous trees which do not lose
their foliage in the fall, the green coloring matter
takes on a slightly brownish tinge, which gives
way to the lighter color in the spring.

Community Photograph Contests

Almost everyone who nowadays seeks recrea-
tion in the open carries a camera, with the re-
sult that in most communities at the end of the
summer are large numbers of recreation photo-
graphs of varying degrees of merit. Since most
amateur photographers are proud of their pic-
tures and usually eager to show them, a com-
munity photograph contest would probably hnd
a general response. The pic-
tures entered in such a contest

Forest Fires and Their Effects Upon Recrea—
tion

Game and Wild Animals

Winter Activities in the Woods

Photographs could be submitted individually
or in groups, and arranged in classes and prizes
given for the best of each class. The details of
the contest would, of course, have to be worked
out by the community center. An exhibit of the
best photographs received in the contest would
also have a rather wide appeal.

Fall Arbor Day Celebrations

Some few of the states, especially those in
whcih the fall season is best for tree planting,
celebrate Arbor Day in the fall. Still others have
both spring and fall Arbor Days. Whether in
spring or fall, Arbor Day always affords oppor-
tunity for special playground or community activi-
ties such as forest plays or pageants, tree plant-
ings and forest sings. Below is given a list of the
states which celebrate Arbor Day in the fall. If
your' state is one of these, why not put on a
special Arbor Day program this fall?
Georgia-—First Friday in December.
Hawaii—In November, before the winter rains;

by proclamation of the Governor.
Illinois—Observes two days; April and October;

proclamation of the Governor.
Kentucky—In the fall; by proclamation of the

Governor.

Mississippi—December or February; law author-
izes State Board of Education to fix date.
Pennsylvania—In the spring, by proclamation of
the Governor, and in the fall by authorization
of Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Philippine I 5 la n d 8 —Usually

might be those showing the
various phases of forest rec-
reation or forest study car-
ried on by recreational groups.
The following is a suggested

list of the subjects that might
be covered:

Tree Studies

Forest Studies
Tree Plantings
Nutting Parties

Camps
Camp Fire Stories or
Meetings

Nature Trails and Hikes
Camp Fire Building

THE RED ENEMY
A. H. Sylvester

Forests;

And streams;

Think of the first,

The others come to mind.
Take forests away,

The others disappear.

The greatest enemy of them all

Is that first enemy of the Arch Fiend,

Who runs without feet,
Who strikes without hands,
Who eats without mouth,
Who takes without giving,
Who leaps and strikes,
Devouring as he goes,

The Red Enemy,

Fire.

(From "Forest Fire and Other Verse"

by John D. Guthrie)

late in September or early in
October, by proclamation of
Governor.

Porto Rico — Last Friday in
November.

South Carolina—Third Friday
in November.

Fall Tree Planting

Arbor Day, of course, means
tree planting, and if the play-
ground or any other section of
the community needs trees,
furnishes an excellent oppor-
tunity for planting them. Al-
though it may seem that spring
is the logical time for tree

.590 FALL FOREST ACTIVITIES

 

. I
-’i ‘-' v _ s.
_‘ ll . I

Photo by U. 5. Forest Service

planting, in many locali-
ties it may also be done
successfully in the fall.
This is true in a general
way of the eastern third
of this country from Chicago eastward, except
Michigan, Vermont, New Hammhire, Maine, and
northern New York, and the eastern half of the
southern United States as far west as Texas, ex-
cept the semi-tropical portions of Florida. Fall
planting should 'be done after the summer growth
slows down and before the ground becomes frozen.

The trees to be planted should be of some
species natural to the locality. In deciding what
kinds to plant, however, it would be well to get
the advice of the city parks department or shade
tree commission or your State Forester. Infor—
mation as to where and how to obtain trees for
planting may also be obtained from these sources.

\Vhen planting trees, do not thrust them into a
rough soil at random and expect them to flour-
ish. They should be set out in well-worked soil,
well enriched. And their roots should not be
allowed to dry out. Evergreens, in particular,
which are always planted with a base of earth
about the roots, are very easily killed by allow-
ing the roots to become dry. Before planting, the
ends of all broken or mutilated roots should be
cut off. Broadleaf trees should be pruned to a
few main branches which in turn should be short-
ened. Evergreens should not be pruned.

There is nothing
more enjoyable than
a hike through the
woods on a brisk day
in early fall.

Dig the holes about 3 feet in diameter and 2
feet deep. If the soil is poor, the holes should be
4 feet in diameter. The sides should be perpen-
dicular and the bottom fiat. Break up the soil in
the bottom to the depth of the spade, and spread
over it 12 or 15 inches of good t0psoil, free from
sods or other undecomposed vegetable matter.
On the top of this layer spread out the roots of
the tree with none of them in a cramped position
and cover them with 2 or 3 inches of fine t0psoil.
Firm the soil about the roots, water lightly, and
after the water soaks in fill the hole with good
earth, continuing to Firm it, but leaving the sur-
face loose and a little higher than the surface of
the surrounding soil.

It is well to bear in mind that responsibility for
the tree does not end with the planting, for the
care of planted trees until they are well-estab-
lished, is as important as the planting operation
itself. Shade and ornamental trees should be
watered frequently, and in places where there is
danger of their being injured such as on play-
grounds, should be properly equipped with a
guard and stake. If we neglect the trees we
plant, the fruits of our labor are apt to be thrown
away, while well-cared for trees will be a source
of pride and inspiration to the whole community.
And not only the community but the nation will
benefit from the planting and proper care of trees,
for in view of the diminishing crop of timber they
are a great national necessity.

Recreation

on the

Canadian National

Railways

By Sir Henry W. Thornton,
K.B.E.

comprising probably the largest 'body of men

and women, organized for recreation and
sports purposes in the Dominion of Canada,
draws its membership from nearly one hundred
thousand men and women, employees of the
Canadian National Railways in Canada, the Grand
Trunk Western Lines and Central Vermont Lines
in the United States. Its activities cover the
entire field of sports. Football, baseball, track
and field sports, rifie shooting, bowling, golf and
tennis are among the outdoor sports in which its
members participate. In addition there are indoor
activities — games, social gatherings, musical
events and a host of other affairs which are en-
couraged during the time when outdoor sports
are confined to those which may be followed on
snow and ice-covered surfaces. Nearly one hun-
dred associations, brought together in the Cana—
dian National Recreation League, are active dur—
ing the entire twelve months of the year, in locali—
ties ranging from Halifax on the Atlantic Coast
to Vancouver and Prince Rupert at the Pacific,
and from Chicago, south of the International

Boundary to The Pas—up where the North
begins.

THE Canadian National Recreation League,

sh

 

The head of this great transportation
system is no theorist in recreation!

Recent years have brought about a new con-
sideration of recreation in industry. With the
introduction of shorter working hours, the em—
ployee is given more time to play, and employers
the world over have recognized that opportunities
for healthful play and recreation are of equal
importance with sanitary and healthful working
conditions.

Thus, unsightly areas in the neighborhood of
railroad yards and shops have been turned into
playing fields, largely by the efforts of the em-
ployees themselves, encouraged to make use of
the land for the purpose of recreation. Esprit de
corps and a sense of co-Operating with one’s
fellow-workers are built up on the recreation fields
perhaps better in many instances than elsewhere.
The spirit of the game demands team-work, and
it is team-work that permits the welding of men
and women into an efficient organization, whether
for play or in the business world.

Canada is a young country, its population com-
paratively sparse and far-flung, and as yet com-
posed of peOple who have not, in the main,

397

398 RECREATION ON THE CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS

reached that stage of affluence where they can
enjoy lengthy periods of leisure for recreation
purposes. The average Canadian has been brought
up to work hard, and when he plays, he plays as
hard as he works. This perhaps eXplains the high
standing which has been gained by individual
Canadians in the fields of international sport.

Serving this great Dominion is the Canadian
National Railways System, with some 23,000 miles
of line. In many cases these lines are at the very
edge of the wilderness. Railway employees fre-
quently comprise the entire population of the
communities in which they live, for in the opera-
tion of a railway system such as the Canadian
National, divisional points must be laid out with
regard to the problems of operating the railway.
The town grows around the railway station shops
or other activities, and consequently it becomes
necessary on occasion for the railway company to
consider not only the working conditions of its
employees but also the living conditions and the
improvement of such recreational and social
activities as may exist.

It is in its service to the residents of these
“outposts of railway service" rather than to the
residents of populous cities that the recreational
efforts of the Canadian National Railways have
been a 'boon. Baseball, football and hockey teams,
wearing the railway’s colors in a metropolis such
as Montreal, are important in their development
of a certain spirit among the railway employees as
a whole, but much more important are the activi—
ties encouraged among the residents of some fron—
tier railroad divisional point, where almost every-
thing and everyone depends upon the railway. At
these points social life and play are encouraged
by the association with good results. The Super—
intendent at Edson, Alberta—a railway divisional
point in the foothills of the Canadian Rockies—
expressed the thought of the distant “railway
town” and its inhabitants when he stated in a
letter that “until the League became active, posi-
tively no social life of real value existed. The
activities of the League have entirely changed the
outlook of the people.”

The Canadian National Recreation League was
brought into being in October, 1927, at a time
when there were fifteen associations entirely sepa-
rate from each other on the Railway System. In
about three years the associations had grown to
ninety-seven, and were united in their enterprise
through a central directing and guiding office
located at Headquarters in charge of a director of
recreation. In this recreational movement across

a continent and sponsored by an industry, it was
important that paternalistic methods should not
be adopted, but at the same time it was necessary
to encourage and control the play desires of nearly
one hundred thousand employees. The best proof
that the methods adopted were successful has been
the enormous increase, due almost entirely to the
efforts of the employees themselves. This has been
most noticeable in the smaller isolated communi-
ties. At many points along what is termed the
north line of the Canadian National Railways
there now exists social and play life where previ-
ously time hung very heavily on the hands of the
few people who lived at these places.

The railway serves three classes of communi-
ties:

1. Where the community practically gets its
entire livelihood from. the railways.

2. Where the railway employees form a large
proportion of the population.

3. Where their numbers are negligible in
larger cities.

In view of the fact that the railway employees
are the entire community in the smaller places,
it falls upon them not alone to provide the neces-
sary government, but also to provide desirable
community life. It is at such places that the Cana-
dian National Recreation League has been able
to encourage social life and play for both young
and old with surprisingly good results. There is
not a single point where the ninety-seven asso-
ciations forming the League cannot show some
benelit to the railway employees themselves and
to the communities in which they exist. Not only
in athletics, but also in other recreational features
——music, the arts and others—has the League
taken a hand. There are in existence today under
the auspices of the Canadian National Recreation
League six brass bands, seven concert or sym-
phony orchestras, three fully equipped pipe bands,
one choral society and six minstrel troupes. \Vhile
the performances of some of these musical aggre-
gations have been outstanding, their greatest
value has been their contribution to community
life.

Another contribution which the Canadian Na-
tional Recreation League has made has been that
of rendering assistance and furthering the work
of the national sports bodies and such others as
deal with what might be expressed as higher
athletics. The League is the only industrial unit
in the world to 'be empowered to issue amateur
registration cards. This is an excellent example of
the esteem in which the League is held.

“You Can Make It"—

A Happy Slogan

Unlimited possibilities for
developing talent are to
be found in a “You Can
Make It” Contest.

s'onal greetings to “You Can Make It” con—

test winners of three states who called at
the White House, Wednesday, April 8. The three
youths whose excellency in wood handicraft work
resulted in their winning free trips to the national
capital include Thorleif Knudtzen of Carroll play-
ground, Oak Park, Illinois; Wilfred Schurink 0f
the Mobile, Alabama, playgrounds, and George
Easter of Jacksonville, Florida.

The “You Can .Make It” contests were spon-
sored by newspapers, playground associations and
other organizations c00perating with the National
Committee on Wood Utilization of the Depart—
ment of Commerce in its campaign to bring about
an intelligent utilization of both new and dis—
carded lumber.

To win the contests in their respective districts,
the lads displayed unusual ability in wood crafts-
manship. At Oak Park, young Thorleif con—
structed a “Karrosse,” or a miniature carriage,
entirely hand carved and containing only one piece
of metal, a small pin fastening the front wheels
to the carriage.

A neatly designed jardiniere and a pedestal of
many colored woods were the prize winning en—
tries of 12-year—old Wilfred Schurink of Mobile.
The jardiniere, and its stand, rising approximately
three feet from its fioor base, is outstanding in
that it is constructed of miscellaneous bits of wood
and beautifully finished in a dozen different colors.
The article was constructed out of whittled pieces
of discarded crates.

Interest in the Florida contest was so great that
an Air Transport Company issued a complimen-
tary round trip ticket to Mr. Easter to assure him
of the trip to Washington. Young Easter ex-

PRESIDENT HOOVER extended his per—

 

C'ourtesy the American City

Prize winners in the Louisville “You Can
Make It” Contest, typical of young Americans
everywhere working with the Government

hibited marked ability in the construction of a
speed boat which he made from second-hand pack—
ing boxes and crates. The boat, 16 feet long,
necessitated an expenditure of only $1.30. It is
driven by an outboard motor and is capable of
making a speed of 22 miles per hour.

Commenting on the “You Can Make It” contest
staged in Oak Park, Illinois, Miss Josephine
Blackstock, Director, Playground Board, says:
“We feel that the contest was so successful last
summer that we will put on another one on the
playgrounds this coming summer.” After stag-
ing two “You Can Make It” contests on Mobile,
Alabama, playgrounds, Mrs. Carl A. Klinge,
Superintendent, Recreation Department, advises
that she is as enthusiastic as ever about the con-
tests which will be repeated next year.

Many of the contestants obtained ideas and
plans for their entries from the series of “You
Can Make It” booklets published by the Commit—
tee. These booklets entitled “You Can Make It,”
Volume I, and “You Can Make It For Camp
and Cottage” contain plans for constructing hun-
dreds of.useful articles for both the home and
cottage. They may be obtained from the Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C., at 10
cents a copy. “You Can Make It For Camp and
Cottage,” which sells at the rate of $3.50 a hun—
dred copies, contains valuable information con—
cerning bird house construction and location which

(Cotinued on page 410)
399

RECREATION

The World at Play is published each month to keep you in
touch with new developments everywhere. It is a coopera-
tive undertaking. "Recreation" urges all its readers to send in
items regarding recreational happenings in their communities.

 

World at Play

 

In Detroit, Michi-
gan, the Department of
Recreation has organ-
ized table game clubs
in which boys are encouraged to make table
games, such as baseball games, football games,
peg solitaire, fox and geese, bean bag boards, puz-
zle games, ring toss and pool boards. In many
centers there are no gymnasiums, but available
floor space for carrying on table game clubs. Such
games as checkers, Lindy, Flag, authors, touring,
pit, snap, boy scout, Halma, anagrams and \Ving
are supplied by the Department. When a boy be-
comes a good checker player he is invited to be-
come a member of a chess club, a number of which
are conducted from October until May. Elimina-
tion tournaments are held and the best players of
each club compete for the championship of the city.

Table Games and
Chess Clubs

 

A Harvest Festival
of Many Lands was
the name given the
festival presented on
July 3lst under the auspices of the Milwaukee
Public Schools, Extension Department, with the
cooperation of the foreign born groups of Mil-
waukee at the Siefert Social Center Playground.
Introduced by a procession of nations, folk danc-
ing and singing by a number of foreign born
groups made up the greater part of the program.
In the final number, entitled United All, more
than twenty nationalities were represented by indi-
viduals who were former or present members of
some Milwaukee social center English or citizen-
ship class.

400

A
Harvest Festival

 

 

In March and April
a number of recreation
departments and
5 ch 0 o l boards com-
pleted their community center season with demon-
strations. The first public demonstration of eve-
ning recreation activities of Somerville, Massa-
chusetts, was held on March 23rd under the aus-
pices of the Recreation Commission. Folk danc-
ing, basketball, calisthenics, tumbling, music, both
instrumental and vocal, social games, tap dancing,
a one-act play and a minstrel show completed the
program.

The sixth annual community center frolic of
Cleveland, Ohio, brought to a close the activities
of the community centers conducted by the Board
of Education. Sponsors of the frolic included
the Inter-Community Center Council, which
works with the Board of Education in administer-
ing the centers, and the Cleveland Plain Dealer.
The queen of the frolic, escorted to her throne by
heralds, presided over the program in which ac-
tivities of all kinds were demonstrated.

Community Center
Demonstrations

 

 

City officials of Mil-
waukee, \Visconsin, be-
lieve it is due to the
influence of the recrea-
tion programs conducted by the Extension De-
partment of the Public Schools that Milwaukee’s
rate on burglar insurance is lower than that in
cities generally, that the city is freer from crime
than it formerly was, there is less labor trouble
and the juvenile delinquency rate has been
reduced.

Play and
Delinquency

WORLD AT PLAY 401.

 

Recreation for
“Oldsters”

Members of the Bor_-
rowed Time Club of
Oak Park, Illinois, rang-
ing in age from seventy
to one hundred years,
are finding opportunity
for social recreation
through the monster out—
door checker-board con-
structed in the center of
the village through the
cooperation of Gustav
A. Lindberg, superinten—
dent of the Oak Park _
district. -

The checkers proper. -
are made of' basswood (:9
approximately 12 inches
in diameter and 4 inches thick. These discs are
lifted with a specially designed hook attached to
a sawed off golf club, the checkers being hollowed
out at the center and a steel pin inserted across
the opening. The discs are moved slowly and the
play does not require too much vigor. It is
planned to place concrete seats around the check—
er-board which is located on the sloping ground
so that the game may be easily watched by a num-
ber of fans. From the interest shown in this out-
door checker game the village Park Board feels
that the small investment required is well repaid
by the enthusiasm and enjoyment of the elderly
men who play.

 

On January 21'st the
niversity 'of Omaha,
Nebraska, became the
Municipal University
of Omaha. In the reorganization which followed
the Department of Sociology and Social Work
was made one of the eight leading departments
of the institution, with Dr. T. Earl Sullenger,
head of the new department. Dr. Sullenger will
also direct local research projects and serve as
director of the Bureau of Social Research.
Arrangements have been made whereby all stu-
dents enrolled in child welfare and interested in
playground work may secure an additional credit
for two hours’ work on the demonstration play-
ground. Special lectures will be given by local and
national authorities on recreation.

Leadership Training U
in Omaha

 

Courtesy of The American City

   
 

The Public Schools
Athletic L e a g, u e of
New York announces
that at 12:45 P. M.
each Saturday from October 3lst to April 23rd
there will be broadcast a summary of the Win-
gate Memorial Athletic Lectures, which will be
presented this fall and winter. The League is
also" planning to make a very inexpensive tran-
script of the full proceedings at each lecture dem-
onstration, which will be distributed at cost to all
requesting it.

A Broadcast of
Athletic Lectures

The use of school
buildings for recrea-
tional purposes by the
Recreation Division,
Pontiac, Michigan, has increased seven-fold since
the Board of Education allowed the Department
to use the buildings without charge. Previous to
the season of 1929-30, the Board of Education
madea charge of $7 .50 per night for the use of
gymnasiums. To meet this cost the Recreation
Division charged an admission fee of 25 cents
per person. As a result the only activity carried
on in school buildings was the City Basketball
League. The attendance at this activity in 1928‘-
29 totaled 6,840 people. .In October, 1929, the
Board of Education decided to allow the Recrea-
tion Division to use all gymnasiums without any
charge. During this season 54 organizations held
212 meetings with a total attendance of 16,340.

School Centers
in Pontiac

402 WORLD AT PLAY

 

 

 

“CHICAGO”

The "CHICAGO Line" of playground equipment includes:
Slides, see-saws, strides, ladders, and scores of other products,

all "CHICAGO" built—of better materials, sturdier construc-
tion, more careful w0rkmanship.

"CHICAGO" Equipment is slightly higher in price. but is
Wu.“ for NEW far more economical-for it 13 safer.
can,“ «Bu stronger, and more servaceable.

CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT CO.
1835 West Lake Street, CHICAGO. U. S. A.

WE SERVE THE LEADERS
WITH

TABLE TENNIS ALL OTHER GAMES

all standard TABLE-TENNIS equipment and Tables in
various sizes and thicknesses. Sturdy construction to with-

stand hard usage. Folding tables with and without legs.

TABLE-TENNIS EQUIPMENT sold in sets of various
types and individual parts at amazingly low prices. Table

covers and. containers for the above equipment. Back-
gammon. Quant Backgammon. Chess, Checker Boards. Lot-
tos,. Combination Boards, Crokinole Boards and separate
equipment, etc. Also other pOpular games.

Orders will receive ourOIpecial attention no matter how
small. Can make immediate delivery.

Descriptive price-list gladly mailed upon request.

ARTCRAFT MFG. COMPANY
24 East let Street New York

CAN YOU SELL...

We want names of commission sales-
men to put before them a grand Oppor-
tunity to sell the best piece of play
apparatus to School Boards—and this
Fall and Winter is the time to do it.

Send full particulars of your experience.
All in confidence.

Address :—Y6782
care RECREATION
315 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y.

 

 

The winter season of 1930-31 showed a 100
per cent increased over the previous year. Sixty-
nine organizations used the buildings 317 times
with a total attendance of 42,465 at the increased
number of activities. In addition to the basketball
league for men, two other basketball leagues for
men, one of which was colored, were organized.
Two basketball leagues for white girls and one
for colored were conducted. Other activities in-
clude three men’s gymnasium classes, a volley ball
league, an indoor soccer league, :1 bridge class, an
indoor tennis club and a badminton club. A com-
munity party was held once a month for colored
citizens. During the last two seasons of use of
school buildings by the Recreation Division the
only damage to property was the breaking of one
light globe in one building.

Child Study Association of America to
Hold Conference. —- Social and economic
changes; how the college is meeting them and
their effect upon man and woman in the marriage
relation; research in family life—these and other
topics will be discussed at the two day conference
to be held under the auspices of the Child Study
Association of America in New York City on Oc-
tober 19th and 20th. Further information may

be secured from the Child Study Association at
221 \Vest 57th Street, New York City.

Activities in Middle Western Cities.—
Teams from Detroit, Michigan, and cities nearby
participated during the week of August 24th to
28th in baseball, playground ball, volley ball, ten-
nis, horseshoes, track and field contests. The
recreation executives of the metropolitan district
around Detroit will get together from time to
time ‘to consider policies and rules for contests,
to discuss activities and to do better recreation
work in the cities represented. These cities are
Ann Arbor, Dearborn, Detroit, East Detroit,
Grosse Pointe, Hamtramck, Highland Park, Pon-
tiac and \Vindsor.

Lansing’s First Sport and Field Day.—
“Recreation Steadies Lansing” is the way the
Lansing State Journal headed its editorial com-
mending the first sport and field day in Lansing’s
history on July 10th. Organized by the Recrea-
tion Department and aimed to give everyone a
chance both to play themselves as well as enjoy
watching others, the program began with a parade
of about a thousand playground children shortly
after noon, followed by an industrial track meet.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

C. J. ATKINSON RETIRES 403

C. J. Atkinson Retires

T the recent convention of the Boys Club
A Federation in Washington, C. J. Atkin-

son announced his retirement from the
active management.

For nearly twenty years C. J. Atkinson as ex-
ecutive secretary of the Boys Club Federation has
worked closely and sympathetically with the
N. R. A. When Mr. Atkinson came from To-
ronto to take his position with the Federation, his
office adjoined the office of the N. R. A. in the
Metropolitan Building and the leaders of the
Association have always felt very sure of his
understanding of recreation problems and of his
readiness to help.

Under the leadership of Mr. Atkinson, the
Boys Club movement has grown from an enroll-
ment of thirty clubs with about 25,000 boys as

members until now there are 258 clubs with an
enrollment of approximately 251,000 boys.

No one could know C. J. Atkinson without
feeling that he has lived much, that he knows
many phases of life, that he is not fooled by what
appears on the surface. We have known him
always as an honest and courageous fighter for
the boys. Mr. Atkinson, after a summer in
Eur0pe, will return to the United States, where
he will continue to be affiliated with the Boys
Club Federation as honorary secretary.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

(Continued from page 402)

a golf tournament, a horseshoe pitching tourna-
ment, tennis matches and a rattling good twelve
inning ball game going on simultaneously at the
various parks in the afternoon. Early in the eve-
ning the finals in the city amateur championship
boxing matches were held, followed about dark
by a playground baseball game for girls. The
new lighting equipment on this playfield made pos-
sible the extension of the sports day until after
ten o’clock. The other evening event was moving
pictures in another section of the city. There were
no charges for any of the events. The City Hall
and leading industrial plants closed at noon. The
day had been announced by posters and liberal
newspaper articles, and the facilities at all the
events were filled to capacity. As the editorial re-
ferred to said, “Doubtless nothing the city could
do could so well serve to heighten, steady and
direct what may be termed the public morale.”

C. B. Raitt

N the death of C. B. Raitt on August 7th, the
I .recreation ,movement in America lost one of

its early and able pioneers.

On February 1, 1905, he became the first super-
intendent of play and recreatiOn of the Play—'
ground and Recreation Department Of the City
of Los Angeles, California—one of the first cities
in Americanto. establish a separate municipal de-
partment of play and recreation. During the
course of his long service of over twenty years as
superintendent he guided the development of pub-
lic play and recreation from one small center to
a system of play and recreation centers of com-
manding importance not only in his own city but
also of very great significance and importance to
the Whole public recreation movement in this
country.

He was of the stuff of which pioneers are
made—rugged, cautious, courageous, indomitable,
intelligent, painstaking and absolutely devoted and
loyal to the cause to which he gave the best
years of his life. His integrity was unimpeach-
able; his personal habits such as to set a high
example to the children and young pe0ple under
his charge. He was a public servant against
whom there was never a breath of scandal and
whose honesty was never questioned in the ad-
ministration of his high oche. He never swerved
from the path of duty as he saw it. To the end
of his public life he remained true to the principle
that a public office is a public trust to be adminis-
tered with an even stricter regard to honesty
and devotedness than in one’s private affairs.

A

Their Very Own.—In West Orange, New
Jersey, there is a playground in the heart of the
Italian district which the neighborhood people to
an unusual degree feel belongs to them. Visiting
this ground at 9 :30 one morning, the district- rep-
resentative of the N. R. A. found a group of
little girls under the direction of one girl not
much larger, scrubbing, sweeping, and vigorously
cleaning the girls’ showers and lavatories, while a
number of boys were equally active on their side
of the ground. Other children were on the ball
diamond, sweeping and marking and trimming
the grass, and still others were picking up papers
and sweeping the ground. The ground belongs
to the neighborhood and no one feels it more
keenly than the children. Winter and summer this
place is their club and center.

404

AMONG OUR FOLKS

“AThe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest—
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." “A

“Allen. you. will find
news of the latest activities
of public officials through—
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

I: II!" E,

SOUTHEIQ ~

wri—

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
‘ATLANTA, GEORGIA

Among Our Folks

Miss Katherine Krieg, who served as assistant
to Miss Margaret McKee, former superintendent
of recreation in Des Moines, Iowa, has been ap-
pointed as Miss McKee’s successor.

Jeanne Barnes, a graduate of the National
Recreation School, began work as director of
recreation at Morgantown, \Vest Virginia. This
position was formerly held by Alice Beil Van
Landingham.

More Playgrounds for Minnesota.——The
Department of Minnesota (American Legion) has
launched a state—wide drive urging every Post in
the department to arrange for places for the chil-
dren of their communities to play. It is believed
that the playground program is an activity on
which every Post in the city may well concentrate
its efforts this year.

A Vacation Bible School in Lancaster.—
In Lancaster, Pennsylvania, last summer, the Lan-
caster Recreation and Playground Association and
the St. Peter’s Reformed Church cooperated in
conducting a Vacation Bible School which held its
sessions both at the church and at one of the pub-
lic playgrounds. The school was open to all chil-
dren between the ages of four and twelve and was
conducted five days a week from 9:00 to 11:30
A. M. during the month of July. At certain
periods the children from the Bible School joined
the children at a playground which is nearby and
took part in the program.

A Memorial Playground for Springfield.—
In Springfield, Massachusetts, $58,000 has been
made available from the surplus war bonus funds
for the purpose of acquiring land for a public
play area as a permanent memorial to the soldiers,
sailors and marines who served this country in
war. A tract containing approximately 120 acres
was purchased for this amount, the low price
being made possible because of the civic pride and
interest of the owners. It was decided to build
the city’s second municipal golf course on this
area. Nathan C. Bill, who has done so much to
further the recreation movement in Springfield,
contributed $10,000 toward the construction of the
course; other interested citizens gave $11,970,
and the city government appropriated $40,000 for
the development of the tract.

During the year 1930 a tract of 10.46 acres with
a lake on it was presented to the City of Spring-

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY 405

field by Arthur E. Littlelield, May G. Stephenson,
and George L. Stephenson.

An Active Organization—The Industrial
Mutual Association of Flint, Michigan, is com-
posed of 30,000 members who are employees of
the General Motors units in Flint. The organiza-
tion provides a welfare program, an insurance
plan, and a recreation program, but recreation is
the chief interest. Six floors of club rooms, a
$1,250,000 auditorium, a 400-acre summer resort,
and an athletic stadium are among the facilities
provided. A camera club is the latest addition to
the program. The director of photography for
one of the largest automobile factories, whose
plant is located in Flint, has been secured as coun-
sellor, and some very interesting work has been
the result. In less than two weeks the member-

ship in the new club increased from twelve to
more than lifty. I

Interest in Recreation Games.—At a re-
cent meeting of the Mississippi Branch of the
National Congress of Parents and Teachers there
were 33 general subjects on the pr0gram, 15 hav-
ing to do with leisure time and recreation. In
addition there were three recreation and play
periods. This illustrates the extent to which dis-
cussions with reference to leisure and recreation

are being received at the present time throughout
the country.

Recreation Department and Juvenile Court
Work Together.—-In Dallas, Texas, a plan of
cooperation between the local recreation depart-
ment and the juvenile court is in operation. Each
month the recreation department receives a list
of juvenile court cases to which special attention
are given. It has been possible to give a great deal
of assistance in many of these instances because
frequently the delinquent is a son or daughter of
a member of one of the mothers’ clubs connected
with each playground. In such cases the mother
and the recreation leader in _charge of the play-
ground confer with the Juvenile Protective Com-
mittee composed of two or three of the neighbors
at each of the playgrounds. Boys or girls on
probation are largely in the hands of the recrea—
tion worker and the Juvenile Protective Com-
mittee who report to the court. There are a
number of interesting instances of' the lessening
of gangs and leaders of undesirable boys’ groups

to such an extent that they cease to be trouble-
makers.

 
       
    
       
   
       
        
       
     
 
   
       
       
     
   
       
       
   
   
       
      

 

Licensed under Patents of Octo-
ber 23. 1923. March 25, 1924

“Junglegym” Trade Mark Regis-
tered United States Patent omce

 

   
 

 

 

-'—dl.i'

 

 

 

 

l
,
f
.7

 

 

 

 

 

 well“:Imglliiiiiln’illiie
- i i
.l __._ _. l
31'   “‘“W”
_lll'llllltjltl’i  . 
 w ~-  .7 ' 4“
gr,-   I  ._ ‘1 _'.

 

 

f * .""‘"\I  1,3 - _. .-
-’ WW A PM
'  l' _ I Ink
2 en
t —“—— ‘ ' 1".  r 'r»'\—
l |
_ R.-. 3’ I.» ' J's ' in l]; an __r .: ,_

. , ._'l ,
._ _ ll lam _____-- ,_
null!“
ail-l"‘J-—?E’;‘3‘y‘ “IFS-lig'h-‘ghg 4".- -:‘l—  I
.e I I. ls-n  willi'
@'§:E?: _  as» _
-.   .,  .. ‘- -— _ ..' An
I] . - ll. 1.. .. i “ 'J%1}.;J¢”I .lumll

This No. 2 Junglegym capable of
handling 75 children.

HOW PLAYGROUND
PROBLEMS ARE BEING
PERMANENTLY SOLVED

WITH

JUNGLEGYM

Children are not like older persons,
They instinctively like or dislike a
thing and no amount of words can con-
vince them otheerise.

 

 

 

That is one reason why the Jungle-
gym has proven so successful in play-
grounds. It appeals to the deep-rooted
instincts of children to climb and play
in groups. They never seem to tire of
playing on it, because all sorts of games
can be discovered or made up on the in-
stant. A splendid exerciser, both phys-
ically and mentally.

But there are other features equally
as important. Having, as it does, gradu-
ated bars always near at hand it is abso-
lutely safe and requires no supervision.
Permanently made of metal and com-‘
pactly built to economize on space.

Playground Department "
Chicopee, Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

406 WORLD AT PLAY

NEW

ECONOMY

RUBICO
RED TOP DRESSING

Fast-drying — permanent — dustless
now shipped in 100 lb.
bags anywhere, for
resurfacing

TENNIS COURTS

Makes any court into a

RED CHAMPIONSHIP COURT

Rubico is the perfect surfacing—and
its low cost makes it most practical

Write NOW {or sample and
complete Information

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.
Westfield New Jersey

Specialists in the Construction of Tennis Courts.
Playgrounds and Athletic Fields.

 

A New Public Bath House for Los An-
geles.—The Playground and Recreation Com-
mission has approved preliminary designs for a
new public bath house at Cabrillo Beach, San
Pedro, which will be an attractive two-story struc-
ture giving the appearance of a Spanish light-
house. It will accommodate 4,000 bathers. The
second floor of the bath house will consist of a
large community hall for dancing and other social
activities, and there will be special sun bath rooms
for men and women, a restaurant, and similar
features.

For the Pre-School Child.—The Recreation
Department of San Antonio, -Texas, has con-
ducted some interesting work for the pre-school
child on seven playgrounds during the school
year. Leadership is provided largely by volun-
teers from the mothers’ councils, one of which
has been organized on each playground. There
is a mothers’ and children’s dramatic club at each
ground and in addition the children are taught
singing, storytelling, and certain physical activi-
ties such as correct breathing and posture. There
are contests in sand modeling but a minimum of

emphasis on regular school kindergarten work.
The recreation director at each playground is in
general charge of the work. Children from four
to six years of age are admitted and there are
about thirty children on each playground, for
whom the program is conducted from 9:15 until
noon. The program is not in operation during
the summer playground season. This work is
particularly important in Waco because so many
of the mill workers are unable to provide for their
young children while they are at work.

In Parsons, Kansas, pre-school groups use the
school playgrounds during the summer for a short
time in the morning before the older groups ar-
rive. As soon as the older children come on the
grounds, the other children return home. Kin-
dergarten teachers in the public schools have
charge of the pre-school groups.

A Tournament of Arts and Crafts—During
April, the Richmond, Virginia, Academy of Arts
and Crafts, established in 1786, conducted its first
tournament of arts and crafts. Miss Claire Mc-
Carthy, director of the Community Recreation
Association, served as secretary of the Executive
Committee of the tournament. For outstanding
achievement in the tournament the Academy con—
ferred the highest honor for attainment in Rich-
mond for the year 1931 in art, true crafts, in-
terior decoration, decorative arts, photography,
graphic arts, architecture, literature, music,
drama, and dancing.

West Chicago Parks Hold Art and Crafts
Exhibit.—More than 11,000 articles made by
the boys, girls, and adult groups in the handcraft
classes conducted by the Chicago \Vest Park
Commissioners, were on exhibit at the various
parks from May lst to May 11th inclusive.
Among the articles shown were basketry, dresses,
lamp shades, cushions, stencils, posters, bead
work, model airplanes, doll houses, soap and clay
modeling, wood carving, whittling, dolls, bird
houses; and boats.

Happenings at Oglebay Park—The fourth
Nature Training School to be held at Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, \Vest Virginia, opened on June
8th. On June 22nd the school moved to a camp
in West Virginia’s higher mountains where a
live day session was held.

The opening event of the summer’s program
at the park was the Easter sunrise services at-

tended by 1,500 people. A vested choir of 40

Please mention Recnmnox when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY 407

musicians and a brass sextet provided the music.

The state legislature has given recognition to
the Oglebay Park program by appropriating
$5,000 a year for the next two years for coopera-
tion with Oglebay Park.

Archery Popular.—-—The nine hole archery
golf course established by the Department of
Public Recreation of Miami Beach,_ Florida, at-
tracted many players every day. An archery
range provided excellent sport for those enthusi-
asts who wish to perfect their aim with the tar-
gets. Two full blooded Indians of the Penob-
scot tribe gave free classes of instruction twice a
week and equipment for these classes was fur-
nished by the Department. Private lessons were
also given and bows and arrows were rented to
those wishing to play the golf course or practise
on the target range.

With balloons as their targets, members of the
Westchester.County, New York, Archery Asso-
ciation held their first indoor tournament at the
County Center in White Plains in April. Each
time an archer broke a balloon he had the priv-
lege of drawing a prize from a grab bag. The
archers hitting the largest number of balloons
were awarded silver cups. This novel archery
shoot created much interest.

A Golf Course in a Small Community.—
Ten or fifteen years ago Allen Walden, a lumber-
man and resident of Corydon, Iowa, bequeathed
part of his estate to the town designating that
a certain share of it should be used to purchase
a park for the city. The executor of the estate
purchased a 4-0-acre tract adjoining the town
which fifty years ago had been laid out as a
park. A nine hole golf course was built on the
property which utilized practically the entire 40
acres and is located in and around the tennis
courts, keeper’s home, bathing pool, and other
recreation facilities. The course is 2,600 yards
in length, par 29, bogey 37. HEretofore the up-
keep of the park, which is under the supervision
of a park commission of three members, has been
met through an authorized 2 mill levy by taxation.
This levy has fallen short so that the town pe0ple
who play golf, about 50 in number, have agreed
among themselves to contribute $5 each per year
for the purpose of taking care of the blue grass
greens which are particularly fine. Any one may
play free of charge at any time. To raise money
for making improvements to the course, last year

TENNIS NETS

.4- also a

      

Backstop Nets

- Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

AH Sport Nets

This house has long

been headquarters

 
   
     
 

 

 

   
    

for all the above.

  
     

w. A'fg‘AUGUR

35 Fulton Street AaNew York

     
 

signs were put up requesting that individuals
playing golf and not contributing to the upkeep
of the park pay 50 cents a day. As the course
is the only golf course in the county, many peo-
ple from other towns use it and they were very
glad to contribute to the upkeep of the course.

“There has been a coordinate development of
high incomes and greater dissatisfaction with life;
of high material standards of living and higher
rates for suicide and insanity and minor forms of
mental disorders; of greater measures for the pro-
tection of mothers and children along with race
suicide in modern American cities; of finer
churches along with increasing disbelief in God or
the tenets of historical Christianity. These discori-
dances can only be explained if we admit that
urban America has passed the point of greatest
efficiency in material standards of living; that the
attention she is paying to things to live with have
made her forget the things necessary to live by.”
—Pr0fessor Carla C. Zimmemnan in Rural Amer—

ica, May, 1930.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

403 RECTREA TIONAL DRAMA TI C 5

CAN YOU SELL....

We want names of commission sales-
men to put before them a grand oppor—

tunity to sell the best piece of play
apparatus to School Boards—and this

Fall and W' inter is the time to do it.

Send full particulars of your eXperience.
All in confidence.

Address :—Y6782
care RECREATION
315 Fourth Ave, New York, N. Y.

 

Official
Pitching Shoes

For professionals—4:mateurs—old
or young—indoors or out, there’s a
Diamond Shoe to suit any condi-
tion. Also stakes—carrying cases—
rule books, percentage charts and
score pads. Every one who enjoys
healthful recreation will enjoy
horseshoe pitching.

D I A M O N D
CALK HORSESHOE co.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.

 

KENDALL

COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Formerly Chicago Normal School of Pbysical Education

Be a director of Physical Education. playground supervisor. dancing teacher,
or swimming instructor. Two-year diploma and three-year B.P.E. course:
tor young women high school graduates. Accredited. Free appointment

bureau. Faculty of trained specialists. Complete equipman Fine

dormitories. Catalog.

MID TERM OPENS FEBRUARY 1st
REGISTRAR. 502s GREENWOOD AVE.

BOX 5101 CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

 

Music in Community Centers
(Continued from page 380)

interest and develop promising individuals to be
leaders of their groups, in so far as this can be
done without impairing the progress or delight
of the groups. “Institutes” in music-leading, fol-
lowed by actual leading under gradually lessening
guidance by the instructor, is the usual method.

Recreational Dramatics
(Continued from page 382)

Publishing Company, 542 South Dearborn
Street, Chicago, Illinois. 50c.

Stunts for Summer by Flora M. Frick. A valu-
able handbook for the camp director or anyone
in charge of picnics or outdoor activities. The
Dramatic Publishing Company, 542 South
Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois. 50c.

Stunt Plays by Owen Kelley. A little more
than stunts but simpler than one-act plays are
these 15 “stunt plays,” including comedy,
tragedy, and pathos. Old Town Publishers,
P. O. Box 323, Madison Square Station, New
York City. 75c.

Stunts of All Land: by Catherine A. Miller. An-
other useful collection. These borrow their
character from different nationalities. Richard
Smith, -12 East 4lst Street, New York City.
$1.50.

All plays listed may be purchased from the
Drama Book Shop, 29 \Vest 47th Street, New
York City. Please order from publisher or book
shop.

Note: It is suggested that community center
directors wishing lists of long plays or informa-
tion on conducting drama tournaments communi—
cate with the Community Drama Service of the
N. R. A., which will be glad to provide lists and

to be of all assistance possible.

Spooks' Trysting Place
(Continued from page 385)

paint on the sheet below produces the effect of
blood. If the victim is a girl, her hair is gathered
up and fastened to the rod above with a ribbon.
Her face is powdered and her eyes with a dash of
lead color beneath them are kept closed.

.After all these awesome happenings at Spooks’
Trysting Place the guests will need relief from

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 409

the strain of so many horrors before bidding each
other goodnight. What could be more welcome
or more appropriate than one of the greatest of
all ghost stories! “Dey Ain’t No Ghost,” by
Ellis Parker Butler in “Best Ghost Stories.” This
book can be found in most public libraries or may
be purchased directly from the publishers, Modern
Library, Inc., 20 East 57th Street, New York

City, price $1.00 postpaid.

A Kickball League
(Continued from page 388)

A player must have played or have been in
uniform ready to play in at least half of the
scheduled games in order to be eligible to play
in the finals.

Uniform

Uniform will be bloomers and middy.
Any uniform 'will be censored by the Athletic
Committee of the Department of Recreation.

Ojiicials

Competent officials will be in charge of all
games. Each team will be required to provide
a score—keeper ; otherwise they must be willing to
accept the report of persons assigned by the um—
pires as official.

Score cards will be furnished.

Protests

Protests must be in writing to Miss Erley
within forty—eight hours. A fee of $2.00 must
accompany the protest. This fee will be returned
to the team if the protest is won; if lost, it will
be retained in the treasury.

Og‘icial Rules

City of Detroit, Department of Recreation
Kickball Rules revised for 1931 will be the official
rules for all games played in the League.

Athletic Programs for Young Men
(Continued from page 389)

drawing up and sending out of schedules, the tiling
and checking of team registrations and the result—
ing incidental clerical work demands a fairly
competent clerical staff. Its efficiency quickly re-
flects itself in the respect of teams for the league
organizations.

Our supervisors of games between these organ-
ized teams are the officials who are paid to handle
each individual game. They are always either

(Continued on page 410)

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of Interest to the
Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

American Childhood, June 1931

The Family Center Summer Play School, by Lucy
Retting

Story—Telling on Wheels, by Helen E. Benson

Our Playhouse Moved Outdoors

Projects for the Active Vacation Child

The American City, July 1931

Milwaukee Playgrounds,
Krieger

Nation’s Recreation Expenditure Increased $5,000,000
during 1930

Ought Cities To Buy Block—Interiors for Public
Playgrounds ?

A Park in a Ravine—Cleveland, Ohio

Olympic Athletes Will Swim in Pure Water

Davenport’s New Municipal Stadium

Community Singing in Fond Du Lac

1923-1940, by Elmer

The American City, August 1931

An Unusual Recreation Park at Northampton, Mass.,
by Robert Washburn Beal

Birmingham Park System Gains through Unem—
ployment Programs

Park Development Through Citizen C00peration—
Price, Utah

Old-Timers of Oak Park Play on Huge Outdoor
Checkerboard

Child Study

The June _1931 issue of this magazine is devoted to
competition. Some very interesting and illuminating
discussmns are included.

Child Welfare, June 1931

The Sand Box, by Olivia Liebheit Ure

A Lath Playhouse, by William Alphonso Murrill

The Story Hour for Children, by Randall J. Condon

Vacation Program for Boys, by Roscoe Pulliam

A Toy Orchestra as a Vacation Project, by J. Lilian
Vandevere

Child Welfare, September 1931

Training for Leisure Through Elementary School
Clubs, by Ruth B. Hall

Hygeia, July 1931

Child Leisure—A Modern Problem, by Ruth L.
Frankel

A Hiking Holiday, by Walter S. Chansler

H ygeia, September 1931
Hobbies, by H. F. Kilander

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1931

The Place of Varsity Athletics in a Program of
“Athletics for All,” by Fielding H. Yost

Some Essentials in Playground Planning, by Ernst
Hermann

Dancing Has Its Place in the Physical Education
Program, by Janice Kent

Archery Tournaments, by Philip Rounsevelle

The Erganized Recess Period, by Oscar P. Loeven-
gut

Water Games for Class, Club or Camp, by Lucy
South Proudfoot

The Municipality, June 1931

Construction of Municipal Golf Course Relieves Un-
employment problem for Superior

410 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Parks and Recreation, July 1931
California Park Commission Saves Redwoods in Bull

Creek Flat
Landscape Setting Makes Pool Attractive, by Robert

Washburn Beal
Marine Parks in New York City
Keller Golf Course at St. Paul, by Tom Hastings
An Interview on Public Golf Courses
A Short History of the Public Golf Associations of
Minnesota

Baseball and Its Variations
A New Medium for Art Expression, by V. K. Brown

Parks and Recreation, August 1931
Camp Ovens and Oven Shelters, by Paul B. Riis

Tulsa's Airport as a Park, by C. W. Short, Jr.

Industrial Recreation, by Minnette Brodke Spector

Old-Timers Play on Huge Outdoor Checkerboard,
by Norman Beggs

Roque and Lawn Bowling

Scouting, July 1931
“Let's Give a Play”

The Survey, July 15, 1931
The Meek Inherit the Mirth

PA M mums

Report of the Board of Public Recreation—Fort Myers,
Florida 1931

Celebrating a 300th_ Ann-iversary—Massachusetts Bay
Tercentenary

1930 With the Houston Recreation Department

Sixth Annual Report 1930-31 of the Department of
Recreation, Hamtramck, Michigan

Suggested Activities for Superm'sed Playgrounds
Prepared by the Education Division—National Safety
Councd

Standards of Play and Rccreation Administration
Re ort of the Committee on Play and Recreation
dministration of the National Municipal League.
Prepared by Professor Jay B. Nash.

Published by the National Municipal League
261 Broadway, New York City
25¢ per capy

T'zt'enty-(ifth Annual Report of the Board of Park Com-
missioners of Peoria, Illinois, 1930

United _States Publications on Education, Office of Edu-
cation 1931, United States Department of the Interior.

Annual Report of the Department of Public Recreation,
Miami Beach, Florida, 1930

Ethics of the Teaching Profession, Kansas City School
Service Bulletin, March 1931

Municipal Activities, 1930—Cincinnati, Ohio

(Continued from page 409)
college players or men who have some established
prestige in the sport in which they officiate. Their
compensation has been $1 for baseball games; $5
for an evening of three basketball games; $5 for
football games; and $3 for a hockey game.

As far as results are concerned, we have, I
presume, mainly provided this age group with
something to do and think about. An organization
of this kind more than doubles their playing time
and the self-restrain and playing standard which
is required of the teams who play in our leagues
is, of course, a valuable training.

National Recreation Day
(Continued from page 392)

Editors Approve

Typical of the editorial comment on the anni-
versary celebrations are the following:

Battle Creek, Michigan, Enquirer News: “What
Mr. Hoover had to say is echoed in thousands of
hearts. Here in Battle Creek, where in Dr. John
Harvey Kellogg we have a director of the national
association, we daily see the benefits of organized
play. Battle Creek’s playgrounds are approaching
the close of their most successful summer season.

“And, while we watch the nation and the world
going to the bow-wows, as our best critics assert,
we can find with Mr. Hoover "a little glint of silver
in the cloud’s lining as we contemplate millions of
children who are finding health and happiness on
the playgrounds of a nation.”

Lock Haven, Pa., Express: “There are few
communities so small but they will be able, by
effort and devotion, to provide some means of
organized recreation for their children. Every
community which has neglected to take up play—
ground work, and which continues to evade that
responsibility is depriving its children and young
people of one of the greatest present day forces
for good.”

There is ample evidence that the anniversary
programs helped strongly to focus public atten-
tion on the basic contributions of organized public
recreation to child happiness and welfare.

“You Can Make It"
(Continued from page 399)

it contains. In quantities “You Can Make It,”
Volume I, sells at $4.00 a hundred.

Several hundred boys and girls participated in
each of the contests, the results of which clearly
indicate that the “You Can Make It” program of
the National Committee on “food Utilization is
receiving enthusiastic support in various sections
of the country. -

“Education of our adults is needed now as
never before, for in this machine, mass-produc—
tion age, the life of the worker must be enriched
or, in many cases, his spirit will die. \Ve prob—
ably can hold the place we now have by schooling
children only, but to make real progress we must
educate adults.”——L. R. Alderman, U. S. thce of

Education.

    

The Recreation Kit, 26

Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough. Church Rec—
reation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

HIS issue of the Pocket Magazine of Social Recrea-

tion, which is so widely and favorably known, contains
in addition to some social recreation activities the high
lights of the fifth social recreation institute held at
Walden Woods, Michigan, and the tentative recreation
creed, quotations from which appear in connection with
Miss Viola P. Armstrong’s article on social recreation
in the current issue of RECREATION.

Procedures for Character Education

By Harold S. Tuttle and Paul A. Menegat. The Coop-
erative Book Store, University of Oregon, Eugene, Ore—

gon. $1.75.

T HIS carefully edited collection in mimeographed form

of the procedures published in City and State Courses
of Study for use in character training shows the rapid
development of a movement which, one writer points out.
has been under way since 1905. In recent years courses
in methods of character education have been introduced
into teachers’ colleges and schools of education in rapidly
increasing numbers. Especially is this true of summer
sessions, with the result that teachers are going back to
their work each fall
stimulated with new
interest. Out of this
interest on the part of
educational leaders,
expressed through lit-
erature and training
courses, there has
come the introduction
of programs of char-
acter education in the
schools of‘the coun-
try. Of those school
systems which are
working out conscious
programs looking
t o w a r d character
building only a com-
parative few ever put
their results into
printed form available
for the use of other
schools. The com—
pilers of this book
have, therefore, per-
formed a valuable ser-
vice in bringing to-
gether this collection
of available material.

New Books on Recreation

 

The Fun-Craft Book

By Rachel Taft Dixon and Marjorie Hartwell. Rand
McNally and Company, New York. $1.00.

HIN GS made from paper and pasteboard, beads, weav-

ing with yarn and strips of cloth, block printing and
stenciling and match-box treasures fill the pages of this
attractively illustrated book, which tells what to do with
scissors and paste.

Municipal Auditoriums

By Edna Trull. Municipal Administration Service, 261
Broadway, New York City. $.35.

THIS study presents and analyzes the basic physical

and financial data concerning auditoriums in more than
one hundred cities, stressing the practical problems of
administration with which auditorium managements are
concerned. Among the subjects considered from the ex-
perience of these cities are those of legal authority, form
of management and control, general financial policies, the
fixing of rates, the utilization of auditoriums and their
relation to the city plan. Special emphasis is placed on
the fact that the value of a municipal auditorium is de-
termined not so much by the financial results as by the
degree to which public-spirited management has made it
a useful center of community activity.

1““! g   qT

411

412 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION '

“TIiE ‘EVERYDODY SINC’ BOOK.” Edited by Kenneth S.
Clark, Paull-Pioneer Music Company, New York,
1931, price 25 cents a copy.

Very few persons, if any, have had so wide and rich
an experience as Mr. Clark in cultivating musical ac-
tivities among all sorts of people. Consequently the new
song book compiled and edited by him is likely to be
very effective and valuable. This book is plainly de-
signed for the singing Of the great masses of people,
though it contains a good many choral arrangements of
folk songs that will please even the most cultivated
music lovers. The book contains 177 selections for al-
most all of which piano accompaniments are given. “Sing
for the joy of singing” is the slogan appearing on the
front cover and the editor has evidently kept this idea
in mind throughout his work. First comes the mixed
voice section including many of the traditional favorites
in community singing, without which no song book
would be complete. The second section carries out an
idea new to community song books, for it consists of a
set of arrangements by Mr. Clark which are interchange-
able as .to their use by male or mixed voices, and yet
are in keys making the songs suitable for unison singing.
This is an especially valuable idea that works out per-
fectly. Let your “barber shop" quartets and glee clubs,
as well as mixed choruses, enjoy the 50 songs of this
section. A special section of hymns and carols comes
third. The fourth section is given over to stunt songs
and to greetings which are used as salutations to visitors
on special occasions. Then comes a unison section con-
sisting mostly of the so-called popular songs of recent
decades in our country. Finally. there is a supplementary
section consisting of the text of a number of songs, most
of them favorites of recent years. Throughout the book
there is a scattering of “rounds,” all of them capable
of giving pleasure to any group who can sing, no matter
how modest their skill.

The book is said to be a real American collection and
since it contains not only many of our popular songs of
the past but also a large number of native cowboy and
sea songs and mountain ballads and Negro Spirituals,
it truly is the first song book of its kind that is en-
tirely American except for a few folk songs like Aiild
Lmig Sync and 0 Sole Mia, which have become so
popular among all or a large part of our peOple that
they may be regarded also as American.

Some peOple will regard the collection as a whole
as containing much music that is too sweet, sentimental,
or inane to be indulged in happily for any length of
time if at all; and they will wonder perhaps whether any
number of people can enjoy those of the old, quite for-
gotten popular songs whose tunes are very trite and
whose umpah accompaniments are more so. The radio
has done so much to raise our standards of taste even
in popular songs, as is shown by the striking advance in
rhythm, harmony and often in counterpoint reached in
many of the pOpular songs of the day. At the same time
a large proportion of the millions of children now in
school are having musical experiences that are, we hOpe,
even more telling than those provided by the radio and
a more admirable Tin Pan Alley. One would sup-
pose that all this growth would make some of the songs
in this book seem much less vital and delightful than
the great abundance of simple but fine and lastineg
gripping music now available almost everywhere. How-
ever, the book is to be heartily welcomed and should be
given the largest possible opportunity to prove itself.

A. D. ZANZIC.

THE CAMP LIBRARY. For Use of Welfare Camps. Com-
piled by Elsa H. Naumburg for the United Neighbor-
hood Houses and issued by The Children’s Welfare
Federation, 244 Madison Avenue, New York City.

$.10.

“What shall they read at camp P” The answer is found
in this compilation of books on fiction, adventure, mys-
tery, romance, sports and humor, arranged according to
their use for various age groups. There is also a list of
stories to tell.

BUSINESS GIRLS—A STUDY OF THEIR INTERESTS AND
PROBLEMS. The Religious Education Association,

Chicago, Illinois. $1.00.

This book gives the results Of a study made by The
Religious Education Association in cooperation with the
National Board Of the Y. W. C. A. and a number of local
Y. W. C. A. groups. The Chicago Collegiate Bureau of
Occupations and the Central Branch of the Chicago
Y. W. C. A. permitted the use of their records, and sev-
eral hundred business girls wrote tests, gave interviews,
and in some cases wrote the story of their experiences.
The report gives a picture of the Office worker, a general
survey of her interests and problems, information regard-
ing home and family life; intellectual abilities and inter-
ests and friends and vocational problems. The girl and
her money, the girl and the church, and undevelOped
personalities are discussed. A valuable section of the
report is that giving a bibliography.

The girls were asked to tell of their recreational iii-
terests. Travel was the most commonly checked item on
the list of interests; 89.4 per cent of the girls wanted
to travel, and the replies showed a marked interest in
new experiences. Eighty per cent of the girls men—
tioned some very active recreation as a hobby, such as
athletics, boating, dancing; 39 per cent indicated study,
reading or writing as a hobby, while 27 per cent men-
tioned some form of art, music or dramatics.

MUNICIPAL GOLF COURSES IN THE UNiTED STATES
(WITII STATISTICAL INFORMATION). Public links
Section, United States Golf Association, 110 East
42nd Street, New York. Free.

In this new pamphlet the United States Golf Asso-
ciation has brought up to date its valuable directory of
existing courses, giving information about the size,
charges, the cost of operation, whether self-maintaining
or not, and names of governing authorities and profes-
sional in charge. According to the list, which has been
made as complete as possible, 191 cities are conducting
291 municipal golf courses.

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS
oszrn LEE, President
mm H. FINLEv, First Vice-President
hours G. \VINANT, Second Vice-President
one“ GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. Kiav, Treasurer
HownD S. BIAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mus. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE Carlisle, Pa.
\VILLIAn BUTTEIWORTH, Moline. Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBET‘I‘, Portland. Ore.
Mas. AaniUn G. CUMHEI, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1.. N. Y.
Mus. THOMAS A. EDISON \Vest Orange, N. J.
{{OIIN H. FINLEY. New York. N. Y.

UCN FRAYNE. New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
Mas. CHARLES A. GOODWIN, Hartford, Conn.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
WILLIAu HALE IIAiixNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHAaLEs IIAYDEN, New York. N. Y. _
Mus. CIIARLEs V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MES. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE. Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDDN, fndianapolis, Ind.
Mas. CHAIILES D. LANIEa, Greenwich, Conn.
Roses-r LASSITi-zii, Charlotte, N. C.
PSEPH LEE Boston, Mass.

.DWAIID E Loonus, New York. N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Spflngf‘icld. _Mass.
OTTO T. MALLEIIY, Philadelghia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburg , Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me:
Miss ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla, Calif.
HAROLD H. SWIFT, Chicago Ill. .
FREDEIUCK S. TITswoarn, New York,  Y.
Mas. JANES W. WAnswonT-II Jn., Washington, D. C.
. c. wALsn. New York, N’. Y.

OHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H. _
Ins. WILLIAH H. WOODIN Js. Plainlield, N. J.
FREDERICK M. WAnuac, ew York, N. Y.
C. S. WESTON. Scranton, Pa.

