Leisure

Leisure for everybody, a condition that we- in America are now ap-
proaching, is a new thing under the sun—the most revolutionary thing that
ever happened. It means the coming of something unheard of in all history
—-—the opportunity for every man to live.

Man is a stranger in the modern world. An outdoor animal by nature,
he is locked in factories and in crowded.cities; an artist, a thinker, an in-
ventor he is tied to the fool-proof machines. It is seldom and only by great
good fortune that he finds in our industrial world an outlet for his adventur-
ous and creative spirit. We are all victims of disappointed instinct—home-
sick for something for which nature fashioned us which we have left behind,
for. something dreamed of that we have not attained.

There is nothing new in this condition. Through all the centuries
that history records, freedom to live has been a privilege of the very few.
Ancient civilization, with its marvelous freeing of man’s soul in art and
science, was built on slavery. Life in the Middle Ages was for the noble,
to whom were reserved the arts of war and government and of the chase.
Life-precluding toil was for the serf. Always, in organized society, the
great mass has labored that the few might live.

In modern times these conditions, legally speaking, have been changed;
serfdom and slavery in a political sense have been abolished. But the thing
itself—denial of the right to 1ive-——persists. Life has still been the monopoly
of the very few.

But now the incredible thing has happened. By great good fortune—
by accident so far as we are concerned and not by our design—this gift is
brought to us, the gift of universal leisure, unprecedented since the fall of
man. It is a magic gift. The goddess hands it to us with a smile, knowing
its portentous possibilities for good or ill according to the use we make of it.
Here is our chance—the most extraordinary ever granted to a nation—bear—
ing the heaviest responsibility. We may employ it in revisiting, in the woods,
and by the streams, and at the playing fields, the ancient sources of our
strength and may seek in the pursuit of beauty and of understanding, our
great inheritance; or we may spend the gift in the frenzied seeking of
sensation and in barren pleasures. We may choose the path of life or pass

it by.
JOSEPH LEE.

57

I'

Recreation Movement Celebrates Birthday

 a.

ll

'1.
h

l v." _
Inn-'- I  .

 

.. 



a '“L

i
4“».

    

-——-—_-———

 

Reading from left to right: Otto T. Mallery, President of Philadelphia Playground Association; Mrs. Charles D.
Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.; F. S. Titsworth, Attorney, New York City,- Gustavus T. Kirby, President of Public Schools
Athletic League, New York City; Joseph Lee, Boston, President of the Association,- President Hoover,- H. S. Brancher,
Secretary of the Assdciation; Carl E. Millihen, Former Governor of Maine; Mrs. Arthur E. Cummer. Jacksonville,
Florida; Austin E. Grimths, Former Justice of the Superior Court, Seattle, Washington,- Mrs. Edward W. Biddle,
Carlisle, Pa.,- J. C. Walsh, Publisher, New York City,- W m. C. Butterworth, President Chamber of Commerce of the

United States.

Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Meeting

Board of Directors National Recreation Association

The White House, Washington, D. C.
April 13, 1931

Recreation Association at the White House on

this occasion. The Association was organized at
the White House twenty-Five years ago, and it is a
most iitting place ior your twenty-iiith anniversary
meeting.

"I have iollowed the work oi the Association ior
many years. It has tal<en a most significant and a
magnificent part in the whole recreational develop-
ment oi the country. its work today is oi increasing
importance because ‘oi the growing congestion oi
cities on one hand, and the increasing leisure oi our
peop e, on the other. The whole recreational move-
ment is one not only vital to public health, but it is
vital to public weliare. The growing congestion oi
the cities presents constantly new problems oi physi-
cal and moral and mental training oi children, on one
hand, and the growing leisure by shortened hours oi
labor presents increasing problems in provision oi
opportunity ior roper use oi increasing leisure ior
adults. Many liess problems in government arise
which concern people while they are at worlc than

58 V"-

I AM glad to welcome the directors oi the National

while they are at leisure. They do not oiten go to
iail ior activities when they are on their iobs. Most
oi our problems arise when the people are oii oi the
iob. Every progress in constructive recreation ior
leisure time not only imp-roves health, but also morals.

"The Federal government, during the period oi the
Association's activities and to a considerable degree
due to the eiiorts oi the Association, has developed
in itseli a great number oi recreational activities.“
assume that the growth oi social aspects oi govern-
ment will increase the interest oi the government in
recreational questions, and we need the assistance oi
the Association in directing these policies. li there
is anything that we can do to cooperate with the
Association in any direction you will iind a most
hearty welcome to the views oi the Association in
every section oi the government.

"I wish to express to you the most proiound ad-
miration that I hold ior the work oi the Association
and to extend to you my best wishes ior its iurther
development."--Herbert Hoover,

President oi the United States

The White House Anniversary Meeting

after the founding of the Playground

Association of America, the board of
directors of the National Recreation Association
met for three hours in the historic cabinet room
of the White House. With obvious warmth and
enthusiasm, President Hoover addressed them
with the notable statement printed on the oppo—
site page. The President’s address and the board’s
meeting in the White House practically duplicated
a scene on April 12, 1906, when the founders of
the association held one of their organization
meetings in the same spot on the invitation of
President Theodore Roosevelt.

The anniversary program included a review of
the association’s work and the progress of public
recreation within the past twenty-five years, a dis-
cussion of present day needs in recreation in
America, and the laying of plans for service dur-
ing the next twenty-five years. Brief addresses
by Secretary Adams of the Navy Department,
Secretary Wilbur of the Department of the In-
terior, and F. Trubee Davison, Assistant Secre-
tary of War for Aeronautics, representing the
War Department, appreciatively related the serv-
ices of the association to the national government.

After President Hoover’s address which took
place immediately after the group assembled,
Joseph Lee, president of the association since
1910, briefly reviewed the early days of the or-
ganization, and pointed out the immense oppor-
tunity facing public recreation today. In part he
said, “Leisure for everybody, a condition we in
America are now approaching, is the most extraor-
dinary chance ever granted to a nation. It means
the coming of something unheard of in all his-
tory—the opportunity for every man to live.”

The progressive shortening of the weekly work
period has afforded workers more free time, stated
Dr. John H. Finley, associate editor of the N ew
Y ork Times, listing changes in contemporary life
which are affecting recreation. “There is less
labor on the farm and more work in the factory.
With the rapidly increasing use of machinery, less
of the worker goes into his work, but there is
greater nervous tension and more need for recrea-
tional release. . . . Daylight saving in our cities
has made it easier for workers to take time for
recreation.” He pointed to a greater modern
need of good sportsmanship, because of “the tre-

O N April 13, twenty-five years and a day

mendous power which is now being put into men’s
hands not only mechanically but also in the way of
control over the destinies of their fellow men.”

Contrasting conditions in 1906 when the asso-
ciation was founded with those of today, Otto
Mallery said that the play of the child of 1906
was tolerated rather than encouraged. “It is now
recognized as a municipal responsibility,” he
stated, and cited the case of Philadelphia which
he said, “Has one hundred more playgrounds and
spends half a million dollars more per year for
play and recreation than it did twenty-five years

ago.”

National Endowment Needed

William C. Butterworth, president of the Cham—
ber of Commerce of the United States, presented
a number hof resolutions passed by the board. The
principal one, calling attention to the huge annual
crime bill of the United States, the increase of
diseases of the heart and nervous system under
the strain of modern life, the mounting burden of
insanity, the numbers of children killed each.year
by automobiles on the streets and highways, the
annual toll of uvenile delinquency and the health
needs of American childhood reported at the re-
cent White House Conference on Child Health
and Protection, reaffirmed a previous resolution
of the association voicing the need of “a founda-
tion or limited period endowment of not less than
$10,000,000.00 for the National Recreation Move-
ment.”

Robert Lassiter, of Charlotte, N. C., whose
paper was submitted in his absence, seconded the
need for endowments to permit research in the
field of recreation, “If there is any subject which
it is important for men to know about,” he stated,
“it is recreational living, what activities have been
found really to give permanent satisfaction.”

The association’s services to the War, Navy,
Labor, and Agricultural Departments of the na-
tional government were pointed out by Gustavus
T._ Kirby, treasurer of the association. “The as-
sociation is giving the personal service of field
workers to more than 400 local and municipal gov-
ernments,” he said, also citing its cooperation with
thirty-five state departments of education in physi-
cal education and the extensive rural training
courses.  C. Walsh declared that the field work-

KCOntz’Wed 971.1’09398).   .- ~

g... 

.59

Trends

in

Recreation Service

By V. K. Brown

Superintendent Playgrounds and Sports
South Park System, Chicago

Beyond the old objectives of
health and safety, recreation
service has set new goals for

human expression.

are distinguishable only from a remote point

of view. Attempting to review trends of to-
day is necessarily, therefore, a venture in de—
tachment, in boarding an airplane, figuratively,
and surveying the familiar from a distance. In
that venture one person’s views are worth no
more than another’s. If your observations dif-
fer, I have no quarrel with you. My father often
remarked that I was always positive, and some-
times right. Here I may not be right at all, and
I am moved to appear positive only because in our
work, long experience in visualizing the events
we plan, and checking the fore-visioned against
the later actual, lends training to our imaginations.
That alone gives me assurance in undertaking,
now, an appraisal which might be done with con-
fidence only fifty years hence.

For youthful trends, not ancient and mediaeval,
but modern trends, are an aloof lot. They do
not welcome intimates. In their declining years
they may acknowledge bowing acquaintance with
historians; but no ordinary person ever gets on
terms of familiarity with them until after they
have been gathered to their rewards. In their
active careers there’s a divinity that hedges them
about with majesty. They break a path across
our effort, scorn alike our purposes and our dig-

60

T RENDS, like larger patterns in a landscape,

 

courtesy m'cu-uuuu Utpanmem, 4.0.x: Ulunxe, n. J.

Baseball is a hardy annual
flourishing on playgrounds

nities, trample our idols, and haughtily refuse to
entertain protest. Looking on King Tut today,
the lowliest can say in an offhand, intimate way,
"Ah, there. How’s things, Old Top?” But
could he have done so during Tut’s reign? I
think it doubtful.

A Series of Trends

Assuming such a nonchalant attitude, however,
as if on terms of easy familiarity with every
trend extant today, even at the risk of lese
majeste, the first one that claims attention, to my
own way of thinking, is the trend toward studious
experimenting in recreation service. \Ve are at-
tempting what might almost be called a research
attack, working out techniques of control and
trying to assay results, in most of the major sys—
tems of recreation service, and in many of the
minor systems, to a degree unforeseeable a few
years back. I think it distinctly a sign of the
times in our work.

Of course, that attitude had its causes. It does
not stand alone. It harks back to a parent, and
that to another antecedent tendency, in turn, for
trends have ancestors. Its most immediate fore-
runner is the trend toward more refined and
better adjusted technique in the attack on our
problems in general. Broadly stated, it is the
purpose to achieve better workmanship, all
round, with better trained personnel, more atten-
tion to considerations of culture and the estab-
lishment of backgrounds, better artistry. I think

TRENDS IN RECREATION SERVICE 61

that an unmistakable present trend, the one which
fathered the study phase.

That trend, too, follows from a cause. Its
parent, in turn, is the trend toward a more com—
prehensive program, designed to serve all sorts
of pe0ple in our communities—to encompass
every recreational interest insofar as possible.
PrOgram building has become of vital impor-
tance. Once haphazard, it'has become precise;
restricted at first, it has been reaching toward
inclusiveness. To include all sorts of specializa-
tion, it led naturally to the mastery of tech-
niques, and the abandonment of superficial and
smattering knowledge of the various subjects of
interest.

Again, this trend traces its origin to a fore-
runner, and that, I think, is the trend toward
more clearly defined objectives.

Finally, the trend in our objectives descended
from a still earlier trend in the phi1050phy of the
whole recreation movement, to bring it down to
practical terms and every—day applications, to
serve the needs of present life.

Discussing these trends, it is better to start
with the more fundamental, working toward the
particular. I shall therefore elaborate on them
in reverse order from that in
which I have listed them here.

The Trend in Our
Philosophy

Our concepts in the field
of recreation have been ma—
turing. We were rather naive
at first, thinking a mineral
spring the fountain of youth.
Romantic Optimism prevailed
not alone in the field of recre-
ation, a quarter century ago.
The critical attitude, in faith
and statecraft, education and
sociology, has greatly grown
in our time. When jacob
Riis inspected the ten new
community centers of the
South Park System, here in
Chicago, in 1905, his eyes
glowed at gymnasiums, swim-
ming pools, halls, and acres
of playfields surrounding
each group of buildings.
“Now,” the eastern humani~
tarian exclaimed, * “now I’m
ready to die!” Here at last

lacfe. Case m.
ethos riajaort’mq’D

organized public,
recreofhou l906-l92‘l

 

was magic. Here community life would be vital-
ized, ennobled, by an uplift emanating from the
people themselves. Here was the answer, the
Doorway to Millennium. Not into ploughshares
were swords reshaped, but into machinery to do
our work for us. Conflict was ended, and labor.

In the first glow of those early enthusiasms
We all felt much the same confidence that in the
community center we had invented an automatic
device to shape individual and social destinies.
Well, the years have brought us disillusionment
—-——and wisdom. We now know that man is made
for pursuit, and has still a long preparation to
undergo before he can be trusted with fulfillment.
We realize that he needs struggle, a taste of tri-
umph, and then struggle again. And for our-
selves we want tools, yes, but tools which demand
work on our part to make them function; we
ask the boon not of watching idly while mecha—
nisms perform our tasks for us, but rather of
laboring till the work of our hands, taking form
from the thing we planned, be at last established,

and we experience the satisfaction that creators
have always known since the Divine Creator,

completing the orderly universe, looked it over,
and called it good—and turned to work again!

This change in viewpoint
literally saved our souls, I be-
lieve. We were all evangel-
ists of a new order, in those
early days, possibly dubious
about the new heaven, but
confidently announcing the
new earth. Old things were
passed away. Perhaps it was
fortunate, that apocalyptic ec-
stasy. The movement needed
evangelists then; fervor was
necessary, and faith, till re—
sults appeared. But it was
our salvation that when they
did appear we had progressed
t o w a r d critical-mindedness.
There were results, not uni-
versally lest we become com-
placent, but often enough to
encourage, and still to chal--
lenge us—to demand that we
master the how and the why,
to be able to make them more
general. By that process we
came to the hidden and
deeper values, and so our

concepts grew.

o2 'l'k‘l.:\1).8 I.\ R1:'('1€I:l1'['1().\ Skiff/IL 11'

 

Recreation leaders today are trained for

thought as well as activity. Above is the 1931

class of the National Recreation School, which

has prepared 137 college graduates for recrea-

tion work since it opened in 1926 for one-year
graduate courses.

For we hate grown

more studious; we take
our job more seriously. At
that early day we heard
constantly about the “Play -'
Spirit.” Recent conferences have. not employed
the term. “"0 were exhorted to cultivate a joyous»
ness of behavior —-a terrible task for those of us
with stern New England ancestry ~to affect spon~
taneous sprightliness of demeanor. ()bediently we
were grimly gleeful. \Ve bear scars yet to witness
how we. suffered in some of those first orgies of
unconfined joy. But we have changed that now
to a purpose only to promote naturalness and
sincerity in self-expression. I think we ante-
dated the psychiatrists in recognizing the inner
drives toward self-expression. and in r salizing its
importance to personality development. to mental.
and even spiritual hygiene. ()n closer acquain-
tance with the stiffness and restraint which even
then we recognized as the ghost at every banquet.
we sensed that it was an inhibition. Not using
that word. of course. The term was not epi-
demic yet, as it has since become.

\Ve saw, too. that it was of the family of
other inhibitions, that its cousins and aunts were
equally kill-joys, although their specialties might
he to gibber at us on other occasions. By degrees
we came to sympathize with the universal passion
for release, for freedom. Of late there has even
come about an actual tolerance of those of us who
are by nature solemn. I don’t say that we are

sought out and cultivated.
but I insist that we at least
are no longer coerced into
proclaiming "I’m a little
prairie flower" when all of
our cravings are to remain violets by mossy stones.
()h. the evidences of this particular trend are all
about tts.

Reasonably early, then. we catne to the conclu-
sion that everyone is entitled to his own per-
sonality, that he has probably done something to
earn it. And the whole of our thinking and sub-
sequent doing has been profoundly influenced by
that fundamental concept. It was a fertile trend.
a parent trend. It has a numerous progeny.

The Trend in Our Objectives

One of them has changed our purposes—
"switched goals on us.” It made us scrap our
moulds and dies. discard our passion for a ready-
made humanity. and concede. a grudging bit at
first. but gradually more and more. to the dis-
criminating who want custom-built personalities.
Our jobs at once became more involved. which
\ 'as painful enough tmtil we found them, by that
much, more interesting. Up to that time we had
thought in terms of health. and relaxation. and
safety. \Vholesomeness had been our watch-
word, escape from the perils of back-lot or alley.
exercise wisely administered. sociability under
safeguards, release from tensions of the working
day. playing in imitation of life anticipating real

TRENDS IN RECREATION SERVICE 63

life; these were our early purposes. But there
has been a trend toward an enlargement, or shall
we say a deepening, of these objectives, as we saw
our way more clearly. Health came to new mean—
ings, not merely bodily vigor, muscular coordina-
tions, organic functioning; it took on in addition
something of the significance the mental hygiene
people now attach to it, the serenities based on a
consciousness of balanced living, the confidence in
one’s capacities to do, or to become, the self re-
spect arising from recognized accomplishment.
We discovered, early, the widespread desire to
win applause and social approval; even yet we are
more aware than any other group I know about,
——educators, psychiatrists, psychologists,-——of the
tremendous part which the pursuit of status,
among one’s fellows, plays in life. And we were,
I think, among the first to observe how ambitions
discipline people, how the athlete, or artist, or
aspirant. in any other field, voluntarily adopts
spartan regimes, controls appetite and impulse,
regulates his life, to make everything contribute
to his progress toward the chosen end or goal.
Certainly we have long differentiated between this
sort of discipline, self-imposed and self-chosen
discipline, and those disciplines inflicted upon an
unwilling victim of a poverty stricken social state
where want of freedom, of time, or of means,
leads not into temptation. And observing that
our ills. personal misadventure, social misdirec-
tion, and international tragedy, alike, have
their origin not so often in human ignorance

as in human weakness, that impulse rather than
faulty reasoning leads us astray, we have recently
come to insist that any attempt to parallel in edu—
cation the accepted culture of the intellect with a
corresponding culture of the emotions will find
probably its most immediate avenue for practical
attack upon the problems involved in the en-

thusiasms and ideals, the drives and urges, of the
leisure hour and its pursuits.

New Objectives Prevalent

Our objectives are moving over into new
ground. Where we once were content to
issue medals of award for signal accom—
plishment, and to consider victory a suffi—
cient end in itself, in view of the striving and the
sacrifice which made the victory possible, now
we are concerned far more with the spiritual sig-
nificances of that victory to the victor himself,
to the steadying fact it represents to him—~—the
fact, however later life may buffet him, that once
at least, in a contest where he threw his whole
self into the issue, in spite of opposition, fatigue,
and difficulty, he fought through to triumph, and
stood at the end unconquered and unconquerable.
Long ago, we passed the point where we were
interested exclusively in what people do in recre-
ation ; the trend is now to consider, as more vital,
rather what the thing done itself does, in turn,
to the doer of it.

This miniature scenic railway built and electrified by Los

Angeles playground boys was a test of skills and ingenuity

 

64 TRENDS IN RECREATION SERVICE

The Trend in Our Program

Our programs reflected this concept, at once.
We must attempt comprehensiveness. Keeping
children busy no longer satisfied us. Busy at
what? And to what ends? True, they were
safer when busy; but was that two-pcr-cent yield
a sufficient one on our investment? Did it rep-
resent a close enough approximation of the maxi-
mum possible return? We saw lives re-patterned,
all about us, by the passion to achieve masteries.
We watched gangs disintegrate as their mother-
ing, protective adequacies were no longer needed
when personal adequacies were attained—or were
even held out as attainable. we saw their mem-
bership re-grouped about
the magnetizing core of a
common pursuit. One
member might attach him-
self to the swimming fra-
ternity, another was at-
tracted to track athletics, a
third to a model airplane
group. They had begun to
find themselves; real' dis-
tinction appealed more
strongly than the pseudo-
distinction of the gang as-
sociation, where, actual per-
sonality denied, they had
been seeking a substitute, as
close as possible, to the
more desirable personal dis-
tinction, in group distinc-
tion. We saw personal con-
fidence gained. And it occurred to 'us, overwhelm-
ing us at first, that in implanting and nurturing
ambitions toward personal achievement we were
contacting the very soul of life itself. coming
as close to sacred ground as one ever comes. in
dealing with the inner life of another. For we
were serving only the hungers of men. Forced to
school, impelled to church, tied to their families,
they escaped to the recreation center. To us they
came by choice; ours was the institution of free-
dom. The thing they did in our buildings was the
thing desired. And if we could harness that desire.
Capture the energies of that lightning flash of
choice, what wheels might we not set turning?

How to attract them? Most of the world’s
thinking comes from books. But the literature
f our subject has been slow in arriving. What
ere was of it was helpful. Joseph Lee was
- thinking clearly; Jane Addams penetrated to the

 

Eighty-four per cent of the 1929 expendi-
ture for public recreation was tax funds

very heart of youth. But we were without many
books, and so we turned, for the most part, to
life. And life revealed itself—its desires and

its darings. Youth? The books are still dis-
cussing its sex and its morals. But in life—ah,

that’s different! Youth, in our time, has flung
itself, fittingly, in the freedom of the skies, across
oceans, and above the poles, and after throwing
its gauntlet in the face of death itself, has come
back like an eagle to a dove-cote with never a
word about “fluttering the Voltians in Corioli!”
The damning thing about our books is how little
they know of life. \Ve elders sit by the fire and
write them, and flowing to their pages is the
weariness that has scored so
deep in us, a weariness that
makes us forget how even
we once demanded combat
and conquest, a bitter battle.
after a worthy challenge,
and only a vision of tri-
umph in the end.

Learning from life, we
first thought in terms of
"types" — the “physical
type,” the “aesthetic type,”
the “social or gregarious
type,” the “creative type.”
It was great while it lasted.
“7 e merely pigeonholed our
fellows, only to observe that
the stubborn creatures
wouldn’t stay catalogued.
They tumbled out into all
sorts of impossible re-assemblings, at the slightest
jostle. In the end we achieved one thing. at least—
a new and man-sized respect for the infinite vari-
ety of motives and interests which drive even the
humblest of our fellows. And as purveyors to
their demands. we were pushed from physical
play into sports and competition. and then into
social recreation. creative handcraft, and the arts:
and the end of the broadening program is not

even in sight.
,

Enter the “Taxpayer.’ He read our ad-
vertisements, listened to our bally-hoo. took
us at our word, and wanted to know, if some
were given golf, why he was denied a casting
pool? If baseball was recognized, were we so
blind as to overlook the superiorities of cricket?
The loyalties of men to the sport of their devo-
tion—a wonderful set of loyalties they are. They
go beyond our present soundings and have pos-

TRENDS IN RECREATION SERVICE 65

sibilities we haven’t yet started to explore, much
less to exploit. Passionate devotion to the arts,
the fierce espousal of the traditions and the codes
of the thousand things to which people give their
lives when in their leisure hours they really as-
sume the captaincy of their souls,—who can deny
such ardent championing? We are launched on
a course which makes human cravings articulate.
Our assumption of leadership, our profession of
service, have taught them where to come. And,
they are coming to audience. It has scarcely
started, but the things men long to do have ut-
terance, after all the centuries of silence. He
would be presumptuous who dared say what will
come of it.

But the trend is manifestly toward a more
inclusive program.

,The Trend in Our Technique

Programs, however, to throw a Spark, must,
like a dynamo, be operated. They profit us
nothing otherwise. \Ve soon saw also that
events do not constitute a service. Playing foot-
ball by no means indicates that the player is get-
ting out of the game the things there, to be
incorporated in him, if made available. And
preaching them to the player is not an efficient
process of getting them into the fibre and stuff
that makes up himself. That is where the per-
sonal work of the coach comes into play; his
personality projecting itself into the player, his
guidance, the long grind of practice, the routin-
ing of life and impulse, the discipline volun-
tarily adhered to and continued, bearing a hope-
ful heart in defeat and a modest one in victory—
these are the annealing processes which in the
fulness of time burn out the car—
bons and make a tempered prod-
uct. These became our task to
engineer.

Because the heart of youth is
contentious, we employed from
the first, competition. But com-
petition merely looses the whirl-
wind, unless controlled. We had
early to set ourselves the long
art of learning its control. The
vehicles of control are still in the
making, merit systems of scoring
the three-part contract of the con-
tender—that with his playing
skill which demands that he do
his utmost to win; that with his

opponent that he win in manly fashion stooping to
no unworthy or unfair method in winning; and
that with his followers that he accept the social ob-
ligations implied in his schedule to appear, at a
certain place, at a certain hour, lit and attuned
to give his utmost. These have been, and still
are, matter for experiment, in treatment. There
was also the problem of so organizing competi-
tion that it does not elevate only those already
most proficient and dishearten the beginning as-
pirant for success. Lately, splitting sports into
their constituent skills, and affording tests of
those elements in the all round ability, we have
been making progress in passing distinction
around a constantly ,enlarging circle. We have
also made progress in lending equal dignity to
achievement in some of the less spectacular
sports; crediting achievement in all the pro-
grammed competition to the institution repre-
sented, and carrying through the year a sustained
competition thereby, we are making the promin-
ent athlete lend the support of his encouragement
and the backing of his prestige to the contender
who is a team mate in eEect, although, engaging
in some minor activity on which the athlete might
otherwise look with contempt as being worthy
the attention of a soft and degenerate individual
only. This technique has actually brought recog-
nized champions in some of the most vigorous
sports out to cheer on their playground represen-
tatives even in so eiTeminate an event as a kite
tournament.

We do it because kite flying to the one whose
heart is in it may be, for him, an avenue, to we
know not what ultimate goals. Thomas Edison,
the man, was once Tommy Edison, the lad.

“Life challenges us in different ways, but
challenge us it does, and individually”

 

Courtesy Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Dept.

66 TRENDS IN RECREATION SERVICE

Something started him toward a distant horizon.
We do not know yet the import of boyhood’s
earliest strivings. Travelling overseas with
America’s Olympic Team in 1928, I asked our
team members whether any of their present
eminence, each in his chosen specialty, traced
back to a boyhood interest. Many thought not,
at first, but going deeper into the coordinations
which, perfected, had made them the nation’s most
skilled representatives, each at last harked back
to something which he felt might have laid a
foundation, at least, for his proficiencies.

Ours must be the technique which makes art
possible for the one whose hungers demand art
under penalty of a thwarted and unhappy life.
And we must lead him into the fullness of art un-
der the widest possible horizons, where he can be
pointed toward its loftiest distant peaks. if the
urge in him be so insistent that he must obey the
call to go there, or permit his soul to die. It is
of no significance to us whether that art be music,
or drama. literature, sculpture, architecture—if
voices in the night are urging him toward it, and
other concerns in the day occupy his hours. then
in the hours when he is free our problem is to
help him. To one the call may summon toward
the physical perfections of an ancient statue, to
another it may indicate that an engine to do his
will lies concealed in bits of wood and fragments
of metal and he must hew it out and give it be-
ing. Life challenges us in different ways, but
challenge us it does, and individually.

And ours is the province of encouraging re-
sponse to those challenges, each in his own voice
and manner. That is why we are insisting on
broader culture and greater spread of apprecia-
tion, in our personnel, as well as upon better meth-
ods. The absence of standardized methods as yet
is the best proof that we are working on this prob-
lem of technique. It shows that there is a trend
toward refining of it to which we are all respond-
ing. Each system of recreation is pioneering in
its own way, with its own means; the time for
assembling and synthesizing into a standardized
procedure is not yet; I trust we
will not atempt that for years to
come. There is still so much to
learn, so much to create, that we
must not trust our present views
for a long time yet. ,Meantime,
we are started, and I have no_
fear that we will not be kept
busy. i

'J

On the new trend toward scien-

tific research, public recreation

has barely embarked. But play

leaders are increasingly consci-

ous of their need not only for

accurate studies, but for critical
anhudes

The Trend in Our Studies

Research was a word almost never heard in
our early gatherings. It is always with us now.
And we are learning what it means. Our early
inquiries as this trend got under way were of
significance only as they indicated a new turn of
mind in our attitude toward our job. They lacked
everything. in precision. in method, in scientific
objectivity, which they should have to justify
themselves, or make their findings tenable even
as hypotheses. we started with an inundation
of questionnaires, and then we tried roughly to
introduce the principle of experiment with con-
trol groups. “R; wanted mass studies, and
thought if the procedure be clear enough that
anyone might assemble the findings. and they
would have a constant value. \Ve went into
preferences in activities, into memory of movies.
into reading, and a number of other subjects.
trying to trace curves and draw deductions from
them.

And we have learned things—if only what real
research means. I know of no system as yet
which has a real research department, but there
are several which are seriously considering the
matter. Here in the South Parks we have sev-
eral matters in mind—an experimental attempt
with the University and its advice, to see what
can be done with the recreation attack on some
of the problems of the pre-school child, for one.

In purely physical measurement and observa-
tion we have fared better, largely because it is
an easier field in which to set up criteria and
processes.

But it is significant that we are keeping pace
with the thought in older and better organized
Fields. The recent \Vhite House Conference, in
each of its sections, came back over and over to
the need for fact, determined by research. Our
profession feels the same need. And any group
is safer if it has deeply bedded in consciousness
a studious attitude.

\Ve trusted our feelings almost exclusively, a
few years ago. Our work appealed to our emo-
tions. Doubtless it does so still.
But we are newly, and increas-
ingly, conscious of our need of
critical attitudes; we do not still
consider the most extravagant
declaimer the best friend of the
recreation movement. In that
we feel that we have made a
gain of definite importance.

  
 

Amateur Arts in

a Machine Age _

By Chester Geppert Marsh

HE Recreation Movement is the twin sister
of the Machine Age. Both are the children

of Civilization. These children did not spring
to life, Minerva—like, from the brain of their
mighty parent. but, lusty and strong, they grew
and developed from a twin babyhood of steam
engines, electric lights and sand lot playgrounds
t0 the present day of radios, aerOplanes, fac-
tories, electrically equipped homes and a conse-
quent leisure filled with myriad interests planned
and organized by trained recreation leaders.

Most encouraging is the readiness with which
these leaders seize upon the problems presented
to them by machine made leisure. They are
sometimes slow to grasp the significance of the
problems and sometimes they fail to realize the
presence of the problems, but once realized, the
fervor with which they strive to meet them
is only equalled by the warm, human response
of an eager public.

Twenty years ago we saw children deprived
of play space—shady yards, barns, carriage
houses, lazy streets, flowing gutters—the Recre—
ation Movement in those days meant children’s
playgrounds. Later, we saw adolescent youth
deprived of grassy ball fields, old swimming
holes, romantic front porches, grape arbors and
home parties. To playgrounds, therefore, were
added athletic fields, swimming pools, and com—
munity houses.

Today, we find ourselves faced with adult
leisure, adult hunger for interests—deep human
interests that motivate daily life and make that
life richer and fuller. No longer does the home
provide opportunity for creative endeavor and

Courtesy Westchester Workshop

Park landscapes invite Westchester
County’s amateur sketch groups

physical activity. The homely chores have van—
ished. We should not mourn them. We should
rejoice that the pump, the woodshed, oil lamps,
bread baking, buttonholes, and hitching Old
Dobbin to the chaise no longer claim our time,
energy and interest. Machinery, thank Heaven,
has released us from these enforced activities and
given us time to develop interests that we may
freely choose. ‘

As soon as we realize this, as soon as we ac-
cept the fact that we do have leisure for the
things we really want to do, as soon as we under-
stand that we do not have to keep up with the
revolutions of the wheels and that we are ac-
tually free to choose our interests—then we have
taken the first step toward the great and, I be—
lieve, imminent American Renaissance.

The problem of the new adult leisure gives to
recreation leaders the greatest challenge of their
careers. Their vision must not be limited since
there is no limit to the possibilities before them.
They must keep up with the demands and needs
of a public whose discrimination is educated and
refined by the radio and the silver screen. This
public is no longer satisfied with watching life.
It wants to live. It has an insatiable curiosity
about everything—an eager desire to try every-
thing. This public is no longer satisfied with

67

68 A M A TE U16 x1 R TS

baseball bats, golf clubs, and swimming suits. It
has tried all of these, found them satisfactory.
but not wholly satisfying. It now wants musical
instruments, paint brushes, wet clay, writing ma-
terials, stages and appreciative audiences.

Music, drama and the arts are occupying an
ever increasing place in the recreation program.
This is as it should 'be. These are interests that
last as long as life lasts. They are limitless, de-
velopmental, and satisfying.

During the past ten years, recreation commis-
sions in all parts of the United States have or-
ganized choral groups, orchestras, bands, con-
certs and music festivals. In Westchester Coun-
ty. the annual Music Festival is not a single spor-
adic event. Each festi-
val is the culmination
of a year’s intense ac-
tivity—the result of the
combined efforts of
twenty-three difierent
community c h o r a 1
groups. These groups
enjoy the rehearsals not
only of the festival mu-
sic but weekly rehears-
als of from three to
four local concerts each.
Thus in one county
alone. the adult partici-
pation in musical
events, including the
Negro Spiritual Sing-
ers, numbers several
thousand singers and
more than a hundred
concerts.

Community d rama
and the Little Theatre
movement have not
only provided rich, vital
interests to adults—
they have had a very
definite effect upon the quality of play produced
by the commercial theatre. It has been noticeable
that during the past three years. the long run plays
on Broadway have been those that were wholesome
and human.

The drama opens many doors to recreational
interests. Acting, producing. play reading, play
writing, stage setting, costume design, lighting,
tournaments, and best of all, group companion—
ship and common interests.

 

Courtesy Playground Commission, San Francisco. Calif.

The graphic arts have but lately been accorded
a place in the recreation program. For some
years handicraft has been taught on the play-
grounds but arts and crafts for adults is an in-
novation of the past three years. \Vestchester
County has been making an experiment in this
field known as the VVestchester Workshop. Di-
vided into three departments, the Workshop
offers opportunity for creative activity and re-
search in the crafts, the arts and in nature study.

The response to this experiment.has proved
the need. In the six months of the VVorkshop’s
existence, the monthly
attendance has grown
to 1800 and is steadily
increasing. Inquiries
and requests pour in
daily and it is impos-
sible for the small staff
to meet the demands
made upon it.

Schools, both private
and public, organization
leaders, men’s and
women’s clubs are mak-
ing use of the \Vork-
shop classes. These
classes are attended by
business men, tired and
retired, shop girls.
clerks, industrial work-
ers. housewives who are
tired of bridge, mothers
who studied art in their
youth and “haven’t
touched a brush since
the children came,”
school teachers and pro-
fessional men and
women.

The classes are con-
ducted on 'a purely rec-
reational basis, to en-
courage the joy of creative activity. The leaders
are not so much interested in the thing created as
they are in the person creating. There are all day
sketching trips, exhibits. classes in painting, design,
cartooning. in weaving, leather tooling, bookbind-
ing. wood carving, metal craft, jewelry making.
chair caning, basketry, batik and other crafts. In
nature study, there are field trips, lectures, camera
clubs. classes in map making. exhibits, and even

(Continued on page 102)

A modern world still
bears the pipes of make-
beheve.

   
 

Courtesy Radburn Association, Radburn, N. J.

Recreation Planning

By john N oIen
City Planner, Cambridge, Massachusetts

States gave no thought to the problems of
recreation. It was not necessary. Those
cities were not crowded; their streets were not
menaced by the motor vehicle; their blocks were
not entirely built-up. There were many vacant
lots where the child might play, or if he desired,
he might consider the street his. play area, his
baseball diamond or his skating rink. But for-
tunate for him the chief means of getting about
was some form of animal transportation. He
romped and played in comparative safety. ‘
The next period might be considered the most
far-reaching because it is the nucleus of our
present park and playground system. In this
period industry was revolutionized; economic as
well as social conditions were changing. It was
an age of great reforms and of increasing wealth.
All of these factors led to an interest in parks
and playgrounds. Public spirited citizens began

THE early towns and cities in the United

 

   

A successful park and playground
system must relate to the city plan,
says Mr. Nolen, a pioneer in design-
ing neighborhoods that provide at-
tractively For recreation of all age
groups.

 
 
      
     
 

to give land to the city for recreational purposes.
They did not, however, supply the much needed
funds to carry out the work. It remained for
the municipal government to raise the funds and
to develop the park and playground. This they
were seldom able to do. The land remained often
in its original state, a playground in name only.

Gradually people began to realize that the city
was becoming densely populated. The laissez-
faire system of recreation was archaic. Another
period was in sight. No longer were there vacant
lots. The automobile had made its permanent
appearance. The old laws were no longer appli-
cable to modern economic and social conditions.
They justly accused their municipal governments
of weakness. Money was being spent for recrea-
tion, but unwisely. Some parts of the city were
served with play areas while other parts were
utterly neglected. Naturally, peOple, inspired by
outstanding leaders in this work, began to feel
that city planning and correct recreational facili-
ties were closely afhliated. Just as a City Plan is

69

70 GROIVING IMPORTANCE OF RECREATION

not complete without adequate park and play-
ground area, neither is a Park System a success
unless it has been carefully considered in relation
to the City Plan. Thus was evolved our modern
conception of the importance of recreation in
city planning.

We shall now turn to the various types of rec-
reation facilities included in the Modern Com-
prehensive City Plan and consider them from an
ideal point-of-view.

Types of Facilities

The first group to consider is that of Small
children, those under five years of age. If, in
single family house districts, proper areas have
been allowed for yard spaces. there will be no
necessity for providing special play areas for this
group of children. If, however, the district is so
congested that yard play areas are quite impos-
sible, the city planner has an alternative in the
interior block playground. This arrangement is
very valuable for small children because they are
not required to cross streets to reach it. The most
common type of recreation provision for the very
young is a special area set aside for them in the
playground of the elder children, and in neigh-
borhood playfield areas. Perhaps no feature is
more popular on a summer day for the very
young than the wading pool. The most sucess-
ful type is the circular pool of varying depth but
generally not over eighteen inches at the deepest
point. If, however, the outdoor swimming facili-
ties are limited, the wading-swimming pool may
be used to advantage. This type is best con-
structed to a uniform depth sufficient for swim-
ming. Part of the day it may be used as a wad-
ing pool and then it may be filled to a greater
depth and used as a swimming pool by the older
ones.

The largest group of children are those be-
tween the ages of five and fourteen years. This
group averages about 22 per cent of the total
population of the community and consequently
much attention must be given to their recrea-
tional facilities. “Probably playground areas for
this group,” writes Mr. L. H. Weir in his article
on “Standards in Planning for Recreation Areas,”
“should be as numerous as the grade schools and
junior high schools and their distribution should
coincide with the distribution of these schools.”
More and more, people are beginning to realize
that to have playgrounds connected with elemen-
tary and junior high schools is to economize in
both money and space. Schools in the ideal com-

munity are located within walking distance of
the pupils’ homes. This distance should prefer-
ably be not greater than one—quarter to one-half
mile from the school. This same walking dis-
tance is desirable for playgrounds. It therefore
seems logical to correlate or combine the two
areas. Of course, this may be impracticable in
the already built-up city because of too little va-
cant space in proximity to the school grounds.
However, if it is possible to obtain land, the size
of the joint area, according to the Annual Recrea-
tion Congress of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, should be a minimum total area of eight
acres for elementary schools and a minimum total
from ten to twenty acres for junior high schools.

Neighborhood Playfields

It is for the older boys and girls, the youth of
today, that neighborhood playfield areas have
been planned chiefly. It is quite evident that the
designing of these is more complex than the de-
signing of playgrounds because of the greater
variety of facilities to be provided and because
of the greater range of ages. Here are played
any number of outdoor 'games, such as volley
ball, basket ball, tennis, baseball, football, soccer
and others. It is therefore difhcult to lay down
any hard and fast rule as to the size of these
areas. They vary throughout the United States.
Some are as small as three or four acres while
others contain as many as a hundred acres.

The growing interest in the United States in
recreation for the young has naturally stimulated
an interest in recreation for adults. We now ap-
preciate the fact that outdoor recreation is abso-
lutely necessary for the welfare of both young
and old. For this reason existing municipal golf
courses, reservations, parkways and sports cen-
ters are being expanded and new ones provided
to meet the constantly enlarging and increasing
needs of a changing social order—a society in
which urbanization and mechanization have com-
bined to create many problems and to demand new
and varied avenues of expression.

To carry these varied recreational facilities to
a satisfactory completion, it is quite obvious that
the city must have a logical plan. Municipalities
complicated in structure and functions must turn
to the City Plan for advice. It is only through the
cooperation of the city planner, playground spe-
cialist and the city official that the municipality
can be assured of recreational facilities which
will satisfactorily meet the needs of the entire
city.

How It Began

By Henry S. Curtis, PhD.

The need to train leaders inspired
the first meeting of the play pi-
oneers, who, the next year, formed
a national body.

_ er in New York City a group of people
consisting of Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick,
Supt. Seth T. Stewart, Supt. Schauftler, James
B. Reynolds, Miss Curtis, Supervisor of Kinder-
gartens, Miss Jessie Bancroft, Supervisor of
Physical Education, and one or two others to
consider the question of organizing a course for
the training of those who were
working in the playgrounds.

This group held three meet—
ings in the Spring and Fall of
that year. On November 3,
1905, Dr. Gulick and I were
discussing the matter in his
room in Emerson Hall and
concluded that the attempt
would not succeed at present
and had better be dropped. At
that time he suggested that we
organize a National Playground Association.

After a short discussion this seemed very de-
sirable and Dr. Gulick wrote by hand a letter to
Joseph Lee asking if he would join with us in
the organization of an association and if he would
accept the Presidency. Both of us signed this
letter.

Mr. Lee suggested that there were already
many associations and that we should become a
committee of the American Civic Association.

After some further discussion we decided,
however, to go ahead with the organization of an
association. Dr. Gulick asked me to make out a
list of those who, I thought, should be the or-
ganizers of the association, which I did. I also
wrote each of them and saw the majority per-

D URIN G the winter of 1905 I called togeth-

Theodore Roosevelt, ardent
disciple of outdoor sport,
advised the Association's

founders in 1906 to give
children a large measure of
freedom in their play.

 

 

sonally, asking if they would come to an organ-
ization meeting in Washington in the Spring.

In February, 1906, I became
the Supervisor of Playgrounds
of the District of Columbia,
working with the Associated
Charities of the District. Mr.
Charles Weller was Secretary
of the Association and Wal-
lace Hatch was assistant. In
the l’inal arrangement for the
organization meeting, which
came on the 6th of April, both
were very helpful.

With Mr. Weller’s help I raised the funds
that were necessary for the organization meeting
and myself wrote the Constitution which was
submitted and adopted without change, except
that the name was changed from National Play-
ground Association to Playground Association
of America at the suggestion of Dr. Gulick. I
wrote into the Constitution that the Association
should hold an annual Play Congress, and that
it should publish a magazine to be known as “The
Playground.” These suggestions came to me
largely from the Central Game Committee of

Germany.
The first meeting was held in the Y. M. C. A.

at W'ashington. In the early afternoon, the dele-
(Continued on page 106)

71

Early Days of the Playground '

Association of America

By Howard Braucher

Secretary, National Recreation Association

' N April 12, 1906,
O the first organiza-
tion meeting of

the Playground Associa-
tion of America was held

in the Y. M. C. A. at
Washington, D. C. Dr.
Luther Halsey Gulick of
New York City was
elected President of the
organization. Dr. Henry
S. Curtis was elected Sec-
retary and Seth T. Stew-
art, Chairman of the
Executive Committee.

Some time prior to the Chicago Play Congress
held in June, 1907, President Roosevelt had
agreed to serve as Honorary President and Jacob
Riis had agreed to serve as Honorary Vice-Presi-
dent. The fact that Jacob Riis and President
Roosevelt were willing to lend their influence,
helped greatly throughout the country.

The following individuals were present at the
organization meeting held on April 12, 1906:

Sadie American, Mrs. Samuel Ammon, \Vil-
liam H. Baldwin, Henry S. Curtis. Mary E.
McDowell, Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, Walter
Hatch, Archibald Hill, Amelia Hofer, Marie Ruef
Hofer, Beulah Kennard, Dr. George M. Kober,
Commissioner H. S. MacFarland, Mrs. Ellen
Spencer Mussey, Myron T. Scudder, Seth T.
Stewart, Dr. Rebecca Stoneroad, and Charles F.
Weller.

Other individuals active in the work of the
Association during the first year according to the
minutes were:

Mrs. Tunis Bergen, Howard Bradstreet, \Vil-
liam Hamlin Childs, George \V. Ehler, Joseph
Lee, Mrs. Mary Simkhovitch, James G. Phelps

72

 

The founders at Washington. The policies they
shaped have proved sound through the years.

Stokes, and Felix \Var-
burg.

Jacob Riis was very
proud that his name was
on the letterheads of the
Association, side by side
with the name of his inti-
mate personal friend,
President Theodore
Roosevelt. Jacob Riis was
always ready to do any-
thing in his power to help
the new organization. His
bubbling enthusiasm and
his deep and abiding faith
in what play could do for his adopted country

was an inspiration for all who came in contact
with him.

Dr. Luther
Halsey Gulick
took up his
position as
President of
the Associa-
tion with en-
thusiasm dis-
playing great
energy and
resourceful-
n e s s . Dr.
Gulick’s per-
sonal qualities

 

Dr. Seth Thayer Stewart, first

were such, his editor of «The

ability as a

speaker, his vividness of description at private

interviews, his unfailing enthusiasm, all were such

that the new movement made a very great appeal

to the country. Dr. Gulick himself in public
(Continued on page 103)

Playground"

Early Days

 

The national staff in the days when everybody did anything. Abbie
Condit is fifth from the left in row one. Howard S. Braucher is in the
foreground, with James Edward Rogers and Arthur Williams directly
to his right. The first at the left in the back row is Lebert H. Weir, the
fourth from the left C. F. Stimson.

 

.. ,
" * s _
"M  _ w. . . . _ H a .3 _ y:  A.» f— .__A  ....» r  .w,..p~\._....v. Hyena“... A) r

—.n..... ‘ 4—-

Delegates to the 1908 Playground Congress off to inspect New York City's parks and playgrounds.
Joseph Lee, elected President in 1910, is in the second seat in the second row.

73

Speaking of Recreation

LONG, long ago it was said, “All
work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy,” yet the old axiom is just as true
today as ever, and whether the boy is
six months, six years, or I might even
say sixty years old, without recrea-
tion he cannot be
the well rounded
character which is
so necessary for
either boy or girl,
man or woman at
any time, but espe-
cially in our com-
plex life today.
\Ve all agree
that there is no
greater factor in
the development of
a child's character
than play. How
quickly and easily he learns through

the “rules of the game" (as he never
would through advice or “preaching”)
what it is to be a good sport, to play
fair, to take defeat cheerfully and man-
fully, and victory with modesty and
joy! He learns team work and how to
give to the thing in hand the best that
is in him. Many other worthwhile les-
sons are his before he realizes it,—
things that may, perhaps, help him to

make a living; certainly they help to
make a life.

Mrs.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion has been going forward through
the years proposing "that everybody
in America, young or old, shall have
an opportunity to find the best and
most satisfying use of leisure time,”
and more and more are we seeing the
wisdom of this high ideal and how
splendidly the organization is moving
towards its accomplishment. I am
placing the contribution of this Asso-
ciation to American life among the
foremost in the nation, and on this, its
twenty-fifth birthday, am wishing for
it many more years of useful service
to the people of this country.

Sincerely yours,

Mas. JOHN F. SIPPEL,

President, General Federation
of Women’s Clubs.

74

 

John F. Sippel

San Juan, P. R.

PERHAPS among the greatest de-

velopment of modern civilization is
the non-profit organization which works
interestedly and at its own expense for
the good of the community. None, in

my opinion, fills a
greater or more
useful sphere than
the National Rec-
reation Associa-
tion. It embodies
the great modern
concept that proper
recreation, prOper-
1y indulged in, is as
necessary an attri-
bute to effective,
decent work as
food or sleep. Far
too often the com-
munity thinks of play as play, and
nothing else, not realizing that it is a
necessity and has productive value.
Right here in Porto Rico we do not
have recreational opportunities. \Ve

 

Theodore Roosevelt

have not proper parks, we have not
proper athletic fields, we have not
proper organizations to give our
young people a grounding in health-
building and character-building out-
door recreation that they should have.
This is normal, for we are so con-
cerned now with the bare problem of
existence for many of them,—obtain-
ing the food necessary to keep soul
and body together, obtaining medi-
cines to check the ravages of disease,
that we have had but scant time to
turn to other matters. \Ve are, how-
ever, doing what we can, and I am
counting on the aid of the National
Outdoor Recreation Association to
help us in this work.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT,
Governor of Porto Rico.

 

Mrs. A. H. Reeve

FOR the past ten years it has been my

privilege to have direct interest in
and contact with the work of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, and to
have received help and inspiration
from its wise administration and its
stimulating activi-
ties. It is a great
pleasure to join the
host of its friends
on this "silver" an-
niversary in con-
gratulating the as-
sociation upon a
quarter of a cen-
tury of notable
achievement, 0 f
truly national ser-
vice, and in wish-
ing it increasing
success in its prog-
ress toward the “golden” celebration

of 1956.

As editor for seven years of a na-
tional magazine, and as president for
five of those years of the organization
of which it was the voice, the gener-
ous and complete cooperation received
from the then Playground and Recre-
ation Association of America made
possible the introduction of recreation
to thousands to whom it had previ-
ously been but an unfamiliar word.
Now as director of the rural work of
the same organization for child wel-
fare, the need, not only for the con-
tinuance of this cOOperation but for
its extension throughout the rural
field is strikingly evident to me. The
country calls for leadership in recrea-
tion, but equally will it profit by the
discovery and development of local
ability in that line—in other words,
for the professional training of the
rural volunteer.

From the whole international field
comes the call for such service as the
National Recreation Association is of-
fering, and to you we look confidently
for that practical idealism which will
teach the world how to make. wise
use of its leisure.

MARGARETTA WILLIS Reeve

President, International Federation

of Home and School.

Mr. Joseph Lee,

Pres., National Recreation Association,

New York City.
DEAR Joe:

In leading this country as far and
as fast as it could be dragged towards
playfulness in the last quarter century
you’ve done far more than increase
our fun. You have
brought us appre-
ciably nearer to
I e s u 5’ command
that we become as
little children,—
even in the cities
where we do all we
can in other ways
to cancel the child—
like and child-lov-
ing side of our
lives. You have
done much toward
debunking our sol-
emn pseudo-scientific psychology most
of which is in fact the shadow of our
dulness. \Vhen you preside over a
meeting or write a circular or make
an address even the forms of pomp-
ous procedure get cracked and bent
into sincerity,—for you have done
much to show that our stupid formal-
ities are not only dull but fraudulent.
People pretend to be solemn and im-
posing because they are so low spirited
and can cover it up most successfully
by being “serious.”

Art and play are miles apart, I
think, but you have managed success-
fully to smuggle in under the guise of
play a lot of good art which people
never would have taken to under its
own name. That was, I guess, one of
your little jokes, like that other pretty
little trick of yours,—-calling work a
subvariety of play. Certainly you
have put it over on us and made us a
far; less staid and grave generation
than the previous. In your next
quarter-century I fully expect to see
you prove that the Harvard Law
School and the Mass. Historical So-
ciety are in fact only gigantic play—
houses where men play hide and seek
with precedents and hunt the colonial
slipper. More power to your dancing
mind. Can’t you start a society for
the cultivation of play among econo-
mists and psychologists. If you could
slip in a mustard seed’s worth of hu-
mor into these laborious groups your
generation would crown you afresh.

Affectionately,

RICHARD C. CABOT

President, National Conference
of Social Work.

 

Richard C. Cabot

SPEAKING OF RECREATION

National Recreation Association,

315 Fourth Ave.,
New York City.

THE splendid work which has been
done by your organization is worthy

of highest commendation and to you,
on your 25th anniversary, may I pre-
sent the hearty appreciation of the
National Congress
of Parents and
Teachers. We, who
have received
splendid coopera—
tion from you and
your officers extend
our congratulations
and thanks.

T h e P a r e nt-
Teacher :Associa-
tion are deeply
grateful for the
stimulation given
for the recreational
activities of their groups. We believe
in your philosophy of living, and feel
that it is helping us greatly to have
happier homes and more wholesome
communities.

 

Mrs. Minnie B. Bradford
May the cooperation between our
national organizations long continue,
and may your success in the future,
as in the past, bear fruit in the homes
and communities of our nation.
Cordially yours,
MRS. MINNIE B. BRADFORD,
President, National Congress
of Parents and Teachers.

 

William Green

75

National Recreation Association,
315 Fourth Ave.,
New York City.

RECREATION is essential to phys-

ical and mental health and well be-
ing. As modern life is organized, the
average individual depends in a large
degree upon public recreation services,
administered in the
interests of the
public.

Such services
should provide for
the recreational
services of all ages
and all interests.
No education is
complete that does
not help the indi-
vidual to find con-
structive uses for
leisure, and it is
the function of rec-
reation services to enable individuals
and groups to have opportunities for
following their interests.

The American Federation of Labor
has found it most satisfactory to co-
operate with the National Recreation
Association for the establishment of
recreation opportunities where all
might have equal opportunity and con-
sideration.

Recreation and leisure may be
powerful forces for physical and spir-
itual regeneration and for keeping the
tide of life running eagerly and con-
structively all the way.

WILLIAM GREEN
President,
American Federation of Labor.

We realize afresh that it is the bus-
iness of youth to reafiirm the beauty

and joy in the world that such spon-
taneity may become a source of new

vitality, a wellspring of refreshment to

a jaded city.

JANE ADDAMS.

 

THE American Legion

has been fortunate to
have the continuous co—
operation of the Nation-
al Recreation Associa-
tion in the youth activi-
ties which the Legion
sponsors and promotes.
The progress of this
Legion program can be
credited in a great part
to the influence extend-

 

Ralph T. O'Neil

ed by the national asso-
ciation to induce local
recreation departments
and other groups in
such endeavors to work
in behalf of the Legion’s
junior baseball plans
and playgrounds efforts.
The association has
bee n instrumental in
helping the Legion
(Cont’d on page 109)

Play and Printers' Ink

By Abbie Condit

National Recreation Association

HE other day I visited the oculist. One of
Tthe questions he asked in the course of the

examination was, “In what year were you
born ?” When I answered promptly and without
trace of wrath or irritation, he heaved a sigh of
relief and said “Asking that question is the hard-
est thing I have to do.” Said I, “You needn’t
have been nervous about asking me that. \Vhen
you have been working for one organization for

twenty years there’s no use trying to pretend you
are sweet sixteen.”

One privilege the aged can claim is that of
reminiscing.

Looking back twenty years, I remember first
of all the small group of workers occupying a
limited space in the metropolitan building. There
was one room, reasonably large, for the staff.
Adjoining it was a smaller room which served as
the secretary’s office. A stock room completed
our suite. There were perhaps a half dozen
workers. There were no “departments” in those
days; specialization was unknown. \Ve all did
the things which had to be done, whatever they
happened to be and each of us had a varied
assortment of tasks. Often we all stayed late
mailing the letters of appeals which were to
bring us the funds for the much needed field sec-
retary. And our labors were rewarded, for
eventually that first field secretary came, and
then a second and a third—and an important
milestone had been passed.

Recollections of those early days bring back
vividly the picture of Dr. Luther Gulick, the first
president of the Playground Association. Dr.
Gulick, who was then associated with the Russell
Sage Foundation, had beC0me greatly interested
in the theory that as long as air was kept in cir-
culation there was no reason whatever for having
fresh air. The Playground Association became
his research station, and he would hermetically
seal all our windows, start the electric fans. and
return occasionally to see how many of us were
surviving!

76

The litera-
ture which the
Association is-
sued in those
days could not
be called pro-
fuse, but it has
stood the test
of time. There were at first pamphlets, few in
number, but far flung in their use and influence.
Joseph Lee’s Play and Playgrounds; George E.
Johnson’s Games Every Boy and Girl Should
K now; Allen T. Burns’ Relation of Playgrounds
to Juvenile Delinquency; Can a Child Survive
Civilisation? by Dr. Woods Hutchinson; Joseph
Lee’s Home Playground; IVhy lVe Wont Play-
grounds, by Charles Evans Hughes; George E.
Johnson’s l'Vhy Teach a Child to Play? these are
a few of the addresses from the first Recreation
Congresses which in pamphlet form aided many
local groups in focusing
attention on the need for
playgrounds. There are
playgrounds in the coun-
try which owe their ex-

(Cont. on page 108)

i

814?

Recreation literature,

early and late, is re-
viewed by Miss Condit,
who heads the N.R.A.

Publications Bureau.

The Association's ex-
penditure was 241
times greater in 1930

than in its first year,
1907.

(«WWW

@(MQWMCWMW
WCMMKMW

@

1907- $|687.02. l930 ~6406,

L3

Drumming for Playgrounds

The first salesman‘of
recreation points some
contrasts.

By Lee F. Hanmer
Russell Sage Foundation

u ' PPROPRIATE govern-
A ment money to teach
children to play! Why
don’t you ask for an appropria-
tion to teach fishes to swim?” .
That was the comment of a U. S.
Congressman back in the dark
ages when we began to pr0pose
that children’s playgrounds be
provided and supervised at pub—
lic expense. It is a far cry in playground history
from that day to this—41 communities having
some sort of playgrounds then, chiefly supported
by private contribution; and about 1,000 now,
largely provided by public appropriations. The
National Recreation Association was just begin-
ning then as the Playground Association of Amer-
ica with one lone field secretary, dubbed “the play-
ground drummer,” and borrowed from the Russell
Sage Foundation. Now the Association has a
force of fourteen field secretaries and specialists
in games, dramatics, music, home recreations, play
in institutions, rural recreation, athletics for girls
and women, play areas in real estate subdivisions,
play and physical education, recreation research,
and a national recreation school.

The Playground Association of America ante-
dated the Russell Sage Foundation by about a
year; but the Foundation was not long in taking
notice of this promising youngster in the family
of agencies for “improving social and living con-
ditions in America,” and agreed to help it learn
to walk alone. Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, Direc-

tor of Physical Education for the public schools
of New York City, was serving as the first presi-

 

< i - P ‘ I . ‘  i “is
_ _ g . I .2  _ .I  I”  p H a.
1' . '

Cmrrtesy Piedmont, Calif" Recreation Department

Many of our present playgrounds were won through
the persistent efforts of national field workers

dent of this young association which had been

organized April 12, 1906, in Washington, D. C.
The Foundation invited him in October, 1907,
to become the chairman of a playground exten-
sion committee which it proposed to create and to
devote a substantial part of his time to promoting
the work of the Association. It was my good for-
tune to be associated at that time with Dr. Gulick
as Inspector of Athletics for the New York City
schools and to be invited to join him as secretary
of the Committee and eventually field secretary
of the Association.

Dr. Henry S. Curtis, the director of play-
grounds in Washington, D. C., was one of the
founders of the Association and was made its
Secretary. Grace Parker was engaged as finan-
cial secretary on an underwriting by Russell
Sage Foundation, and the team then went to
work.

Joseph Lee, who later became the worthy suc-
cessor to Dr. Gulick in the presidency of the Asso-
ciation, had helped to demonstrate the value of
playgrounds for children in Boston. Chicago,
under the leadership of E. B. DeGroot, had
launched its wonderful South Park system

77

78 DR UJ-IMING FOR PLA YGRO UNDS

of playgrounds, swimming pools and field
houses. These achievements, together with
modest beginnings in several other scattered
cities, were used to inspire citizens’ organizations
and a few municipalities to make beginnings in
planning for play and athletics for their own
boys and girls.

It seems all very crude as we look back upon it
now, and the program was replete with “trial
and error,” but there is no discounting the earn—
estness and devotion of the men and women of
the Association and the local committees who did
the pioneering in the face of many difficulties
and often of ridicule such as is indicated in the
first words of this reminiscent sketch.

Most people had no idea what a children’s
playground looked like. To make a beginning, the
Association set up one in connection with the
Jamestown Exposition in Virginia in 1907 and
carried on a program of play activities with the
cooperation of the local public schools. This ex-
hibit was organized by Dr. Curtis and paid for by
the Russell Sage Foundation. Many visitors saw
and were converted, and went back home resolved
to do something about it for their communities.

Dr. Myron T. Scudder, Principal of the State
Norma] School at New Paltz, New York, and
one of the founders of the Association, made
for us, with the help of his pupils, a model of a
school playground on a scale of about one foot
to ten feet, and equipped it with miniature play—
ground apparatus and dolls for children. This
was first shown at a state teachers’ convention in
Albany, New York, and subsequently traveled
over a good part of New England and the east-
ern, middle and southern states. It had a place
among the exhibits of a national convention of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs in
New Orleans, La. The local clubs of that organ—
ization and the Parent—Teachers’ groups were of
inestima'ble assistance to the Association in its
early days, and have continued to be
among its strongest allies.

Financing Landmark

A notable landmark in the financing
of the Association was a dinner at the
\Valdorf—Astoria in honor of Mrs.
Humphry Ward of England, who
happened to be in this country in 1908,
and who had done some outstanding
work for children’s play in her country.
Grace Parker, with the assistance of

 

 

Dr. Gulick and a special committee, organized an
occasion that attracted many of the most influential
people of New York City and vicinity. It was our
most effective method of “broadcasting” in those
days. The newspapers were generous of their
space in reporting the dinner and in enlarging
upon this new type of social welfare with its
compelling appeal, because it was for children.
It was not so
very long
after this that
Miss Parker
came to my
(1 e s k 0 n e
morning after
opening her
mail, and said,
“I wonder if
I am seeing
straight this
m o r n i n g .
\Vhat do you
in a k e o u t
those figures
to be ?”, and
placed before
me a check
for $25,000.
T h i S w a s
hardly typical
of each morning’s mail, but other money did con-
tinue to come in, so that the underwriters of the
financial work were not called upon to make up
any deficit.

George E. Johnson, whose phil-
osophy aided the young movement

International Study Made

Dr. Gulick was eager to take advantage of all
progress that had been made in organized play
for children. In addition to contacting with the
best that American cities could offer, he sent his
field secretary to Europe or to find out
what Great Britain, France, Holland,
Denmark, Germany and other coun-
tries had done. Germany was rich in
practical suggestions for school and
neighborhood playgrounds, municipal
playing fields. and time allotted for their

Only 3,764 leaders of recreation

were employed in 1909, the first
year for which figures are available.

 

DRUMMING FOR PLAYGROUNDS 79

use in the school program. Probably the most
effective aid in working with local organizations
and municipal authorities was the force of example
of other communities. Lantern slides used in
addresses and loaned for use by local groups, told
the story graphically and convincingly.

One of the most stimulating instances of-drastic
municipal action in providing playgrounds in neg-
lected areas was the establishment of Seward Park
Playground on the lower east side in New York
City.

Under the inSpiring leadership of Jacob Riis,
then a newspaper reporter, public sentiment was
so aroused that the city authorities purchased sev-
eral blocks of tenement houses covering nearly
two acres at a cost of about a million dollars per
acre, razed the buildings, and laid out a play—
ground for children. It was a fabulous price in
those days—1903-——and an unheard of expendi—
ture of municipal funds for such a purpose.

A lantern slide picture of this playground and its
surroundings, and a recital of the circumstances
that brought it about, never failed to challenge
attention and serious concern. The older cities
were stirred to action and the newer ones resolved
to forestall developments that would result in con-
ditions requiring such drastic action. So the force
of example did effective work.

Converts were secured more
rapidly than were local resources
and competent organizers and
play leaders. To help in develop-
ing the technique of this new
craft, district institutes were con—
ducted to which delegates from
the cities of groups of states came
for several days of intensive dis—
cussion and training. The few
capable and experienced play
leaders were pressed into service
as instructors. Out of this
evolved an effort to compile a
document of practical suggestions
for recreation workers, and to en-
courage training schools to pro-
vide more courses for those who
wished to prepare themselves for
this work. This took form in
the “Normal Course in Play”
published by the Association.
Now the Association has its own
excellent training center in New
York City known as the National
Recreation School Incorporated.

 

To this school come young men and young women
from all parts of the United States to prepare
themselves for administrative positions in public
recreation.

The excellent work done by George E. Johnson,
as the executive of the Playground Association of
Pittsburgh, led the Association to hold its annual
meeting in that city in 1909. It was a notable
occasion in many respects, but most important
of all for the Association and for the cause of chil—
dren’s play and the subsequent development of
public recreation, is the fact that it was the meet-
ing at which Joseph Lee was proposed for the
presidency of the Association and Howard S.
Braucher began his work with the Association as
its forthcoming executive secretary. Mr. Lee was
elected president at the next Congress in Roches-
ter, N. Y. The Playground Association of Amer—
ica had established itself, and was ready to be-
come the Playground and Recreation Association
of America and eventually the National Recrea-
tion Association and to enter upon its broad and
splendid mission of service to the children, the
youth and the adults of the nation.

The spirit and practical idealism of the
N'tional Recreation Association is expressed in
a paragraph from its annual report for 1930: “To
meet the increased demands upon
it, the Association has added
many services and departments.
Now, at the beginning of a sec-
ond quarter century of service,
with society confronted by the
immense opportunity of a rapid-
ly growing spare time, the Asso-
ciation faces its greatest challenge
and one that will put a greater
demand upon its financial and
human resources than it has ever
faced before.”

By 1929, the number of leaders
employed had risen to 22,920,

and standards of training had
broadened immeasurably.

 

Twenty-Five Years of Progress in

Recreation Legislation

By Arthur Williams

National Recreation Association

HE establishment of children’s playgrounds
in the larger metropolitan centers of the

country, which were the first steps taken in
the development of the present recreation move-
ment, did not require general state legislation.
Most of these larger metropolitan centers had
home rule charters which would

ress could be made only as broader powers for
the localities could be secured through state
enabling acts. At that time the type of legisla-
tion needed was carefully studied and the Asso-
ciation furnished a special service to the localities
in different states to help them secure the state

recreation legislation needed in

permit them to establish play-
grounds through local legislation
or each city secured a special act
of legislation relating only to it-
self. As the advisability of es-
tablishing children’s playgrounds
in other than the larger metro-
politan centers became apparent,
there was a need for general state
legislation throughout the states
to establish playground work. An
outstanding example of the early
type of recreation was the Massa-
chusetts playground referendum
bill for cities and towns of over

Public support of playgrounds
and recreation, with legal sanc-
tion by state and city, has rap-
idly replaced drives, tag days
and other means of private sup-

ort. Twenty-one states now
have recreation enabling laws.
Through popular vote, com-
munities in twelve of these states,
which have referendum features
in their laws, may quickly se-
cure a tax-supported recreation
system under leadership. City
plan and zoning legislation
work hand in hand with recrea-
tion laws to insure provision for

future play spaces.

their states. This broader legisla-
tion which the Association helped
to work out and promote was first
passed in 1917. It permitted
states to cary on recreation pro-
grams with full-time, trained, ex-
perienced and paid leadership. It
had a number of broader features
than previous legislation, but its
outstanding feature was that it
permitted for the first time by
special state wide recreation leg-
islation, the development of a
broad program of activities for
all ages and groups throughout

10,000 which was passed in 1908.

School Center Legislation

The next general type of state legislation gener-
erally promoted in different states was school legis-
lation to permit the use of school buildings as com-
munity centers. \Vhen the field service of the Na-
tional Recreation Association was first established
more than 20 years ago, the need for broad recrea-
tion legislation in the different states was not ap-
parent as the service given in the earlier days was
given to the larger cities where local authority
could be secured through charter amendment or
through other ways of taking advantage of the
home rule powers of the first class cities. How-
ever, as soon as the Association started to serve
other than the larger cities throughout the coun-
try, it found that effective help and effective prog-

80

the entire year. It provided for
the administration of the work by different local
governmental units such as park boards, school
boards and separate recreation commissions, so
that each locality could have the freedom of
working out its recreation administration problems
in accordance with the special local conditions
which should be taken into consideration in such
planning. Several cities had earlier legislation
authorizing the expenditures of funds for play
and recreation activities and for the employment
of leadership, but these laws were restricted to
permitting some one particular branch of the local
government to administer the work. In some states
the laws provided for the school board to conduct
such work but no other agency; in other states the
park boards could do this work but no other
agency.

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS OF PROGRESS IN RECREATION LEGISLATION 81

At the present time the following 21 states
have recreation enabling laws secured with the
aid of the Association, which permit localities
broad powers in planning their recreation work
and in conducting it:

Connecticut Louisiana
Georgia New Jersey
Illinois New York
Iowa North Carolin:
Florida Ohio

Indiana Pennsylvania
Kentucky Rhode Island
Massachusetts Utah

Michigan Virginia

New Hampshire Vermont

West Virginia

Referendum Tax Legislation

In inore recent years the Association has found
that many local governments would like to have
the support of their voters before establishing
recreation work and would also like to have the
financial freedom which comes through a special
tax, so that work established could be so estab—
lished without diverting funds from existing mu-

nicipal services and thus decreasing their effec—
tiveness. This has

led to the passage
of referendum tax
.. legislation in a num—
. 0" ber of states, which
provides for a city to
establish playground
and recreation work
upon the favorable vote of the people of a locality
and the levying of a special tax to finance it when
such tax is approved by the voters. The Associa—
tion helped to work out these newer legislative
features and has helped also in securing passage
of this type of supplementary legislation in the
following 12 states:

 

Public recreation expendi-
tures in l906——$904,000

Florida New York
Georgia North Carolina
Illinois Ohio

Indiana Vermont

Iowa Virginia

New Jersey West Virginia

In considering the legal powers which localities
have for the development of adequate year round
recreation systems, it is essential to keep in mind
that such powers are derived not only from spe—
cial legislation but from powers granted to local

     

 

Public recreation’s money-bag

in 1929 held $33,539,805

school boards in school codes, from powers
granted to park boards and from general police
and public welfare powers granted localities in
general codes. The present trend in many states
throughout the country to pass more and more
liberal general home rule bills delegating more
and more of their state powers to the localities
has a real bearing in the consideration of the
present recreation legislation situation.

For example, in Texas any community of 5,000
or more can establish an adequate year round
recreation prOgram through charter amendment,
because of the general home rule legislation which
has been passed in Texas, although no special
recreation enabling act conferring broad recrea-
tion administrative powers upon localities has
been passed in Texas.

It is important to keep in mind in connection
with recreation legislation the whole field of city
plan legislation, 'because of the positive effect
which city plan legislation and zoning legislation
can have in the proper planning of communities
for recreation as well as for traffic, sanitation and
housing.

Need for Study

There has been no recent careful study of rec—
reation legislation in the different states although
different groups and individuals have from time
to time studied more or less intensively particu-
lar sections of the recreation legislative field.

(Continued on page 111)

 

are"-

Courtesy Union County Park Commission

Park Recreation
By L. H. Weir

Field Secretary, National Recreation Association

FROM the middle of the

last century down to its

close the typical city
park was a kind of outdoor
municipal parlor. The smaller
park areas were generally en-
closed and the people restric-
ted to the walks and the seats
along the walks. “Keep Off
the Grass” signs were numer-
ous and conspicuous. The
larger parks in addition to
walks often had bridle paths, carriage driveways,
and occasionally some facilities for boating and
other physical activities. Special floral displays
were fairly frequent. A very few of the larger
parks had collections of native and exotic fauna
for the entertainment and instruction of the peo-
ple. A still fewer number attempted scientifically
arranged collections of Hora. Now and then a
natural history museum or an art gallery might
be found in a park. Picnicking and community
celebrations under careful restrictions were per-
mitted in some parks. Band concerts were
allowed.

There was no definite attempt to promote or
direct active uses of the areas. Even in connec-
tion with such instructional features as 2005 and
collections of flora no serious attempt was made to
use them as instructional centers. The executive
ofiicer of the park department was usually chosen
for his knowledge of horticulture and landscape

82

Public parks, once sacred to hor-
ticulture, now serve a variety of
human uses, says Mr. Weir, who
directed the recent national study
of city and county parks. The

"Keep Off the Grass" sign has

vanished. Sports, nature study and
art programs invite the people to
the parks for active and inspiring
use of leisure.

 

gardening. Park governing
authorities were as a rule es-
pecially interested in the horti-
cultural and landscape fea—
tures of the parks. The
maximum social uses of the
areas were considered of sec-
ondary consequence. In large
p a r k systems engineering
problems were of course given
much consideration.

A park system was con-
ceived to be chiefly a series of large properties
connected by sublimated streets called boulevards
or by genuine parkways with smaller intown
properties as an incidental and often an undesired
feature of the system.

The origin of this conception of parks and park
systems is not difficult to understand. The early
proponents of parks were landscape artists and
the citizens who became interested in parks were
generally interested in horticulture and the artistic
arrangement of plants. Hence the art side of
park planning and creation became a dominant
motive in this form of civic development. Euro—
pean examples of parks may have influenced ideas
as to park functions in this country also. Parks
were works of art and as such they must be pro-
tected against the public as much as possible. In
many cases the materials out of which parks were
fashioned became of more importance than human
uses for which they were intended. The concep-

PARK RECREA TI ON 83

tion of a park as a work of
art was, and is, a high and
worthy one. The early park
planners and builders would
have done well to have
stood on this platform
alone. However, some of
them formulated and elab-
orated a social phi1050phy
in relation to the functions
of parks, which was sooner
or later to bring the pure
art conception into conflict
with a series of intensive
and extensive social uses of
park areas; and the early
planners saw the tendency
toward the urbanization of the people already well
pronounced in the 60’s, 70’s and 80’s.

The Machine Age Brings Changes

The new industry causing this urbanization
created much that was ugly; much conges—
tion of people; polluted the atmosphere with
smoke and dust; destroyed plant life; re-
moved the people from direct contact with the
soil and growing things; induced nervous strains
by reason of monotony, noise, confinement in-
doors and high speed effort. The hours of labor
were long. The park planners of that day con—
ceived the idea that urban people so afflicted
should have open spaces to which to escape where
the air was reasonably pure, where peace and
quietness prevailed and where there was an abun—
dance of plant life arranged in beautiful designs.
They asserted such places were for the re-crea-
tion or “recreation” of the pe0ple but at the same

Courtesy Dept. of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y.

 

 

Courtesy Dept. of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y.
This versatile cement area. in Fort
Greene Park, Brooklyn, is used for tennis

time defined recreation as the pleasure or happi-
ness coming from the peaceful contemplation of
an idealized rural landscape. This art gallery
conception of park planning and building pre-
vailed for five or six decades and became so fixed
as a principle that when the social philos0phy ex—
pounded by the early planners began to be inter—
preted with wider implications, a hue and cry
was raised that irreparable injury would be done
the parks if the pe0ple were allowed to use them
in ways different from the traditional conception.

By the close of the century, however, times had
greatly changed. The factory type of industry
had increased enormously—an increase to be still
more marked during the next two decades.
Urbanization of the people progressed with paral-
lel rapidity. All the evils mentioned by the early

And here a dance attracts young
people of the neighborhood.

"0.
p

 

  

84 PARK RE CRE A TI ON

Courtesy Dept. of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y.

School girls stage a jacks
contest on the same cement

park planners, growing out of this removal of
the peOple from the soil, were intensified and
others were made manifest. Hours of labor
began to be shortened and labor saving devices
multiplied, giving the pe0ple increased leisure. A
people keyed by their work habits to intense ac-
tivity were not content to merely contemplate the
beauties of their open recreation spaces. More-
over, the new psychology began to teach that there
was no growth, no deveIOpment, no life to be had
from the peaceful contemplation of anything. To
do was to live. The increase of automatic or
semi-automatic machinery in the new industry
more and more cramped creative expression
among workers. If the varied powers, capacities
and interests of each person were to find expres-
sion, the opportunity must come chiefly through
the use of leisure hours. As a consequence of

While in cold weather it
is flooded for skating

 

Courtesy Dept. of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y.

 

these conditions and of the
new psychological teachings,
new demands began to be
made on the only existing
recreation institution, the
parks and the park depart-
ments. Slight changes in
park services were manifest
here and there as early as
the eighties and nineties but
it was not until the begin-
ning of the present century
in South Park, Chicago,
that almost revolutionary
changes in park services
were inaugurated.

Park Service Increase

Since that epoch-making period in park history
in Chicago there has been a gradual evolution in
park deve10pment throughout the United States.
This evolution has always been toward a broader
conception of services. Park planning is now
ranked as one of the most fundamental and im-
portant phases of general city planning. Types
of prOperties have multiplied, each more or less
distinguished by special functional uses. Green
acreage of Open spaces has markedly increased in
nearly all progressive cities: The standard of the
amount of Open space to a given number of peo-
ple is constantly rising. No less marked has been
the change in design of the different types of
areas.

The early park planners would look with
amazement on the varied equipment for activities
in the modern park not excepting the large land-

(Continucd on page 101)

 

Public Recreation and Leisure

By Will R. Reeves

Director Public Recreation Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio

goal of man from the beginning of recorded

time. For the relatively few, that happiness
has been achieved through the accumulation of
wealth, the rise of power, and acknowledged
authority, preeminence in any field of human en-
deavor, or the creation through brain and hand
of poetry, music, painting, sculpture, and archi-
tecture; in other words, through that sense of
satisfaction that comes from a definite and ac-
knowledged assertion of personality over and
above one’s fellows.

For the multitude, the pursuit of happiness has
been largely confined to the doing of the work
necessary to provide meat, covering and shelter,
and to the simple and fundamental expressions
of personality that take place in the family or
clan through the nurture and protection of de-
pendents, and through participation in traditional
folk games.

Leisure as a potential gateway to happiness,
joyousness, a sense of achievement, the serenity
of mind that is the result of fundamental and
inherent urges satisfied, has always been enjoyed
by the rich and powerful. Not until the present
age, however, do we find leisure enjoyed in such
time quantities ‘by all peOpIe. The reasons for
this are well known and widely discussed.

. Most of us have merely accepted this new boon
to mankind, paying little or no attention to the
use which we have been led
to make of it by the relative-
ly small group interested only
in exploiting leisure time for
its own profit. While com-
mercialized recreation is said
to be the fourth largest in-
dustry in the country, society
as a whole, through its
various governmental units
has only made a beginning in

T HE pursuit of happiness has been the chief

his fellows;

The recreation program for the
new leisure must fulfill man’s
desire to sing, play and act with

to commune with

himself in quiet places away from

the world of machines

 

Swift and common action
can redeem our growing

leisure for human happiness
and satisfaction in life.

the use of leisure time as an investment in human
values.

Due to the empirical emphasis placed on the
leisure time of the American soldier in the World
War, and the excellent results obtained there-
from, and the consequent increasing recognition
of leisure time as a potentially constructive or
destructive social force by educators, social work—
ers, public officials, and some business executives,
the use of leisure time is gradually coming to be
accepted as one of the major problems that must
be solved by swift and common action if it is to
be redeemed from its present wideSpread use
as a destructive element in our social life.

There is no denying that due in part to the
emphasis on commercialized forms of recreation
we have become a pleasure—loving, excitement-
craving, entertainmentgoing people, and that all
classes are expending a large percentage of in-
come on entertainment that titillates the nerves,
excites the imagination, or vicariously fills an
emotional need, rather than on leisure time ac-
tivities that are contributing
factors to health and real hap-
piness.

What restless, highly
strung, nervous Americans
need much more than this
pouring-in process constantly
going on around us, is a pour—
ing-out process through ac-
tual participation in activities
that will provide outlets for

85

86 PUBLIC RECREATION AND LEISURE

bottled—up aspirations, desires, energies, and emo-
tions; that will release through amateur music,
amateur dramatics, amateur sports and playfield
activities, certain natural forces which, denied re-
lease, become forces that work for unrest, un-
happiness, and ugliness of life.

“All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy” is truer today than when it was first written.
The adventure in work today, the sense of
achievement, is limited to the few who plan, con-
trol and direct. Even the so-called professions
are so specialized and standardized that the “run
of the mine” holder of a qualifying certificate or
diploma finds his interest in leisure time out—
weighing his interest in work time, because his
leisure time is becoming more and more to be
the only time he can do or try to do what he
actually wants to do, not what he is forced to do
in order to make a living.

It would seem that the right to play—for play’s
sake——can be determined if we are willing to
agree that the “purusit of happiness” is still the
great motivating force in the life of man, and
that due to present day work-environment and
conditions, most of us do not and cannot End that
happiness in work hours. This is particularly
true in the case of the average individual between
the ages of sixteen and twenty-five or thirty,
when the blood runs fast and red, when life is
still an adventure, when a thrill or a “kick” must
be found somehow, somewhere, when life’s real
interests are generally projected outside the
school, shop, store, office, factory, to the time we
can call our own. It is then only we have the
right to try to be what is denied us while we are
doing our share of keeping this workaday world
going. Because of economic circumstances, what
most of us do in this free time depends in large
measure on the opportunities afforded in the city
of today. If that city life prohibits human ac-
tivities that are age old, that have always acted
as outlets for human enthusiasm, exuberance of
spirits, energy and ambition — then working
together we must see to it that opportunities for
those activities are given back to our citizens,
young and old.

Let us not be ashamed to play, just for the
fun of it. Let us be hunters, fighters, musicians,
actors, painters, nature lovers, unconscious build-
ers of “more man, more woman,” just because
we want to be, seeking through this use of our
leisure hours the serenity of mind, the poise, the
balanced nervous system that is necessary if we
are really to live, not merely exist.

To many of us it seems that a re-subscription
of Aristotelian ideals which glorify man himself
rather than the things he creates would give us
the sense of values required to consider again the
pursuit of happiness as man’s chief goal. To
realize this ideal our various governmental units
must cease thinking of the leisure time problem
as something to be adequately cared for only
after other more traditional public needs are fully
met, and should begin to act on the theory
that leisure time may be an asset in our social
fabric only as recreational opportunities, wide in
scope and interest, are provided at no cost or a
nominal cost for that portion of our citizenship
unable economically to provide such opportunities
for itself.

\[ In the past, the continued denial to the multi-
ftude of man’s chief end—the pursuit of happi-

mess—has inevitably caused wideSpread sullen-
ness, discontent, unrest and worse. Today, mount-
ing costs in broken health, juvenile delinquency,
adult unhappiness, unrest and crime are warn-
ings that should not be disregarded. Further
delays in moving quickly to the goal cannot be
excused save on the grounds of ignorance and
indifference, because as a nation we have the
leadership and are rich enough to bring about in
the next decade any change we desire in our
cities in order that they may be good places in
which to live as well as work. / y(

In considering this problem we must bear in
mind that present-day conditions are no more
fixed or static than they have ever been in the
past. Science and invention have only begun to
shorten man's working day. Continued progress
in making life easier may‘ reasonably be expected.
Some of our great industrialists are now talking
in terms of the seven hour day and the five day
week. In fact, our time and labor saving devices
may force us to adopt the minimum suggested
by certain economists—the two hour day and the
four day week. \Vhat then of leisure time? Will
it not in fact have become by far the most im-
portant time in the life of man? And how shall
we be prepared to turn it into constructive use
unless we set up the machinery now to plan in-
telligently for the future?

To many of us, professionally engaged in this
field of service, this machinery should take the
form of an independent Commission or Board
entirely divorced from politics, with a mandatory
tax levy so graduated that it provides for increas-
ing population needs, and, with the legal right to

(Continued on page 107)

Public Recreation

Viewed from the Half-way Mark

By Harold S. Buttenheim and Martha Candler

N the year 1906, although automobile pas-
I sengers still rode in a rigidly upright position

and out in the weather, the six-cylinder motor
had been perfected and a new high-speed record
of a mile in 34 1/3 seconds had been set. The
United States Government was embarking upon
its first scientific experiments in road surfacing,
and New York State pioneered by voting a $50,—
000,000 good roads bond issue. National forest
and park recreation were being aggressively
furthered by President Roosevelt, the country’s
greatest public advocate of the Democracy of the
Free Outdoors, and of vigorous and zestful liv-
ing. A storm had just made his-
tory in Columbus, Ohio, by car-
rying away overnight a double
stretch of blind fence which had .
extended from the women’s bath-
house at the new concrete public
pool well into the water. There-
after, the newly courageous
walked boldly into the water
clothed simply in bathing attire,—
the obvious elements of which
were a bathing suit with a sailor
collar and reaching to ankles and "°
elbows, stockings, shoes, corsets, ’*°°°

    
    
   
   
 
     
   
     
   
   
    
   

and two caps, the outer frilled. Iwo

And now the historic city plan Moo
of Chicago was being made. A no...
number of cities had adopted mo.

plans for park systems. At least 9....
one country park system had been m,
established. Vacation play schools,
sand gardens, kindergartens and
public playgrounds had passed
beyond the stage of experimenta-
tion by social agencies, and were
being advocated for public adop-
tion. Forty-one cities had re-
ported organized public play-
grounds. Thus was the stage set

MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIEI
-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIHII
III-IIIIIIIIIIII!HII
III-IIIIIIIIIIIHIIII
“III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III-IIIIIIIIIIHIIIII
III-IIIIIIIIIIFIIIII
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
III-IIIIIIl-!ullllnl
III-IIIIIIHIIIIIIIII
III-IIIIIHIIIIIIHIII
III-IIME!HIIIIIEIIII

1906
1956

for the coming of the national recreation move-
ment as we know it today. On to the stage came
the Playground Association of America, as it was
originally named.

By the time The American City had been born,
in 1909, the Association was the center of dy-
namic, nation-wide activity directed towards
playgrounds-—especially children’s playgrounds—
as a governmental responsibility. The job upon
which it had launched immediately after organ-
ization—the making of the famous playground
plan for the District of Columbia; the champion-
ship of this plan by President Roosevelt; the un—

How directed play areas (dark line) and recreation
leaders employed (light line) have mounted

  

  

  

  

  

III-III-
"II-III

  

l
IIIIuII
IIIIuI

I
I
I
I
I
{I
8

88 VIEWED FROM THE HALF-WAY MARK

hesitating Congressional ap-
propriation of $75,000 for
commencing the carrying out
of the plan—these had had
their immediate effect upon the
nation as a whole and upon
municipal officials. The stand-
ards of space and facilities re-
quirements outlined in the Dis-
trict of Columbia study were
being widely quoted; permis-
sive state legislation was being
drafted and urged for passage.
“A Playground for Every
Chilc” became a community
slogan. Children themselves by
hundreds of thousands in cities
and towns had urged their own
cause in “Give Us Play-
grounds” parades..

It was only a few months
later—early in 19lO—that
Howard Braucher, from be-
neath an avalanche of in-pour-
ing demands for service of all
sorts, gave out to the press a
statement of his conviction that
“If the money were available
for giving to cities the infor-
mation which they desire, prac-
tically every city and town in the United States
would have playgrounds by 1915.”

Social workers, physical educators, women’s
clubs, chambers of commerce, taxpayers’ asso-
ciations, were eagerly interesting themselves in
the cause. College and high school debating so—
cieties were talking it as their subject. Lecturers
were talking it; newspapers and magazines fea-
turing it; and no fair was complete without its
playground exhibit. Already 336 cities and towns
had organized recreation; in 62 of them it was
municipally supported, and in 82 it had partial
municipal support. Many national welfare move-
ments, the Association’s Secretary added. had at—
tained less momentum during a century of
growth.

The remarkable prophetic vision of the
founders of what is now the National Recreation
Association, and the initial standards of admin-
istration and practice—remarkable now in the
perspective of 25 years—stand out from this
vantage point as a part of a great civic renais-
sance. The lowest point in the play life of human
history had been reached, someone says, in the

 

Scenes like this one, in a Chicago
park, will environ tomorrow's city

latter part of the preceding
century. A low point in Amer-
ican municipal government had
likewise been touched. But
with the turn of the century
there came a steadily growing
interest in municipal and civic
affairs. The average citizen be-
gan to awaken to the possibili-
ties in herent in creative, demo-
cratic local administration, and
to his own rights and duties
in a life in which the human
unit was increasingly promi-
nent. This was a fertile tield
for growth of “The Play-
ground for very Child; Recre-
ation for All” movement.

City planning, up to the
twentieth century largely con—
cerned with street systems, be-
gan to examine into every
phase of the communal life,
and physical provisions pos—
sible for it; it promoted vitally,
and was vitally promoted by,
the recreation cause. This reci-
procal action has been going
on increasingly ever since.

The 25th Birthday of the
National Recreation Association finds, therefore.
the wave of public recreation development still
crescent. Public recreation. publicly supported,
may fairly be accepted as a part of the permanent
living fabric of the social life of 1931.

\Vhat of 1956?

Let us dream of Happy City, where home life
and play, and school and play, and work and play
will find their ideal balance.

In Happy City every child, until he is old
enough to go to school, will have a pleasant and
safe place for play in the yard of his own home,
where his mother may keep a watchful eye on
him as she goes about her household duties. At
farthest remove, he will play with a small group
of intimates of his own age in a semi-private area
separated from the other open spaces of the
block interior by a screen of planting.

Every child of school age will make his own
choices of physical recreation, in summer and in
winter, under leadership, at a pleasantly designed
playground in close proximity to his school, and
within a quarter-mile of his home.

Every youth and every adolescent girl and

VIEW'ED FROM THE HALF-WAY MARK 89

every young industrial and professional worker,
at least to the age of 21, will have convenient
access to a large, efficiently designed playl‘ield,
with stadium and swimming pool, where physical
diversions are possible in great variety. He or
she will have Opportunity to sign up for year-
round participation in programs of competitive
sports under proper control, and to train for an-
nual playdays when honors will 'be won before
the vast audiences for which the stadium will
provide.

In Happy City family groups as well as age
groups will be familiar playing units. Every
member of the family will hnd congenial diver-
sion in the neighborhood park; in the waterfront
parks; and in the large scenic areas that may. be
inside or outside the corporate limits, but will
be within convenient transportation range. This
will offer picnicking, boating, camping, and win—
ter sports.

Promise of the Happy City which will afford
all these advantages is inherent in some of the
long-time planning programs of cities and re-
gions; in the newer ideas of physical education
and physical recreation; and in present trends to—
wards such restrictions of private land develop-
ment as will obviate the needless crowding to—
gether of private dwellings and the crowding out
of yards and play areas.

But in Happy City, this will be only half of
the recreation program, for here the Greek idea]
will be cherished. The perfect mind will be de—
veIOped consonantly with the perfect body; the

development and the perfection of both for the
adequate self-expression of the individual, will
be the responsibility.of the recreation depart-
ment. In recreation centers which will be de-
veloped in conjunction with the system of out-
door play areas and indoor gymnasiums, all man- .
ner of cultural and avocational pursuits will be
followed at the pleasure of young and old. These
great centers will be libraries and museums for
studies of the sciences and the arts; they will be
also, and importantly, workshops where skill in
the handcrafts may be gained and refined. For
the purposes of this center, every element of the
community will provide leadership; the skilled
workman will bring his tools as proudly as the
virtuoso his violin.

Let us look over the Open country which we
somehow dream of as environing Happy City,
on some holiday, or Sunday, or on a long after-
noon after the study or work of the day is over.
Active play areas will be occupied. Groups ac-
companied by guides will flock over the wooded
hills intent on the lessons of the nature trails;
others will pass on their pilgrimage to the distant
elevations where from the amateur astronomical
observatories they may watch the stars rise; still
others will be intent on sketching the landscape.
Some will merely lie and watch the clouds Float
by, or tell old tales to a group of their mates.
For, in Happy City, true democracy will be real-
ized in the leisure time of the pe0ple, and each

will express himself according to the spirit that
is in him. What of 1956?

Development of Recreational Philosophy
' By Clark W. H etherington

ROADLY speaking, it is safe to say that
previous to 1906 America had no positive

philosophy about the social or educational
values of play or recreation. There were recrea-
tional activities, but no national recreational ideals
or phiIOSOphical principles or customs concerning
recreation that were accepted by public leaders,
social workers or educators. This was due in
large measure to the fact that the people of the
United States had come out of pioneer days with—
out the conscious need for recreation or the oppor-
tunities to deveIOp recreational ideals such as
existed in Europe. Pioneer life itself carries with
it the emotional stimulus, excitement, and strenu-
ousness that put recreation to the side. But back

of this pioneer influence, puritan ideals were dis—
tinctly antagonistic towards play. Seriousness was
exalted; play was frowned upon. It was something
to be feared. This deeply ingrained attitude had
associated with it two other prejudices: the sur-
vivals of ascetic and scholastic attitudes. In the
ascetic ideals the mind was exalted, the “body”
debased—the “Hesh” was the source of all evil. In
the scholastic attitude the intellect was exalted;
the emotions ignored. The subtle undercurrent of
these prejudices in thought and feeling were pow—
erful among social groups in proportion as they
had cultural ambitions.

No one who was not of an age in 1906 for

(Continued on page 111)

 

I

Courtesy of Philadelphia Playground: Association

The formal type of physical edu-
cation is rapidly disappearing

T was during the 1880’s that Physical Educa—
I tion in the United States got off to its per-
manent start. Previously there had been spor-
adic developments of interests but there had been
little sequence between them. In the 80’s, how-
ever, a very definite foothold was gained in many
of the colleges and universities, and the public
schools also showed signs of becoming inter-
ested. The emphasis was largely a health and
developmental one. Consequently, medically
trained men and women comprised the staffs of
the gymnasiums. Physiology, kinesiology, and
anthropometry were put into practice with a vim.
Exercises were adapted to muscles and joints, and
mental processes were disciplined for the attain-
ment of precision and conscious bodily control.
What might have been the status of physical

90

The

The play spirit has given
physical education new
vigor, a wider social
outlook and emphasis
on activities that will
carry over to adult life.

education had it been permitted
to steer this well-charted—i f un-
adventuresorne—course, is an in-
teresting matter for conjecture.
But unperceived social forces
were gathering momentum and
were destined soon to cause up-
heavals in almost the same man-
ner as the “subconscious” be-
comes disturbing to the individ-
ual self.

One of these factors was the
student revolt against formal dis-
cipline in exercise as expressed in
the unexpected rise of athletics,
an institution which has been
aptly called the “one contribu-
tion of the student boy to Ameri-
can education.” (President C. C.
Little.) In sharp contrast to the
Physical Education of the time,
the athletic movement was filled with the wild
vigor and abandon of youth, and, heedless of
health and principle, was devoted to exercise not
as an end in itself but as an expression of the
competitive Spirit and its concomitants.

At this time another social movement was just
beginning to flower. This was the play and rec-
reation movement, which as yet was concerned
with little children and adolescents and with the
problem of providing play spaces in crowded
Cities.

Athletic and Playground Exercise Different
from Formal Physical Education

These two movements, the athletic and the
playground, differed from formal physical edu-
cation in that exercise was not thought of in

Contribution of the Recreation Movement

to Physical Education

By E. D. Mitchell

Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Michigan

health, curative and disciplinary terms, but rath-
er as a wholesome outlet for exuberant animal
Spirits and as an expression of many intangible
qualities such as school spirit, c00peration, cour—
age, friendliness, and so on. To the college, ath-
letics was an antidote to hazing, drinking, hair-
cutting, and vicious pranks; to the municipality,
play was an eliminator of juvenile delinquency.
As‘the years went on, more and more the posi-
tive outcomes in education in social living, ethical
principles, and success in life were sought and
realized. In this scheme of things, health, to be
sure, was not lost sight of, ‘but rather it was in-
cidental and often sacrificed to the goal of
success.

With two such opposing choices, there could
be but one alternative. It is human nature to
crave self-expression. So athletics boomed; the
playgrounds flourished; and formal physical edu-
cation lost much of the ground it had gained.
The lot of physical education in the face of such
competition was also made harder
by the fact that a prominent com-
mittee of the National Education
Association in the 90’s, while for-
mulating the objectives of that
powerful body, not so much as
mentioned Physical Education.
Consequently, school executives,
always by circumstances forced to
practice economy, did not feel
called upon to promote something
that seemingly would bring no
credit to their schools and which
had not been definitely advocated
by the national body responsible
for establishing standards and
setting up objectives.

New Trends in Physical Education

Out of this situation, however, trends were to
develop which completely changed the concept,
program, and significance of Physical Education.
The favored types of exercises, as evidenced in
the recreation and athletic programs, began to
find a place also in the physical education pro-
grams. Two new games, basketball and volley-
ball, began to be played in the gymnasiums. A
new type of activity tests, mainly featuring track
and held events, began to appear in addition to
the older anthropometric chartings. Games taught
wholesale on the playground began to be used
in school yards and in classrooms. Even the
hardened formalist could not resist the tempta-
tion at times to introduce a game or two and be
rewarded by_ a lusty cheer. The whole physical

Informal play has a vital part in the modern
physical education and health program of schools

 

Courtesy Playground Commission, San Francisco, Calif.

91

92 CONTRIBUTION OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

education movement became broadened — not
merely in its curriculum, but in its objectives. To
the health and disciplinary objectives of old were
now added social, mental and moral objectives,
vague possibly but at least wholehearted in their
claims for recognition. This was the first and
possibly the most important contribution of the
recreation movement to Physical Education.
Physical Education began to think of itself in
terms of education and not as a thing apart.
Other contributions followed as a matter of
course. Physical Education began to capitalize
on the hold that the informal play and athletic
movement had captured in the public imagina—
tion. It is not too much to say that the recrea—
tion movement created public sentiment for physi-
cal education equipment and programs. The rec—
reation movement with its emphasis on all activi-
ties that are creative, and its later inclusion of
adults within its scope, revolutionized the plans

and use of school buildings. It was easier to ob-‘

tain gynmasiums, play fields, and swimming pools,
when the public was convinced that these expen-
ditures would be justified by a constant use of
them. The small community was more ready to
bond itself for a gymnasium when it realized
that this addition would be the community center
for its social activities. A somewhat similar situ-
ation held true in the case of school athletics.
As the athletic programs began to prosper and to
enlarge' their facilities and equipment, they were
no longer left uncurbed. With faculty direction,
their new buildings, fields, and funds began to
be made available for universal use.

So we have informal activities in the required
program; we have social and moral objectives
added to health; we have physical activity a nat-
ural part of the child’s growth and an integral
part of education; we have adequate facilities
and programs; we have community-wide use of
schools. These are contributions
of the recreation movement to
Physical Education.

But these are not all.

By its early recognition of the
inevitable outcome of the indus-
trial age in the way of increased
productiveness and shorter
hours of labor, the National
Recreation Association brought
preparedness to the problem of
“Education for Leisure.” This
is now so apparent to schoolmen
as to be one of their major ob-

Remember—

The June issue of "Recreation"
will be the Year Book, official
survey of public recreation sta-
tistics for 1930, as supplied by
some 975 communities through-
out the country. This issue will
classify important new facts on
types of centers, city expendi-
tures for play, and the progress
of leadership.

jectives, one of the Seven Cardinal Principles, and
one of the leading editorial topics in current edu-
cational journals. This influence has been felt in
Physical Education with the result that its pro—
grams have been shaped to include training for all
in “carry over” activities that may be pursued vig-
orously and joyously after schooldays are over. It
is recognized that many likings come only after
the elementary skills are learned and that the early
years are the strategic ones in this respect. As
adult recreation comes more and more to the
fore, so will physical education be extended in
the comprehensiveness of its offerings.

Possibly it is a minor note (in comparison with
the more far-reaching contributions) to mention
that in the early days before the schools had
playgrounds the public parks were made avail-
able for school demonstrations and athletic
events. This situation still holds true in many
places.

Possibly, too, of minor note is the fact that
intramurals, in colleges and in the public
schools, have borrowed f rom the playground sys—
tems many ideas for stimulating voluntary par-
ticipation, particularly in the way of individual
and group point systems, inexpensive ribbon and
badge awards, and new games and attractive
methods of organizing mass competition.

But it is decidedly not minor to remember that
the National Recreation Association has, through
its National Physical Education Service, ren—
dered invaluable aid in securing state-wide legis-
lation for physical education. Thirty-six states
now have laws for physical education and the
majority of these have state directors to assist in
the promotion of the school program and to exert
a restraining influence over some of the ten-
dencies to excess in athletics.

All this development in enlarging the program
of Physical Education has not been accomplished
without difficulty. It was early
pointed out in this article that
play and athletics, containing as
they do the realizations of so
many fundamental human urges
and expressions, can easily
break the bonds of social direc—
tion and go to extremes. Their
course was entirely contrary to
that of the premeditated. pre—
cise, and clearly marked path of
the early gymnastic and health
type of Physical Education. Be—

(Continned on page 100)

Municipal Recreation
and the
Public Schools

 

v“'--.',.

Courtesy Recreation Dept, Oakland, Calif.

Outdoor sports for every child are
replacing star teams in schools today

recreation systems supported by taxation has

had a marked influence on the public school
systems in this country. That the provision for
the play life of little children and for the recrea—
tional life of adolescents is a duty of public
schools has now been recognized. Modern educa-
tion today is much concerned with the task of
education for leisure both for the youth and
adolescent.

For twenty-five years the National Recreation
Association has been preaching the philosophy that
play is education—that the child grows and learns
through wise play habits developed under trained
leadership. It has advanced the idea that under
modern mechanical industrial conditions of life,
recreation is an ingredient of life, an integral
item in the balanced ration of living which young
and_ old should have, if they are to be happy,
normal, efficient citizens.

In recent years this Association has pointed
out the obvious fact that with the steady, rapid
increase of leisure because of the shorter work-
ing day, space, facilities and programs must be
made available for the wise and wholesome use
of free time. Through its field service, lectures,

THE development of municipal year round

By James Edward Rogers

Director National Physical
Education Service

meetings, congresses, con-
ferences, bulletins, maga-
zines, books, it has per-
meated the country with
these concepts as to the
importance of play, rec-
reation and leisure.

Many national move-
ments and organizations
have felt and profited by
this emphasis on these
three vital factors in mod-
ern life. The schools have
responded and are doing
much to provide for play
of the young, recreation
of the youth and free time
of adults. Schools are
providing for adequate play space with programs
under trained leadership. All new schools have
large school playgrounds that are ofttimes used as
part of the year round municipal recreation system.
The trend is to have three to four acres for ele-
mentary schools, 5 to 10 acres for junior high
schools, and 10 to 20 acres for senior high
schools. This rapid growth in the number and
size of school playgrounds devoted to community-
wide use, is one of the-progressive signs in mod-
ern education. Schools are also providing large
adequate indoor gymnasiums and other facilities
for play, sports, and athletics. The use of school
buildings for community evening recreational
purposes is growing in extent. The school pro-
grams in music, drama, art, are reaching out into
the community. Schools are making community
contacts through their extra-curricular prOgrams
and through the use of the school buildings by
Parent-Teacher Associations, Boy Scouts, and
similar groups. The school house becomes a real
community center.

Large beautiful auditoriums are used for lec-
tures, concerts and meetings. In brief, no up-to-
date school building of any size is now being con—
structed without playgrounds, gymnasium, audi-

93

94 MUNICIPAL RECREATION IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

torium and other facilities, to be devoted to the
recreational and avocational education of all.

One contribution made by the National Rec-
reation ASsociation directly to public schools dur-
ing the last twelve years is the service rendered
to state departments of education in the estab-
lishment of state physical education laws, and
the appointment of state directors of health and
physical education on the staff of the state super-
intendent of public instruction. In 1918 when the
National Physical Education Service was estab-
lished by this Association, only 11 states had
laws and only four states had state directors.
Today 36 states representing 90 per cent of the
population have laws, 32 states representing 80
per cent of the population have state programs,
and 20 states representing 70 per cent of the
population have state directors.

By working through the State Departments
of Education it is possible eventually to affect
the play and recreation life of the 26 million
school children in this country. For example in
one state over 52 per cent of the school population
is definitely enrolled in a state—wide play program.
In 12 states over 50 per cent of the counties have
play days and year round schedules of activities.
It is estimated that these state departments now
reach about 15 million school children. This has
been a specific concrete contribution by this As-
sociation to education.

During the past four years this Association
has worked on the formulation of a set of
National Physical Achievement Standards which
promise to be of nation-wide significance.
Through the cooperation of a national commit-
tee of experts and national associations inter-
ested in the recreation and physical progress of
American youth, a set of standards for the dif-
ferent age levels has been scientifically prepared
that will provide a year round program in the
development of skills in games, track and field
events, gymnastic stunts and adequate sports. It
is now possible to see what an eight, nine, ten
year-older, etc., can do in these different events.
We have furnished the educator with what he has
been asking for for many years. We have given
him a knowledge of what he can expect of boys in
recreational activities, as we can in reading. geog-
raphy, history and other school subjects. School
administrators have been most appreciative. The
potential values of this contribution to the play
life and physical welfare of America can only
be appreciated by a study of these standards.

The National Recreation Association has
worked in close cooperation with the National
Education Association. One of its staff members
has served for four years as president of the
Department of School Health and Physical Edu-
cation of the N. E. A. The department’s activi-
ties have reached out through the country and
have materially helped local school systems in the
deve10pment of their play, recreation, health and
physical education program.

The Association has also been helping the
National Commission on the Enrichment of
Adult Life and one of its staff members is sec-
retary of this Commission. The purpose of the
Commission is “for the teaching profession to
promote plans for the wiser use of extra or leis-
ure hours just as it has in previous years pro-
moted the movement for vocational efficiency. To
promote the avocational is naturally the next
step.” This Commission is composed of about
forty of the outstanding national leaders in edu-
cation, industry, labor and social service. Every
state has a commission similarly composed. There
is a national program that is now functioning
and through the state commissions it is hoped to
reach the entire country.

The School Recreation Program is thus becom-
ing a big factor in the development of the general
community recreation program. It is recognized
that the city government through their municipal
Recreation Boards and the Park Boards through
their recreational bureaus also have vital pro-
grams. The schools however have a unique oppor-
tunity because they touch the intimate life of every
child and are in touch with every home.

Education today is not restricted to the three
R’s. So-called extra-curricular school subjects
are now part of the regular school program. The
arts are now flourishing in the up-to-date school.
Every school has its orchestras, bands, its glee
clubs, choruses. Rapid provision is being made
for music, art, drama, nature study and other art
activities. Concerts, exhibits and demonstrations
of art, drama and music are frequently given
during the school year. Schools are making pro-
vision for adult education not only through voca-
tional teaching but informal education that has
to do with the avocations of life. In brief, rec-
reation leaders and the Association have initiated,
promoted, organized and c00perated in helping
the public schools of America provide for the
play life of children, the recreational needs of
youth, and the education of leisure for adults.

Changes in Playground

Design and Equipment

By George D. Butler

National Recreation Association

QUARTER of a century might well be
expected to bring forth many changes and

improvements in the physical equipment
of a movement, especially during its infancy, and
in this respect the playground movement is no
exception. At the same time one is impressed
by the insight and thoroughness which charac-
terized many of the playground pioneers in their
study of the problems of layout and equipment
and of their relation to the entire play program.
Although new and improved devices have been
invented, a great variety of additional materials
have been put to use, changing ideas of the func-
tion of a playground have affected its arrange-
ment and use, and new games have become pop-
ular. To a large extent, the current principles
governing playground design and layout resemble
closely those worked out early in the century.
Such changes as have
been made, have been
based largely on experi-
ence and on the changing
life and interests of the
people served.

Discussions of the
playground in 1906 cen-
tered primarily around
the school playground,
which was generally of
very meager proportions,
the small municipal play-
ground and the large
community playground
and athletic field of which

the centers established by
the South Park Commis—

Today's larger
play areas have
their apparatus
grouped to serve
varying ages and
interests.

sion in Chicago, were the
outstanding example. These
three types of areas are
among the most important
in the recreation system of
today. The school play—
ground is now frequently
three acres or more in extent and the municipal
or neighborhood playground, although intended
primarily for children, is often of sufficient size
to provide activities for all the family. The mod-
ern neighborhood playiield of 8 to 20 acres is
similar in many respects to the early Chicago play-
grounds and athletic fields. '
Perhaps no play standards have undergone a
greater change than those with respect to the size
of children’s playgrounds In writing of school-
yard playground requirements in 1908, Mero

“A Model Playground" the pride
of the community in 1908

 

96 CHANGES IN PLAYGROUND DESIGN

states that the average space per pupil is perhaps
10 to 20 square feet, “except for the very newest
schools in which up-to-date ideas have been
adopted in this respect and the 30 square feet rule
is followed as closely as possible.” These “up-to-
date” schools would be considered exceedingly out-
of-date today when the accepted standard for an
elementary school site is at least five acres. There
has not been a corresponding increase in the space
standards for adult play areas although many cities
today have playfields or athletic fields comparable
in size to the few but widely known areas devel-
oped twenty-five years ago.

Definite trends may be noted in the general
layout and space uses of playgrounds over a
period of years. Due perhaps to its limited size,
a considerable proportion of the early children’s
playground was devoted to apparatus which ac-
commodated large numbers on a small area.
The added space available today is devoted pri-
marily to organized games and group activities.
There is a present tendency to set aside a sec-
tion for the exclusive use of children up to six
or seven years of age, whereas in the early days
the children under ten years of age were cared
for in a special area. Three separate sets of
apparatus were often provided, one for the pre-
school group, another for the older girls and
third for the older boys. Today, however, it is
becoming a common practice to provide one gen-
eral apparatus area which is used by both boys
and girls, primarily from seven to 12 years. In
many of the early playgrounds the apparatus was
either massed in the center of the playground or
was set up along the en-
tire border. Today the ten-
dency is to concentrate the
apparatus, leaving the
center of the playground
free and enabling game
courts such as basketball
and volley ball to be laid
out along the boundary
fence on one or two sides
of the area. Except in
large playgrounds where
separate areas are pro-
vided for the games and
play activities of the older
boys and girls, the use of
game courts and other
spaces by the two groups
is determined largely by

the program. The older boys and girls were
generally separated by a hedge or fence in the
early playfields. A feature of many recent play-
field plans, which one looks for in vain in the
areas planned early in the century, is the sports
field or play area for older girls and women,
providing facilities for such games as hockey,
soccer, playground ball, archery and field sports.
Although the early plans provided ample sports
areas for the older boys and men, the demand
for such areas for the other sex is comparatively
recent.

Playground apparatus, recognized today as an
important feature of every children’s playground,
played a big part in the planning of the early
playgrounds. Changing opinions on particular
types of apparatus can perhaps be illustrated
most effectively by quoting from a group report
on Playground Equipment submitted in 1910,
and from a report on Standards in Playground
Apparatus adopted in 1929. Since the earlier
report was more inclusive, only the items of ap-
paratus are listed here. The following lists were
recommended in the 1910 report (the items in-
dicated by an asterisk were in the essential, and
the others in the ideal, list) :

GIRLS OF ALL AGES AND BOYS UNDER
TEN YEARS

* 4 sand courts, 8 x 16 ft.

* 12 rope swings, approximately 10 ft. high
* 2 sliding boards

* 4 giant strides

* 6 teeter ladders

An aerial view of the layout features of an
athletic field in the South Park System, Chicago

 

Courtesy 50. Park System, Chicago

CHANGES IN PLAYGROUND DESIGN 97

 

2 sets (5 rings in each set) traveling rings
8 sets flying rings

4 climbing ropes

4 climbing poles

4 vertical ladders

4 inclined or slanting ladders

6 teeter boards

FOR BOYS AND YOUNG MEN

* 4 rope swings

3 horizontal bars (1 low, 1 medium, 1
high)

2 sets (5 rings in each set) traveling rings

4 sets flying rings

2 trapezes

2 giant strides

4 climbing ropes

4 climbing poles

4 vertical ladders

4 slanting ladders

2 teeter ladders

1 buck
1 horse

1 parallel bar

.x.

*****

The following items were recommended by the
committee of recreation executives in 1929:
For pre—school age children (under 6 years) :

Chair swings (set of 6)
Sand box (in 2 sections)
Small slide

Simple low climbing device

Two sixty-foot and two ninety-foot lighting

towers turn night into day for football games
at Knox Athletic Field, Johnstown, New York

For children of elementary school age (6-12 years
and older) :

Swing—frame 12’ high (set of 6)
Slide—8’ high (approx. 16' long)
Horizontal ladder

Traveling rings or giant stride
Balance beam

See-saws (set of 3 or 4)

Optional—if available funds, space and attend-
ance justify:
Horizontal bar
Giant stride or traveling rings

(whichever is not provided above)
Low climbing device

It is evident that much of the gymnastic ap—
paratus which gave to the early playgrounds the
name of outdoor gymnasia is now regarded by
many recreation leaders as more suitable for in-
door than outdoor use. The teeter ladder has
practically disappeared from the public play-
ground and the buck, horse, and parallel bars are
seldom found in the newer areas. It is also of
interest to note that the only new pieces of
apparatus in the lists are the horizontal ladder
and the low climbing device (which is known as
the Junglegym). A great number of new de-
vices, many of them adaptions of the older ones,
are now available from the manufacturers. Al-
though under certain conditions they serve a
useful purpose, the old and tried types are gen-

(Continued on page 105)

98 WHITE HOUSE ANNIVERSARY MEETING

White House Anniversary Meeting
(Continued from page 59)

er “rivals diplomats in their own methods, but
meantime is the wheel horse of the recreation
chariot in its imposing progress.” The drama and
the music services of the association were re-
viewed by F. S. Titsworth. “Nothing can take
the place of drama in a recreation program,” he
said.

Girls have been neglected in provision for rec-
reation, said Mrs. Edward “J. Biddle, of Car-
lisle, Pa., reading a report for Mrs. Charles V.
Hickox, of Michigan City, Indiana, who founded
the association’s department of field service on
recreation activities for women and girls. “An
athletic tradition for boys has been built up,” she
read, “but until recent years the athletic program
for girls has been more or less haphazard.” Carl
E. Milliken, former governor of Maine, presented
a comprehensive statement of recreation needs, in-
cluding more land for playgrounds and parks, the
beautification of playgrounds, increase of forest
areas, legislation in many states, superior train-
ing Opportunities for leadership, more leadership
in rural districts, and selection of leaders on the
basis of ability rather than because of political

service. .
Looking to the Future

The varied economic advantages of public rec-
reation were summed up by Austin E. Griffiths,
former justice of the Superior Court in Seattle,
\Vashington. F. Trubee Davison, besides speak-
ing for the War Department, presented a paper
calling for securing more land for all types of rec-
reation areas both within city limits and nearby.
“Many playgrounds have been donated, but now,
in part as a result of William E. Harmon’s efforts,
it is commonly recognized by subdividers that
playgrounds in new subdivisions are a good busi-
ness investment just as important as streets.”

“A new culture may come in America if there
can be full freedom for creative use of the spare
time of the nation,” declared John G. VVinant,
Governor of New Hampshire, whose paper was
submitted in his absence. “The careful training of
children for the recreational use of leisure will
progressively, generation by generation, affect not
only the social life but the music, the drama, the
art and the sport of the entire nation,” he stated.
Others present were: Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer,
Mrs. Charles D. Lanier, Robert Garrett, and
Frederick M. Warburg, of the board, and H. S.
Braucher, secretary. —\V. W. P.

World at Play

Awards Made in Philadelphia.—The presen-
tation of awards was an occasion heralded with
great acclaim by those attending the centers
maintained by the Bureau of Recreation, Depart-
ment of Public \Velfare, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. Funfield Recreation Center was the scene
of the presentation on January 20th, and a pro-
gram of music, tumbling and clogging, added in-
terest. The Bureau classifies all the recreation
centers under its jurisdiction into three groups
according to the facilities of the particular center,
and points are awarded the centers for participa-
tion and for the winning of various honors in the
activities conducted by the Bureau. A perpetual
plaque is presented each year to the winner of
every group. A banner is given each month to
the center in each group earning the largest num-
ber of points for that period. Activities range
from athletic games to singing and drama.

The Appalachian Trail Conference—The
fifth annual Appalachian Trail Conference will
be held under the auspices of the Smoky Moun-
tains Hiking Club, June 12 to 14, 1931, at the
Mountain View Hotel, Gatlinburg, Tennessee.
Plans for the conference meeting include hikes
and motor trips in the Great Smoky Mountains
National Park and vicinity. Information regard-
ing the meetings may be secured from Professor
H. M. Jennison, University of Tennessee, Knox-
ville, Tennessee.

Rodeo Delights Boys in Louisville—Eight-
een hundred and seventy-five boys, ranging
from the ages of 10 to 15, took part in the rodeo
activities on the playgrounds. The State Fair
Board sent an expert cowboy who taught lariat
throwing on the various playgrounds different
days of the week. The boys who succeeded in
perfecting the art were given a ticket to the State
Fair and allowed to take part in the grandstand
activities. It was an interesting late season activ-
ity, and of course the boys greatly enjoyed play-
ing they were cowboys with the expert.

“It is sound, common sense to provide for
amusement and recreation for the peOple of a
community under the best of conditions. Free
public recreation becomes an imperative necessity
in times of stress.”—Oglebay Institute Bulletin.

DISTINCT IN DESIGN ‘ .. -

UNIQUE, IN LIGHTING RESULTS

    
    
  

The Benjamin

“Play Area”
Floodlight

A New Unit for
the Lighting of
Outdoor Recre-
ational Areas--

slun—nu-———-—————-I|Ir———————-—‘—_———-m——v-‘-————_—
,u._———-—————a-————_—-____—p—m—m_———u——ans-u.-

AKE your outdoor recreational areas avail-
able at night to those who can not take time
off during the day. Make night playing as free as

E

 

 

quirements for the Lighting , , ,

of Outdoor Recreational The new Benjamln Play Area Floodllght, No.
Areas: 5752, meets every requirement for the modern
(A) Provides uniform and strong il- - t -

lamination Oh the ground ahd to the llghtlng of outdoor sports and recreatlon, ground
{mm and “‘1” °‘ ’1“ "m" areas, apparatus and the area over the playing
(B) Directs adequate light on ver-

tical surfaces to be illuminated such field.

as players, apparatus and other . . . a .
objects. EspeCIally adapted for the llghtlng 01 Ch]-
(C) Dim" PM of, I!” light into the dren’s Playgrounds, Tennis Courts, Croquet Courts,
upper areas permitting players and _ _ . .

69°01'10" to follow an °bl°°l m Horseshoe Pltchlng Courts, SWImmlng Pools, etc.
flight such as a baseball or football. . . o o _
(3)1dMinirlnizcis annoyidng glare by Consult our Illumlnatlng Engmeerlng Serv1ce
s ie in; t e amp. an prevents it ' ' ° '

from interfering whh the vision of Department, Without obllgatlon, for practlcal sug-

players or spectators.

gestions and speciiications—we will gladly help
you plan your outdoor recreational lighting.

 

 

 

 

 

-.—.-u nil-Z...

#N', -— I—- I I _ _ H
_ ~ r a ‘ ‘4

BJAM N ELECRI MF-‘u. .,

DES PLAINES (Chicago Suburb) ILLINOIS

 

    

Divisional (Iffirvs .'

New York (‘llioago San Francisco
2 17 Vt". I 7th Street I l l N. Canal Street 448 Bryant Street

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

100 CONTRIBUTION OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 
     
 

HOW MUCH
DO YOU CARE

about Schools and
Children?

The Progressive Education As-
sociation translates your interest
into service for your child, for
your school, for your community.
i No matter what helpful serv-
ice other organizations render, it
is the ONE which asks and an-

swers these questions:

 
   
   
      

    
      
   
    

i JW hat IS real education? \
I How can it be secured for

   

the children of today and
?
\ tomorrow. /

PROGRESSIVE EDUCA-
= TION, the monthly organ of the
Association, interprets this move-
ment in education to the public.

   

You DO care about schools
and children—can you af-
ford to keep out of the cur-
rent of this movement?

Membership in the Progressive
Education Association, with its
many personal services, and an
annual subscription to PRO-
GRESSIVE EDUCATION,
. means only $3.00 in money . . .
' but a great deal in personal sat-

isfaction both to you and to us.

Will you come along? Note the

SPECIAL OFFER in the at-

tached coupon.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
716 Jackson Place
Washington, D. C.

Dept. \V.

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Please enroll me as a subscribing-member of the
PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIA-

TION, my subscription to expire October, 1932.
Enclosed is my check for $3.00. It is understood
that I am to receive the May, 1931, issue, and
one previous issue free of charge.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

A ddress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 
 

 
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
   

Contribution of Recreation
(Continued from page 92)

cause of this, many restraining influences
have had to come into these movements to
correct evils which might have been avoided with
careful forethought. One error well nigh re-
sulted disastrously: the early objective of Health
was almost lost sight of by the informal move-
ment in its stress on self expression and the so-
cial and moral objectives. This was most grave,
in view of the fact that the Physical Education
Department was in reality the only school de-
partment entrusted with the responsibility of the
health of the students. The consequence was a
rival movement, the Health Movement, which
has arisen 'within practically the last decade, and
which in some places has usurped the place of
Physical Education. In most instances, however,
a happy reunion is being effected by means of
the combined title Health and Physical Educa-
tion, with Health and Physical used in the adjec-
tive sense. With this combined department linked
together in a happy administrative plan, the
physical, mental, moral, and social aspects of
Physical Education activity all get full recogni-
tion, and the medical approach (which well nigh
disappeared under the earlier enthusiasm of the
informal movement) is back again in a very
wholesome health education and health service
capacity.

In conclusion, the contributions of Recreation
to Physical Education are not yet ended, because
the health, physical, and recreational program of
schools and communities are now finding their
best interests realized by wholehearted coopera-
tion with each other. There are certain “core”
objectives which all share in common. All aim
for the healthy and happy child and citizen. To
this end the health program contributes certain
health teaching, health habit acquiring, and
health remedial service which the others would
neglect; the physical education program stresses
activity as an educational process, with health.
mental growth, and character as outcomes of
properly graded and directed programs; and the
recreation movement gives an emphasis—other-
wise lost—in its leisure activities which are
strictly not health or motor, namely, pageantry,
story telling, nature study, scouting, music, dra-
matics, quiet games, mixer games, and the like.
“All for one and one for all” would happily de-
scribe the relation of these three divisions—all
striving for a common aim.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

PARK RECREATION 101

Park Recreation
(Continued from page 84)

scape recreation parks. The early planners would
be no less amazed at the organization of a modern
park department and at the varied personnel.
They would be familiar with the engineering,
landscape gardening and material maintenance
personnel but entirely unfamiliar with the numer-
ous office employees and activities personnel com-
prising playground supervisors and leaders, muni-
cipal athletic directors, community center direc-
tors and assistants, nature study leaders, com-
munity music and dramatic directors, handcraft
instructors, swimming instructors, golf managers
and instructors. Budgets for maintenance and
operation have greatly risen during the past thirty
years in nearly all the larger cities of the country.
Park departments have become large business or-
ganizations as well as widely varied human service
institutions. A new type of chief executive has
appeared—a type distinguished by business organ-
zing ability, knowledge of personnel practices,
and sympathetic, keen insight into the leisure time
needs of the people.

In a small city in the middle west there is a
park comprising about seven hundred and fifty
acres that in design, construction and operation
is prOphetic of what parks and park systems will
more and more become in the future. In this
single park there is a physical activities center
comprising an eighteen hole golf course, ball
grounds, and other games facilities, a riding acad-
emy, swimming pool and ten miles each of hiking
and riding trails; fine arts, natural science, com-
munity dramatics, community music, social rec—
reation, handcraft art, family camp and camp con-
ference centers. There are also numerous picnic
centers, and a garden center for instructing the
peOple in plant materials, care of plants and in
landscape design. Forest plantations comprise
several hundred acres. This park is a paradise
of beauty and at the same time provides Oppor-
tunities for the expression of most of the major
human interests.

Thus in the course of the evolutionary devel-
opment of parks and park departments they have
ceased to represent outstandingly a single great
art as in the beginning, and have partially become,
and will more fully in the future become institu-
tions for the promotion and fulfilment of the art
of living, which comprises all the arts and more.
In meeting the demands of the new age of whole-
sale leisure they will inevitably take their place in

 

A—A, friends (pronounced Aye-Aye), and meaning Good Morn-
ing, Good Day or Good Evening, as, if and when. Don't forget.
you met me .at the Annual Recreation Congress.

ON THFTLEVEL, when you bought that Automobile. did you
buy a 1925 Model? No! Why not? It was satisfactory. wasn't it?
Oh! you wanted the latest. Sure. better lines, better details and
probably less cost. That's sensible. you bet.

The 1931 model in Swimming Pools is a "BINTZ POOL." It
will save you 25% to 40% in the cost of your complete pool
project or give you more for the same money as compared with
a common-type, old-style sunken pool and bathhouse. is better
looking architecturally, better built structurally, takes up 30%
less ground space, easier landscaped, and easier controlled. main-
tained and Operated. And nothing would suit me better than to
supply an open mind with ample and positive proof of the aforesaid
(Ah! I'm a lawyer now) claims. -

Will some one answer this questlon for me? No kidding. Why
do so many Recreation Superintendents. Commissions. eto., think
their duty and responsibility is to local inexperienced professional
talent, rather than to the public. who has given and entrusted
to them an amount of money to spend (Le. for a swimming pool)
in an economical and judicious manner? ON THE LEVEL, a lot
of them do, but why?

Well, Z-Z fellows (meaning Bye-Bye). until next time and right
NOW advise your pool problem. and actual photographs and 30-page
booklet Will be sent you from

    

WESLEY BINTZ
E.C.E... M.S.|NE.., M.AM.Soc.C.E‘..
CONSULTING ENGINEER (cer)
SWIMMINQ Poems EXCLUSIVELY

   
 
 

LANSING. MICHIGAN

 
 

 

the structure of organized society as institutions
second to none of the great institutions which
have promoted the physical well being, enlightened
the mind, inspired and enheartened the spirit and
promoted the general happiness of mankind.

/.

“I would insist that the man who spends four
years in our north country here and does not
learn to hear the melody of rustling leaves or does
not learn to love the wash of the racing brooks
over their rocky beds in spring, who never ex—
periences the repose to be found on lakes and
rivers, who has not stood enthralled upon the top
of Moosilauke on a moonlight night or has not
become a worshiper of color as he has seen the
sun set from one of Hanover’s hills, who has not
thrilled at the whiteness of the snow-clad country-
side in winter or at the flaming forest colors of
the fall—I would insist that this man has not
reached out for some of the most worth-while
educational values accessible to him at Dart-
mouth.”——Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins, president of
Dartmouth College.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers /

   

102 AMATEUR ARTS

Amateur Arts in a Machine Age
(Continued from page 68)

a group that is building telesc0pes to study the
stars. Inventors, writers, engineers, lawyers,
housewives and business men belong to these
nature study groups.

In the near future the \Vorkshop plans to hold
classes in pottery, sculpture. and scene painting.

It seems to me that there are two points on
which many of us fail to agree and on which the
success of this type of recreation program
depends.

The first is the recognition of adult leisure. In
the confusion of present day living it is difficult
to feel that we actually have time to do any of
the things mentioned. \Ve do have the time, pro-
viding the interest is sufficiently deep. the chal-
lenge sufficiently strong to stir us to make a place
for it. If we want to do any one thing strongly
enough, we can easily clear out a number of less
important things. It is a matter of choice.

The second point is the matter of standards.
There is no challenge to further effort if we do
not keep our standards high. \Ve do not learn
mountain climbing by walking on a level pave-

THE CAMP DIRECTORS MAGAZINE

A monthly, professional camp magazine for Camp
Directors, progressive educators and Recreation
Oliicials. Special Departments devoted to Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire, \Voodcraft, Dude Ranches,

Camp Counselors Association are edited by their
respective National Heads:

JOSEPHINE SCIIAIN ron GIRL SCOUTS

LESTER F. SCOTT rot! CAMP FIRE

ERNEST TIlOMPSON-SETON FOR WOODCRAFT
T. JOE CAIIILL FOR DUDE RANCIIES
PEGGY DOWST FOR CAMP COUNSELORS ASSO.

G. DANA YOUNGER FOR CHILDREN'S WEL-
FARE FEDERATION

Subscription price is $3.00 yearly.
Not sold on news stands

If you are in camping, you owe it to yourself
to subscribe to

CANIP LIFE

Barbizon-Plaza Hotel
Central Park South, New York City

Tun EDrronuL STA" CONTRIBUTING Em‘rou
Ben Solomon—Editor

A. E. Hamnmhmamzmz “llllam Gould Viral—Nature

Editor Albert Van Slclen Pulling—
Arthur Lawson—Asst. Manag- Canoe-tn;

"‘3 Edit" Kenneth s. Clark—Music
333001“! E91701“ Lloyd B. Sharp—Public Camps

E .
H2330 ‘gmggsmw‘ck James A. Crulkshank—Wlnter

Ruby M. Jolllfre Sports
an“: L1" comm“ C. Ward Crampton. MD.—
Lee F. Hanmer, Chairman Health

A. Mmdelstam, Executive Sec- .Abraham Mnndelstum — Dra-
retary matlcs

 

ment. A program in music, drama or the graphic
arts will not live if, as has been so often said,
we start with the “popular demand” or the “popu-
lar taste.” I believe that every normal human
being has a deep seated hunger for the best that
life has to offer. Let us in all humility offer the
best in our programs. \Ve are snobs if we feel
that we must stoop to levels beneath us and
gradually work up. The arts, like the “sun, moon.
and stars, brother,” and “likewise the wind on
the heath,” belong to all of us.

A choral group, singing real music, starting
with twenty members and ending with two hun-
dred is a far greater achievement than a commu-
nity sing starting with four thousand singing
jingles and ending where it began.

In the arts. let us be true to the best that is in
all of us. Let us avoid imitations and choose
those things that present the greatest challenge,
an awakening of the deepest interest, not those
that attract the greatest numbers. Tin foil. tinsel
and tissue paper do not lead on to greater devel—
opment. A decorative merry-go—round of outside
trimmings can never develop interests that make
us glad to be alive.

A person painting a landscape is doing some-
thing more than making a picture on canvas. He
is experiencing a deep communion with nature.
his eyes are open to colors that he never knew
existed, he is creating something that is essentially
his own and at the same time, he is establishing
an understanding, however small, with all the
painters since Giotto. He can never afterward
see a master’s painting without a thrill of fellow
feeling and an urge to greater effort to create and
understand. Can we expect such results from
copying pictures and pasting colored paper on
jam jars?

Recreation directors have high ideals and high
standards in athletics. They do not start people
off with just any old stroke in swimming be-
cause they “like to do it that way.” Isn’t it just
as important that we keep our standards high for
all phases of our recreation program and isn’t it
important that our recreation programs should
include all phases?

As our developing programs are a constant
challenge to us who are workers. they should be
an even greater challenge to those for whom they
have been planned. In the words of the good.
grey poet: “It is provided in the essence of things
that from any fruition of success, no matter
what, shall come forth something to make a
greater struggle necessary.”

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

EARLY DAYS 103

Early Days of the Playground

Association of America
(Continued from page 72)

addresses carried the gOSpel of play to a great
many audiences.

There is evidence that a very real service was
rendered the new movement by its first secretary,
Dr. Henry S. Curtis. Dr. Curtis showed much
originality in suggesting possible lines of activity.
He gave considerable time to interviewing indi-
viduals and explaining the possibilities of the new
movement to them. He never wavered in his faith
as to what the new movement might become. He
gave generously of his time to the problems of the
new Association.

The Association owes much to the charm and
personality. the solid faithful work, the energy,
and enthusiasm of Lee F. Hanmer. who served
as the first field secretary. Mr. Hanmer traveled
many thousands of miles over the country meet-
ing with local groups and helping them with work-
ing out local problems. Fifteen years after the
early trips of Mr. Hanmer, many communities
were still showing the influence of the early con-
tact with him.

Dr. Seth Thayer Stewart as a volunteer gave
most generously of his time and his ability as
editor of THE PLAYGROUND for three years. He
also served as Chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Association. Dr. Stewart had great
faith in the future of the national movement and
was ever ready to help.

The Playground Association of America owed
much to the sympathetic and understanding co-
operation Of the leaders Of the Russell Sage
Foundation. At the time of the Chicago Play
Congress, Robert W. DeForest of the Russell
Sage Foundation sent Lawrence Veiller to report
on the possibilities of the new movement. Mr.
Veiller was particularly impressed with Dr.
Gulick’s leadership and in his report to Mr.
DeForest urged strongly that financial aid be
given to the new movement. As a result of Mr.
Veiller’s report and the favorable consideration
given to it by the Russell Sage Foundation, Dr.
Gulick was employed by the Foundation on full
time and authorized to use part of his time to
serve as President of the Playground Association
of America.

Foundation leaders felt that the Association
should develop its own members and contributors
and its own financial support. The Russell Sage

 

Strong, Safe and Serviceable
“CHICAGO” Playground Equipment

“CHICAGO” Playground Apparatus and Equipment is of
latest design with all metal parts fully weatherproofed. It

has been thoughtfully designed and painstakingly built with
special attention to bearings and other wearing parts.
“CHICAGO” Equipment has an extra strength that makes
it safer, that enables it to stand up under all manner of
abuse and give long, satisfying service.

Write for Catalog No. 4.

CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT CO.
1835 West Lake Street CHICAGO, U.S.A.

BEFORE BUILDING OR RESURFACING YOUR

WE SERVE THE LEADERS
TABLE TENNIS “MALL OTHER GAMES

all standard TABLE-TENNIS equipment and_ Tables.in
various sizes and thicknesses. Sturdy construqtion to Wlth-
stand bard usage. Folding tables with and Without legs.

TABLE-TENNIS EQUIPMENT sold in sets_of various
types and individual parts at amazingly low prices. Table
covers and containers for the above equipment. Back-
gammon, Giant Backgammon, Chess, Checker Boards,
Lottos, Combination Boards, Crokinole Boards and separate
equipment, etc. Also other popular games.

Orders will receive our special attention no matter how
small. Can make immediate delivery.

Descriptive price-list gladly mailed upon request.

ARTCRAFT MFG. COMPANY
24 East let Street New York

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

104 EARLY DAYS

BERNAT YARNS

offer many possibilities for craft work in your recreational
program.

There are coarse warps and fillers for rug weaving, yarns and
designs for hooking, also fine wools, silks, and cottons for hand-

weaving, embroidery, knitting, and allied crafts.

Our magazine, the Handicrafter—published six times a year,
subscription price $2.00—offers many timely articles on the
crafts. There are projects suitable for children and for adults.

W'rite for sample: and price:

 

 BERNAT &   Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Foundation agreed to underwrite the cost of a

brief financial campaign to secure support for the
T E N N I S N E T S Association. Mr. John M. Glenn, Director of the
Foundation, has stated that this is one of the best

investments which the Foundation ever made. At
the same time the Foundation contributed all of
the time of Lee F. Hanmer from November, 1907,

u! also .—

BaCkSIOP New until June, 1909, and much of the time of Luther

Soccer Nets Halsey Gulick from November, 1907, until June,

, 1910. The records of the Association show that

CO” PfaCIICC NCIS on November 15, 1907, Lee F. Hanmer was
, elected field secretary of the association.

In fact The first annual Congress of the Association

was held in Chicago, June 20-22, 1907. This

 S   N  meeting had a most unusual quality of vitality,
__ freshness and enthusiasm. Though the number
of delegates attending was small, the spirit was
This house has long such that a very unusual interest was given to

the meeting.

It is clear that the time was ripe for the new
[or a“ the above' movement; that the country is greatly indebted to
the individuals who had an active part in shaping
the policies of the new Association and giving

W' A'  G U R p082: Tariffread the early history without feel-

35 Fulton Street NewYork ing that a very large number of individuals
throughout the country were waiting and eager

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

been headquarters

 

CHANGES IN PLAYGROUND DESIGN 105

to respond to the leadership provided and that
after all, the Association has never been the work
of one or two or three individuals, but has been
the expression of something deep in the nature of
America herself; that the early leaders helped to
give conscious expression to a movement for
which many had been longing.

Changes in Playground Design
(Continued from page 97-)
erally considered most suitable for public play-
grounds. The popularity of such apparatus and
its proved value has resulted during the last
quarter century in its installation in countless
private play areas such as at homes, apartment
houses, settlements, schools and churches.

Marked improvements have been made in the
construction of apparatus, resulting in greater
safety and longer use. In the early days wrought
iron pipe 'threaded and joined with “T’s” and
“L’s” was in common use. The weakening of
the pipe due to the threads and to the resulting
rust, has been eliminated by the present day use
of galvanized steel pipe which is joined by vari-
ous types of fittings which are bolted securely to
the pipe. The clumsy and not too durable ma-
terials formerly used in suspending swings, rings
and other apparatus from the frames have been
replaced by roller bearing drop forged and rust
proof hangers and clamps. The use of aluminum
for rings and grip handles on the giant stride
and of other rust proof materials are typical of
the efforts of manufacturers to contribute to the
safety and durability of their apparatus. The
use of wooden frames and supports and of rope
for suspending apparatus, so common twenty-
five years ago, has been almost entirely aban-
doned in favor of 'more durable materials.

In the smaller playgrounds of a quarter cen-
tury ago although a space was generally allowed
for games, often no special courts were laid out
for such games as basketball or volley ball. To—
day, however, one or more game courts are con—
sidered essential. In the large centers, special
areas for many of the team games now played
were provided but the following game areas now
frequently found in playgrounds and playhelds
were seldom, if ever, included in the early plans;
field hockey, volley ball, paddle tennis (a new
game), handball, soccer, roque, shufHeboard,
archery, horseshoes, clock golf and bowling.
During the last decade there has been a tre-
mendous increase in the number of tennis courts.

 

SUNSHINE
eanFRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dust! It’s so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347cu|tures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor

season on your playgrounds.
Send today for full information
and booklet No. 1159.

 

   

\ SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
_ Alkalies and Chemical Products Monufac.
6] Broadway New York

tured by The Solvoy Process Company
l  TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF
FLAKE—77%—80%

 

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

106 HOIV IT BEGAN

HAN DICRAFT WITH YARNS

TTRACT IVE

D e s i g n s and

Projects. Practical,

p0pular, and very
inexpensive.

Used by Handicraft

teachers every-
where. Write for

free illustrated cata-
logue.

“Pepperell” Yarns
excel

PEPPERELL BRAIDING COMPANY, Dept. R, East Pepperell, Mass.

 

«I» wc-ro-M-cne

Damon'er vacation playground for young
women at Powers Lake. \Visconsin. All land
and water sports. English hockey coach. Danish
gymnastics. Free instruction. Play or just rest.
Ideal environment, comfortable accommodations,
excellent food. uly 16 to Sept. 1. For infor-
mation address 'ccrctary,

Box 651. 5026 Greenwood Ave.. Chicago. Ill.

   
 
  

. . Standing on

COMMON GROUND

ReCreation and physical education have always
been interrelated, interdependent.

Problems in one field are of immediate con;
cern to workers in the other.

The contribution of the Journal of Health
and Physical Education is this—it gives you
that very important side of your work to
which you yourself have not the time to de'
vote sufficient study.

The experiences of others help you solve dif-
ficult problems.

New games: problems of administration: arti'
cles on swimming, diving, canoeing, hiking,
demonstrations. etc.; all appear from time to
time in “Health and Physical Education."

The subscription price is $2.00 a year. If
you are not acquainted with the Journal, send
for a sample copy. which you may obtain
without obligation. Please address Dept. G.

THE JOURNAL OF
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL

EDUCATION ” ”
Box 362, Ann Arbor, Mich.

 

    

How It Began
(Continued from page 71)

gates assembled with President Roosevelt at the
\Vhite House in accordance with arrangements
which had been made through Mr. Charles F.
\Veller. Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick spoke in be-
half of the assembled delegates and President
Roosevelt responded, emphasizing particularly

the necessity of giving the children a considerable
measure of freedom in their play.

During the first two years I had charge of
raising all the money that was necessary to carry
the Association, and also of the program of the
two first annual meetings.

Supt. Seth T. Stewart, Chairman of the Ex-
ecutive Committee was very helpful throughout,
and undertook the publication of the PLAYGROUND
MAGAZINE on his own initiative.

In order to secure a good representation of
City Ofiicials at our first Congress in Chicago.
I wrote a letter to the mayors of all the principal
cities, asking that they send a delegate to this
meeting. This letter was signed by President
Roosevelt and gave us our first general recog-
nition from the country at large.

In making arrangements for the first annual
meeting in Chicago, a group called together
through the assistance of Mary McDowell later
resolved itself in the Playground Association of
Chicago, and as such functioned for a number

of years.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

PUBLIC RECREATION AND LEISURE

JUNIOR-SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL CLEARING HOUSE

A Cooperative Study of this Field of Education

EDITORIAL OFFICE, SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
New YORK UNIVERSITY, New YORK CITY

VOLUME V CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING NUMBERS

No. 1. Advisement and Guidance

Chairman: RICHARD D. ALLEN, Assistant Superintendent

of Schools, Providence, Rhode Island ‘
James M. Glass Margaret Alltucker l\orton
\Villiam Ill. Proctor

No. 2. Miscellaneous Problems

Chairman: PHILIP W'. L. Cox, Professor of Secondary
Education, School of Education, New York Universxty
W. E. Hawley Paul S. Lomax Forrest E. Long

No. 6. Mathematics

Chairman:CTOHN R. CLARK, Lincoln School of Teachers

College, Olumbia University .
Philip W. L. Cox Charles J. Pieper John L. Tildsley
J. Andrew Drushel

No. 7. Clubs . _ .'

Chairman: F. T. SPAULDING, Graduate School of Educa-
tion, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Charles Forrest Allen Joseph Roemer Elbert K. Fretwell

No. 8. Creative Arts

107

Arthur D. \Vhitman
No. 3. Athletics

Chairman: H. H. RYAN. Principal University High

School, University of Wisconsin, Madison, VVisoonsin
Merle Prunty S. O. Rorem L. W. Rader

NO. 4. Visual Education

Chairman: RALPH E. PICKETT, Professor of Vocational
Education School of Education, New York University
Jay B. Nash

- Dorothy 1’. Mulgrave
No. 5. The Adolescent

John H. Shaver

Chairman: JOHN RUFI, Professor of Education, University

Earle U. Rugg

of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri
Calvin 0'. Davis W'. C. Reavis
Charles Forrest Allen

Chairman: ARTHUR M. SEYBOLD, Principal, Thomas Jeffer-
son Junior High School, Cleveland, Ohio
L. H. Bugbee Vincent Jones Howard R. Driggs
Robert A. Kissack Hughes Mearns

No. 9. Promotions and Graduations

Chairman: HARRISON H. VAN COTT, Supervisor of Junior
High Schools, State Department of Education, Albany,

New York
\V. H. Bristow Ernest L. Butteriield

No. 10. Wholesome Living

Chairman: \VlLLIs L. .UHL, Dean, School of Education,
University Of VVashingtOn, Seattle, Washington
Charles M. Gill Paul S. Miller Edwin Miller

\V. Carson Ryan, Jr. John \V. ‘Withers

Price for the ten numbers, 640 pages, $3.00
32 Washington Place, New York City

Public Recreation and Leisure
(Continued from page 86)

request from the people bond authorizations for
capital expenditures.

The duties of the Commission or Board should
be not only to meet present day needs and plan
for future needs in the acquisition and improve-
ment of lands and buildings for physical recrea-
tional uses throughout the year, but to conduct
a program that covers the held of all cultural
recreational activities, so that the desire of man
to sing with his fellows, to play instrumental
music with his fellows, to act with his fellows,
to dance with his fellows, to paint, to compose,
to sketch, to collect, even to walk and commune
with himself in quiet places away from a world
of machines, noise, and ugliness, is given oppor-
tunity of fulhlment and expression.

Why wait longer to realize on an investment
through which life in our country may so be
lived that it will yield back to all of us, rich and
poor, those satisfactions that only man’s intelli-
gence and common action can mine from under-
neath the surface of an existing environment—
the only satisfactions that make life worth living.

 

‘1

“FLEX-l-DRY” TENNIS COURTS

Patents Pending I

In use by Playground departments of cities of
Springfield, Holyoke and Chicopee, Massachusetts.

THESE MODERN COURTS GIVE:

Greater resiliency

Triple the playing hours
Immediate use after rain
Frost proof (winter playing)

No Upkeep expense

Surfaced with natural green slate granules and
marked with white they are beautiful, dustleSS and
non-glaring.

The markings will last a full season.

Our new illustrated booklet is ready.
Have you received your copy?

FRANKLIN KANE COMPANY
31 Sanford Street Springfield, Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

 

 

    

108 PLAY AND PRINTER’S INK

 
 
 

Guam NORMALSCHOOI.
 If Physical Education mm

:Be a. director of Physics] Education. playground supervisor,
dancing teacher, or swimming instructor. Two-year di-
ploma snd three-year B.P.E. ocurses for high school du-
stes. Free sp Ointment bureau. Faculty of train spe-
cialists. Oomp ete equipment. Fine dormitories. Catalog.

Fall term Opens September 14

Frances Musselman, Principal, 5026 Greenwood Avenue
Box 551 Chicago, lllinois

 
 

 

  

 

   

Special Certificates and College Degrees
O
for Students and Teachers

of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION

AND

ATHLETIC COACHING

Penn State Summer Session
lnter-Sesslon—June 15 to 26
Regular Session -—June 29 to August 7

Wide_ variety of .graduate and under-graduate courses
Prominent coachm eta . Modern gymnasmm. An
ideal environment or health and stu y.

Special Bulletin on Request
Address Director 0! Summer Session

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
State Collete, Ps. .

   
 

Vt eep the
children off
the streets ”

718

Cities and Towns Have
Adopted it Because it

Trouble
Proof

_..¢_

Built of Bronze, Brass,
Iron. . . . Fool-proof con-
struction. . . . . Fitted with
rustless Brass Pipe. . . . .
Each drink fresh from
water main. . . . . Self-
draining. . . . Anti-freezing.
. . . . Foot-controlled.

_g_
The Murdock Mfg. & Supply Co.

Established 1853
426 Plum St... Cincinnati, 0.

Outdoor Bubble font

 

    
    

Play and Printer's Ink

(Continued from page 76)

istence to the interest aroused in groups of citizens
by these pleas for the right of children to play.

The literature of the recreation movement
has greatly increased in the past two decades,
and today the Association has on its list
of publications such books as The Park
Manual, a study in two volumes of the
municipal parks of the country, County Parks,
a survey of county parks, Play A recs—Their Dc-
sz'gn and Equipment, Community Drama, Com-
munity Illusic, Handcraft, a number of city
surveys and research volumes. But this new
and more extensive library contains nothing
more basic, nor is there any sounder philosophy,
than that to be found in the pamphlets which laid
the foundation for the present day literature in
the leisure time field.

To Clark W. Hetherington and his committee
the leisure time movement owes a debt of grati-
tude for the Normal Course in Play which rep-
resented the first attempt at scientihc and com-
prehensive training of recreation workers. This
syllabus is still being effectively used in normal
schools and colleges.

A study of the early Year Books discloses
much that is interesting. The first Year Book.
published in 1907, was compiled by Leonard P.
Ayres, then associated with the Russell Sage
Foundation and now vice—president of the Cleve-
land Trust Company, whose statistics and pre-
dictions regarding the economic situation in
America are so widely quoted and used. The
accuracy of recreation statistics is sometimes
challenged, but we can feel certain that in 1907 ,
57 cities of 100,000 population conducted play-
grounds because we have Colonel Ayres’ author-
ity for the statement! In the interest of his-
tory, however, Colonel Ayres’ statement should
perhaps be recorded to the effect that “in some
cases the information published is not to be
trusted as absolutely “correct.” (Colonel Ayres
was a prophet, even then!)

They were distinctly “good old days” of ex-
perimentation, of pioneering, of planting seed
and watching it grow, pulling it up sometimes
to see why it wasn’t growing faster! And this
old timer counts it a rare privilege to have had

a small share in it all.

Please mention chnurrou when writing advertisers

MESSAGE OF RALPH T. O’NEIL 109

WHEN SOMEONE ELSE SPENDS YOUR MONEY

 

HERE are thousands of social agencies existing to relieve
suffering. They are spending your money. Wouldn’t you
like to know a little bit about the way in which it is done?

It may be that BETTER TIMES, The Welfare Magazine, will
introduce you to a whole new world, a world that makes a
science of ministering to the unfortunate, that translates a
charitable impulse into a practical act of relief.

BETTER TIMES is a compact little magazine that gives the news
of social work in authoritative, interesting and readable form. _
We know you will like it.

 

SUBSCRIPTION
BETTER TIMES gig:
151 Fifth Avenue New York City PER YEAR

Message Of Ralph T. O'Neil

(Continued from page 75) D I A M o N D

bring out various publications, the most recent of Official Pitching Shoes
which is “Playgrounds and Recreation for Your Carefully designed, accu-

- n - - - - rately balanced. Meet Na-
Community. This has. inspired action on the part tional Horseshoe Pitching As_
of Leglon posts, showmg them how to go about Ilsociation requirements. Popu-

- - - - ar with amateurs and begin-
handling their own problems in th1s regard. new as we” as old_time

Frequently Legion posts have invited repre— champs and pros: _
sentatives of the association to cooperate in devel- ungrgeuifs‘; d§3§éliigntaifi
oping community recreation plans, and the field ments, score-keeping, etc.
workers of the association have been aided by our millfrfgf’dly 5”" 'nforma'
local Legion organizations throughout the United Diamond ealk Horseshoe co.
States. 4610 Grand Ave. Duluth, Minn.

Our ideals, in many respects, rest on a common
ground, enriching community life, instilling the
sense of individual Obligation to One’s community,
and promoting health and principles of good citi-
zenship in the minds and hearts of our children
and their parents. It is my sincere desire that the
steady progress, which has been enjoyed in this
work by the Legion, due to the splendid and
wholehearted cooperation of the National Recrea—
tion Association, will be continued.

Ralph T. O’Neil,
National Commander,

The American Legion.
Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

 

110

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

“AThe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest—
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." “A

“AHere you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through—
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

 

SOUTHEDN

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

Child Welfare, March 1931
Leisure and Living, by J. \V. Faust
Physical Illiteracy, by James Edward Rogers
The Parents’ Magazine, April 1931
Making Play of Exercise, by Zella Van Ornum
Glimm
Playthings in Review, by Janet M. KnOpf
Books for Boys and Girls, by Alice Dalgliesh
The Architectural Record, February 1931
Stadium Planning and Design, by Myron W. Serby
Child iVelfare Magazine, April 1931
Shilll} Send My Child to Camp? by Ada Hart
r itt
What Is a Children’s Museum? by Catherine C.
Leach
Boys’ Club Round Table, March 1931
This issue is devoted almost entirely to various

phases of camping for boys.
The Grade Teacher, March 1931
Our Puppet Show, by Gladys H. Smith
The Survey Midmonthly, March 1931
A Possible J ustitication of Research, by Joseph Lee
Southern City, March 1931
The Status of Recreation in the South, by P. F.
Witherspoon
Southern Strides in Play, by M. Travis Wood
Municipal Recreation Center Houses in Texas
Building a City's Recreation Department, by Will
H. Mayes
Play Program Should Be Year Round, by Ralph F.
Lamar
Your City and Recreation, by W. E. Bowers
Scouting, March 1931
Stunts in Knifecraft, by E. J. Tangerman
How to Build a Model Duration Cabin MonOplane,
by H. S. Collin
How to Make a Model Napoleonic Coach
Parks and Recreation, April 1931
Design of Leominster Playground, by Herbert J.
Kellawa
Relief of Unemployed by \Vork on State Parks and
Forests, by \Vilbur L. Cross
Thirty Years of Park Golf Operation, by V. K.
Brown
Tennis Problems
West Chicago Playground Plans
The ScOpe of Sound Systems in Parks and
Amusement Resorts, by H. G. Cisin
The American City, April 1931
"Our Best Playground Idea”
Why Almost Every One in Minneapolis Plays, by
Charles E. Doell
Recreation DeveIOpment for Unemployment Relief
Shall l‘lav and Recreation Centers Be Operated on
Sunday? by C. A. Emmons, Jr.
A Municipal Orchestra in a City of 60,000—
Irvington, New Jersey
Junior Safety Cadets Make Fine Record—Milwaukee
Continued Progress of Pioneer Playground System
—Chicago
Kgioslha Uses Underground Sprinklers in Public
ar {5
Lighting for Night Tennis in Public Parks
Tennis—Court Lighting in Newark, New Jersey,
by Nelson A. Kieb

PAMPHLETS

Louden Playground, Gymnasium, Beach and Pool Equip-
ment, Catalog for 1931 listing new equipment and
improved apparatus. J. E. Porter Corporation,
Ottawa, Illinois.

Director’s Report Summer Playgrounds, Royal Oak
Township 1930

Directory of Settlements, Published in Neighborhood
December 1930

Please mention Racan'rron when writing advertisers

RECREATION LEGISLATION 11]

Recreation Legislation
(Continued from page 81)

Perhaps the most important need in the field of-

state legislation for development of local recrea-
tion is a thorough personal study in the states
themselves of all existing powers, no matter in
which code they may exist, which localities have
to develop public recreation service.

In this connection it would be necessary not
only to know the state law but the more impor-
tant state supreme court decisions interpreting
these laws, particularly those of a general nature
where powers are not expressly stated and there-
fore not always generally used. An example of
the importance of this is evidenced by the situa-
tion in Kansas where several supreme court de-
cisions defining the term “park” include within
the meaning of “park” such recreation areas as
playgrounds, swimming pools, athletic fields, golf
courses, and so on.

Upon completion of such a study it would then
be possible to determine the legislative defects
in the various states and to draft a bill in each
state which would correct such defects and bring
to the localities the full general powers which it is
generally recognized localities should now have
for the development of public recreation. This
would help to correct a somewhat general present
practice on the part of individual localities to
have piecemeal laws passed from time to time to
meet some particular current local situation to

the confusion of the general legislative situation.

Recreational Philosophy
(Continued from page 89)

mature thinking about social phenomena can have
any conception of the breadth and depth of these
prejudices—the common attitudes of the most in-
telligent classes. Lawyers, doctors, professional
men in general and school men in particular
thought in terms of “work” or so-called “serious”
efforts. Play was plainly a waste of time and
of value only to let off “surplus steam.” Even
after the Playground and Recreation Association
began its promotional campaign, the prejudices
against its objectives were frequently voiced with
violences, sneering contempt, and sometimes cruel
personal thrusts. Only by the presentation of
facts which no one could ignore were the attitudes
of people interested in social problems and then
of the more intelligent and influential people
changed.

I Licensed under Patents 0!

 
         

    

 

' ill! _
ll  "1"

' %ll \
I

 

    
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 

     
 

 

 

.-

*'  I“ “ll
fir-ll l l——  h 7-
. l:-

. | H l t 

.5! I I _. l “as”:

/ s .. . a???“ 

. J

"Junglezym" Trade Mark
October 23. 1923. March 25. Registered United States
1924 Patent Office

The
Junglegym

No. 2

You will see this piece of
play apparatus on playgrounds
everywhere you go. Physical
Educators are unanimous in
their praise of it since it not
only keeps the youngsters in the
fresh air but also provides a
means of healthy exercise with-
out supervision.

J UNGLEGYM NO. 2
Capacity 75 Children

   

Playground
Department W
W Chicopee,
° Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

112 BOOK REVIEWS

Book Reviews

THE ART OF DIRECTING PLAYS. D. C. Ashton. Eldridge
Entertainment House, Inc., Franklin, Ohio. $1.50.

In this little volume it has been the purpose of the
author to present the intricate mechanism of play pro-
duction in the most simple and practical way possible.
The book is designed primarily to aid directors of little
theatres and Of school organizations, and it presents an-
swers to innumerable questions on the subject of direct-
ing which have been brought to the attention of the

author.
ART IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. Margaret E. Mathias.

Charles Scribner's Sons, New York. $2.50.

For all interested in creative art and in fostering and
developing the child’s natural impulse to express his
feelings about his experiences through the use of mate-
rials, this book will prove exceedingly helpful. Many Of

the children’s drawings are reproduced.

STAGE SCENERY AND LiGIiTING. Samuel Selden and H.
aSSellman. F. S. Crofts and Company, New York.

..0.

Heralded as the most comprehensive and practical
volume on the technical problems of the stage which has
yet appeared, this book is of value to the most experi-
enced theatrical technician and the amateur. Mr. Selden,
associate director of The Carolina Playmakers, Univer-
sity of North Carolina, has prepared the material on
scenery. while Mr. Sellman, technical director, University
Theatre of the University of Iowa, is responsible for the
material on lighting.

SONGS FOR CAMPS AND CONFERENCES. National Board of
the Young Womens Christian Associations of the
United States. The Womans Press, 600 Lexington
Avenue, New York. $.10.

Seventy-six songs, including a number of folk songs and
spirituals, appear in this sheet. Unless otherwise noted,
the music for all the songs will be found in the Y. \V.

C. A. Song Book.
THE TEACHER IN THE NEw SCHOOL. Martha Peck

Porter. World Book Company. Yonkers-on-Hud-
son, New York. $2.00.

In the new conception of education which is based on
the child's abilities, interests. emotions, physical equip-
ment and his adjustment to the social group, the role
played b the teacher is of vital importance. The Teacher
in the era School is a detailed study of the teacher’s part
in organizing material and conducting classwork in har-
mony with the principles of child centered schools. It
describes the essential methods and underlying procedures
based on children's interests and needs so that other

I

Colonel Michael Friedsam

In the death of Colonel Michael Friedsam
the National Recreation Association has lost
a real friend and supporter. For a number
of years he contributed personally to the
Association's work. In more recent years,
as President of the Altman Foundation, his
interest and suppOrt were enlarged.

The Association thought of him as an
“understanding friend.” In the breadth of
his interests at large space was reserved for
those activities promoted for the enrichment
of life. He understood thoroughly how
much the wise use of leisure could contribute
to this purpose and supported generously
agencies working toward this end.

 

teachers may adapt these procedures to their local school

situations.

CAMPING AND EDUCATION. Bernard S. Mason. The
McCall Company. New York. $3.00.

This volume, dealing with camp problems from the
campers’ viewpoint, was awarded the prize offered by the
Redbook Magazine for the most constructive and creative
contribution to the theory and practice of organized
camping. It discusses such problems as character effects
of camping. camp control. leadership, methods of pro-
gramming. and camp activities. A comprehensive bib-
liography is given and there are a number of illustrations
and tables.

BIENNIAL SURVEY OF EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES
1928—1930 (Chapter X. Hygiene and Physical Edu-
cation). Marie M. Ready and James Frederick
Rogers. M. D. Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington. D. C. $.05.

These advance pages (Volume I.) tell briefly of the
findings of a study of hygiene and physical education
made by the Ofiice of Education.

THE ARCHITECTURAL RECORD—March, 1931. F. W.
Dodge Corporation. 115-119 West 40th Street, New
York. Single copy $.75.

Play Area: in Apartment H oases is an interesting and
practical article appearing in the March issue of The
Architectural Record. which in recent issues has had a
number of articles of interest to recreation workers.
POPULAR HOMECRAi-‘T—The Homeworkshop Magazine.

General Publishing Company, Incorporated, 737
North Michigan Avenue. Chicago. Illinois.

Popiifar Homer-raft is a new bi-monthly magazine
whose slogan is "Build It Yourself.” Families in which
the homeworkshop occupies an important place will find
exceedingly helpful this magazine with its practical sug-
gestions for making articles of all kinds from copper
match box holders to step-down transformers. The cost

of a year's subscription is $2.00.
COPING SAW WORK. Ben \V. Johnson. The Manual

Arts Press. Peoria, Illinois. $.40.
This manual for teachers and leaders in handcraft ac-
tivities has practical suggestions to oerr recreation
workers.

Officers and Directors Of the National
Recreation Association

. OFFICERS
{OSEPH LEE. President
OHN H. FINLEY. First Vice-President
OHN G. WINANT, Second VieePresident
ORERT GARRETT. Third Vice-President
GURTAYUR T. KIRRY. Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER. Secretarv

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE. Carlisle. Pa.
WILLIAN BUTTERWORTH. Moline. Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK. Philadelphia. Pa.
HENRY L. CORRETT. Portland. Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. CuquR. Jacksonville. FIR.
F. TRURRR DAYISON. Locust Valley. L. I.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAs A. EDISON. West Orange. N. J.
IOIIN H. FINLEY. New York. N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE. New York. N. Y.

RODERT GARRETT. Baltimore. Md.

MRS. CHARLES A. GOODwIN. Hartford, Conn.
AUSTIN E. GRIrrITHs. Seattle. Wash.
WILLIAII HALE HARRNESS. New York. N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York-N: Y. .

MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox. Michigan City. Ind.
MR3. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE. Plainf'ield. N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY. New York. N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER. Greenmch, Conn.
ROEERT LASSITER. Charlotte. N. C.

JOSEPH LEE. Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E Looms. New York. N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY. Springfield. .Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadel hia. Pa.

WALTER A. MAY. Pittsburg . Pa.

CARL E. MILLIRRN, Augusta. Me:

Miss ELLEN SCRIPTS. LRJolla. Calif.

HAROLD H. Swrrr. Chicago. Ill. u
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH. New York.  Y.
MRS. JANES W. WADSWORTH. JR.. Washington, D. C.
i. C. WALSH, New York. N. Y.

 

OHN G. WINANT. Concord. N. H. .

IRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN'. JR.. Plamfield. N. J.
FREDERch M. WARRURG. New York, N. Y. 1.
C. S. WuTON. Scranton. PA.

