MacMurmy Collage Lil-mm?

What Matters ?

War Matters: One or two more world wars
and man is done for. As nations, men must learn
justice without war.

Unemployment Matters: Terribly. A civi—
lization that cannot provide work“ for all cannot

command respect.

Religion Matters: Take away faith—faith
in a world in which the best can be made vic-

torious—and suicides multiply.

Recreation Matters: Heaven in another
world is all right, but a little of life, comrade—

ship, creation, fulfillment, achievement, joy,
happiness every day. The work of the world is
better done by those who have learned to play.
They who help children to form habits of play,
of keeping play in right proportion to the rest
of life, who are trying to make the world a place
of “abundant living” with recreation in right
relationship to work, deal with a fundamental.
problem as old as man is, as eternal as man him-
self is. They deal with one of the few things

that matters everlastingly.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

Creative Play— the Gift the Home

H. Armstrong Robcrts

The eager treasure-hunts of little boys, All wind-bent grass, and every sun-swept hill
And all pretend of childhood-broken toys To race great shadows in and finally spill

And bits of china hidden in a tree; Laughing beneath a berry-hidden wall,-

Strange tales of giants believed respectfully The gold-drenched trails up mountain slopes in fall
By credulous grown-ups; all paths leaf-brown,- Where dryads surely dwell—

And little worlds in puddles upside down; These are the things will Speak to us of you

Warm roadside pools to wade barefooted in Who made our make-believe reality,

After a summer storm; each backyard sea Who found reality a make-believe

For sailing wooden boats to victory. And taught us that all fairy-tales come true.

—Peggy Pond Church

 

Recreation for April 1931 . 12......

Acquiring Parks and Playgrounds
Through Condemnation

By W. C. Bernard

HILE the necessity for parks, play-
grounds, and open spaces in our cities
has long ago been recognized, many
things have conspired against their acquisition.

Procrastination of public of—
ficials, lack of interest and
inadequate provisions for ii—
nancing, all played their
parts in preventing the adop-
tion of comprehensive plans,

1*”? '
.

programs, or policies, for providing recreation

facilities.

During the past lifteen or twenty

years, however, an insistent public demand has
brought about the adoption of many such plans,

A city need no longer hesitate to
undertake a park and recreation
program, according to Mr. Bernard,
engineer and valuation consultant
of St. Louis, who tells how chang-
ing methods and legal procedure
are helping to solve the problem.

i
7r

a | ‘
all ' f ’35;
| .’

t ‘ I";

'r
1. y.
I?! .



 

some of which have already reached the point
of physical completion.
which has been made in this direction is attribut-
able to the efforts of public-spirited individuals

Much of the progress

and local, state, and national
recreation associations in CO-
operation with live city of-
iicials. Conversely, most of
the difficulty encountered has
been chargeable to that group

....?.. *L .
i

Land acquired for a golf course in Queens, N. Y.

3

4 ACQUIRING PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS

 

Courtesy Union County Park Commission, N. I.

County Park Commission;
are working engineering
miracles with waste land.

of individuals better known as “private-spirited
citizens.” These people, as a class, still labor
under the delusion that their ownership of land
is an inalienable right, and that when private
property happens to be needed for a public use
it becomes the privilege of the individual to
exact from the public whatever price his con-
science will permit. Judging from prices paid
for property by some communities after nego-
tiation on the open market, this notion seems to
have been shared by public
officials. In defense of the
payment of such excessive
prices, these officials might
point out the uncertainty
of securing fair awards,
and the interminable delay
involved when acquisition
is effected through eon-
demnation. Past experi-
ences of many communities
with obsolete procedure
and inadequate laws to
some extent justify their
decisions.

The mounting cost of
buying their way through.
however, has caused cities
with comprehensive pro-
grams to take steps to im-
prove their p o si tion 3.
Weak laws have been

amended; antiquated pro-
visions of procedure have
been supplanted; the assur-
ance of obtaining equitable
findings has been increased
through qualification re-
quirements p l a c e (1 upon
jurors or commissioners;
the prospect of securing
adequate benefit assess-
ments has been strength-
ened by the keeping of per-
formance records in similar
improvements. Coincident
with these changes, mod-
ern methods of financing
public improvements have
been adopted.

Where such c h an g e s
have been effected there is
no longer any reason for
the city to approach a park and playground pro-
gram with timidity. From studies of population
densities, present requirements and expectancy of
future developments, necessity for the location of
parks within certain areas can be demonstrated.
That parks and playgrounds are improvements
for which public funds may be expended and for
which assessments of benefit may be levied, is a
matter which has been removed from controversy
by court decisions. That this character of improve-
ment, when properly located, is conducive to high-
er land values in the immediate neighborhood, has

A golf course emerges from
a seemingly hopeless swamp.

 

Courtesy Union County Park Commission, N. I.

ACQUIRING PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 5

been demonstrated beyond
any doubt. Local improve-
ments can be carried on
only so long as the users
and beneficiaries of the
improvements are willing
to pay back to the com—
munity some part of the
increment which has been
bestowed upon their prop—
erty by the improvement.
When a community has
placed its house in order
through the modernization
of its laws, it need not
hesitate to embark upon a
comprehensive program of
necessary improvements.

Procedure Involved

Under our system of
government, when our duly '
e l e c t e d representatives
have declared necessity, enacted the proper legis—
lation, and provided adequate means of financing
an improvement, it becomes incumbent upon the
administrative officers of the community to pro-
ceed with the improvement. They must pro-
ceed under the law as it has been heretofore
established and interpreted. This implies due

In 1929 the Saw Mill River Parkway
delighted the hearts of motorists.

.a‘ f

I..-

Courtesy W estchester County, N. Y ., Park Commission

 

 

1

3* ‘
I » 1
- - a a ' i ..
i - i . I
I ' r , _.
'  -- um“  L , sums Ans: y .m..m_(.&._‘ “ a , 3 i i 5

 

Courtesy Westchcster County, N. Y., Park Commission

In 1927 this location in Westchester
County was an eyesore to passersby.

process, adequate compensation, equitable assess—
ments and consummation of the project in ac-
cordance with some preconceived plan. Due
process and adequate compensation can be as—
sumed. The city and the property owner, each
for his own protection, will demand that the
utmost precision be observed in the condemna-
tion proceedings. Public
enthusiasm for the im—
provement will assure its
physical completion. The
operation which commands
\ the least interest and sup-
port, is the levy of a fair
assessment of benefit.
The disinclination of the
general public to concern
itself with the problem of
special benefits is making
the task of providing pub-
lic improvements increas—
ingly difficult. This is
particularly true of such
projects as parks and play-
grounds, where the effect
upon the value of neighbor-
ing land is likely to be less
apparent and slower of
realization than the incre-
ment resulting from a
street widening or opening.

6 ACQUIRING PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS

Because of this situation, considerable study has
been given to the problem of financing parks and
playgrounds. Some communities have success-
fully used the assessment method for recouping
part or all of the cost; some have carried on with
the aid of bond issues, without levying any local
assessment; some have used a combination of
these methods. Recently the use of the power
of Marginal Condemnation, commonly known as
Excess Condemnation, has been considered as
oEering a more positive and equitable solution
of the problem.

This power was originally intended to assure
the establishment and preservation of an orderly
development of property adjacent to an improve-
ment, in keeping with the contemplated public
use. Because such a development follows basic
principles of land economics, its operation will
necessarily result in an increase in value of abut-
ting property, to a point beyond the normal ex-
pectancy for the same improvement if left to
the chance development of individual owners.
The statement scarcely needs argument; it is
axiomatic that the best economic return from real
estate obtains when it is put to the use for which
it is best adapted, and continues only so long as
the combined properties, land and buildings, are
susceptible of that use.

The appropriation of a border strip of land
surrounding a tract or block to be taken for park
purposes, is warranted on four main grounds :—

First, it is a taking for a public use, which is
comprehended under the power of Marginal
Condemnation.

Second, it can be justified under the ordinary
powers of eminent domain.

Third, it assures a sound develOpment of the
surrounding property compatible with the pro-
posed improvement.

Fourth, it will produce the best economic re-
turn on the investment by precluding any except
the best use.

Appropriation by Excess
Condemnation

The appropriation of such a
border strip for any public use
by excess or marginal con—
demnation constitutes a reason-
able application of- the well

domain. When this issue was
recently raised in the case of

That parks and playgrounds are im-
provements for which public funds VClopment 0f bOUIeV'aTdS by
may be expended and for which as-
sessments of benefit may be levied,
is a matter which has been removed
.irom controversy by court decisions.
That this character of improvement,
established power of eminent when properly located, is conducive
to higher land values in the imme-
diate neighborhood, has been demon-
the City of Cincinnati versus strated beyond any doubt.

Vester‘, the United States Supreme Court chose
to avoid it with the same skill and adroitness of
a seasoned skater who finds himself upon thin
ice. In support of the contention, the City, in
its brief, prepared and submitted by the Honor-
able John D. Ellis, City Solicitor, and Honorable
E. F. Alexander, Assistant Solicitor, presented
the following arguments:

“The fact that the people of eight states2 have
provided in their constitutions for excess con-
demnation is in itself an indication that they
considered that there was a need for such a
power. * * *”

“'* * * The British Parliament in 1845
passed the Land Clauses Consolidation Act, and
thereafter numerous special acts each providing
for excess condemnation: * * *”

“ * * * France in 1852 enacted such a law.
a: a: a: n

“ * * * Belgium passed an excess condem-
nation statute in 1867 * * * ”

“ * * * The Lex Adickes, passed by the
Prussian Landtag in 1902, is the first German
application of an interesting phase of excess
condemnation. * * * ”

“* * * The charter of the city of Mon-
treal, 1913. No. 421, gives the power of excess
condemnation to the city and the law of Ontario
grants the power to the City of Toronto * * * ”

“* * * The City of London has applied
excess condemnation to a very great extent. Be-
tween 1855 and 1913 it executed one hundred
and three street proceedings in which excess
property was appropriated. The Northurnber-
land Avenue Improvement was one of these.
The greatest project was the Kingsway Improve-
ment from Holborn to the Strand. The total
area taken was twenty-eight acres, of which
twelve and one-quarter acres were actually oc-
cupied by the street and fifteen and three-quar-
ters acres were taken as excess and used for
building sites. * * * ”

“ * * * French experience
centers largely around the de-

Baro n Haussmann between
1852 and 1869. In that period
excess condemnation was used
in building fifty—six miles of
streets. * * *”

“ * * * Brussels and Liege

 

1281 U. S. 439

2California, . Massachusetts, Michigan.
New Yprk, tho. Rhoda Island, Virginia.
and \Visconsm.

ACQUIRING PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 7

r nun-r ‘r' "

have applied the Bel-
gian Law in numer-
ous municipal im-
provements. * * * ”

In connection with
this case, it should be
noted that the United
States Supreme
Court, in ruling ad—
versely upon the
City’s appeal, did not
follow the District
Court of Appeals in
holding that the pro-

the excess land was

being taken was “not a public use within the
meaning of that term, as it heretofore has been
held.” The Supreme Court, ignoring this neat
and expeditious bit of temporizing, cut through
all the other issues involved, to find against the
City on the grounds of non-conformity with the
local laws, by virtue of the fact that the object
of the eXcess appropriation was not set forth
in the petition as required by the Ohio State
Law. In its closing statement, the Court saw
fit to call attention to the fact that it was not
passing upon the question of constitutionality of
the provision granting the power of excess con-
demnation. This action is significant of an ap-
parent unwillingness on the part of our Supreme
Court to interfere with the right of a state to
regulate its own internal affairs.

Courtesy Idaho Chamber of Commerce

Beaches are among a city’s most valued possessions. The
posed use for \Vhlch beach at Payette Lakes, Idaho,is a recreational asset for Boise. a 11 d

--

  
 

..-' Ordinary Appropri-

. r 

   

 _ .  ation for Housing

  
 

'1

Purposes

- '4

  

The appropriation
of a border strip of
land surrounding an
area being condemned
for park purposes,
can be justified under
the ordinary powers
of eminent domain,
if taken for housing
purposes. New York
Massachusetts

have already made
provision in their laws for the acquisition and
resale or lease of land for this purpose. It is
a proper public use under the modern, liberal
construction of the term which the courts have
accepted. They have recognized the furnishing
of utilities—electricity, gas, water, sewers, tele-
phones, and railroads,—as being a necessary pub-
lic use, and have sustained laws and legislative
enactments granting public utility corporations
the right of condemnation, upon the mere dec—
laration of necessity by the corporation. Having
bestowed upon public utility corporations the
right to condemn such property as may become
necessary for their economic and efficient oper-

Queensboro, New York, is for-
tunate in having in Kissena Park

a beautiful lake and beach.

 

8 ACQUIRING PARKS AND. PLAYGROUNDS

ation, the state can hardly deny its municipal
corporations similar rights. If the furnishing of
utilities to the housing unit is a public necessity
then certainly the assembly of land upon which
to erect the unit in which these utilities are in-
stalled, is a public necessity of equal or greater
importance. That the power of eminent domain
should be invoked by municipalities for housing
purposes seems a fair

and IOgical conclusion.
There should be little dif-

“In a very real sense the ordinary excess con-
demnation undertaking is a zoning enterprise on
an equitable basis. The city cannot very well
compel the owners of mutilated buildings to
tear them down and erect suitable ones. Nor
can it compel the owners of remnant lots to
aggregate them and resubdivide them in harmony
with the improvement. To make possible the
achievement of these
ends, the city compen-
sates the owners for their

. Acquired Acquired by
ficulty encountered 1n by Direct Condemnation r e m n a n t s, aggregates
persuading the courts that . P“'°h“° P'°°”dmg‘ them, resubdivides them
- f  - ho th April 30, 1924. . . . 54 parcels. . . . . parcels d H H .”
thls use a S WIt In 6 April 30, 1925. . 363 parcels. . . . . parcels an 50 5 mm m I re-

meaning of the term pub— April 30, 1926. .

lic use as it has been April30, 1928..

696 parcels. . 126 parcels
April 30, 1927. .1,187 parcels. .234 parcels
534 parcels. . 126 parcels

strictions which are suit-
able to the zone created

heretofore liberally con- April 30, 1929. . 266 parcels. . 85 parcels by the improvement.
Strued. When such a April 30, 1930. . 3—2-2 parcels.  parcels  interest on the
taking is carried out in Totals . . . . . .3,322 parcels. .659 parcels part of the city, besides

conjunction with an ap-
propriation of the adja-
cent land for park pur-
poses, the merit of both
projects is enhanced.

Sound Development
Assured

The apprOpriation for housing of a border
strip of land surrounding a proposed park as-
sures an orderly, residential development of ad—
joining property. By reason of the permanency
of restrictions placed by the city upon its subse-
quent use, such appropriation has a tendency to
increase the degree of benefit and enjoyment
offered by the park. As an assurance of perma-
nency, if this strip or any portion of it is to be
leased, the conditions and covenants under which
it is to be used should be plainly set out in
the lease. If it is to be conveyed to private
ownership, future usage can be absolutely Fixed
by deed restriction with the penalty of reversion
upon non-conformity. Such a provision should
be reinforced by proper zoning restrictions,
which would act as a further safeguard against
a change of use. Even though it might be pos-
sible under a public sale for delinquent taxes to
vitiate the restrictions of record, the city, having
an insurable interest in the adjoining park prop-
erty, could preclude any change of use by re-
quiring compliance with the provisions of the
zoning law.

The city’s position with regard to any excess
appropriation is probably best indicated in the
following paragraph, taken again from the city’s
brief in the V ester case:

Of the above total of 659 titles which .
vested by condemnation, agreements as to ence “71th proper park
values were subsequently reached with 268
owners. Including these agreements, more
than 90 per cent of the above total number

of parcels were acquired by purchase. and well being in the

From Watcher!" County
Park Commission 1930 Annual Report

precluding any interfer-

use, would create a feel-
ing of safety, security,

minds of residents of the
district served, thereby
providing further inducement for a sound resi-
dential development of all property within its
range of influence.

Best Economic Use of Land-

The use of an assembled border strip of land
surrounding a public park for the purpose of a
comprehensive housing development, constitutes
the best economic use to which such land could
be put. This is particularly true in old com-
munities where adequate park and playground
facilities have never been provided, and it be-
comes necessary for the city to resort to the tak-
ing of private property for this purpose. The
furnishing of these facilities itself has a stabiliz-
ing effect upon the tenure of occupancy of prop-
erty in the district which the improvement serves.
The permanent restrictions by deed and zoning,
to which this border strip is subjected by this
operation, constitute the best possible insurance
against the dry rot of obsolescence due to
changing usage, which is so sadly characteristic
of the older residential districts of American
cities. The assurance of a comprehensive de—
velopment of this border strip thus assembled
either by the city itself or by its lessees or as-
signees, furnishes an incentive for the similar

(Continued on page 48)

In the Child's Play World

By Mary ]. Breen

National Recreation
Association

With all the "appointments" the family makes,
one to stay at home and play together might

be in order.

the opening session of the White House

Conference on Child Health and Protec-
tion, set forth the values of the home as one of
the primary safeguards of child life. “After we
have determined every scientific fact, after we
have erected every public safeguard, after we
have constructed every edifice for education or
training or hospitalization or play, yet all these
things are but a tithe of the physical, moral, and
spiritual gifts which motherhood gives and home
confers.” As one of those. who are sincerely in-
tereSted in the welfare of all children, he places a
proper evaluation on the contribution of other
institutions, realizing, nevertheless, that none of

P RESIDENT HOOVER, in his address at

 

them can guarantee a child the same

chance for complete living as can
the home.

The home is the center of a

child’s universe, the prism through

which he sees and interprets the world about him.
In it he builds his hopes, his attitudes, his abilities,
to adjust himself to this “world of shifting

scenes.” He brings to it the joys and sorrows of

childhood, the tireless energy of a dauntless ad-
venturer, and the sparkle and freshness of new
hope. From it he demands the right to laugh and
play—for play is growth, and growth is life.
Spontaneous play, whether in the home or on
the outside, is one of the easiest forms of social
intercourse. Through wholehearted participation
in home play activities parents and children come
to know each other and to lay the foundation
for that happy relationship which is the greatest
protection against future stress. Nevertheless it

9

10 IN THE CHILD’S PLAY WORLD

is a mistake to expect that children will accept
their parents as friends in the same way that
they accept their playmates. Parents are al—
ways grown-ups to their children, symbols of
all that is significant and vital in life, heroes
around which are built first ideals. To become
their friends, parents must enter into the games
like good sports without sacrihcing the dignity
upon which rests their children’s reSpect. Nor
must they dominate the life of their children to
the exclusion of normal, wholesome play inter-
ests. Many childhood days have been robbed
of richness because of the indulgent concern of
devoted parents. The boy whose father builds
for him a tennis court and an improvised swim-
ming pool so that he will be satisfied always to
stay at home, is robbed of the joy of adventure,
and of the real friendship which comes from
roughing it with other “kids.”

With all the present attractions which take the
family away from the home, it is sometimes neces-
sary to set aside a family play time just as one
makes a business appointment. One family desig-
nates Friday evening of each week as “home play
night.” Both children and parents tacitly agree
that no engagements will be alluring enough to
entice them from home on that occasion. Some-
times the parents plan a surprise party for the
children inviting their playmates to share the fun.
At other times children surprise the parents with
games originated eSpecially for the family circle.
More often play is informal, the program starting
with table conversation and ending in one of those
never-to—be-forgotten dramas staged behind win-
dow screens in regal robes of out—worn cast-offs.

Probably the best home play activities are those
which are unplanned and which grow out of
the natural interest of both parents and children.
Collections of things—stamps, beetles, stones-:—
although the private posses-
sion of the owner, bring a
splendid interchange of ideas
and interests. All of us have
seen the man who takes
home odd stamps for his lit-
tle boy or the girl who picks
up paper match clips for her
big brother.

Group singing welds fam-
ily ties and frees tension.
Storytelling not only brings
color and a relief from drab-

ness, but serves many times
as an introduction to books

We built a ship upon the stairs

All made of the back-bedroom chairs,
And filled it full of sofa pillows

To go a-sailing on the billows.

We took a saw and several nails,
And water in the nursery pails,-
And Tom said, "Let us also take

An apple and a slice of cake;"—- ural, spontaneous, and in
Which was enough for Tom and me

To go a-sailing on, till tea.
—Robert Louis Stevenson. dren.

and results in a lifelong love for good read-
ing. Woodland tramps with snow under
foot and stars over head lend enchantment
to the lives of both children and grown-
ups. Many fathers have first become acquainted
with their children while helping them build model
boats or airplanes. One family’s constructive play
project developed into a small community enter-
prise. It started with the building of an outdoor
fireplace, which, when finished, became a regular
meeting place for families throughout the neigh—
borhood. Stories told and confidences exchanged
will always enrich the memories of those who
gathered there.

The problem of providing adequate facilities
for home play becomes increasingly more diffi—
cult. Although fewer indoor playrooms and less
back yard play space limit home play Oppor—
tunities, it remains one of the greatest adult re—
sponsibilities to set aside some corner in the home,
garage or yard which a child can call his own,
where he can play with his friends or be alone as
he chooses.

Children need idle hours in which to let their
fancies roam. Even we adults with our prosaic
minds look back with undisguised delight on the
days when attics were regions to be explored
and trunks were treasure houses lit for kings or
fairy courts. If our memories are vivid enough
we recall times when bedboards became clipper
ships in which we sailed over waves of feathery
down, and when with knives as sabres, we com-
manded a group of marching grenadiers—perhaps
an admiring brother or sister. Adults are rarely
identified with those scenes. They were the inven—
tions and exclusive possessions of childhood. It
is only when children are alone that they see
trains in rocking chairs, airplanes in packing
boxes and boats in washtubs. It is in their own

play world that they create
and discover the things that

A GOOD PLAY are so essential to their

growth and happiness.
There are those who main-
tain that home play requires
effort, concentration, pa—
tience and restraint. \Vhat it
requires most of all is a real
play spirit. The best home
play is that which is nat-

itself joyous and satisfying
to both parents and chil-

The

Westchester Workshop

By Chester G. Marsh

Director, Westchester Workshop

 Westchester Workshop is
a new project of the West-

chester County, New York,
Recreation Commission that is meet-
ing with an eager response from all
parts of the county. Located in the
new County Center, the Workshop
has established classes and group ac-
tivities to encourage interest in the
arts and crafts and in nature lore.
The program of the Workshop has
been planned in the same spirit in
which the Recreation Commission
provides opportunity for participa-
tion in play days and athletic events,
and in cOnsequence the sketching
groups and classes draw people who
come for widely different reasons.
Many are novices looking for instruc-
tion; others are artists who are glad
to find companionship in their work,
while still others—and these form the
largest proportion—Hare mothers who
painted or carved a few years ago
but have not had a chance to “touch
a brush” since the children came.
There are three departments in the
Westchester Workshop—the Nature
Lore Workshop, the Handicraft
WorkshOp, and the Workshop of the
Arts.

The Nature Lore W0 r ksh o p
through exhibits, lectures, special

projects, and activities invites acquaintance with
In an attractive room with
young and

the world of nature.
comfortable chairs and a fireplace

3

 

Not too young to know
the joy of creative art.

old study the stars, making their
own telescopes and constellation lan-
tern slides, study the formation of
the earth, make maps, collect, polish
and mount stones, form camera clubs
and study composition, developing
their plates and films in a specially
constructed dark room.

These interests naturally carry
over into the Handicraft Workshop
where classes in metal craft and
jewelry include instruction in mount-
ing the stones found on field trips
from the Nature Lore Workshop.
There are also classes in bookbind-
ing, leather tooling, block printing,
weaving, batik, sewing, basketry and
other crafts. Housewives, engineers,
clerks, teachers, social workers and
merchants crowd these classes until
it is almost impossible for the small
staff of workers to meet the growing
demand.

The Handicraft classes go hand in
hand with the art groups. A class
in design has a group that deveIOps
patterns to be used in batik, stencil-
ing, block printing or leather tooling.
This department has classes in cre-
ative art, painting and drawing, out-
door sketching, cartooning and com-
mercial art, and in the near future
will have groups for scene design,

pottery, and sculpture.
In cooperation with the Workshop the newly

(Continued on page 49)
11

A Fran-Edie Duplex
Playhouse for the Back Yard

With Details

for Construction

HE designing and construction of children’s The Setting
Tplayhouses has not kept pace with progress The back yard is a
in home building. Too often little or no grassed area, 30 feet by
planning is given to the construction of children’s Fm the Y°""9" Chil' 85 feet, enclosed with a
playhouses and to other back yard play equipment. dun there is nothing 6-foot heavy galvanized
The back yard, unkempt, unSIghtly, and little so satisfactory as a Wire fence. Around the
used, should properly be a healthful and recreative edges of the fence are
adjunct of the present day home. Air, sunshine, playhm’se' bricked borders, 18
and outdoor activity so inches wide, in which

difficult in city life knock
at the back door. The
back yard is commonly
thought of either as a
place to park discarded
articles, or on the other
hand as a place of
beauty only displaying
the usual “Keep Off
the Grass” signs. A
little thought, energy,
time and money can
transform the yard into
a family recreation cen-
ter providing activity
for all.

A plan was laid out
for the development of
our small back yard
located in Chicago, pro-
viding for as many
activities as possible
throughout the entire
year. Various health

are grown a suitable
variety of flowers,
shrubs and vines. A
Hagstone walk adds to
the attractiveness of the
yard. Properly located
are four galvanized
steel clothes line posts
set in concrete. They
are attractive and serve
as decorations as well
as a necessity. One of
them has been lengthen-
ed to a height of 12 feet
to serve as a flag pole
complete with halyard
and block. Three small
trees furnish ample
shade.

In the southeast cor-
ner of the yard there is
a sunken sand box, 6
feet Square and 1 foot
deep, filled with clean

 

measures were provided sand. The box is made
for sunlight, shade, and protection from incle— of 2 by 12’s, straight grained, carefully planed
ment weather in all seasons. The equipment is and sanded to eliminate any possible injury from
sturdy, safe, and built to suit the various ages and splinters. It is bordered with a wide brick walk
interests of the two families. to keep dirt from getting into the sand. The top

12

A FRAN—EDIE DUPLEX PLAYHOUSE 13

Lloyd Burgess Sharp, Ph.D., head
of the Department of Health and
Physical Education, Laboratory
Schools, School of Education, Uni-

versity of Chicago, and Russell B.
Middaugh, construction engineer
with Swift and Company, are
neighbors in Chicago. The fasci-
nating story they tell of the con-
struction of a playhouse for their
small daughters, and the good
time they had building it, will in-
spire other fathers to become
"play carpenters."

of a kitchen cabinet, with suitable alterations and
paint, placed at one end of the sand box serves as
a store cabinet for many dishes and necessary
utensils for sandcraft activities. On the opposite
side there is a children’s working table where
hundreds of sand pies and cakes are made. There
is an overhead ladder installed at the right height
to encourage climbing activities for the children.
A few boxes, bars, balls and other articles furnish
a variety of play for the children while adults use
a nine hole miniature golf course with natural
hazards. In the center of the yard at the east end
is located a stone fireplace 15 inches wide and 28
inches long. Stone benches placed on either side
of the fireplace serve as fireside seats. They also
serve for trains, work benches, grocery store
counters and many other imaginary pieces of
equipment for the children. The fireplace in the
backyard makes it possible to enjoy much of
camping otherwise out of reach of the city dweller.
The children’s sleeping and sun rooms are located
in the back of the apartments overlooking the
play yard. All activity can be easily supervised
from within the apartments, a splendid feature
for parents.

The Playhouse Is Constructed

A playhouse was needed to make the back yard
3 complete recreation center for our two small

girls, Frances Sharp and Mary Edith Middaugh,
each four years old. Detailed plans and specifica—

 

When you do the work yourself
there’s a feeling of ownership.

tions were drawn up which embodied many new
and desirable educational and health features not
commonly found in children’s playhouses. Its
size, shape and location were determined after a
careful study had been made of ’the playhouse
space required for each child, the free play area
available in the yard, and the amount and location
of other play equipment. _

The Fran-Edie Duplex Playhouse, named for
the two girls, is an inexpensive and sturdy struc-
ture embodying all of the health requirements of
light, sunshine, air, protection in all kinds of
weather, usable the year round, safe, and archi—
tecturally attractive. The playhouse covers a floor
area of eight feet by six feet, divided into two
equal parts bya 3 foot double faced blackboard
partition making the duplex feature of the play—
house. There are really two playhouses under
one roof. There is a porch across the front of
the house 1%, feet wide and 8 feet long.
The end walls are 4 feet high and the center
6 feet high. There are ten windows, eight of
which are of the French type and Open outward,
and there is a glassed door to each playhouse
apartment 19 inches by 46 inches. The siding
material is transite, a hard smooth-surface asbestos
cement composition, durable and water proof. The
playhouse is painted green and trimmed in white.
The roof is made of canvas and rolls up to admit
the direct rays of the sun. This is a new and out-
standing feature. The playhouse is electrically
lighted. '

While this was intended to be a playhouse ex-
clusively for young children we freely confess that
it came very near to being a “dad’s duplex” in-
stead! It was a fascinating experience and took
on all the aspects of large scale construction. The

14 A FRAN-EDIE DUPLEX PLAYHOUSE

building of a child’s playhouse is an important
matter and deserves all the skill and thought possi-
ble to make it usable in all seasons, healthful and
safe. The temptation to get the job finished
quickly so that the tenants might move in, at times
nearly caused carelessness in workmanship. How-
ever, an examination of the finished product re-
warded the two “dad” architects and carpenters
for their painstaking care to details. It is always
better to build a playhouse in a neat and finished
way so that it has an appearance of refinement
and beauty. A crude and hastily put together
structure does not gain the respect even of chil-
dren as does one of better construction.

The House Is Completed

It took about one month, week-ends and eve-
nings, to finish the playhouse and often work
continued at night by artificial light. The ham-
mering and sawing must have disturbed some of
our neighbors, but they seemed to be so interested
in watching the duplex grow that we were saved
from any flying missiles or other form of neigh-
borhood objection! At two o’clock on the morn-
ing of October let we had the playhouse assem-
bled and at that hour the two proud dads could
not help but sit down and admire it for a time.
Although not entirely finished, it was ready to
delight the children when they looked out of their
windows early that morning. It was the birthday
of one of the girls and a suitable party was held
posthaste. The children moved in hurriedly and
with doll bag and baggage relieving the apartments
of much play equipment. It
was necessary at times to
remove their possessions
gently but firmly in order
that some finishing touches,
more the wishes of the dads
than the occupants, might

The equipping of the playhouse was left pretty
much to the wishes of the children. Very little
ready made furniture was used. Much freedom
was given the girls with hammer, nails, scissors,
paper, paste and boxes to make articles for their
new home. In this work they were aided by their
mothers’ tactful and helpful suggestions. It is
admitted, however, that over—anxious parents have
at times added a few ten cent nick nacks too
tempting to resist.

Each child is in charge of her own room and
plays much as she pleases. They are kept busy
keeping house, washing windows, sweeping the
rooms, porch and sides of the house. They move
the furniture out and then move it in again. They
put their dolls to bed, dress and undress them,
wash and iron their doll clothes and lay their dolls
out on the porch for sun baths even in the most
frigid weather. They have numerous and various
tea parties serving sand food in all styles and
tastes. They use the blackboard for marking and
lettering. They use the porch as a makeshift boat,
fishing off the edge of it. During Christmas time
much of the spirit of Christmas play was trans-
ferred to the playhouse which was suitably decor-
ated for the season. An imitation fireplace
was made and red stockings were hung for all the
dolls and toy animals. A large Christmas tree was
placed near the playhouse. Its colored lights and
natural icicles made by spraying water over the
tree, added a colorful touch of Christmas spirit.

The results of the playhouse have been grati-
f ying to the children and especially to the parents.

be completed. During the I ,_ —

construction of the play-
house the children helped
as much as four year old
girls could and naturally at 0
times their help somewhat
impeded progress, but they
felt that they were helping,
which was most important.
They were especially effec-
tive with the paint brushes

 

 

ener 111 in their 2-; ' —
g o sy daub g  \ I

clothes as well as the play-
house.

 

{It

A FRAN-EDIE DUPLEX PLAYHOUSE 15

The children stay out-of—doors
for a longer time each day and
go out more often. They en-
joy playing together but often
play alone each absorbed in
her own household duties.
They have deveIOped a strong
feeling of responsibility .for

their playhouse and for their.

own possessions. They are
proud of it and want to show
it off to their playmate friends
and adult visitors. They have
learned to keep within their
own areas and respect each
others’ rights. They discrimi—
nate quite wellthe type of play
equipment that should be left
in the apartments and that
which should be taken to the
out—of—doors playhouse. Their
mothers are pleased to have
the load of play equipment
lightened from the various
corners of the apartments and
put in charge of the girls in
their own play home. The
girls have played together
much better since the house
has been built. They take
care of themselves better and
show much more independence
in their play. Our two fami-
lies have enjoyed many soci-
able evenings together both in
planning and during the build-
ing of the house and now
enjoy observing the satisfac-
tory results that are coming to
the surface every day. It has
made the problem easier for
the parents. The mothers’
daily talks deal mostly with in-
teresting times and amusing
events in the Duplex rather
than with untangling of diff-i-
culties that otherwise would
arise between the children.
The neighborhood has taken
a great interest in this project.
Many families living nearby
watched its development from
vantage points. The play-
house during Christmas time

. .
\ \‘w

_——I‘ —————-I— 1—- —- — A-I-n

"ha—m

39101161.! Jr. 162mm 1 a

’5’“ nr/M

 

_—n.
-;.

 

 

‘ _'.

 

 

Floor Plan

Specifications —- Fran-Edie Duplex
Playhouse

Floor— Zé” by 6” dressed and matched, on 2 by 6 joists.
Walls—3/16” transite (asbestos lumber), 48” by 96" sheets, fastened

with 3/16" R. H. screws to rigid framework of 2 by 2’5, 545, and
mortised.

Roof—Framed as shown and covered with rolling canvas top of 12 oz.

U.  Army standard, with 1M" galvanized pipe rollers, pulleys and
cor s.

Windows—l4" by 16” by 1%" single light stock sash, hinged at sides.

Doors—3/16” transite screwed to mortised framework of l by 3’s, and
fitted with 12 by 16 glass.

Blackboard Partition—3/16” transite in a removable frame of l by 3’s.

Painting—Green walls, white trim, 3 coats lead and oil. Interior varnished.

 

I
I. m
'/\V/ , a

\\ ¢ A

Section BB

16 A FRAN—EDIE DUPLEX PLAYHOUSE

with the snow bedecked Christmas tree and bright
lights was a beauty spot of the entire neighbor-
hood. Neighbors were curious to know why it
was built in the fall and what use could be made
of it during the winter. Their daily observations
have shown them that a playhouse can be used
as effectively in the winter as in the summer.

Outstanding Features

Briefly summarized some of the outstanding
features of the Fran-
Edie Duplex Play—
house are:

1. The roof is can—
vas and is arranged
with pulleys so that
it can be rolled up
and let down accord—
ing to weather con—
'ditions. This is a
new feature in play—
h o u s e construction
and has definite
h e alt h values. It
permits the sunshine
or shade when
wanted. On winter
days when the sun is
shining and the roof
is rolled up the play-
house is surprisingly
warm.

2. The duplex feature provides for two play-
houses under one roof and gives ample space for
all practical purposes.‘ This is economical and
has many desirable educational features. The
children have separate rooms and their own pos—
sessions and yet they are together.

3. The playhouse is designed so that it can be
divided and made into two separate complete units.
In case one of the families moves away, his half
of the playhouse can be easily unbolted and re-
moved. A division line for this purpose was
included in the plans.

4. The playhouse is collapsible and by remov—
ing eight bolts and screws it can be taken apart
and stored in a small space or easily crated for
shipping. .

5. The 3 foot partition, which is removable,
serves as a double faced blackboard and each side
is equipped with a chalk and eraser rail. It gives
each child privacy in her own room yet does not
cut off communication and sociability. At the

 

same time it discourages unnecessary squabbling
and disputes over toys. The blackboard is used
constantly and has proven to be a splendid feature
of the playhouse.

6. All interior surfaces were carefully planed
and sanded to eliminate splinters and then var-
nished. The large window area gives ample light
and ventilation and protection in inclement
weather. In every way the playhouse is sanitary
and safe.

The Cost

Very careful rec-
ords were kept of all
expenditures Prac-
tically all of the ma—
terial w a s ne w .
Some 2 inch by 6
in c h planking was
used for foundation
material and was not
included in the cost.
A scrap lumber pile
furnished some of
the material needed.
A summary of ma-
terials and costs is as
follows:

Framing
l u m b e r in—

c l u d i n g 10
stock window

Winter only adds to the fun
when you have a playhouse.

 

sash . . . . . . . .$17 .00

Transite siding 3/16 (asbestos lumber) 11.00

Hardware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.00

Painting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.30
Canvas for rolling roof—12 ounce U. S.

Army standard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.35

$46.65

It is posible to build a less expensive playhouse
suitable for certain locations and conditions and
including many of the features already described
in the Fran-Edie Duplex. A playhouse of this
type was constructed last summer by one of the
writers, Mr. Sharp, on his cottage property at
West Point, Lake Mendota, Madison, Wisconsin.
It was built by using two wooden packing boxes
3% feet square and 3% feet high, and some scrap
lumber. The two boxes were nailed together and
made fast to a foundation framework of 2 x 4’3.
The sides of the boxes which had been nailed to—
gether were sawed out making one room of the

(Continued on page 49)

Educating Parents for Home Play

ANY of the home
M play campaigns A Chance for
WhiCh are b eii’g Mother and Dad

conducted are concentrating
on the education of parents to Renew Their
gr horse recreates The “youth at School.

ecreatlon Committee of
the Buffalo City Planning Association under the
title Seven Keys to Y our Children’s Interests is
offering a free course for parents in home recrea—
tion which extends from March 9th to April 27th,
with weekly sessions each Monday night from 8
o’clock to 9:30. The subjects discussed and the
demonstrations presented cover active games,
games for quiet times and rainy days, books,
handcraft projects, play rooms and corners, back-
yard playgrounds, understanding the child during
his first twelve years, understanding teen age boys
and girls, helping children enjoy music, exploring
the world of nature, using public recreation op-
portunities, and organized programs for boys and

girls. The Readers Bureau of the Buffalo, New
York, Public Library is supplying bibliographies
on each of the subjects covered in the course.

A similar plan was initiated by the Los Angeles,
California, Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment which devoted a section of its Recreation
and Play Leadership Conference to play and
recreation in the home. Six evenings were given
over to the following subjects: The field of home
play, the apparatus and equipment for backyard
playgrounds; things that mothers and daughters
can do together in the home; things that dads and
sons can do together in the home; fun for rainy
days; play for the convalescent child; social recre-
ation in the home; the arts in the home program
and adult recreation within the home.

The Los Angeles Playground and Recreation
Department is urging parents to learn by doing
and in connection with its campaign in which
many local organizations cooperated, the Depart-
ment issued the following registration card:

Parents' Home Play Club Enrollment

“The Family That Plays Together—Stays Together” -

Recognizing the necessity of constructive and safe play in the
life of the child, our family will endeavor to devote at least three
hours each week to play activity together._ Please enroll us in the

PARENTS’ HOME PLAY CLUB and forward the bulletins
checked below. We enclose self-addressed stamped envelope for

 

mailing.
“Come On, Son, We’re Going to Join
the Home Play Club"
Name .............................................................................................................. ..
CHECK BULLETINS DESIRED HERE
------ --Backyard Playgrounds and Home Play- Address 
...... ..Play Life Within the Home.
...... ..Games for Children’s Parties.
- Phone .................................. ..

...... ..Social Recreation.
....Mountain Camps.
........Picnics.
...... ..How to Build Home Play Equipment.
...... ..Handcraft for the Home.
...... ..Camp and Trail Craft.
...... ..Outdoors in Southern California.
...... ..Historic Points of Interest near Los

Age and Sex of Children ............................................................................ ..

Contact Organization

An eles. . _
...... "Sui-y Telling and Dramatics in the Forward this card to Playground and Recreat1on Dept, 305 City
Home. Hall, Los Angeles, or your Organization Headquarters

17

    

Playthings are important to the phys-
ical and emotional growth of the child.

pastime of little grown-ups. It is a mis-

take to intrude upon the play hours of
children. One of the inalienable rights of child-
hood is that a child shall have a place and a time
to play. Adults must not usurp this privilege by
sending children on errands or by using them as
diminutive servants. To refuse to recognize the
need of children to play is to refuse to develop
creative children who are not handicapped with
emotional upsets and serious behavior problems.

Toys and play materials are tools of play, the
means through which the child interprets his own
environment. Since play activities are most signi-
ficant in their relationship to the physical and
emotional growth of the child,
it is important that a selection
of play materials be based upon
a thorough understanding of his
developing needs.

C h il (1 r e 11 two years and
younger are interested mostly
in manipulating material to
satisfy their sensory needs.
Their toys are largely those
thatdo not involve a great deal
of muscular activity. Good
toys for this age are those that

18

P LAY is too frequently regarded as a trivial

materials.

Christine Heinig, director of the
Nursery School, Child Develop-

ment Institute, Teachers College,

in an address before the Child

Study Association of America,

stresses the importance of proper

attention to the selection of play

 

BuHah Rr_rra!ion Derarrmen!

Play Material

can be kept in a pen or crib. Toys such as rock-
ing ducks which interest and arouse curiosity are
most appropriate. Balls that roll away and thwart
desires develop fretful children.

At the age of two a child begins to get around.
Toys should help him move about. Since crawl-
ing activities are valuable from a postural stand-
point, toys that aid walking should not be given
to a child until he has gotten the physical develop-
ment that comes from crawling and creeping.
Pushing toys are more satisfactory than pulling
toys; they give the child not only the added satis-
faction of seeing his toy ahead of him, but provide
the opportunity for new types of manipulation.

All toys should be made sturdily so that a child
can exert himself w it h o u t
danger. In giving attention to
the development of big muscles
at this age, one must be careful.
not to neglect a child’s sense
development. Children like to
manipulate and sort. Their
play equipment should teach
them size, form, weight and
color. Sets of things are very
appropriate. At this age, chil-
dren like the repetition that
comes in collections of things

PLAY AND PLAY MATERIAL 19

as in the blocks, beads, or sets of animals. Such
equipment should be very large. Though a child
likes to make things, his concentration span is not
very great and it is important that he be able to
construct things quickly.

About the age of four interest in co'0perative
play becomes paramount. Some dramatization
and sharing of imagination are beginning to be
shown at this time. Stories of' make-believe with
a number of characters. are beginning to have
appeal. Before this, a child’s interest has been
primarily in factual material. Things around him
were of greatest interest. He was “it” and saw
all things in relation to himself.

When children approach six years of age, they
become definitely interested in creating things.
They take a great deal of pride in the things
which they make
and want to keep
their creations.
They seek ap-
proval and want
the i r products
recognized an d
enoyed. F o r
this reason, ma-
terial with which
t h e y w o r k
s h o u l d h a v e
qualities of per-
manence. Clay
should replace
plasticine. D u e
credit should be
given all achieve—
ment. Toys at
this time, as at all other ages, should contribute
to good postural development. Scooters, though
very popular, are not to be recommended. It has
been found that through the sameness of position
which a child assumes he develops bad postural
habits which frequently result in a curvature of
the spine.

At this age more than at any other children
live in their play experiences. They need the
things that will help them live in their world of
fancy. If a boy is interested in cowboys or
Indians he should have a cowboy or Indian suit.
Girls should have trunks or boxes of dresses or
old clothes with which they can create the char-
acters in the play world of their imagination.

At nine or ten mental capacities deepen. Chil—
dren can now make a great many of their own
toys. They should be given tool chests and work

 

Children are happiest with toys
which help them express their ideas.

benches. This age produces the first most clear—
1y pronounced interest in club activities. Every
home or two should have a shack or corner of a
porch set aside for club use.

Important Considerations

In selecting play materials for children of any
age, hygienic qualities should always be consid—
ered. All toys should be washable and above all
substantial. Sturdy play material makes for
good character qualities. There is a more decided
respect for property when toys are found to. be
good. Toys should always be suggestive and
should allow for the deve10pment of creative
abilities. They should be appropriate and never
grotesque. Long—legged dolls and hideous cari-
catures of animals are never to be recommended.
Equipment that
is not found in
regular toy de—
partments should
augment e a c h
child’s supplies.
There should be
egg beaters, milk
bottles, milk
b o t t l e t o p s ,
glasses, spoons,
those t h i n g s
which lend them-
selves so easily
to constructive
play. Utilitarian
t0ys should not
be neglected.
M o p s, clothes-
hangers, toothbrush holders are Splendid aids in
developing good habits. But the most important
of all considerations in providing for the adequate
play life of children is the setting aside of a place
where toys and other play materials may be kept.
This seemingly insignificant task is one of the
greatest of adult responsibilities.

The following are important aids in the selec-
tion of the pr0per play material for children of
all ages:

1. Bad behavior may mean that a child has
either too many or too few toys or that his
toys are not adapted to his particular needs.

2. .Destructive tendencies may mean poor, un-
substantial toys or too many toys. In the
latter case, the opportunity for appreciating
the values of any is minimized.

(Continued on page 50)

Recreation for the Pre-School Child

Whether recreation departments

can assume more responsibility 15 so. new, however, that comparatively few
. definite standards or standardized proce-
for the play life of the young dures have been established although the

ft American Association of Nursery Schools
5? . is bringing together much of the best ex-
:- perience in this field. So far as is known,

child is a question often asked.

  
    

   
    
   
    
   

'“ ' public funds have not yet been made
~m _ available to any appreciable extent for

a the education of this pre-kindergarten

age group through boards of

ground and recreation leaders / education. In a number of cities,

of the country to give more 4 of course, from park and play-
thought to the pre-school age 

j.
It.

 

IS there need for the play-

ground appropriations, special
child or the pre-kindergarten age é ‘ areas and leadership have been

child from three and a half to f . provided for very small children,
five years old? ' I; with blocks, baby swings, sand

At the White House Confer- ' 5* piles and leadership, occasionally
ence on Child Health and Pro- ‘1“ kindergarten leadership, has been

tection one of the major emphasis r
was the interest in this age ",4"
group. In the past, society has 1"
. . I
made little effort to prov1de for .
this group, relying entirely upon
parental care and upon such edu-
cation as could be provided for
the parents. There is, however,
a rapidly growing movement of
nursery schools, play schools,
“all-day-care” schools, and there
is now as indeed there has al-
ways been a recognition of the
great importance of this early
period. Such varying authorities
as John B. Watson and Joseph
Lee have indicated that the most
significant things that are to
happen to an individual during
his whole life probably happen
in the first four or five years.
The nursery schools so rapidly
being established throughout the
country are largely play schools.
They probably belong just as
properly to the playgrounds as
to the schools. The movement

20

provided. Possibly the begin-
nings of public support of play
and educational effort for this
age group will come through the
recreation rather than the edu-
cational authorities. Certainly
many recreation leaders will be
interested to face the problem of
the play life of the pre-school
age child and apparently this
play life constitutes the great
bulk of the waking life of such
children.

The study of nursery schools,
day nurseries, made by the sub-
committee on the Infant and the
Pre-School Child, of the White
House Conference on Child
Health and Protection, showed
that practically every institution
of this kind had outside play
facilities. It also showed that of
the four year old children stud-

ied, ten per cent

Fl ‘ “f b ‘ n g ’ _"“““‘f‘g’ played outdoors
Jumping, hauling, lift-

ing, throwing and dig- from one to {our
ging are essential. hours per day!

RECREATION FOR THE PRE—SCHOOL CHILD 21

seventy per cent from iive to eight hours per day
and about twenty per cent twelve hours a day.

Various suggestions have been made as to
what the playground and recreation leaders in
communities can do in experimenting with addi-
tional service to this age group:

1. Possibly some agencies, probably those sup-
ported by contributions or endownments, could
secure or utilize funds for further experiment
in this field.

2. Possibly in some communities where recrea—
tion work is maintained by public funds, either
special appropriations or
more probably special
contributions might be
secured for the develop-
ment of this type of ac-
tivity.

3. Possibly one way to
work on this problem
would be to assign a
Special staff member to
the task of developing
in one or more. centers
suitable activities of the
play school or nursery
school type for this age
group.

4. Probably unde r
whatever conditions in-
tensive work of this kind
is to be conducted by
recreation authorities, it
should be done in close
cooperation with the
people already interested
in nursery schools,—
play schools, child study
association; and other
groups who have already
been giving thought to
and experimenting with this age group.

5. Playground facilities could, of course, under
suitable conditions, be offered freely to respon-
sible non-commercial groups carrying on activ-
ities for the pre-school‘ age child. Possibly under
suitable conditions facilities may be even made
available to commercial groups.

6. In some cities in which playgrounds are
open during the school year and in which the
demand on playground facilities is light during
the school hours, especially interested and com-
petent staff members or playground directors
might be encouraged to develop in cooperation

 

Fortunate indeed is the pre-school
child whose out-of-door play life
is spent among growing things.

with the kind of group suggested above, play
schools on one or more playgrounds.

7. Experiments of this kind might well include
the idea which has been developed in a number
of cities of utilizing regularly or on a rotating
basis the volunteer service of competent mothers.

Plant and Equipment for Play Activities

The plant and equipment for play activities as
outlined by the National Committee for Nursery
School Education* call for a building, a play-
ground, equipment, apparatus and play materials.

Playground. The con-
siderations to be given
in planning the play-
ground are exposure so
that a maximum amount
of sunshine is possible;
drainage so that it is
free from dampness;
ample running space so
that the more vigorous
children can carry on
their activities without
harm to the less mature
or less active ones.

Equipment, Appara-
tus, Play Materials. Be-
fore setting up a school
the director should study
the resources offered by
the immediate location
and neighborhood. The
equipment and play ma-
terials will be determined
in part by the resources
of the locality. In the
country the question of
pets and growing things
will be simpler than in
the large city. If the
ground is naturally uneven, if there are low trees
and an opportunity for digging, certain provisions
which have to be contrived in a city, can be at-
tained with little effort. No list of play materials
and apparatus is submitted. Equipment can be
simple, additions may be made as the need arises,
and if a local carpenter is available much of it can
be made at a low cost. The following types of
equipment should be provided:

(a) Apparatus such as slides, ladders, balanc-

ing boards, climbing apparatus, and jungle

 

*JLIinimum Essentials for Nursery School Education.

(Continued on page 50)

A Family Experiment in Home Play

 

Courtesy of Mrs. Maude Richards, Potts: file, Pa.

A table of her own, some waste material, a. few in-
expensive tools-—a.nd home play becomes a reality.

reward.” No one knows better than
mothers who have made conscious at—
tempts to meet the home play needs of their
children, what rewards home play can bring.
The. acknowledgments of their successes and fail-
ures are the best possible proofs of the assertions
that play in the home is an important determin-
ant of social responses. Mothers can give what-
ever evidence there is that home play sets
behavior patterns, removes stress, and results
most of all in a joyous mutuality on which is
founded the best human relationships.
Mrs. Maude Richards of Sharp Mountain
Farm, Pottsville, Pennsylvania, the mother of
three boys, has had one of those happy play

22

a S the old saying goes, “success is its own

The story of a mother and her
three boys whose home play
activities have been a vital
influence in the home and the

neighborhood.

times with her children which is so often visual-
ized but seldom realized. From manipulation
play to King Arthur combats she has led her
children through infancy, young childhood, and
adolescence in play activities that follow a pro-
gression of normal interests, and are based on a
real understanding of child psychology.

When the children were very young, they
were given packages to open—packages contain-
ing joyful kitchen utensils like wooden potato

A FAMILY EXPERIMENT IN HOME PLAY 23

mashers, rolling pins, or tin pie plates, or per-
haps some delectable object like a new rattle on
the end of a long rope for them to pull in hand
over hand. At two years, the children were pre—
sented with wooden blocks about 4” long x 2”
wide x 1” thick—real handfuls for their chubby,
fat hands to grasp. A set of hollow wooden
cubes that fitted inside each other, and which
were covered with wonderfully gay pictures of
“Cock Robin,” acquainted them with sizes,
shapes, and colors.

In the summers before they were five years
old, they were introduced to a regular community
kindergarten in the backyard, with sand piles,
swings, and slides. So that they might have
their share in helping build and beautify it, the
children, with the aid of their father and mother,
constructed a real outdoor fish pool, a miniature
garden, a hill with a summer house built of small
stones set in concrete, and a bridge with flower
pots for arches.

When they were four, seven, and eight re-
spectively, Mrs. Richards enlisted the coopera-
tion of the Home Economics Department of the
local woman’s club in staging an exhibition of
children’s summer work to be held the following
summer. With this as a goal, the children col-
lected specimens of wild flowers and forest
leaves, pressing and mounting them in a set of
large loose—leafed notebooks, with home made
bindings of card board covered with wall paper.
They also collected. such shells as they could
find at nearby beaches and made a very complete
collection of butterflies and moths. Having pro-
cured every variety near their homes they wrote
to missionaries in China, Africa and Cuba and
secured from them the names of boys who were
interested and
glad to trade.
In this way they
m a d e interna-
tional contacts
with children to
whom they still
write and devel-
oped an interest
in stamp collec—
tions, which are
an increasing
source of pleas-
ure to them.
Stones of dif-
ferent shapes
a n d

 

c o 10 r S Courtesy of Mrs. Maude Richards, Patts‘m'lle. PG-

which they accumulated found their way into two
permanent lire-places, around which the family
gathers on many of their evenings at home.

On rainy days or very hot days the children
made jig-saw toy animals which they painted,
necklaces out of sealing wax, a contour map of
Palestine and a Palestine house out of paper pulp
——surely an interesting way of learning history
and geography.

When “the gang” age arrived, serious fights
ensued. One set of neighborhood children at-
tacked the other, the beseiged always retreating
to the balcony around the second floor of the
Richards’ home. Mrs. Richards confessed the
grown-ups were somewhat worried by the fights.
After some deliberation they suggested that the
children make armor to meet better the on-
slaughts of the enemy. What superb leadership!
The children themselves went to the hardWare
store to purchase sheets of galvanized tin and
colored paints. Next they went to a plumber
who cut the tin for them in the desired shapes.
They themselves turned the edges, soldered on
the handles, and Spent happy hours painting on
ancestral armorial designs. When finished, the
children were so proud of them that they hung
them on the wall to better display them. By that
time they had forgotten all about their lights and
the shields had proved the desired substitute for
gang warfare.

Another year beaten metal work was tried.
COpper was heated and, with tinsmith’s shears,
ball hammers and an anvil, book .ends, napkin
rings, and card
trays were ham-
mered out.
Later can dle
sticks and toys
were made from
tin cans.

One happy
summer in Cape
Cod made pos-
sible the collec-
tion of marine
specimens 0 f
shells. A year
or two later this
collection was
enlarged by spe-
cimens gathered

on a trip to
Florid a and
(Cont. on p. 51)

Every small boy wants to be a

collector, and a home museum

furnishes a worth while motive.

A Council Ring

 

A park official testifies to

the value of an exchange
of ideas through reports.

AST year a copy of the annual report of
the Westchester County Park Commission

reached us which contained an illustration
of a Council Ring. This appealed to us as a
useful and economical park or playground fea-
ture, and we _drew up for one of our local parks
plans for a ring based on the design shown in the
picture.

The Council Ring as we planned it is designed
to accommodate any group up to 60 with leaders
or speakers. It is composed of a circular seating
arrangement of 2 by 12 cypress boards nailed
to 34 inch sections of a 10 inch log, the sections
being sunk 18 inches in the ground for firm,
sturdy construction. The completed project was
stained a warm tobacco brown which harmonized
very well with the natural surroundings.

Openings were left on opposite sides, one only
2 feet wide for the group to enter, and the op-
posite opening 10 feet wide with a raised 8 foot
seat with back for the leader or speaker. Bits
of old concrete sidewalk were arranged in a circle
at the center of the ring as a place where tires
might be built for camp fire effect or for the
more utilitarian purpose of cooking.

The cost of the project was very little requir-
ing the service of two men for two days to con-

24

_ for Parks

By Frank L. Bertschler

Superintendent, Department of Parks
and Playgrounds
Beaumont, Texas

struct and stain the seats. The following material
was used: 14 pieces 2” by 12” by 10’ cypress;

-2 pieces 2” by 10" by 8’ cypress; 2 pieces 2”

by 14” by 8’ cypress, and 8—32” sections of 10"
oak logs. These oak logs were obtained from
dead trees which had to be removed from certain
parks. '

Many groups use the ring. Playground story
hours are conducted there; picnic parties find it
ideal for storytelling purposes, while Sunday
school classes on their outings use it for meetings.
The greatest use, however, has been by the Boy
Scout troops and so popular has the ring become
that reservations are being made for more than
two months in advance. During the entire sum-
mer and early autumn a number of the troops
held their weekly meetings in the ring where
stunts can be staged with good visibility for all
and refreshments can be prepared conveniently.
On several occasions parents’ nights have been
held at the Council Ring.

Our first season with the Council Ring has been
so successful and the ring has been so widely used
that additional rings will be constructed during
this year for use in other parts of our city. It is
hoped that our experience will prove an incentive
for other park departments and recreation groups
to introduce similar features into their programs.

Games for a Home Play Night

 

An evening a week when the
family stays at home and plays
together, is the plea many
recreation departments are
making.

Emma Farm Association, Pittsburgh, Pa.

An open fire, stories, games, music—make an
evening at home a delight to all the family.

games are shared by their elders. For a

home play night it is desirable to select
games which will give all an equal opportunity with
no advantage to the adults. A few games of this
type follow.

Trades

Every player, except one who holds the office
of reader, selects a trade or profession which he
must retain throughout the game. The reader
opens a book at random and reads a passage aloud,
when he comes to some common noun he looks at
one of the tradesmen, who must instantly name an
article that he is supposed to have for sale, or some
implement connected with the exercise of his craft.
By this substitution of one noun for another, the
most pathetic passage is converted into an inde-
scribable jumble of absurdities.

CHILDREN are especially happy when their

The Four Elements

The party is seated in a circle. The player who
commences the game takes a knotted handker-
chief, and throws it suddenly into another’s lap,
calling out at the same time “earth,” “water,”
“air” or “hre.” If “earth” is called out, the player
must respond with the name of some quadruped
before the other can count ten; if “water,” he
must name a hsh ; if “air,” a bird; and if “tire”
he must remain silent. Should a player name a
wrong animal, or speak when he should be silent,
he must take his turn at throwing the handker-
chief. But should he perform his task properly he
must throw the handkerchief back to the first
player who repeats the action with some other

person.

Beanbag Games

These are many and varied and can be adapted
to home conditions. Frequently the making of a
board or other equipment for these games can be
made an interesting recreational activity for the

25

26 _ GAMES FOR A HOME PLAY NIGHT

whole family. Some beanbag games are: beanbag
circle, toss, fox and squirrel, duck on a rock, bean-
bag throw.

Five in a Row

For this simple game, mark on a paper or
board any number of squares. Each player adopts
a special mark, a circle, a cross, a star or a check.
The object is for each player to get five of his
marks in a row, up and down, across or diago-
nally. Each plays in turn and tries to block the
others from getting five in a row. Marks may be
put anywhere on the board.

Tissue Paper Race

Each player cuts a square of tissue paper and
puts upon it some initial or mark by which it may
be identified. Four inches is a good-sized square.
At one end of the row, two book-ends or other
solid objects are set up about a foot apart. A two-
foot space is good for the first game. At the
other end of the room the players are lined up,
armed with fans. “(hen the word “go” is given,
each starts to fan his square the length of the room
and through the goal posts. The first to waft the
tiny paper through the goal posts, wins. This
game can also be played on a table with eggs
from which the contents have been blown. In this
case no fans are used, each person blowing his
egg shell across the table.

Hanging

What a cheerful subject for a game! Yet it is a
very amusing pastime in spite of the gallows with
which it is begun. One player draws the gallows
and chooses some simple proverb or familiar quo-
tation as: “Mary, Mary, quite contrary.” Under
the gallows the player draws a line of dots, one
for each letter in the quotation (the player should
number each letter in proverb so that he can
arrange letter on dots more quickly.) Separate
group of lots in each word, as:

The second player then tries to guess the quo-
tation by asking for letters. For instance, “May I
have an e?” and the letter e is placed in space 13.
Then he tries again with “May I have an a?” and
a’s are placed in spaces 2, 6 and 19. Still he
cannot guess the quotation so he says “May I
have an 5?” He may not, for there is not a single
5 in the line.

So the gallows gets him, for at the first miss the
player draws a head. At the next miss, a round

body goes on, the next, two arms, and the next,
two legs. If the body of the hanging man is fin-
ished before the line is guessed, the game has
been lost and the same player may draw another
gallows and chooses another quotation. If, how-
ever, the player guesses the line before the hang-
ing figure is finished, the turn is reversed.

Scouting for W'ords

Select some class of words such as animals,
birds, trees, girls’ names. In the case of animals
each person in turn tries to name an animal
beginning with A until there are no more. The
first person who cannot name another animal
beginning with A has a point scored against him,
and the letter B is treated similarly. This goes
on through the entire alphabet and the person
with the least number of points wins.

Progressive Stories

Thrilling tales are frequently the result of this
pastime. One player starts telling a story and
after a few minutes (perhaps in the middle of a
sentence) he says “next” and the next person
must take up the story where he left off. This
goes on around the circle until the last person
caps the story with a fitting climax.

Pass It On

Players are seated or standing in a close circle.
\Vhile the music is being played, a bell or other
article is passed quickly from hand to hand.
\Vhen the music stops suddenly (or a whistle is
blown) the player having the bell pays a pen-
alty; for the first offense—must pass the bell
behind him; second offense—must hold up one
arm and pass the bell; third offense—both arms
up. Forfeits may be used as penalty.

Egg Polo

Place an empty egg shell in the center of the
table and arrange a goal at each goal end. Two
teams of players at opposite ends of the table try
to blow the egg shell through their opponents’
goal.

A Teacup Stunt

To balance a teacup on a pencil point, put a
cork firmly into the cup handle and stick a fork
into the cork with two prongs on either side of
the handle, the handle of the fork being under
the bottom of the cup. Practice and a steady

(Continued on page 52)

A City Remembers

A Project for a
City's Shut-ins

nized responsibilities of a Recreation

Board is the provision for the play needs
of shut-ins. East Orange, New Jersey, recog-
nizes this need through a unique project by which
it brings to its stay-at-homes flowers, books, gifts,
visits from new friends, messages from old,-——
all those things that add joy and sunshine to life
indoors.

The project was started four years ago by Miss
Frances Haire, Director of Recreation, Board
of Recreation Commissioners in that city. At-
tractive letters were sent out asking shut-ins if
they would like to receive similar letters now and
then telling about the happenings in the world
outside, and requesting that they suggest things
they would like to have or do to pass their time.
Encouraged by the response, Miss Haire con-
tinued sending out monthly letters colorfully il-
lustrated by the Girl Scouts. So much attention
was attracted by the plan that in a short time
other organizations volunteered to cooperate.
Today, eighteen or more agencies plan and co-
ordinate the work under a Council of Recreation
for Shut-Ins. No dues are collected nor is any
money spent by the Council. Expenditures are
almost negligible except for stationery and mime-
ographing.

The Recreation Board acts as a clearing house
for the Council. Files are kept, contacts made
with new shut-ins, and monthly letters and sug-
gestions for indoor games are distributed.

Since one of the greatest needs of a shut-in is
for adventure and romance, the East Orange
Public Library prepares each month a list of

0 NE of the most important but least recog-

Its
Stay- at - Homes

books on a subject of special appeal. On one oc-
casion shut-ins were taken adventuring through
distant lands—through sunny France, glamourous
Spain, the snow buried Alps, along the blue
Mediterranean, the languorous Nile. At another
time they were introduced to “court life from
within.” They read of Henry of Navarre,
Catherine de Medici, Catherine the Great, Ann
Boleyn, Napoleon, and Rasputin. More recently
they met New Jersey authors through their books,
writers who might have known them or their
friends. For those who cannot procure books
easily, arrangements are made for a special mes-
senger service so that there are none who may
not follow the travel tours through bookland.
Growing plants and flowers are distributed by
the Gift Flower Bureau, an organization com-
posed entirely of volunteers. These flowers are
supplied by civic and social clubs and throughout
the city, each organization making itself respon-
sible for donating flowers on one or two occasions
during the year. Because of the number of clubs
that have become interested, it is possible for the
Bureau to send out flowers once a month during
the winter and twice a month during the summer.
The Chamber of Commerce furnishes a room
where plants are wrapped and tagged and from
which they are delivered by the Boy Scouts.
The Chamber of Commerce also sends to
travellers from the Oranges names and addresses
of shut-ins requesting that postal cards and mes-
sages be sent to them. One woman wrote to the
Council of her delight on receiving cards from
Florida, California, Europe, and “all those won-
derful places I’d love to see.” Two or three

27

28 A CITY REMEMBERS ITS STAY-AT—HOMES

shut-ins who received messages from foreign
lands became interested in stamp collecting as a
hobby. They now look forward eagerly to re-
ceiving letters from their unknown traveller
friends. Needless to say, their greatest hope is
that there will be a new stamp on the letter which
they can add to their collection.

One of the most interesting features of the
project is carried on in cooperation with the
Junior League. Assisted by an occupational
therapist, league members teach the disabled
weaving, basketry, beading, leathercraft, or some
other occupation which will afford the shut-ins a
means of livelihood. The League supplies free
materials and buys the finished products whether
they later sell them or not. It also conducts an

attractive shop where articles are displayed and
sold.

Not to be outdone by the grown-ups, school
children contribute their share of happiness to
the shut-ins. Last Easter they sent to them
colored half egg-shells in which were planted
growing violets. This Easter nests of colored
cardboard filled with sweetmeats are to convey
the good cheer messages. Greetings on Christ-
mas, Valentine’s Day, and on Washington’s Birth-
day remind the stay-at-home that he is not for-
gotten by his little friends.

The Good Cheer Bureau and other organiza-
tions delegate their members to pay social calls.
A letter to Miss Haire shows the joy brought to
one woman by the thoughtfulness of one of her
visitor friends. “One of the ladies was going to
a wedding. She was going to wear a new evening
dress. I made the remark that I would love to
see her in her new party dress. I was sitting
quietly that evening when the door opened and I
saw her come in with her husband. The dear
thing brought a bit of the wedding to me. It
was just like a picture in a fairy book.”

One of the chief reasons for the success of
the Council is its refusal to lose the individual
in the detail of organization. When flowers are
sent out the most fragrant go to the blind and
the most colorful to the children. Communica-
tions are kept confidential and are made as im-
personal as possible so that there will be no fear
of intrusion into personal affairs. After the first
letter of greeting, additional messages and gifts
are not sent unless requested by the shut-in or
by someone authorized by him. In this way the
Council eliminates the feeling that it is doling out
unwanted charity. To avoid duplication, requests
for welfare aid are referred to one of the exist-
ing social agencies. A yearly check-up by the
Woman’s Club insures the Council that its work
is being well received.

A Study of Family Leisure Time.

R. T. EARL SULLENGER, professor of
D sociology in the Municipal University of
Omaha, Nebraska, tells of a study of the
use of leisure time in 835 families whose chil-
dren are enrolled in Benson High School in
Omaha. The study is divided into three sections
—leisure time of the father, mother, and children.
The average working day of the fathers was 7%
hours. The average time spent in recreation each
day was about 3 hours, utilized in driving, listen-
ing to radio, fishing, gardening, reading, golf and
baseball, arranged in order of frequency. Moth-
ers’ recreation ranged from bridge to reading and
picture shows. Of the 835 families 542. or 64.9
per cent, owned automobiles. Radio programs
furnished more entertainment in the home for the
whole family than any one means.
These families represent about 1,000 high
school students. Reading occupied part of the

leisure time of them all. Thirty-three and live-
tenths per cent read adventure; 28.7 per cent,
mystery stories; 20 per cent, love stories; 11.5
percent, travel, and 6.1 per cent, biographies. The
average number of books read by each of these
students is two per week. Nearly all the children
had some kind of hobbies on which they spent an
average of 1% hours per day. Outdoor sports
held a charm for all. Swimming headed the list
with 23.4 per cent; skating, 12.4 per cent; hiking,
10.3 per cent; tennis, 13.7 per cent; golf, 11.2
per cent; baseball, 14.1 per cent; football, 7.1 per
cent; miscellaneous, 4.6 per cent. It was found
that 69.3 per cent went to the movies once a week,
25.7 per cent, twice a week; 5 per cent went
irregularly; 73.3 per cent attended neighborhood
shows. Only 45.5 per cent frequented the city
parks for recreation; 51.1 per cent spent some of
their leisure time attending church socials.

 

Houston, Texas, Recreation Department

. Music

in

American Life

By Augustus Delaneld Zanzig

Americans during the last five years has been

a very bewildering one; a huge cyclorama

as dark with doubt as it is bright in promise. The
most personal and least tangible 0f the arts, once
only a way of worship and of solace and delight
to simple folk, and later a crowning grace of the
aristocracy, had with advancing professionalism
become used as a commodity and often a spec-
tacular display, subject to dickering and ballyhoo.
Now to these incongruities are added those of our
economic situation with its displacement of men
by machines and its high-powered
salesmanship to keep the ma-
chines running. For, thanks to
the radio, music has become a
primary factor in “big business.”
Yet music itself, the best of it,
has like a crystal stream flowed
through the centuries, a distillate
of life, fed by the common loves,
faiths, and delights of each peo-
ple and each period in the history
of the human spirit, as well as by

THE musical scene confronting thoughtful

life itself.

We need to be reminded

From time to time of the spirit-
ual values of music and what
it can mean in a machine age.
Mr. Zanzig, who is in charge of
the music study made by the
National Recreation Associa-
tion, tells of groups he has seen
in cities throughout America
to whom making music means

Like. a beautiful park, a fine
public library, an art center
or a stately public build-
ing, a community orchestra
becomes a token and
champion of the dignity
and inner life of the
people.

the ardors of a glorious succession of great com-
posers. There it is, as fresh and vital as ever, and
for an increasing number of people one of the
supreme needs of life.

Listening

Here are excerpts from an account given in
an informal address by David Mannes at the 1930
convention of the American Federation of Arts,
of a free concert at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art in New York:

“Of course there must be many of you who
have not been to the Metropoli-
tan Museum on such a night in
January or in March, so just let
us make an excursion up Fifth
Avenue to Central Park and
Eighty-second Street. We ascend
a broad staircase. We get into
the hall. People are seated on a
few of the benches that are there.
It being early in the afternoon,
we go around and look at the pic-
tures, and at live fifteen we come

29

30 MUSIC IN AMERICAN LIFE

down to the lecture hall where we find about two
hundred people listening to a lecture on the pro-
gram. We come up at six o’clock and find that
all of the three thousand seats have been taken.
We go out and get dinner. We come back to
the Museum at eight o’clock and find that there
is hardly standing room. For you who do not
know the size of the great hall at the Metropoli-
tan Museum, I will tell you that it is comparable
to the railroad station of a great city. Around
the gallery is a rail, back of which is the orches-
tra. At eight o’clock the conductor steps forward.
There is no time to applaud him and the pro-
gram begins—perhaps with an overture by Bee-
thoven, followed by the Cesar Franck symphony.

“The extraordinary part of it is that whereas
at the symphony concerts in \Vashington, New
York, Chicago, Philadelphia and other large cities
the conductors have to contend with noise and
confusion between the numbers, this great audi-
ence at the Museum could not be persuaded to
make a sound—there is absolute silence. The
number of this audience is eleven thousand peo-
ple. As I look down I cannot see the floor, it is
packed so tightly with people. Nobody moves.
They do not go out and look at the pictures. Some
of these people have been standing there since six
o’clock.

“The program begins again—a chorale of Bach;
then follows a Symphonic poem, The Afternoon
of a Faun, by Debussy. Then comes an excerpt
from a String Quartet followed by excerpts from
Die Meistersinger—the introduction to the third
act—and so the thing ends. It is ten o’clock. The
people still stand there. There is a great deal of
applause. It is such a well-mannered audience
that the applause comes in the right places. They
are not likely to applaud on the chord of a domi-
nant seventh, as often happens in Carnegie Hall.
It is really a highly intelligent audience.

“Then at ten o’clock people go around the gal-
leries and see the pictures. That is what the con-
certs have developed into . . .

“There must be a tremendous field for this
sort of thing when people will come at four o’clock
in the afternoon and wait four hours for music-—
music must have a tremendous appeal . . .

“Why should you not have as high a standard
in music as you have for the works of art which
line the walls of the Museum? You will proba-
bly be amazed when I tell you that in twelve years,
with a total each year of eight concerts, reaching
sixty-eight thousand people, nothing in the Mu-
seum has been hurt, nothing has been broken.

There are no police in the building and no guards.
There are no signs to keep still. If you should
move about, your neighbors would tell you to
please be quiet. There is no talking, no whisper-
ing. If you have ever “heard” silence it is on
these occasions. It is an amazing thing that in
the presence of eleven thousand people you could
almost hear a pin dr0p. It is the most astounding
thing I have ever seen.

“If you need faith in the human race, if you
need faith in the aSpiration, in the aristocracy of
our democracy, come next January and March
and renew your faith, because you will never
doubt again.”

Before leaving New York, let us sit in the
grandstand of a college stadium there (the Lewi-
sohn Stadium of the College of the City of New
York) on a summer evening, with fourteen thou-
sand peOple of all ages, conditions, nationalities,
and religious and political beliefs-not a typical,
standardized college crowd—all waiting eagerly
for the “game” to start. Not a football game is
this, for there would not be space for any. The
field itself is covered with seated people. The
only place for a game is on the handsome plat-
form, now silent and dimly aglow with light from
the setting sun, but later to shine with a magical
light as when “the morning stars sang together.”
For the Beethoven Ninth Symphony will be
played and sung, with its “Praise to Joy, the God-
descended daughter of Elysium.” The chorus,
especially organized for the occasion, is nearly as
widely representative of human interests and con-
ditions as the audience, and the orchestra is the
New York Philharmonic, recently returned from
a triumphant tour in Europe. A great event it is,
in which many a machine-tending, subway-
jammed or otherwise cramped person will find
his true, expansive self. The singers down there
in the very midst of it all will be especially blessed.

Singing

In this more complex life of ours we could
give more and even better reasons than seven of
the eight given by the great William Byrd “to per-
suade every one to learne to singe." How amazed
he would be to see an audience of from two to
three thousand people listening to one of his
madrigals, which were made for singing by the
family and guests, very likely while they were
still seated at the dinner table, after it had been
cleared. The merry Amaryllis madrigal that was
included in the very book—Psalms, Sonets, and
Songs of Sadness and Pietie—for which Byrd

MUSIC IN AMERICAN LIFE 31

wrote his eight reasons as a preface nearly three
hundred and fifty years ago, is even now delight-
ing thousands of people, thanks to the English
Singers, as freshly as a bright May morning in
“Merrie England.” But in Elizabethan days
every lady and gentleman was expected to be
able to carry a part safely through the often in—
tricate measures, without bar-lines, of such a song.
Now if Sweet Adeline had only had such music
written to her But how many of us could

 

 

This group of girls from a San Francisco
playground is finding real joy in singing.

sing to her then? The number who could is
increasing.

For example, a recent national conference of
public school music supervisors meeting in Chi—
cago gave the writer occasion to seek assistance
from his friend the Choirmaster of the University
of Chicago. The main consideration for the con—
ference was the conversion of the greatly enlarged
musical training given in schools into admirable
amateur singing and playing in all the years and
places of life outside the schools. 50 a month or
more in advance we asked the Choirmaster whether
he could provide a small group of young men and
women who would sing some madrigals or the
like in the spirit and style of Elizabethan times.
“This is a coincidence,” he replied. “Only a few
days ago a group of students came to me saying
that they wished to gather on Sunday evenings
for coffee and—instead of bridge—madrigals.
‘What shall we sing?” they asked.” They sang
at the conference some madrigals and a specially

arranged folk song; all without accompaniment,
of course, and without printed music and a leader.
They sat, twelve of them, in a semi-circle as
though grouped about a dinner table, with appro—
priate ease and geniality, and their singing was
said to be the most lovely and delightful of any
heard during the musically full week of the con-
ference.

It is true that some people cannot or do not sing
as beautifully as other people can or do. Perhaps
W Byrd was right when,
for one of his eight rea—
sons, he said that:

“It (singing) is the
only way to know where
Nature hath bestowed
the benefit of a good
voyce; which guift is too
rare, as there is not one
among a thousand, that
hath it. And in many,
that excellent guift is
lost, because they want
Art to express Nature."

But it is a very re-
markable thing that any
person of ordinary in-
telligence who can make
“human sounds in tune”
(the sole requirement
for entrance into the
superb Harvard Glee
Club) can in a well-led
chorus attain a degree of artistic expression and
joy that is given only to the most expert instru-
mentalists and solo singers to attain. Who are the
people in the great Bethlehem Bach Choir (and
many another chorus) who sing music as noble
and beautiful as anything in the world?

They are men and women in the ordinary jobs
of life, not musicians. One of them said, “There
are few of us I’d walk across the street to hear
sing a solo. But when we sing together, I’d travel
a thousand miles to listen.” Their conductor in-
advertently explains a very important element in
his power as a leader while pointing to the usually
unrealized possibilities of the ordinary untrained
singer when he says: “You can be a true artist
without an exceptional voice, or without a good
ear for music, or without sight-reading ability.
Training and devotion to great choral music will
almost certainly enable you to attain the heights

of artistic power.”*

*The Bethlehem Bach Chair, by Raymond \Valters, Houghton-
Mifiiin Company.

32 MUSIC IN AMERICAN LIFE

Church Music

A church choir in Flint, Michigan, is an im-
pressive example of the effects of religious de-
votion coupled with the choice of excellent music.
There are forty American men and women in this
choir, all of them volunteers and all of them work-
ing people. The choirmaster himself, a man of
about thirty-five years of age, was for a number
of years a worker in one of the automobile fac-
tories. He sang in the Industrial Mutual Associa-
tion Glee Club there and studied singing. Fail-
ing health forced him out of the factory into more
intensive study of music and a position as choir-
master. His wife attends every rehearsal, though
they have five children and she does all the house—
work. When commended for the devotion that
brings her to the choir despite all that she has to
do, she said, “Why that’s nothing. There is
Mrs. , she also has five children. And there is
Mrs. , who has three children. We all have
much to do."

The church building is not at all admirable in-
side or outside and betokens a financially poor
congregation. There is a piano and a_ small organ,
but the choir has no need for either, for it sings
a cappella. A rehearsal observed by the writer
began promptly at seven-thirty, every member
present, though at that time the choirmaster was
engaged in talking to the visitor. A tall gray-
haired gentleman, who works in an automobile
factory, arose and while the members of the choir
bowed their heads he improvised the following
prayer:

“Our dear Heavenly Father, we thank Thee for
this privilege of coming to this place tonight to
sing. We thank Thee for the voices given us,
and may we use them to Thy honor and Thy
glory that through our work we may bring others
into the great work. Bless us as we meet here.
Bless our hearts together. Bless our leaders. We
ask it all in Jesus’ name. Amen.”

His manner and speaking expressed the utmost
genuineness and strength of feeling. (This is
a church chair, for the glory of God—as Bach

used to say—not a mere grand opera quartet or
concert chorus.)

 

 

Then the assistant choirmaster stepped for-

ward, a chord was played on the piano and the.

choir sang. It was beautiful! The visitor, an
itinerant investigator compelled to listen to dozens
of rehearsals and concerts in a month, was for
several minutes scarcely able to see through the
tribute of tears irresistibly drawn from him. First

came a Bach Chorale and then the Christiansen
'0. Beautiful Saviour, followed by one of the
mighty Russians in a praiseful mood, all without
accompaniment and all finely vibrant with the
vitality of those deeply rooted impulses out of
which music, real music, has throughout the ages
sprung. It was not always perfect in quality, but
it was amazingly good, and the intention, the
inner quality, of it was such as is never heard
where music is merely entertainment, something
superadded to life, not inherent in it. This choir
has by invitation sung in churches in nearby towns
and in one in Detroit, and has thereby inspired
the ministers and music committees to want a
similar choir in their own churches.

There is no other art or craft, or any other
means of musical expression, in which the un-
skilled individual can come so near to being an
artist himself as he can through choral singing;

that is if he wants to do so. And that usually

means if there is a leader who can inspire him
through the music to want to do so—perhaps to
surprise him into being so. The music that makes
this magic possible may be very simple. Even the
kindergarten child’s singing of a simple folk song
may be as lovely and perfect a thing as has ever
been heard or seen.

Playing

On a Sunday afternoon in Kalamazoo, about
two thousand people are gathered in a very hand-
some high school auditorium to hear a symphony
concert. First comes Weber with Der F reisch-utz,
then the Beethoven Eroica, then from a baritone
an opera aria and, after the intermission, some
Brahms and American songs, and Finally the
Tschaikowsky Nutcracker Suite, all performed
admirably. What complete symphony orchestra
of seventy-five players is this? Is it from De-
troit or Chicago? No, it is the Kalamazoo Sym-
phony Orchestra, which gives ten such concerts
to equally large audiences each year.

Who are the players? The concert master is a
violin teacher who fled to this country from the
Russian Revolution. He was educated in the
Petrograd Conservatory under a grant from the
Czar’s government. The principal French Horn
player is 'also a Russian musician, left stranded
by the financial difficulties of an opera company
with which he was touring. He earns a living
as a worker in a paper factory. Twenty-three
others are professional players and members of
the Musicians” Union who, by a special agreement

MUSIC IN AMERICAN LIFE 33

made with the Union, are permitted to play With
amateurs and to receive only an honorarium in
payment for their services. Among the fifty other
players are music teachers, an automobile dealer,
a surgeon, two grocers, clerks, college students,
two officials and three workmen in a paper mill,
an electrician, a linotype worker, a restaurant
keeper, the editor of a newspaper, two bankers,
and fifteen mothers.

No one has to pay more than fifty cents to
hear a concert, and twenty-five cent tickets are
available for students. Through a connection
with music appreciation classes in the public
schools, the orchestra presents free tickets to two
hundred pupils of those schools for each concert.
Free preparatory lectures on the music to be
played are offered to adults.
Moreover, at each concert,
all the children of some near-
by rural school, and the play—
ers in one or more small or-
chestras in nearby towns, are
invited guests.

Such an orchestra not only
provides a fine sort of ex-
pression and recreation for
a group of the city’s own
citizens, the players; but it
also provides the nearest
thing to such expression and
recreation to the hundreds of its other citizens and
children, to many of its rural and other neighbors,
and especially to those who are able also to con-
tribute to its support. It goes farther, affecting
even those who never listen to it. For, given an
honored place as it is in Kalamazoo, it points out
the kind of life that the city is standing for. Like
a beautiful park, a fine public library, an art

“There is an inward fire that is
fanned at times
Beauty does it. It is incredible
that a world with nothing here
but atoms and electrons could

center, or a stately public building, it becomes

a token and champion of the dignity and inner
life of the pe0ple.

It is not unreasonable to hope that every city
or town or group of towns of ten thousand or
more people will have its own civic chorus, civic
orchestra, and, in the summer, admirable band
concerts. Recent developments in the schools and
colleges, and the promise of an increasing pro-
vision of leaders by the Juilliard Music School,
other similar schools, the National Orchestral So-
ciety, and by the best universities, offers basis
enough for this hope. But the most blessed abode
of music is the home.

One evening in a Western city the writer visited
the home of a violin teacher when he and ten

ever have cared about color and
harmony, made the evening star,
and the Fifth Symphony, and
cathedrals, that, as Ruskin said,

are like frozen prayers.”—Harry
Emerson Fosdick, D.D.

 

other musical adventurers were exploring the
Wolf-Ferrari Chamber Symphony for solo
strings, woodwinds, horn, and piano. Earlier in
the evening the Beethoven Septet had been played.
These eleven or a smaller group of them meet
regularly to play just for the love and joy of it.
The string bass player, seventy-five years old, is
a janitor in a dance hall. “It’s all that I live for,”
he said, holding out his instrument. 'The oboe
player is a letter carrier, the flutist a waitress in a
cafeteria, and the others, with the exception of
the violin teacher, are similarly innocent of any
professional intentions. After a romantic rise to
a fine climax in the music, a beautiful, expansive
flute melody soared out of all reach of circum-
stance and the mundane needs of life. It was
very moving to see the face
of that frail-looking wait-
ress aglow with the libera-
tion and warmth of that tune.
There she was, free, at her
best, a member of the noble
order of craftsmen: a com-
rade, however humble, not
only of the superb singers and
players in the great profes-
sionial concerts and recitals
———“Tis we musicians know”
——-but also of all other good
workmen in every art. Then
“Allons! After the great companions, and to be-
long to them !”—to Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, and
the others of the glorious company.

Music in American life? We have caught only
a glimpse of a few of its many aspects, but
enough, we hope, to show that it is often most
delightful where it is most humble. The musical

into a blaze.

training in the public schools, and the power of

the radio and especially of such free or inexpen-
sive “living” concerts as have been described, are
gradually breaking down the barriers between the
so-called “high brow” and the “low brow” in
music. More and more people are,coming to
realize that this is an artificial distinction, that
amidst the great abundance of real, lasting music
of all kinds, from the simplest folk tune to a
Beethoven symphony, any one who really wants to
do so, no matter how uncultured he thinks he is,
can find his way again and again to the full de-
light of beauty. His way may lead through such
concerts, choruses and orchestras as have been
referred to in this article, but there are many other
activities through which it may lead. The ex-
pressiveness and joy in them are what count!

Vitalized
Commencements

and

Leisure

A Few Practical
Hints

\\ HEN man plays he becomes an artist.
WThis suggests the great educational
significance of recreation. . . \Vhat
man does in his leisure hours shapes his person-
ality and moulds his character.” Leisure has come
to the masses. People now need to be educated
for leisure as much as for vocation. Every com-
munity can profit by a study of this question in
its local setting.

Much will be done early which will yield large
results with little effort. No amount of efi‘ort
toward the end of the year can accomplish as
much. The following steps should be taken early
in the school year:

(1) Plans should be laid, the general plan being
definitely outlined.

(2) The patrons and general public should be
made acquainted with the plans and the theme
selected.

(3) All community agencies such as churches,
civic clubs, and chambers of commerce should be
invited to participate in preparing the public for,
and interesting people in the program. These
agencies will be interested if the program is to be
built around a topic of community significance.

Practical Hints

The following suggestions are primarily suited
to high schools but may also be adapted to the
junior high-school advancement.

(1) Survey of Leisure Facilities. Let the
graduating class make a survey of community
facilities for leisure, the results to be woven into
the commencement program. This survey could
be carried on in a scientific manner and correlated

34

The Journal of the National Educa-
tion Association has taken the lead in
calling attention to the civic and spirit-
ual importance of the commencement
season. Now The Journal, in an article

in the December, 1930 number which is
reproduced here, urges that the use of
leisure be made the theme of commence-
ment essays, and suggests the prep-
aratory steps to be taken throughout
the year to interest the community.

 

with classwork especially in the field of the social
sciences. Community clubs will be glad to listen
to the reports of such surveys. Local newspapers
will wish to give Space to such a study.

(2) Leisure and Life. Make a survey showing
how wise use of leisure insures success in business
or profession as well as in life. (a) Recall how
wise use of extra time helped Lincoln, Roosevelt,
and many others to succeed; (b) point out how
the most successful men of the community and
former graduates of the school spend their leisure;
(c) does the out of school time of the pupil affect
his in-school record?

(3) Helps for Surveys and Essays. Useful
points to take into consideration in making the
above surveys and as topics for essays and ad-
dresses are the following (a) what is leisure; (b)
growth and spread of leisure; (c) economic as-
pects of leisure; (d) cultural aspects of leisure;
(e) what leisure means for the individual; (f)
what leisure means for the community; (g) leisure
and society; (h) leisure facilities lacking in our
community; (i) the school’s part in solving the
leisure problem; () the home and leisure; (k)
the church and leisure.

How Schools Train for Wise Use of Leisure.
Here is how (i) above may be subdivided: (1)
by teaching reading, writing, and other basic
skills; (2) by teaching appreciation of art, music,
and other cultural fields; (3) by interesting pupils
in civic and social welfare; (4) by helping the
pupil in school to use spare hours profitably at the
crucial age of his life; (5) by holding community
functions such as lecture courses and musicals,
which provide wholesome entertainment for all;
(6) by providing playgrounds and play apparatus,
and teaching games which may be continued in

(Continued on page 52)

 

Scene from The Clock Shop

The Graduation Play

Prepared by the Community Drama Service,
National Recreation Association

N most grammar schools or unior high schools
I the commencement play is an important fea—

ture of the graduation program, frequently
the most important feature, and the teacher must
provide each year a play that will at least measure
up to the foregoing plays and will permit the ma-
jority of the class to appear. For it is all im-
portant that as many boys and girls as possible
have the opportunity to take part in this momen—
tous performance. The character of the com-
mencement play differs widely, according to
precedent, locality, and facilities, but whether it
is the pageant depicting youth wending its way
through rose-covered gates to receive the crown of
victory, or whether it is a colorful folk drama, it
is the most attractive event of graduation week
and it is the one play that must not be a failure
or a disappointment.

At this time of the year the provident teacher

begins to look over the market for the play that
will be the most successful vehicle for her parti-
cular group of boys and girls. It is with the aim
of assisting her in this difficult task that the fol-
lowing list of plays has been compiled. We have
confined our attention almost entirely to the eighth
grade and junior high school. Few senior high
schools give plays at commencement time and
when they do they usually use the full evening
comedies. The plays suggested do not run more
than an hour and a half and the majority of them
play from thirty to forty-five minutes. When the
senior high school has been considered we have the
small or rural school in mind.

While many of these titles suggest the fairy
plays of a younger age, they are in reality quite
sophisticated and satisfying to the young adult
who is usually disdainful of anything smacking of
childishness. The professional theatre has used

35

36 THE GRADUATION PLAY

the modern interpretation of fairy and folk lore
for many years. Now such plays are being written
for young people and serve as an admirable bridge
between the children’s plays and the long plays
dealing entirely with adult life.

The following plays have been selected by the
Community Drama Service as the most attractive
material for graduation. Nearly all of them have
been used for that purpose with decided success.
When a royalty fee is indicated it is necessary to
apply to the publisher for the quotation and ar-
rangements to produce.

Long Plays

The Princess and the Swineherd by Gwendolen
Seiler. 3 acts. 4 girls, 16 boys, extras. A number
of the masculine roles can be played by girls. A
director who produced the play last year wrote,
“It is the best play for junior high schools that I
have ever used.” The old tale is charmingly re-
told in modern speech and it has an ending that is
entirely new and delightful. The incidental music
is included in the book. We recomend this play
f0r high schools as well as junior high. Apply to

Samuel French for royalty quotation. Macmillan.
$1.75.

The Jester’s Parse by N ydia E. Minchin. Three
episodes. From 30 to 100 or more children can
be used in this play. King Hal’s jester loses his
purse and finds it again at the Mayfair. Gypsies,
people of the court and country folk mingle in
gay spectacles. A favorite graduation play. Con-
tained in “The Jester’s Purse.” Royalty. Har-
court, Brace and Co. $1.50.

Sir Richard Serves His King by .Ida May
Owen. A Robin Hood play in three acts. 6 girls,
16 boys and many extras. A well developed play
with dancing and music, based on the old story
of Robin Hood’s winning of the king’s archery
contest. Like many of these plays, though several
scenes are indicated it can be presented before a
plain curtain without change of scenery. In

“The Jester’s Purse.” Royalty. Harcourt, Brace.
$1.50.

Simple Simon by Josephine Elliott Krohn. 2
acts. 6 scenes. 47 characters. This whimsical
dramatization is robust enough to satisfy the

almost-grown-up and its charm is irresistable. In
“Old King Cole.” Doubleday, Doran. $1.50.

Aladdin by Clare Tree Major. 3 acts. 10 char-

acters and extras. This dramatization of the
oriental tale is an unusually good one, there are
several important roles and there is enough skill
demanded of the actor to challenge boys and girls
of junior high school age. In “Playing Theatre.”
Oxford University Press. Permission of the
author necessary. $2.50.

The Prince’s Secret by Clare Tree Major. 3
short acts. 11 characters and extras. A mystery
play set in Old Spain. A good deal of action and
suspense. In “Playing Theatre.” Oxford Univer-
sity Press. Permission of the author necessary.

$2.50.

Helga and the White Peacock by Cornelia
Meigs. 3 acts. 8 characters. A play of unusual
beauty and literary value. Helga, held captive by
the Trolls, is rescued by her brother who finds
that what he thought were bars of steel were only
spider’s webs. Macmillan. $1.

The Steadfast Princess by Cornelia Meigs. 2
acts 14 characters and extras. Simple, beautiful
writing enhances this play of a Princess who, in
spite of many temptations, remains faithful to her
people. Macmillan. $.75.

The Far-Away Princess by Hermann Suder-
mann. 1 long act. 2 boys, 7 girls. A romantic

youth meets the princess travelling incognito.
Suitable for senior high schools. French. $.75.

Lantern Light by Olive Price. 3 short acts. 13
characters and extras. A simple and very dra-
matic play of New England witchcraft. Recom-

mended for the eighth grade. French. $.50.

Shorter Plays

The Clock Shop by John Golden. 7 characters
and extras. A musical fantasy of the love of two
little Dutch clocks. A charming play for the

young adult. In “Three John Golden Plays.”
Royalty. French. $1.35.

Six Who Pass While the Lentils Boil by Stuart
Walker. 7 boys, 2 girls. A fantastic comedy in
the manner of a fairy tale. David hides the Queen
from the executioner until the hour for her be-
heading has passed. Royalty. Appleton. $.50.

Sir David Wears a Crown by Stuart Walker.
13 boys, 4 girls. A sequal to the above play.
David is rewarded for saving the Queen. Royalty.

Appleton. $.50.

THE GRADUATION PLAY 37

The Happy Man by M. E. Irwin. 6 girls, 8
boys. The story of a king whose only hope for
recovery from an illness was to wear the shirt of

a happy man. When the happy man was found
he had no shirt. Oxford University Press. $.20.

The Romance of the Willow Pattern by Ethel
Van der Veer. Prologue and seven very short
acts. 4 boys, 1 girl. To be produced in the
manner of the Chinese Theatre, without scenery
or curtains. It is the story of the familiar blue

willow ware plate, charmingly told. Royalty.
French. $.35.

The Knave of Hearts by Louise Saunders. 15
characters. The Knave of Hearts becomes a thief
in order to conceal the fact that the Lady Violetta
is a disgracefully bad cook. There is a special
appeal to junior high school age in the humor of
this play. Royalty. Longmans, Green. $.50.

The Blackbird Pie by Clayton R. Wise. 16
characters and extras. An altogether intriguing
dramatization of the old jingle. Recommended for
eighth grade graduation and types of children
especially interested in fantasy. Baker. $.25.

The Prince Who Was a Piper by Harold Brig-
house. 5 boys, 5 girls. The prince is able to be
happy through his art as a musician. A pleasant

theme for the graduating class. Royalty. French.
$.50.

Told in a Chinese Garden by Constance Wilcox.
6 boys, 3 girls. Chinese costumes. A delightful,

romantic comedy, with a Chinese background.
Royalty. French. $.30.

Fernseed in the Shoe by Ethel Van der Veer.
9 characters. A romantic young lady of medieval
times puts fernseed in her shoe, thinking to see
fairies. She meets instead, not the prince of
fairy land, but the very prince of the realm. In
addition to an interesting plot, this little play is
valuable for its poetry and usefulness in encourag—
ing good diction. Royalty. French. $.35.

The Stolen Prince by Dan Totheroh. 13 char-
acters. A play in the Chinese manner. Simple
and effective drama for boys and girls who are

easily captivated by the more subtle type of humor.
In “Short Plays.” Royalty. Houghton Miffln.

$2.

Hilltop by Louise Ayres Garnett. 12 characters
and extras. Peter who wished to leave his home

finds that there is adventure even on the familiar
hilltop. In “Three to Make Ready.” Royalty.
Doubleday, Doran. $1.50.

Plays and Pageants on the Subject of

Commencement

Memories by Olive Price. Plays about an hour.
15 characters. A commencement pageant and
ceremony including recitations of famous poems

in the framework of a plot. In “Short Plays from

American History and Literature.” ‘French. $1.85.

Plays for Graduation Days edited by A. P. San-
ford. A collection of thirteen plays for various
types of commencement programs. Some are
long, some short and the subjects vary with spe-
cial view to grammar and junior high school needs.

Dodd, Mead. $2.50.

The Gateway by Walter L. Bissell. Plays 45
minutes. 20 to 27 characters. A pleasing allegory
of the graduate taking leave of school days and

making her way out into the world. Royalty.
Drama Book Shop. $.50.

The Builders by Walter L. Bissell. I hour. 30
to 70 characters._ Youth looks upon the Temple
of the Nation and the achievements of the past
are revealed to him as a guide to his own future.

Royalty. Drama Book Shop. $.60.

The Setting of the Sail by Beulah B. Woolard.
30 to 50 or more participants. Old graduation
customs are combined with pageantry in this play
for Senior Class Day exercises. Royalty. French.

$.35.

The World Outside by Beulah B. Woolard. 30

to 50 or more in cast. A popular pageant-play
for the community high school. Royalty. French.

$.35.

The Recompense by Holmes and Carey. Plays
about an hour. Students from modern temples of
learning are transported to Olympus to demon-
strate to the gods that mankind has lost none of
his former glory of achievement. Royalty if ad-
mission is charged. Barnes. $.50.

Note: All plays listed may be purchased from
the Drama Book Shop, 48 West 52nd Street, New
York City.

 

PUBLIC - S P I R-
IT E D citizens are

Parks Donated to

New York State donating la nd fo r

parks not only to
municipalities but to states. A large part of each

of two parks maintained by the Finger Lakes
State Parks Commission of New York has been
donated by private citizens. In 1920 Mr. and
Mrs. Robert H. Treman of Ithaca, New York,
gave to the State of New York,'389 acres of land
forming the nucleus around which Enheld Glen
State Park has been formed and developed. The
park now contains 850 acres. The donated acres
cover the glen, which is about two and a half
miles long and contains twelve waterfalls, one of
them 115 feet high. The other gift of Mr. and
Mrs. Treman consists of 164 acres now known as
Buttermilk Falls State Park. This property,
donated in 1924, consists of two glens witlr ten
waterfalls. In a distance’ of one mile the main
glen falls more than 500 feet in a series of rapids,
cascades, and waterfalls.

 

AT a meeting of the
town council of
Bloomfield, New Jer-
sey, on February 2nd.
$25,000 was appropriated .to start the improvement
and devel0pment of Wright Field. This will take
care of about two-fifths of the total development.
An outdoor theatre will be laid out on this field.
A field house at Hoover Playground has been
completed where over $4,000 will be spent for a
9 foot fence. The Carteret Home and School
Association has presented a resolution to the

38

Bloomfield, New Jersey,
Develops Property

council asking for the immediate establishment of
a playground on some town owned property.

MR. and Mrs. T.
Coleman Du Pont
were long friends of
the recreation move-
ment. Mr. du Pont before his death gave
$230,000 toward the purchase of 589 acres of
land around Cumberland Falls, Kentucky, that
Cumberland Falls might become the property of
Kentucky, Mr. du Pont’s native state. Recently
Mrs. du Pont and the other heirs of the estate
placed in the hands of the Kentucky authorities
$170,000 additional so that the entire purchase is
now completed.

A Gift to
Kentucky

SINCE the spring of
1930, $135,000 in
bonds has been issued
and work has been
given to hundreds of unemployed in Perth
Amboy, New Jersey, with the following results:
The stadium grounds have been completed and
beautified and now contain football and baseball
fields, a grandstand for 2,500 people, bleachers
for 2,000, lockers, showers, and similar facilities.
The football field was flooded this winter with
a spraying system for ice skating and lighted by
flood lights. Below the football field there is a
beautihed area the size of two city blocks with ten-
nis courts, seats, and winding walks. Eventually
the next level will be developed as a children’s
playground, and below this there will be a smaller
playing field with bleachers for about 1.000 and

Perth Amboy Makes
Progress

 

facilities for soccer, bicycle polo, and similar
games. Hayes Park has been filled in and graded,
the river front beautified and eight new clay ten-
nis courts finished. Just beyond this there will be
a children’s playground. In Kearny Park a ball
field has been finished and an artistic rock retain-
ing wall along the river has been built and beauti-

hed with shrubbery. Two grandstands, each
seating 500, have been installed. In Washington
Park a ball field has been completed and a grand—
stand erected for 600 people. The children’s play-
ground has been re-located in the park and the
entire area has been beautihed and fenced.

THE DRAMA

Tournament, held in
observance of Nation—
al Drama Week at the
Somerville, Massachusetts, evening recreation cen—
ters, aroused much interest among the hundreds
of men and women attending the centers and
their friends. Four audiences on four succes-
sive nights at four centers witnessed four one-act
plays given in competition, each play representing
the efforts of one dramatic club from one center.

The dramatic club at the Morse center has
already given several one-act plays this season
and has entertained visitors from other centers.

Somerville’s Drama
Tournament

PROPOSED PARK
Reservations for East
Bay Cities is the title
of the report incorpo—
rating the survey made of the recreational needs
of the nine cities bordering the east shore of San

A Survey of East Bay
Cities, California

Beauty in all its tul-
ness is not to be
found in crowded
streets. Woods and
waterfalls speak a
language one can
not hear in the roar
of cities.

Francisco Bay. The report, which contains many
photographs, offers definite recommendations for
recreational developments. “Now that the cities
are becoming more completely built up and much
progress has been made on the various other muni-
cipal problems, it may be and should be possible
to arouse interest in the necessity for setting aside
park areas for enjoyment and healthful recreation,
and to establish a priceless heritage for the
future.”

H A P P Y VOICES
was the title of the
community festival
and mask presented
by the Crispus Attucks Recreation and Commu-
nity Center for colored citizens of Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, under the auspices of the Lancaster
Playground and Recreation Association. Music
and drama were features of the program, and
Paul Green’s N 0 ’Count Boy was presented by the
Paul Robeson Players of Lancaster. On February
17th these players repeated the play at The Melody
of Color, a community pageant and mask given
under the auspices of the Colored Civic League
and the Recreation Board of Greenwich, Con-
necticut.

Colored Citizens
Present Programs

S T E U B E N -
VILLE, OHIO, with
a population of 35,-
422, has recently pur-
chased a park for $50,000 and has issued bonds
for $40,000 to improve the park. In February ”
the City Council authorized the issuance of notes

39

Even in Hard
Times!

40 WORLD AT PLAY

and bonds amounting to $25,000 for the construc-
tion of a recreation center for colored citizens.
Land for the new center, which will be built on
the old low pressure reservoir site, was trans-
ferred by the Council from the control of the
Service Department to the City Recreation Board.
Plans for the center call for the construction of a
swimming pool, playground and community house
which will contain locker rooms, auditorium and
gymnasium space. This plant will be the third

municipal center constructed in the last year and
a half.

Westchester County Prepares for Music
Festival.-——-Preparations are under way for the
Westchester County, New York, Music Festival
which this year will be held May let, 22nd and
23rd. Under the auspices of the County Recrea-
tion Commission, the Westchester Choral Society
has conducted a competition for the promotion of
a high standard of music and the rewarding of the
groups judged to be the best. Six classifications
have been established—one for mixed choruses
numbering over 75, one for mixed choruses under
75, and classifications for men’s choruses, women’s
choruses, mixed choirs and boys’ choirs (including
not less than 16 singers). A silver cup will be
awarded the winning group in each classification,
but the principal prize, which will go to the group
winning the highest number of points in the entire
competition, is a place on the program of the
Music Festival. The winners will sing on Satur-
day evening, May 23rd, the closing event of the
three day festival. A committee of judges from
outside Westchester County will judge the con-
testants for tone, enunciation, ensemble, inter-
pretation and pitch, each to count 20 points. The
contesting groups will be judged on two numbers,
one a selection of their own choice which may or
may not be accompanied and the other one of a
number of required selections to be sung a capella.

“Ye Olden Times.”—Recalling the days of
hoop skirts, stand-up collars and one horse shays,
dances popular in the dim past were revived on
March 5th in Los Angeles, California, when an
Old-Fashioned Dance Festival was held at Echo
Community Center under the auspices of the
Playground and Recreation Department. Dressed
in appropriate costumes, couples pirouetted and
wheeled through the intricate movements of the
quadrille, Virginia reel and old-fashioned waltz.
During the intermission of the program a contest
for old-time fiddlers was held.

Music in a New Rochelle Park.—-—The De-
partment of Parks, Docks and Harbors in New
Rochelle, New York, has erected a band shell in
Hudson Park at New Rochelle on the waterfront
of Echo Bay. A concert by a 25-piece band is
usually presented in this band shell on Sunday
evenings and holidays. For use on other after-
noons during the week, the Department has in-
stalled in the dressing room at the rear of the
shell a Capehart Orchestrope with radio attached,
the orchestrope playing 28 records, automatically
turning them so- that 56 records are played con-
secutively without a repeat. This takes approxi-
mately four hours. When anything of impor-
tance is being broadcast by the various radio sta-
tions, the radio that is attached to the orchestrope
is utilized to broadcast the program through the
speaker used for the orchestrope rec0rd reproduc-
tion. This speaker is made up of six large
Wright-DeCosta units arranged on a celotex board
made up like a large picture frame and rolled to
the center of the platform on small rollers attached
to the bottom of the speaker frame.

The Department has had remarkable success
with this apparatus, the units functioning perfect-
ly and the amplification and acoustics being pro-
duced most effectively. This the Department
credits to the splendid band shell.

Playground Music in Altoona.—At the pres-
ent time Altoona, Pennsylvania, has a boys’
chorus, a girls’ chorus, a Ukulele Club for girls,
a harmonica band, ukulele and harmonica classes
for beginners, and a chorus for colored citizens.
The Department of Parks and Recreation is now
planning a Melody Club for boys interested in
playing musical instruments as well as singing.
At the beginning the activities will be confined to
the harmonica, stringed instruments and possibly
a few reed instruments.

Reconciliation Trips.—-There is a group in
New York which, under the title’of Reconciliation
Trips, is conducting tours about the city to ac-
quaint native born Americans with the customs
and traditions of the foreign born residents. Trips
are taken, for example, to the Syrian section and
Chinatown. Leaders are in charge who are ac-
quainted with the customs of the various foreign
born groups. Mimeographed bulletins are issued
outlining the trip and giving detailed directions.
The address of Reconciliation Trips is 211 West
56th Street, New York.

WORLD AT PLAY 41

The Westchester Trails Association—The
Westchester Trails Association, Westchester
County, New York, has published a schedule of
1931 spring outings. The booklet not only gives
information about the outings scheduled—destina-
tion, costs, distances, starting place and time, and
transportatio'nubut also announces events on the
program of the Westchester County Recreation
Commission of general interest to hikers.

February Parties.—In observance of Lin-
coln’s Birthday, St. Valentine’s Day and Washing-
ton’s Birthday, hundreds of children throughout
Los Angeles, California, took part in a colorful
series of plays, operettas and pageants at muni—
cipal playgrounds in every section of the city. A
total of 31 of these presentations were offered
with an aggregate cast of 650 boys and girls.
Hundreds of costumes representative of Colonial
times were sent out to municipal recreation centers
by the Playground and Recreation Department

Costume Shop.

Irvington Takes Count—Each person par—
ticipating in an activity conducted by the Depart-
ment of Public Recreation of Irvington, New
Jersey, is registered in a card index file. During
the year 1930, 7,489 of these cards were filed.
Under the title of Accumulative Participation the
Department takes count of the number of times
the different people registered took part in sched—
uled activities. Spectators are designated as audi-
ence at concerts as well as the individuals who
attend the games and similar activities. Excluding
spectators and audiences, 13 per cent of Irving-
ton’s population of 56,745 actually participated in
the 1930 department program. A conservative
estimate of all participants and spectators would
be 25 per cent of the entire population. The
number of boys and girls in department activities
was at least one—half of the total of school age
population. And the cost per participant was 9
cents!

A Coordination Committee in San Francis-
co.—A few months ago at the request of the
chief of police, the Playground Commission of
San Francisco, California, made a somewhat de-
tailed study of a delinquency area in the city. As
a result of this study four recommendations were
made. The first was that a Coordination Com-
mittee be formed in order that municipal depart-
ments working most closely with children would
be in a better position to visualize the entire field.

Such a committee has been organized consisting
of the chief of police, chief probation officer,
superintendent of schools, and superintendent of
playgrounds. The second recommendation to the
effect that the playground located in this particular
area be lighted for night use has also been put

. into effect. The third recommendation was that a

recreation center be opened for night activities.
The committee was able to obtain a large aban-
doned church in the heart of the district and with
the help of private funds, opened a recreation cen—
ter which is reaching primarily delinquent boys.
The center has been crowded every night and the
program is progressing beyond the greatest hopes
of the committee.

The fourth recommendation was that a director
at large be placed in the district to work where
and when it seemed advisable, to reach the indi-
viduals and gangs. This director, who was em-
ployed immediately after the acceptance of the
survey, has been able to do very fine work.

Administration Costs in Los Angeles.—In
the annual financial report for the year ending
June 30, 1930, of the Department of Playground
and Recreation, Los Angeles, California, figures
are given regarding the average individual costs of
administering playgrounds and other recreation
facilities. These costs, based on net cost of opera—
tion, are as follows: for playgrounds, $0567 ; for
local camps, .477 ; for mountain camps, .193; for
men’s clubs, .0109; for swimming pools, .093; for

practice golf, .079; for beaches, .0081.

Cleveland, Ohio, Provides for Athletics.—
Cleveland’s $2,000,000 stadium is under way and
practically all the land has been purchased for a
new athletic center which will probably cost in

the neighborhood of $500,000.

Public Beach Officials Discuss Mutual

Problems.——Los Angeles County, California, has
a committee known as the Public Beach C oordina-

tion Committee of Municipal and County Beaches.
The Committee, which was formed in March,
1930, has as its objective the provision of periodic
conferences at which operators of public beaches
within the county might discuss their mutual prob-
lems. It was felt that the Committee could help in
bringing the profession of the beach life guard
to a higher plane of efficiency and raise the stand—
ard of service. During the year the Committee
has met each month and has discussed such prob-

42 WORLD AT PLAY

lems as personnel, safety, equipment, maintenance
problems, beach play and recreation equipment,
and beach rules and ordinances.

Activities in Detroit.——Over 9,000,000 people
last year attended the activities promoted by the
Detroit, Michigan, Recreation Department, and

the Department had under its jurisdiction 140 '

playgrounds, 29 swimming pools, 200 skating
' rinks, 148 tennis courts, 39 ball diamonds, 14 foot-
ball gridirons, 18 soccer fields, 2 bowling greens,
14 field hockey courts, 4 cricket pitches, and 1‘20
horseshoe pitches. The Department also has 3
well equipped community centers and a summer
recreation camp. Thirty-nine different pieces of
property totaling 547 acres are owned by the De-
partment.

The per capita cost of recreation in Detroit is

.079.

Tacoma’s Archery Club.—The Archery Club
sponsored by the Recreation Department of Ta-
coma, Washington, is now housed in the second
floor of a building converted from a junk room
and workshop into a first-class 30-yard, five target
range. A back dr0p made of old rugs and heavy
paper was hung about 18 inches from one end to
stop all arrows missing the targets. The regula-
tion four foot target is used although some
thought has been given to reducing its size accord-
ing to a scale for distance. In the end of the
room Opposite the targets, behind the firing line,
is a huge stove to furnish heat and incidentally to
keep a large pot of coffee steaming for every
festive occasion. A kitchen sink, cupboards, table
and light sockets, all add to the convenience of the
place. The club after eighteen months of exist-
ence enjoys a membership of thirty, both men and
women, and has taken part in several tournaments
including the state tournament which was held in
Tacoma last June.

Outdoor Dancing—The Board of Park Com-
missioners of Hartford, Connecticut, in its annual
report for the year ending March 31, 1930, re-
ports a very successful season at the outdoor danc-
ing pavilion at Colt Park. This pavilion is the
center for large gatherings of from 3,000 to 5,000
grown-ups and children every evening except Sun-
days from Decoration Day until the middle of
September. The adults enjoy the music, while
their children play under leadership on the larger
playground and the young people enjoy dancing

for the small fee of 10 cents. (During the season
there were 125,500 paid admissions.) The best
sixteen piece orchestra procurable furnishes the
music for two hours beginning at 8 :30 and ending

at 10:30 P. M.

Girls’ Hobby Display in Cincinnati.—
Girls’ Week Hobby Display was held March 16th
to let under the auspices of the Cincinnati, Ohio,
Public Recreation Commission in cooperation with
public and private women’s organizations in the
city interested in the welfare of girls. There were
three classifications for entrants—(a) girls up to
14 years of age inclusive as of March 1, 1931 (b)
girls 15 to 18 years of age (c) girls 19 years of
age and over. The exhibits, which were required
to be the work of the exhibitor and her property,
consisted of handcraft, art work, music and
poetry, sewing, cooking, photOgraphy, millinery,
dolls, natural history collections, flowers and
plants, and special exhibits.

Coasting in Oswego.—The City of Oswego.
New York, has been very successful in its hand-
ling of coasting. The plan involves the stationing
of a starter at the top of each hill, barriers at all
intersections and in general watchmen posted at
intersections. The hills are all iced and there
is one hill seven blocks long. Last winter there
were only two minor accidents. The coasting
areas were under supervision from 3 to 10 P. M.

The Common Council has appropriated $3,800
for playgrounds and the Board of Public Works
spent $14,550 in addition on maintenance, wages,
and similar expenses.

Ice Skating in Reading—On January 25th
the Department of Public Recreation of Reading,
Pennsylvania, had its first ice skating races on the
city park rinks. The rinks used were the concrete
covers over reservoirs which contain a part of the

, city’s water supply. There are two of these, 250

feet long by 150 feet wide. In summer they are
used for tennis, volley ball, roller skating races,
organized games and mass folk dancing. In
winter they are Hooded and allowed to freeze for
ice skating. The depth of the water varies from
6 inches in the middle to 3 inches around the edges.

The north rink was used for the ice skating
races because it is screened in with wire which
keeps spectators off the ice. A boardwalk was laid
between the north and south rinks for skaters to
walk across when their events were called. The

WORLD AT PLAY 43

south rink was used for warming up purposes. An
oval course was measured off with ten laps to the
mile and on it the 100, 220, 4-4-0, and half mile
distances were measured off. The 50 and 75 yard
events were run off on a straight-away. There
were events for men, women, boys and girls, in-
cluding novelty events such as horse and rider
with a boy On skates carrying another boy, back—
ward, obstacle, centipede, and partner races. There
was also an exhibit of figure skating. Awards
were presented in the form of medals and ribbons
to winners of first, second, and third places. Over
3,000 Spectators came to watch the events which
were so successful that the races will be made an
annual affair.

A New Use for Old Covers.——hPlayground
balls so worn that they defy further service and
are scorned by the athletes, are collected eagerly
by handcraft classes in the community centers of
the Louisville, Kentucky, Recreation Department
where they are put to novel uses. The covers are
carefully ripped and the soft old leather is cut into
double octagonal pieces left joined at one side.
The octagons are each slit to permit linking.
Twenty or more pieces folded and linked together
and then finished off with a buckle, make a soft,
“swanky” belt. A use 'has been found even for
the stuffing. The balls of twine are being pre~
served for the spring kite contest and the cotton
or kapok has been put to excellent use as filling
for soft cushions made by the girls’ classes.

National Child Health Day.-——-—The 1931 pro-
gram of National Child Health Day (May 1st)
will be‘ based on the nineteen recommendations in
the C hildren’s Charter which came out of the delib-
erations of the White House Conference on Child
Health and Protection. The keynote will accord-
ingly be Community Responsibility and C oopera—
tion for Child Health and Protection. Suggestions
for the observance of the day may be secured from
the American Child Health Association, 450
Seventh Avenue, New York. C0pies of the
Children’s Charter may also be secured from this
organization.

Twenty-Five Years of Service.—On Janu-
ary 10, 1931, Theodore Wirth, Park Superintend-
ent of Minneapolis, completed twenty-five years
of active service. He is now on six months vaca-
tion With pay. Before going to Minneapolis, Mr.
Wirth had given ten years as Park Superintendent
at Hartford, Connecticut.

All who worked in the recreation movement or
the park movement are indebted to Theodore
Wirth for the generous way in which he has
shared his experience with so many others.

Girls’ Club in Tampa.——A development of
the volunteer leaders’ corps in Tampa, Florida, is
interesting a large number of girls as well as boys,
and the progress of these volunteers has been so
encouraging that in the years to come additional
staff members will undoubtedly be recruited from
this group. The girls are actively interested in
earning the points which are the basis of awards
made each spring. Girls who display special
ability in activities are presented with playground
letters upon earning 500 points.

Moving Pictures in Passaic.—During Jan-

’uary, February and March, and again from early

in October until the end of the year, motion pic-
tures Were shown weekly by the City Recreation
Department of Passaic, New Jersey, at the
Orphans Home, the International Institute and
the Passaic Poor Farm. Out-of-door movies
shown in the parks were witnessed by thousands.
These programs, consisting of comedies and
safety first films, were made possible by the De—
partment of Public Safety and the Public Service
Corporation.

An Enterprising Mothers Club.———An out-
growth of the Christmas gift making class con-
ducted by the Lansing, Michigan, Department of
Recreation has been the organization of a Mothers
Club at one of the schools. The club consists of
about forty women who devote one evening of
each month to exchanging information on hand-
craft and cooking, a second night to social recrea-
tion and a third to the discussion of home furnish-
ings and beautification. The group also gives one
hour to a program on the gymnasium floor con-‘
sisting of calisthenics, rhythmics, gymnastic
games, basketball and volley ball.

Storytelling in Altoona.——hOn September
13th the Department of Parks and Recreation of
Altoona, Pennsylvania, introduced a Saturday
morning story hour. Thirteen boys and girls were
present. The following week there were 65; the
third, 110. From that time until the first of the
year the average attendance was 214 and each
Saturday children were being turned away because
of lack of seating capacity. At the beginning of

Q

44 WORLD AT PLAY

the new year it was decided to hold one period in
the morning and one in the afternoon, and to the
surprise of the Department there were 311 present
in the morning and 206 in the afternoon. On
Saturday, February 7th, the attendance was 527
in the morning and 417 in the afternoon, making
a total of 944. The story hour consists of one-
half hour of storytelling followed by a 45-minute
program of children’s movies.

A Field Hockey and Sports Camp for 1931.
-—The Mills College, Department of Physical
Education, announces a Field Hockey and Sports
Camp to be held from June 27th through July
25th. In addition to the instruction given, the
camp offers an opportunity for a restful vacation
and for sports of all kinds. Further information
may be secured from Miss Rosalind Cassidy,

Mills College Post Office, California.

A Training School for Boat and Canoe
Counsellors.—From June 17th to 27th a school
for the instruction of boat and canoe counsellors
will be held as a part of the Red Cross First Aid
and Lifesaving Institute at the Brooklyn camp of
the Boy Scouts of America on Rock Lake, Ten
Mile River. The institute as a whole will be under
the direction of Captain Charles B. Scully, director
of lifesaving for the New York Chapter of Amer-
ican Red Cross, and further information about the
school may be secured from the American Red
Cross at Washington, D. C.

Nursery Schools and P1aythings.-—-Dr. Lois
H. Meek reports that the nursery schools have
found greater developmental values in playthings
which stimulate the creative in children and that
this idea has now reached the lay public to such

 

an extent that manufacturers and retailers of toys
have been compelled to offer fewer mechanical
toys and more playthings of the type children can
take apart and re-arrange in various combinations.

The building of toy villages, keeping store and
other types of group play are being more fostered,
Dr. Meek reports, as a result of the nursery
schools.

National Congress of Parents and Teachers
to Meet in May.——The Thirty-fifth National
Convention of the National Congress of Parents
and Teachers will be held at Hot Springs, Arkan-
sas, May 3rd to 7th. The convention theme will be
“The Challenge of the Children's Charter.” The
convention will be preceded May lst and 2nd by
the National Conference on Parent Education.
Information regarding the convention may be se-
cured from the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

A Home Arts and Industries Association.
—In London there is an association known as
Home Arts and Industries Association whose ob-
jective it is to revive and encourage the old handi-
crafts which once flourished in England. This it
seeks to accomplish by assisting instruction classes
in country districts and elsewhere and industries
fully or partially developed by granting them affili-
ation to the association, so that they may have the
opportunity of exhibiting their work at the ex-
hibitions held by the association. The association
also suggests suitable handicraft to be taken up,
teachers for classes and the best means of secur-
ing the necessary tools and raw materials. Though
the main object of the association is educational,
the council realizes the growing necessity of a

A Folk Dance School

The Federation of Amer-
ican Branches of the Eng-
lish Folk Dance Society will
hold its fifth Folk Dance
School at Massachusetts
Agricultural College, Am-
herst, Massachusetts, Aug-
ust 17 to 29, 1931. Fur-
ther information may be se-
cured from Federation of
American Branches (Miss
Susan H. Gilman, Executive
Secretary, .159 East 33rd
Street, New York City.

WORLD AT PLAY 45

craftworker finding an outlet other than through
the ordinary trade channels for his work and as-
sists in every way by helping him secure publicity
and orders for work.

A Realtor Aids Recreation Department.—
The G. Stacy Realty Company of Austin, Texas,
recently gave 11 acres of its Travis Heights devel-
opment of 234 acres for a park playground. For
every acre of land the city bought from the Stacy
Realty Company at a reduced rate, Mr. Stacy, who
is a member of the City Recreation Department,
matched the city acre for acre. In this way the
city secured 22 acres of park and playground
space.

Soccer in Philadelphia—Soccer tournaments
among the recreation centers conducted by the
Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation are proving
very popular. More than 60 teams play every
Saturday—midgets in the morning, and juniors
and seniors in the afternoon. The tournaments
are conducted on the double elimination plan.
About 700 boys are actively interested.

I

Diamond Ball Popular in Grand Forks.—
Diamond ball is an exceedingly popular sport
among the girls and women of Grand Forks,
North Dakota. There are six leagues in the
\Nomen’s Red River Diamond Ball League, each
team having a representative on the central coun-
cil. The teams are made up of business and shop
girls, young married women, students at the uni—
versity and upper class girls in high school. Many
social events are arranged during the year for the
group and there are occasional dances, picnics and
luncheons. This year’s season closed with a large
picnic attended not only by the members of the
teams but by umpires, coaches and sponsors. On
this occasion two trophies were presented—a ban-
ner to the winner and a silver sportsmanship cup
to the team showing the best spirit .and finest
sportsmanship during the season.

Information Service.—~There are many ad—
vantages in making the oflice of a department of
recreation an information bureau on all recreation
subjects, but sometimes the problems are difficult.
One director recently received a brief, business-
like letter from the teacher of a one—room rural
school in the vicinity. She enclosed a rough pen—
cil sketch of the school ground containing the
school building, a coal shed, two outhouses and

about eight clumps of shrubbery. She offered the
information that the property was 240’ by 240’
and said: “I would appreciate any suggestions you
may give regarding the placing of tennis courts,
basketball courts, baseball diamonds and other
facilities.”

We Should like to know the answer of the recre—
ation executive!

1

Nature Activities in Westchester County,
N. Y.—A wild bee hunt was the unusual program
with which the Westchester Trails Association
of Westchester County, New York, began its
autumn schedule of weekly outings. Bee-lining,
according to A. Law Boge, scientist and nature
lore scholar, who led the expedition, is an ancient
sport practised by Indians and frontiersmen,
which consists of locating the honey and bee tree
of a swarm of wild bees and the inspection of
wild bees at another bee tree. A talk on bee life
followed the experiment.

The Westchester Workshop has arranged a
series of Saturday field trips for Westchester
children and adults interested in nature study.
These will include visits to the Yonkers Museum,
the Bronx Zoological Gardens, and the American
Museum of Natural History.

A Nature Guide School.—The School of Ed-
ucation, Western Reserve University, announces
that the 1931 Nature Guide School will be held
in cooperation with Western Reserve Academy
at Hudson, Ohio, from June 22 to July 31, 1931.
Dr. William G. Vinal will be director of the
School. Provision will be made this summer for
the Junior Nature Guides, a group of girls be—
tween the ages of ten and eighteen who are
interested in nature study. Last year students
from ten states were enrolled at the School.
Practical field work will be carried on at settle-
ment camps and similar institutions. Further in-

formation may be secured from The Registrar,
School of Education, 2060 Stearns Road, Cleve—

land, Ohio.

Camp Honors.-——-“If the rewards and honors
are used, like scaffolding in house—building, as
temporary devices to get desirable action started
so that we may later remove the scaffolding and
leave the house standing in its own strength, then
we may say that the results are good. But the
test is: Can the scaffolding be removed? Will
the building stand alone? Are we in fact build-

46 WORLD AT PLAY

HAN DICRAFT WITH YARNS

 

TTRACTIVE

D e s i g n s and

Projects. Practical,

popular, and very
inexpensive.

Used by Handicraft

teachers every-
where. Write for
free illustrated cata-
logue.

“Pepperell” Yarns
excel

PEPPERELL BRAIDING COMPANY, Dept. R, East Pepperell, Mass.

ing positive interests that no longer demand or
wish rewards or honors?

“We all know a scaffolding is necessary for
an imposing structure, but we must be sure that
we are building so well that we can take away
this scaffolding after we test the strength of our
house.

“The untrained leader may easily confuse
values and fail to see that the rewards are good
only as they make themselves unnecessary.

“The conclusion of the whole matter seems thus
to be that rewards and honors must be used as
temporary devices in character-building provided
they are so understood and are soon discarded
accordingly . . . . .”——Dr. IV. H. Kilpatrick in
The W oman’s Press.

Camping in America.—N early 5,000,000 peo-
ple, including 2,000,000 children, camp yearly in
24,000 American camps approved by Camp Life,
according to its records which show that the

campers spend $300,000,000 annually for food,
clothing and equipment.

The Ramblers’ Clubs of England—England
has its Federation of Rambling Clubs with head-
quarters at 7, Buckingham Palace Gardens, Lon-
don, which has been in existence since 1905. An
attractive handbook, published yearly, is full of
information for the ramblers regarding trips,
railway cheap ticket programs and recommended
houses for refreshment in the home counties.

The objects of the Federation as stated in the
constitution will be of interest to hiking groups
in America:

(a) To maintain and preserve Ramblers’ rights
and privileges.

(b) To secure more favorable Railway and
other travelling facilities for Members of
the Clubs and Societies constituting the
Federation.

(c) To endeaver to secure special facilities for
visiting places of Historic Interest or
Natural Beauty.

((1) To preserve the amenities of the country-
side and to encourage Ramblers to ob-
serve the rights of landowners, farmers,
and country residents.

(e) To compile a Register of information
likely to be of service to constituent Clubs
and Societies.

(f) Generally to promote and protect the in-
terests of Ramblers.

Recreation and Mental Health—A recent
study made by a large insurance company of
25,000 cases of nervous breakdown, occurring
between the ages of 40 and 50, showed that over
80 per cent lacked a normal play life in childhood.
Dr. W. H. Vorbau, superintendent of the Lima,
Ohio, State Hospital for the Criminal Insane,
states that a study of the History of nearly all
the cases, both past and present, in his institution
discloses that they never played to any extent in
their pre-institutional lives. He suggests the fol-
lowing daily schedule as one most conducive to
the development and maintenance of sound men-
tal health: eight hours work, eight hours sleep
and eight hours play. The need for mentally
satisfying activities to “tone up” the nervous sys-

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY 47

tem is shaping and fashioning educational and
recreational procedure in the United States.

Free Movies for Rural Schools—As a part
of the extension work throughout McLennan

County, the Department of Recreation in Waco,
Texas, is sponsoring free movies in twelve rural
schools. This movement has the indorsement of
the county superintendent of schools and the
movies are given only to schools which request
the service. A performance is given every night
of the week except Sunday, each school listed
having a show on alternate weeks. The program
consists of an educational picture from the Uni—
versity of Texas, a feature, and a comedy. The
attendance during the month of December was
about 7,500. It is hoped through this channel to
aid rural schools in becoming real community
centers.

A Recreation Center in Yokohama.—One of
the most interesting recreation centers in Yoko-
hama, Japan, is the public bath house which is
to be found in all sections of the city at distances
of about two blocks apart. The bath consists of
a large building divided into two parts—one for
men and the other for women. The bathers enter,
pay 10 sen (5 cents) and put their clothes in
baskets. Then they take small wooden buckets
and scrub themselves thoroughly before jumping
into a very large wooden bath tub, 10 feet square,
filled with hot water. Many bathers use the
same tub or pool. By the payment of 5 sen in
addition, the more luxurious may hire a back
scrubber. The bath is the social meeting place,
the center of gossip and world news dispenser
for thousands.

Bond Issues in Ca1ifornia.—Thousands of
unemployed citizens in San Francisco, California,
have been given work through the favorable ac-
tion on a $2.500.000 bond issue. $1,400,000 of
this will be used for parks; $900,000 for boule-
vards, and $200,000 for playgrounds. There will
be thirteen new playgrounds for densely popu-
lated districts and improvements will be made
on two existing grounds.

Early in March, the citizens of Los Angeles,
California, took favorable action on a $5,000,000
unemployment relief bond issue. $1,000,000 of
this amount has been allocated to the Department
of Playgrounds and Recreation and unemployed
men will be put to work on projects involving 17
community club houses, 5 gymnasia, 6 swimming

“keep the

children (yf
the :treet: ”

718

Cities and Towns Have
Adopted it Because it

Trouble
Proof

——
tr.-

Built of Bronze, Brass,
Iron. . . . Fool-proof con-
struction. . . . . Fitted with
rustless Brass Pipe. . . . .
Each drink fresh from
water main. . . . . Self-
draining. . . . Anti-freezing.
. . . . Foot-controlled.

 

_g.__.

The Murda'ck Mfg]: slifply co'.
Established 1853
426 Plum St., Cincinnati, 0.

Murdock .
Guide or Bubble font

 

 

THE CAMP DIRECTORS MAGAZINE

A monthly, professional camp magazine for Camp
Directors, progressive educators and Recreation
Oliicials. Special Departments devoted to Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire, Woodcraft, Dude Ranches,
Camp Counselors Association are edited by their
respective National Heads:

JOSEPHINE SCHAm FOR GIRL SCOUTS

LESTER F. SCOTT FOR CAMP FIRE

ERNEST THOMPSON-SETON FOR WOODCRAFT
T. JOE CAHILL FOB DUDE RANCHES
PEGGY DOWST FOB CAMP COUNSELORS ASSO.

G. DANA YOUNGER FOR CHILDREN'S WEL-
FARE FEDERATION

Subscription price is $3.00 yearly.
Not sold on news stands

11’ you are in camping, you owe it to yourself
to subscribe to

C A M P L I F E
93 Remsen Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
Wllliam Gould Vinal—Naturo

THE EDITORIAL STAFF

Ben Solomon—~Edltor
A. E. Hamilton—Managing

Editor Albert Van Sicleu Pulling—
Arthur Lawson—Asst. Manag- Canoeing
mg Editor Kenneth S. Clark—Music

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Lloyd B. Sharp—Publlc Camps
Eugene H. Lehman

Ruby M. 30111119 Sports
CAMP In»): Cannon. 0- Ward Cramnton. MD.—

Health
Lee F. Hammer, Chairman
A. Mandelstam, Executive Sec- Abraham Mandelstam -— Dra-

retary matlcs
w

Please mention Rncm'rlox when writing advertisers

48 ACQURING PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS

  

TENNIS NETS

.a also .—

    
 

Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

All Sport Nets

This house has long

 
   
     
 

 

 

    

been headquarters

 
 

for all the above.

   

W. A. AUCUR

I 35 Fulton Street NewYork I

. Special Certificates and College Degrees
for Students and Teachers

    

of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION

AND

ATHLETIC COACHING

Penn State Summer Session
Inter-Session—June 15 to 26

Regular Session—June 29 to August 7

Wideovariety of .graduate and under—graduate courses.
Prominent coaching staff. Modern cgymnasium. An
Ideal enmronment or health and am y.

Special Bulletin on Request
Address Director of Summer Session

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
State College, Pa. .

   
 

pools, 3 bath houses, 10 baseball diamonds, 57
tennis courts, the lighting of a number of areas
and the development of 10 unimproved play-
ground sites. One of the largest projects will be
the Olympic Swimming Stadium in Exposition
Park, site of the aquatic events of the Olympic
Games. The Olympic plunge will be a mammoth
heated pool. Other projects will include improve-
ments at three beaches and landscaping and new
recreational features at 26 partially completed
playgrounds.

Acquiring Parks and Playgrounds
(Continued from page 8)

development of property in the zone next re-
moved from the park. The enforced develop-
ment of the whole prOperty as an assembled
parcel would be productive of a higher net return
upon the investment in the district than would
the piecemeal, speculating development of the
separate parcels if left to the initiative of in—
dividual owners.

Conclusion

\Vhen it becomes necessary in the replanning
of our cities to create park and playground
spaces, the interest of the public would be best
served by the taking of a border strip of land
in addition to the tract required for park pur-
poses and by the provision that such marginal
area be thereafter used for housing purposes.
Such a taking can be justified either under the
ordinary power of eminent domain or under the
power of marginal condemnation where such
right has been established. tI is therefor a pub-
lic improvement, for which public funds may
properly be expended. The expenditure of such _
funds in the consummation of a comprehensive
plan of development, insures the use of the land
for residential purposes, which is the best use
to which it could be put. Such use also tends
to stabilize the character and value of property,
thereby insuring the safety of the city’s invest-
ment in the park by providing a higher revenue
from taxes in the district which it serves.

The logic of this reasoning is fairly clear even
to the layman. Most of the conclusions can be
established by expert testimony. The human
element, however, projects itself so forcefully
into municipal affairs that the only effective
demonstration that can be made of the sound-
ness of this theory, must come as the natural
result of the consummation of a project of this
character under normal conditions. After one
such demonstration there should be little room
for argument as to the economic merit of this
procedure.

 

“The being and fate of our people depend less
upon external factors than that we remain true
to our moral traditions which have carried us
through the centuries in spite of the heavy storms
which broke in upon us.”——Albert Einstein.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

THE WESTCHESTER WORKSHOP 49

The Westchester Workshop
(Continued from page 11)

organized Westchester Arts and Crafts Guild is
encouraging interest in the arts and crafts as
recreational, inspirational and educational activ—
ities. The Guild holds monthly exhibits in the
Workshop gallery and conducts a series of lec-
tures.

The attendance at the Workshop for one month
was 1,652. There is no age limit and in one
group alone the ages range from eight years to
eighty, including one family group of three gen-
erations. Many retired business men are dis—
covering interests and hobbies, and several
mothers are experiencing the joy of painting in
company with growing sons and daughters.

Although the Workshop has an appropriation'

of funds for administration from the county, it
seeks to make many of its classes self-supporting
thereby affording unlimited scope for expansion.

A Fran-Edie Duplex Playhouse

(Continued from page 16)

two boxes. Six openings, 8 inches by 12 inches,
were cut into the sides for windows. The parts
that were sawed out were nailed together and put
on hinges for window shutters. A door 18 inches
by 40 inches opens out onto a porch which is 2
feet wide and extends the full width of the play-
house. It has a peaked roof 5% feet high at the
center made of 2 x 2’5. The covering of the roof
is canvas, 12 ounce United States Army standard,
fastened at the center and rolls upward from the
eaves on either side. The total cost including
canvas, hardware, paint, and some lumber was
only $12. If glazed windows are added to make
it suitable for winter use approximately $5.00

would be added to the cost.
Playhouses are often built but not designed.

They are usually too crude, dark and uninterest-
ing, and do not provide adequately for necessary
health and educational benelits. The Fran-Edie
type of playhouse is a practical and economical
solution for the problem of better playhouses for
children, and it meets a real need in the well
planned back yard, the recreation center of the
home.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

_‘ ‘ .

Brigh

A 1
 _— _ I

--.--.‘, ..._....., 

SUNSHINE
Clean
FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children at play is the aim

of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dustl It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347 cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

 

Make this a dustless outdoor

season on your playgrounds.
Send today for full information

and booklet No. 1159.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufac-

 tured by The Solvay Process Company
61 Broadway New York

% 

ALCIUM
CHLORIDE

FLAKE—77%—80% ’

 

   

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

50

 

RECREATION FOR THE PRE SCHOOL CHILD

Play and Play Material

TWO Water (Continued from page 19)

Pageants
3. A child learns through his play experiences.

He will learn best if his play material chal-
lenges his developing interests. Unadjust-
able slides do not continue to challenge atten-
tion. After they have given a child all they
can, he tries to invent new uses. He slides
down backwards, on his stomach, comes up
the steps backwards, etc. In recognizing
behavior problems then, it is important to
remember that they are often nothing more
than the attempts of children to create in
their environment the things that will satisfy
their play needs.

LUCY SOUTH
PROUDFOO’I‘

A Fairy Water
Play

The Giant's
Garden

50 cents

Rainbow Fountain & Harp of Appollo
DELPIIINE HARRIS Cor

A pool pageant and a Greek pastoral fete for
out-of—doors sports. 50 cents

Elementary Tap Dances
KATHARINE FERGUSON
Nine costume “taps” complete with music.

. $1.15
Slavnc Folk Dances
MARJORIE GEARY

Good for community recreation. $1.25

Recreation for the Pre-School Child
(Continued from page 21)

Camps and Their
Modern Ad-

ministration

HAZEL K. ALLEN
$1.75

(Sand for a complete list
a! recreation material)

THE -
\VOMANS PRESS

600 Lexington Avenue
New York

gym, toys such as carts, kiddie kars, balls,
and materials such as packing boxes, big
blocks and boards which give opportunity
for free use of the large muscles.

(b) Materials such as crayons and paper,
paints, scissors, clay, hammers, blocks and
sand, for sensori-motor experience.

(c) Materials with which they can rehearse
their past experience in a dramatic fashion,
such as dolls and trains, and constructive
materials such as blocks are essential.

(d) One of the most important considerations
governing the choice of equipment is that
there must be plenty of what may be called
raw material, things that can be adapted
by the children to serve a variety of pur-
poses. (Such things as blocks, boards,
packing cases, and clay, paints, tools and
lumber are examples.)

BEFORE BUILDING 0R RESURFACING YOUR

The report in minimum essentials also points
out the importance in the program for the nurs-
ery school child of spontaneous play—play activ-
ities initiated by children and carried on by them
in a social group; of storytelling; of rhythmic
activities; of social responsibilities, and of ex-
perience with growing things. Social responsi-
bilities are vital. Gradually children will be made
aware of certain tasks which must be shared for
the good of the group, and gradually, too, they
must gain the technique of getting on with their
mates with a minimum of friction.

WE SERVE THE LEADERS
WIthALL OTHER GAMES

TABLE TENNIS

all standard TABLE-TENNIS equipment and Tables in
various sizes and thicknesses. Sturdy construction to with-

stand hard usage. Folding tables with and without legs.

TABLE-TENNIS EQUIPMENT sold in sets of various
types and individual parts at amazingly low prices. Table
covers and containers for the above equipment. Back-
gammon. Giant Backgammon, Chess, Checker Boards,
Lottos, Combination Boards, Crokinole Boards and separate
equipment, etc. Also other popular games.

Orders will receive our.special_ attention no matter how
small. Can make immediate delivery.

Descriptive price-list gladly mailed upon request.

ARTCRAFT MFG. COMPANY
24 East let Street New York

Please mention Rama-non when writing advertisers

A FAMILY EXPERIMENT IN HOME PLAY

Third Annu

    

DEMONSTRATION SCHOOL

Plans have been made for a Demonstration
School utilizing progressive education methods,
with the cooperation of the Syracuse public
schools. Classes at all levels will be arranged.
The Primary School will be directed by Dr.
Ruth Andrus, Expert in Childhood Education
of the New York State Department of Educa-
tion. The Secondary School will be directed by
Burton P. Fowler, Head Master of the Tower
Hill School, Wilmington, Delaware, and Presi-
dent of the Progressive Education Association.

THE COURSES

Mental and Social Growth and Development in

. Early Childhood—Dr. Andrus ,

The Methods and Materials in Early Childhood
—Dr. Andrus

The Methods and Materials of the Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Grades—Dr. Adelaide M.
Ayer, Director of Training, State Teachers

College, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
The Principles and Practices of Modern Edu-

cation—Dr. Ayer

A Family Experiment in Home Play
(Continued from page 23)

Cuba—-corals, sponges, some scorpions and the
j elly-iish known as the “Portuguese Man—of-War”
found their way into the Richards’ museum.
When the family moved from the city to a
farm, they discovered that the neighbors were
killing every snake they saw. The parents
preached eloquently in favor of letting harmless
snakes live. The poisonous ones were killed and
skinned until an instructive display was collected.
One day the youngest son brought a live snake
with its head in a pair of pliers for identification.
He proudly let it go on the front porch and
nearly wept when his father killed it, with ex-
clamations of horror. The snake was a good
sized copperhead. After that the Richards did
not plead nearly so eloquently on the snakes’ be-
half. This little episode told by the father and
mother, both human and humorous, shows how
much of trial and error there must be in all home
play, and how necessary it is that parents not
only have a sense of humor, but a great deal of

patience and a mind open to change.
The results of the Richards’ experiments at-

al Institute of Progressive Education

Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York

JULY 6—‘AUGUST 14

The Progressive Education Association will conduct its Third Annual Institute of
Progressive Education under the auspices of Syracuse University, offering a wide
range of courses and outstanding instructors.

  

The Methods and Materials of Secondary Edu-
cation—Mr. Fowler

The Personality Adjustment of School Children
——-Mrs. Georgia Clarke Matthaei, Psycholo-
gist of the Bronxville, N. Y., Public Schools

Diagnostic Work in Reading, Spelling, and
Arithmetic—Mrs. Matthaei

Industrial Arts as a Curricular Tool, a Labora—
tory Course—to be selected

School Administration—W. W. Beatty, Supt. of
Schools, Bronxville, N. Y.

GENERAL INFORMATION

All of the above courses carry college credits.

All students of the Institute will reside in one
dormitory.

There will be a Weekly Forum of distin-
guished lecturers.

Numerous other lectures, concerts, and plays
will be given.

Syracuse University offers an exceptional
climate, out-of-door sports and trips to places
of interest.

The fees for the courses, and for room and
board are inexpensive.

For registration blank, application for room and board, copies of the Institute balle-
tin, and all information, write direct to Dr. Harry S. Ganders, Dean of the Teachers

College, Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York.

DIAMOND

Official Pitching Shoes

Carefully designed, accu-
rately balanced. Meet Na-
tional Horseshoe Pitching As-
sociation requirements. Popu-
lar with amateurs and begin-
ners as well as old-time
champs and pros.

Write for details on instal-
ling courts, holding tourna—
ments, score-keeping, etc.
We’ll gladly send informa-

tion free.

Diamond Calk Horseshoe Co.
4610 Grand Ave. Duluth, Minn.

 
   

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

51

  
    
     
     
   
    
       
     
        
   
     
     
       
       
       
           
       
   
   
   

 

52 A FAMILY EXPERIMENT IN HOME PLAY

__ GIICAGO NORMALSCHOOL
iim -0f Physical Education Mm...

Be a director of Physical Education. playground supervisor,
dancing teacher, or swimming instructor. Two-year di-
ploma and three- out B.P.E. courses for high school du-
ates. Free up ontment bureau. Faculty of trntne spe-
cialists. Comp ete equipment. Fine dormitories. Catalog.

Fall term opens September 14

Frances Musselman, Principal, 5026 Greenwood Avenue
Box 541 Chicago, Illinois

   
       
     
       
    

 

“w”;

J j.- _————_l__'

"CHICAGO" Playground Equipment
has extra strength and SAFETY

In designs, materials and workmanship, “CHICA-
GO” Playground Equipment embodies many im-
proved features that give it extra strength, longer
life and greater safety. Generally, “CHICAGO”
Equipment is heavily constructed and carefully
braced, as a protection against weather and wear.
All metal parts are rust-
proofed: bearings for swing-
ing parts are made With
special weatherproof. fibre
bushings which_ require no Equipment
ciling or attention and Will «cu poo] Equip.
outwear ordinary bearings. ment

IVrite for Catalogs:

"A" Playground

Equlament
"No. 4" ymnaslum

 

CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT CO.
1835 W. Lake Street CHICAGO, U. S. A.

Theatre Tours The Passion Play Dance Tours

Are you planning to go abroad?

Write CD1. TRAVEL BUREAU
Travel Department of

CHURCH AND DRAMA LEAGUE OF AMERICA, Inc.
289 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y.

Puppet Tour All Services Free Music Tour

 

tracted so much attention that a group of friends
and neighbors requested Mrs. Richards to take
their children for the summer and give them the
same opportunities that she had given her own

children. About a year ago Mrs. Richards
opened a “Children’s Summer School of
Science.” Here, history repeated itself. The

little ones worked with paper pulp and carpenter-

ing, while the older ones learned the principles
of surveying and made a contour map to scale
of the hillside they surveyed. They also made
simple chemical experiments, made barometers,
studied pendulums and made sun-dials oii a flat
roof. In the form of play they learned most of
the subject matter they would later cover -in high
school. More than that they learned of life
from really living.

To convince those who are interested that
home play does not require a superior amount
of ingenuity and that it does pay big dividends
in happiness, Mrs. Richards says: “All that we
have done could be done by any group if the
mothers wanted to. I cannot imagine anything
that is more fun than living with one’s children

in this way—or anything that brings a richer
reward.”

Games for a Home Play Night
(Continued from page 26)

hand will help you balance the cup, cork and
fork on the point of a pencil.

Note: This material has been selected from
a bulletin issued by the \Vaco, Texas, Recreation
Department. Many suggestions for home play
will be found in a booklet, Home Play, published
by the National Recreation Association. $.50.

Viialized Commencements
(Continued from page 34)

later life; (7) by teaching good manners and by
giving a general cultural trend to the entire life
of the student; (8) by providing extracurriculum
activities such as athletics, forensics, music, and
generous use of the library.

Leisure and the Community. Here are sugges-
tions as to how (f) may be subdivided: (1) Do
the people in this community have leisure? (2)
What do they do with it? (3) What could they do
with it? (4) Are there suihcient leisure facilities—
playgrounds, swiming pools, theaters, libraries,
parks? (5) Is the community engaged in a con-
certed effort to make facilities available? (6) Who
is working on the problem in this community?

(7 ) Who should be?

(4) Correlation. This t0pic, and surveys and
studies in connection with it, may be correlated
with such subjects as the social sciences, English,

lese mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

VITALIZED COMMENCEMENTS 53

SAVED—6,000 CHILD LIVES!

RGANIZED effort for safety

education is resulting in an
amazing decrease in child accidents
——-a saving of 6,000 child lives each
year.

The Education Division of the
National Safety- Council maintains
a consultation and publications ser-
vice to schools and all community
agencies interested in child safety.

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
' $1.00 a year

For information write to the

EDUCATION DIVISION, NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL
One Park Avenue, New York

physiology, debating, and the like. This will give
the graduates a background which can be used to
advantage in preparing the program.

(5) Graduation Week Exhibit. This could con—
sist of posters, booklets of essays prepared by
students and perhaps printed by the school’s
printing department, photographs of leisure facili-
ties of the community such as parks, playhelds,
theaters; artists’ conception of what the com-
munity might be made to look like if concerted
action were taken; books on the subject which
would be useful to parents and patrons; cartoons
made by students.

(6) The Printed Program.
says on the subject might be printed as a part of
the program; (b) the paper stock and type should
harmonize and contain‘dignlty without dullness,
simplicity being the goal; (c) the program might
contain some bits of educational interpretation ap-
propriate to the community; (d) it might state
that the school is interested in community wel—
fare and that it hopes by this commencement pro-
gram and the studies made in preparation there—
for, to make a definite contribution.

(7) The Audience. All parents and patrons
"( Continued on page 55)

(a) The best es-_

 

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
     
  

 
   

“FLEX—l-DRY” TENNIS COURTS

Patents Pending

In use by Playground departments of cities of
Springlield, Holyoke and Chicopee, Massachusetts.

THESE MODERN COURTS GIVE:

Greater resiliency

Triple the playing hours
Immediate use after rain
Frost proof (winter playing)

No upkeep expense

Surfaced with natural green slate granules and
marked with white they are beautiful, dustless and
non-glaring.

The ttzarlaz'ngs will last a full season.

Our new illustrated booklet is ready.
Have you received your copy?

FRANKLIN KANE COMPANY
31 Sanford Street Springfield, Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when'writing advertisers

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

AMThe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest—
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." AAA

AAAHeI'e you will find
news of the latest activities
of public officials through—
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

m

SOUTHEFDFN

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Article:
of Interest to the Recreation lVarker

MAGAZINES

Mind and Body, February 1931

Organization and Administration of Health Educa-
tion and Physical Education, by William A. Stecher

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, Febru-

ary 1931
ALE-tlhentic Costumes for Folk Dances, by Laura May
ill
Every Sixth Grade Pupil a Swimmer, by C. P. L.
Nichols

Clown Tumbling Stunts, by L. L. McClow

The Itilgtnlwl of Health and Physical Education, March
3
The Game of “Squash,” by Edward F. Abercrombie
Games for Parent-Teacher Associations, by W. G.
Robinson
In Answer to “Why Cramp Competition," by Grace 1}.
Daviess and Anne F. Hodgkins

l’aci/ic Municipalities, February 1931
Spare Time Rightly Used Builds Community Mo-
rale, by George \V. Braden
Future Recreation Needs of Los Angeles

Camp Life, February 1931
Camp Waterfront Planning and Safety, by Olive
McCormick
The Imagination of Youth—Asset or Liability? by
Rev. Clarence J. Harris
Training Courses for Camp Directors and Counselors

Parks and Recreation, February 1931

State Parks and Their Value as Character Builders,
by Herbert Evison

Houston Gets New Park and Helps Unemployment

Duluth Park Department Aids in Unemployment
Situation, by F. Rodney Paine

Archery Popular in Nashville

\VIisiger Sports in Southern California, by Merrill D.

V15

Winter Sports Events at Bear Mountain

Summar of Municipal Parks for Recreation

Tracks or Ice Skating

Religious Education, November 1930

Art in Living—Editorial Comment

Fine Arts and the Soul of America, by John J. Becker

The Play Instinct and the Arts, by Jane Addams

The Use of the Arts in a Citizenship Clinic, by
Philip L. Seman

Character Education Through the Drama, by Mar-
gueritte Harmon Bro

The Significance of Drama as an Instrument of Char-
acter Enrichment, by Charlotte Chorpenning

The Enrichment of Character Through Architecture.
by Andrew L. Drummond

PAMPHLETS AND BOOKLETS

.lfnnigipal Recreation in lrt‘ington. N. J., Annual Report
1 30

Proposed Park Reservations for East Bay Cities, Cali-
fornia

National Commission on the Enrichment of Adult Life.
National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, Washington, D. C.

Report of the Superintendent of
Altoona, Pa., 1930

Report of the Board of Recreation Commissioners of

Bloomfield, N. 1., 1930

Montreal Parks and Playground Association—Annual
Report for the Year 1930

Hamilton Playgrounds Association—Annual Report 1930

.r'lunnal Report of the Department of Parks, Playgrounds
and Municipal Pools for 1930, McKeesport, Pa.

Annual Playground Report of the Recreation Commission
of Norwalle, Conn., 1930.

Parks and Recreation,

Please mention Racunton when writing advertisers

AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

Mr. W. D. Champlin, who for twenty years
has served the City of Philadelphia in its recrea-
tional interests, has been appointed Chief of the
Bureau of Recreation.

Oxnard, California, has recently secured a di-
rector of recreation through.the appointment of
James N. Parsons of Los Angeles, California.

Harry L. Allen, for many years a field repre-
sentative for the National Recreation Association,
has recently accepted a position as director of
Community Service at Highland Park, Illinois.

B. G. Leighton has recently resigned his posi-
tion as superintendent of recreation for Hibbing,
Minnesota. He is succeeded by his former assis-
tant, Jesse Portius.

Vitalized Commencements
(Continued from page 53)

.are welcome, of course. In. addition, it will pay
to extend special invitations to city officials and
civic leaders such as park commissioners, libra-
rians. art patrons, and others who are in strategic
positions to assist in improving the leisure life
of the community.

(8) Many schools will wish to use other themes
than “Wise Use of Leisure.” This page is merely
suggestive of how any topic decided upon may be
utilized.

“The lack of adequate open spaces, of play-
grounds and parks, the congestion of streets, the
misery of tenement life and its repercussions upon
each new generation, are an untold charge against
our American life. Our cities do not produce
their full contribution to the sinews of American
life and national character. The moral and so-
cial issues can be solved only by a new conception
of city building.”-—-—From an address by President
H oover.

“We tend more and more to spend our leisure
on the move, like nomads; seldom in one place
for five minutes without wishing to be somewhere
else, a want which the waiting motor stands ready
to satisfy. Our homes, in which we are sup-
posed to rest, are in danger of becoming mere
points of departure.”—-—L. P. Jacks, LL.D.

"Junglegym" Trade Mark
Registered Unlted States
1924 Patent Office

Licensed under Patents of
October 23. 1923, March 25,

J unglegym —
A Great Aid to Health

Playgrounds equipped with Spald-
ing Junglegyms are not only
providing safe amusement and ben-
ei-lcial exercise for thousands of
children, but are also keeping them
in the fresh air, which is one of
the greatest considerations in de-

veloping healthy youngsters.

The Junglegym has met with the
approval of physical educators and
playground leaders and is always

the most popular spot on the play-
ground with the children.

Playground
Department

7W

 

Chicopee,
Mass.

PleaSe mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

55

 

56 BOOK REVIEWS

Book Reviews

PLANNING SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAMS. N. L._ Engel-
hardt and Fred Engelhardt. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.

$5.00.

This volume, based on two previous studies, represents
a careful treatise on an important phase of educational
administration. Principles are developed and preferred
practices are pointed out for the efficient organization,
administration and financing of school building programs.
Methods and factors in a site selection are discussed
and careful attention is given the provision of play space
and facilities. “Play is recognized as an essential activity
Of education. In fact, the health and recreational program
as now incorporated in the school curriculum demands ex-
tensive play area both within the building and outside.”
The importance of considering city playground and recre—
ation centers is discussed and various .standards for Space
requirements for playgrounds and games are presented.

MUNICIPAL, SCHOOL AND UNIVERSITY STADIA. _R_an-
dolph O. HuuS and Dorothy I. Cline. .\lunICIpal
Administration Service, 261 Broadway, New York.

$.35.

The construction of the stadium involves highly tech-
nical engineering problems which should be left to the
engineers who are doing the work. However, there are
a number of important items which a community con-
templating a stadium must consider, such as cost. type,
size. use, management and financing. This study is pre-
sented with a view to providing information on these
points for public and educational groups which may be
planning such projects. The authors have taken into con-
sideration a wide variety of community, social and recrea-
tional functions frequently overlooked in the construction
of stadia.

CEI'SORSIIIP OF THE THEATER AND MovINo PICTURES.
Selected articles compiled by Lamar T. Beman, A.M.,

$31.33. The H. “J. Wilson Company, New York.
“.4 .

This compilation of articles consists of two sections
each containing briefs, bibliography, and selected articles.
the first on the moving pictures and the second on the
theater. In addition to discussing the moral aspect of
the question, the volume attempts to throw light on some
of the problems Of the life of the theater. Diverse views
are presented as to the efTect of censorship on the legiti-
mate stage and on the cinema, especially the newly
developed talking pictures.

CHILD HEALTH. Mrs. Norma Selbert, M.A. \V. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania. $1.60.

Mrs. Selbert’s book is the outgrowth Of her work in
teaching the subject to classes in child care and adult
education. The volume is a digest of present day knowl-
edge of the child, his care. and the preservation of his
health. A chapter entitled The Youth’s Leisure Time
deals with camp life and health.

ARE YOU TRAINING_ YOUR CHILD TO BE HAPPY? Lesson
Material In Child Management. Children’s Bureau.
United States Department Of Labor. Government

Printing Office, \Vashington, -D. C. $.10.

A series of twelve lessons prepared from a manuscript
by Blanche C._ \Neill, formerly psychologist with Dr.
D. A. Thom. director of the habit clinics of Boston. who

has approved the lessons. One lesson has to do with the
right kind Of playthings.

ATHLETIC ALMANAC. Amateur Athletic Union of the
Eggted States, Spalding’s Athletic Library, No. IN.

.The championships reported from EurOpean countries
“I!” be Of special interest at this time when the United
States is looking forward to acting as host at the Olympic
Games in 1932. American records and championships
form a large section of..the booklet.

OUTDOOR BASEBALL. Spalding’s Athletic Library. No.
121R. $.25.

This booklet contains the Official Baseball Guide for
1931 of the National Section on Women's Athletics of
the American Physical Education Association. In addi-
tion to the rules there are a number Of articles on various
phases.

CIIARACTERISTIC RHYTHMS FOR CHILDREN. A. S. Barnes
and CO.. New York. $.80. Anna M. R. Schmidt is
responsible for the music, Dudley Ashton, B.S., who
reports the experiment, for the rhythm suggestions.

The book, however, is [or children by children. Each
time a group of children from the kindergarten, first,
second and third grades came to the gymnasium, Miss
Schmidt and Mr. Ashton held a round table discussion
concerning the children's varied activities throughout the
school and at home. From these informal talks grew
suggestions for rhythms. The children were always given
an opportunity to demonstrate the movement which they
felt fitted the idea. The compilers took their rhythm
as a basis for the creation of the music.

GAMES To PLAY IN THE SNow. Elma Rood. Child
Health Division, Children's Fund of Michigan, De-
troit, Michigan. $.04.

This delightfully illustrated booklet contains directions
for playing sixteen snow games. These games are
adapted from the original sources for use of children in
rural schools. Through the courtesy of the Children’s
liund of Michigan, the pamphlet is being made available
at cost prlce.

Tm: HAPPY PARTY BOOK. Ethel Owen. The Abingdon
Press, New York. $1.00.

Here are definite programs for ten parties. each of
them offering some novel feature and SUpplying informa-'
tion as well as recreation. Many illustrations carry the
Spirit Of good times which pervades the book.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

TOSEPII LEE, President

JOHN H. FINsz, First Vice-President
OHN G. \VINANT, Second Vice-Presidenl
anRT GARRETT. Third Viee-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIan. Treasurer

HowARD S. BRAUCHER. Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE Carlisle. Pa.

WILLIAH BUTTERWORTH. Moline. Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK Philadelphia. Pa.

IlENRv L. CORBETT. Portland. Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUHMER. Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley. L. I.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON. W'est Orange, N. J.
{OHM H. FINLEY. New York. N. Y.

IUGII FRAYNII. New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT. Baltimore. Md.

MRS. CIIARLSS A. GOODWIN. Hartford. Conn.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle. Wash.

WILLIAM HALE HARKNIISS. New York. N. Y.
CHARLES IIAYDEN, New York..N. Y. _

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox. Michigan CIty. Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELAcv HYDE, Plainlield. N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIan, New York. N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

MRS. CIIARLES I). LANISR. Greenwich. Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER. Charlotte. N. ,C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston. Mass.

EDWARD E Looans. New York. N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield. Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelghia. Pa.
\VALTER A. MAY. Pittsburg . Pa.
CARL E. MILLIXEN, Augusta, Me.

MISS ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla. Calif.

HAROLD H. SWIFT, Chicago. Ill. _

FREDERICK S. TITswoaTH. New York. N. Y.

MRS. JAMES \V. \VADSWORTH. JR.. \Vashington, D. C.
i. C. W'ALSH, New York. N. Y.

OHN G. \VINANT. Concord. N. H.

I Rs. \VILLIAM H. \VOODIN. JR.. Plainfield. N. J.
FREDERch M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

C. S. WESTON, Scranton. Pa.

