Children First

VEN when men are unemployed and hungry, municipal play-
grounds and recreation centers are kept up and open.

One million dollars more was expended for recreation lead-
ership in 1930, the year of business depression, than the year
previous.

After all, taxpayers are hrst of all fathers and mothers of chil—
dren and men and women who care for children.

Economy cannot well begin with the children. Children first——
always and forever. The future before the present!

And a child is fully a child only so far as he plays—that is the
kind of being he is, that is the way he grows.

Children would rather play than eat—though they will do their
share of eating later when the game is over.

In times of unemployment we need all the cheer we can get.

We recognize that it is no time to rob children of any part of their

childhood. More rather than less play is needed when morale must.

be kept up.

Of course, you cannot have the best play for children unless you
have fathers and mothers who keep smiling, who keep courageous,
who keep playing themselves, who bring back into the home the
spirit of play.

We can be proud that city governments of America, whatever
their faults may be, did not, in 1930, in time of business depression,

go back on their children.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

"In the face of danger or disaster on a sinking ship we would strike down anyone who
attempted to save himself at the expense of a child. Children come first not only on
sinking ships but in our hearts, our homes, our schools, and our churches. They are

first. The race can save itself—can lift itself higher—only as children are lifted up."

—Joy Elmer Morgan.

205

You’rh ls Such a Lovely Thing!

Courtesy Cheyenne Mountain School, C heyen rte, Wye.

You’rh

I must laugh and dance and sing, It will be quite plain to see

Youth is such a lovely thingl That they were never young like me.
Soon I shall be old and stately,- When I walk where flowers grow,

I shall promenade sedately I shall have to stOOp down low
Down a.narrow pavement street, If I want one for a prize.

And the people that I meet Now I'm just the prOper size.

Will be still and narrow, too, Let me laugh and dance and sing,
Careful what they say and do. Youth is such a lovely thingl

By A. W., from Creative Power,
copyright, 1929, by Hughes Mearns.

 

Consider the Pollywog

By Joseph Lee

President National Recreation Association

N the article entitled The

Development of Skills in

Games, by Arthur T.
Noren, which appeared in the
March issue of RECREATION,
an important contribution has
been made to the solving of a
very real problem, namely,
that of finding or inventing
games for younger boys and girls that will
both develop in them the kinds of skill
that are necessary for success in the games
of adolescence—thus admitting them into the
world of major sports—and that will at the same
time be real games to them and not mere finger
exercises. I believe the development of such
games, of which Mr. Noren gives a list, will sup—
ply an important link in education.

The idea presented in Mr. Noren’s article ap-
plies indeed to education as a whole. The most
troublesome educational problem of the present
time is how, in the brief period between the kin-
dergarten age, which ends at
six or earlier, and pre-adoles-
cence which begins at nine or
ten, to teach the child the great
variety of skills that our mod—
ern life demands of him and
at the same time to leave him
a margin on which to live a
little as he goes along. How
can he take his French lesson,
his dancing lesson, his piano
lesson, do his home lessons,
follow diligently the primary
course in tennis, golf and foot-
ball that. his father, ex—quart-
erback of Old Squedunk, de—
mands, and at the same time
find room for any of his own
free, wild, unsupervised pur-
suits?

Mr. Noren’s principle has
important bearings upon this
whole problem. I want, how-
ever, returning to its play—

Mr. Lee makes the plea that we do
not overlook, in planning our pro-
gram, the games apprOpriate for
children—games which are Hnot
too terribly in earnest," and that
we leave room for creation, song,
wonder, inquiry, and adventure.

 

Courtesy Dept. of Interior, Canada

leisurely, and walk. Dally, loiter, .
poke along.' " (Continued on page 247)

ground application, to make
one supplementary suggestion.
So far as the child can at the
same time both acquire skills
for the future and also live
meantime we have plain sail—
ing. But I believe that in
order to live fully he must
have some other games be-
sides, games that do not prepare for base—
ball or for other isports in which great
skill is needed. I mean the little running,
chasing, hiding, raiding games—games in
which the children laugh and squeal and run
and tumble over each other and are not too ter-
ribly in earnestwchildren’s games, in short, which
after all are appropriate for children. And life
is not all games; there must be creation, song,
wonder, inquiry and adventure—as, of course, Mr.
Noren has assumed. If these are slighted we shall
have committed once again the ancient crime
against childhood of which practically all educa-
-tion has been guilty—the
crime of not letting the child
live as well as learn. In such
case the essential will have
been omitted.

The truth is there are two
kinds of education—the kind
that prepares for something
and the kind that merely is
something while it lasts.
Climbing is a good example of
the latter. Climbing, except in
the social sense, «is not to a
great degree the sport or occu—
pation of grown people. But
I believe it is very necessary
for the child. I have no evi—
dence on the point (I don’t
know whether anybody has

any evidence that any sort of
education is of value), but I

"Nature says, 'Come nearer. Be have 3' hunCh that if there is -‘

something not too dangerous

207

 

It is surprising what delightful substitutes are to be found
when travel away from home is out of the question

A Stay-at- Home

By Mary ]. Breen

National Recreation Association

city, explore the countryside, hunt for adven-

ture—such is the call of summer, the urge

to get outdoors, to feel the thrill of discovery and
to learn of nature in all its loveliness.

In past summers, a great many adults of mod-

208

ET’S go camping, let’s get away from the

CAMP

erate means who wanted to- get away from city
ordinariness were given the opportunity of going
to camps established for this purpose by Depart-
ments of Recreation, Y. M. C. A.’s, Y. W'. C. A.’s,
and similar organizations. This summer many of
these camps find that they cannot carry on their

A STAY—AT-HOME CAMP 209

regular programs because of the curtailment of
their budget funds, and because of the reduced
incomes of those’ who attended during previous
seasons. Other organizations that anticipated
opening camps this year have decided to postpone
the inauguration of their projects until prospects
of their success become brighter.

This means that hundreds of men, women, and
employed boys and girls who might have gone to
camp (under favorable circumstances) will not
be able to do so this summer. And yet their need

to get outdoors, away from all routine and hurry,
is greater than ever. For their satisfaction some
activity should be found which will provide them
with the same thrill of adventure that comes with
trips to unknown places and with the unrivaled
romance of open fires. Such an activity must
eliminate any outlay of money for the mainten-
ance and upkeep of camp facilities and yet pre-
serve the essentials of a real camp program.
Adapted to just such purposes is the following
stay-at-home camp program which may be con-
ducted by any Department of Recreation or or-
ganization with available leadership:

At this stay-at-home camp there are all the par-
ties, hikes, bacon bats and Hash light units that
participants enjoy so much at regular camps.
Camp units are small so that each individual can
give full play to his fancies—for the secret of
the success of any camp is the freedom it allows
its members to do what they want and be what
they are, provided, of course, they show considera-
tion for others. If possible, groups should not be
larger than sixteen nor smaller than eight.

Each unit has its own treasury and its own
leader, who may be a member of a central plan-
ning council organized for an interchange of ideas
and suggestions. Pre-season leadership training
courses in the form of
hikes and parties will in-
crease the size and effici-
ency of this central council.
The assistance of volun-
teers should be enlisted
wherever possible so that
a large number of units
can be established. If ac-
tivities are kept interesting
and the program constantly
motivated, there is little

danger that these leaders
will shirk responsibility.

GYPSYING

I wish we might go gypsying one day
before we're old

To step it with the wild west wind
And sing the while we go,
Through far Forgotten orchards,
Hung with jewels red and gold;

Through cool and fragrant forests where
never sun may show,

To stand upon a high hill and watch the
mist unfold-

I wish we might go gypsying one day
before we’re old.

Novel Hikes and Trips

On each week-end some novel hike or trip to
the outdoors is planned. If the group is composed
entirely of boys or entirely of girls, at least one or
two of them are “mixed” hikes. During the week
special parties are arranged—perhaps an old fash-
ioned fruit party or a Japanese lantern social in
one of the neighboring parks. Once or twice dur-
ing the summer each camp unit acts as host to one
of the other camp units. This occasion may be a
night of stunts, since no camp season is complete
without at least one of these proverbial camp en-
tertainments. The following suggestions are
offered for novel hikes and trips:

Gypsy Patter-Run. An age old Gypsy tradi-
tion demands that any band that finds a good trail
must leave at each fork of the road a pile of

- stones designating which turn leads to better for—

tune. In true Gypsy style, everyone should come
to this hike garbed in many colors with scarfs
and bandanas of red and blue and yellow, should
wear jangling earrings, anklets, and bracelets and
carry tambourines, if they like. On such a trip
units travel separately but join at the end of the
trail. One band starts off a half hour before the
others and piles the stones which show the road
that leads to the “pot of gol ”—a supper of sand-
wiches and cocoa, specially arranged Gypsy
dances, and a song fest in which all join as the
sun goes down and the Gypsies prepare for the
trek homeward.

Fire Fly Hunt. This unusual hunt, staged in
pairs, is most appropriate for over-night hikes
or for parties in a park or reservation. The terri-
tories should be fairly well known and clearly
designated so that none of the participants get
lost in the dark. Each person taking part carries
a flash light. The two leaders carry lights with
colored bulbs so that these lights can be distin—
guished readily. The two
leaders start off together
several minutes before the
rest of the group. When
out of range, they flash a
light as a signal to the
others. The hunters start
after them, following the
colored lights which are
flashed on and off at reg-
ular intervals. Tracks may
be retraced as often as the
leaders choose. The couple
that succeeds in catching

a.)
$._

—Selected

210 A STAY-AT—HOME CAMP

H. Armstrong Roberts

the “lire flies” is rewarded with a box of marsh-
mallows which, needless to say, will be toasted
over the fire before the evening program is
brought to a close.

Nature Treasure Hunt. This treasure hunt is
an old idea but is never failing in popularity and
adds interest to even the most ordinary hike. The
group is divided into couples. At the leader’s
direction, couples go out and bring back the treas-
ure which the leader names. For example, the
leader says, “Go out and get me a three pointed
leaf.” The first couple to return with the proper
treasure is given a small stone.

As soon as the treasure has been found, the
leader blows a whistle which is a signal for all
players to return. When all have returned, part—
ners are exchanged and the leader gives the sec-
ond charge. There is no end to the list of things
for which an ingenious leader can send a crowd.
The person possessing the largest number of
stones at the end of the hike is given some suit-
able reward.

Progressive Supper Hike. This is a three stop
hike with “eats” and recreation at each stop.
For example, all of the crowd are directed to meet
at a designated place at a certain time, and hike to

 

-J.

Occasionnlly there are nearby strum: for fishing.
If not, just hiking is fun enough for most of us!

Stop 1——where circle and mixing games are
played and fruit is served—then to

Stop 2—where races and tag games are provided
and steak or “hot dogs” are served; and
proceed to

Stop 3—where there is a big camp fire and cocoa
or coffee, doughnuts, cake and marsh-
mallows. The entertainment closes with
stunts and a storytelling hour.

Moonlight H ike. There is nothing more thrill-
ing than a hike when the moon is full. It is essen—
tial, of course, that the crowd be kept together
throughout the night and that a night be chosen
so that the people will have an opportunity to rest
next day. _

A song and story hour during which woodland
sprites, or ghosts and skeletons appear from be-
hind boulders or trees to entertain the group, will
make the affair a memorable one. Sprites may
dance to the music of a flute, because it is airy and
ethereal, and in the moonlight seems to cast a spell
of magic all about. The skeletons, garbed in black
suits on which bones and skull are outlined in
phosphorous paint, will supply much merriment.

Sunrise Hike. The crowd assembles at four
a. m. Bugle calls may be used at the point of

A STA Y-A T-HOME CAMP 21 1

assembly. A camp fire breakfast, games, and hik-
ing songs are apprOpriate for the destination point.

Surprise Stunt Hike. On this hike units again
travel separately but join at the end. Before start-
ing, each unit plans a stunt which will be pre-
sented along the route as a surprise to the other
units.

At selected points groups are stationed, hidden
from the advancing hikers. The performers greet
the hikers with some appropriate ceremonial sign,
present their
stunt, fall in
when it is fin-
ished, and march
o n wit h t h e
crowd. A few
possible episodes
and stunts fol-
low: .

Gypsy Fortune

Tellers. Such

a hike would

sq'arcely be

complete with-
out Gypsy for-
tune tellers
who tell the
past and fu—
ture and pre-
dict happen-
ings enroute.
Cowboy H oldup.

D r e s s e d as
wild western-
ers and cow
punchers, the
p e r f o rm 6 r s
appear unex-
pectedly and
hold up the
group. The prisoners are escorted to the rodeo
grounds where frontier songs from Carl Sand-
burg’s “American Song Bag” and feats of rope
spinning and lassoing entertain the group. When
bona tide Iariat performers are not available,
the whole program can be burlesqued with great
effectiveness.

H. Armstrong Robert:

Two Black Crows. Since hikers are always nature
lovers, two couriers from bird land are dis-
patched With messages of greeting. What could
be more appropriate than jokes made famous by

the Two Black Crows?
Indians. An Indian brave appears from behind

a tree, salutes the hikers with the Indian sign of
greeting, and escorts them to the council ring
which has been set up in a nearby clearing. Here
they are treated to Indian contests, dances and
stories.

W andering Minstrels. “—for music hath charms”
-———A band of wandering musicians can do much
to enliven the group and can provide the_music
for songs around the fire and on the stretch
homeward.

Where Nature does not offer swimming places, man is usually able to provide
a substitute. With pools available, stay—at—homes may have swimming parties.

 

Fruit Party. When treasury funds are low and
the group wants to take only a short walk there
is nothing more appropriate than an old-fashioned
fruit party. Each person is, made responsible for
bringing some fruit-———one brings a half dozen of
bananas, another six apples, another two pounds
of grapes; several are made reSponsible for sup-
plying a fruit drink. The group meets and walks
for a short distance to a grove which is gaily
lighted with colorful Japanese lanterns. Here
games are played and refreshments served.

This same idea may be used for a Pound Party,
either indoors or outdoors. Each guest brings a

212 A STAY-AT-HOME CAMP

pound of some eatable—-a pound of cookies, a
pound of grapes, a pound of candy. The hostess
usually provides the sandwiches. It is obvious
that such a party can be conducted with little cost
to anyone.

Twilight Swim. A twilight swim on a hot sum-
mer evening does much to revive wilted bodies
and wilted spirits. If the swimming pool, lake or
beach is near at hand, such parties should be

 

Cooking is anything but work when it's
done out-of-doors over a wood fire!

scheduled frequently during the summer, espe-
cially for employed girls and boys whose only
opportunity to swim is during the hours when
pools and beaches are crowded to capacity.

‘ Swimming in a lake or in the ocean is. of
cc‘iursehmore thrilling than swimming in a pool.
but where natural bathing places are
not available-“pools are good substi-
tutes. In planning a twilight swim
it is impértant that the leader be
thoroughly acquainted with the
swimming area and that adequate
preCautions be taken to prevent acci-
dents. The swim should close with
songs and informal chatter around
a driftwood fire on the beach or
“doggie” roast on the lake shores.

The Barbecue

The barbecue is “the thing” with
which to end up a stay-at-home-
camp season. It should be arranged for the en-
tire group of campers or for several units. Every-
thing is planned carefully in advance and so
worked out that each member has an opportunity
to do his share of the work and help the affair
go off smoothly.

Find a good place to hold the barbecue—an
easily accessible place with lots of good wood or

means to get wood, good drinking water, and
plenty of room so it will not be crowded. An
open place near a pine grove and a lake is ideal.
Look around for boulders of a size that are easily
handled. Be sure that they are dry and that there
are plenty of them.

The day before the barbecue, or the week-end
before, take part of the group, eight or ten, to the
grounds and make things ready. You will need
three fireplaces at least, a big one for
the lamb, a smaller one for the baked
potatoes and another for the apple
sauce and coffee. Corn can be roasted
in the big fireplace or baked in an-
other fireplace similar to the one used
for the potatoes. For a group of
fifty dig the potato fireplace three
feet long, two feet wide and a foot
deep. Line it with stones the size of
your fist. Make the fireplace for the
roast somewhat larger, five feet long,
four feet wide and two feet deep, and
line it with larger field stones (from
an old wall, perhaps). Eighteen
inches from each end set two heavy
crotched sticks about five feet long so that they
extend about two feet above the ground. Round
out the crotches a bit to form a bearing for the
cross piece. Use a sapling about eight feet long
and three inches in diameter for the cross piece.
Fit it with a crank so it can be turned. Lay a

And food roasted over a fire-place of
rocks has a most delicious flavor!

 

simple circle of stones about three feet in diameter
for the apple sauce fireplace and erect a crane over
it made of three saplings about seven feet long.
Pile hard wood cut into two foot lengths near
each fireplace. (Nearly half a cord will be needed
for a group of fifty.) A shelter of some sort, a
tent fly or tarpaulin, will be handy in case of rain.
The group that has made the preparations can stay

A STA Y -A T-H OM E CA M P 213

overnight and make a camping trip of the event.

About noon time of the barbecue day build a
large fire in the roasting fireplace. Feed it regu—
larly for two or three hours until there are plenty
of hot coals and all the rocks are nearly red hot.
About three o’clock rake the lire to the sides of
the fireplace so that there is little fire in the middle
and hot tires on each side to reflect heat up against
the lamb. Roast the lamb whole. Put the cross
bar through its middle and nail it solid through
the back bone. Wire the legs to the “pole so it
can’t possibly slip off. It can be stuffed with
ordinary bread and spice stuffing and sewed up,
or it can be roasted empty.

Lay the pole with the lamb on it across the
two crotched sticks. Be sure that there is no lire
under it but that the two tires on each side of
the fireplace are hot and steady. Keep the lire
very hot for the first half hour and from then on
keep it good and warm but not hot enough to burn
the lamb. Detail two or three people to turn the
roast and to baste it occasionally with melted but-
ter or basting sauce in which there is no salt. In
about three hours it should be done.

Half an hour before the lamb is put on the lire
build a second lire in the' potato fireplace and keep
it blazing for two hours. At about live o’clock
rake out half the coals, spread leaves or damp
grass in a thin layer over the coals left in the lire—
place, put the potatoes in, being careful to have
only one layer of them, cover them with some
more leaves or grass, rake the extra coals over the
.potatoes and cover with the dirt that was taken
out when the hole was dug. Build a lire on top
and let it burn out. In about an hour and a half
the potatoes will be done.

After the potatoes are buried start a small pyra-
mid lire in the apple sauce fireplace. Peel and
quarter the apples, add a little water and put
them over the lire to stew. In half an hour add
five pounds of sugar, stew for five minutes, and
set aside to cool. Coffee or cocoa is made over
the same fire.

Corn can be roasted in the husks for about
three—quarters of an hour in the same way as the
potatoes. Or it can be cooked on the end of a
stick, each member roasting his own ear of corn
over the big fireplace. If the group is very large
it will be easier to boil or roast the corn for every—
one. In smaller groups it is more fun to do
your own.

About six thirty everything will be ready. Dig
up the potatoes and corn‘ and take the roast off

the fire. A serving committee can pass-on
food or it can be served in cafeteria style with
each member helping himself. Plenty of rolls and
butter and jam will help make the event a big
success.

For a group of fifty you will need a whole lamb
weighing about thirty-live pounds, three pecks of
potatoes, three pecks of apples, nine dozen ears of
corn, ten pounds of sugar, ten pounds of butter,
five pou°nds of jam, a pound of coffee, two quarts
of cream, ten dozen rolls, a pound of salt and
a quarter of a pound of pepper. Paper dishes are
the best. Each member can supply his own knives,
forks, spoons, and cups. Paper cups are seldom
satisfactory for hot liquids.

In the evening have a story about the lire or
get groups of embryo actors to show their talents
and entertain with stunts. Before leaving make
sure that the fires are all out and that there is no
possibility of their starting up again.

Other Activities

At all camps there are athletic tournaments and
contests. An ambitious leader can make his pro—
gram even more attractive by arranging inter-
unit competition in tennis, swimming, baseball
and other athletic events if such activities are not
already organized in the community.

Where good- hiking routes are not a'cceSsible,
a community’s resources should be utilized to their
fullest advantage. A city in Illinois which tried
out a plan last summer similar to the Stay—at-
Home Camp idea staged weekly programs on the
college campus. Several fires were lighted on
each of these occasions. To each lire was assigned
a leader or group of leaders who were responsible
for conducting the activities in their respective
groups. The program consisted of games, danc-
ing, stories, and community singing. A marsh-
mallow and “doggie” roast climaxed the season
which, according to all reports, was a most suc-
cessful one.

Leaders who are interested in conducting a
stay-at-home camp program will find these sug-
gested books very helpful:

“Camping and Woodcraft” by Kephart

“The Rhythm of the Red Man” by Julia Buttree

“Stories Iroquois Tell Their Children” by
Powers

“Two Little Savages” by Ernest Thompson
Seton

“American Song Bag” by Carl Sandburg

(Continued on page 247)

Here Comes the Circus!

A Practical Plan
for a Playground
Performance

By

John C. Henderson
and Ralph Borrelli

Playground and Rec-
reation Department,
Los Angeles

 

Courtesy Memphis Park Commission

HILE the circus idea is by no means
new to the playground program, the

traveling circus has many unique features
and is growing in popularity. It consists of a
large circus wagon of the traditional type con-
taining all the necessary equipment for putting on
a circus. This wagon is sent from ground to
ground, two days being allowed between perform—
ances. The wagon arrives at a ground either on
the afternoon before the performance or early in
the morning of the day 011 which the circus is
scheduled. Most of the acts, of course, have been
in the process of rehearsal under the leadership
of the director of the playground. With the
circus, however, comes a traveling director who
assists in putting on the final touches.

Performances are given in the afternoon or
evening or at both times. .Evening performances
are the more popular as adults are able to attend
them. The wagon carries auxiliary lighting equip—
ment which can be cut in on the playground cir-
cuit. Another popular feature is the pres-
ence of a skilled ringmaster in full regalia,
whose efforts contribute greatly to the success of
the Show.

214

The travelling circus wagon—once
a curiosity, now accepted equipment.

The Circus Equipment

The Wagon. The circus wagon in Los Angeles,
California, was made from an ordinary farm
wagon on which was constructed a wooden frame
17 feet long, 8 feet wide and 5 feet high. This
frame was covered with a light gauge sheet metal
and the wagon was then painted red, blue and yel-
low, and ornamented with scroll work, animals
and circus scenes. The inside of the wagon
was partitioned off into two sections. The
front takes up about one—third of the wagon '
space and access is had into it by a door in the
side of the wagon.

In the wagon may be carried a tent, stakes, cir-
cus ring, small platform, bucking broncho ap—
paratus, horizontal bar, tight rope stands, the
clowns’ paraphernalia, lighting equipment, pedes—
tals, tumbling mat, stage coach, rope and stakes
for spectators, costumes, cosmetics, and the animal
frames. The costumes, lighting equipment and
cosmetics are stored in the front portion of the
wagon. The rear contains all such equipment as
the tent, stakes, animals and ropes. Tent poles,
long stakes, bucking broncho apparatus and hori—
zontal bar may be carried on top of the wagon.

HERE COMES THE CIRCUS! ' 215

The Tent. The circus tent is a hip roof tent
of vertically striped orange and green canvas.
The dimensions are 15 by 30 feet, with a 9 foot 6
inch wall, and a 14 foot center. It has side and
back walls, the front being open. The wall is
snapped to the top every 30 inches. Two center
poles 14 feet long are used. At the rear of each
side a 4 by 7 foot door Opening is left, and a piece
of canvas 6 feet high and 14 feet long is stretched
from the front edge of this door on the outside so
that participants may enter the tent without being
seen by the spectators.

Stakes. Tent stakes are made from 1 inch pipe
cut to 18 inch length. The anchor stakes for the
horizontal bar are made of % inch solid red 3 feet
long. Stakes to which ropes are tied for holding
back spectators are made from 1 inch pipe cut 4
feet long. The total requirements for the stakes
are as follows:

20—1” by 18” for tent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Pipe)
12—1” by 4’ for barrier stakes . . . . . . . . . . (Pipe)
6—3” by 3’ for horizontal bar . . . . . . . . . (Solid)

2—%” by 2%! for Rocking Broncho. . . (Solid)

Panels and Panel Holders. Twenty panels and
21 panel holders are fitted together to form the
circus ring. See diagram.

Small Platform. A platform is essential for
tap dancing and other special features and for ex—
hibiting the freaks.

Backing Broncho. This is a very popular num-
ber. See diagram for details of apparatus. In
practice a boy mounts the “horse” and the chain
is violently shaken until the rider is dislodged.

Can anything be more intriguing
than a side show? Try to pass one!

 

Courtesy Memphis Park Cmmission

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Commission Alton, Ill.

Strange, awe-inspiring animals make
their appearances in the parades.

Horizontal Bar. A playground circus would
not be complete without horizontal bar acts. Since
the bar is portable, great care must be taken to
see that it is lirme anchored. Two chain or cable
guys are used on one side of the bar provided by
the Los Angeles circus, and a block and tackle are
used on the other. '

Tight Rope Apparatus. A burlesque tight rope
performance is always popular. Two frames are
included in the Los Angeles circus equipment.

Lighting Equipment. Four 500 watt Hood
lights form the main lighting equipment. In addiv
tion, a string of lights is placed inside the tent
and other lights in back of the tent as may be
needed for the performance.

Pedestals. Brightly painted pedestals are nec—
essary for animal acts, some of the clown acts,
occasionally for the announcer, and for other
purposes. -

Tumbling Mats. Tumbling and pyramid work
is another indispensable feature of the circus. Be- '
cause mats used outdoors receive very hard wear,
it is best to use old ones or to provide protecting
covers.

Rope. To control the Spectators a quantity of
one-half or three-quarter inch rOpe is a necessity.
Stakes should be provided to which to fasten the
rope.

Stage Coach. The stage coach is rather elab-
orate and could be dispensed with. It is, how-
ever, very important for a Wild West Show.

216 HERE COMES THE CIRCUS!

The Animals

The number and
variety of the ani—
mals is limited only
by the ingenuity of
the circus manage-
ment and the amount
of money available.
Horses, an elephant,
a bull, Spark Plug
and a “Rudy” os-
trich are popular in

Los Angeles. They
are fairly simple to construct and an interesting

performance can be built around them. The
frames are l by 1’s and Number 10 wire. This
frame is then covered with light weight poultry
wire which in turn is covered with stout wrapping
paper. The final covering is of burlap. Padding
of excelsior or cotton batting or rags is placed
between the paper layer and the burlap layer to
give shape to the animal. The finished animal is
painted with calcimine colors. In How to Put on
an Amateur Circus by Hacker and Eames, direc-
tions are given for the construction of a number

of animals.

Costumes

Two complete sets of costumes are provided for
the circus, one set being in use while the other is
being laundered and. repaired. In most instances
it will be desirable to have the costumes laundered
after each performance to avoid any possible in-
fection. The costumes are carried on portable
hanger frames which can be lifted out as a unit
from the wagon and placed in the dressing rooms.
Following is a list of the costumes:

12—Clown suits, sizes 6- 8 years

10— “ “ “ 10-14 “

10— “ “ “ 14-18 “

8— “ “ " 18 and over

10—Ballet costumes, sizes 10-16 years
- 12—Indian “ “ 10-14 “

IO—Cowboy suits, hats, etc., sizes 10-14 years
15—Animal suits, sizes 8—12 years
10—Spanish costumes, sizes 12—16 years
18—Band coats

6—Roustabout coats, sizes 16 and over
15—Animal masks, lions, etc.
15—Animal heads

2—Wigs and beards

1-——Ringmaster

l—Bull fighter, size 16 years

.9

 

Some details of the construction of the “bucking broncho," a feature of the

Los Angeles circus.

l—Barney Google, size 12 years
l—Rube, size 16 years

Freaks
Snake charmer, size 14 years
Fat lady “ 14 “
Bearded lady “ l4 “
Homely man “ 14 “
Homely woman “ l4 “
Strong man “ 16 “
Fortune teller “ 14 “
Siamese twins “ 10 “
\Vildman ” 10 "

 

4-m- -15' 0;...»

He may look innocent
but don't trust him!

Cosmetics
The following list of cosmetics is carried. The

circus director assists in the make-up. particu-

larly of clowns. The playground directors may
secure a few volunteers to help.

Clown white

Red and black liners for clowns

Burnt cork for wildman

Cold cream

Face powder

Crepe wool hair for moustaches

Cheese cloth for wiping faces

General Procedure for Program

In addition to the circus director who devotes
full time and to the ringmaster who works only
during the performances themselves, it is desir-

HERE COMES THE CIRCUS! 217

able to have a workman attached to' the circus to
take general charge of setting up and taking down
equipment. It is usually easy to secure volunteers
from the playground patrons to assist with this
work. In fact, it is a part of the circus fun to
be allowed to help in this way. The layout should
be set up as close as possible to the held house
so that the building facilities are available for
dressing rooms and so that the layout is close to a
possible electrical connection.

The importance of the ringmaster has already
been mentioned. A small band is also very de-
sirable; even five pieces will make quite a showing
if appr0priately costumed, but ten or Fifteen are,
of course, much better. The ringmaster appears
with highly polished boots, a bright red coat, white
riding trousers, tall silk hat and a long whip. He
should by all means wear a big black drooping
moustache. The band can be inexpensively cos-
tumed by using white waiters’ jackets dyed in
bright colors. A bright blue jacket ornamented
with orange braid is very effective. Similar coats
dyed in another color are given to the “rousta-
bouts” who assist with the set-up and take-down
and who move apparatus during the circus itself.
These coats also add to the color of the
occasion.

The Program

A standard program is followed as
closely as possible. This requires a
minimum amount of equipment and
special work. It also enables the band
to work out a musical setting for the
entire season of shows. The following
program has been used successfully on
many types of grounds. It needs little
preparation and also makes use of a
large number of participants. The sug-
gested program follows:

I.
Grand Entry
II.
Tight Rope Walkers
III.
Trained Horses
IV.
Any special number worked upon play-
ground, such as dances
V.
Spark Plug, Barney Google
VI.
A bicycle stunt — Diabolo —— Yo—Yo—
Juggling, Posing, etc. Music

  

CIRCUS BHNN

VII.
Trained Animals
VIII.
Tumbling and Pyramids
IX.
Elephant Act
X.
Gypsy Dance or Spanish Dance, followed by
bull-fight
XI.
Platform Stunt—Tap Dancers, Magician, etc.
XII.
Horizontal Bar Acts
XIII.
Freaks
XIV.
Wild West Show
lndians—Cowboys—Camplire Stunts
Bucking Broncho

Grand Entry. A short band concert starts the
performance, following which a fanfare from the
band heralds the entrance of the ringmaster. He
“spiels” to the audience about “the greatest show
on earth,” and then announces the grand entry

Countless details enter into the organization of a circus.
The plan of the circus layout is an important matter.

CLUB HOUSE

1:]
.3.“
3.‘
-\
n C:
5 (‘1’
4’ a
go
2..
I:
BLEACHERS

_
Fbod LI ghTs'

%¢/

PLAN OF CIRCUS LAYOUT

218 HERE COMES THE CIRCUS!

and parade of all participants. All the partici-
pants, with the exception of the freaks, have been
lined up in a column of twos behind the tent.
They enter from one side of the tent, march
around the edge of the ring area, and make their
exit on the Opposite side Opposite to the entrance.

Tight Rope Walkers. Two frames for the
tight rope act are provided, and a group of two
to four 8 to 12 year old boys in tights or ballet
costumes work on each frame. They burlesque
the stunts of tight r0pe performers. The stunts
can be practised on the wooden rims of the ap-
paratus pits previous to the arrival of the frames
themselves.

Trained Horses. Six boys from 8 to 12 years
take part in this act. The “horses” fit around the
waists of the riders. The horses enter single file
with much prancing and snapping of the ring-
master’s whip. They circle once inside the ring
at a trot, and then circle a second time with the
horses turned sideways to stimulate side-stepping.
They then line up in the opening of the ring, fac-
ing the audience, and take four steps forward,
then lower horses’ heads to simulate bowing.
They then back-step to the rear edge of the ring,
after which the ringmaster announces several spe-
cialties.

First comes the fox-trotting horse, which simu-
lates a fox-trot around the ring and thence to po-
sition. It is followed by the waltzing horse.
Third comes the jumping horse. In this stunt,
after an appropriate announcement, the ringmas-
ter lies on his back in the center of the ring and
the horse runs and jumps over him.

The last specialty is the one and only Hula,
Hula horse. At the conclusion of its stunt it
exits, followed by the other horses. The band,
of course, plays appr0priate music for each stunt.

Barney Google and Spark Plug. The ringmas-
ter announces Barney Google and his famous
horse Spark Plug, who
enter and bow to the
audience. Barney puts
Spark Plug through such
stunts of playing dead
and of telling age by
hoof beats. At this
point, the ringmaster an-
nounces that Rudy, the
ostrich, has also arrived
and that there will be a
race between Spark Plug
and Rudy, with the ring-

Harkl Harkl The dogs do barkl
The circus is coming to townl

A big Paradel And pink lemonadel

And many a motley clown.

Loo|<| Loold The wonderful Goolcl
Giraffes and elephants wild,
Cow boys who prance, ponies that dance

All for a little child.
Buml B-rr-uml (That's the drum)

You don't need a single cent.

Oh hurry, let's gol The Playground Show

Beats anything seen in a tentl

master as starter. At the signal, Rudy runs to
the exit. Spark Plug, of course, runs backwards
and is finally shooed off the stage by the dis-
gusted Mr. Google. “Sunshine” can be used to
advantage in this stunt.

Special N umber. At this point, some local spe-
cialty, such as trick bicycle rider, Diabolo or
Yo-Yo Player, or juggler, is introduced.

Trained Animals. This number is one of the
most popular, and is capable of almost endless
variation. From six to twelve boys, 7 to 9 years
old, are used. The boys wear various animal
masks and appropriate flannel suits. The world’s
greatest animal trainer is announced. He makes
his entrance and bows, returns and with much
whip-cracking brings in the animals who are, of
course, on all fours. He puts the animals through
various individual stunts, such as forward and
back rolls, hand-springs, etc. At the end of the
act he drives each animal to its place on one of
the pedestals, bows and exits with the animals.

Tnmbh’ng and Pyramids. This number should,
of course, be worked up at the ground ahead of
time. A large number of boys of various ages
can be used and look particularly well in clown or
Yama Yama costumes.

Trained Eiephant. Two 14 year old boys com-
pose the elephant. A little girl from 7 to 9, in
ballet costume, can be the trainer. The elephant
can be made to kneel, raise its feet when touched
by the whip, stand on a pedestal, walk over the
prostrate body of the ringmaster, kneel down over
the prostrate ringmaster, etc.

Bull Fight Nrm-zber. After this number is an-
nounced, a group of girls dressed as Spanish dan-
cers enter and present a dance. At the conclusion
they draw back to the edge of the tent and form
a colorful background for the bull fight which
follows.

First: The ringmaster announces the world’s
greatest toreador, who
enters with long, pom-
pous strides, takes off his
hat with a flourish, and
bows vigorously to the
audience and to the dan-
cers. The bull is then
announced and rushes in
angrily. It paws the
ground, makes several
rushes which the torea-
dor evades. Finally the
toreador rushes in, seizes

HERE COMES THE CIRCUS! 219

the bull by the
tail, twists it
and the bull
falls to the
ground, ex-
pires violent-
l y, and the
t o r e a d o r
poses with
one foot on
the body of
the bull. He
takes off his
hat bows
again, and
then exits,
followed by
the dancers.
The ' boys in
the bull roll
out and carry the car-
cass away.

A variation is to lead
in a very dejected look-
ing bull who refuses to
light even when pro-
voked in various ways.
Finally a large bucket painted red, with the word
“Chili” in white letters on the side, is brought in
and given to the bull. From this he receives
sufficient vigor to attack violently.

Platform Stunt. Many stunts can be worked
from the platform. Tap dancers, magicians, jug-
glers and posing numbers are particularly good.
The posing is capable of great variation. A sim-
ple number is to have two boys in white track
suits portray a series of wrestling holds in slow
motion fashion. Poses from other athletic activi-
ties can be worked up similarly.

Horizontal Bar N umber. Every playground
has several boys who are quite proficient on the
horizontal bar. Reasonably skillful performers
should be used for this number, which is always
popular.

Introducing Side Show Freaks. The skill which
the ringmaster uses in ballyhooing the history and
peculiarities of the side show attractions is the big
factor in making this a very amusing number.
The freaks are lined up in the rear of the plat-
form. The ringmaster calls up each one in turn,
spiels about him, and the freak does a little stunt
and makes his exit. Children who are backward
about volunteering for some of the other numbers

confusion.

 

Courtesy Department of Recreation, Detroit, Mich.

There will always be plenty of performers in the
playground circusl But there must also be hurry
and bustle, hoarse calls to animals, growling and
roaring outside, and a band to add to the noise and

are often
eager to take
part as a
freak. Some
of the follow-
ing are appro-
priate: home-
li e s t m an ;
h o m e l i -
est woman ;
bearded lady

(paper-macho
false faces
can be used
for these
characters) ;
snake charm-
er; fat lady
( t h e m o r e
stuffing the
better); wild man
(does a lot of grunting
and looks very vicious) ;
strong man (lifts fake
weights, bends a heavy
iron bar made out of
garden hose with stiff
wire inside, etc.) ; Siamese twins (two overall
suits sewed together so that one leg of each boy
can be inserted together in the enlarged central
leg).

Fortune Teller or Mind Reader. A 14-16 year
old girl appears in appropriate costume. Several
fake mind reading stunts can be used in connec-
tion with this number. The girl is blind-folded.
The ringmaster holds a bell in his hand, rings it
and asks what he is holding. She of course an-
swers, “bell.” A similar stunt can be worked with
a whistle.

' Wild West Show. No circus, of course, is com-
plete without the wild west after-show. After it
is announced by the ringmaster, about a dozen
boys, 8 to 12 years old, dressed as Indians, enter
with heads bent low and arms folded. They
slowly form a ring inside the arena and dance
around twice in war-dance fashion, dance into cen—
ter and out again, form in twos, back up to the
edge of the ring and sit down Indian fashion.
Competitive stunts such as Indian wrestling, roos-
ter fight, wand wrestling, etc., are featured. Final-
ly the stage coach enters slowly, is spied by the
Indian chief, who summons the Braves to attack
it. As they circle the stage coach eight or twelve

220 HERE COMES THE CIRCUS!

boys dressed as cowboys enter, drive off the In-
dians and escort the stage coach to the center of
the arena. A campfire gathering takes place, giv-
ing a chance for harmonica numbers, rope-spin-
ning, or whatever else in this line is available.

Broncho Busting Contest. The cowboys and
Indians, of course, enter in this contest, as well as
possibly a few from the audience. The show then
closes with a lively march number from the band.

Methods of Handling Performance

A few general hints on handling the perform-
ance may be valuable. A space near one of the
entrances to the arena area, from which the per-
formance may be seen, should be roped of? for
the participants. At the conclusion of the grand

entry the participants assemble in this space with
their playground di-

rector in charge. The
playground director
then notifies each
group of performers
when their turn comes
and sends them to the
circus director, who in
turn is in touch with
the ringmaster and
band leader, and sends
them into the arena at
the proper time. The
playground director
should always have
one group in advance
sent out to the circus
director. The tight
rope walkers should
lead the grand entry,
so that they will be
ready, as their number
immediately follows
the parade.

Boy scouts can usu-
ally be obtained from local scout troops to handle
spectators. If this is not possible, a group of
responsible boys can be picked out and given patrol
arm bands.

p.

The playground director should arrange to have
four boys from fourteen to eighteen to act as
roustabouts.

These boys will move and arrange properties as
needed. Two are stationed at each entrance and

receive instructions from the circus director or
from the ringmaster.

 

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Commission Alton, III.

So fierce are some of the animals that cages
are often necessary. other

Clown Stunts

No mention has been made of clown stunts in
the program itself, as they are usually run in to
cover delays, such as shifting properties, etc. They
are, of course, a very popular feature. Clown
work is not as simple as it looks. As a rule it
should not be left to the younger boys who are in-
clined to be silly rather than funny. Clowning
should be done, therefore, by older boys. The
clowns should remain close to the entrances with
the necessary properties, so that the circus director
or ringmaster can get them quickly when needed.

A few stunts follow:

Bathtub Stunt. Properties: A small bathtub or
washtub mounted on a small wagon. On one side
of the wagon is a window frame. A small block
of wood painted white to resemble soap and a
scrubbing brush are
also needed. A small
boy in a light colored
bathing suit sits in the
tub and goes through
the motions of taking
a bath as a clown pulls
the wagon around the
outside of the ring.
The other clowns fol-
low, waving th e i r
arms, calling atten-
tion to the apparent
indiscretion of bath-
ing before the open
window.

Balloon. Stunt. A
clown walks into the
circus arena and sits
on one of the pedes-
tals. He slowly blows
up a toy balloon. The
clowns stand

close by, watching.

As the balloon gets
bigger the other clowns pretend fright and move
farther away. The balloon finally pops, knock-
ing the blower over. The other clowns slowly
gather around and find him apparently lifeless
and carry him out while the band plays a dirge.

Curiosity Stunt. A clown enters and bends
over, scanning the ground as if looking for some-
thing. A second clown enters, and after watching
the first clown, also takes up the search, the first
clown paying no attention. The first clown finally

(Continued on page 248)

 

___—.__

iMaking Old Games Popular

OW organized
L games are
mass or group
games of few and
very simple rules.
They lend them-
selves to a ready
use for any number
of participants. They are adaptable for any occa-
- sion and are subject to countless variations as well
as to endless inventions of other related games.
There are six cardinal points which make for
the successful utilization of the mass of “low
organized” games.

The Approach

The announcement, “Come on, children, we
are going to play Baste the Bear” is an average
approach made to begin a game and it meets with
just average success. On the other hand there
are dozens of devices which lend themselves as
an approach to a game. A score or more children
are present on the playground when the period for
group games arrives. If the children are started
upon some plan of grouping which arouses their
interest they can be arranged into groups prepara-
tory to the game without effort, coaxing, com—
mand or threats. Suppose the children were asked
to line up with all the youngsters with blue eyes
at the teacher’s right and the brown and black
eyed children to the left. There will be an inter—
est. Or, the children with birthdays in January,
February, March, April, and May, are asked to
line up at the right and those with birthdays in
the other months at the left. There will be

thought and interest and curiosity as to how many
there are likely to be in each group. Again, chil—

John H. Gourley, Commissioner of
Recreation, Cleveland, Ohio, stresses
the value of games of low organization
and offers suggestions for their use.

dren whose names
begin with letters
in the first half of
the alphabet are re-
quested to form
one group and
those of the latter
half of the alphabet
in the other group.

A little thought will reveal scores of other
equally novel assembly and organizing devices.

Group Organization

When groups have been formed the mechanics
of arrangement are most important. With a smat-
tering of knowledge of marching commands.
movements and tactics, the groups already formed
by the devices suggested in the interest creating
period, will permit the groups to be formed into
any formation or units desired to start a game.

The simple device of having the children take
hold of hands or put-their arms around the waists
of the youngsters ahead of them permits the lines
to be moved into circular or square formation or
into additional lines. Thus linked the teacher may
move the lines 'without definite marching mechan-
ics into readiness for a game.

All of the “stunts” for partner selection and
party mixers are equally as valuable and lend
themselves to creating interest and group organi—
zation.

Selection and Association of Games

The leader may have approximately an hour
for this low organized game programme. The
preparation for this period for a real success re-
gardless of the number of children, their disposi—

 

222 ‘ MAKING OLD GAMES POPULAR

tions, whether conditions, or other factors, is most
important.

A selection of one or two line games, an equal
number of circle games, and a race, feat or stunt,
is a good outline for any period.

A line or circle game is not really known by
the instructor or leader until its variations and
possibilities for creating or inventing other games
have been studied and these variations in its play
worked out and a number of other games built
from its structure.

So many of our published and standard low or-
ganized games are but variations of other games,
formed by the association of two or more games,
or new “inventions” in which one or more of the
basic principles of one game have been combined
with other elements of another game.

The selection of games for a low organized
period should be made from other points of view
as well. Too frequently the shelter house or place
of storage for the game equipment is a real dis-
tance from the low organized field of play. If the
leader has selected games that require a trip to
the equipment boic, the success will be small and
each game must almost be reorganized with the
same procedure as at the beginning of the period.

Games that use the same equipment or no equip-
ment may well be selected for any one period.
Dodge Ball and Circle Stride Ball are illustra-
tions of circle games, while Over and Under, and
Tmmel Ball are examples of line games. Poison
Snake and Circle Pin Ball may be planned for the
same period.

Races which use the same game equipment
should be a feature and close the period.

Introduction to Games

Rather than announce the game, which in itself
may cause no spark of interest for many reasons,
a little pedagogy is still necessary. With the group

in formation and in readiness, a story about the
game or just a fact or two about emphasizing its
origin or some essential of the game, will create
interest. Line games have originated from early
contest ideas. The mere fact that lines are estab-
lished facing each other for some competition
brings home the memory of many contests be-
tween clans, parishes. towns and counties. A
story of some contest briefly told may be attached
to the same and give color to the game.

Circle games originated largely from festivals
or ceremonials. Perhaps the circle games selected
for play may be found to have a story associated
with them. If not some story which concerns
itself with a circle of folks may be likewise at-
tached to the game and create new interest.

Variations and Inventions

A change in the equipment used in the game
is a first means of varying the game. A change
of position or a change in the mode of moving
may be a next means of bringing change to the
game. If the game involves elimination, that evil
may be met by putting those eliminated together
and permitting the “winner” to re-enter the orig-
inal group. Breaking the groups up into smaller
units which qualify the winners for the finals
presents another method.

The formation, equipment, position of partici-
pants, mode of movement, and object of game,
are essential elements in all games. “A change in
any one of these elements by the leader creates a
new game. If the leader works with the children
to invent a new game out of the old one, a readi-
ness of invention will produce sufficient inventions
to more than occupy the period and bring the hour
to a close with a freshness and feeling of enjoy-
ment that will leave them fully prepared for a
new type of activity. This is a greatly to be
desired result.

A Few Games of Low Organization

HE Extension Department of the Mil-

waukee Public Schools has been very suc-

cessful in adapting a number of low
organized; games for use with large or small
groups. They are frequently used to hold the
interest of early arrivals on the playground.
Among these games are Dodge Ball (for two
or for three persons, and‘ for large groups), Base-
ball Dodge, One Out, Poison Snake or Poison
Stick, All Up Relay, Flying Target, Jumping

Shot, War, and All Run. Others may be used.

A list of twenty-one games of low organization
from another city includes Club Snatch, Black
and White, Red Rover, Poison, Spud, Squirrel
in Trees, Three Deep Variations, Japanese Tag,
Chain Tag, Last Couple Out, Swat Tag, Re-
verse Tag, Ring \Vrestle, Bull in Ring, Circle
Stride Ball, Circle Dodge Ball, Merry-Co-Round,
Circle Ball, Club Guard, and Touch Ball or Cen-
ter Catch Ball.

Something Old !
Something New!

In the quest for new ideas
for the playground pro-
gram other cities can,
perhaps, help you.

tions of old ones—the introduction of devices

which will add interest to the program and
will 'have real developmental values—this is the
ever present problem of the recreation worker.
What other workers have done or plan to do to
meet the problem is, there-
fore, a matter of keen in-
terest.

Clean-up campaigns are
not new, but Lynchburg,
Virginia, has added some
new features in its “Civic
Week on the Play-
grounds.” From each of
the fifteen playgrounds,
there sallied forth, just be-
fore the summer play-
ground season, an eager
group of children with an
adult leader, entrusted
with the responsibility of
making a chart showing all
vacant lots within a radius
of a mile of their center.
A check was made of those
needing cleaning and later
in the month these same
groups spent two days in
cleaning the lots and scat-
tering wild flower seeds on
them. Special collection of
trash was arranged with
the city authorities. While
making the charts, the

T HE search for new activities, for new adapta—

Play streets are a part of the
summer program of the Phila-
delphia Playgrounds Association

In

Playground
Programs

children delivered to each home they passed a
“Clean-up Bulletin.”

Storytelling

What have you done in your city to promote
storytelling?

Start your program in the sand box is a sug-
gestion which comes from Louisville, Kentucky.
Gardens, castles and cities, farms and roadsters,
were patted and scraped by sandy lingers when

 

224 SUN [3 TH I N G 0L1)!

350 young architects of this city spent an entire
afternoon early in July in the new playground sand
boxes. Many of the children told stories about
their gardens and castles as they built them.
These story hours in. the sand boxes were one of
the most interesting features of the city’s play-
ground program last summer. The director or
one of the children would tell a story while the
other children illustrated parts of the story in the
sand. An igloo with pop corn snow was modeled
for the story of the far North, while all the towers

of Camelot arose in the sand as the legends of the
Round Table were told.

Perhaps one of the most ambitious programs
of storytelling is that offered by the Recreation
Department of Salt Lake City, Utah, which ten
years ago held its first storytelling festival. Last
summer the large central lawn at Liberty Park
with its twenty-four bannered spots marked the
station and theme of each of the costumed story-
tellers. At 7 o’clock the storytellers, all artists in
their craft, took their places, and the tenth annual
festival began. For over an hour thousands of
children and adults stood at a storytelling booth
or moved from one group to another getting a

sample of all types of folk lore. At the conclusion
of the children’s hour

several students of
dramatic art from the
University of Utah
regaled the adults with
stories for older peo-
ple by use of a micro-
phone and a portable
amplifier.

A Playground
Spelling Bee

A spelling bee in
which the words used
as far as possible per-
tain to the playground
program, is the idea
which comes from the

Memphis, Tennessee, playgrounds conducted by
the Park Department. “Handcraft,” “athletics,”
“apparatus” and similar words have special inter-
est for the children. And they are not always

easy to spell !

That Closing Festival!

Whether you make the closing events of the
summer playground season a festival or a circus.

 

A long hike ending at their overnight
camp is not too strenuous for the students
of the Slippery Rock, Pa", Normal School

SOMETHING NEl/V!

there is always the problem of introducing some
thing new.

In Bloomheld, New Jersey, the Department of
Recreation added interest to its closing festival by
giving it the title “Around the World” and intro-
ducing various nationalities, each playground rep-
resenting a different country. The Spectators
were transported from nation to nation as scene
after scene in this series of skits, pantomimes and
folk dancing unrolled before their eyes. The folk
dancing was done by the girls, while the panto-
mimes and skits were given by the boys.

And as for the circus, a very effective finale was
worked out in the circus held by the playground
children of V-Vinona, Minnesota, when the elec-
tricity was suddenly snapped off and the lights
of lanterns began to appear as the children, carry-
ing the lanterns which they had made for the re-
cent lantern parade, marched around the arena.

Know Your Own Parks!

Many cities are only just beginning to appre-
ciate the recreational assets they possess in their
parks. Recreation departments are doing much
to promote this appreciation by such a “Know
Your Own Parks” campaign as the Recreation
Department of Salt
Lake City, Utah, con-
ducted last summer.
Groups starting at the
bandstand of Liberty
Park, made a tour of
the park with a worker
trained in nature lore.
Further use of the fa-
cilities of the Salt
Lake City parks was
promoted by the Rec-
reation Department
when each week
groups of children and
young people left the
play centers with their
leaders to camp over-
night at the dormitory in Mueller Park, where they
prepared their own meals and planned their own
program. The erection of an outdoor fireplace
and stone circle benches and of an indoor fire-
place. has added greatly to the enjoyment.

Music on the Playgrounds

Music activities in the playground program are
developing rapidly. The interesting feature of

SOMETHING OLD!

the program conducted by the Park and Recrea—
tion Board of Birmingham, Alabama, is the care-
ful preparation which goes into making the music
really good. Outlines are presented several
months before the Opening of the playground sea-
son, and each playground leader learns every toy
orchestration and every suggested song and tests
her ability on the harmonica. For experience has
shown that the play leaders who can not play with
skill get no results, but where leaders are skillful
players the playgrounds have had bands of from
forty to fifty members playing three and four part
music with beautiful effect.

Most of the public schools of Birmingham have
toy orchestras in their primary departments. The
Park and Recreation Board had the happy idea of
correlating the playground work with that done in
the schools, and as a result very satisfactory prog-
res's has been made. Out of 31 playgrounds 24
had toy orchestras entered in the final music con-
test held at the municipal auditorium before a
large audience.

Singing is a part of the prOgram and every lead-
er Operates on a definite time schedule. It is not
at all unusual to hear a child say, “Come on,
everybody, it’s time to sing l”

An Inter-Playground Bicycle Race

There have been many bicycle races, but the
inter-playground race such as that held in Ham-
den, Connecticut, may be something of a novelty
for it proved also to be a Learn-Your-Own-Town
project.

The nine playgrounds in the town of Hamden
are entirely scattered and many children ride their
bicycles to reach them. This fact suggested to the
superintendent of recreation the idea of a contest.
The set-up was very simple. Contestants were
limited to six from each ground selected by the
playground instructors. The age limit of sixteen
years was set. A day and hour were selected
when fewest motor vehicles were likely to be on
the streets. Traffic policemen on busy corners co-
operated so that liability through collision was
cut to a minimum.

Each contestant was fur-
nished with a card to be signed
by an instructor with time of
arrival at each of the other
eight playgrounds. The six
contestants from each ground
were started at intervals of five
minutes to insure against

To help you in the summer play-
ground program—"ConductoiPIay-
grounds," "Handcraft" "What We
Did on a Summer Playground,"
"Sand Modeling Manual," bulle-

tins and other program aids.

Send to the N. R. A. for a new

list of publications iust off the press.

SOMETHING NEW! 225

bunching and reckless racing. The time of return
to the home playground was recorded and the low-
est time for the round of playgrounds computed.
The contestants were allowed to select their own
routes which the wise ones had, of course, planned
out ahead of time. The only rule governing the
contest with the exception of limitation of age, was
that the route must be covered entirely under the
contestants’ own leg power.

A playground badge was given the contestants
with the lowest time from each playground: A
small cup was awarded the lowest individual rec-
ord from the combined entrants. A boy who ped-
dled papers on his bicycle each day won this
trophy. One of the interesting outcomes of the
contest was the fact that many of the contestants
visited playgrounds which they had never been on
before; some of them saw sections of the town
which they had never visited.

Summer Plans in Cleveland

“In view of the general unemployment,” writes
J. H. Gourley, Recreation Commissioner, Cleve—
land, Ohio, “much emphasis will be placed on the
development of evening programs and a great
part of the season’s effort will be directed toward
creating opportunity for the children to demon-
strate their work and engage the cooperation of
adults as individuals and in organized groups.”

One of the first efforts to bring about a definite
correlation of playground activities and the co-
operation of individuals and groups will be the
organization, just before the opening of the play-
ground season, of the Municipal Playground
Council. More than 1,000 adults have been regis-
tered during the past seasons as active in aiding
playground programs. These adults are to be in-
vited by the City Manager to attend a demonstra-
tion by the supervisory and teaching staff of the
program conducted this year. This conference
program will be in the nature of a demonstration
in dramatic form and will include brief accounts
of the various special and regular activities. Op—
portunities for cooperation will be given in some
detail and the adults and group
representatives from each
playground neighborhood will
meet personally during the
evening the staff in charge of
their neighborhood play-
ground. A committee from
each playground is to be se-
lected and a city-wide council

226 SOMETHING OLD!

formed of these groups accepting responsibility.

Handcraft, singing games, folk dancing, story-
telling, games and music will be correlated with
the special features and closing features already
established as part of the neighborhood activities
during the past few
years. In the planning
of the routine work
during each day’s pro-
gram, material is to be
developed which will
lend itself to a use in
these early evening
community programs.

Each day of the
week a special teacher
will be a guest, so to
Speak, on each play-
ground. Teachers of
handcraflt, storytell-
ing, nature study,
Houdini, and the mu-
sic teacher who will
specialize on the toy
orchestra and closing
features, will spend one day each week on each
playground. Thus a new appeal each day will be
made on each ground. Close cooperation between
the regular staff and the special teachers both in
planning the work outlined in the program and in
their organization efforts will permit a rapid de-
velopment of material for the special features of
community interest.

Each supervisor is also assigned to a special
interest such as games, gymnastics, athletics, sand-
craft and special features. These supervisors will
direct the organization of the program within the
scope of their special assignments and the organi-
zation work so that they will also contribute to
the nightly programs and toward the building up
of the material and units used in the final city-
wide festival which this year is to be known as
Aladdin’s Lamp or The Wonderland of Child-

hood.

Special teachers and those in charge of special
assignments, cooperating with the playground
directors, will extend to the corps of forty leaders
organized every year on each playground an in-
vitation to participate again. Demonstration
groups in games, athletics and gymnastics will be
organized. An invitation will be extended to
every neighborhood fraternal, musical and drama-
tic group through the staff worker in the neigh-

 

Stilt walking is a. real adventure
with plenty of thrills for the daring!

SOMETHING NEW!

borhoods. The experience of the past years in
developing the community program has shown that

, these groups are glad to participate.

Practically all of the playgrounds conducted by
the Division of Recreation are situated in neigh-
borhoods where for-
eign language organi-
zations are conspicu-
ous. More than 300
foreign language na-
tional'organizations
have branches in
Cleveland, and con-
tacts have been made
with more than 100
of these local organi-
zations through the
work of the depart-
ment. These organiza-
tions have musical,
dramatic and gymnas-
tic groups. They are
especially strong in
children’s groups
which will have a

unique opportunity to participate in this sum-
mer’s program.

Beginning with the handcraft work as a basis,
a “tour” is to be made of eight selected countries.
The characteristic nationalistic features of these
countries are to be used in influencing the projects,
nature and design of each week’s handcraft pro-
gram. Spain, Czechoslovakia, China, Germany,
Holland, Hungary, Scandinavia, and America
(Indian) are .the countries selected. They are
all particularly rich in handcraft suggestions and
in singing games, folk dances, stories, games and
music adaptable in bringing about a correlation of

work that should produce a varied and colorful
program.

Throughout the winter the handcraft staff has
supervised the making of several score of cos—
tumes of permanent material for thirty nationali-
ties so that the folk dance and singing games
groups might be ready at all times to present their
work in a most attractive manner. In addition,
the children’s handcraft program during the sea-
son will create costumes of more perishable mate-
rial for each country but suitable for the pro:-
grams. Material supplied for the handcraft pro-
gram has been selected for its availability for this
development along nationality lines.

(Continued on page 248)

Attendance Taking on the Playground
Can It Be Effectively Standardized?

By Jacob W. Feldman
Recreation Department, Newark, N. I.

Wanted-w! common
denominator for solving
attendance - taking
problems.

HE question of
the best methold
of taking attend-

ance on playgrounds
is one that makes its

appearance at all rec—
reation congresses, conferences or meetings of
which recreation workers come together. One rea-
son for this is the emphasis so many officials put
on their attendance figures and their desire to
compare them with those from other systems.
Because of the difference in the method used in
gathering the figures, they are not comparable at
all. To try to compare them is absurd. Any one
who knows how attendance figures are gathered
realizes this and does not try to compare attend-
ance figures from one system with those of an-
other; but laymen and sometimes recreation offi-
cials do compare attendance figures. It would be a
great aid to the recreation movement if some com—
mon method of procedure for taking attendance
could be developed that could be used on different
types of recreation systems. The figures derived
by this common method would then be comparable.
In order to know the different methods of at-
tendance taking used in the United States, the
National Recreation Association sent out a ques-
tionnaire to forty-seven recreation executives
asking them to describe the method that they
were using for taking attendance on their play—
grounds. From the replies received there seemed

to be seven general methods in use.
1. Taking one count a day

at the peak load.

2. Taking a count at the
peak load at the morning, af-
ternoon and evening sessions
and adding these together to
arrive at the total attendance
for the day.

3. Taking three counts a
day, averaging them for the
attendance.

4. Taking one count a day,

ministration.

ing question.

Mr. Feldman, who is director of the
Central Avenue Community Center
maintained by the Department of
Recreation of the Newark, New
Jersey, Board of Education, raises a
problem which is perhaps more fre-
quently discussed than any other
technical phase of recreation ad-
His analysis of the
situation throws light on a perplex-

adding 33%, per cent to the number secured.

5. Taking the maximum count for morning,
afternoon and evening and adding them together,
then adding one-third of this total to give the at-
tendance for the day.

6. Taking three counts as in Number 5, but
adding only 15 per cent.

7. Actually registering the children and hav-
ing them check in every day they come on the
playground.

Since methods that are so different are used to
take attendance, one can easily see why there is
such a difference of Opinion as to what the at-
tendance figures really represent, and can readily
realize the absolute impossibility of using at-
tendance figures from different systems for pur-
poses of comparison.

Two Experiments

This fact was brought out very clearly in the
case of two tests that were conducted in widely
separate sections of the country—one in New
York City and the other in Des Moines, Iowa.
The experiment in New York City was conduct—
ed at four playgrounds by Mr. Charles J. Storey
of the Russell Sage Foundation in October, 1928.
The results of his test were issued by the National
Recreation Association as Bulletin No. 2030.
The test was conducted for only one day on each
of the playgrounds. One of the things that Mr.
Storey brought out in his test was what the dif-

ference in the final attendance figures would be
when the seven different meth-

ods of attendance taking were
used. The difference is very
striking, as is shown in Table
No. 1. During the test there
was perfect control of those
'entering and leaving the
grounds. Every child entering
was registered. During the
day counts were taken as de-
scribed by the seven different
(Continued on page 232)

227

 

Swimming Programs
in

Municipal Pools

With swimming ranking high in favor
as a playground activity, public
provision for this sport is imperative.

ATER sports in the playground pro-
W gram are becoming increasingly impor-
tant. Pools are multiplying and Learn-
to-Swim campaigns are growing in number.
Swimming activities played a major part in the
1930 summer program of the Cincinnati, Ohio,
playgrounds. All play centers except one are now
equipped with at least one and in many instances
two swimming pools. Playgrounds with only one
pool have a large combination swimming and wad;
ing pool, 80 to 100 feet long and 35 feet wide.
Seven of these pools are completely enclosed with
a chain link fencing and all the others will be
fenced as rapidly as funds become available. The
shallow end of the new pools, 9 to 18 inches in
depth, is separated by a wall from the deeper end.
2 feet. 6 inches to 3 feet, 8 inches in depth, so
that the youngsters have their fun in safety with-
out interfering with the older group.

228

Such miniature swimming pools for small
children should be found in every city

All of the children using these pools are re-
quired to take a soap shower before going into
the pool, the soap being furnished by the Public
Recreation Commission. Suitable shower and
dressing room facilities are provided in every
playground shelter building. Play leaders are re-
quired to instruct the children in the necessity of
carrying out all the rules and regulations of sani-
tation and hygiene that are printed on placards
and posted either inside or outside the shower.
Certain responsible children are assigned as health
guards to assist the play leader in body inspection
and general supervision.

Every precaution is taken to maintain these
pools at the highest sanitary standard. The water
is changed daily, and every evening the pools are
thoroughly scrubbed with stiff brushes. Each
pool is treated with chloride of lime solution as
often as the necessity is disclosed by ortho-tolidin

test. This test is made several times daily by the
play leaders. In addition, the pools are tested
every week at irregular periods by the Board of
Health inspectors and weekly reports of findings
are submitted to the Public Recreation Commis-
Sion.

Swimming Events in Cincinnati

A Special supervisor of swimming is employed
by the Public Recreation Commission whose duty
it is to see that all rules and regulations concerning
the use of pools are observed, to teach beginners’
classes in swimming at regular class periods, to
organize swimming meets for the various play-
ground geographical section units, and to conduct
the city-wide championship meet. The following
events are conducted for every one of the six
geographical units and for the city-wide cham-
pionship meet:

 

Interesting programs and high sanitary standards are

factors in the large attendance at this Cincinnati pool

Mid-Junior Boys

1. Free Style, 1 length

2. Side Stroke, 1 length

3. Relay, 4 boys, 1 length each
Junior B oys

1. Free Style, 1 length

2. Back Stroke, 1 length

3. Relay, 6 boys, 1 length each
Intermediate Boys

1. Free Style, 2 lengths

2. Back Stroke, 1 length

3. Relay, 6 boys, 2 lengths each
[Mid-Junior Girls

1. Free Style, 1 length

2. Side Stroke, 1 length

3. Relay, 4 girls, 1 length each
Junior Girls

1. Free Style, 1 length

2. Side Stroke, 1 length

229

230 SWIMMING PROGRAMS

3. Relay, 6 girls, 1 length each
Intermediate Girls

1. Free Style, 1 length

2. Side Stroke, 1 length

3. Relay, 6 girls, 1 length each

A compilation of figures for the past four years
recently completed shows that 1,854 different in-
dividuals and 343 relay teams have taken part in
these swimming meets in the outdoor pools, the
figures for 1930 being 455 individuals and 85

relay teams.

In addition to these outdoor swimming pools,
the Public Recreation Commission operates six
indoor swimming pools located in public school
buildings. As these pools have a maximum of
nine feet, a swimming instructor and assistant and
a janitor are employed at all six locations. A spe-
cial indoor championship meet is held for these

pools.

The swimming supervisor also conducts swim-
ming tests for beginners. These minimum stand-
ard tests are set up by the Public Recreation Com-
mission to stimulate individuals in the desire to
swim. Certihcates are awarded the children who
pass the test. Four hundred and three children
passed the test during the summer of 1930. Be-
ginners’ tests are conducted both at the indoor
and outdoor pools. The swimming supervisor
also has charge of the Junior Red Cross Life
Saving Tests and more than one hundred boys
and girls from the indoor pools passed this test

in 1930.

It is believed that the eight percent increase in
playground attendance in 1930 was largely caused
by the presence of these swimming pools on the
playgrounds and because of their widespread use
by the children this summer when the mercury
reached 100° or more every day during the ex-
tremely hot weather.

The Los Angeles Plan

To promote instruction in swimming at the age
when the elements of swimming skill are best
learned and with the maximum facility, the Los
Angeles Playground and Recreation Department
has for four yearsconducted a swimming week
when “Learn to Swim Campaigns” are promoted.
The plan goes into action each spring just before
school closes for the summer vacation. One week
is set aside for the girls’ campaign; the following
week the campaign for boys is held. In 1930 all
the city pools were used, both those municipally
operated, eleven in number, and the one large

private pool at Bimini Baths. It was found neces-
sary, because of the increased demand on the part
of the pupils, to operate four of the ten municipal
pools for an additional two weeks.

Attendance in the campaign is entirely volun-
tary. Posters are sent out to the schools in the
neighborhood of the pools advertising the dates
and the opportunity to learn to swim. The school
principal then registers all those who express their
desire for the instruction. An admission card is
given the student to take home for the parents’
signature. This admission card contains pertinent
information about the campaign as well as coupon
or stubs. Each card is stamped with a serial num-
ber to be used in case an accurate check of any
student’s attendance may be desired. The attend-
ance is taken at the pool by the collection of the
prOper stub. The first day the main body of the
card is taken and filed. A meeting is held with
the pool directors prior to the beginning of the
campaign. At this meeting the details of organi-
zation are rehearsed.

The Publicity Campaign. Along with arrange-
ments at the schools goes a vigorous publicity
campaign. Last year this campaign included the
release of special stories to more than 100 news-
papers in Los Angeles and its suburbs during two
succeeding weeks. Beginning with the Saturday
preceding the opening of Los Angeles’ swimming
week and continuing throughout the week there
were daily publicity stories. In the six metro-
politan newspapers of the city pictures, layouts
and cartoons were also used. The total newspaper
publicity received from the clipping agency
amounted to approximately six hundred column
inches. It is estimated that from sixty to seventy-
five per cent of the total amount of the actual
publicity printed is collected by the clipping
agency.

Radio was effectively used in connection with
this campaign. Broadcasts included_two special
descriptions of Los Angeles Swimming Week
over KMTR on Tuesday, August 12th, and Tues-
day, August l9th. There was also a special broad-
cast over a local station. Announcements were
made from time to time over other radio stations
regarding Swimming Week, urging the public to
visit the nearest municipal swimming pool either
to witness or take part in the activities there. All
local radio stations of Los Angeles were ap-
proached with regard to this matter and gave
excellent cooperation. In addition to the news-
paper and radio publicity for this week, a Fox

SWIMMING PROGRAMS 231

Movietone newsreel of the canoe tilting feature
of the week was taken at Bimini Plunge.

Method of Instruction. As all the students are
beginners no classification test is necessary, so
that instruction begins with the one group advanc-
ing approximately at the same rate. A teaching
period of thirty minutes, in which a standard
method of group instruction is used, is followed
by a practice period of ten.

The Program. The program which concluded
the 1930 Swimming Week consisted of special
events each afternoon at the municipal pools, in—
cluding comedy races, canoe tilting, water fights
in canoes, children’s competitive races in the
various strokes, balloon races, egg and spoon
races, nightgown relays, dog paddle contests for
young children, form swimming and many other
water stunts and
events. -

T h e e v e n t s
planned at Bimini
included Fred
Cady’s Night, in
honor of one of
the local swimming
coaches who was
on hand to aid in
the conduct of the
evening’s festivi-
ties. This program
on Monday con-
sisted of an exhibi-
tion put on by the
swimmers from the
Los Angeles Athle-
tic Club, many of
them creating espe-
cial interest because
of their records as
national champions
in their favorite
events. Tuesday
night offered events
in which only the
younger children
participated. Wed-
nesday night was
set aside for com-
edy parades, com-
edy diving and
water stunts. Old
fashioned bathing
suits shone forth in

1.}

Courtesy American City

 

all their quaintness. On Thursday night a local
theatrical troupe put on a water show, with the
girls doing diving and drilled swimming in forma-
tion. Canoe tilting try-outs were also held on this
night. Friday night was given over to more canoe
tilting try-outs, with the girls again in attendance
with more stunts. Nothing created more amuse-
ment than these canoe tilting events.

At the municipal pools the programs took a
different character inasmuch as the events were
planned especially for and with the regular pool
attendance. At the Grifhth Municipal Pool, the
only pool that is operated by the Playground and
Recreation Department during the evening, the
first annual Junior Boys’ Diving Championship
was held. This event was sanctioned by the
A. A. U. and attracted great crowds.

Success of the

An example of the provision made ,\ by the Plan
Minneapolis Park Department for water sports

The attendance
records 3 h o w e d
that during the two
weeks of the regu-
lar campaign period
in 1930 there were
4,210 lessons given
to 957 students. Of
this number 593, or
63 per cent, passed
the Red Cross be-
ginners’ tests and
received the award
button. It is prob-
able that another
20 per cent learned
to swim but not
sufficiently to pass
the tests, or else
failed to attend "the
last meeting of the
class when the tests
were given.

During the fol-
lowing two weeks
an extended cam-
paign was held. At
only four poolsan
additional 234 stu-
dents entered bring-
ing the total to 1,391

(Continued on

page 249)

232 ATTENDANCE TAKING

Attendance Taking

(Continued from page 227)

methods listed as used by different executives in

getting attendance figures. The result is tabu-
lated in Table No. 1.

TABLE 1
APPLICATIONS or SEVEN METHODS OF TAKING
ATTENDANCE
Tompkins \V. 59th
Heckscher Sq. St. Yorkville
1. Registering each
child . . . . . . . . . . . 2.410 1.199 1.086 1.261
2. One count 3 day
Maximum . . . . . . 1.113 149 233 250
3. Maximum hourly
count morning, af-
ternoon and eve-
ning, added  1.875 365 439 650
4. Three counts a
day averaged  625 122 146 218
5. One count a day
plus 1/3 . . . . . . .. 1.484 199 311 341
6. Three counts :1
day plus 1/3  2.500 487 585 871
7. Three counts a '
day plus 15%.... 2.156 420 505 751

Mr. Storey states in his article—“It will be
seen that only one method (No. 6 applied to
Heckscher Playground figures) has any relation
to the actual count of a playground. The curve
of hourly attendance at the Heckscher Play-
ground shows a uniform rise to 3 o’clock, then
an almost equally uniform fall till evening. This
would account for the approximation of the total
by adding the three hourly counts plus a third
for those who came in and left between counts.
If the attendance of a playground were taken a
number of times, giving hourly counts, and the
total attendance, it would be possible to work a
formula based on an average relation between
hourly counts and the total number of individual
children attending each day. The counts would
also have to be taken at different seasons to al-
low for certain seasonal variations.”

The second test is ,found in the attendance
figures that were gathered for the recreation
system of Des Moines, Iowa, consisting of 20
playgrounds, and for the entire summer season
of eight weeks. These figures were compiled by
Mr. Lewis R. Barrett, then Superintendent of
Recreation of Des Moines, Iowa, in the summer
of 1928. For purpose of comparison he used two
of the seven methods in general use for taking
attendance and which have been enumerated in
this article. One of the methods of procedure
in Des Moines was to register every child who
came to the playgrounds, giving him a num-
ber which he checked in each day he came

to the playground. The other method used
was to have the director count the children three
times a day at the peak load and to add these
figures to give the total attendance for the day.
The results of this test is shown in Table No. 2.

TABLE 2

ATTEXDANCE FIGURES FROM DES MomEs, Iowa,

SUMMER SESSION 1928—0F 48 DAYS

Total
Average No. attendance
of days each Total taking 3
No. of child attended attendance counts 3 day

Name of children plgd. over with child and adding
Playground enrolled 8 wk. period checking in them
Allen . . . . . . 327 20 6,541 6,831
Burke . . . . . . 226 36 7,232 9,660
Drake . . . . . . 408 26 10,608 8,101
Franklin . . . 304 34 10,336 12,698
Goode . . . . . . 455 22 10,010 9,446
Greenwood . 217 28 6,076 15,940
McRae . . . . . 363 18 6,534 7,506
McHenry . . . 336 38 12,768 15,912
N ash . . . . . . . 337 22 7,414 8,677
Union . . . . . . 671 36 24,156 26,275
\Valker . . . . 496 32 15,872 17,986
Benton . . . . . 210 28 5,880 7,132
Brooks . . . . . 419 22 9,218 10,704
Crocker . . . . 217 24 5,208 3,974
Hubbell . . . . 202 38 7,676 5,934
Scott . . . . . . . 186 36 3,348 2,581
Logan . . . . . . 335 36 6,030 3,484
Park Ave. . . . 123 20 1,230 1,963
Sabin . . . . . . 156 22 1,716 2,279
\Villard . . . . 187 20 3,740 9,270

The figures in the tables shown throw a very
strong light on the reason for 'the marked dis-
agreement in attendance figures. Here is one
system where two methods for taking attendance
were used and the difference in the attendance
reached was rather startling to say the least!
There are fourteen grounds that show a larger
attendance by taking the count three times a day
and adding them than by the method of having
the children check in daily, while six of the play-
grounds show a higher attendance figure when
the checking in method is used than when the
three count method is used. By studying Table 2,
one can see that in the case of Willard and Green-
wood Playgrounds the three count method would
give about 2% times as high an attendance figure
as the checking method, while in the case of Logan
Playground, the checking in method would show
1.8 times as high an attendance as the three count
method gave. Mr. Storey found that the at-
tendance by the three count method was lower
in each case than the registering and checking
in method. In the case of Tompkins Square the
actual registering of children gave a count that
was 3% as much as the three count method would
have given. A study of these two reports in-
dicate very clearly the great need of some com—
mon method of procedure for taking attendance.

ATTENDANCE TAKING 233

Wanted—A Common Method

This summer an attempt will be made to de—
velop such a common method. Ten recreation
systems in Northern New Jersey, which are mem-
bers of the Northern New Jersey Recreation Dis—
trict, will help in this experiment. The methods
to be used in taking the attendance have not been
fully decided upon, but they are being developed
by conference by the executives of the systems
involved, and will have been finally decided upon
before this appears in print. Two or three
methods of taking the attendance will be used
on the same grounds at the same time So that
comparison of methods and figures can be made.

It seems to be the consensus of opinion that
some method of registration should be used, as
that seems to be the basis for a truly accurate
attendance count. The only objection to regis-
tering is the amount of time that is involved.
But the information that one can gather from the
registration figures more than compensate for
the time taken. The method of registering chil-
dren that is now in use in the Department of
Recreation, Board of Education, Newark, N. J.,
system is the one that will very likely be adopted.
A registration sheet is used on which twenty
names can be filled in on each side, and the fol-
lowing information is gathered about the child:
his name, address, age, and school attended.
There is also space on this blank to keep his daily
attendance for five weeks. When a child regis-
ters he is given a number that he checks in every
day he comes to the playground. This system of
registering was instituted in Newark in the sum-
mer of 1930. While it means considerable work
the information that these registration forms
yield is great indeed. If ten systems adopt this
method and the results are studied at the end

of the season, some worthwhile facts will be
brought out.

Facts Secured Through Registration

To show the possibilities that will be opened
up by the mass of data that will be gathered dur-
ing the summer, we present some of the results
of studying Newark figures for last summer.
First, registration gave us the actual number of
children attending the playgrounds. In Newark
16,899 different children registered on the play-
grounds. Second, having their addresses it is
possible to make a spot map for each playground
which will show the distance the children travel.
It will also show whether the playground is pull-
ing children from all directions. or from one only.

This brings out some interesting facts about 10-
cating playgrounds and factors that affect the
pulling power of a playground. Third, having
the ages of the children it is very easy to plot a
curve for each ground and one for the entire
system showing the number of children of each age
who attend the playgrounds. Taking the Newark
system as a whole for both boys and girls the 12
year old has the largest number attending while
10 year old come next. Some of the individual
grounds, however, differ greatly from this.
Finding out the reason for this variation should
help the recreation executive in planning his pro-
gram and in determining whether it is necessary
to set certain grounds aside for smaller children
and others for larger children. Fourth, if the
Newark method of checking in the children is
adopted, the average number of days that a child
attends a playground can be determined. In
Newark for July, 1930, the average number of
days that every registered child attended the
playgrounds was 13.57 while in August it was
14.8 days. There are so many other facts that
the registration figures will yield after a close
study, that the time taken to register the children
will be well spent, and there is no doubt but that
this mass of data from 10 cities should and will
have some effect on playground technique.

As for the other method to be used, it has been
suggested that three counts a day be taken and
added. The figures obtained by this method {will
be compared with those of the registering and
checking in method, to see if there is a certain
percentage that is fairly constant for each play-
ground after two or three weeks trial. If such
a percentage is found then the attendance can be
determined by using the three count method plus
this percentage.

The percentage will in all probability vary for
each playground, so that what is used on one
ground cannot be used on another. It will not
be possible to set up a general formula forgetting
the attendance on all grounds of a recreation sys-
tem such as taking the count three times and add-
ing % or %. On playgrounds that are open all
year round this percentage will vary for each
season and it will be necessary to determine what
it is for each season.

While the suggested method of determining
this percentage would undoubtedly require some
extra work on the part of the playground staff,
the benefits derived would far outweigh the dif-
ficulties and would aid materially in solving a
vexing problem.

By Claude R. Buck

Department of Public Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania

EATHERCRAFT, the art of making useful

and beautiful articles from leather, is a craft

which arouses and holds the interest of all
groups. “It is an excellent project for the play-
ground because the tools required are simple and
the materials used are inexpensive. The craft
satisfies the desire to possess articles too expensive
to be considered at prices asked in specialty shops,
and the ease of construction gives the child the
confidence necessary to try more diflicult arts.
For leathercraft and its decoration creates an urge
for knowledge and skills in designing, drawing
and coloring through the medium of inks and
paints both of which add much charm to the
finished product.

Leathercraft was introduced on our local play-
grounds three years ago. Until that time basketry
and bead work were so popular as to stand alone
in the interest of the children; today, to avoid a
lopsided handcraft program, it is necessary to
restrict the work on leather to a two
week period during a ten week play sea-
son. During this period last year 500 pounds
of scrap leather were used by the children
at 22 playgrounds, and since each pound contains
from 5 to 10 square feet according to the thickness
of the leather, some idea of the demand may be
had. It may be that our particular program had
an unusual incentive when we first started leather
work in that we had Indian life for an overhead

234

 

Courtesy of National Craft: Supply Commny

 

 

Purses and wallet: are typical of the many
article; made possible through leathercraft

Leathercrafl' is coming into its

own on the playground. Tools are
simple and materials inexpensive.

theme on our playgrounds—a theme which added
interest to the use of leather in costuming and
implements.

.Tools and Materials

The tools, with the exception of a punch for the
lacing holes, are to be found in every household.
A pair of sharp scissors, a hard pencil, a ruler, and
a sharp knife are all that a beginner requires. The
punch may be of the wheel type, costing 85 cents,
with four or six sizes of punches ready to be
turned out for service at will and operated by
handles as an ordinary pair of pliers is operated.
Or it may be the type costing 15 cents which is
designed to be struck with a mallet. If this type
is used, the anvil must be for clear cut results the
end grain of a block of wood, preferably hard.
If the length of the grain of wood is used, the
wood under the punch is driven down‘ carrying
the leather with it, and the result is an irregular
hole.

Scrap leathers, which constitute the material re—
quired, are created in the leather using industries,
such as shoe factories, luggage works or uphol-
stering plants, through the discarding of pieces
with slight blemishes by offal, when but one piece
can be cut from a skin or hide, or when an odd

 

LEA TH ERC RAF T ' 235

shade of color is demanded on a given job and
one or more skins are left beyond requirements.
This scrap comes in a variety of color lending
added charm to the construction of projects, and
because of its cheapness it makes craft work in
leather possible on our play system where all
materials must be paid for by the user. Calf skins,
the most desirable of leather, costing 50 to 60
cents a square foot in the whole skins, can be had
in scraps at 30 cents a pound.

We have found that children demand projects
of practical, every-day use—purses, billfolds, belts
and moccasins. These are worn or proudly dis
played at all special events and at city—wide hand-
craft exhibitions where there is keen rivalry
among playgrounds. for originality of design and
superior workmanship. Many of the projects are
made for sale, and several of the boys on our play-
grounds finance their two weeks’ stay at a local
camp through this project.

Interest may be aroused by demonstration of a
few and simple fundamental principles, such as the
careful making of patterns for each object, accu-
racy of layout and the correct spacing of holes in
lace-together projects. Once aroused, this interest
may be sustained by having the first project one
which is quickly finished, by filling the demonstra—
tion with action and inspecting work thoroughly
for defects in workmanship. The next project
may be made one of the pupil’s own choosing, and
individual instruction should be given, thus en-
couraging self-expression. The finished projects,
which should not be too ambitious, should be dis-
played, the pupils being allowed to handle them
and discuss the workmanship.

Making a Purse

A small purse is a good project for beginners,
especially for mixed groups. If the class consists
entirely of men, a billfold or wallet may be made.
Since both projects embody all of the funda-
mentals we will proceed to make our pattern; for
the coin purse, 2% inches by 4 inches is a good
size. An unusual shape adds charm so we will
make ours a truncated cone.

Select a pieée of cardboard, draw your design,
write on the face the number of pieces required
and then cut out. Transfer pattern to leather and
lay out with pencil. Cut out the leather. You
are now ready to locate the holes necessary to
assemble your purse. The beginner always in-
quires, “How far from the edge and how far
apart must the holes be P” A good rule is to allow

as much space between the holes and from edge
to hole as the lacing is wide. This rule results in
a very attractive appearing work.

Right at this point your job is made or marred.
Take plenty of time in locating your holes, and to
be doubly sure that they are placed correctly count
all hole locations before punching on all parts that
are to be laced together. It is obvious that if one
line of twelve holes were to be laced to another
line with eleven holes in it, one hole would be un-
occupied. And this is a situation that frequently
arises because of the stretch in leather.

With the holes punched we are ready for our
lacing thong. Factory made lacing is so perfectly
uniform in width as to result in a factory made
appearance of the finished project and so expen-
sive as to be prohivitive in our classes; therefore,
we will make our own.

For the lacing choose from your scraps a darker
shade of the same color leather you used for your
purse. Cut a disc roughly round about 3 inches
in diameter. It may be oval. With your scissors
cut a strip about %3 inch wide, parallelling the
edge, continuing around until you near the center;
this will give you one long continuous piece. About
three times the combined length of your punched
area is required. If you watch the piece coming
off your shears you will quickly become proficient
in cutting lacing of“ an almost uniform width. Do
not be discouraged if there is an appreciable dif-
ference in the width as this lends a “crafty” ap-
pearance. And don’t be skeptical about the curl
in the lacer as you near the center; all of this will
pull out as you proceed .with your assembling.

Now the impatiently awaited final operation is
in order. Lay the two pieces together, and start-
ing at either end, draw lacer through the coincid-
ing holes until one inch remains on opposite side.
Hold this one inch piece between holes and edge
lace it fast. Some of the holes will not align;
stick the point of your pencil in the holes and draw
them in line; proceed until the corner is reached
where the corner eyelet is used twice and so on
until all holes are occupied. Tuck end of lace
under last three loops and draw tight. This will
make the end of lacing look exactly like start and
will hold lacer permanently in place. Never tie
knots. Place latch for tongue in slits provided,
fold flap and with mallet, hammer down fold into
permanent crease. Now your first project is

completed.
If these simple fundamentals are applied to all

leather projects, the student will have enough

236 LEATHERCRAFT

equipment to advance to more complicated work
and methods which will suggest themselves as in-
terest increases.

Moccasins

I have yet to find a group that did not demand
moccasins. Moccasins are of as many types as
there were tribes wearing them and the styles
varied from sandles to knee boots. \Vith the ex-
ception of the sandals, none of them can be classed
as extremely simple if a well fitting piece of foot
gear is demanded. All of the commonly recog—
nized moccasins require a larger piece of leather
than is usually found when buying scraps. There-
fore, to satisfy the demand we have designed a
moccasin made of four pieces which has met with
such approval locally that in one training course
104 workers made 180 pairs of this new type.

Draw outline of foot on cardboard. Draw on
separate piece of cardboard semi-circle with diam-
eter one-half inch longer than greatest width of
foot. Cut out and retain convex piece. Lay semi-
circle on foot outline so that it extends one-quarter
inch above farthest extended toe and one-quarter
inch on each side of foot Outline. The heel out-
line is nearly semi-circular; draw another semi-
circle large enough to allow about one-quarter inch
Space all around heel outline. Connect ends of the
two semi-circles with straight lines, thus complet-
ing pattern for sole. There should be one pattern
for both right and left foot.

The toe pattern is in two pieces. Draw a straight
line 6% inches long and 49.4, inches from one end
(A). Draw line (C) at
right angle. On this line
mark a point (B)
three-quarters of a n
inch longer than one-
half width at widest
place across the toe;
join this point with
starting point by a cir-
cular line 4 i n c h e s
radius. On line BC
mark point D 1%
inches from B. Connect
D and E with circular line 1% inch radius. This
completes the toe pattern.

Before making the pattern for the piece extend-
ing from toe to heel, we will prepare to assemble
the parts we have finished. We must lace the toe
pieces together along the straight line, so lay out
the holes as described for small purse. Having
completed this operation, we will turn our atten-

 

tion to the sole. On this piece we are going to do
another kind of lacing so we will change our hole
spacing, not because it is absolutely necessary but
to demonstrate that we have the privilege of varia-
tion. Draw a line 3/16 of an inch from edge
around entire sole and on this line space your holes
96; of an inch apart and punch.

\Ve are now ready to finish toe piece which we
previously laced together. Draw line 3/16 of an
inch from edge AB and corresponding edge of its
partner. On this line space your holes gig of an

'inch + 1/64 of an inch. On line BD lay out

holes as for purse. Now for the assembling.

Count the number of holes in AB. Starting at
center of toe in sole, count off same number of
holes. This hole is the point at which to start
lacing. Lay toe piece on t0p of sole and proceed.
Instead of going over and over as in the purse, the
lacing is done in a straight line. After lacing 3 or
4 holes, the sole will curl up at the edge; that is
just what we planned it to do but you are getting
into difficulties on account of the difference in
spacing your holes. Reach for the distant hole
in the toe with your pencil and pull it in line:
this will throw a rounded toe shape. Your pro-
ject is at this
time n e a r l y
completed.

We are now
ready for the
heel. Count the
n u 111 b e r o f
holes left un-
occupied in the
sole. As they
are % of an
inch apart, you
will know how
long the piece
must be. Make
it as wide as
BD, or, if you
want a cuff,
make it BD plus the width of desired cuff, about
9.4 of an inch. Lay off the holes 96 of an inch
along length of piece, and same as holes in BD
along width; lace together and your moccasins
are ready for many comfortable hours of soft,
protective foot gear. Sizes given are for No. 6
size foot.

 

Leathercraft in Hospitals

Leathercraft in hospitals under the dignified
(Continued on page 250)

National Recreation School

Presents Graduate Courses in

Recreation Leadership

uated 35 men and women, some of whom are

still available for employment in year-round
recreation leadership positions. This is the fifth
class to complete the graduate work of the school.
It included men and women who have had prac-
tical municipal recreation experience from one to
eleven years in the following cities: Alton, Illi-
nois; Cincinnati; Dallas; Detroit; Duluth; Lin-
coln, Nebraska; Mobile; Newport, Rhode Island;
Milwaukee; and San Diego. One student had
been assistant director of physical education for
men in a western university. A great majority
of the students were born and brought up in
the middle west, but there were also representa—
tives from the south, southwest, New England,
and the middle Atlantic states.

Some who had had no experience in public
recreation were experienced in teaching and in
settlement work and other activities allied to pub—
lic recreation. Furthermore, during the school
year the twenty-live men and ten women in the
class were engaged in practice work in 48 settle-
ments, playgrounds, and church recreation cen-
ters in greater New York. Many of them paid
most and some all of their expenses through this
employment. Since it served as field work, this
employment was given full supervision by a rep-
resentative of the National Recreation Associa-
tion in order that the work of the students might
be efficient and that it might also be personally
developing to each worker. The following are
some of the types of positions held by the stu-
dents:

Man student: assist inisupervising young men’s
gymnasium four or five evenings a week. Work
purely recreational and involved a thorough
understanding of basketball coaching and sym-
pathetic knowledge of other sports.

Woman student: music and dramatic activities
six periods a week, church neighborhood house.
Man student: playground and gymnasium
work, six periods a week, church neighborhood
house.

I N June the National Recreation School grad-

Man student: physical director from 3 to 5
and from 6:30 to 10:30 on week days except
Saturdays. The hours on Saturdays from 1:00
to 10:30. °
Man student: work with Italian boys in gym-
nasium, 7 :30 to 10:30.

Students, Hand Picked

The group of men and women who made up
this class were selected from 200 applicants be-
cause of their scholastic, athletic, and leadership
records. They came from the following colleges;
some institutions sending as many as three stu—
dents: Purdue, Dennison, Illinois Wesleyan,
Penn College, Western Tennessee State Teachers
College, Cornell University, State Teachers Col-
lege at Superior, Wisconsin; Indiana University,
Centenary College, Ohio Northern, University of
Minnesota, Massachusetts Agricultural College,
College of the Ozarks, Illinois State Normal
University, George Peabody Teachers College,
Springhill College, North Dakota Agricultural
College, Mississippi State Normal College and
New York University.

During the 34 weeks course at the school, stu-
dents were given an intensive practical ground-
ing in such mental attitudes and information as
are essential in the preparation for recreatiOn

.leadership. The course is briefly described as

follows:

Games: How to lead and teach games for all
ages.

Athletics: Emphasis upon learning, organizing,
and conducting sports,—basketball, baseball, soc-
cer, volley ball.

Social Recreation: Planning recreation pro-
grams for churches, clubs, neighborhood groups,
industrial groups, picnics, and community gather-
ings.

Community Music: Training in appreciation,
song leading, use of introductory instruments,
organization of choruses, bands and orchestras.

Community Drama: Emphasis upon simpler
forms including story-telling, charades, panto-

237

238 NATIONAL RECREATION SCHOOL

mime, pageantry; also play selection and produc-
tion for neighborhood groups; special attention
given to inexpensive methods of producing dra-
matic activities.

Handcraft: How to design and create articles
from wood, paper, wax, and other materials;
toy making, basketry and modeling.

Folk Dancing: Training in various peasant and
national dances; also old American dances.

Nature Study: Nature appreciation, leading
nature hikes, seasonal programs, nature resources
of the community.

Camping: Choosing sites, planning equipment,
organizing program, securing leadership for out-
of-doors camps.

S pecial Activities: Training in use of special-
ized programs such as Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
Camp Fire Girls, etc.

Reading: Selecting proper reading lists for
various age groups; relationship of recreation
workers to libraries. °

Girls’ Problems: Adaptation of recreation ac-
tivities to meet the special needs for girls and
women.

Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs: Principles of organ-
izing and conducting boys’ and girls’ clubs and
their use in-a recreation program.

Home Recreation: Service of the recreation
department to homes in training parents for home
play; selection of material and building of simple
equipment. .

Program Making: How to build and develop
a recreation program to serve all groups in the
community with a variety of activities through-
out the year; discussion on balancing the pro-
gram.

Community Centers: The use of schools and
community buildings as recreation centers; prob-
lems of programs and administration.

Play in Institutions: How to provide recrea-
tion programs and leadership for institutions in-
cluding orphanages, hOSpitals, prisons, asylums
and homes for the aged.

Play Facilities: Layout of
athletic fields, construction of
buildings and swimming and
wading pools, equipping play-
grounds and gymnasiums and
other play centers.

Park Recreation Problems:
Securing land, adapting for
recreation use, administrative
problems. gram.

Of interest to Teachers.

The September issue of "Recreation"
will be of special interest to school
superintendents and teachers. School
Play will be the general theme of this
issue, and there will be a number of
articles on play in the school pro-

S/Jecial Celebrations: Programs for holidays,
old home week, festivals, etc.

City Government Problems: Discussion of
laws and the procedure of municipal departments
responsible for recreation.

Problems of Recreation Finance: Budget mak-
ing; how to secure funds for recreation; public
and private support; concessions, charges and
other income-producing methods.

Publicity Problems: Interpreting the program
to the public through the press, pamphlets, re-
ports, bulletins, radio, pictures, stunts, speaking,
and other forms of publicity.

Field Problems: A discussion led by field
workers of actual current problems being faced.

Colored Communities: Discussion of ways of
serving colored groups.

Personnel Problems: Securing and training
staff workers and volunteers; salaries, hours of
work, contracts, promotions, vacations, sick
leaves, etc.

Character Building Problems: Analysis and
discussion of character values in play activities;
how to relate play to the building of character.

Problems in Cooperation: Discussion of other
agencies and how to work with and through them
in the community.

Surveys: How to obtain essential facts about
a community as a basis for conducting recreation
activities.

School Recreation Problems: Discussion of
Special problems involved both when the recrea-
tion of a city is c0nducted by the school board
and when school property and personnel are used
by agencies other than the school board.

Organization and Administration: A complete
picture of the responsibilities of a superintendent
of recreation and a discussion of the executive
and administrative problems arising out of the
conduct of a community-wide recreation pro-
gram.

Nature and Function of Play: Discussion of
the theories of ‘play; values
of play in individual and
community life.

Local Special Problems:
Discussion of current recrea-
tion problems that come to
the Association by mail and
personal inquiry; these ques-
tions cover the whole field of
play and recreation.

NATIONAL RECREATION SCHOOL 239

Faculty

In organizing the faculty for the National
Recreation School a special effort has been made
to secure individuals who have been or at the
present time actually are engaged in some form
of recreation leadership. It is felt that this meth-
od enables the School to keep very close to the
needs of the communities into which students
will be sent for employment. A continuous ef-
fort is made to bring. before the students leaders
who have vital messages and practical contribu—
tions to make. Each year a number of recreation
executives lecture and lead discussions of current
recreation problems.

Faculty: Among the faculty and special lec-
turers at the School are Alfred G. Arvold,
founder of the Little Country Theatre, Agricul-
tural College, Fargo, North Dakota; Mary T.
Bliven, principal, Model Kindergarten, Heckscher
Foundation, New York City; William Burdick,
M.D., director, Playground Athletic League, Inc.,
Baltimore, Maryland; Mary Gould Davis, super—
visor of storytelling, New York Public Library;
Dorothy Enderis, assistant to superintendent in
charge of Extension Department, Milwaukee
Public Schools; Charles H. English, executive
secretary, Playground Association of Philadel-
phia; Lee F. Hanmer, Ph.B., director, Recrea-
tion Department, Russell Sage Foundation, New
York City; George Hjelte, B.A., superintendent
of recreation, Westchester County_ Recreation
Commission; George E. Johnson, A.B., A.M.,
Graduate School of Education, Harvard Univer-
sity; Joseph Lee, LL.D., president, N.R.A.; Jay
B. Nash, Ph.D., professor of physical education
and health, New York University; A. E. Metz-
dorf, M.P.E., Rochester, New York; Captain
Charles Scully, American Red Cross; Charles
F. Smith, B.Sc., Columbia University; A. D.
Taylor, B.S., M.S., landscape architect, Cleve—
land, Ohio; William G. Vinal, Ph.D., pro-
fessor of nature education, School of Education,
Western Reserve University; Eva Whiting
White, B.A., director, Elizabeth Peabody House,

Boston, Massachusetts, and members of the staff
of the N.R.A. '

Graduates Successful

What are the types of positions which the
available men and women of the class are pre—
pared to fill? The question may in part be

answered from the experience of previous classes.
The latter have gone directly from the school
into the following types of positions: superin-
tendency in small cities; assistant director, direc-
tor of girls’ work, director’of activities in settle-
ments, director of social centers, community
house director, and county director of 4H Clubs.
Some members of the class are especially adapted
to rural recreation work.

The National Recreation Association stands
behind the graduates of the school in fitting them
for the exacting duties of recreation leadership
for which for nine months’ hard work they were
pointing. The graduates have revealed their re—
sourcefulness in communities throughout the
major part of the United States. Communica-
tions from those interested in considering em—
ployment of workers, should be sent to Miss
Leah Chubbuck, Personnel Department, National
Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

York City.

Plans for 1932

It is the hope of the Association to make the
School opening in September, 1932, as largely
as possible a school for men and women who
have had a college training or its equivalent,
who have served in recreation systems and who
desire a postgraduate year of studymmen and
women who will, after a year’s study, return to
the same recreation systems in which they have
formerly worked.

If it is found that a very large proportion of
the 1932 School can be made up of experienced
recreation workers, a special effort will be made
to adapt the course somewhat to the needs of
the particular workers who are studying at the
School. It is possible the Association may be
successful in arranging for certain paid practical
work in New York City for the students of this
particular school, as has been done in other
years. At the same time it is the belief that the
smaller the amount of time taken up in practical
work, the greater the time free for reading,
study and preparation, and the hope is that stu—
dents coming to this School will not be over-
burdened by trying to carry too much practical
work.

It is requested that any worker wishing to
attend the School notify the Association by De—
cember 1, 1931, if possible.

Will R. Reeves
Director of Public Recreation

Cincinnati, Ohio

ment that Will R. Reeves, superintendent of

recreation in Cincinnati, found in it values
which challenged his versatile talents, his rare abil-
ity, his brilliant mind, and his whole-hearted devo-
tion. In his death on June fifth the City of Cin-
cinnati lost a public servant whose place will not
easily be filled, and the national recreation move-
ment a worker whose contribution, through the
experiments successfully carried on locally and his
written word, was of nation-wide import.

In 1919 Will Reeves was employed as a com-
munity song leader in War Camp Community
Service. A few months later he went to Cincin-
nati where he organized Community Service. mak-
ing it an important factor in the city’s life. In
1927, through his efforts, the Public Recreation
Commission was organized to take over the work
'of Community Service and to make possible the
enlarged program which his vision pictured.

All matters which concerned the welfare of the
community were of interest to him, and he some-
how found time to serve as a director of the
Travelers Aid Society and to work on many civic
and philanthropic committees. He was organist
of the Seventh Presbyterian Church of which he
was a member.

W'ill Reeves’ rare ability as a musician brought
to the Cincinnati recreation program cultural
values which have set a high standard. If he had
done nothing but organize the Mothersingers, he
would have made an enviable contribution. But
he was never satisfied with what he had done and
was constantly pushing on to new goals. Knowing
full well the danger of overstrain to his heart—-
and for years he had fought ill health—he forged
ahead carrying a terrific load. “Go slow?” he
said characteristically in answer to the doctor’s
plea that he work in moderation. “I want to live.
Mere existence is no good whatever to me. I
have no interest in cautious vegetation.”

And so Will Reeves lived, fully and richly, and

died as he would have desired, working to the end.

I T is a tribute to the entire recreation move-

240

Margaret McKee

Superintendent of Recreation

Des Moines, Iowa

N Monday afternoon. June eighth, the
0 Des Moines City Hall was closed for the

afternoon while a city paid tribute
to a woman who had served it for twenty—two
years, first as director of physical education in
the public schools, and since 1929 as superinten-
dent of recreation.

That vivid, lovable personality that was Mar-
garet McKee has gone. But the leadership she
gave, the influence she exerted on thousands of
boys and girls, the sportsmanship she taught and
lived, have stamped themselves ineffaceably upon
the city’s life.

On the page of a book found in Margaret
McKee’s home desk, is a pencilled notation——
“Keep your shoulders to the wheel, instead of
your back to the wall.” And here is written the
secret of her rich life whose crowning glory was
the heroism of its closing.

\Vhen Margaret McKee was told by her physi-
cians three years and a half ago that she was suf-
fering from a rare disease which was incurable.
and that she had only a few more years to live.
she resolved not to “burden” her friends with the
facts, as she eXpressed it, and so well did she
guard her secret that her closest friends were un-
aware of the situation. She trained every effort
on making the most of the time left her. Her
work absorbed her, and every moment which was
not spent in fighting the loss of physical vitality
which her illness entailed, was devoted to the serv-
ice of the recreation movement in Des Moines.
When at last, a few weeks before her death, she
was forced to take a leave of absence, she ar-
ranged for her assistant to visit her every evening
to talk over the day’s work, to make new plans.
Until the day before her death she worked for the
movement for which she cared so deeply.

Margaret McKee has gone. A city mourns her
passing. Scores of recreation workers and physi-
cal educators in all parts of the county will miss
her, but the memory of her life and her indomit-
able courage will never die.

RECREATION

The World at Play is published each month to keep you in
touch with new devel0pments everywhere. It is a coopera-
tive undertaking. “Recreation” urges all its readers to send in
items regarding recreational happenings in their communities

 

World at Play

The Rec—

reation De-
partment of
Sacramento,
California, conducts a novel ac-
tivity in a fishing contest for boys
and girls under sixteen years of
age. The requirements for this
year’s contest, which was held
on May 2nd, were that fisher-
men must furnish their own
poles, lines and baits, and that
catches must be reported to the
official scorer at the club house.
Awards were given for the first
sunfish caught, the first crappie,
the first bass, the largest fish, and the smallest
fish. Bring your lunch and enjoy the day at the
park,” was the invitation issued.

A Fishing
Contest

 

ESCANABA, Michigan, is
seeking to make a record for
itself in the building of a
golf course on the basis of
strict economy. A farm was purchased for $2,000
'which is to be paid for in five years. Greens
have been built at the low cost of $100 apiece,
and seven fairways are now ready. The club,
popularly known as the “Poor Man’s Golf Club”
is composed of 150 members who pay an initia-
tion fee of $25 and annual dues of $15.

A “Poor Man’s
Golf Club”

THE Garden Division of the
Detroit, Michigan, Depart-
ment of Recreation last year

had more than 2,000 children
enrolled in 88 clubs, every member of which

planned and cultivated a garden. Four acres

Gardening in
Detroit

 

of land were cultivated at a cost of $1,503.27
and the value'of the produce raised was $4,147.
Approximately 4,000 quarts of fruits and vegee
tables were canned in the canning classes main-
tained by the Department.

THE Playgrounds Associan
tion of Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania, has isued its 1930
report in unusually attractive
form. The review of the year’s work begins with
the challenge: “Shall we make children pay in the
present emergency by neglecting their present
needs for safe play spaces, for vigorous, outdoor,
healthful activity, and for protection from the
environmental influences which may later lead
them into delinquency and crime?”

“To my mind,” states Honorable John  Fo-
garty, Mayor of Yonkers, New York, in the 1930
Report of the Community Service Commission,
“recreation ranks in importance with public
health and education, and it is to better recrea-

241

Annual
Reports

242 IVORLD AT PLA Y

 

Singing Games and Folk

Dances

Ideal Playground Material
by NEVA L. Born

You will Find in these campilations by Neva L.
Boyd, who has worked in coo eration with native
teachers of dancing and lo lore, a wealth of
fascinating material that will be invaluable to you
this summer and long afterward. Each book con-
tains illustrations, detailed diagrams or directions,
and words and music to accompany the action.

Old English and American Games. 40 singing ames
including Maypole dances fer older children. 313?.

Folk Games and Gymnastic Play. 28 singing games, 6
gymnastic games and a system of exercises. For young
children or older groups. $1.25.

Folk Games of Denmark and Sweden. 41 singin ames
or folk dances. More than half are for young c iiihen;
the rest for older groups or adults.

Folk Dance: of Bohemia and Moravia. 33 dances with
songs for elementary, high school or adult groups. $1.25.

Write for leafiet containing detailed descriptions of
books, and catalogs of Fit281mons Operettas, _can-
tatas and octavo music for community activities.

H. T. FITZSIMONS COMPANY
Dept. L, 23 East Jackson Blvd., Chicago

As playground e q u i p tn e n t goes,
"CHICAGO" Equipment qualities as
special—better than the accepted "stock"

standards. It has refinements, design
improvements, a sturdiness, a quality in materials and
of workmanship not found in the “general run" muipment.

The slightly higher prices of "CHICAGO" Equipment
are more than justified on a business basis by the longer,
safer, more satisfactory service this equipment gives.

Chicago Gymnasium Equipment Co.
1835 w. Lake 5:. CHICAGO, U. s. A.
1”» “CHICAGO”

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

Catalog "B"

//

 

tion facilities that I pledge myself.” The report
outlines the development of the movement in
Yonkers during the past sixteen years and tells
of the varied activities conducted in 1930.

The annual report of the Westchester County,
New York, Recreation Commission for 1930 has
appeared. In its gay cover and attractive illus-
trations the report covers most effectively the
spirit of creative play which the many and varied
activities of the Commission are fostering.

The 1930 report of the Public Recreation
Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio, gives a vivid
picture of the many activites of the Commisson.
In his letter of transmittal, Will R. Reeves, super-
intendent of recreation, traces developments, ex-
plains budget expenditures, and analyzes the
needs still to be met. (Additional c0pies of this
report are available at the ofhce of the N. R. A.,
and may be secured on request. Postage 4 cents.)

Another Home Playground Campaign!—
Cambridge, Massachusetts, is the most recent city
to announce a home playground campaign. From
May 9th to June 20th the Recreation Division
of the Park Department conducted a contest
which was judged in accordance with the follow-
ing standards: (a) By whom designed and con-
structed? (by boy, girl, children and parents);
(b) construction and design (strength, workman-
ship, appearance, usefulness) ; (c) cost (low cost
to be preferred); ((1) originality (in materials
and equipment; in construction; in preservation
of space). Suggestions were offered for such
equipment as swings, sand box, play benches and
seats, ladder, slide, horizontal bar, shelter or play
house, basketball goal. “The appearance of any
backyard playground," states the circular issued,
“is improved by planning vines along the fences.
The scarlet runner or similar vine is suggested.”

Boys’ Day in Recreation.—The hnal event.
of Boys’ Week in Los Angeles, California, known
as “Boys’ Day in Recreation," provided fathers
and sons with an unusual opportunity to take
part as team mates, as rivals, or as companions.
Some of the events of the day were semi-final
junior Olympic meets in eight districts; the Los
Angeles city high school track meet at the Coli-
seum; a night miniature aircraft meet and model
plane demonstration; several organized and in-
formal hikes into the mountains; an all day out-
of—doors observance at the municipal boys' camp;
a minor sports carnival in archery, golf, tennis.
and other sports; father and son horseshoe

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY 243

SATISFACTORY PARK
RECREATION DEPENDS
UPON PROPER

PLAY EQUIPMENT

American playground equipment assures safe recre-
ation for thousands of youngsters the country over.
The American line is complete—swings, teter-toters,
slides, see-saws, ocean waves and scores of other
devices from which you may select proper play
devices for your parks and playgrounds.

Every piece of this equipment is built by an or-
ganization with years of experience in building re-
liable and dependable play equipment. Permit
American engineers to help you plan your play-
ground. They will gladly submit suggestions with
no obligations on your part except serious con-
sideration for what they have to offer. Catalog
available upon request.

 

AIIERKAI‘I PINGIOUIID

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.
' ANDERSON, INDIANA

  

tournaments; swimming, boating and boat races;
free use of the municipal bath house at Venice
Beach; the finals of the city-wide contests among
boys, and many neighborhood events at municipal
and school playgrounds throughout the city.

Hiking on a Large Scale—Six hundred De-
troit, Michigan, boys trudged through the forests
of River Rouge Park in their annual Easter va- 1’ I
cation hikes. During the entire morning numer- 1'    
ous bands, led by leaders from the Department C
of Recreation, wound their way through the carts
woods. .At noon they made camp fires and Very Strongly construct_
cooked luncheon. In the afternoon, John  ed 01' heavy Planks bolted

. . . . . . together and faced With
ConSIdme, superwsor of boys’ activmes, pre- heavy iron. Cast iron stake

sented thirty—five medals. Fifteen bronze medals hold?!" in center With Prop-
er pitch to the stake, can-

 

went to youths who made five of the pilgrimages;  nt work loose. Painted with. rust
ten of silver were given the boys who hlked for igd krgtd prevent:tlrlvi. dSllilipged
more than six months. Others were gold medals 0° fa ,°“’“ W“ 0 es 1" e '

, Eas1ly installed. Conform to all
presented to boys who had more than a year 3 requirements of National Horseshoe
experience, Pitching Association.

Write for Details
A Baseball Pitching Contest.——About 4,000 DIAMOND CAI-K HORSESHOE C0.
boys from 40 municipal playgrounds in L03 4510 Grand Ave-r Duluth, Minn-

Angeles, California, took part in the preliminary
baseball pitching contests held in that city, which

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

HOLINONE
The New Golf Cup

 

Pat. l’endlnx

For use on playgrounds —
lawns — backyards — beaches

—camps and on picnics and out-
ings. HOLINONE can be pressed

down in the ground with your
foot eliminating the digging of
1 holes and destroying grass.

Regulation size and made of
iron.

You can now include Golf in
your recreation program and
also in your recreation kits.

Write for Particulars to

HOLINONE COMPANY
P. O. Box No. 5 Kew Gardens, N. Y. |

The

magazine in the world.

most interesting

v,

100 pages of news, information, and

pictures about all sorts
of hobbies.

2,

Subscription $1.00 per year
Sample copy 10c.

a

Lightner Publishing Company
2810 Michigan Ave.
Chicago

 

[WORLD A T PLA Y

consisted of pitching baseballs through a spe-
cially constructed wooden frame for the purpose
of registering the largest number of strikes. The
80 junior and senior champions from the play
centers later competed in the finals. These 80
boys and 800 others who ranked at the head of
their individual playgrounds were the guests of
the Wrigley Field Management at a league game.

A Marble Tournament in Elmira.——This
year the Recreation Commission of Elmira, New
York, had three classifications for the city-wide
marble tournament held March 23rd to April 2nd
—one for boys from the first to the fourth grades;
one for boys from the fifth to the eighth grades;
and the third for girls of grammar school age.
The tournament was held in ten different: sec-
tions of the city and at the end of the tourna-
ment the sectional championships played to de-
termine the champion for the district. Twice as
many competed this year as last.

New Facilities in Sacramento.—Sacramento,
California, is to have three new play areas and
a new tennis court and golf house. The exist-
ing golf courses are to be remodeled and $2,000
worth of improvements will be made at the men’s
center. The music week program promoted by
the City Recreation Department was unusually
successful. One of the large events for the week
was an old time dancing party in the Memorial
Auditorium, open to all members of groups who
enjoy old time dances.

Garden Theaters.—Groups interested in de-
veloping outdoor theatres will find in Notes on
Garden Theaters by Albert D. Taylor a valuable
source of information. The article appears in
the April, 1931, issue of Landscape Architecture,
copies of which may be secured from the Land-
scape Architecture Publishing Company, 9 Park
Street, Boston, Massachusetts, for 75 cents.

A May Day Pageant in Santa Barbara.—
One of the most delightful features of the huge
May Day pageant, a California fairy tale, pre-
sented by the school children of Santa Barbara,
California, was the evident joy with which the
children—and more than 1,700 of them took
part—participated in the colorful festival. Pupils,
teachers and parents worked for weeks in prep-
aration for the pageant, making the beautiful cos-
tumes which the art department of the schools
designed, rehearsing the dances and pantomimes,

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY

and practising the music. An orchestra of sixty
musicians from two of the high schools furnished
the music for the pageant which was directed by
W. H. Orion, city recreation director. It was
staged as a culmination of the semester’s work in
art, home economics, industrial education, music,
and physical education.

A Pageant of Mass Drills.—A remarkable
demonstration of mass drills was held in Macon,
Georgia, April 18th, in connection with the sixty-
sixth annual convention of the Georgia Education
Association. Six thousand pupils from the gram—
mar and high schools of Bibb County took part.
No teachers appeared on the field during the pres-
entation and the smaller children were in charge
of high school girls.

A Patriotic May Day Celebration.—One of
the largest patriotic meetings ever held at the
Music Grove in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, took
place on May 3rd when 20,000 people gathered
for the eleventh annual meeting of Brooklyn
Citizens’ Patriotic May Day qelebration. A
program of addresses and music, provided in
part by the New York Fire Department band,
proved of great interest to the huge audience.

A Sports Carnival in Oakland—\Vith the
marchers clad in uniform and bearing trophies,
the eleventh annual Sports Carnival of the In-
dustrial Athletic Association of Greater Oakland,
California, was held on April 25th in the mu—
nicipal auditorium. Brilliantly decorated floats by
member firms followed the parade of champion-
ship teams, and afterward a series of nine sport
events furnished thrills aplenty for the 10,000
spectators in the arena.

Each year a novelty event is offered. This
year an indoor baseball game on roller skates

BEFORE BUILDING on RESURFACING YOUR

TENNIS COURT

CONSULT Us ABOUT

 

%

C’e‘mFRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the den-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectiver ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347 cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor
season on your playgrounds.

Send today for full information
and booklet No. 1159.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
 ,2. Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufac.
§< tured by The Solvay Process Company
6] Broadway New York

0 LVAY

 

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM

CHLORIDE

FLAKE—77%—80%

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

 

 

 

 

246 WORLD AT PLAY

Playground
Equipment

HAPPY DAYS

Teeter-tottcr-Swinga Something new, Row Boat Swings alao
new, Merry-go-Rounda, Giant Strides, 3 and 6 swing aeta.

Write for Catalogue to

J. J. FRANK : :

KENDALL

COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Formerly Chicago Normal School of Pkysical Education

Be a director of Physical Education. playground lupervlaor, danclnz teacher,
or awimmlnz instructor. Two-year diploma and three-year B.P.E. courses
for young women hizh achool graduates. Accredited. Free appointment
bureau. Faculty 0! trained specialists. Complete equipment. Fine
dormitories. Cataloz.

FALL TERM SEPTEMBER 14th

Furious MUISELMAN, Principal, 5026 Greenwood Ave.
Chicano. Illinois

Maquoketa, IOWA

 

Box 571

 

o we—ro-M-(ch

Durcnrrun vacation play round for youn
women at Powers Lake. \ isconsin. All Ian
and water sports. .English hockey coach.’ Danish
gymnastics. Free instruction. P ay or just rut.
deal environment, comfortable accommodation,
excellent food. uly 16 to Sept. 1. For infor-
mation add-res: ccretary,

Box 671. 5026 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, Ill.

     
       
         
   

' . . Standing on

COMMON GROUND

Recreation and physical education have always
been interrelate , interdependent.

Problems in one field are of immediate con'
cern to workers in the other.

The contribution of the Journal of Health
and Physical Education is this-——it gives you
that very important side of our work to
which you yourself have not t e time to de'
vote suiiicient study.

The experiences of others help you solve difo
ficult problems.

New games; problems of administration; arti’
cles on swimming, diving, canoeing, hiking,
demonstrations, etc.; all appear from time to
time in “Health and Physical Education."

The subscription price is $2.00 a year. If
you are not acquainted with the Journal, send
for a sample copy, which you may obtain
without obligation. Please address Dept. C.

THE JOURNAL OF
HEALTH AND PHYSICAL

EDUCATION ” * '-
Box 362, Ann Arbor, Mich. I I

was the unique event. The high light of the oc-
casion, however, came when 24 teams, 12 of men
and 12 of women, took the floor for volley ball
games played simultaneously. Other activities
on the program included women’s baseball, stunt
relays, and basketball; men’s relays, basketball
and soccer. Since the Recreation Department of
Oakland entered the industrial field twelve years
ago to stimulate the recreation program for em-
ployed workers of the city, great progress has
been made. Sixty-eight firms are now repre-
sented in the association with 30,000 participating

members.

A Robin Hood Frolic.—For the third suc-
cessive year men and women employed in Los
Angeles, California, industries took part in the
annual municipal Robin Hood festival, a May
Day revel on Nottingham Green. Approximately
500 participated in the festival which presented
colorful folk dances of the period, music, and
choral selections.

American Country Life Conference. —-
From August 17th to 20th the American Country
Life Association will hold its fourteenth annual
conference at Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York. The topic will be Rural Government, and
it will be the purpose of the 1931 gathering to
consider the status and functions of rural gov-
ernment in all parts of the United States and the
most promising means whereby the services of
local governments through the rural population
may be improved. Further information may be
secured from the headquarters of the Association,

105 East 22nd Street, New York.

“The Childi‘ét of America today are asking the

question, ‘What shall I do next ?’ ‘What shall I
do next?’ because their parents are asking at the
same time, ‘Where do we go from here?’

“The under-privileged child is the child whose
father answers the question, ‘What shall we do
next?’ by giving him a dollar for a mechanical
toy, or twenty-five cents to go to the movies.

“The privileged child is the child whose father
puts in his hands the tools to do his own work,
to make his own radio, to carry on with something
that is of interest, to form his own entertain-
ment.”——Dr. William Mather Lewis, President
Lafayette University, in Citizenship, Kiwanis

Magazine, September, 1930. 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

CONSIDER THE POLLYWOG 247

Consider the Pollywog
(Continued from page 207)

that a child——every childnpassionately wants

to do he had better do it as it is unlikely

that he will otherwise come out alive. The human
embryo goes through many phases that seem to
have no relation to its grown-up life, but I suspect
that if those phases were left out the child would
never be quite born, or that it would be a misfor-
tune if he were. .

Let us learn wisdom of the pollywog. Stanley
Hall tried many experiments with pollywogs, of
which the most interesting was that of cutting off
their tails and seeing what effect it had upon their
later life. One might fancy that the frog, hav—
ing no tail, gains nothing much from exercising
the tail with which he started; he cannot continue
to be skillful with a member which is no longer
there. And yet it turned out in Dr. Hall’s experi-
ment that the pollywogs that had not mastered the
technique of the tail never developed the legs to
which they were entitled. Nature, it would seem,
has in mind a sequence in the lessons which she
gives and prefers that the course shall be fol—
lowed as she planned it.

As to how a permanent benefit can follow from
a course of training that in its direct result leads
nowhere, I suspect the explanation is that when
a child has strenuously followed in a course which
Nature cries upon him to pursue, whether it has a
definitely practical outlook or not, he at least has
lived. His action has proceeded from the depths,
has called out all the strength and spirit he had
in him and accordingly will leave behind it, not a
special skill but greater strength and spirit for
all purposes. He will be not merely a better
climber but a better man.

A Stay-at-Home Camp
(Continued from page 213)

“Songs of the Open Road” by Walt Whitman

“Walden” by Henry B. Thoreau

“Little Rivers” by Henry Van Dyke

“Joys of the Road” by Bliss Carman

“Handbook Of Nature Study” by A. G.
Comstock

“Kettles and Campiires”——Girl Scouts of
America

“Campfires and Camp Cookery”-—-Boy Scouts
of America.

 

HOW MUCH
DO YOU CARE

about Schools and
Children?

The Progressive Education As-
sociation translates your interest
into service for your child, for
your school, for your community.

No matter what helpful serv—
ice other organizations render, it

is the ONE which asks and an-
swers these questions:

What IS real education? \

How can it be secured for
the children of today and
tomorrow?

/

PROGRESSIVE EDUCA-
TION, the monthly organ of the

Association, interprets this move-
ment in education to the public.

You DO care about schools

and children———can you af-
ford tO keep out of the' cur-
rent Of-this movement?

Membership in the Progressive.
Education Association, with its
many personal services, and an
annual subscription to PRO-
GRESSIVE EDUCATION,
means only $3.00 in money . . .
but a great deal in personal sat-
isfaction both to you and to us.
Will you come along? Note the
SPECIAL OFFER in the at-

tached coupon.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
716 Jackson Place

Washington, D. C.

Dept. W.

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Please enroll me as a subscribing-member of the

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION, my subscription to expire October, 1932.
Enclosed is my check for $3.00. It is understood
that I am to receive the May, 1931, issue, and
one previous issue free of charge.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

A ddress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

248 HERE COMES THE CIRCUS!

 

TENNIS NETS

.— also .—
Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

5]] Sport Nets

This house has long

been headquarters

 

 

for all the above.

l w. A. AUGUR

| 35 Fulton Street NewYork I

F LEX-I-DRY TENNIS COURTS

PATENTS PENDING

In getting away from the expensive
and unsatisfactory clay courts it is
not necessary to overlook the players’
welfare.

We give you a permanent court with
absolutely no upkeep expense and yet
more resilient than any, excepting turf.

The following features are guar-
anteed.

Very inexpensive

Quick installation

Great resiliency

Triple the playing hours
Immediate use after rain
Frost proof (winter playing)
No upkeep expense.

Illustrated booklet on request.

FRANKLIN KANE COMPANY

31 Sanford Street Springfield, Mass.

 

Here Comes the Circus!
(Continued from page 220)

gives up the search and makes an exit. The sec-
ond clown continues to search. He finally finds
and picks up a small box which, when opened, ex-
plodes. He screams and rushes out. Cap boxes
of this type can be procured at any novelty store.

Clown. Wrestling. The ringmaster announces
a wrestling match between Fall-on-Nutsky, who
bows to the ground, and Mr. Nobody. Mr. No-

body of course isn’t there at all. The match starts,

the one clown sparring for a hold on his imaginary
opponent. A wrestling match is simulated some-
thing like shadow boxing. The one clown is
finally flung to the ground, makes a bridge, suc-
ceeds in getting up and is apparently caught in a
half-Nelson, and finally has his shoulders pinned
to the mat. The ringmaster holds up Mr. No-
body’s hand and declares him the winner.

Something Old! Something New!
(Continued from page 226)

For example, let us take the Holland \Veek.
The Holland Club, organized several years ago in
connection with the department’s activities, will
be asked to sponsor the week’s features, and the
programs for this type of week will be developed
along the following lines:

A! onday

Adult talent in song and dances
Tuesday—Story Night

1. Stories of Holland by children and adults

2. Children’s Theatre
i Dramatization of stories involving pup-

petry, shadowgraphs and pantomime

3. “Singout”

W ednesday—Games Festival
Gymnastic Circus, novelty athletics, games of
Holland demonstration
Thursday—Special Feature Program
Twenty special features have become estab-
lished parts of the playground program
Friday—Holland Festival and Exhibit

1. Handcraft Exhibit

2. Characteristic program of singing games,

folk dances, toy orchestra and music

While the nationality theme is being carried out
as indicated, other features not related to this
development will be continued as rather perma-
nent parts of the season’s program. These fea-

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

AMONG OUR FOLKS 249

HANDICRAFT WITH YARNS

TTRACTIVE
Designs and
Projects. Practical,
popular, and very
inexpensive.

Used by Handicraft

teachers every-
where. Write for
free illustrated cata-
logue.

“Pepperell” Yarns
excel

PEPPERELL BRAIDING COMPANY, Dept. R, East Pepperell, Mass.

 

tures are the Baby Show, Barefoot Boy Day,
Broomstick Derby, Dress Up Party, Wheeling
Party, Tin Can Derby, Pet Show, Circus, Bubble
Party, Rodeo, Story Book Party, Freckles Day,
Beach Exposition (sandcraft), Pirates Play Hour,
Fortune Hunt, Drug Majors’ Contest, Buddie
Day, Doll Party, Knight of Magic, the final indi—
vidual playground festival and the city-wide fes—
tival. For the most part, these features are a
development of the low organized game period.
One or more of these features are part of each
week’s program throughout the season. A definite
assignment of these features is made at the start of
the season so that they might be well prepared for
and well organized.

With constructive planning it is believed that
the coming playground season will profit from all
other phases of the Recreation Division’s activi—
ties. The cooperating groups and organizations
will likewise be profiting from added activity and
will secure greater community recognition. In
general the city should enjoy a type of community
program with children’s work on the playgrounds
as a basis but with a great number of opportuni-
ties of adult participation and cooperation.

Swimming Programs
(Continued from page 231)

students who received the benefit of the campaign.
The total number of lessons given in the four
weeks was 5,405.
The directors of the various pools voted the
(Continued on page 250)

Among Our Folks

MISS MARY L. FLYN N, recreation direc—

tor of Chester County, Pennsylvania, is

on a six months’ leave of absence to serve
on Governor Pearson’s staff as organizer of the
Department of Community Activities in the Vir-
gin Islands.

W. A. Hansen, who has been appointed director
of recreation for Meadville, Pennsylvania, took up
his work there in May. Mr. Hansen was former—

ly director of recreation for Chambersburg, Penn—
sylvania.

Lakeland, Florida, is continuing the work of
the Recreation Department under the direction of
Mr. W. W. Alderman, recently appointed superin—
tendent of recreation.

Mr. Sylvester McCauley, of Dubuque, Iowa,
has been appointed director of recreation for that
city to succeed Mr. Bernard M. Joy.

The work of the newly organized Recreation
Department of Bismarck, North Dakota, has been
placed under the direction of Mr. John W. Reel,

formerly director of recreation for Fort Myers,
Florida.

Mrs. Susie Root Rhodes, who for many years
served as supervisor of playgrounds, Government
of the District of Columbia, has resigned. Miss
Sibyl Baker, Director of the Community Center
Department, Public Schools of the District of
Columbia, has been appointed as Mrs. Rhodes’
successor.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers:

250

SWIMMING PROGRAM

mThe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the.pages

of “Southern City." “A

AAAHere you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future
activities.

SOUTHEIQ IN

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

 

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

week a complete success. Increased attendance
was noted, a check on attendance records taken
during and after the week’s activities, showing
that the attendance in the municipal pools umped
approximately 50 per cent, while that at the large
private pool jumped 30 per cent. Spectators made
many favorable comments. The best result, how-
ever, was the enjoyment of those who actually
participated.

There is every reason, C. P. L. Nichols, Super-
visor of Aquatics in Los Angeles, points out why
campaigns of this type, provided proper coordina-
tion exists between schools and playgrounds,
should be carried on in every city in which schools
do not possess adequate swimming pool equip-
ment. That it has a positive effect on the attend-
ance at the pools is evidenced by the fact that each
individual who learns to swim is a prospective
patron at the school for at least ten years.

Leathercraft
(Continued from page 236)

title of occupational therapy has been found of
real curative value in occupying the mind, and it
has a tonic effect especially on those whose re-
sources are being unduly tapped by enforced idle-
ness. The method of teaching leathercraft in our
local hospital does not vary greatly from that used
on the playgrounds. The patients are transient;
rarely does any one able to sit up to work stay in
the hospital more than a week. This necessitates
the use of quickly completed, simple projects, such
as billfolds, purses, picture frames and belts. The
interest is so keen that although two hours a day
are allotted to this portion of the day’s schedule,
the patients will, unless stopped, take the materials
with them to their wards and continue to work.
The finished products are displayed in cases and
find a ready sale both in the hospitals and local
department stores, some of the work being done to
order.

In one of the hospitals the work is done by
adults and children; in another, by children alone.
In the case of the adults, leathercraft is the sole
craft taught. The children are given more variety.

Leathercraft is not only an excellent medium
for training the mind and hand in groups, large
or small, but it is a fascinating hobby for the
individual looking for something different and

creative.

Please mention Rncnn'rlon when writing advertisers

BOOK REVIEWS

Book Reviews

EDUCATION AND LEISURE. Edited by S. E. Lang, M.A.
J. M. Dent and Sons, Ltd., Toronto, Canada. $3.75.

In April, 1929, the Fourth Triennial Conference on
Education was held at Victoria and Vancouver, Canada.
In planning the Conference it was decided that the main
program would fall naturally into six departments—liter-
ature, music and the drama, the cinema, radio, play, and
health, and the Conference was organized with the view
of exploring these six departments in order tO determine
the relation of each and their value in a well ordered
system Of education for leisure. Of special interest is

the address of Sir Rabindranath Tagore, with its flavor.

of the East and its deep understanding of universal needs.
There are many other notable addresses in the book
which represents a rare collection Of articles on various
phases of the leisure time field.

THE VISUAL ARTS IN NEw YORK SETTLEMENTS. Albert
J. Kennedy and Kathryn Farra.

In connection with a study Of the major services of the
80 settlements in New York City being made by the Re—
search Bureau of the Welfare Council, in co-Operation
with the .United States Neighborhood Houses, a survey
has been made of the opportunities offered by the settle—
ments for the cultivation Of appreciation and skill in the
practice of the visual arts. The results of this interest—
ing study have been published in the March issue of
Neighborhood, the Settlement Quarterly, which may be
secured at 50 cents each from Albert J. Kennedy, 101
West 58th Street, New York City.

NATURE GUIDES FOR SCHOOLS, VOLUNTEER ORGANIZA-
TIONS, CAMPS AND CLUBS. Bertha Chapman Cady
and Vernon M. Cady. Published under the auspices
of The Co-ordinating Council on Nature Activities,

by The Slingerland-Comstock Company, Ithaca, New
York. $.10 each.

This interesting series Of guides have to do with stars
and planets, earth and rocks, trees and shrubs, flowering
plants, insects, birds, animals, and salt water life. These
booklets Should be in the recreation worker’s library.

BOOKLIST BOOKS—19.30. A Selection. American Library
Association, Chicago, Illinois. $.65.

Not a Single fairy story appears in the list of books
selected by about twenty children’s librarians on the basis
of their actual popularity for young readers and listed
in the newest booklist of the American Library Associa-
tion. It would be interesting to know whether this is
caused by an increasing taste for realism among little
children or by a lack Of convincing elves and brownies
in the books written for them. The main section of
Bookh'st Books is devoted to about 150 outstanding adult
books of the year selected by votes similar to that taken
by the children’s list.

INDEx TO CHILDREN’S PLAYS. Compiled by Aeola L.

Hyatt. American Library Association, Chicago,
Illinois. $2.50.

The growing recognition of the drama as a vital factor
in the education Of the child is reflected in this index in
which each of the 2,200 plays listed is briefiy described.
Teachers in search of programs for special days or occa-
sions will find here a list Of plays under the days or sub-
jects for which the plays are appropriate. The olays have
also been relisted in three main groups according to the
number of characters required. A number Of books on
plays and play production have been grouped separately.

ANIMAL PETS.—A Study in Character and Nature Edu-
cation. Bertha Chapman 'Cady. Published under the
auSpices of The Co-ordinating Council on Nature

NEWARK

SOMETHING NEW

(1) The IDEAL swing ushers in a new era of

playground deve10pment, embodies every
requisite necessary for wholesome, health-
ful recreation and exercise. Develops the
arms, back and shoulders, never laborious,
just a delightful form of beneficial exercise.
IDEAL swings are kept in motion by the
“pull and push” of the hand bar Operated by
the riders. While coasting hand bar re-
mains in a neutral position or dead center.
Carriage overcomes any tendency of sliding

Off the seat by keeping to a certain angle
while riding.

COSTS LESS PER RIDE

(2) Quadruples capacity Of ordinary swing.

Four can swing where one did before with
absolute safety. For Old and young. Made
of specially designed castings, bearings,
couplings and strongest pipe. Made in
three sizes, #1 accommodates four passen-
gers, #2 eight passengers, and #3 sixteen
passengers.

Write for complete information and illus-
trations of 111113 newest and most fascinating

swing as well as information on other
KIDDIE GYM slides, see saws, cycle
swmgs, gyms, sand boxes.

Address Department R

THE KIDDIE GYM Co., INC.
NEW JERSEY

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

251

 

252 BOOK REVIEWS

Activities, by The Slingerland-Comstock Company,
Ithaca, New York. $.75.

Every child should have a pet. In this booklet Dr.
Cady tells why and points out the value of pets in the
early education of children. A number of interesting
experiences with pets are cited which will be of keen
interest to children.

RAGGEDY ANN'S SUNNY SONGS. Johnny Gruelle and
Will Woodin. Miller Music, Inc., 62 \Vest 45th

Street, New York, 1930. $1.50.

Raggedy Ann and her beloved friends. Andy, Belindy,
Frederika, and Wooden Willie with a knot hole in his
head have joined the ever youthful company Of singers
and persons sung about—Bonnie Prince Charlie, Robin
Hood. Red Riding Hood, Good Queen Bess, and other
illustrious characters. But by the magic of Johnny Gru—
elle’s stories and drawings the always friendly, treat-me-
as-you-please Raggedy Ann has for several years been
one of the special friends of thousands of children. and
now by the grace of a sympathetic composer she is also
among the musically blessed. An especially interesting
thing about this book of sixteen songs is that the com-
poser of the music, Mr. W. H. Woodin, is not a profes-
sional musician but one of our American captains of
industry, being president and director of the American
Car and Foundry Company. It is said that much of the
music was written by him for his own children. This
natural motive for composing is reflected in the Spontane-
ity of the melodies, which are also simple and within
the range of the ordinary child’s voice. The songs are
especially suited to homes, camps, and the more intimate
groups on playgrounds and in other recreation centers.
The drawings in color that accompany each song will
cause many a chuckle among grownups as well as chil-
dren.

NATIONAL SURVEY OF HARMONICA BANDS AND CLASSES.
Published by the National Bureau for the Advance—
ment of Music, 45 \Vest 45th Street, New York.

$.18.

This digest and summary of the experience of indi—
viduals who have been conducting harmonica bands repre-
sents a valuable compilation of opinions. From 43.513 to
45,346 people were reported in 1,287 bands, clubs and
classes. 190 gave it as their experience that the study
of the harmonica leads to the study of more serious
musical instruments; 51 had not found this to be the case,
while 129 failed to answer the question. The question,
“What has been your experience as to the value of the
harmonica ?" brought forth a great preponderance of
favorable reaction.

FOLK-SONGS OF THE FOUR SEASONS: Thirty-three Tradi-
tional Melodies Associated with Festivals and Folk-
ways. Text and Translations by Susanna Myers,
the Harmonization by Harvey Officer. G. Schirmer,
Inc., 3 East 43rd Street, New York, 1929. Price
net, $1.75.

This book does the very interesting thing of relating
folk songs with folk tales and customs in a way that will
make the singing of the songs even more delightful than
it might be otherwise. There is no end of romance in
much of the folk music such as is presented to the extent
of thirty-three songs in this book. Several of the songs,
especially in connection with the legends given of them,
are eSpecially well suited to simple dramatization. The
songs are classified according to seasons, commencing
with the spring and ending with winter. There are May-
Day Songs, Midsummer Eve Songs, Midsummer Fairy
Songs, songs of Hallowe’en and the Harvest, of Market-
Days. Christmas Carols, New Year’s Songs, and a Jewish
carol for the “Feast of Lights.” The nations represented
are France, Italy, Switzerland, Japan, Portugal, Finland,
Norway, Ireland, Czechoslovakia, Jugo-Slavia, the Neth-
erlands, Mexico, China, Russia, Canada and our own

Hopi Indians. This book is heartily recommended to all
persons who love or have to do in any way with simple
singing or folk lore.

MUSIC AND THE OUT-OF-DOORS. Laura Granberry Snow.
Published under the auspices of The Co-ordinating
Council on Nature Activities. by The Slingerland-
Comstock Company, .Ithaca, New York. $2.00.

Music in summer camps for children is important to
their deveIOpment. This book suggests methods and
means of approach to the subject. Of special interest is
a discussion of the music of various nations and tribes,
which gives an excellent idea of the variety of emotional
reaction to music.

TEN FOLK SONGS AND BALLADS. For School, Home and

Camp, E. C. Schirmer Music Company, Boston.
l931.—$.10 a copy or $.12 postpaid.

\Ve have received many requests for copies of a
mimeographed song leaflet which was used at each of
two of the recent National Recreation congresses. Most
of the songs in that leaflet are contained in this new
octavo publication by the E. C. Schirmer Music Com-
pany. The list is as follows: Morning Come: Early,
Alleluia, Tiritomba, Country Dance, Lark in the Morn,
On a Summer Day, The Keeper, The Golden Day is
Dying, The Old Woman and the Peddler, and Summer
I: A-eoming In. Not only the melodies and words are
given but also the piano accompaniments.

In addition to the unison songs like Morning Comer
Early, Alleluia, The Keeper, and On a Summer Day

' that have already become quite widely popular, there are

two songs delightfully arranged for two—part singing,
preferably by treble voices, and one—the well liked Con-
gress song, Tiritomba, with a chorus arranged for simple
four-part singing. Summer I: A—eoming In is the merry
old round that has been sung by all sorts of groups
from modest ones to the most advanced, and the text
of the Old lVoman and the Peddler is a complete little
play that was acted out at the last Congress in Atlantic
City. A. D. ZANzIG

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS
oszru Ln. President
om: H. FINsz. First Vice-President
om: G. \VINAN'r. Second Vice-President
ODn-r Guam. Third Vice-President
Gun-Avon T. Klnv. Treasurer
Howuo S. Buucnn. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. EDqu \V. Bron-u: Carlisle. Pa.
WILuAu Burrnwon-rrt. Moline. Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK Philadelphia. Pa.
Hznnv L. Coum Portland. Ore.
Mas. ARTHUI G. Conun, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tnunu DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I.. N. Y.
Mas. THOMAS A. Emson West Orange. N. J.
om: H. leuv, New York N. Y.

Don FIAYNIL. New York.  Y.
Roan-r GAum. Baltimore. Md.
Mas. CHAILEI A. Gooowm. Hartford. Conn.
Ausrm E. Cunt-ms. Seattle. Wash.
WILLIAM HAL: HAxxsts. New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
Mas. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City. Ind.
Mas. FRANCIS DzLAcv HYDE. Plamfield N. J.
GusrAvus T. KInv New York. N. 
H. McK. Lmnou, Indianapolis. Ind.
Mas. CHAans D. LANIn. Greenwich. Conn.
Roms“- LASSITER. Charlotte. N. C.

own Lax Boston. Mass.

DWAID E boomers, New York. N. Y.
J. H. McCURDv, Springfield. Mass.
011 T. MALan, Philadel hia. Pa.
WALT” A. MAY. Pittsbur , Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKLN. Augusta. Me=
M‘Iss ELLG SCIIPPS, LaJolla. Calif.
HAROLD H. Swur‘r, Chicago Ill. _
Funnier: S. Trrswon'rn, New York.  Y.
Mus. JAuzs W. WADSWOITB J n., Washington, D. C.
. c. Wasn, New York. N’. v.

OHN G. WINANT, Concord. N. H. .

as. \VILuAu H. \VOODIN In. Plainfield. N. J.
FREDERICK M. WAanc, ew York. N. Y.
C. S. Wu'rox, Scranton. Pa.

