The World at Play

LAY is a universal language. In the kingdom, or republic if

you will, of play there are no boundaries except those that separ—
ate the living from the dead; those who still play from those who
do not.

In every country play and recreation will have a vital part in
shaping the new culture, the new art, the new life of man.

In all lands leisure increases—even though the rate of increase
is greater in some countries than in others. Art, music, drama, Sport,
adventure are central to leisure. Play and recreation cannot lightly
be tossed aside by those who care what kind of world their chil-
dren’s children shall live in.

As we understand one another’s play and recreation; as we share
more fully knowledge of what we really want to do when we are
under no compulsion; as we know how we are alike and how we are
different in our deepest desires, what we really are when we are our-
selves, -—-—then we shall be better able to live together in a world that
each year is made smaller by radio and airships. Progress lies not
in making each nation’s play alike, but in giving opportunity for all
individuals, groups and nations from out of all the infinite possibil—
ities of growth and development to become what will give the most
permanent and enduring satisfaction.

The play tradition of the United States owes much to Germany,
to England, and to other countries—yet after all it is essentially
American. In the field of play and recreation there must never be

tariff walls. '  
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

"The pioneering spirit is leading us in the recreation movement to the discovery of a
vast continent of human values hitherto unsuspected, richer treasures, richer in real values

than all the geographical continents of the world put together."

L. P. Jacks, LL.D.

413

The World at Play

 

Courtesy of "Leisure and Education in Germany"

“German youth, as perhaps the youth of no other people, longs to wander through
its native land. The wanderings of young apprentices in the golden age of guild
handicraft, the journeys of the TurnVater Jahn and his students, the travels ol the
youth of today differentiate themselves only in form, not at all in spirit. The essence
of all wandering pilgrimages of German youth has remained the same: the urge to
grasp the spaces that lie far and near, to get the Feel of the landscape, of Nature,
of the folk in their manifold Forms of lile."—Hermann Maass in "Leisure and Edu-

cation in Germany."
414

The Youth Movement

in Germany

A study of one of today's

most significant movements.

HE term “Youth
Movement” is

quite an indefinite,
quite a complex thing.
German writers like to
call it “a philosophy of
natural life.” It is not
a creature of the Ger-
man state, and yet
through an act of the
Reichstag it was offi—
cially (albeit accident—
1y) recognized. The
government, through

The author wishes to acknowledge the valued help
given by Dr. Clara Maria Liepmann, one-time re-
search assistant in the Prussian Bureau of Prison Ad-
ministration. Grateful acknowledgment must also be
made to Dr. Werner Gentz, Councillor of the Prussian
Ministry of Justice, and to theafollowing officials: to
Drs. Weber and Zimmering of the Ministry of Wel-
fare,- to Drs. Cartes and Fischer of the German Ar-
chive for Youth Welfare,- to Dr. Hildegard Boehme
of the German Red Cross,- to Dr. Kurt Lowenstein,
Municipal Councillor for Berlin- to Herr Quadt,
Socialist Party Camp Chief; to r. Heinze of the
Wandervogel Groups and to Herr Kentkens of the
Council of Youths Association. Without their inter-
ested assistance the material for this study could not
have been assembled.

various state and na—
tional bureaus com—
bines, in devious ways. with
purely private groups, with
church groups, with political
parties and with unaffiliated
individuals, in a concerted
effort to promote this “move-
ment” towards a set of in-
definite and very often con—
flicting goals. Like so many
things in post-war Germany
the thing that stands out
most clearly about this move—
ment is fog. Much of what
has been written about it by
German authorities is inac—
curate. The new after-war

No matter how heavily laden the _
Wanderer’s bicycle, musical instru- .-

ments are always carried along. 

By Ben Solomon
Editor, Camp Life

Republic, battling with
the cross currents of
over twenty political
parties, not to mention
other national difficul—
ties, has not taken time,
has not had time, ade-
quately to evaluate this
movement, to clarify
aims, to consolidate
procedure.

There are many ways
of looking at the move-
ment, and one finds
pretty much what one
wants to’find. There

 

415

416 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

 

are organizations and more organizations. Nat-
urally this new, huge movement has developed a
nomenclature with a complexity of technical
names and terms, all with fine shades of meaning,
all contributing toward the one general all-inclu-
sive term “Youth Movement.” Additional diffi-
culties are met in the prolific literature 0n the sub-
ject, a literature which befogs conditions rather
than clarifies them. Youth publications alone
reach the tremendous yearly circulation of over
three million copies.

It seems almost necessary in approaching the
subject to discard at the beginning all notions and
impressions one might have at the present time
because the Youth Movement today is quite dif-
ferent from what it was five years ago and de-
cidedly different, in vital respects, from what it
was in its inception. Present German writers are
prone to look at the movement idealistically, to
give it background and a foundation which proba-
bly never was in the minds of its creators.

To an American who knows nothing or very
little about the whole idea it is confusing to find
so many strange and conflicting stories, each writ-
ten from a partisan viewpoint and many of which,
upon investigation, are found to be quite mislead-
ing, although not intentionally so. There are over
one hundred organizations of various kinds that
make up some part of the whole movement. They
issue newspapers, magazines and bulletins, and
they all have members, leaders and others who are
prolific writers about the movement—that is, their
special conception or part of it. Small wonder
that there is so much disparity between the writ-
ings and the whole fact!

The aims of the one hundred organizations very
often differ. In some cases they are diametrically

lnvarlably the hiking groups met are school classes
out with teachers. Older Wanderers travel by bicycle.

opposed to each other and yet, withal, there are
basic things in common, some principles that
really are an outgrowth of the original Youth
Movement started long before the war.

Since my return from Germany, I have found
it most interesting to look through my files, arti-
cles, papers, books, pamphlets and discussions
about the movement—data I had collected in the
past five years. Only now, after this little study
on the ground, in the Herbergen, with the German
boys and girls on the trail, do I begin to see clear-
ly. I find that one reason for this lackof clarity
is the fact that so many German writers and lec-
turers who would interpret the movement to
Americans, speak of it as it was and as they would
like it to be, not as it is today, in 1931. For the
movement has undergone radical changes recent-
ly; it is not following the paths the youthful
founders visioned. And here lies a tremendous
difference.

One American magazine article before me
would have you believe that the \Vandervogel of
Germany constitute the bulk and bulwark of the
whole Youth Movement. That might have been
true before the war but today nothing could be
further from the truth. The VVandervogel of
1931 and other similar freedom-loving groups of
youth are practically on the present fringe of the
movement, and in the aggregate constitute a very
small number, (less than twenty-five thousand),
in an organized movement of over four million en-
rolled members. In fact, everything you read
about the German Youth Movement leads you to
believe that it is a hiking-camping wave of youth.
Millions of hikers are pictured with packs on their
backs, roaming the hills, valleys and mountains
of Germany, camping out along the way, their

THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY 417

tents dotting the sylvan glades of the Black For-
est, the Thuringer Wald, the Bavarian Tyrol, the
Harz Mountains and the Spessart. Groups of
singing, youthful hikers are shown in pictures
wandering on foot all over Germany, living out-
doors, hiking, climbing, and hiking some more—
to all the woodland beauty Spots, to all the great
outdoors. What an inspiring conception! What
a portent of the new Germany, the Germany of
Tomorrow! If only it were true! I say again,
it may have been a true picture some time ago—
but I seriously doubt the accuracy of the painting
today. Newer, adult hands have applied other
colors to the original.
/ German youth, of both sexes, 75 per cent of
them (estimates vary from 60 per cent to 80 per
cent) do most of their wandering on bicycles and
do a. relatively small amount of hiking. In fact,
the other 25 per cent is made up of the school
children hiking in groups with their teachers, and
I feel sure that as soon as they can afford bicycles
they, too, will take to wheels. More mist is gen-
erated when we read that this Youth Movement
is youth-made, created by youngsters, led and con-
ducted by them. Here again that may have been
true many years ago, before the war, but it is
certainly not true today. And so go many, many
other of my preliminary impressions—my concep-
tion before I actually hiked and played and slept
and sang with them, from Berlin to Freiberg.
The aims of the original movement have been
changed materially by adult organizations. They
have added, subverted and diverted the inner urge
of German youth, as outlined in the Meissner
creed, and today have steered them into channels
against which the founders originally rebelled.
This point then is clear: the movement today
is not at all what it was in its inception; it is not
traveling the paths its founders sought; it is not
living up to its original written creed, to its
Declaration of Independence
which is supposed to epitomize
the intent, the wish and the
goal of German youth. .An-
other point that we must re-
member is the fact that, like
many other movements, it has
passed through various phases
-—(1) before the war; (2)
during the war; (3) before
the German Child Welfare
Act, and (4) after it. Each
phase has left its stamp on the
movement and has changed it

understanding.

nicotine.

THE HOHE MEISSNER CREED

The Free German Youth feel the their respective adult pro-
call to direct their own lives, setting
their own goals and taking them
upon their own responsibility in in-
ner truthfulness toward themselves.
Under all circumstances they will
'stand together for this inner freedom.
Free German Youth Conferences
will be held to promote mutual

All atherings of the Free German
Yout will be free from alcohol and

materially. That is why' the Youth Movement
today bears small and distant resemblance to the
ideals of its youthful founders—to its original

phase.

But be that as it may, there is a movement going
on in Germany, an inspiring, aggressive, idealistic
wave of youth which carries at its head a flaming
torch of light—which bespeaks a better day, not
only for Germany but for others who can catch
its spark. It started as a revolt against a too-
commercial civilization, as a revolt against the
strict German disciplinarianism, as a revolt against
adult leadership and adult ways—a movement that
would once again interpret the values inherent in
the great outdoors, in the sweetness of bird colors,
of soft winds and valley breezes, blue skies and
starry nights. Youth would go back to nature, to
the great outdoors and away from war, away from
tension and from high speed. It has been
changed, converted and diverted, used and mis-
used by adults in succeeding phases, but it is the
opinion of high officials in the German ministries
and of students of the movement that German
youth will again revolt and try to get back to the
original aims that gave the movement birth. "

I came to the German Youth Movement to get
closer to this freedom-loving, outdoors-loving,
hiking-camping wave of youth, only‘ to find that
the largest controlling organizations were decid-
edly and overwhelmingly those of the church and
of political parties. The Wandervogel of which
we have heard so much, the Naturfreunde (nature
f riends)—and all similar groups of hiker-wander-
ers are crowded out to the numerical edge, and
are hardly worth listing in the statistics of the
movement they started. Their aims gave the
movement birth. They fostered the present urge
into the open. Their creed became a rallying cry
for all German youth. Yet the shadow of politi-
cal parties and church organizations obscures their
vision, has captured almost the
entire membership of over
four million youth and dictate

grams.

History of the Movement

Let us go back to the begin-
ning. When in 1900, Walter
Carl Fischer, a twenty year old
law student of Steglitz,- led his
group of student friends on
week-end trips to the various
beauty spots,‘ the highest hills

'418 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

adjacent to his home city, he little dreamt how far
his work would spread. These friendly few wan-
dered free as the birds themselves, away from the
grinding, screeching wheels of the machine-driven
city, away from conventionality and the' formal
restraint against which Youth so often rebels.
Weekly their wandering feet turned toward the
quiet country, to the great outdoors, to the mean-
dering rivers and the songs of birds. Theirs was
a new-old attempt to get closer to the all-mother
Nature. These Wandervogel (wandering birds)
all under twenty-one, were happy in their new
found freedom and enjoyed the peace that only
the woods can give. '

The little group grew to larger numbers and
later to additional groups; even to other towns
and distant places the Wandervogel idea spread.
The idea captured the hearts and imagination of
revolting youth, and other groups under other
names and other leaders caught the spark. The
Friends of Nature, another important group,
began to spread the gospel—their basic aims the
same—to assert their independence from strict
formal adult control and to learn to know the

joys of nature. With each succeeding year new.

groups, new branches, greater numbers of stu-
dents were drawn to the banner of a free youth.
They organized themselves, they picked their own
leaders from among themselves, and of course,
they made their own programs. It was distinctly
anti-adult in its conception. There remained small
place, if any, for elders within their plans.

For thirteen years, until the centennial anni—
versary of the Battle of Leipzig (1913), this out-
door youth-made movement grew and spread to
all parts of Germany. The celebration brought
together thousands of pe0ple from distant places
and also hundreds of youthful wanderers. These
youthful groups, who previously did not know
each other, bespoke their common aims, and joint
meetings resulted. Bavarian joined with Wurten-
berger and Saxon with Prussian. They pledged
anew their independence—that youth would be
free and live its own life, its own way. Break-
ing off from the mainbody of celebrants, more
than five hundred of them decided to hike to the
highest peak, to Hohe-Meissner, near Frankfurt
in Hessen-Nassau, 30 kilometers away. Here
would they pledge their creed for all Germany to
see, for all youth to follow. And so atop this hill
the youthful band took oath to live without liquor
or tobacco, to shape their own lives and set their
own goals; to be truthful to themselves and their
"own destinies, and lastly, to spread the word

from the Rhine to the Baltic—yea, and beyond.

The echo of their exulting songs that rolled
from off this hill had not traveled far before it
was drowned in an ominous roar from the battle-
fields. The youthful band and their followers,
every one of them and many more, from sixteen
to twenty-one, donned uniforms and were lost in
the great war.

Into the black of the next five years was plunged
the Meissner Creed, the “wave of free youth,”
now not even a phrase, and all over the Reich the
youth-cry was stilled. Years went by, and times
came in the dugouts when the weary hours and
days must somehow be bridged, and thoughts
turned back to pre-war things. Some there were
who spoke of Meissner and the Creed—and born
anew was the old love, the spirit of the outdoors.
Trench groups were formed, this time, military
Wandervogel groups, ofiicer Naturfreunde groups
and others. And new aims, new thoughts, new
goals were added. There was to be no more war
—no more military—no hate—only love—when
the war should be over.

And through the terror and the blood-wet days
of the war, ways and means of carrying on some
part or other of the old program were found.
In some cases, “Wanderers” bulletins were printed
and eagerly read by every soldier-member. For
every new aim that was added during these days,
it seemed that another group sprang into being,
each with its own special membership require-
ments. Some groups were open only to officers,

.others to enlisted men, while still others admitted

only old-time, pre-war Wandervogel.

Politics Enters the Movement

In 1919, the war over, a period of great diffi-
culty in the Fatherland set in. The old youth urge
for peace, greatly intensified, for the quiet streams
and the simple pleasures of nature, rapidly mani-
fested itself, but this time the wandering groups
spoke of new and strange things. Pacificism and
political subjects were discussed, and political
parties and candidates occupied youths' attention.
Many there were in the groups who were now
older, over twenty-one, even up to twenty-five and
thirty years of age. Some of them had been
Wanderers in the old days and they took the lead.
With the changed aims and changed discussions
one could see the rapid formation of a totally
different type of Wander groups. Political
groups, seeking power, groups that concerned
themselves primarily with the solution of social
and ec0nomic problems came into being. A

THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY 419

conglomerate variety of groups, each promoting
its own new aims, its own ideas, rapidly spread
over republican Germany.

Soon the need for better national organization
—always an attractive word to the German—made
itself felt. German boy and girl wanderers,
slightly older than the pre-war type, were already
visiting distant cities and distant states. The
Bavarian who in the beginning blamed the Prus-
sian for the war, after visiting Prussian cities and
Prussian beauty spots, began to like him better.
So with the natives of all the other states. The
Saxon wandered through
the intriguing mountain
villages of the Black
Forest, smiled at the
quaint costumes and cus—
toms -of the natives, be-
came better acquainted
with their folkways and
music, and invited his
forest hosts to visit him
in Saxony. The Rhine-
lander climbed the hills
of Thuringer Wald and
the Bavarian taught his
joyous dances to the city
boy from Berlin.

This distant inter-city,
inter- state wandering
ushered in the era of the
bicycle. The greater dis—
tances traversed required
a more rapid means of
covering the ground and
since the war the bicycle '
has come to be used in
most of the wandering
o v e r the Fatherland.
The “hikers” ride from
city to city, from village to village and into the
mountain districts; they coast downhill, and
“walk” the bicycles up. The railroads make spe-
cial fares and take special care of the Wanderer’s
bicycle when he travels on the trains. Everybody
that can afford one rides a bicycle and in the main
only the groups of school children with their
teachers can be seen wandering afoot.

The Child Welfare Act

The members of the various wandering groups
—now grown to impressive national size—many
of them voters in the new Republic, made them-
selves felt in the councils of politics, in the politi-

cal clubs and even within the Reichstag. Witness
the fact that on July 9, 1922, when the new Ger-
man Jugenfluge Act was framed (Child Welfare
Law) it included in its phraseology the words
“care of Youth Movement also.” It was just as
though a similar act were enacted in our Congress
to promote Child Welfare or a Children’s Bureau
and included in its phraseology the indefinite ex-
pression “and care also for the Hikers and their
Hiking Clubs.” Just that phrase, “care of the
Youth Movement” and nothing more in the crea-
tion of the child-care offices and today we find

 

200,000 children from 8 to 15 years of age belong to the Red
Falcons, whose camps are operated as Children’s Republics.

national and state governmental bureaus financing
and promoting, in various ways, the whole con-
glomerate movement.

But the Jugenfluge Act did something else, of
more importance. It lent powerful stimulus to the
promotion of national wandering organizations.
In fact, it proclaimed to all Germany that these
hiking clubs were here to stay, that the govern-
ment rec0gnized them as a factor in the promo-
tion of good citizenship and intended to help or-
ganize them, to help finance them to help their
general growth.

And growth there was—unprecedented, un—

420 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

parallelled in all history. Within nine years, 1922-
1931, these groups of wandering youth have be-
come national organizations already numbering
over four million enrolled members between the
ages of fifteen and twenty-five, one-third of the
entire youth population in that age group. Re-
gardless of aims, creeds or political genesis, all
such organizations partake of some measure of
help from national and state governmental agen-
cies'. Under the Federal Ministry of the Interior
we find the German Archives for Juvenile Care
(Deutsches Archiv fiir Jugendwohlfahrt). a gov-
’ ernment bureau with offices in Berlin and which
functions as a research, study and information
headquarters for the whole field of juvenile care.
Part of its job is to lend books, magazines and
pamphlets and to maintain library and reading
rooms available at all times. It is made up of
three official members of the ministry and nine
members representing private youth organizations,
the expenses of maintaining these offices being
borne by the Federal Government. Another
bureau, the Federal Council for German Youth
A g e n c i e s (Reichsausschuss Der Deutschen
Jugendverbande) gathers and disseminates infor-
mation about youths’ shelters (Jugenherbergen).
Belonging to this council are one hundred and
three national organizations, classified groupings
which are given later.

In the large state of Prussia, under the Minister
of Welfare of the Department of the Interior, a
Youth-Care Bureau gives advisory and partial
financial support to the whole movement in that
state. The bureau assists local communities in
building shelters and sometimes contributes vary-
ing amounts of money for these purposes. In
other states we find similar bureaus, all doing
promotional work, advisory, statistical and finan-
cial. These government offices not only c00per-
ate with each other but also work closely with pri-
vate and semi-private organizations that care for
youth.

In spite of the tremendous growth of this won-
derful movement, government officials charged
with this work are conscious of many weaknesses
in the whole general scheme. They are quite
aware of the criticisms, just and unjust, leveled at
different phases of the Youth Movement, and are
working toward and hoping for that day when the
most important drawbacks will be obliterated or,

at. least, made harmless. The most serious fault,
if fault it be (and that depends entirely upon the
personal viewpoint), lies in the very definite
political pressure that party politics exercise upon
growing children. The domination for good or
evil of partisan politics is, nevertheless, very real,
and the value to growth, especially for adolescent
youth, is a debatable one. Some there are who
decry the control of the church organizations, for
they would have it a purely recreational health-
building movement. Of course, parents of the
pre-war era frown severely upon the “arrogance”
of youth; the new-found independence of these
boys and girls does not yet “set” well with them.
They dislike the wholesale mutiny against par-
ental-adult authority. Some there are who say
that wandering affects the serious study and work
in which young men and women should be engaged,
and as for morals and social behavior, they will
tell you that German youth is just rapidly losing
all hold on decency. As for my own observations
on this point, I found nothing worth criticizing.
Erom some quarters vehement protests are heard
decrying the leadership of untrained youth and
bemoaniug the disrespect for old traditions that
generally accompanies such leadership.

And so it goes. \V e recognize that some of this
reasoning is not exclusively German, nor particu-
larly an outgrowth of the Youth Movement. From
my own impartial point of view I came away with
an intense admiration for the behavior of the wan-
derers and for the whole general plan. But it is
interesting to observe that gradually the leader-
ship has been taken out of the hands of youth
and today most of the organizations are adult-
made and conducted by adults in the good old-
fashioned and very regular way. Look over the
list of church and political organizations; compare
their aims and their numbers with the bona fide
youth groups and you can readily understand the
important change in leadership that has been
effected. As the adult control grows,.increasing
numbers of boys and girls break off from the main
organizations and form new “neutral,” “freedom-
loving,” “independent” groups. The new revolt
of youth against the present Youth Movement and
about which we already hear much is under way.
“Neutral” groups are growing and the more pro*

gressive educators are happy about it.
(To be continued)

 

Celebrating the 100th year of Greek indepen-
dence at the Y. M. C. A. playground, Saloniki.

Ten Years' Growth of the Play Idea

in Europe

By Charlotte F. Kett

” 0 you ever play ball?”
Mme. Houdré asked
some girls of twelve.

“No; it would break the windows and soil the

walls.”

“You play hop-scotch, perhaps ?”

“No; that spoils the asphalt.”

“But you skip, surely?”

“No, that muddies our aprons in wet weather,
and when it’s fine there is too much dust.”

This conversation, reported at the International
Child Welfare Congress in Geneva in 1925, rep-
resents very fairly the low ebb of the play idea in
many European countries, ten years ago.

Times change, and with them ideas; and the
idea of play is no exception to the rule.

But is it possible to consider Europe as a whole?
If we divide it roughly into the Germanic, the
Latin and the Slav countries we get an idea of
the cultural chasms existing between the tradi—
tions of the various peoples, but we still omit
great geographical “chunks” and give a picture
falsely simplified. France and Italy, for instance,
fall into the Latin classification, but it would be a
mistake to assume on that account that a child’s
Education in the two countrieS'would be similar,

The League of Paris Red Cross
Societies

or that the idea of play would
advance with equal speed in
both.

Aid for the promotion of playgrounds was
available from the National Children’s Fund of
the American Junior Red Cross in all three coun—
tries in the early post-war period. In France and
Italy it fell, on comparatively barren soil, but in
Belgium it has borne fruit an hundred-f old so that
in the past year, we have read appeals in the
press, by French visitors returned from Belgium,
for France to make as generous provision for
her children’s play, as does her neighbor to the
north. And so it is coming about that play-
grounds are spreading by contagion where they
failed to “take” with the first inoculation. New
inoculations are being given from time to time
by private benefactors, and thanks to this stimu-
lus, playgrounds in the crowded quarters of Paris
are opening one by one. An unusual feature of
their management is that a trained nurse is con—
sidered the ideal person to be in charge.

Workers From America Help

Between 1921 and 1925 three American play-
ground workers, Ruth Findlay, William A. Wie—

421

422 TEN YEARS” GROWTH OF PLAY IN EUROPE

land and Dorothy Mlarsh, working first under the
auspices of the American Junior Red Cross and
later under those of the League of Red Cross
Societies spread the gospel of outdoor play by
practical demonstration and by conducting train-
ing-courses for
playground di-
rectors in vari-
ous EurOpean

centres.
The Findlay-

Wieland Play-
ground Manual,
published in
French in 1922,
was the bible of
the movement
for many years.
leading event-
ually to the pub-
lication (in
1929) by the
Belgian Red
Cross of their
excellent “Man-
uel relatif a
l ’ Organisation
des Jeux de
Pl e i n A i r,”
while Miss
Marsh’s work
in Hungary en-
couraged the
publication in 1925 of their Manual on the Or-
ganization of Games and Playgrounds, “Napnyu-
gati Jatékok.”

Playgrounds were deve10ped at an early date
in Brussels, Liege, Jodoigne, Jumet, Charleroi,
La Louviére, Dison, Tournai, and Seraing in
Belgium, and the training courses for playground
directors, or “monitors” as they are usually called
in EurOpe, leading to a diploma, have been con-
tinued by the Belgian Red Cross in Brussels, La
Louviére and Charleroi. In Belgium the instal-
lation, equipment and support of playground is
becoming more and more a function of the
public authorities, the Red Cross co-Operating in
the venture it initiated by training the workers,
and creating a public opinion favorable to its
development.

The summer courses for monitors given in
Budapest in 1924 and 1925 by Miss Marsh

reached some sixty teachers of physical education

from different parts of Hungary, many of whom
were Catholic sisters. Here Junior Red Cross
groups develop more or less modest playgrounds,
usually in connection with their schools, at the
rate of about thirty a year.

 

Such model playgrounds as this at Warsaw, Poland, are
helplng to promote recreatlon in foreign countries.

The Hungarian Red Cross, inspired by the
example of Belgium, has conducted an interesting
summertime demonstration in play-leadership in
Budapest by roping off certain play areas in the
city and organizing games among the children
who were found in the neighborhood. It was
felt that the social and moral effect of this effort
was of the utmost value.

M'r. VVieland worked also in Italy, where a

' well-equipped playground was installed in Rome;

in Austria, where Dr. Gaulhofer stands out as
the able advocate of out-door play and physical
training; and in Yugoslavia where 376 play-
grounds are now in operation as an outcome of
the impulsion given to the“ movement by his work.
M'any of these represent a joint effort on the
part of the Junior Red Cross, the Sokol Society
and the Parent Teachers’ Association. Some
have received assistance from the_ American

Juniors.

TEN YEARS” GROWTH OF PLAY IN EUROPE 423

The Movement Spreads

In Poland, the American Junior Red Cross has
helped to install playgrounds in both Wilna and
Warsaw, while Polish Juniors themselves have
arranged for play centres in Lwow, Kielce, Lub-
lin, Bialystock, Posen, Lodz, and other towns.

In 1927, the Czechoslovak Red Cross began to
lay out a model playground for the use of the
children of the seventh and eighth districts which,
when completed, is to contain a rolled sandy area
for games, a place for skipping and jumping, a
tennis court, a grassy playground for little chil-
dren with slopes for rolling, benches and trees,
courts for volley-ball, basket-ball and baseball and
a section devoted to “little gardens.” A water
system with shower baths and a locker-hut with
accommodations for the guardian are also en-
visaged. The plan, elaborated by the playground
specialist connected with the Ministry of Health,
Mr. A. Ocenasek, inspired the American Juniors
to contribute $500 from their National Children’s
Fund toward its realization.

Latvia, on the Baltic Sea, is a country where
the playground movement has begun almost by
spontaneous combustion. The first Junior Red
Cross playground was organized by the Municipal
Girls’ School of Cesis, in 1923, with aid from
.the junior Red" Cross Headquarters at Riga,
amounting to 60 lats ($12.00). In the same year
eight other circles managed to do as well, and
since that time the idea has shown steady growth.
Here in the north an interesting variation is the
organization of skating-rinks in winter.

It would be a mistake to picture all these play-
grounds as either large, well equipped or per-
fectly organized. Many of them lack competent
leadership, many have been arranged in the sim-
plest possible way by the children’s own initiative.
But they exist; the idea has been planted, and
for the most part it shows sound growth.

Some of the playgrounds, we must regretfully
admit, are locked up much of the time and only

“It is evident that the modern age is riding on a tornado
of rapidity, jealously competing with its own past every
moment in feed and production. We cannot stop its
course, and should not, even if we could. Our only anxi-
ety with regard to it is that we may forget that slow
and mature productions of leisure are of immense value
to man, for these only can give balance to a bloated accu-
mulation and rhythm to the life that ever misses its hap-
penings by missing the cadence of chastity in its enjoy-
ment.”—Sir Rabindranath Tagore.

used by schools, according to a certain schedule,
often for gymnastic exercises of the duller sort.
The view that the body can be as harmoniously
and well developed by a balanced .program of free
and joyous play as by some other militarized form
of drill is one which develops slowly, but it is
gaining ground. It was firmly put forward at
the Second International Conference of Open
Air Schools held in Brussels in April, 1931, where
in addition two resolutions were passed in favor
of the play idea: Resolution 6 advocates the ad-
visability of both a garden and a playground “as
spacious as possible” in connection with every
city school. Resolution 7 desires to encourage
city governments to create, in thicklygsettled dis-
tricts, public squares and play spaces reserved for
children and managed for their benefit.

Notice in the sixth resolution that significant
word “garden.” What EurOpean would be con-
tent to disfigure nature in order to arrange it for
games? Beauty 'for him 'comes first, 'for instinc-
tively he recognizes that there is .a.hygiene of' the
Spirit which is as important, or perhaps more im-
portant, than the hygiene of the body.‘ I think; as
I write, of a play-Space in the newnwoorld 'in a‘
region where all the fruits- and flowers of earth
will grow,—-which is nevertheless a mere sun~
baked, surfaced area with apparatus where the
child, if he can endure such ugliness, may de-
velop as sound a body as one may want, at the
loss of who knows how much in aesthetic appre-
ciation!

Europe may care too much about not breaking
the windows, not spoiling the asphalt, not dirtying
the apron, but it is equally concerned—in most
quarters—with not breaking the trees, not spoiling
the view, not littering the grass. As the idea of
joyous, health-giving play advances, may it do so
without sacrificing that love of beauty which has
helped to make of Europe the playground of the

world !

“Compressed and crowded time has its use when deal—
ing with material things, but,living truths must have for
their significance a full accommodation of leisure.” '

“What gives us cause for anxiety is the fact that the
spirit of progress occupies a great'deal "more of our mind
today than the deeper life process [of] our being, which re-
quires depth of .1eisure for its sustenance.”—-—Sir Rabin-
dranath Tagore. ' i  '

u‘.

Leisure Time Activities

in Great Britain

Great Britain is making rapid
strides in the acquisition of

playing fields and play spaces.

” HERE can be no doubt,” writes Sir Law-
rence Chubb, General Secretary of the

National Playing Fields Association, “that
in England the recreation movement is develop-
ing by leaps and bounds. This has been largely
the result of the propaganda of the National Play-
ing Fields Association. Last year we had a poster
display throughout the country, and this propa-
ganda must have had considerable effect in draw-
ing the attention of the man in the street to the
existence of a serious problem and the efforts that
are being made to solve it.”

Acquiring Land for Playing Fields

Since the organization of the National Playing
Fields Association over four years ago, nearly
600 playing fields and recreation grounds have
been provided. During the fiscal year ending
April 30, 1930, the national association became
trustee for 18 playing fields. In most cases, how—
ever, the title to the playing fields is conveyed to
the local authorities or in some cases to the local
Playing Fields Association as trustee. The na-
tional association from funds raised or contri-
buted by the Carnegie Trust Fund grants funds
and assists in the local acquisition of playing
fields. Up to April 30, 1930, the national asso-
ciation had made grants to help acquire 323 play-
ing fields, allotting nearly £83,000 from the Car-
negie Trust Fund and over £24,000 from money
contributed to the national fund.

Over 5,000 acres are included in the playing
field areas which have been secured in this way.
The Carnegie trustees have set aside a total of

424

£200,000; the national fund has raised in

addition £164,734, most of which, how-

ever, is designated by the donors for use

in connection with special local plans.

The total capital outlay involved in areas
already acquired is over £2,000,000.

Practically every county in England has a local
Playing Fields Association. Many of the cities in
Scotland and Wales have also made a good start.
There are now 46 affiliated branches.

One development in the work of the associa-
tion has been the provision of services to local
communities in the preparation and layout of
grounds and in giving helpful advice and sugges-
tions based on the experience of the national asso-
ciation which has begun publication of a maga-
zine entitled The Journal of the N ational Playing
Fields Association.

The association believes that its work has con-
tributed to the recent action of the Board of Edu-
cation, as a result of which for a period of three
years ending the first of September, 1932, the
National Board of Education is prepared to make
grants to local educational authorities of 50 per
cent of the approved expenditures in respect to
new buildings and recreation grounds.

“The importance of this concession cannot be
exaggerated. It is an inducement to educational
authorities to obtain exceptional assistance with-
out unduly adding to the burden of local rates,
and evidence is accumulating to show that much
use is likely to be made of the opportunity of se-
curing half the cost of playing fields in respect
to schools which at present possess nothing but
wholly inadequate hard playgrounds adjacent to
the school premises—4grounds far too small for
organized games.” ' . '

One problem which the association and its local
branches is facing, as well as hundreds of private

LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES IN GREAT BRITAIN 425-

There are also many cultural
opportunities made possible
through travel and holiday

associations and institutes.

cricket, football, lawn tennis, bowling and other
sports clubs, is the local taxation problem. In
hundreds of cases, apparently, local assessment
committees have been raising the assessment on
recreation grounds occupied by these amateur
clubs which in the aggregate maintain near towns
a larger area than is provided for recreation by
the local authorities. These clubs are not, of
course, carried on for the purpose of making a
profit.

For Those Who Like to Travel

The National Playing Fields Association is an
outstanding organization playing an important
part in the development of recreation in Great
Britain. There are, however, other organizations
which are making important contributions in the
leisure time field. Among these are the associa-
tions organized on a limited dividend basis which
provide traveling service of various kinds. There
is, for example, the Workers' Travel Association,
Ltd., which arranges for working people and for
representatives of all trades and professions to
travel cheaply, safely and comfortably. The asso-
ciation has almost nine years of successful experi-
ence behind it and a rapid growth in the extent
of its service. In 1929 it booked over 22,000
people for travel in Great Britain and on the
continent. It maintains independent or affiliated
centers in various cities in Great Britain and the
European countries, and not only arranges for
independent trips but conducts special tours,
week-end parties, Christmas and holiday parties,
involving travel to Switzerland, Paris, Germany
or elsewhere on the continent or'to holiday cen-
ters at home. Efforts are made to bring traveling
members in touch with the progres-
sive and cultural influences in the
places visited abroad. Hostesses
and leaders are provided. Lectures
and social opportunities are ar-

ranged.
There is also the Holiday Fellow-
ship, Ltd., which has been in egcist- .

ence since 1914 and which in 1929

A notable leisure time
service is to be found in
the work of the National

- Federation of Women's
institutes which is reaching
out into rural districts'and
in many instances is trans-

. Forming village life, Dr.

L. P. Jacks has said.

provided for 28,000 weeks of organized
holiday travel. Holiday trips to various
interesting sections of Great Britain and
.. also to continental resorts are organized.
Guest houses are maintained in a large
number of places with local hosts and
hostesses and advisory committees. The
Fellowship also maintains some camps
,for young people and has been a factor in
organizing, and developing the Youth Hostels
Movement which is seeking to establish inexpen—
sive overnight resorts such as the Jugendherber~
gen Movement has established in Germany for
those traveling afoot or on bicycles. They have
already secured a number of resorts where over-
night accommodations may be had for from six-
pence to a shilling.

Low rates are secured in connection with trans-
portation and the facilities of the guest houses,
making it possible for members of the associa—
tion and guests to secure a great deal in the way
of travel and entertainment for comparatively
little money. It is possible for members of the
Fellowship to take a four weeks’ trip into Russia,
all, expenses included, for about £31 and a two
weeks’ trip to the Pyrenees for £15 and 10 shil-
lings. Weekly costs for various resorts in Great
Britain run from 40 to 50 shillings.

The Cooperative Holidays Association, founded
in 1893, incorporated in 1910, is just what its
name indicates. Neither a philanthropical nor a
profit making association, it establishes, erects or
leases guest houses in various resort sections both
in Great, Britain and on the continent, provides
hosts and hostesses, experienced leaders and lec-
turers for various trips and thus tries to make
holidays for its members genuinely interesting
cooperative occasions.

Over 25,000 “person weeks” at holiday centers
were arranged for by the association last year.
Collections taken up by the association at its regu-
lar Sunday evening meetings are used for furnish-
ing to other working men and women who have
no resources for themselves, occasional weeks of
rest and freedom from care in certain of the
guest houses which at add times are
thus made available to such people.

For the Rural Dwellers
of Great Britain

A notable leisure time service is
to be found in the work of the Na-
tional Federation of Women’s In-
stitutes. which is reaching out into

426

rural districts and in many instances transform-
ing village life, according to Dr. L. P. Jacks. A
recent report indicates a total of over 4,500
Women’s Institutes organized in England. There
are in England a total of 12,256 parishes, that is,
local governmental jurisdictions. Thus there is
an Institute on the average for every three rural
"parishes. The total membership in the National
Federation is over 270,000.

The Institutes are concerned with all kinds of
interests of women, and many of the activities
have to do with social and recreational interests.
As one of the publications of Federation says,
“There is no separation between educational and
social activities in the Institute.”

Institutes are counselled in planning their pro-
gram “not to lose sight of the value of the social
side which can give every member an opportunity
to take part in the meeting, to make new friends
and to feel that she is one of the community bound
together for work and for play.” Suggestions are
made for music, both vocal and instrumental; for
country dancing, Morris dancing, square dancing
and dance competitions; for drama, reading,
storytelling, pageants and tableaux; for many
kinds of social games and activities; for exhibits
and competitions in various rural activities; and
for debating and radio programs. Competitions
are urged to test skill or knowledge in peeling
potatoes and apples, threading needles and sewing
on a button in three minutes, naming the different
breeds of poultry and other rural activities.

The Institutes have done a great deal with
music, drama and handcraft. One interesting
achievement of the National Federation is an ar-
rangement with the “Performing Right Society”
which controls the copyright of most modern
music in England. By the terms of this agree-
ment the National Federation pays an annual fee
to the Performing Right Society and in return all
public musical performances organized by the
various individual Women’s Institutes, either on
their own behalf or jointly with another society,
are covered and may be held without risk of in-
fringement of copyright.

The National Federation has also arranged con-
ferences of the judges who decide on the merit
of the various drama presented by competing in-
stitutes in drama tournaments. Two original
county ventures are thus described:

“The Epsom Group, Surrey, this year held a
dramatic ballad competition in which six institutes
took part. The institutes were allowed free choice
of ballad and it was most interesting to‘note the

LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES IN GREAT BRITAIN

very different way in which each competing insti-
tute presented its choice. Some had a ‘chorus,’ or
‘bard’ who declaimed the whole ballad, while the
company acted in mime. Others let the ‘chorus’
or ‘bard’ give the gist of the ballad but arranged
for the characters to declaim their own speeches.
Yet a third method was the singing of the ballad
by the ‘chorus’ or a soloist, while the company
either mimed or partially sang the 5010 parts.

“The presentation of all the ballads followed in
general the lines indicated in Miss Lawton’s book
‘Ballads for Acting’ (Sheldon Press, 25. 
The judge at this competition preferred the form
of presentation in which the choirs remained im-
passive and took no apparent interest in the
action.

“Another interesting experiment was the Shake-
speare competition organized by the East Kent
Federation. One play, ‘Twelfth Night,’ was
chosen and the judge visited each competing in-
stitute to hear a reading of the whole play. The
play was divided into six parts of three or four
scenes each and after the preliminary readings
the judge allotted one of the six portions to each
institute, in order to make up two complete per-
formances of the play, one to be given on each
afternoon of the festival. Each company re-
hearsed the scenes set it, but did not rehearse the
whole play. At the actual competition the whole
play was performed, each competing institute
acting its allotted scenes. In order to help the
audience to recognize the ever-changing charac-
ters, each company was paraded before it took
the stage and each character introduced by name.

“This exceedingly original method of present-
ing Shakespeare showed obvious advantages and
disadvantages. It ensures the reading of the
whole play by the actors. The actors see their
own parts acted by others and learn in watching
them. The allocation of the various scenes among
the institutes is unquestionably fair, as it de-
pends entirely on how the play is read. On the
other hand, the final production must lack con-
tinuity and, from the point of view of the audi-
ence, not only do the personators of the different
characters vary in each scene, but their clothes
differ. Moreover, as there is no complete dress
rehearsal, timing and production generally must
be very difficult.”

In the handcraft field, the following activities
have been found most popular z—embroidery,
gloves, leather, plain sewing and raffia work, with
basketry, chair caning and knitting among the
next most popular.

LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES IN GREAT BRITAIN 427

“Musical activities are also
gaining ground. Interest is
aroused by means of community
singing in which every member
is asked to take part. Choral
singing follows as a natural out-
come, and the remarkable
growth of the competition fes—.
tival movement in England is an
indication of the real love of
music which exists among Eng-
lish people. The federation has
also been instrumental in reviv-
ing handicrafts among country
people. This work has been recognized by state.
assistance and many traditional crafts which
would otherwise have been lost have been pre-
served, and are a source of pleasure and profit to
those who practice them.”

The Workers’ Educational Association

One of the powerful organizations for adult
educational work in Great Britain is the Workers’
Educational Association which during the fiscal
year ending in May, 1929, affiliated over 2,000
different branches throughout the country with
over 26,000 members and nearly 40,000 students.

Most of the subjects afforded by the educational
program are the ordinary academic subjects with
literature and drama, economies, social and
industrial history and general history, com—
prising the largest attendances. Vigorous move-
ment within the association has developed the
Workers’ Educational Association Dramatic So-
cieties. “The extent and the quality of dramatic
activities among W. E. A. branches and groups
is still far from fully appreciated. . . . Play—
acting ventures are no longer a tentative experi-
ment undertaken by a Dramatic Literature class
at the end of the session; they have become the
productions of well-organized and well-directed
companies of players drawn from the full strength
of the branch. And in this way they have helped
to break down those barriers between students of
the arts and of the social sciences which have
sometimes been too apparent in W. E. A. work.”
Birmingham, for instance, has fourteen local
W. E. A. acting groups. There are many more
in London.

Most of these groups are affiliated with the
British Drama League and in 1929 it was a
W. E. A. Dramatic Society which won the final
of the British Drama League’s N. E. Area Com-
petition and appeared on a London stage in the

"It has become increasingly ap-
parent that in drama we have an
instrument of that social cultivation
which we call education. Drama is
at once a most vivid and most
subtle artistic medium, and is there-
fore a powerful instrument for the
conveyance of ideas.
quence, drama can be, under right
conditions, a most potent instru-
ment of moral, artistic and intel~ day? . .
lectual progress."—From report of
Workers Educational Association
Dramatic Societies.

All-England final. “This honor
fell to the Birdwell (Yorkshire)
players whose production of a
local dialect piece, written by a
local miner, is significant to
those who believe that a re-
naissance of folk-drama is the
only way of rejuvenating the
anaemic English drama of to-

In conse-

For the Children of London
In 1905 Mrs. Humphrey

Ward was instrumental in or-
ganizing the Children’s Play Centers Committee
in London. The work has grown until in 1930
there were 41 centers open in school buildings in
the late afternoon and early evening all year
round. They are supported in part by public
funds from the London County Council and in
part by private contributions. In 1930 the total
expenditures were over £16,000, £7,500 of which
were contributed by the London County Council.

A Sport Loving Nation

Sport is an accepted part of the Englishman’s
fundamental education. His sport is a part of his
business of living, rather than ’the spontaneous
expression of free activity, and it is evident to
the observer, that while the cricket matches, the
football games, the hockey matches and the other
games attended are thoroughly enjoyed, they are
taken seriously, with reserve and they lack- that
spontaneity and enthusiasm so characteristic of
American games. But because it is the business
of the Englishman to know his sports and to make
them a part of his living, there are to be found
everywhere facilities for sports. Even in the com-
munities affected so greatly by the pressure of
coal and cotton strikes the workers carry on
with their Saturday matches. The Council
schools have a half day a week for sports, and the
public and private schools include sports as a
regular part of the curriculum, in some instances
to the exclusion of the more generally accepted
studies.

Groups in country communities as well as the
groups on the playing fields, enjOy folk dances,
and to this day traditional dances are still to
be seen on certain festival days in the villages in
the north. The English Folk Dance Society has
done much to foster the preservation of the old .
dances.

Recreational
Developments

in Turkey

By Barent Burbans

As one of the recreational advisers provided

by the American Friends of Turkey, Mr. Bur-

hans is in a position to give first-hand informa-
tion on recreational developments in Turkey.

 

N LAYING games are idle activities to while

Paway the time in which only children

should indulge, and that not too often.”

This was the old attitude of the Turks toward
recreation—an attitude which for so many years
made progress impossible and has necessitated a
long demonstration period.

Previous to 1930 when the first official govern-
mental step was taken in the direction of national
recreation development, there had been attempts
at developments, some of which had met with
success. At Adana, for example, the American
Mission Board has conducted for two years a
playground in connection with the Mission sta-
tion which is open to certain groups during speci-
fied hours. Some years ago a small playground
was established at Istanbul. No provision was
made for leadership or maintenance and the play-
ground soon disappeared. A number of commu-
nities have realized the need for playgrounds and
interest is developing rapidly.

In 1927 the Smyrna \Velfare Council, with the
help of the American Friends of Turkey, estab-
lished a community sport field. Sport clubs and
teams were organized. With the cooperation of
the government a stadium was built on the sport
field and even today it is the best stadium in

428

 

Field Day at Robert College is
full of excitement for the boys.

Turkey. An American equipped playground was
also opened in the city park, located in the very
center of Smyrna. Here a complete program of
activities was conducted with the help of Amer-
ican leadership, and the use of vacant lots for
play purposes was also promoted. In 1929 the
City of Smyrna assumed responsibility for the
continued operation of this work and the Amer-
ican Friends of Turkey transferred their efforts
to Angora, the national capital, where in cooper-
ation with the government it began to construct
in the summer of 1929 a playground designed to
serve as a model for the Turkish nation. This
playground, known as the Fuat Bey playground, .
was officially opened in April, 1930, under the
auspices of the Himayei Etfal (National Child
Welfare Association) and the American Friends
of Turkey. The establishment of the program
was under the management of a group of deputies
of the National Assembly who were appointed
by the Prime Minister. This ground is the first
of four model playgrounds to be built as demon'—
stration centers.

Such a demonstration is necessary because the
people of Turkey have not had opportunity in
the past to become acquainted with the value of
play as we understand it. As a means of edu-
cation and character development play had never
entered the minds of the people of the country,
or if it had, it was suppressed as something out-
side of the established order. With the establish-

RECREATIONAL 'DEVEL'OPMENTS- 'IN TURKEY 429

ment of the new Turkish Republic, however, the
people have been given an opportunity to express
what they feel, and during the past few years it
has been possible to see the beginning of an ideal
for the youth of the nation in which recreation
will play a large part.

How the Present Movement Started

When the Turks drove the Greeks out of
Smyrna, an American, Asa K. Jennings, rescued
300,000 Greeks from the burning city. He had
a real interest in the people and seeing the need
for a welfare program in Smyrna, with the sup-
port of some friends in America he helped estab-
l i s h t h e
Smyrna Wel-
fare Council
which stimu-
lated the rec-
reation p r 0-
gram of that
city. While
t h e r e hi s
work attract-
ed the atten-
tion of the
national au-
thorities, and
he was soon
asked to
come to the
capital to in-
augurate a
n a t i o n a 1
piece of work
similar to that started in Smyrna.

The leaders of Turkey have an excellent idea

of what is needed for the youth of the nation,
but they lack technical knowledge and for the
most part, the necessary funds. The friends of
M’r. Jennings in America undertook to supply the
funds. For many years this group was known
as the American Friends of Turkey, but it was
not until 1930 that the group was incorporated
and headquarters were established in New York.

For the past two years the American Friends
of Turkey have cooperated with a Special Com—
mission of the Himayei Etfal composed of ten
men. Within a short time an incorporated So-
ciety for the Promotion of Welfare Work in
Turkey has been organized which will act as a
federation of all institutions doing welfare work.
This society is under the leadership of the Prime
Minister. The American Friends of Turkey are

 

Armenian, German, Turkish, Bulgarian and Rus-
sian girls at Constantinople Woman’s College.

now cooperating with this group by furniShing
two social and recreational advisers, and funds
to the extent of one-half of the budgets called for
in new projects of welfare work.

The First Model Playground

The Fuat Bey playground was constructed in
the heart of Angora on a side hill of loose dirt
directly behind the national headquarters of the
Himayei'n'Et'fal. The hill was graded into three
terraces and beautifully fenced. The terraces are
covered with lawns and have trees and flower
gardens along the tops. Benches and attractive
signboards depicting mottoes for Turkish children
are scattered
a b o u t t h e
g r o u n d s ,
w h i c h a r e
divided into
five sections
three appar-
atus sections,
one sport sec-
tion, and a
p 0 01 section
with a swim-
ming pool 49
by 26 feet at-
tached to
which is a
wading pool
26 by 17 feet.
The three ap—
paratus sec-
tions are for
kindergarten, intermediate, and senior children
and each section contains the apparatus appro-
priate for that age group. All apparatus was
donated by the Everwear Manufacturing Com-
pany of Springfield, Ohio, and is complete. In
the sport section basketball, volley ball, and hand-
ball are provided for. A portion of the basement
of the Himayei Etfal building has been fitted up
for a dressing room, showers, and handcraft ac-
tivities and rainy day programs.

The present staff, all of whom are natives, con—
sists of a supervisor, two game teachers, a kinder-
garten teacher, apparatus attendants, caretakers,
and a watchman. All of them work under the
leadership of the technical advisers furnished by
the American Friends of Turkey. As soon as
the training of the native personnel is sufficiently
advanced, the leadership of the advisers will be
withdrawn.

430 RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS IN TURKEY

Since the opening of the playground in April,
1930, over 3,000 children under sixteen years of
age have participated regularly in its program,
and the average daily attendance has been over
800. The playground is open every day in the
year from 9:00 A. M. until dark. The programs
are posted in advance on a weekly basis, and
holidays and special days are taken into consid-
eration. The winter’s program has included kin-
dergarten activities, apparatus play, organized
games, free play, athletics, handcraft, stunts,
group games, and quiet games.

The Ministry of Education has recently ar-
ranged that all new schools shall be provided with
adjoining playground space. At present very few
schools are equipped for recreation. Calisthenics
are compulsory in all schools and are conducted
according to the Swedish system which does not
provide much recreation. The Fuat Bey play-
ground has therefore arranged through the M in—
istry of Education for schools to use the play-
grounds as a part of their curriculum. Eight
groups from six schools are now on the play-
ground for twenty-seven periods a week during
school hours. One very progressive teacher con-
ducts all of her physical geography classes in the
sand boxes. All school groups on the playground
are under the supervision of their own teachers
and the playground staff assists the teachers dur-
ing the recreational periods.

Activities

Soccer, volley ball, wrestling, and horseback
games might well be called the Turkish national
sports. Of these soccer is outstanding. Twenty-
six years ago this game was introduced through
a French college in Constantinople. After a
short time it was banned by the Sultan and re—
mained dormant until the time of the Revolution
when it was revived with the aid of the British
soldiers. Volley ball was introduced twelve years
ago by a worker of the Y. M. C. A. at Con-
stantinople, who promoted this game in schools
and other institutions. Prac-
tically every school in Turkey
has facilities for volley ball.

\Vrestling is indigenous to
Turkey and much that the rest
of the world knows of this
sport came from this country.
Formerly every young man of
Turkey knew something of
the game called Cirit, which
is a form of polo. It is not

Turkey's old attitude toward recrea-
tion is rapidly being replaced by a
spirit of openmindedness toward mod-
ern developments. From Angora as a
'demonstration center the play move-
ment is radiating to all parts of the
country. The work of the American
Friends of Turkey in furnishing funds,
leadership and demonstration centers
is doing much to help in making
recreation more widely known.

so popular at the present time, but for centuries
horseback games had been of the greatest interest
in this country partially because of the influence
of the mounted armies stationed here.

Basketball, volley ball, baseball and vobakr have
been the main sports on the Fuat Bey playground.
Vobakr, a new sport developed by the American
advisers, is a very active game for a small space
embracing features of volley ball, basketball and
cricket. While there is plenty of interest in the
games, it has been very difiicult to teach them
because of a number of factors—the feeling of
the big boys that they have right of way over
the small boys; the class distinction, which still
exists to some extent, and the prejudice against
participation of girls in athletic events. There is,
too, a dearth of knowledge of the rules of the
games since practically none of the ofhcial rules
are printed in the Turkish language, and a lack
of understanding of the values of training and
practice. Chiefly through imitation, but also by
careful and sympathetic training the youth of
Turkey is learning to “play the game,” and the
program of activities is ever widening.

Activities other than athletics are developing.
In the handcraft classes the children are learning
to make articles such as kites, hitherto thought
of as available only through commercial sources.
They are also learning the lesson of awaiting
their turn on apparatus. Many are still somewhat
at a loss during free play periods, but they are
slowly developing initiative.

Other Recreational Developments

The second demonstration playground in An-
gora is a very small one at the National Baby
Home. This is situated just outside of the city
and houses one hundred babies until they are five
or six years old. Here, soon after the Fuat Bey
playground was opened, was installed such appa-
ratus as was suitable for these younger children.
The experiment has proved very satisfactory.

At the present time the third playground is in
the process of construction.

This will be known as the
Hammam Onu playground.
The Fuat Bey playground was
an expensive undertaking and
is only for children under six-
teen years of age. The new
playground is being installed
.as cheaply as possible without
losing any of its effectiveness,

(Continued on page 464)

 

At the outdoor theater of the recreation center

Mexico City Attacks Its
Leisure Time Problem

Mexico have often ob—

IN years past travelers in
served the pathetic empti—

ness in the life of the average Mexican boy or
girl belonging to the underprivileged classes. They
have noted the pitifully small amount of activity

in natural, free, spontaneous play which he has.
The child, stifled and suppressed through cen—
turies of heartless domination, has been charac-
teristically a sad and rather listless creature. But
the spark was still there; it was to be found in
the glint of the bright, black eyes. Though
timidly at first, the child responded readily to
intelligent play leadership, and the Revolutionary
Government, socially minded, in turn stimulated
this response by providing a
most comprehensive program of
leisure time activities.

On January 1, 1929, the De-
partment of the Federal District
of Mexico was created provid—
ing for the fusion of the ad—

By Enrique C. Aguirre

Mr. Aguirre, formerly Director of
Recreation, Department of the Fed-
eral District of Mexico, tells of the
reorganization plans which have
made it possible for a remarkable
recreation center to be erected in
Mexico and for a large number of
playgrounds to be established.

ministrative an (1 technical
functions of the previous
municipal administrations of
the City of Mexico with fourteen other cities and
towns in the Federal District and the so—called
Government of the Federal District. The chief
of the newly created Department of the Federal
District became a Cabinet officer appointed by
the President of the Republic, and the offices of
the governor of the Federal District and the
mayors of these various cities disappeared. The
chief of the Department has power to appoint
“delegates” of his Department as heads of the
various municipal units which function in each
town.

With this reorganization
there came an opportunity for
the President of the Republic,
Licenciado' Emilio Portes Gil,
and the newly appointed chief
of the ,Federal District, Dr. J.
M. Puig Cassauranc, to launch

431

432 MEXICO CITY AND THE LEISURE TIME PROBLEM

a most ambitious program of civic action, social
welfare and recreation for the whole District.
The high lights of this program may be divided
into three major parts:

First, provision for civic action through a
speakers’ and lecturers’ and publishing bureau,
and the organization of pageants and fiestas re-
calling vividly the historic life of Mexico, per-

sonages of Mexico, and events of major impor-'

tance through the centuries.

Second, the establishment of eight social cen-
ters for the masses of the various communities
in which a social, educational and recreational
program was developed every evening under com-

petent leadership.
Third, the realization of a comprehensive rec-

reational project for the children, young men and
young women in the congested areas of popu-
lation.

A Notable Recreation Center

Without adding anything to the weight of the
overburdened taxpayer, an investment of nearly
a million and a half pesos was made in 1929 for
the construction of a large recreation center, forty
acres in extent, only five minutes’ ride from the
very heart of the city, the Zocalo. This project
called for the erection of the following units
within the center:

A spacious gymnasium, forty metres in length
and twenty metres in width, well equipped with

a large spectators’ gallery, with modern shower
baths, steel lockers, and exercising rooms, and
with a capacity of more than two hundred par-
ticipants at any one time.

Two outdoor swimming pools, one for men
and one for women, each one thirty-three and
one-third metres in length and sixteen and a half
metres in width, provided with grandstands, each
seating approximately two hundred spectators.

Outdoor. courts for tennis, basketball and volley
ball.

A library with a capacity for 150,000 volumes.

A day nursery for infants and small children.

A baseball diamond with a grandstand seating
1,400, and a complete equipment of dressing
rooms, showers, etc.

Five “fronton” courts for the “pelota” game.

An outdoor theatre with an enormous stage on
which colorful pageants are being produced, and
a seating capacity of 2,500.

A football field with a four hundred metre
track and a two hundred metre straightaway, and
grandstands seating 800, with their respective
dressing rooms and shower facilities.

An extensive and well equipped children’s play-
ground.

A moving picture pavilion seating 1,400, which
is often used as an indoor theatre.

The Department of Parks landscaped the
grounds, planting trees, flowers, shrubs and lawns
in a most attractive fashion. The Engineering

On Sunday afternoons crowds throng the recreation center.
At that time moving pictures are shown in this building.

1—? t...‘ g

 

—"

MEXICO CITY AND THE LEISURE TIME PROBLEM 433

Bureau had charge of the construction program
and provided a splendid lighting equipment in
order that the center might be used in the eve-
nings.

The budget was provided for out of the econo-
mies obtained through the administrative reor-
ganization of the Federal District mentioned

above.
Ground was broken on the 15th of March,

1929, and on the 20th day of November, the
anniversary of the Revolution of 1910, the center
was inaugurated. President Portes Gil, diplo-
matic corps and high government officials at-
tended the celebrations. These lasted five days,
the total attendance passing the 200,000 mark.

The center is functioning free of charge for
the underprivileged classes of Mexico City, mostly
day laborers, skilled and unskilled factory work-
ers and students, under the leadership of a staff
of sixty-live teachers and play leaders. The aver-
age daily attendance is about live thousand men,
women and children, with the first group pre-
dominating. The activities in which they engage
have had a most benelicent influence in the whole
district in which the center is located.

In addition to the realization of this.vast pro-
ject, a three year plan was formulated for the

establishing of thirty-six playgrounds in the most
strategic locations in Mexico City and the Federal
District. During the first year twelve of these
were functioning under the leadership of eighteen
trained teachers who developed a complete pro-
gram of recreational and athletic activities for the
boys and girls, such as dramatics, singing, weav-
ing, music, dancing, athletic meets, contests,
championships in basketball, volley ball, baseball,
football, track and lield, handball and similar
sports. The attendance at each one of these play-
grounds increased to such an extent that it was
not unusual to see six or seven hundred children
at one time in one of the playgrounds, especially
on Sundays and holidays. The budget for the
equipment of these grounds as well as for the
personnel to direct them, was borne by the De; 
partment of the Federal District from funds rep-
resenting economies in its administrative reor-
ganization.

Mexico, the land which in the past has earned
too well the reputation of instability, is today
wide-awake to the social needs of the people and
is investing large sums for the sake of improving
its condition and stimulating the masses to a larger
and fuller life through an intelligent use of their
leisure time.

Physical Education and Recreation in Uruguay

PHYSICAL Education in Uruguay, according

to a bulletin issued by the International Ameri-
can Institute for the Promotion of Children, is
under the control of a national committee con-
cerned with the preparation of annual athletic con-
tests, the organization of physical education asso-
ciations, the promotion of public playgrounds and
baths and the popularization of health instruction
by means of lectures, books and periodicals.
There are local Sub-committees in the departments
which represent the national committee. The ac-
tivities of the committee comprise the establish-
ment of public playgrounds, instruction in physi-
cal education in primary and secondary schools
and in prisons and reformatories, and the organi-
zation of sports.

There are 75 playgrounds in operation at the
present time and 43 yet to be added. The pro-
gram, which is very broad, comprises gymnastics,
athletics, games, handcraft, nature study, garden-
ing, storytelling, music, and dancing. Bathing
facilities are free on Sundays and other feast days

for workmen and employees. All the_ beaches in
the city and others on the coast are provided with
playgrounds and leaders to teach games and simi-
lar activities, particularly swimming. The total
attendance at the public playgrounds in 1929 was
estimated at almost 2,000,000.

The school program provides two hours a week
for exercises and games in the school and three
hours a week on the public playground. Great
importance is attached to games. A wide program
of activities will be developed when the school
parks begin to operate. The school camps, which
have been conducted for a number of years, the
School Sporting League, the health clubs and the
posture examinations are also included in the pro-
gram of physical education.

Physical education is also organized in prisons
and reformatories under the leadership of special
teachers and with the program adapted to the age,
sex and habits of their inmates. The'penitentiary
and the Boys’ Educational Colony are provided
with well ‘equipped playgrounds.

 

These were once the only dances
familiar to the native girls.

” E certainly were sur-
Wpriscd,” said a recent vis-
itor in Johannesburg, “to
find how mistaken we were about
South Africa. we expected to find
plenty of wild animals and jungles. Instead, we
find a country very much like parts of the United
States. We certainly didn’t expect to find great
modern cities like Cape Town, Durban and Job—
annesburg.”

Much could be written about American miscon-
ceptions of South Africa. Most of them are as
mistaken as is the popular South African concep-
tion (gained from the movies) that all Americans
are cowboys or Indians.

Nearly two million white people make
South Africa their home, with about three
times that number of black folks who form
the bulk of the rural pOpulation. The dis-
covery of gold and diamonds, however, with
the resulting mushroom growth of large
cities like Kimberley and Johannesburg, has
meant a tremendous demand for cheap labor.
This labor for the mining and industrial
cities is drawn from the Native areas in
the country.

Today 350,000 Bantu men are at work in
the City of Johannesburg alone, 200,000 of
them in the gold mines and living in the
great enclosures or compounds. Their
wives and children are left behind in the
country. The remaining 150,000 are work-
ing in shops, factories and homes of the

434

Recreation

For the Black Folk
of South Africa

By Ray E. Phillips

Perhaps you know South Africa. It
you do not, you will learn many
surprising facts from this story.

white folk. Of these latter, over half have made
the city their permanent home and have brought
their families with them to share this new civili-
zation of the white man.

In a word, the rush of the white man to South
Africa, the opening of mines, the building of
cities, have had a terribly disrupting effect upon
the whole life of the black man. His old tribal

Now the girls of Johannesburg
are being taught folk dancing.

 

RECREATION FOR THE BLACK FOLK OF SOUTH AFRICA 435

life is being quickly swept away as he is plunged
into western ways of life. It is for the Native
black man a time of great strain. He tries vainly
to find his feet in a new order of things which is
totally strange. He is blindly accepting what he
sees of the white man’s ways of living.

The demand is greater in South Africa than
in most other lands for carefully adapted leisure
time activities which shall teach these newcomers
how to occupy themselves worthily when not at
work. Employers are interested in the black man
largely as a worker. What he or his family do
with their leisure time has, until recently, both-
ered them not at all. But times are changing,
and increasingly white South Africans are begin-
ning to interest themselves in the problems of rec-
reation for Bantu folk. Overseas missionaries
have. blazed the way here. They have pioneered
in many fields of endeavor. And it is a tribute
to missionary efficiency that today there are to be
found so many recreational and social agencies
at work among black folk.

In Johannesburg

For the 200,000 gold miners in the Johannes-
burg area, weekly moving picture shows are being
given in each great compound. Films are care-
fully chosen and censored by a missionary worker
who employs the Operators and supervises the
fifteen circuits. The cost, almost $27,000 yearly,
is borne by the mine owners. An experiment is
now being undertaken under missionary leader-
ship, financed by the mines, to demonstrate the
value of supervised social center activities in the
compounds. Large rooms are provided where
social workers direct games and allied activities
of a various sort. Two compounds have installed
playground apparatus of an up-to-date and ap-
proved type which is pOpular. These ideas are
bound to spread to all the fifty-five mine com-
pounds.

For the Bantu city workers, a large building
in the heart of Johannesburg, the Bantu Men’s
Social Center, furnishes a home for hundreds
of city workers, during their non-working hours.
This plant cost $35,000, money contributed by
American missionary societies, gold mines, and
Johannesburg business men. Here is found the
largest gymnasium in South Africa; a night
school reaching over 100 men; clubs and organi-
zations for music, literary work, boxing, evening
athletics, and similar activities. A committee of
Johannesburg missionaries and business men ad-

minister affairs of the social center and provide
a paid secretary and staff.

Early this year a Bantu Sports Club was Opened
to the“ black public. Eleven acres of ground
within a mile of the City Hall of Johannesburg
had been given by two business men for use as
a sporting center for Native people. Thirty
thousand dollars was obtained by a local com-
mittee. from various sources. A huge grandstand
was erectedefronting the large playing fields; ten-
nis and tenikoit courts and a large club house
complete the present equipment. Plans for a
swimming pool are under way. It is intended
that from this center South African Native Sport
will be organized for far and near. December
will see the first amateur athletic and track meet
for the country held on these grounds, and at
that time a South African Bantu Amateur Ath-
letic Association will be formed. A beginning
has been made in certain centers by way of or-
ganizing local sport. A Johannesburg Soccer
Association, now numbering 52 teams, plays
weekly for trOphies presented by prominent mer-
chants and mining authorities. In Johannesburg,
Durban, Randfontein and one or two other places,
annual sports days are regularly held for the
whole Native pOpulation. These are all-day af-
fairs and are very popular.

For the Bantu children organizations along
Boy Scout lines have arisen for boys and girls.
Some 3,000 Bantu boys are now doing Scout work
in an organization known as the “Pathfinders.”
About the same number of girls are enrolled in
the “Wayfarer” movement, an organization en-
tirely independent of any white organization, but
controlled by local, provincial and national com-
mittees of leading European and Bantu women.
Children in Johannesburg have football and
hockey leagues organized for them. They take a
prominent part in the annual athletic competi-
tions. Weekly free moving picture exhibitions
are given for them at the Bantu Men’s Social
Center and in several of the municipal locations
where thousands of the married Bantu pe0ple
live. Moving picture shows are given regularly
at three large golf clubs for the Native caddies,
this free service being provided by the Johannes-
burg Rotary Club.

In Other Cities

Outside Johannesburg not so much is being
done. A Bantu Y. M. C. A. at Bloemfontein is

(Continued on page 465)

Dreams Come True in Belfast

By Veronica J. McFeeters

O dreams come
D true? Do the
fairies gather
around the children of
Ireland, weave magic
spells about th e i r
wishes and bring them
to pass?

Yes, often! You
of the practical mind,
take note! One day.
some years ago, a
gray eyed, dark haired
Irish girl stood in one
of the play centers in
Chicago and as she
gazed on the children
enjoying the play facilities provided for them,
a fervent wish arose from the depth of her heart.
“How I wish we could have play centers like this
in Belfast!” Her wish was so fervent that it
became vocal. “What’s the matter now, ‘Irish’?”
asked her companion. “Oh! I was just wishing
we had grounds like this in Belfast.” “Gee! I
guess not. You couldn’t manage to get stuff
like this in your antiquated town. Why, you
are hundreds of years behind the times.”

The answer was like a red rag to a bull. The
hot Irish blood flamed up and she said, “Just you
wait and see! Inside of twenty years you Amer-
icans will be coming over to Belfast to get ideas
for your play centers. When we start we’ll show
you how things should be done !”

The angels and fairies who guard the destinies
of the Irish people, bent down, heard the wish
of the Irish colleen of Belfast, took it and planted
it in the heart of a brave citizen of that city, Sir
Robert Meyer. He, too, began to see visions and
dream dreams. The matter was talked over in
the Committee of the Parks Department 'under
the chairmanship of Councillor Albert Hodgen,
J. P. Lo! the dream materialized; the vision has

436

 

Sand pile studios are the delight
of these young Belfast artists.

eventually come true!

Belfast now has ten
up - to - date, well
equipped play centers
organized b y the
Municipal Corpora-
tion of the City of
Belfast. In all the
grounds special provi-
sion is made for the
all-round development
of the children. In
each of the play cen-
ters there are suitable
swings, giant strides,
slides, merry-go-
rounds, ocean waves,
joy-wheels, sand gardens, paddling ponds, and
other facilities. Each play center is under the
leadership of a fully qualified teacher.

For the physical development of the children
various games are taught—stool ball, net ball, cap-
tain ball, tenikoit, tennis, cricket, football, run-
ning, jumping, high and long. In addition, each
ground has gymnastic drill, comprising Swedish
and hand apparatus. This, combined with folk
dancing and rhythmical movements, constitutes a
fair program of activities. In the fostering of
creative and artistic ability, we teach sand model-
ing, rafi‘ia, basket weaving, cardboard construc-
tion, sewing, embroidery, crocheting, and knitting.
On the educational side are provided speech train-
ing, elocution, verse speaking (after the manner
of the Greek chorus), singing, and storytelling.

Kindergarten methods are used in the training
of the little ones. Sand modeling is being brought
to perfection, while nursery rhymes and singing
games are used for the development of speech and
rhythm. Eurythmics have been introduced this
past year into the kindergarten, the children de-
lighting in forming poses of Greek statuary.

It has been only during the last three years

DREAMS COME TRUE IN BELFAST 437

that the Committee, under the chairmanship of
Councillor J. McKinney, J. P., and acting on
the advice of our general superintendent of parks
and play centers, Mr. George Horscroft, has
made this progress. The play center movement
is growing and much credit is due to the foresight
and practicability of our superintendent in bring—
ing the centers to such a high standard.

The first two centers to be opened outside the
public parks were Hemsworth Street and East-
land Street. The former, in Court Ward, has an
area of one acre, two roods, and five perches.
The latter, in Woodvale Ward covers an area of
one rood and thirty-two perches. These were
opened by Lady Meyer (wife of our town clerk),
Councillor Hodgen, 'then chairman of the parks
and play centers, presiding. The chairman stated
on that occasion that the Committee did not in—
tend to look back, but to go on until Belfast
could boast of being amply provided with play
centers for the young.

Glimpses of the Playgrounds

Take a glimpse. at Hemsworth Street Center
on a day of bright sunshine. The ground is
crowded. The paddling pool is the' center of
attraction. To the children it is not a paddling
pool, but the wide, wide ocean. The toy ships
which they sail on its waters are' not toys but
privateers armed with daring buccaneers who are
voyaging forth in search of adventure. What a
boon to the children, who though they live on an
island, may not have a glimpse of the ocean more
than once a year, and that through the generosity
of the various charitable institutions. Our Cor—
poration has planted the play centers in the poor—
est districts where c0ngestion' and poverty are
the rule of the day. I 1

Watch the girls in this ground as they dance
round the gaily beribboned Maypole! See their
smiling Irish eyes and listen to the lilt of song
on their lips! "

Our next journey is to Eastland Street. This
play center is situated in a
working class district. Here
we find the children better
clad and. better fed, and en-
joying to the full the games
provided for them. Watch
the girls and boys as they
dance the “Kerry Reel” or
the “Irish Jig.” Grace and
rhythm are in their actions.
Next, a basketball contest

Miss McFeeters urges all Americans
going to Belfast to visit Queen Mary's
Gardens which lie close to Cave Hill,
"Ben Madigan," on whose summit the
Face of the guardian spirit of the city has
been carved in, relief. usurely when the
lights of the city grow dim and the pale
stars shine above, he will smile in pride
' as he beholds this garden laid out For the
children'S'children of the'warriors who
fought on its hillside long ago."

takes place—~girls versus boys—and the girls are
victorious, the boys retiring crestfallen but good
losers.

Our next journey is to Donegall Road and
Henry Street. The latter is a small ground, but
good work is being done in it for the children of
that congested districts. Every available inch
of ground is utilized for games. Go there any
day the weather permits and you will find teni—
koit, rounders, deck quoits, and skittles all in
progress simultaneously, While in a small corner
a number of girls are mastering the swinging of
Indian clubs.

In Donegall Road Center, near the famous
“Sandy Row,” the children congregate in large
numbers. This is one of the districts where our
famous footballers are trained. In this ground
they have been taught the first rules of the game.

We now go to the County Down side of the
city, across the Queen’s Bridge, Where we can
hear the clang of the hammers building the
ships that sail the seven seas. And from this
point we see the tenders filling up with emigrants
for America. Already the United States and
Canada have absorbed some of the boys and girls
of our play centers. We guarantee they will
make you good citizens, for they have been trained
to “play the game”!

This ground is also famed for football. Al—
ready some of the older boys have attained fame
in that direction. In this district the children for
the most part come out of homes devastated by
drink and gambling. They are ill clad and ill fed.
To these children the playground is fairylandu
Watch them as they perform their “garland,” drill
to the music of the gramophone. See the eager
faces brighten up with whole-hearted intensity!
Surely this is a garden of dreams in a dark and
gloomy place. In contrast to this we find Clara
Street play center, under the shadow of the
Castlereagh Hills, a much larger and better.
equipped ground. It has an area of two acres
which gives plenty of room for games.

We now leave the dust and
congestion of the crowded
areas and take a look at
Drumglass Balmoral from
“druim,” a ridge or long hill
and “glassin,” a green place.
This center, as its name im-
plies, is a place of sylvan
glades - and - mossy dells;
where one may expect to see
Pan peeping out from amidst

438 DREAMS COME TRUE IN BELFAST

the trees, surrounded by gnomes and fairies. The
whistle of the birds as they call to one another
sounds like the pipes of Pan. Truly in this gar—
den of play one could never, never grow old!
This beautiful woodland, part of the Musgrave
estate, was generously given over to the Cor-
poration for a play center by the late Mr. Henry
Musgrave, D. L. It contains six acres of soft,
green fields interspersed with foliage and tall
trees. One enters the main gate.in the spring to
be greeted by the perfume of wall flowers. A
gracious spot for the little human flowers to
grow tip in!

With regret we leave the mossy dells of Drum-
glass and wend our way once more to the densely
populated districts of Boundary Street and Hay
Market. Both are small centers. One might al-
most ask, “Can any good come out of these
places?” Though opened a little over a year
ago, the work has made marvelous progress. Hay
Market is proficient in both Irish and English
folk dancing. One little boy—a future architect
if the fates be kind—can build wonderful houses
in the sand. We asked him to put a thatch on a
house he had modeled, and he thereby turned it
into an Irish farm house. It was easy to get the
straw for the thatching, for the ground, as its
name implies, lies close to the Hay Market, where
the stuff is bought and sold.

In Boundary Street the children will proudly
exhibit their willow basketry and raffia work. In
skipping exercises, eurythmics, and verse speak-
ing, they excel.

Finally we come to Castleton play center which
was donated and fitted out by the firm of Mc-
Laughlin and Harvey, builders and contractors,
in memory of the late W. H. McLaughlin, D. L.,
one of the leading citizens of Belfast. The ground
was opened on May 14, 1930, by Mrs.  S. Mor-
row, daughter of the late W. H. McLaughlin.
The Lord Mayor, the Rt. Hon. Sir William
Coates, Deputy Lieutenant, presided and accepted
the gift on behalf of the family from Major

McLaughlin. The ground, which covers an acre.
is thoroughly up-to-date; no expense was Spared
in constructing it. The children who use the
ground are being taught good sportsmanship. To
see the budding Hobbs at their cricket match is
a worth while sight. They are oblivious to all
around them. To them “the game’s the thing.”

This summer we hope to open our eleventh
play center which will contain tennis courts, a
children’s play center, and a rest for old people
where they may have their games of chess,
draughts or quoits in the fresh air. Our Com-
mittee and superintendent provide for all children
irrespective of age! By kind permission of his
most gracious Majesty, King George V., the
ground will be named “Queen Mary’s Gardens,”
in honor of his most gracious consort, Queen
Mary. It will be officially opened by the Lady
Mayoress, Lady Margaret McCullagh, C. B. E.

Under these conditions the children of Belfast
are growing up. The-educative value of play is
kept in the foreground. Even in play the pr0per
use of our beautiful language is taught, the use
of dialect being forbidden during the playing of
the game. To say “the lep,” instead of “the
leap” in skipping means that the perpetrator must
dr0p out of the game. “Drastic measures,” you
say, but'the child remembers not to transgress
again. St. John Ervine, the writer and dramatic
critic, said in one of his articles: “If one wishes
to hear good English spoken go to Belfast.” We
are anxious to keep our reputation and so speech
training receives prominence.

We are making rapid progress. Though dark
clouds hover over our industries and money seems
as scarce as snakes in Ireland, yet Sir Robert
Meyer with the aid of our chairman. Councillor
McKinney, and his Committee and our inde-
fatigable superintendent, are dreaming of other
play centers through the city in order that every
child shall have the chance to grow up and play
in decent surroundings, safe from the dangers of
the street.

Australia Preserves Her Natural Beauty

ITH all the financial difiiculties which
WAustralia has, she still finds time, ac-
cording to the N ew York S 1m, May 15th,
to try to keep her highways free from wayside
signs and billboards which would mar the natural

beauty and make it impossible for passersby to
enjoy it. The Main Roads Board is reported to

have ordered the removal of all advertisements
painted on fences beside the roads for which they
are responsible. The agents promptly painted the
sides of the barns and hung advertisements from
trees a little distance from the roads and now the
Board has ordered that all advertisements that are
visible from the roads shall be removed.

How the Children of Hungary Play

By Lewis W. Riess

National Physical
Director,

Y. M. C. A.’s in Greece

NE of the most
0 thrilling experi-
ences of my two

weeks’ stay in the Mag-
yar nation was seeing
the exhibition of folk

. dancing given at one of
the B‘urgher schools in
B u d a. The eighteen
dances on the program.
were perfectly executed by the children of this
school whose ages ranged from twelve to sixteen
years. The joy of the children as they danced
for their parents was in itself a delightful thing
to see. Dances of all nations were included in the
list, but those of Hungary were naturally the most
perfectly done and the most popular, and well may
they have been, for there is a rhythm and swing
to them that makes an onlooker Wish he, too,
could dance them! I doubt if any nation has such
a line, varied program of folk dancing in its physi—
cal program as that conducted in the Hungarian

schools.

The Physical Education Program

The physical education program of the Magyar
schools is a complete one. All children are given
medical examinations yearly and
there are frequent lectures on
health, sanitation, and hygiene.
Gymnastic work, which includes

ln Hungary the schools
are providing a program of
physical education which

 

At the Y. M. C. A. National Camp Pelion
volley ball is a very pepular game.

Education directs the program. The teachers are
usually graduates of the Royal Hungarian School
of Physical Education, founded in 1925, but there
are some who have not had this training. These
teachers from an early day are required, howexer,
to appear once a week at the Royal School of
Physical Education to listen to lectures and se-
cure new information in their field of work. There
are inspectors of the school recreation program
and also workers called “Intendants” who serve
under the inspectors.

For those Who are not in school but are under
the age of twenty—one, there is a society called
“Levente” (upright men). These non-students
must continue their gymnastic work
until full manhood is reached. A
careful checkup is kept and the
registry list is examined every year

folk dancing for the girls and one
year of military drill for the boys,
is compulsory in and out of school
until they reach the age of twenty-

one years.
A National Board of Physical

includes all varieties of
games and sports. As a
feature of the program it is
required that each school
have a Boy Scout tr00p.
Camping is considered a
very important activity.

by inspectors of the Central or
Municipal committee. Every fac-
tory owner employing more than
1,000 men is required to have a
“Levente” Society. If the factories
(Continued on page 466)

439

RACED
‘ ; by every
n a tural

advantage of
climate a n d
topographical
feature that a
c o m m u n i t y
could possibly
(1 e s i r e, and
p e o p l e d b y
m e n , women
a n (1 children
who consider
recreation a
prime objective
of life, Lo 3
Angeles, scene
of t h e Inter-
national R e c-
reation C o n-
gress of 1932,
will provide a vast and intensely interesting laboratory
of study for the recreation leaders who will come
from every corner of the world to attend this meet-
ing. ,

The city of Los Angeles is situated on the breezy
Pacific Coastal plain, facing on the one side the great
western ocean and on the other the mighty rock-ribbed
mountains. Semi-tropical in nature, the climate per-
mits of an abundance of natural beauty and variety in
plant life.

The combination of a mild climate the year around
and of boundless facilities provided by nature herself
for the play of her people has thoroughly imbued Los
Angeles and Southern California with the idea and

4.40

 

Los Angeles County Invites
you to enjoy winter sports.

ition designed to bring the

Los Angeles—The H1

Internationa

By John C. Porter
Mayor, City of Los Angeles

If you would see Los Angeles at b -
its "gala, holiday best," go to
the Recreation Congress in 1932‘!

the ideals of recreation in all of its variegated form!

The ocean and its beaches, the mountains and
their quiet retreats, the eternal sunshine and with
sweep of the out—of—doors, have left their impress.-
upon the character of this section of the United
States and have devoted its p0pulation to the. cult of
wholesome outdoor play. Amid settings of semi!

tropical foliage, on sun-swept pine-clad mountain

slopes, or on the l
c l e a n w h i t e i

These earnest mus cians w
sands Of ocean see that music is not lackin
beaches, the peo-

ple of Los Angeles resort
to their play with a vigor
and interest that is bound-
less in its enthusiasm.

These are the things
which have attracted hun-
dreds of thousands of per-
sons to Southern Califor-
nia from other places
throughout the world, and
the recreational advan-
tages which have thus
proven a magnet to so
many people will be found
of intense interest to those
who participate in the
meeting of the world’s
play leaders.

Upon such a well adapt-
ed natural foundation,
public organizations have
built a system of recrea-

 

play opportunities of

f the

creation Congress

Southern California within the reach of all who desire
them.
In the City of Los Angeles

The city of Los Angeles annually spends $850,000
in the operation of its public Playground and
Recreation system, while an additional $400,000 is
spent by the county of Los Angeles. During the
year 1931 the sum of $1,000,000 was voted to the
municipal Playground and Recreation Department
nd another $1,000,000 to the Park Department to be
used for the double purpose of expanding and im-
roving public recreational facilities and furnishing
employment to hundreds of workmen. The result
of this expenditure is now apparent in the host of
-modern structures and other improvements of
the very latest type in design and construction which
l ave since risen in Los Angeles.

Included in the present system operated by the
ity Playground and Recreation Department under the
eadership of Superintendent Raymond E. Hoyt there
are at present 48 munici-
pal playgrounds, 13 muni—
cipal swimming pools, 4
ocean bathing beaches, 5
vacation camps, recreation
piers, boat houses, beach
bathhouses and other fa-
cilities too numerous to
mention. The estimated
valuation of this recrea—
tion system is at present
approximately $15,000,-
000. Its abstract value to
the nearly twenty million
persons w ho annually
make use of it is of course
immeasurable in terms of
dollars and cents.

The Los Angeles muni-
cipal playgrounds, in ad-
dition to their many new
and modern facilities,
boast of a program of ac-
tivities well worth the
serious study of recreation

E.
c-v-
"t
p.)

 

leaders every-
where. In ad—
dition to the
regular p r o -
gram of play
found at the
average play-
ground, a bal-
anced program
of special ac-
tivities carried
on either con-
tinuously o r
seasonally pro-
vide a means
of expression
for every kind
0 f tempera-
ment and touch
upon the spe-
cial interest of
all types of in-
dividuals. The
municipal play-
grounds a re
open through-
out the year,
receiving their
principal u s e
a f t e r school
hours. During
vacation p e -
riods, all day programs of recreation featuring special
interest activities are provided.

In addition to their rapidly increasing use by Los
Angeles children the municipal playgrounds are show-
ing constant growth in their service to adults. The
various community clubhouses of the city, built along
the graceful lines of old California architecture and
equipped with recreation halls, club rooms, kitchens,
and similar recreational facilities, are neighborhood
“town houses” where social, musical, dramatic and
other types of recreation are fostered.

Adult recreation at municipal play centers of Los
Angeles is also receiving an increasing stimulus
through the installation of night lighting equipment
which makes these centers available to those who
must work throughout the day. Lighted baseball dia-
monds, volley ball courts, tennis courts 'and other
evening recreational facilities have been, established.

In a city which, during one of the most rapid ex-
pansion periods known to modern times, has increased
its traffic hazard and crime problem along with its
population, the municipal recreation centers have won

441

 

The city offers you beautiful
out-of-door fetes and pageants.

442 Los ANGELES—HOST 'OF THE RECREATION CONGRESS

the confidence of the pub—
‘lic because of their count—
-er attack upon these two
situations. While traffic
accidents have increased
everywhere, the Los An-
geles municipal play-
grounds have exhibited the
welcome anomaly of a
constantly decreasing acci-
dent rate. While crime
waves have alarmed the
public everywhere, th e
Los Angeles municipal
playgrounds have proven
excellent deterrents and
preventatives for juvenile

delinquency, a fact borne
out by a recent statement of the Los Angeles

*Chief of Police.

Swimming Facilities Abundant

Just why Los Angeles has produced such world
famous swimmers and divers as Buster Crabbe,
swimming champion at many distances; Georgia
Coleman, national woman’s diving champion;
Harold “Dutch” Smith, national men’s diving
champion; Mickey Riley, Olive Hatch, Dorothy
Poynton, Jennie Cramer and others too numerous
to mention, will be more readily understood when
the magnificent Los Angeles system of municipal
plunges is viewed. I

During the past year an extensive program for
the construction of municipal swimming pools
has been undertaken by the city of Los Angeles,
.and is now nearing completion. During this pe-
riod four big and modern plunges were finished
.and two more are being completed. Each of these
pools is equipped with standard safety devices and
the most advanced type of purification systems
available. Adjoining bathhouse buildings carry
the romance of old California in their graceful
Spanish lines. In many cases year around use
of the bathhouse structures has been insured by
constructing them in such a way that they are
serviceable both as a bathhouse and as a com—
lmunity club house.

Among the plunges now in construction is the
huge Los Angeles Olympic Swimming Pool
and Stadium, destined to be the greatest com-
petitive swimming center in the United States,
perhaps in the world. Plans of the Playground
and Recreation Department for this project call
for a swimming pool of metric dimensions

dinil 
.F ‘13:: 1::

.l.

 

The swimming stadium under construction for the Olympic
Games has a concrete grandstand seating 5,000 people.

equipped with steel diving towers and provided
with everything required by the rules of inter-
national aquatics competition. A massive steel
and concrete stadium adjoining the plunge will
seat 5,000 spectators. Underneath this stand will
be a two-story bathhouse which will include team
dressing quarters, a gymnasium, club rooms, and
other facilities. The Olympic pool, which will
be all deep water, will be fianked by a semi-
circular shallow pool for general recreational use,
and the entire layout will be beautifully land-
scaped to provide a setting for outdoor plays and
water pageants. In addition to the use of this
center for the aquatic sports of the Olympic
Games, it is also to be the site of numerous great
competitive meets of the future.

On both the western and southern ocean fronts
of Los Angeles public beach playgrounds serve
millions of persons yearly. An efiicient and
highly trained corps of lifeguards is provided
by the Los Angeles Playground and Recreation
Department to protect the lives of bathers at the
beaches. The Venice beach has recently been
equipped with one of the finest municipal piers
to be found on any shore, the Sunset pier and
recreation center. On this structure is located a
modern bathhouse serving the public at reduced
rates, an outdoor auditorium, and a big glass-
enclosed picnic center equipped with the most
modern of conveniences.

On the southern coast, one of the most unique
oceanside playgrounds in the United States is
being developed at Cabrillo Beach located at the
foot of the government breakwater at Los Angeles
Harbor. Cabrillo Beach, which was reclaimed
several years ago from the rocks and reefs by the

LOS ANGELES—HOST 'OF THE RECREATION CONGRESS 443

dumping of one million cubic yards of sand, has
now become a center for all forms of boating and
fishing as well as for swimming. A boathouse
that looks like a Spanish lighthouse serves as a
municipal yacht club, providing a headquarters
for sail boat races, motor boat races, speed boat
and excursion trips, fishing excursions and other
forms of marine recreation. A big bathhouse and
general recreation building is being completed at
Cabrillo Beach, and a program of artistic land-
scaping and construction of play facilities now
under way is expected to help in making Cabrillo

Beach the Waikiki of California.

Other Recreational Opportunities Offered

The multiple recreational advantages offered by
the towering mountain ranges close to Los An-
geles have not been overlooked by the city.
Municipal camps located at scenic spots in Na-
tional Forests
provide low-
cost vacations
for the Lo 5
Angeles public
amid scenes of
b e a u t y and
quiet. Two of
these c a m p s
are located in
the San Ber-
nardino moun-
tains at dis-
tances of 75
and 95 miles
respectively
from the city.
A third camp
is situated in
the mighty
High Sierras,
“C a 1i fornia’s
Alps,” at a dis-
tance of 335
miles from Los Angeles. These mile-high play-
grounds make it possible for families of limited
means to visit and enjoy the recreational features
which nature has provided without the large ex-
pense. For the use of children, camps for boys
and girls are Operated in the wilds of Griflith
Park, much closer to the city.

Not content to provide only the places and the
facilities for the enjoyment of public recreation,
the Los Angeles Department of Playground and
Recreation goes far alield in offering its services

 

Los Angeles has many municipal plunges. The swim-
ming pool at Griffith Park is among the most attractive.

to those who desire them, whether or not such
services are used in connection with public play
centers.

A program of industrial recreation reaches out
to the industries of the city, organizing their em-
ployees for participation in all forms of recrea-
tional activities. Instruction classes in every pop-
ular sport. games and playdays, organized hikes
and outings, horseback trips, social events, musical
and dramatic activities and a host of other forms
of play are made as readily available to those who
must toil throughout the day as they are to those
of greater leisure. Similarly a far Hung program
of organized sports makes it possible for those
who have ended their school athletic days to con-
tinue along the lines of recreational enjoyment
that they have chosen. Numerous musical and
dramatic organizations cater in like manner to
the interests of recreation seekers wherever they
may be in the
city.

The Los An-
geles municipal
P 1 a y g r ound
and Recreation
D 'e p a r tment,
the hrst of its
kind to be es-
tablished in the
United States
and now in its
twenty-seventh
year of service,
has developed
to the p o i n t
where it may
be an object of
valuable study
t o recreation
leaders of all
c o m m unities.
So varied are
t h e problems
of all the year around recreation in Los Angeles,
so numerous are the types of public play centers
and public play offered in this city, that practically
every form of municipal recreation service to be
found anywhere is here exemplified.

Los Angeles County a Vast Playground

The Los Angeles County Department of Rec-

reation Camps and Playgrounds, with an annual
budget of $400,000, under the leadership hof Fred
E. Wadsworth, Superintendent, administers five

444 L05 :lA‘GbLbS—HOST OF THE RECREATION (.‘ONURESS

and a halt miles of state and county owned public
beach frontage, including the model area at Santa
Monica Canyon. The Department also adminis-
ters the county owned regional areas and has a
Community Service division which serves the
unincorporated area of the county.

The chief of the regional areas is the Big
'l‘ines Recreation Camp located in the mountains
ninety-six miles from Los Angeles. The pro-
gram at Big Pines is widely diversified, and
attracts an annual attendance of two hundred and

rinks and an “ash-can” slide. Being at an eleva—
tion of seven thousand feet, it has snow and ice
for from four to six months each year. From
ten to twenty thousand people journey to this
mountain area each week, and the peak attendance
for last year was 21,000 in one day. this figure
having been reached on the last day of the Winter
Sports Carnival. The county program is unique
in that the Department conducts summer and win-
ter activities at the same time. Ten life-guards
are retained the entire year, as the weather at the

 

fifty thousand people. In the sum-
mer time the area functions as a
free camping ground and is a cen-
ter for summer camps of Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls, and the allied groups. The fourteen or-
ganization camps with dining halls and bunk
houses maintained for the groups have an average
attendance during the summer of a thousand boys
and girls each day. The program for campers
conducted under leadership throughout the sum-
mer months includes swimming classes, nature
hikes, handicraft classes, social activities, and daily
programs in the outdoor theatre.

During the winter, the Big Pines Camp is con-
verted into a winter sports area with skating,
skiing, tobogganing and all other winter sports
conducted by trained leaders. The Camp has
six toboggan slides, three ski jumps, two skating

The Recreation Lodge
at Camp Seeley, one of
the municipal mountain
camps of Los Angeles.

beach encourages swimming in
spite of the fact that the mountains
may be covered with snow.

The county-wide tournaments
are centered at the County Fair
Grounds, and in the past year sports tournaments,
harmonica contests, dramatic tournaments, and
horseshoe tournaments have been conducted there.
At the annual horseshoe tournament staged jointly
by the city and county recreation departments,
696 games were played in a six-day event to de~
termine the county championship.

The county Department is also the sponsor of
the Los Angeles County Drama Association, an
affiliation of forty-seven Little Theatre groups in
the county designed to stimulate the development
of Community Theatres. \

The population of Los Angeles, made “recrea—
(Continued on page 467)

The International Advisory Committee

of the

International Recreation Congress

HEREVER high ideals of clean

sportsmanship are cherished, the
name of the 17th Earl of Derby
(Edward George Villiers Stanley) is
honored. As a member of the Jockey
Club he is the representative of the
highest traditions of the turf, and as
Chairman of the National Playing
Fields Association he is leading a
movement which stands for sportsman—
ship. He has served his country in
many capacities—as Postmaster Gen-
eral, as Director General of Recruit-

ing, as Secretary of State for War, and as Ambas-

sador to France.

R. LEWALD was born in 1860

in Berlin. Since 1900 he has been
an active and effective promoter of the
physical education movement in Ger—
many. Elected in 1919 as President
of the German National Commission
for Physical Training, he served at the
same time as Chairman of the German
Committee for Olympic Games. He
was Commissary of the German Em-
pire at the World’s Fair in Paris in
1900 and in St. Louis in 1904. In
1924 he was selected to represent Ger-
many on the International Olympic Committee,
and since 1926 has been a member of the Execu-

 

Honor-

Herbert Hoover,

ary President First inter-

national Recreation Con-
gress

 

The
Derby K.G., (3.0.8., (3.0.
V.O., London, England

Rt. Hon. Earl of

Lord Derby is known
and appreciated by all
classes and has won their
affectionate regard. As
President of the Pil-
grims and of the Travel
Association of Great
Britain and Ireland, he is
showing that his sympa—
thies are not bounded by
national frontiers. His
ideal is that Britain shall
be known as a nation

dominated by standards of fair play.

tive Committee of the
International Olympic
Committee. He is Presi—
dent of the German Life
S a vi n g Society and
Chairman of the Cura-
torial Board of the Ger-
man College for Physical
Education. His service
to his country includes
his holding of the oche
of Secretary of State in
the National Ministry of
the Interior.

 

Theodor Lewaid, Dr.

jur. H.C., University of

Bonn LL.D., UnIVerslty

of Wisconsin, Berlin, Ger-
' many

PLANS for the International Recreation Congress are proceeding most encouragingly, and

much interest is being shown.

Visitors from Europe, Asia, South America and other coun—

tries have come to the office of the National Recreation Association to offer suggestions, and a
number of Americans traveling abroad during the past year have helped to spread the word and
to arouse interest 'in the 1932 meeting. Running through the replies received and the confer-
ences held is a note of enthusiastic appreciation that such a meeting is being planned. There are
many expressions of hope regarding the possibilities in this opportunity for an international
exchange of information.

445

R. MASARYKOVA, internation-

ally known for her activities in
connection with the Czechoslovak Red
Cross, of which she is President, was
born in 1879. She studied medicine
and philosophy at the Universities of
Prague, Leipzig and Berlin, and later
spent two years in Chicago studying
methods of social
work. Upon her
r e t u r n from
America she was
active as professor
in a college for
girls, but during
that time she de-
voted herself to
social work prob-
lems. It was un-
der her leadership
that a school for
social work was
Opened in Prague
and within the past few years she or-
ganized the principal private social
work agencies of Czechoslovakia in a
National Health Council.

Dr. Masarykova’s activities since
the war have centered chiefly about
the Red Cross which is giving much
attention to recreation through the
establishment of several recreation
homes for children and the organiza-
tion each year of over thirty summer
camps for children.
The so-called Red
Cross T r u c e ,
stressing public
health problems
and held each year
on the Saturday
before Easter in
hundreds of towns
and villages, was
inaugurated by Dr.
Masarykova who is
associated with all
public and private
welfare movements
in Czechoslovakia.

Prague,

OUNT DE BAILLET LATOUR
is internationally known for the
contribution he has made to the pro-
motion of the Olympic Games. Since
1903 he has been a member of the
International Olympic Committee,
serving as Chairman of the Olympic
Games in Antwerp in 1920. At the
present time he is President of the
International Olympic Committee.
Count de Baillet Latour has always
shown great interest in the develop-
ment of playing fields.

446

 

Dr. Alice G. Masarykova
Czechoslovakia

 

Count de Baillet Latour
Brussels, Belgium

NE of the pioneers in the physical

education movement in Hungary,
Dr. Szukovathy is known as Royal
Medical Councillor in recognition of
his work in the field of physical edu'
cation and hygiene. He is Director
of the Royal Hungarian College of
Physical Education, Co-President of
the National Boy
Scout Association,
A d ministrative
Vice- President of
the Hungarian Ju-
nior Red Cross,
Vice-President of
the Home for Crip-
pled Children,

President of the
Hungarian Sport
Physicians’ Socie-

ty. and a member
of the Committee
of the Hungarian
Public Hygiene Society and of the
Board of Physical Education. His
international relationships include
membership on the Executive Com-
mittee of the International Sport Phy-
sicians’ Association. He is also a
member of the International \Vissen-
schaftliche Gesellschaft fiir Korper-
liche Erziehung, and a corresponding
member of the American Academy of
Physical Education. All of these or-
ganizations are ac-
tive to some degree
in the recreation
field. During the
past year Dr. Szu-
kovathy has or-
ganized and con-
ducted a holiday
course for teachers
of physical educa-
tion, both men and
women, and has
given promotional
talks over the ra-
dio. He is editor
of Good Health, a periodical.

 

Szukovathy
Budapest, Hungary

Dr. I.

 

Wanda Prazmowska
Warsaw, Poland

 

Lauri Pihkala, M.A.
Helsinki, Finland

185 Prazmowska, after com-

pleting high school in 1919, en—
tered the University of Warsaw, re-
ceiving in 1924 a diploma as teacher
of natural history and physical edu-
cation. She has always been inter-
ested in scouting and since 1921 has
been an oil‘icial of the girl scout move-
ment. A number
of camps and
courses in camping
have been organ-
ized under her
leadership.

In 1927 Miss
Prazomowska be-
came associated
with the Govern-
mental Board for
Physical Education
where she is chief
of the women’s di-
vision. She has
made a special study of children’s
playgrounds and has visited a number
of American cities studying their play-
ground systems. The lirst model play-
ground for children in \Varsaw was
built under her leadership. Miss
Prazmowska is President of the Polish
Handball Union.

R. PIHKALA, President of the
Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic
Association of Fin-
land, was born in
1888. After a trip
to the United
States in 1912-
1913, he introduced
many modern meth-
ods of training into
the track and held
athletics of Finland
through the publi-
catiOn of a. number
of text books and
new5paper articles
and by serving as
Coaching Secretary for the A. A. U.
in Finland, 1913-1917. Later he be»
came Athletic Director of the Gen-
eral Staffs of the Army and the Vol-
untary Militia of his country. Through
frequent trips to America Mr. Pihkala
has been a close student of recreational
activities in this country. He is known
as the creator of a batting the ball
team game, a substitute for baseball
in Finland which is rapidly growing
into a national game. He has been
associated with all Finnish Olympic
teams since 1908 and for many years
was a member of the board of man-

agers of the Track and Field Asso-
ciation of Finland, repeatedly repre-
senting his country at congresses of
the International Amateur Athletic
Federation.

MR. THOMAS, who represents

France on the International Ad-
visory Committee of the International
Recreation Congress, is a graduate of
the Ecole Normale Superieure and
later was professor of industrial his-
tory in that institution.
During the war he was
a member of the War
Cabinet and was re-
sponsible for organizing
the industrial man
power'of France. Mr.
Thomas is Director of
the International Labor
Office at Geneva and
had an important part
in_framing the recom-
mendations on labor
drawn up at the Ge-
neva Conference in
June, 1924. He has been at the head
of the leisure movement in France,
as organized in the Fédération Na-
tionale des Cooperatives de Consom-
mation, and its Comité National des
Loisirs, serving as Chairman of the
latter group which has done some very
effective and practical work within the
c00perative movement. As a result of
its activities there have been estab-
lished in France various vacation
groups and colonies.
vacation centers or sum-
mer hotels, a movement
has been started for the
beautification of the
home, and various kinds
of cultural groups and
vacation homes for
children have been or-
ganized.

ORN in 1879, Mr.

Langkilde became
Director of Physical
Instruction in Copen—
hagen in 1919. As Secretary of the
C0penhagen Playground Association
he has been active in arranging School
Sport Days in that city.

DDITIONAL members of the In-

ternational Advisory Committee
are Dr. Ricardo C. Aldao, Buenos
Aires, Argentina; Captain G. Van
Rossem, Amsterdam, Holland, and
Senor Julio J. Rodriguez, Uruguay.

 

Albert Thomas
Geneva, Switzerland

 

H. P. Langkilde
Copenhagen, Denmark

The First World Congress
on Recreation

WORLD Congress on Recreation
is the next significant event on

the horizon of the recreation move-

ment.

All eyes are turning toward Los
Angeles, where in July, 1932, for the
first time delegates from
all parts of the world
will gather to exchange
experiences and to con-
sider how leisure may
be made to serve man-
kind.

For more than a year
plans for this meeting
have been developing,
and the response from
the four corners of the
world has again justi—
fied the belief that the
interest in recreation is
universal.

A distinguished group of men and
women, prominent in the affairs of
the various cooperating nations, is
now being formed into an Interna-
tional Advisory Committee. With the
endorsement of President Hoover,
who is serving as Honorary Presi-
dent of the Congress, and with the
active c00peration of the State De-
partment, invitations have been trans-
mitted through diplo-
matic channels to over
fifty other nations.

Pamphlets printed in
foreign languages to-
gether with invitations
have been distributed to
all organizations and in-
dividuals in other coun—
tries listed with the Na-
tional Recreation Asso—
ciation. Over 1,500 such
invitations have been
issued.

Thus far nearly fifty
delegates from twenty-two countries
have reported that they are coming.
Another group of sixty names from
thirty-three countries are listed as
prospective delegates.

Newspapers and periodicals in for-
eign countries for some months past
have carried announcements and edi-
torials about this world meeting. In
some countries certain organizations
are taking responsibility for further

interest in the Congress. In other
countries special committees are being
organized to see that their countries
are adequately represented.

Time and Place July 23rd to 29th,
1932, Los Angeles, California

The time and place for the First
International R e c r e a t i o n Congress
were set to accord with the Olympic
Games. It was felt that this occasion
would naturally bring together repre—
sentatives from many countries who
would have an interest in the general
field of community recreation as well
as in the Olympic Games. Combin-
ing the two events would result in a
great saving of time and money, es-
pecially for delegates from countries
other than the United States.

The Congress will Open on Satur-
day, July 23rd, and close on Friday,
July 29th. The Olympic Games will
open the next day, Saturday, July
30th. The Congress and the _Olym-
pics will be held in Los Angeles. This
arrangement will make it possible for
a delegate to attend both without any
loss of time and without additional
expense between these two world

events.

Reservations for Olympic Tickets

Already reservations for tickets to
the Olympic Games are pouring in.
In order to protect Recreation Con-
gress delegates, a block of seats has
been reserved until December 1, 1931.
These must be taken up before that
date. All Congress delegates are urged
to write or wire directly to the Olym-
pic Committee, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, for tickets and to specify that
reservations should be in the Recrea—
tion Congress section. This is pre-
ferred space and will not be reserved
after December Ist.

An active local arrangements com
mittee for some months has been mak-
ing plans for tours, demonstrations,
exhibits and other features that will
make the Los Angeles meeting of ut-
most value to all who attend from
this country or other lands.

This Congress indeed offers an un-
usual Opportunity. It is worth consid-
ering. It is worth planning for. It is
worth sacrificing for.

447

Orphans and Athletics

The story of the transforming
power of play in the starved

lives of orphaned refugees.

By Allen McMahon

Near East Foundation

I-CTURE a vast plain, once the parade
P ground of the soldiers of the Russian Czar,

at Alexandropol, now Leninakan, Armenia,
with gray barracks scattered about which, if put
end to end, would streach for a mile, where 22,000
orphaned children lived and first learned the rudi-
ments of play under the guidance of American
relief workers.

Dr. Mabel E. Elliott, in her book Beginning
Again at Ararat, said, “There was not one healthy
child among them. Fourteen hospitals were
opened, but every orphanage was also a hospital,
every child was a patient, and medical treatment
was as much a part of the
orphanage routine as meal
time.”

These children, of
whom there were alto-
gether 132,000 in orphan-
ages in various Near
Eastern areas, are spoken
of in Dr. James L.
Barton’s Story of Near East Relief as follows:

“They were blighted in their schooling and
starved in body and soul. They were gathered
from the highways and the refugee camps, wan-
dering vagabonds searching for a morsel of food,
ragged waifs casting their uncertain lot with the
old, the decrepit and the sick. Disease, from the

448

play ball.H

proud.

"They would sit in the warm sun against a
wall, but the were afraid to come out and
fhere is a happy sequel to this,

however, for later through the play program
many of these same frightened little waifs have
become outstanding athletes with standards of
sportsmanship of which any nation might be

insanitary, crowded camps, had covered many
with repulsive sores and made them untouchable.
They lived in dirt and filth without a change of
clothing for their shredded rags, vermin infested.
The unclean, wizened, emaciated, pathetic faces,
pleading for bread, gave no hint of a forgotten
happiness, an abandoned home. Hunger was
stalking about on feeble skeleton legs, in a leather,
mummith skin stretched tightly over protrud-
ing bones, with eyes that did not see but only
stared. .From such as these was to come the re-
cruited childhood of tomorrow, the hope of _a
new Near East.”

Letters from overseas workers in those days
just after the war when American relief work
was in its infancy, were full of stories of these
prematurely aged little ones. The burden of the
plaint was that they knew not how to play.
Tragedy was their keynote, apathy had become a
tradition. They would sit in the warm sun against
a wall, but they were afraid to come out and play

ball.
Play to the Rescue!

Little by little, with infinite patience in coax-
ing, the Americans began to teach play. Slowly,
as the orphanage school work grew, play strength-
ened in the program. Gradually baseball, foot-
ball, basketball teams were organized. As the
boys and girls began to emerge from the orphan-
ages, at the age of sixteen,
to take their places in the
workaday world, through
their clubs and leagues an
athletic standard was set
up, until in the last few
years certain phenomena
have appeared, when one
considers the m a t e r i al
which went into the making of Near East
“athletes.”

Recently the Near East orphan basketball team
was awarded the championship of Greece, that
ancient home of classic sports. A young Arme-
nian in Egypt holds the lightweight boxing cham-
pionship. A soccer match, arranged between boys

ORPHANS AND ATHLETICS 449

of the Near East League, all sturdy artisans, and
students in the American University of Beirut,
representing seven races, was won by the orphan
boys. Time and time again the sportsmanship of
Near East boys and girls, whether on the win—
ning or the losing side, receives commendation in
the local press.

Near East Foundation, organized a year ago to
succeed Near East Relief, follows that organiza-
tion’s work in orphanage schools by transmitting
America’s health, agricultural, child and com—
munity welfare and leadership training technique
to the underprivileged masses of the Near East,
among whom the 132,000 orphanage-trained chil-
dren are now living.

In, the Foundation’s program re-creation is
serving as an aid to character building, to better
health and living and to better inter-racial under-
standing.

It has been
said' that the
character of a
race is formed
by its recrea—
tive activities.

' Good sports- a
manship, team
play and co-
operation a r e
ideals equally
of' w e s t e r n
play and west—
ern culture. In
the Near East,
w h e r e play,
particularly
group play, is
a l m o s t un-
known, indi-
vidualism i s
the keynote of the social order. But the East is
changing. Recreation as a re-creative force slow-
ly is entering its social consciousness. Child life;
long ignored, at last is stirring the interest of pro-
gressive leaders who are investigating the experi-
ences of other nations in order to give better
opportunities to its new generations.

The psychological value of recreation was
proved again and again in the American orphan-
ages of the Near East. Games, music and play
helped to efface the tragic memories of war and to
train children whose health, morale and character
are admittedly above those of the average child in
a Near Eastern home.

 

Truly western enthusiasm for sports is displayed by these
boys on the field supplied at the Cairo Welfare Center.

Night schools, athletics, orchestras and clubs,
all varying expressions of re-creaton, were estab—
lished by Near East Relief to sustain the better
living standards of the orphans. Near East
Foundation has taken over these activities and is
enlarging them to meet the needs of orphan and
other underprivileged youth. The existing work
is the wstarting point from which the Foundation
is launchingits new educational program in better
living for working boys and girls of all creeds

and races.

Welfare Centers and Night Schools

Homes for working boys and girls, established
by Near East Relief, have been taken over by the
Foundation and are being reorganized as Welfare
Centers. Facilities have been increased and the
service originally limited to orphans is now avail-
able to other
working boys
a n d gi r l s .
Supervision is
m a i n t a i ne d
over older
members who
club together
in u n i t s of
three or four
in their own
rooms near the
Centers. Con-
sultant service
on health and
morale p r o b-
lems and rec-
reational a n (1
night school
activities a r 6
meeting defi-
nite needs. In
most Centers a daily hot meal is served at cost.

To many homeless boys, the Centers stand for
the comfort and security of home. Welfare Cen—
ters in Cairo and Alexandria are noteworthy illus—
trations of what this service can mean to a group
of working boys and girls. The Centers are
housed in buildings of utility and charm which
the Foundation has rented and equipped for sim—
ple cafeteria service, reading rooms, and dormi—
tories. They also provide night school classes,
athletic activities, employment and health bureaus
and even take the traditional place of the oriental
parent by arranging marriages among the orphan
children. An average of six hundred attend the

450 ORPHANS AND ATHLETICS

“home-coming” or get-together which is held each
month. Reed M. Davidson, father—in-eifect to all
the former orphanage children in Egypt, directs
the Foundation’s program there.

Welfare Centers under the Foundation’s super—
vision includes five in Athens (three for boys and
‘two for girls) and others in Syria and Palestine.

Of increasing importance are the night schools
conducted by the Foundation in connection with
the Welfare Centers. In lands where great un-
employment has created keenest competition, the
Foundation is helping boys of ability to become
master craftsmen and to secure the general educa-
tion which means a decent living. Twelve hun-
dred boys and girls who toil in shops and fac-
tories all day are enrolled in our night schools.
Courses in religious education are also a part of
the night school program, and in Athens are con-

 

ducted by graduates of the American School of
Religion in Greece, and by special representatives
of the Greek Archbishopric or graduates from the
Athens University Theological School.

Playgrounds

The Foundation is maintaining model play-
grounds for children in Bulgaria, Greece and
Syria. Lessons in health and better living are
part of the playground ritual and are carried into
the home through a follow-up service.

In Sofia, the Foundation conducts three play-
grounds in the poorest sections of the city at a
cost of about $1,000 a year each. The daily
attendance of the largest is well over 1,600 a day.
A nutritious national beverage is served daily.

Equipment, home-made and c0pied from Ameri-
can playground catalogues, includes shower baths,
swings and slides. L. E. Feldmahn, Russian
exile, formerly a member of the Russian Council
of Empire, is the Foundation’s representative in
Bulgaria.

The Foundation has been requested to equip
and maintain in cooperation with the local gov-
ernment a model playground and athletic field in
Beirut, available to all ages. A suitable site now
is under consideration and the project should be
an actuality in a few mOnths.

A model playing field is now in course of con-
struction in
the Kaisariani
refugee camp
in Athens
w h e r e the
Foundation is demonstrat-
in g an anti-tuberculosis
project. The new field is
opposite the school founded
by the wife of Premier
Venizelos. In order to help
refugee families and others
to understand the value of
play in the health of their
children, the entire front of
the playground will be
fenced with open screening
for observation instead of
the usual stone wall. The
grounds will be equipped to
provide active play interest
for all ages. One section
will be set aside for the use
of little children. There
will be a playing field for
competitive games and simple equipment for
physical education.

A special recreation program also will be in-
stalled to coordinate with the Foundation’s tuber-
culosis prevention work. The same group of pre-
tuberculous school children who are receiving
supplementary feedings, clinic care, and occa-
sional rest in Camp Penteli, soon will have health-
building play under the Foundation’s supervision
in the new playground.

Children of a Syrian village
learn to swim with the help of
a Near East Foundation nurse.

Athletics

Competitive games are helping to create inter-
racial friendships which augur well for a better
understanding, and already have strengthened the
position of the Armenian refugees in Syria.

ORPHANS AND ATHLETICS 451

Orphan athletic teams are a source of pride to
their local communities. In Beirut they meet and
match their strength with the skilled teams of
Beirut University, the latter drawn from leading
families of many races. Although the orphan
athletes are working boys, and in many cases
have no practice field, their good sportsmanship
in victory or defeat has won many friends.

Athletics are part of the program of the Near
East League, an organization of orphans which,
under Foundation direction, is Opening its privi-
leges to all working boys and girls. The League
has branches in Beirut, Aleppo, Zahle, Damascus,
Rayak, Ghazir, Antilyas, Bikfaya, Alexandretta,
Beit—Shebal, Jubeil and Rakka. Its active mem-
bers now number 1,000 and 2,500 other graduates
of orphanage schools are reached through its
various activities.

The Foundation’s recreation program in Syria
is in the experienced hands of William M. Jessop,
a veteran director of boys’ work in America and
oversees. He maintains supervision over the
orphans, is deve10ping the Near East League as
an inter-racial activity and is working .with local
officials to establish a model athletic held in
Beirut.

In Egypt, as in Syria, recreation serves to over-
come inter-racial antagonisms. On the athletic
fields maintained in connection with the Founda-
tion’s Welfare Centers in Cairo and Alexandria,
many a racial barrier is amiably
kicked out of bounds in the foot—
ball games between native Egyp-
tian and refugee Armenian boys.

Among 136 certificates re-
cently awarded by the National
Federation of Greece, 36 of the
distinguished awards in this
ancient home of athletes have
gone to the orphan boys for
whom Near East Foundation
maintains playground and athletic
activities. The boys have won
their way up from starvation to
physical fitness. One of them
has been selected to enter the
Balkan competitions next year as
a representative of Greece. Most
of these boys would have no
chance for an education but for
Near East Foundation schools.

Community Welfare

Recreation is proving a suc-

 

Play has helped to restore
his heritage of happiness.

cessful stimulant to village interest in the devel—
opment of the Foundation’s Rural Life Program.
Among people in isolated farm-villages, already
devitalized by disease, idleness is the only alterna—
tive'to physical labor. When work slackens there
is nothing else to do but drowse against a sun-
baked wall. Village life stagnates. Minds are
dulled“. , _, ,

To re-create apathetic village life, methods and
equipment recommended by the National Recrea-
tion Association are being used. Night classes are
organized for the illiterate. Village libraries, or
reading rooms, improvised with a few books,
magazines and pictures, are hailed with joy. Sim-
ple games, an occasional informal talk on a local
subject, a program of folk music, or stereopticon
pictures, any of these can stir a village out of
chronic lethargy. In several villages creditable
orchestras are the result of musical instruments
given to talented children. A soccer—football is
the pride of the younger men while others hnd
equal satisfaction in less strenuous games.

Obviously such a program easily can be carried
on by the villagers themselves, once the impetus
is giyen. Equipment is very simple and costs

'little. Leadership soon develops through activity.

The American-trained young pe0ple who live
among the farmers are quick to grasp and pro-

mote the idea.

Under the Rural Life Program in Macedonia
a community reading room, the
first in all Greece, was recently
opened in Kyrghia, a village of
600 people, all families of hard
working farmers. The Village
Cooperative Society made con-
tributions of rent and furniture
equivalent to half the cost. The
village mail carrier, who brings
in the mail from the railroad sta—
tion, twelve miles distant, acts as

supervisor.

Health Through Play

Better health for all is being
sought through recreation by the
Foundation’s health director
among the refugee farm villages
in Syria. On the theory that one
is never too young to learn, Miss
A. E. Slack is starting With the
infant in the cradle and persuad-
ing mothers to unwind the tradi-

(Continued on page 468)

Friendships

International

By Dorothy Reed

Camp Councillor

 

In these beautiful surroundings good
will among nations is being built up.

Important steps toward international

foundation for international rela-

understanding are taken in a camp where tions,

girls from five lands play together.

girls from five nations started another

camp day together. A dip in the cold
North Sea, and then as the flag reached the top
of the staff, America, Australia, Canada, Ger-
many and Norway saluted with song the Norwe-
gian colors.

On a f jord in the hills just west of Risr, a fish-
ing village on the southwest coast of Norway,
there is a beautiful old estate, now the first inter-
national summer camp for girls in the world, and
the First of all girls’ camps in the north of
Europe. Two young women of Norway took
the American camp idea back with them to their
own country after learning to know American
camps and camping, and foresaw an opportunity
in a new field. Near the manor house, an old
great white house of big rooms and old tiled
stoves and furnishings of years ago, are smaller
houses of brown stained wood—Peisestua, the
fireplace cottage; Dueslage, the pigeon house;
Selstua, the sun house; Skogstua, the hill or
woods house. And where formal guests were
once entertained, new international friendships
are fostered
and an under-
standing 0 f
customs an d
viewpoints is
building the
452

REVEILLE blew in Camp Viking and sixty

So successful was the first season of the Viking Camp that plans
have been made for two additional camps, one in England and
another in Germany, to be opened in the summer of 1932 when the
Viking Camp of Norway will again be conducted.

Swimming was the favorite
activity. When the chillINorth
Sea was too wind-whipped or
when a certain tide brought an
unusual host of the great red-brown jellyfish to
the bathing house, the fjord on the west, crystal
clear between its high cliff walls, was quite as' fine
a swimming pool with diving stands on rocky
ledges of the cliff. Because of the barrier of
language, the American sports councillor was
forced to teach in sign language and with a mix—
ture of Norwegian and German, punctuated with
more familiar English!

American baseball, quite unknown to these
girls, was taught by the same mixture of lan-
guage, but when once mastered it was quite the
most popular of the land sports. Baseball terms
were never quite American as spoken by these
girls—they “beat” the ball with the “stick,” and
all the basemen were “fieldermen,” and an inning
was a “play.” Each group taught its favorite
games to the other campers, and on rainy days the
Turn Halle resounded with the rhythm of old folk
dances and folk games. Saturday nights, stunt
nights, brought forth the legends, the customs
and the fun of the national groups.

Camping a New Venture

Camping is a
n ew venture
for girls of
n o r t h e r n
Europe and
Scandinavia,

FRIENléIPS INTERNATIONAL 453

and activities that are such a part of American
camp programs must grow very gradually. Camp
fires were not introduced until August began to
darken the skies before taps, for it was broad day-
light until eleven o’clock the first weeks of camp
and the ten o’clock sunset held far more charm
than snapping juniper sparks before dusk. Camp
songs were in the three languages and one was
never sung without the other two immediately

following. The German girls had a wealth of.

folk music and wander songs, and many an hour
was spent with guitar, mouth organ and accordion
accompanying the part singing .as these girls
taught their songs of wood and mountain to the
other campers. The Norwegian girls also sang
many of the folk songs of the north, and the
American campers felt keenly the lack of folk
music, and particularly of “wander songs,” in
their own land.

“Tripping” was a'very new adventure and each
wander group that left camp was sent OPE with
farewells that might well have been accorded the
venturing pioneers; their return was hailed with
cheers and a welcome due the Arctic explorers.
Dressed in overalls of gayest colors, each girl
with her own bulging ruck sack, a group started
out every week to wander through the woods and
along the fjords and the sea, not by the road, but
following the compass over trails and rocks. The

country people were much interested to learn of
the new camp and there was always a welcome,
fresh milk, the offer of a hayloft for the night’s
lodging, a “lift” in a village bus, a farm. wagon
or a fisherman’s boat, and pay enough were the
tales and songs of camp life.

As camp days were ended and the campers

‘ turned toward home and school days, the doors of

the big house did not shut but remained open to,
welcome the girls of the international winter
school. From September to the Christmas holi-
days, the girls of the nations study together and
in the biting air of the north lands they ski and go
skating together. On cold nights_by the fire, the
music and legends of the nations are shared. Fol-
lowing the holidays they travel south together to
live in a pension in Nice and continue their stud-
ies and play, and to “trip” into the Alps until
school days again give way to camp days.

The friendships that grow out of the weeks to-
gether despite the barrier of languages, the un-
derstanding and exchange of customs and stand-
ards, working and playing together, are the first
steps toward international understanding and, in
the language of camp song:

Jo mbre vi ja sammen, ja sammen, ja sammen,

Jo mere sympati!

(The more we are together, the happier we
will be.)

Recreation in Norway

ATURE has been generous in her gifts of

rugged beauty in Norway, but because of this
very ruggedness the life of the Norwegian folk,
with the exception, perhaps, of Oslo and Bergen,
is not a life of luxury and comforts. The Nor-
wegians are a hardy people, resourceful, cour-
ageous, persistent in their efforts to wrest from
the rocky land and the sea a suitable living, still
bound by tradition and ancestral custom to a great
extent, simple in their enjoyments and apprecia—
tive of nature.

Public recreation as such is not organized to
any extent. Parks and bathing beaches are main-
tained in Oslo and Bergen but Open fields, natural
beaches and winter playgrounds are, on the whole,
maintained by clubs and organizations of which
there are a countless number. Standing in a rail-
way station on a Saturday afternoon or early
Sunday morning, one realizes the love of the
mountains these northern folk have, for all local

trains into the mountains are crowded with hikers,
if it be summer, with heavy packs and stocks, or
with skiers after the snows have Opened the ski
runs on the mountain sides. There is a keen love
of yachting and all the harbors of all the coast
towns are white with sails on week-end holidays.
Every minute of the long summer evenings is used
to advantage by the Norwegian. The ten o’clock
sunsets give a long evening for play in contrast
to the darkness that settles by three in the after-
noon in the winter. The thorough enjoyment of
play is'evident among all the groups.

In many communities the folk music and dances
are still a very natural activity'in community rec-
reation. On festival days or in the long winter
evenings it is not uncommon to find groups of
young and old, many in costume, singing and
dancing the traditional songs and dances of old

Norway, thus helping materially to preserve the
solidarity of the country.

Playing Fields for Belgian Children

 

Belgium's playing fields are
on the increase, and recrea-
tion is coming into its own.

the program of the schools of Belgium. In

1883 special courses for men and women
school teachers were organized by the govern-
ment during the vacation period. Through the
influence of a Congress of Physical Education
through conferences, demonstrations, newspaper
articles, teachers’ conferences and other means. a
number of city administrations set aside play
spaces in boulevards, public parks,
and in connection with schools,
and made them available for chil-
dren and adults. The systematic
organization of playing fields in
Belgium, however, has been a

more recent development.
In 1903 the City of Brussels

454

I N 1874 games were officially introduced into

opment of
movement

The Director General of the
Red Cross in Belgium sub-
mits a statement of the devel-

the
in that country.
The material has been trans-
lated by Louis C. Schroeder
of the staff of the National
Recreation Association.

Folk dancing—one activity common to
the playground program of all lands.

rented for its normal school for men a field be-
longing to a sporting club, and in 1905 the
Superior School of Physical Education of Brus-
sels equipped a field in Linthout and gave instruc-
tion to teachers and students.

In 1909 the Minister of Public \Vorks took
over a held at Parc du Cinquantenaire. A year
later he established another playground called the
LeMarinel. It was through the efforts of the
Superior School of Physical Education in Brus-
sels that this field was equipped with apparatus,
dressing rooms, shower baths, and tennis courts.
At about the same time the Stuyvenberg field was
established at Antwerp.

The greatest development has
come since the war. In 1920 the
American Junior Red Cross
offered to establish playgrounds in
congested areas. The cities of
Charleroi, La Louviere, and Brus-
sels were the first to place fields
at the disposal of the Red Cross.

recreation

/

PLAYING FIELDS FOR. BELGIAN CHILDREN 455

At Charleroi, in 1921,
the public park of
Garenne was con -
verted into a playing
field. For the first
few years the cost of
administration w a 3
met by Red Cross
funds, but in 1924
the organization was
taken over by the city
and financed by it.
About 4,000 children
use the playground
each month.

A la r g e playing
field Was equipped at
La Louviere in 1922
by the American Red
Cross. The Red
Cross of Belgium ad-
ministered this play-
ground until 1924
when , it was taken
over by the city. The
building on the play—
ground has a central
heating system and
boasts of an Ortho-
'pedic Department which developed greatly during
the summer of 1930.

In 1922 at Brussels the Quai aux Foine was in-
stalled as a playground by the American Junior
Red Cross, and this section has become the city
playground for Brussels. A number of the lead-
ers, however, are appointed by the Belgian Red
Cross. The playground is directed by a compe-
tent personnel which gives unSparingly of its
time and energy. It has complete equipment for
children from three to fourteen years of age and
conducts a year round program. During rainy
and extremely cold days the program is carried on
indoors. The playground is in charge of a woman
assisted by several young women teachers who
have been specially trained by the Red Cross.

In 1923 the American Red Cross requested the
Belgian Red Cross to take over the work. This
was done and the Belgian Red Cross has con-
tinued the annual training courses for playground
workers instituted by the American Junior Red
Cross during the summer vacation. Upon com—
pletion of this course the candidates are assigned
to practical duties on existing playgrounds. At
the time of the Easter vacation, theoretical and

 

That a boy, plus a ball, equals play, is as
true in Belgium as in other countries!

practical courses are
held for a week and’
diplomas are awarded.
The program consists-
of theory and practice
of team and group
games, folk dances,
and physical activities.
Courses are given in
anatomy and physiol--
ogy, child psychology,
pedagogy, games, the
organization of play-
grounds, and first aid‘
to the injured. In ad--
dition to the regular
diplomas, pupils are
given a diploma Stat-
ing they are capable
of administering first-
aid.

In 1924 a play—.
ground was organized
at Liege by Mr. Babe.

In 1926 this was.

closed and a new one
was opened at a much
larger field at St.
Gilles. The City of
Liege supports this work and takes care of the
children during the vacation period.

The Brussels Academy of Domestic Science has
placed at the disposal of the elementary school
children its vast field consisting of several acres.
at Vleesembeek. All these fields are proving of
great value to the children. Most of them today-
contain baseball and net ball fields and playground
apparatus, such as swings and see-saws. Some
of them have football fields. Shower baths are
free to the children.

The year 1930 saw two new playgrounds estab-.
lished under the auspices of the Belgian Red
Cross. The one at the International Exposition
at Antwerp proved a great success. This play-
area for children, established for a temporary
period, will no doubt become a permanent field
administered by the municipal government of“
Antwerp. The second playground has been estab-
lished in the open air school at Laeken, near Brus-x.
sels. It is used by children during leaves of
absence and at vacation time. The LaVieille
Belgique (Old Belgium) Committee of the Inter-w
national Exposition at Antwerp has turned this

(Continued on page 468)

ha

Recreation

for the

or gardens open to the public
in Paris, where mothers can
take their children. There is, how-
ever, no leadership nor is there
space definitely set aside for play.
Recently sand boxes have been placed in a few of
the squares.
In each district one of the school yards is kept
o p e n o n
Thursdays
( F r a nc e ’ 5
school holi-
d a y) a n d
u s e d as a
playground
under t h e
leadership of
one or two
teachers paid
b y t h e

THERE are many little squares

b o a r d .
There is no

apparatus of
any kind in
the school
y a r d s. A
few Catho-

Apparatus new to French lic centers
children IS belng devised. and schools

a r e a l s 0
open on Thursdays to any Catholic children for
play, handcraft and singing under leadership.

456

 

 

In planning for her children Paris has

welcomed the opportunity to profit by
America's experience in training leaders.

Mrs. Daniel Stern of California has given a
million francs for playgrounds for small chil-
dren. One is now open and five or six more will
be available next spring. The so-called “Square
d’enfants” is small but very safe—a few trees and
benches, a sand box, an artificial brook and sev-
eral small see-saws, all enclosed. Only children
under six are admitted. Two nurses are in
charge. The grounds are open from eight
o’clock to five, and the children go home for their
meals. In the winter and on rainy days they play
in a closed shelter at one end of the square. These
“Squares d’enfants” are for the most part in con-
gested districts. Two or three settlements or
social centers have playgrounds of their own with
some apparatus, but only one, the “Toute
l’Enfance en Plein air,” is used as are the play—
grounds of America.

The Boy Scout and the Girl Scout movements
have developed rapidly in the past few years and
these organizations furnish the only recreation for
many little Parisians. There are 2,000 louveteaux
boys under 11 years of age, about 3,000 Boy
Scouts and the same number of Girl Scouts.
They meet once a week, go on picnics two or
three times each month, and enjoy a few days of

camping in the summer.
“Toute l’Enfance en Plein air” (All the Chil-

RECREATION FOR THE CHILDREN OF PARIS 457

dren in the Open) is a
large health center organ-

ized in 1920 on the fortifi-

cations of Paris between
Porte Clichy and Porte St.
Ouen. The city gave the
grounds, and barracks were
put on them for clinics; a lit-
tle later a kindergarten and
added.

Then the American Junior

day nursery was

Red Cross gave some play-
ground equipment to the cen-
ter and Miss Ruth Findlay
organized the Recreation De-
partment. In 1922 the meth-
ods of physical education
changed greatly in France,
Doctors ordered sun baths,
breathing exercises, so the
center had a large physical

education department as well as a playground
program for children from 3 to 14 years of age.
MisS Findlay held a six weeks institute for play-
ground workers in 1921, and from that time on

School
teachers and school nurses interested in the work

the material she gave has been used.

came to be trained and receive all of the material
available.

“Toute l’Enfance en Plein air” has the only
large organized playground in Paris. The direc-
tress and founder is a very unusually gifted
woman. This year she saw the need of new ma—
terial and new ideas for the Recreation Depart-
ment, so an institute was arranged in July for
workers, and in August an American program
was introduced on the playground. Renée Tétart,
a graduate of the National Recreation School,
was in charge of the institute and later of the
playground. The results were better than were
anticipated. Several tournaments and contests
were held, many handcraft pr03ects carried out

and a group of boys trained’in Indian customs

and all of the girls in folk dancing. The directress

 

Certain forms of athletic activities are popular.
Running 40 meter races is a Sport with a thrill!

has made the statement that there was an order
about the place never known before and that the
children had a wonderful time. An improvement
in sportsmanship was quite evident.

A good example of this is the case of Robert,

a young boy, one of the poorest losers on the play—
ground. When the marble tournament was held
he happened to be in the finals for the champion-
ship with André. He lost, and everyone thought

the worst would happen. Instead, Robert shook
hands with the champion and ran to the other side
of the playground shouting: “André'is the win-
ner. Come quick to applaud him.”

A great event was the introduction of the slide,
hitherto unknown to French children, made by a
carpenter according to directions given in Play
Areas, published by the National Recreation As-
sociation. A balance beam and bar were made

by all, and a climbing apparatus adapted from the

_ junglegym is now being made.

About 250 children come daily to the center
from eight in the morning until seven at night.
The great need is for trained leadership to keep
pace with the extension of the movement.

«2"

The land is gay with beautiful
flowers. Working men in partic-
ular find much joy in gardening.

Everywhere in the Czecho-
slovak mountains vacation
accommodations are provided.

0
p
' ‘ I.
I
Q

 

Recreation

0

In

Czechoslovakia

By Ing. E. S. Hokes
Masaryk Institute for Adult Education

the great gymnastic institutions of Sokols and Labor

Gymnasts. Others followed and today these organi-
zations alone have more than 700,000 members—girls, boys and
adults of both sexes. Activities at First consisted of light
athletics and exercises, but later water sports and winter sports
were added.

REt'Rl‘LATION was first carried on in Czechoslovakia by

 

RECREATION IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA 459

Our rivers offer wonderful opportunity for
recreation, and every Sunday young and old go
to these steams and spend their week-ends camp-
ing. Especially among the working class is this
week-end camping popular. In Prague alone
during the summer over 60,000 people spend their
week-ends in tents and huts in the country.

With its rich background of history, its castles
hundreds of years old, its beautiful mountains
and lakes, Czechoslovakia has a lure for tourists.
The Tourists’ League and similar organizations
have arranged for attractive huts offering over-
night accommodations for tourists in the moun-
tains and for restaurants where food may be
secured at moderate prices. Organizations
throughout the country are now maintaining over
120 camping places and each year new ones are
created. Much is being done through Boy Scouts
and workers’ organizations which arrange camp-
ing trips for men and women. From 60,000 to
80,000 people spend two weeks vacation during
the spring and summer at these camps. The
Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. are also doing a
very important work for young people.

The land reform movement is playing an im-
portant part in furthering general welfare by
making it possible for the social organizations to
secure at little expense forests and building sites.

With the restoration of the land to the people,
much of it was given to small farmers. Beauti-
ful castles are being used as museums and rest
houses for the needs of the sick and convalescent.
Some of them have been restored to the families
of the original owners.

The freedom resulting from the land reform
has given the country. an opportunity to expand
along recreational lines and to provide organiza-
tions to further the movement. Much progress
has also been made through social insurance to
which employer and employee contribute in equal
amounts. Some of the funds raised through this
insurance is used to create institutions for social
service and recreation. Near Prague a large town
housing about 3,000 people has been built for the
aged. Here libraries, recreation centers, moving
pictures, swimming pools and similar facilities-
are provided.

The gardening movement is very strong in
Czechoslovakia. Around the towns small colonies
of gardeners have been gathered.

Formerly little was done for Women and girls.
Now there are recreation houses for women and
opportunity for social recreation. Large houses
have been erected for students and much is being
done to encourage the girls of the country to
continue their education.

There are over 60,000 skiers in Czechoslo-
vakia. Huts have been erected for their use.

 

460 .CAMPING IN'HELLAS

Winter sports are popular with young and old.
Through the efforts of to'urists’ organizations and
ski clubs, a network of huts, large and small, has
been created at winter sports centers, routes have
been mapped out, and the state has made arrange-
ments whereby winter sports enthusiasts may
travel to sports centers at prices 30 per cent. less
than the usual cost. The railroads are going still
further and are organizing inexpensive trips to
these sports centers which include board and
lodging.

It is our hope that there will be incorporated
in a law, now being prepared, the provision that
every community must set aside space for play
for children and adults. Another objective is
that near every community a space shall be re-
served for camping.

Through a public library law passed in 1919,
provision was 'made for a library in every com-
munity with a certain sum set aside for the pur-
chase of new books. Thus we have attained the
provision for reading as a leisure time pursuit.

A central federation of all recreational groups
has been secured in the Masaryk Institute for

I. 

Adult Education, which founded in 1906, plays a
large part in the cultural development of the
country and in federating and extending cultural
associations. It is the central advisory source for
educational institutions. It assists libraries, or-
ganizes lectures and musical activities, and ar-
ranges traveling art exhibits. The Institute has
done much to develop puppetry, believing that
doll theatres are an important education medium.
The Institute is also interested in seeing that
the best hlms are shown and it organizes edu-
cational exhibits for the entire Republic at which
are shown the results of activities throughout the
state.

Our far-away country is working toward ideals
similar to your own. This is important for more
free time will soon be liberated. We have an
obligatory eight-hour working day, but some in-
dustrial plants have inaugurated the live day week
and others will follow. Our position in the center
of Europe puts us in quick contact with the entire
world and enables us to apply all that is new in
social discovery to our own progress and welfare.

. Camping in Hellas

T the foot of Mount Pelion and the narrow
vale between the hills known as the birth-

place of Achilles, and on the shore of the blue
Aegean Sea, is the wonderful location of the

National Y. M. C. A. Boys’ Camp of Greece. No ‘

other camp in the world can boast of a more
romantic setting or one more full of tradition
than Camp Pelion.

The camp is sufhciently inaccessible to give it
the proper camping atmosphere. Neighboring
villages and hamlets are all stiff mountain climbs
away. Only very steep and narrow donkey trails
connect the camp with these mountain villages.
Boats come to these rugged shores only by special
arrangement to bring and take the campers.
Otherwise the camp is undisturbed by contact with
the outside world save by the visits of hshing
craft or muleteers bringing supplies. Pelion is
the fruit growing section of Greece and the camp
is close to the best source of supplies for vege-
tables and fruit in all the country. A perfect
climate, wide spreading old plane trees, silvery
olive orchards, sparkling spring water, wide
open spaces for playgrounds and a sheltered bath-

ing beach, all contribute to make this camp site
more than ideal.

The camp aims to develop all that is best in
Greek character—racial pride, ambition to
achieve a perfect mind in a perfect body, and a
desire to regain the place in modern civilization
that they held in their Golden Age.

Pelion is a musical camp and everything is
done to help the boy who is studying a stringed
instrument to keep up his practice while in camp.
Camp concerts are frequent. The camp also fos-
ters the love of ancient Greek folk lore and cus-
toms and each summer the boys prepare a festival
based on the festivals of ancient Greece consisting
of dances, games and dramatic events. The mod-
ern Greek boys possess a great fund of originality
and artistry in this sort of thing.

In a word, the best that modern civilization can
oiTer in methods of camping and character build-
ing is taken to supplement only, the use of those
ancient ideals and methods by which the Greeks
reached the pinnacle of perfection of mind and
body, and which their descendants today are emu-

lating to regain the “Glory that was Greece.”—
From L. W. Riess.

The Argentinians at Play

A country where athletics and
sports are held in high esteem.

OW would you
H like to belong to

an athletic club,
palatial in its appoint-
ments and equipped for
every type of recreation
and' sport with an initia-
tion fee of only $8.15
and annual dues of $20?

You are correct—there
is no such club in the
United States, but it
does exist in the good
city of Buenos Aires,
capital of the Argentine.
How do the Argentin-
ians do it? Simply by
making their club almost
a community institution. They have 20,000 mem—
bers in that club!

Known as the Gym and Fencing Club, this
famous institution is Iifty years old. It has three
buildings at strategic points in the city and a huge
acreage of playing fields for soccer, rugby, hockey,
tennis, basketball, children’s play and other activi—
ties. To give examples of the play space provided,
there are twenty tennis courts, seven basketball
courts, and ten fields for soccer and rugby. Two
outdoor swimming pools and a roller skating rink
are part of the equipment.

Indoor facilities include a large gymnasium,
one of the best equipped med— I
ical offices in South America,
electric reducing apparatus,
and live courts for palate and
sure, Spanish games. These
games resemble handball, but

iEduardo J. De Grossi, Argentine

soccer and track star, now studying
recreation and physical education in
the United States, gives the facts pre-
sented in this article.

By Weaver Pangbum
National Recreation Association

 

The Club has long played a leading part
in the recreational life of Buenos Aires.

the courts are about four times as large.

The club admits persons of all ages and both
sexes. Consequently many of its activities are
family affairs.

Municipal Recreation

Although great clubs like the Gym and Fencing
Club are a characteristic phase of organized rec-
reation in the Argentine, they are not by any
means the whole story. Buenos Aires has in its
beautiful parks many municipal playgrounds open
' the year—round under leader-

ship. Apparatus play, games,

track and field competitions

and handcraft are common ac-

tivities in the playground pro-
(Continued on page 462)

461

462 THE ARGENTINIANS AT PLAY

TENNIS NETS

in also a

Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

Sport Nets

This house has long

been headquarters

in

for all the above.

W. A. AUGUR

35 Fulton Street New York

     
 

Turn
NIGHT into DAY!

Prolong the hours of happiness experienced by our
playground patrons who play tennis. croquet and other
sports that heretofore have been played only during

daylight hours.

These lights are also ideal for baseball diamonds.
football neids. and for iioodlightlng buildings.

The patent adjustable lamp socket permits use of
lamp bulbs ranging from 300 to 1000 watts.

Different illumination requirements demand various
types of reflectors. Write our engineers, briefly out-
line your requirements and permit us to submit our

proposal.

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

Anderson, Indiana

 

gram. There is much current interest in Buenos
Aires in acquiring municipal swimming pools.
Five are now under construction. The present
enthusiasm for swimming is due to the success,
at the Olympic Games in Amsterdam, of Mr.
Alberto Zorrilla who won championship swimming
honors. Outdoor swimming is possible seven
months in the year. Consequently the municipal
bathing beaches of the city, which are extensive,
are extremely popular. Many families are to be
seen there picnicking and enjoying the bathing.
Municipal band concerts are a regular feature of
the park program.

Little theatre groups and amateur orchestras are
to be found chiefly in private schools. As to
opera, it is, of course, well known that in this

field the capitals of the South American republics
equal, if they do not excel, New York and other

cities in the United States.

While golf is popular in Buenos Aires, there
are no municipal courses. Another contrast with
the United States is that physical education has
not been developed in the public schools.

Organized Sports

For many years intercollege and interstate
championship contests have been held in a number
of sports. Every year national championships are
sponsored in Argentina in the major games, and
in soccer, tennis, track and field there are South

American championship contests. Last year the
tenth such continental event was held. Uruguay
won the soccer championship. A team from the
United States lost to the Argentine in the semi-
finals. For nine out of the last ten years Argen-
tina has won the South American tennis cham-
pionships. Soccer easily stands first as the most
popular sport in the Argentine. Second place is
held by boxing. Baseball stands near the bottom

of the list.

In the Argentine there are 100 soccer teams in
the first division alone. Track and field cham-
pionships are organized under municipal auspices,
as well as boxing, swimming, wrestling and weight
lifting. Women and girls participate in track and
field events, swimming, rowing, basketball and
tennis. The competitions are carefully graded
according to age groupings. These competitions
of the Argentine draw huge crowds and the cham-
pionship contests are followed with the same rabid
enthusiasm that college football and professional

baseball excite in this country.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

World at Play

Athens Initiates the
Playground Movement

INCE 1912 the little country of Greece has
S had heavy burdens to carry. She has passed

through four wars with the resultant finan—
cial drain, and in addition has been called upon
to shelter 1,500,000 refugees. Greece has, how—
ever, shown her indomitable spirit by permitting
none of these obstacles to prevent her from put—
ting her house in order and proceeding with civic
and recreational developments.

The first children’s playgrounds to be opened
in Greece have been constructed in Athens. These
four playgrounds, built by the municipality, are
but a start in the-program which is under way.
Projects are being developed to provide the youth
of Greece with 106 new play centers which will
be combinations of playgrounds and athletic fields.
These playgrounds, which are being fostered by
the Ministry of Education, will be scattered
throughout Greece on the mainland as well as on
the numerous islands which form the interesting
Greek archipelago. On some of these mountain-
ous islands the terrain is so uneven and so pre-
cipitous that the construction of playgrounds will
require the expenditure of large sums. But they
will represent a fascinating piece of pioneering
work and a memorial to the courage and fore-
sight of the country of Greece.

 

V» .
r . '1... .

um! um. .Izs!

.
 ‘u
\ I. a: ' \ a
.39; “1" 5‘ J o
a: + x v. ~* . -
I ' 1 . ~ - W J“ h 2. ‘ E . 7
ll " .- 7" V «hi-g:-
, ¢ ' , ‘- \ :5. o
r _
|. i ‘ <"i '
r ‘ 1 é ' , 24319.. x 4. .
mmww w - ‘u
_ . .‘l .
l; m“ . _. . __ ,
Q . , . - - .
l. g _ v a , - . I
I -  ‘ l‘.

The majority of the playgrounds of
Athens were once unsightly clumps.

 

A report of the Italian
N a t i o n a1 Institute for
Workers’ Spare Time for
the past five years shows
that at the end of 1930 the number of affiliated
associations was 14,427 with a total membership
of 1,622,140. During 1930 the Institute organ—
ized 525,117 events, including sports meetings, ex—
cursions, entertainments, amateur theatrical per—
formances, social hygiene, lectures and exhibi—
tions, and lectures on vocational subjects, general
culture and folk lore. The aggregate attendance

at the principal sports meetings organized by the
Institute was 6,000,000.

Spare Time
in Italy

Unused for more than a
century, comes a report
from England, the old bury—
ing ground at Twickenham,
England, will be turned into a recreation park.
Small houses now surround the ground and the
space is needed for play.

Salford, a town adjoining Manchester, has
closed ninety-two of its streets to motor traffic
so that the children may have a safe place to play.

Play Space
in England

The July—August issue of
Olympic N ews, published
by the American Olympic
Association, 233 Broadway,

463

The
Olympic Games

464

 
 
  

or

  
    
  
   
    
  

 

Winter, too—

C HICAGO Tobogg

IVORLD AT PLAY

Playground

 

 

Equipment

“CHICAGO”

 

an No. 300, pictured above, designed

primarily for bob sled; and winter use, has a detach-
able 30-foot wave slide for spring, summer and fall.
Like other "Chicago" equipment, it is carefully de-

signed and strongly built.

It has large capacity and

will keep a crowd of children healthfully and happily

busy with safety.

In preparing for winter sports, you will need s
"CHICAGO" Playground Snow Plow, s one-man

~plow of large capacity. es-
pecially designed for scrap-
ing flooded skating ponds
and removing snow from
grounds and walks.

Write for

1835 W. Lake St., CHICAGO. U. S. A.

NOW

order surfacing
material for spring!

3 perfected, economical

RUBICO SURFACINGS

Fast-drying, permanent, dustless Red or
Green Top Dressings and also Red Clay
Surfacing.

Shipped anywhere in 100 lb. bags

Write—NOlV—for samples and
full information.

.
RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.
Westtield New Jersey
.

Specialists in the Construction of Tennis Courts,
Playgrounds and Athletic Fields.

Catalog “3”
CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT CO.

 
 

   

 

New York City, contains the program of events
scheduled for the tenth Olympiad of Los Angeles,

California, July 30th to August 14th, 1932, and
gives information regarding the plans.

Physical Education and Recreation in
Poland—Physical education in Poland has made
rapid strides since the establishment in 1927 of a
Governmental Board for Physical Education. In
every school three hours a week are set aside for
gymnastics and one afternoon for games and
sports. During the winter the boys and girls have
ice skating, sliding and skiing; in summer periods,
swimming and rowing. Each gymnastic lesson is
brought to a close with games. The chief need of
the program is for the training of teachers, in-
structors and coaches, and the training of such
leaders for clubs is being carried on at fourteen
centers. Teachers of physical education are being
trained in two universities and in the Central In-
stitute of Physical Education, the largest building
of its kind in Europe, which trains both men and
women.

The Department of Culture and Education is
promoting drama and music throughout Poland.
All through the country there are numerous clubs
and associations for sports and physical education,
the most popular sport being football. During the
past three years the number of players in basket-
ball, volley ball, hazena and other games, has in-
creased rapidly. All kinds of sports are provided
for tourists.

Cizek Christmas Postal Cards—The Aus-
trian Junior Red Cross has issued a new set of
Christmas cards made by children of ten to four-
teen years of age who are pupils of the juvenile
art class of Professor Cizek in Vienna. The
series, ten in number, may be secured from the
Austrian Junior Red Cross, 1 Stubenring, Vienna
1., Austria. Price 27 cents, postage included.
Payment may be made by international postal
money orders, or by local checks.

Developments in Turkey

(Continued from page 430)

and will be for all ages. It is located in a densely
populated section of the city where there are over
5,000 children, according to school records. Here
will be a sport field in addition to the regular
playground apparatus.

The fourth playground will be a kindergarten
playground in the residential section of the city.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

'DEVELOPMENTS IN TURKEY 465-

We expect this to be constructed during the next
year. These four will complete the playground
system of An'gora. After that we shall be able
to answer the calls that are continually coming
to us from other cities throughout the nation.
The deputies of the National Assembly are ob-
serving the experiments here in Angora and are
spreading the gospel of playgrounds and recrea-
tion in their home localities.

Within the next year the first day nursery will
be built adjacent to the Fuat Bey playground,
and arrangements are being made to use the
playground for a part of the nursery program.
A National School of Social Work is to be estab-
lished in Angora this spring. One of the biggest
courses 'to be offered will be that in playgrounds
and public recreation. The immediate need is to
train adequate leadership for the present and soon
to be opened playgrounds.

The American advisors have been invited into
several schools to assist in the establishment of
recreational programs. These are developing and
spreading considerably.

The beginnings of the playground movement
herein described have not taken into considera-
tion the field of adult education. So many other
phases seemed so much more important and since
the Ministry of Education covers this field, it has
been postponed as a future possibility of the
playground movement.

The Ministry of Education and the National
Educational Society, working closely with the
Ministry, have provided well for adult education.
All school teachers are under contract with the
Ministry and must contribute a certain number
of hours a week to teaching in night schools for
adults. By law it is necessary for all adults who
cannot read or write to attend these schools. The
adoption of new characters for the Turkish lan-
guage a few years ago has made this necessary.

The Black Folk of South Africa
(Continued from page 435)

attempting something along social lines with a
totally inadequate building. Moving picture films
obtained from'the Johannesburg Bantu Men’s
Social Center are exhibited in sixty points such
as Durban, Pietermaritzburg, Pretoria, Graaff
Reinet, in the sugar mills in Natal, in hospitals,
prisons, leper institutions, municipal locations, in
the gold, copper and coal mines in the Rhodesias,
in native teacher training and high schools

 

throughout the land. Durban has appointed a.
European native welfare officer to promote the
welfare of the native population along recreational
lines.

A promising field of endeavor is that sub-
sidized by the Carnegie Foundation of America,
namely, the holding of annual Jeanes Schools for
native tea’che'rs.“-- At these conferences, or winter
schools, courses are given by experienced lec-
turers on community service and recreation, and
daily demonstrations are provided. Hundreds of
native teachers have carried back into their coun-‘
try schools inspiration and information from
these courses.

Reverend O. E. Lovell of Durban, Superinten-jj
dent of the American Board Mission Schools,;
has just initiated the Bantu Community Leagueij
to head up various projects of a school and com-u
munity nature in the rural areas. Just what form?
this league will take in different communities will
depend on plants available, quality of leadershipgg.
and economic condition of the pe0ple. 

Through these various channels an effort isii

being made to meet the tremendous need of the

South African Bantu for guidance in leisure time:

Diamond Official
Pitching Shoes

Now is the time to get
well stocked in pitching
horseshoe eQuipment. In-
door courts are easily in-
stalled and highly popular
where temperatures are
beginning to drop. The
Diamond line of shoes
and accessories is com-
plete from score pads to
official shoes. Write for
information.

 

Eagle Ringer
Pitching Shoes

The Eagle Ringer is an
official shoe of extra fine
quality. The shape is de-
signed to keep shoes from
spinning around the stake
and sliding off. Ringers

stay put with this model.

Drop forged, drawn in
oil, from high grade tool
steel—will not chip or
break.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE C0.
4610 Grand Ave., Duluth, Minn.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

CHILDREN OF HUNGARY AT PLAY

THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN

The most important topic in America today

466

I: present-day education preparing youth properly for their adult life!
What evidences of change have been tested and found adequate to meet the future!

THE PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

through its service and its magazine
PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION

offers stimulating, practical answers_to_these questions. It translates your interest in your
children, your schools, your community into helpful service.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION is issued monthly from October to May, inclusive.
1:1 is attractive in format, wide in scope, vital in presentation of the newer tendencies in
e ucation.

May we send you a sample copy? Better, just use the attached coupon and try it for a
year. You will become a permanent reader. A subscription makes you a member of
“The Progressive Education Association,” with all its services and privileges. Send for
our Association booklet. Note the special offer below.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
716 Jackson Place
Washington. D. C.

Dept. W
Date ...................................................................... ..

Please enroll me as a subscribing-member in the PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. mg subscription to
e

expire November, 1932. Enclosed is my check for $3.00.

It is understood that I am to receive the Octo

r, 1931. issue of

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION, and one previous issue free of charge.

Kindly print your name and address. Be sure it is
the address to which you want the magazine sent.

KENDALL

COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Formerly Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Be a director of Physical Education. piayground supervisor. dancing teacher.
or swimming instructor. Two-year diploma and three-year B.P.E. courses
for young women high school graduates. Accredited Free appointment
Faculty loot trained specialists. Complete equipment. Fine
Cata g.

MID TERM OPENS FEBRUARY 1st

REGISTRAR. 5028 GREENWOOD AVE.
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

bureau.
dormitories.

BOX 5101

 

activities. American and British missionaries are
taking an increasingly active share in this work.
Business and mining men, as well as municipal
authorities, are taking a leading part in the
provision of more adequate facilities for black
workers and their families. South Africa is fall-
ing into step with the rest of the world in this
provision of wholesome recreation for the masses
of its people.

Children of Hungary at Play
(Continued from page 439)

have less than 1,000, two or more may combine
and form one society.
The program of physical education in the

Please mention RECREATION

 

schools includes all varieties of sports. Over
fourteen handbooks are published by the Central
Committee, designed as guides for the teaWrs.
The physical work is divided into age groups so
that there is no strain on the children. Every
school has a gymnasium and nearly all have small
playgrounds attached to the schools. While the
playgrounds have little equipment, every Oppor-
tunity is given for participation in circle games
and competitive and non-equipment games. No
school pupil is permitted to join an outside organi-
zation, such as a club, unless he has special per-
mission and is over eighteen years old. Those
under this age cannot join even a Y. M. C. A.,
some of the local authorities maintaining that with
the school societies and Scout tr00ps there is
enough to keep a boy busy without membership in
other organizations. Every school has its own
athletic association and there is an interscholastic
organization under the guidance of the National
Board of Education.

As a feature of the physical program. in Hun—
gary every school must have a Scout troop. The
Scouts of this nation—and there are over 30,000
members—are a well trained group and take great
pride in their work. They have a permanent camp

when writing advertisers

CHILDREN OF HUNGARY AT PLAY 467

near Budapest and in the summer the different
troops have their own camps. There is also a
naval Scout camp. The boys have their own cen-
tral headquarters—very attractive Scout rooms—
publish their own magazine, and every year more
than 9,000 take part in the Jamboree.

During the vacation period in the summer
months the boys are not compelled to take gym-
nastics but they are asked to continue healthful
exercises and recreation by attending Scout camps
and going into the hills to take part in the outdoor
activities. The record of the Hungarians in all
phases of athletics proves that this is an excellent
means of keeping the boys fit.

The Playground Situation

There are few playgrounds in Hungary. Being
a poor nation which lost 71 per cent of its land
and 63 per cent of its people after the Treaty of
Trianon, they cannot do much. Throughout the
land, however, there are some public playgrounds
with sand pits, wading pools, and swimming pools.
There is a playground in Budapest which is par-
ticularly beautiful. It is terraced and has three
sections with a beautiful outlook and contains full
equipment such as swings, sand pits, wading pools,
and shelters. Plans are under way for more fully
equipped playgrounds throughout the country.

The educational leaders of Hungary are for—
ward-looking pe0ple, and only the financial situa-
tion-Ikeeps them from developing more play-
grounds. The beautiful parks provide places for
the children to roam and romp and in one of the
main thoroughfares of busy Budapest space is
roped off for the children to promenade and play.

The Hungarian people are a sport—loving race.
Budapest is one of the best equipped cities of the
world for outdoor recreational activities with three
remarkably fine swimming pools—St. Gellet,
Szchenyi, and an important new one, all with sul-
phur water, radioactive, and with numerous sport
fields headed by the St. Margaret’s play isle, one
can find every kind of recreational facilities.
Hungary is a land of charm with a people who
are deeply conscious that the welfare of their chil-
dren lies in the provision of public parks, play-
grounds and recreation activities.

Los Angeles Host to the Congress
(Continued from page 444)

tion minded” by their fortunate situation in one
of the great natural playground sections of the
world, have developed in their system of public

 

Licensed under Patents 0! Octo-
ber 23, 1923. March 25. 1924

"Junglegym" Trade Mark Regis-
tered United States Patent Office

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E
 $6)
I: —_'—_-:‘:':=-;'lz}i'7“;:i;":
 ; _,,,-;§§\Ijrl,nII,II/rai3llll MT
 '1, “           
 . 
 £  l!  l..|lliu??l!;g;}lMg!!!IIlli-g --I

 

7-,  -
(til 

.J'. '

 

I new:
Mil." Zia-‘if- ‘
| _

_ 5! eff; 3 If“.
. * i I: l :"_ 
JAE;   l I J j

.  =  I,  I. r_ .9. ‘.
. --v - "" _ e
w --. ' -' ' p. - -. .. ” .44.. . _  ' “NW

i‘ J _
. ‘Jm‘aé‘r‘f.  ‘Oi—o

 

I. m {JIL-
.= “  5. -—~ ..
 \ kg!  .t“

H.

 

 

 

q ..

This No. 2 Junglegym capable of
handling 75 children.

 

HOW PLAYGROUND
PROBLEMS ARE BEING
PERMANENTLY SOLVED

WITH

JUNGLEGYM-

Children are not like older persons.
They instinctively like or dislike a
thing and no amount of words can con-
vince them otherwise.

 

 

 

That is one reason Why the Jungle-
gym has proven so successful in play-
grounds. It appeals to the deep—rooted
instincts of children to climb and play
in groups. They never seem to tire of
playing on it, because all sorts of games
can be discovered or made up on the in-
stant. A splendid exerciser, both phys-
ically and mentally.

But there are other features equally
as important. Having, as it does, gradu-
ated bars always near at hand it is abso-
lutely safe and requires no supervision.
Permanently made of metal and com-
pactly built to economize on space.

Playground Department
Chicopee, Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

468 L05 ANGELES—HOST TO THE CONGRESS

play an"dutstanding example of what public or-
ganizations may accomplish in the provision of
that healthful and wholesome use of leisure time
so essential to the well being of a modern com-
munity.

“ :The fact that the International Recreation

Congress of 1932 will occur in Los Angeles just_

prior to and in connection with the Tenth Olympic
Games is a fortunate coincidence for those who
will attend this International meeting. The
Olympic Games will provide sixteen days and
nights of competition between the great athletes
of approximately 50 nations, beginning on Satur-
day, July 20, 1932, and ending on Sunday, Aug-
ust 14, 1932. This competition will include ath-
letics (track and field), boxing, cycling, equestrian
sports, fencing, field hockey, gymnastics, modern
pentathlon, shooting, rowing, swimming, diving.
water polo, weight lifting, wrestling, yachting,
international demonstrations and fine arts.

\Vorld’s championships in all of these events
will be decided while the highest type of com-
petition will bring forth the best that every nation
has to offer. The Olympic Games will be closely
linked in interest to the International Recreation
Congress. supplementing the meeting of the
world’s play leaders for the consideration of in-
ternational problems of play leadership, and illus-
trating many of the ideas to be discussed in the
convention.

: Thousands of visitors will be expected in Los
Ang'éles for the events of the Olympic Games
and numerous special festivities will take place
in the city in conjunction with the Games. Those
attending the International Recreation Congress
will have full opportunity to enjoy all of these
activities to the utmost and at the same time
will be able to see Los Angeles and Southern
California at its carefree, gala, holiday best.

R —.———.—.._.___._.__

. Orphans and Athletics
' (Continued from page 451)

tional Swaddling clothes and give young arms and
legs the benefits of sun, air, exercise and a chance
for normal growth. Village children are coaxed
to the river’s brim and in no time at all are
brought to splashing joy and a new cleanliness.
Little by lit'tle'mOthers have come, hrst to watch,
then to take martwandhntiw”, accordingto the latest
report, fathers are relaxing their dignity and join-
ing in'_the._new ,spgqr:t_,.'_,w__,The people had made no

attempt to use their rivers for bathing until the
gentle insistence of the Foundation’s nurse led

the way.

Playing Fields for Belgium
(Continued from page 455)

work over completely to the Red Cross of Bel-
gium which is providing the program. Sessions
are held three times a week.

Our playground service is often called upon
to give advice and practical help to schools, vaca-
tion colonies for children, vacation homes, orphan-
ages, and institutions of all kinds. The Junior
Red Cross of Belgium never misses an oppor-
tunity to carry on propaganda for playgrounds.
A number of cities, notably those around Liege,
are studying projects which were begun by the

Red Cross.

Most of the playgrounds recognized as such by
the Red Cross of Belgium have clubs for children
and for adolescents. Employed boys and girls
come to the grounds during certain hours of the
week or on Sunday mornings. They enjoy out-
door and indoor games and-use the playgrounds
as a starting place for excursions and trips.

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS
oszpn Ln, President
OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
OHN G. \VINAN'r. Second Vice-President
onnr GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIan, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. Brooms Carlisle. Pa.
WxLLrAu BUTTERWORTH, Moline. Ill.
CLARENCI: M. CLARK Philadelphin. Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT. 1’ortland. Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. Cunnzn. Jacksonville. Fla.
F. TRURE: DAVISON, Locust Valley. L. I.. N. Y.
MR3. THouAs A. EorsON West Orange. N. J.
OHN H. FINLEY, New York. N. Y.

IUGH FRAYNE. New York, N. Y.
Roan-r GARRETT, Baltimore. Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle. Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNBss, New York. N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y. .
MR3. CHARuas V. Hrcxox, Michigan City Ind.
MR3. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plamfield IN. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRV New York. N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, fndiauapolis. Ind.
MR3. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich. Conn.
Roan-r LAssr'rzR. Charlotte, N. C.

oan Lu: Boston, Mass.

DWARD E toours, New York. N. Y.
J. H. McCURDY, Spring-field. Mass.
0110 T. MALLERY, Philadel hia. Pa.
\VALTER A. MAY. Pittsburg , Pa.
CARL E. MrLLIan, Augusta. Me:
Miss ELuN Scarves. LaJolIa. Calif. _
FREDERICK S. Trrswon'rn, New York.  Y.
MR5. JAuzs W. WADSWORTH JR., Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH. New York,  Y.

om: G. WINANT, Concord, N. H. _

Ins. WILLIAM H. WOODIN JR.. Plainiield. N. J.
FREDERICK M. WARRURG. New York. N. Y.
C. S. Wurox. Scranton, Pa.

w | ' _n
ée‘ (H 4 .u;

