The Play of Nations

HE RECREATION CONGRESS at Los Angeles will be the first occasion on
which the nations of the earth will meet together to plan for the attain—
ment of life and happiness by all their pe0ple.

We call our subject Recreation, but we all know that the word in its
general usage is inadequate, that what we are seeking is the rediscovery of

those streams of thought and action in the current of which, if ever, we
become alive.

It is an interesting circumstance that such a meeting should take place
at a time when the people of the world are suffering from a moral and
physical depression almost unprecedented. It is as though we all had found
ourselves convicted of having made a sorry failure of our prosperity and
had resolved to make a better use of it in future. I think that such a time
for meeting is auspicious. The sources of human life and happiness that we
are seeking are international, older and more deeply rooted than our differ-
ences. Every nation has its song, its games, its art, its drama, and its liter-
ature, its own approach to truth and understanding; each has its flag, the

symbol of its personality; each brings its special contribution to the whole.
But the muses that have whispered to us are the same. It is because of this

happy combination of unity and variety that we should meet and that we
shall some day form a team.

The children know all this and always have. They dance, they sing,
they dramatize, they make up little epics at their work and speak in verse if
not in poetry. They understand the arts of war and peace and practice them.
It is we grown-ups who are ignorant. We come here to take lessons from
these little cosmopolitans who have, from China to Peru, through all the
centuries, preserved the universal genius of mankind.

It is to the children, learned professors of this subject, versed in the ex-

perimental method of approach, yet compromising nothing of their inborn
sense of values, that I commend the assembled scholars of this conference.

M4

121

Wanderlust!

 

Courtesy Minneapolis Municipal Hiking Club, Board of Park Commissioners.

There's a tingle in the breeze that tells me autumn roams alield;
There's a tang ol coming snowllakes in the air;

There's a Freshness and a bite in each dewy starlit night,

And it’s Forth along the road I want to Fare.

Oh, il I could be a gypsy when it’s autumn in the woods,
And the hoar-lrost sparkles at the break of day,
I'd be glad to travel on in each rosy, new made dawn, ‘

There's be nothing that could bid me pause or stay.

--Mild red A. Smith.

From Footprints, 1931, Minneapolis Municipal Hiking Club.

122

l

‘3 MARGARET T. SVENDSEN

s PlayVanishing from Playgrounds?

problem of vital interest to all

reation workers is discussed.

Institute for Juvenile Research

Chicago, Illinois

'1‘ is one of the first
days of spring. In

 
    
 

How does the boy himself feel about it? Does he
want to make and sail his boat in competition?

scene such as the one

one corner of the

ltyground a group of

girls have gathered
jump rope. They
- the instructor ap-
aching them and
' mpt to get out of
way, as she calls
in their direction,
'rls, the rules for
rope contest came

The case for and against competition

This month Recreation is presenting a challenge to
recreation workers in the publication of tw0 articles,
one by Miss Svendsen ol: the staff of the Institute For
Juvenile Research, Chicago, the other by V. K. Brown
of Chicago. Some of the "pros and cons" of compet-
itive play activities are presented. You may agree with
one point of view, with the other, or not wholly with
either! In any case, you will Find the articles stimulating
and well worth your careful thought. They will, we hope,
serve as a basis for further discussion. What conclu-
sions have you come to from your own experience?
Send us your comments so that we may have a presenta-

described in the first
paragraph to ask: Are
we giving enough
thought to the way
children feel a b out
contests? \Vhat hap-
pens to the personali-
ties of the children
who take part, victors
and vanquished alike?
Is there not some evi-

ay.”
l T h e r e you go
: 'ling our fun.”
T'We don’t like that bunk holding om feet.”
‘ Why do we have to do all of those exercises?”
few of the remarks that greet her announce-
t.
I here seems to be little question but that play-
f _nd executives are convinced of the value of
. etitive enterprises. The trend, in fact, seems
 in the direction of increased popularity. In
 ent issue of this magazine, for example, one
‘ . the statement: “In connection with a drama
3 nament, the playground directors seized the
rtunity for introducing a handcraft competi-
in the form of a contest for the most artistic
- ram.” Because of this trend toward more

‘I more contests, some of us are moved by a

tion of all points of view.

dence that we are
overstressing the de-
sirable, and tending to
overlook the undesirable effects of competition?

Before taking up any of these specific ques-
tions, it might be helpful to see how the present
type of playground program, characterized by a
continuous shifting from one competitive venture
to another, evolved. Prior to a decade or so ago,
athletics was the major playground activity, and
the only one to be competitively conducted. It
became evident soon that the children not inter-
ested in athletics were being neglected. As one
authority put it, “Playground directors did not
make it respectable for a boy to acknowledge an
interest in anything like kites.” Activities of this
type were therefore incorporated into the pro-
gram. At the same time, to insure them equal

123

124 IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS?

dignity with athletics, they were standardized and The Playground Director’s Problem
promoted competitively. Granted that maximum satisfaction for e
patron is the aim, the question for playgrou
leaders resolves, then, into a two-fold fo .
I. How can we reorganize our pr0grams so t
the patrons will have more to say about W
activities should be promoted, and be allow
more leeway in selecting those in which they,
individuals, will participate? 2. How can we I
vise our practices so that children may move
to new activities or enterprises at their 0
choosing, rather than at our command? Any ;
tempt to answer these questions leads directly
a discussion of the main features of playgrou
programs, which serve as obstacles to these en
competition and central direction.

As far as can be determined, play leaders j
tify their present emphasis upon competition
the grounds that the competitive spirit is natu
and universal. Granted! Cannot we ass

To some of us it appears that the need felt by
playground. directors to elevate _an activity like
kite flying to the dignity of athletics by some arti-
licial means, reflects their adult {apology for this
activity; also a tendency to evaluate everything
in terms of athletics, rather than in satisfaction
to the participant. In our experience in inter-
viewing children about their play activities, we
have observed no reluctance on their part to
admit an interest in kite flying, up to the age of
twelve or thirteen. It is of course true that be-
yond this age kite flying, particularly if it' were. an
exclusive interest, might cause a boy to be con-
sidered “queer.” On" the whole, however, chil-
dren do not, like adults, feel the need of justifying
a play activity. The fact that it affords them
pleasure is sufficient.

1'

Much as one may question the practice of con- then, that it will take care of itself? Will not t
ducting all play activities under competitive con- children or two adults inevitably compare th
ditions, the broadening of the program did have selves? one wonders, in VieW of this fact,
desirable consequences. It provided for children we play leaders feel the need to accentuate e0
of a wider age range and of more diverse inter— petition artificially, as we Obviously are dei
ests. Concentration on athletics to the exclusion Observe the way we are extending it to aetivi
of other pursuits was discouraged. All-round which were formerly engaged in for the pure
development for each child became the slogan, of creation, and forcing Chikiren up to Io ye
the means for achieving it, a system of points. of age, when they are at the make-believe stag

play, into competitive enterprises. Psychol
cally we cannot, at this age, expect skill to be
important factor to them. The consequences . ‘
often serious! For example, one instructor t ‘

Contemporary with the recognition of the need
for more variety in the playground program, an-
other idea took hold, which likewise helped to
shape the present philosophy of program plan- . . . .
ning. Not only do children crave variety in their Of an experience Wlth an eight‘year‘om glrl

play lives, leaders pointed out, but their interest became thterfcal m the Course Of a relaY‘r
in any given activity is of short duration. In contest’ t mng herself on the ground and C

order to keep their interest and to satisfy their mg' Thls. (ihlld’ tOgether war} the Others Of
need for continuous novelty, it is necessary to age comprlsmg the team’ had, In the Course Of

move on quickly from one activity to another, eliminate”. tournament to repeal the same 
while the enthusiasm is still at a high pitch. The races. 8.1}: dlirerent times unde}. .hlghly compe t1 .
leaders who Spoke thus sensed accurately the conditions, in order to be eligible for the p

universal craving for new experience. They ap- can any p rlze or pOSSIble Sense Of e‘aStefyi 
pear, however, to have failed to recognize that not pensate for,the Hermes Stram. t0 Whleh thlS e1
all people like to do the same thing at the same year-91d Chlid was. being éubJeCted?

time, nor do they all lose interest in a given pro- This particular IlluStrfltlon may be an extr
ject at the same moment. Equally true is it that case’ yet the fact that It 5_h°uk1 happen to e
they do not all desire the same types of new ex.- One Chlld presents Somethmg Of a Challeng‘
perience. One might draw the analogy between a our procedure' one Wonders how many 0

group of children being put through the paces inStruCtorS thioughwt the couritry have hag is
of a ready_made eempetitive play program and a parable experiences, not only With young child

party of travelers on a conducted tour. The dis- but those Of all ages' ,
appointments to individual travelers are a matter When Play Becomes Work e24;
of common knowledge. One of the most unfortunate consequences!" '

a:

l
i
e
l

I

l
I

  
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  

, competitive play program is the pressure placed
" on the instructor which expresses itself in nag-

. Activity robbed of fun takes on the char-
r of work, and the relationship between the
, ructor and the child tends to become strained.
e is one child who says, “Oh, that’s just like
, Miss S, we ust learn the r0pe exercises and

petition is a handcraft project, with the neces-
, to have articles ready at a given time for an
ibit, the pressure is apt to be very intense.
- instructor found it necessary to plead.” with
hild day after day to work on her rug until
u o’clock with the promise that “After this
I] play.” Does it not seem a little inconsider-
to put pressure of this sort upon a child the
I ent he is released from school? Moreover,
. n the pressure of the schoolroom is trans-
ed to the playground, where can children be
n cted to find relaxation? A hectic atmosphere
. ' y be inevitable in a work situation, but can we
ify it in a recreation program, particularly in
e times when everyone is already under heavy
in?

ot infrequently one finds with this type of
ram that the child works on his rug or gets
.- a marble contest as a favor to the instructor.
one child put it, "I
’t know that I want
ther boat, but I won’t
you down, Mr. Y.” To
the child continu-
ly in this position
v s to be taking undue
antage of him, in that
is usually the one who
to give in. There is
- doubt, also, but that
out of sympathy for
children, quite as
h as from any deliber-
intention to cheat, play leaders do all or a part
c work which is exhibited as that of children.

- is a well-known fact that under a competitive
m an instructor is forced to give his major
tion to the activity being fostered by the
ral office, regardless of the children’s wishes
: c time. Equally serious, if not more so, is
' fact that in order to have himself and his
‘I' ground recognized he must focus on the few
d _ ren who have ability. Although various
V mes have been devised to meet this criticism,
as points for the number of local entries in

j . 1 hand us out some more work.” When the'

IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS! 125

a contest, the fact remains that winning teams are
still the quickest means to recognition for the in-
structor.‘ In some instances even advancement
in salary hinges upon it. Instructors, like chil-
dren, are forced into the attitude, “Win at any
cost!” In some systems the rivalry between in-
structors is known to amount to hatred and has

found verbal expression in the presence of the
children.

It goes without saying that the play leader who
is under constant pressure to get things done and
to produce winning teams, can have little time to
know his children as individuals, without whicii'
knowledge personality guidance is impossible.
The gap between adults and children is difiicult
to bridge at best, even when the older person is
at ease and sincerely interested in getting close to
the child’s interests, wishes, and ambitions. A
hurried manner on the part of the instructor and
concern with getting children to do as he wishes,
may produce articles which can be placed on ex-
hibit, but it precludes anything more than .1
superficial relationship between the instructor and
the majority of his children.

Social workers making inquiries of play leaders
about the adjustment of individual children, Find
often that they know little more about the chil-

 

Ccmrtcsy Seattle Park Department

The satisfaction a boy has in kit. flying is suffic-
ient justification for including it in the program.

drcn with whom they deal in their classes, than
their names. This is perhaps inevitable, consid-
ering the large number of patrons with whom
they deal. It would also seem, however, to grow
out of the fact that despite the fact that we con-
tend we are more interested in what happens to
the child than in the activity itself, as our play-
ground programs are now organized, the success
of the project must come first. To illustrate:
are there not instances where a star player,

126 IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS?

because of his attitude or
behavior, should be kept
out of a game, yet because
of his importance to the
team is retained? Obviously
under such circumstances,
personality-needs are sacri-
ficed to points for the plav-
ground.

The Advantages for the
Administrator

Granted that there are
these undesirable features
of competition, what does
it have to commend it? The

chief advantages W 0 u 1 d Courtesy Seattle Park Department

The ccmpetitive element in athletics has become traditio
Is it desirable to extend it to all other play activiti

seem to accrue to the ad—
ministrator. With this type

of program, he can be sure of activity on every
ground. It keeps the weak instructors, particu—
larly, from getting into a rut. All instructors try
harder under a competitive scheme. Exhibits and
contests are excellent advertisements, and since
playgrounds are publicly supported the impor-
tance of showing results cannot be ignored.

Let us examine one or two of these points fur-
ther. What the playground administrator is in
reality saying then, is that he distrusts his instruc-
tors. Experience shows, he points out in his‘
defense, that there is something about a play-
ground which makes even the best leader reach
the stage where he is contented to hand out a bat'
and ball and call it a day, unless there is external
pressure to promote projects. Granted that this
be true, is one justified in exploiting children by
subjecting them to demands in excess of what
they can stand physically and emotionally, be-
cause instructors are inadequate? Instead of ap-
plying more and more pressure in the form of
additional competitive enterprises, would we not
possibly make more progress if we addressed our—
selves to the reasons why instructors fall down on
their jobs, and seek remedies for these?

Although first-hand evidence should be sought,
the following suggest themselves as possibilities:
Mental Hygiene authorities point out that laziness
is closely akin to discouragement. People become
discouraged when they fail to win recognition. Is
it not possible therefore that the instructors who
become inert do so because they grow discour—
aged? Some undoubtedly because of immaturity
or inadequate training, are not prOperly qualified.

 

 

Others, however, are in need of encouragem
advice, and recognition for the effort they ..
In this connection, the administrator who m
the complaints of his instructors that a rea
made program ties their hands, by saying t
there is nothing to prevent them from trying .
ditional projects locally, fails to recognize t
one reason they do not do so, is that such 1
projects do not win for them the same reco
t‘ion from the central office as a winning team
a city-wide competition. Naturally, there is dim
ished incentive. Moreover, like children wh
parents regulate every detail of their lives, t
come to depend upon this direction and are 1
when it is removed because they have not de

oped habits of resourcefulness and self-relia

There is also real need for relaxation after I:
ods of intense competition.

Some of the reasons for discouragement in .l
structors would seem to be inherent in the ‘
itself. Take only the large number of patr .
for whom one instructor is responsible, the di 4
sity of their ages and the inadequate facilit .
In many instances, as we well know, there is u I
one indoor workroom. Here is a problem in so 
organization to challenge even the most exp 
enced worker. Considering the fact that mos ,
our instructors have been trained to teach sk 'I
rather than to organize people for activity, i L
surprising that they often develop a hopeless .
tude. Left to his own devices on a playgro
where can a new instructor go for advice in

gards to organization principles? Our trai _‘

IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS? 127

urses are still very weak in psychology and
ciology of a practical nature.

Disadvantages from an Administrative
Viewpoint

 
   
      
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   

. Granted that a competitive program has de-
" 'ed practical advantages for the administrator,
I - there any disadvantages? Chief among these

uld seem to be the difficulty
keeping the numerical value
I activities in their point sys-
s satisfactory to the differ-
t instructors and children.
e immense amount of book-
eping also presents a prob-
m. Some playground direc-
rs have already abandoned
I int systems because they
estioned whether the cleri-
I work justified itself in
lue to the patrons. Others feel convinced that
does. On the whole, to the administrator who
ust produce results quickly, the advantages of a
ghly competitive program would, however,
em to outweigh the disadvantages, unless he is
ncerned with the subtle implications of his job.
so far as programs heighten nervous tension
1 patrons and instructors alike and destroy self-
nfidence in numbers of children, to that extent
es the soundness of our procedure seem open
‘I A question. Moreover, are we justified, particu-
‘ rly in a recreation program, to ask that the
ontaneous interests and wishes of the patrons
' repeatedly sacrificed to points for the play-
ound?

cinnati, Ohio.

Play leaders have themselves long been aware
t one of the most serious consequences of a
hly competitive program is the discouragement
'. I ich besets the many who can never reach the
It is encouraging to see that steps are now
'ng taken to remedy this state of affairs. Until
ite recently, however, it has generally been as-
ed that to the victor in the form of increased
\ f-confidence, only value accrues. Is this the
. ? Recent studies show startling results of the
1 age done to the physical condition of athletic

rs. What of the effect on their personalities
I the excessive amount of attention they receive,
(1 of this primary concern with their own suc-
5? Is this the kind of personality which is
l c t effective socially? Experience in mental
. 'ene clinics points to the fact that a strong
‘sire to excel, and undue concern with one’s own

   
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
  

l

"The ideal point system might be
considered one which would permit
and encourage child interest to dictate
child activity, and activities for which
points are given would be representa-
tive of [the child's real interest in
events out of which future and more
wholesome activities naturally flow."
—Public Recreation Commission, Cin-

success are tendencies which serve to isolate a

person from his fellows, contributing thus to

social maladjustment rather than adjustment.
This fact is often recognized by performers them-
selves. For example, one 15-year-old Marathon
swimmer said, “The girls knew that I would
probably win the trophy, and they seemed to re-
sent it. I imagine that they sort of imagined that
I should not go in the event
every year—that I should let
somebody else get it. The year
I got two I felt greedy. I felt
that I ought to give one to the
girl who came next.” Continu-
ing to speak of trophies, she
said, “When I was younger I
wouldn’t have tried so hard if
there weren’t trophies. Now
that I have a lot I don’t care.
I recognized myself that it
was just show-off, but nobody said anything
about it.”

In mental hygiene clinics we have an oppor-
tunity to observe the consequences in adult life
when show-off tendencies are exaggerated. Those
who have had an excessive amount of attention
in childhood seem to carry with them throughout
life the need to be supreme and to be continuously
admired. One recognizes them in the business
tyrant or the dominating parent. Since our play-
ground programs, as now organized, exaggerate
at one end show-off tendencies, and at the other,
increase inferiority feelings, our claims for char-
acter building would seem to be based on hopes
rather than facts.

The schemes now being devised to distribute
recognition among a wider number of children,
such as the focusing of attention on individual
progress, are to be commended as steps in the
direction of sounder procedure. Under any plan,
however, where all of the children are expected
to measure themselves against a given set of tests,
personality casualities are inevitable. Try as hard
as they may, some can never meet the standards
set up. Is there not need to take more account
of factors such as individual differences in mental
ability, physical structure and rate of growth, if
some children are not to win recognition without
effort, and others be unduly discouraged? Our
adult efforts to focus attention on individual
progress will, moreover, have little meaning for
children, unless there is an accompanying de-

 

128 IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS?

crease of emphasis on competition between indi-
viduals and playgrounds.

How Is'the Problem to Be Met?

There are among recreation leaders those
who are quite ready to admit that competition
has been overdone. “But what can we do,” they
ask, “when it seems to be what our patrons
want?” Obviously there is in all of us a strong
desire to outdo our fellows. It is certainly true
that trading on this impulse is the easiest way to
get people to do things, particularly things in
which they have no great interest. There does
remain the question, however, of whether compe-
tition with others is the only way in which we
derive pleasure. If so, why do little girls play
with dolls, boys construct, on their own initiative,
aeroplanes in basement workshops, people of all
ages join clubs, go on hikes, and the like? Appar-
ently some activities and experiences are enjoy-
able in themselves, quite apart from the fact of
being competitive. If our patrons demand only,
therefore, opportunities for competing with
others, have we not perhaps excessively whetted
their appetites for points and prizes, and over-
looked, in planning our programs, other possibili-
ties of satisfaction?

“All very well,” play leaders say, “but let us be
practical.” How are you going to keep interest
without a competitive point system? There seems
to be some evidence, they point out, that after a
project takes hold, competitive features can be
dropped without sacrifice of interest or standards
of performance. This was observed, for example,
in connection with the puppet shows and several
other projects in the South Park System in Chi-
cago. It was contended that these projects would
not, however, have assumed their present propor-
tions if competition had not been used in the
initial stages.

Is it possible to initiate projects and to keep
interest without a competitive point system? First
of all, are we not agreed that once we have struck
an interest there is no need
to worry about how to main-
tain it—that a genuine in-
terest is self-propelling? The
question is rather, therefore,
how to keep children on our
playgrounds without resort-
ing to competition. If we
must make use of artificial
means to get our projects

"Play activities are frequently overorganized.
Playground activities are by nature free
activities and their supervision should be
conducted to ensure this character. A time
for free choice of playground activity should
be definitely set aside so that particular
play interests may be satisfied.”-- From

Methods in Physical Education, by Williams,

Dambach and Schwendener.

     
   
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
  
  

started and to carry them on, is there not a sug-
gestion, at least, that we are failing to offer pa-
trons what they want? An answer to the earlier
question would therefore be, get better acquainted
with patrons and build programs around their
interests instead of trying to impose projects
from above. Practically, how might one proceed
to do this?

As a first step one should recognize that man
children and adults have clearly-defined interests
which, were the leader interested in explorin
them, could be discovered in conversation or b
means of check lists. From among these it woul 1
then be necessary to distinguish those which ca
be carried on spontaneously without help fro.
the instructor. With children this would be tru
of such activities as marbles, tops, rope jumping
games which they have for generations carrie
on by themselves. This would free the leader t
concentrate on those activities with which th
patrons need assistance, for example: dramatics
dancing, handwork, and the umpiring of athleti
games. If the instructor on a particular play
ground were not trained to direct an activity i
which interest was expressed, assistance fro
specialists or citizens in the community woul'
have to be sought.

Recreation leaders who have tried to procee
in this manner know from first-hand experience
however, that some people do not have clearl}
defined interests. With such as these it is neces
sary to make suggestions, to otter, as it were, .
bill of fare. Although in a sense this is what w
are doing with our city—wide programs, we over
look in the administration of them the importanc
of freedom of choice. Whether we elect an activ
ity or are coerced into it seems to make a tremen
dous difference. To the extent that we offer
child no alternative activities and make him fe
that he is a poor sport if he does not enter on
projects, we are exerting pressure.

In feeling that we must rely upon competiti
to initiate new enterprises, have we not failed 1-.
recognize the possibilities 0
using local demonstrations 0
activity, local exhibits, ge
uine enthusiasm for an a
tivity on the part of an i
structor or a few childre
as means to awaken intere
and secure participation?

“But interplayground co
petition builds communi

IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS? 129

loyalty. If we were to return to the older prac-
tice of allowing each playground to outline its
an program this would be lost,” playground
leaders argue. Once again is this not a case of
falling back upon competition as the easiest
neans, and failure to recognize other possibilities
for building community loyalty which might in
fact be more productive? Are we not overlook-
L-ng, for example, cooperation as a means of
strengthening loyalty?

One suggestion in this direction would be the
organization of playground councils from among
he patrons themselves, through which they would
ave an opportunity to share in the planning of
ctivities and policies. Can we delude ourselves
hat we are training children for future citizen-
hip when we fail to accord them the first right
f democracy, a chance to express their ideas, and
hand in fashioning the program?

If our early attempts at the establishment of
ommuniry councils were unsuccessful, is this not
ue to the way in which we set about to organize
ese groups? Merely to gather together a group
f representatives from the different civic and

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
  

oblems to discuss.

It is quite possible that we must continue with
r centrally determined play programs for
actical reasons: limitations in the training of

 

1cm one is assured of live activity of absorbing interest to them.

instructors and the need to produce tangible re-
sults quickly. Yet without more local autonomy

and less emphasis upon interplayground compe-

tition, it is difficult to see how patrons can be

granted freedom of choice in activities. To meet

this important personality-need would require
fundamental changes in our playground philoso-
phy and procedure. Something similar to the
spread of activity now presented longitudinally
throughout a year, would have to be horizontally
presented. With a variety of projects being pro-
moted simultaneously, the child could choose the
one, or several, most appealing to his individual
needs at the time. Then, instead of being moved
on arbitrarily by the administration to the next
project, he should be free to continue with an
activity until he has experienced all of his satis-
factions which it can afford him, and to proceed
to others in the tempo or progression peculiar to
his own personality needs. With a child who
tends to cling to one activity, the instructor would
need to determine whether this was due to: fear
of trying anything new, recognition easily won,
interest or ability above the average, and guide

usiness theindi-
oups be- vidual ac-
use w e cordingly.
el they That one
ould be instructor
terested could ad-
the play- minister
ound, is such a pro-
tenough. gram with-
f the ut- out assist-
ost im - ance from
rtance is specialists
that at or volun-
st some teers seems
em bers doubtful.
such a Yet t his
uncil plan of or-
ve a vital ganization
rest in ofactivities
pl a y- in groups
mud to a r o u n (1
art with—the kind of in- The children and adults taking part 'in this common interests, with the
est which grows out of checker tournament, held out-oF-doors on a emphasis placed upon satis-
ticipation in activities. playground, are apparently finding it an factions to the participants

rather than the winning of
points, can, if we make it
our objective, be more fully achieved than it is at
present. Those who are interested will find much

(Continued on page 160)

As to Competition

An executive who has served long in
recreation describes his experience in

developing competitive activities.

A s t h e recreation
movement in gen-
eral adopted a tech-
nique employing tests
and contests, with other
combat processes, to an
extent which makes our
procedure bad practice,
educationally P
It is a question which
few of us in the recrea-
tion leadership profes-
sion can answer with au-
thority, as competent
educators. The science
of education has been progressing. We took some
courses in our schooling, perhaps, years ago, but
our reading has not kept us abreast of the newer
advances in educational theory and practice, and
not many of us can claim to be tactical experts.
We are interested laymen, however. Our work
compels us to think in practical, if not technical
ways, about educational values. That work puts
us in a favored position; our patrons live so
vividly and intensely before our eyes, and con-
tinue to do so over the course of years. They do
not move into higher grades in the recreation
center, to disappear. Their lives develop before
us. We can’t escape the tendency to draw con-
clusions from intimate observation of what ex-
perience does to people. We are associated with
that experience in some of its most vital aspects.
We see child life completely absorbed in its oc—
cupations, once it finds itself in some specialized
interest of compelling appeal. We observe how

130

Courtesy Greenvitte, S. C.

 

Should activities of art significance, it is
asked, be kept out of the competitive field?

By V. K. BROWN

Superintendent Playgrounds and Sports
South Park Commissioners, Chicago

   
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
    

the compulsion of th
enthusiasm disciplin
the enthusiast—or rath
how it forces him to di
cipline himself. We 5
life organize itse
a r o u n d that interes
trace it through its evol
ing phases into the fin
patterning of persona
ity. After years of 100
ing on it' is inevitab
that we come to have n
tions about the effect a
recreation on life.

Along with those notions it is only natural th
we come to assume that our method of prom
ing those interests is associated with these resu
-—that the method itself was responsible for g
ting people into the experience which transt
them. Miss Svendsen’s paper in this issue ch
lenges that assumption, specifically, in respect
our use of a competitive technique.

The National Recreation Association has ask
me to open the discussion and interpret what '
have been thinking and doing, in connection w'
her paper, to lay our observations alongside he
and see where our oint thinking leaves us.
doing so I make no claim of being an autho '
in the science of education. I merely believe t
we can best collaborate with those who are s
of their scientific ground by offering our vie
, in full appreciat'
of their willingness to be helpful in bringing
best thought on the subject to us for incorporat

H;
o
H
S
3"
‘33.
~
:3"
o
t<
é
t<
U‘
a
S
O
'1
('1'
3"

AS TO COMPETITION 131

into our practical operations.
I know that helpfulness is
the spirit and intent of Miss
Svendsen’s article. I know,
too, that she has had experi-
ence as a practical playground
worker. She is staff member,
associated with Miss Claudia
\Vannamaker, and the staff
technicians have collaborated
in giving us the views expressed in her paper. I
have for them, and they deserve, extraordinary
respect. For years they have patiently devoted
themselves to exhaustive soundings into the hid-
den depths in the lives of thousands of children,
inquiring into the causes of personality conflict.
They have had no theories to hamper them. They
have been surprisingly reluctant even in formu-
lating a hypothesis. “Recreation” has persuaded
them to break their habitual reticence, to give us
the benefit of these years of expert study, in sil-
ent research into the facts of behavior. I think
t a notable day in the recreation movement when
hey consent to do so. Their observations are not
0 be misunderstood as being the pronouncements
Of a set of theorists; they are rather investiga-
‘ors. We who rationalize our service into what
‘ e consider its basic principles are much more
. eorists than they.
As I understand their case against competition
, - a tool which we employ, it is not directed
ainst a frank and reasonable recognition of
ch elements in an activities program as are com-
titive in the nature of things, such as athletics
(1 sports, for example. It' is rather a challenge
‘ the tendency to put on the same basis of com-
titive organization many of the other elements
1 a rounded program of service to play needs
_ hich might better be promoted, in their view,
other than competitive techniques. That hits
) own department and its policies with especial
pact, and it was doubtless for that reason that
have been asked to open up the subject for
eral discussion in these pages.

    
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
    
     
   

se of Competition a Natural Deve10pment

None of us can claim, probably, certainly we
-« ’t in my own organization, that we came to use
~ petition in recreation service administration
a result of any inspiration. The movement has
en up the competitive method of organizing,
moting, and operating our activities for the
e reasons that the northern pioneer used logs

"Friendly competition is manifested
in a common field of enioyment and
brings to participants a dawning con-
sciousness of 'a common purpose' and
unifying principle--- Friendly competi-
tion, as a schoolmaster in childhood
and :youth, shows the way to zest in
life, to mutual appreciation. to sympa- the first thing we thought of. ‘
thy, to fairness, to generosity, to good
sportsmanship."—-Ccorgc E. fohnson.

to build his cabin,or the south-
westem pioneer used dobe
bricks—because it was close
at hand and seemed adapted
to our purposes. It was all
about us, and naturally was

Life itself is competitive, with
a brutal directness and cruelty
which necessitates the devel-
opment of protective devices in all living crea-
tures. If we gave it a thought at all, when we
started using the competitive method, we proba-
bly justified ourselves on the grounds that it does
no harm to toughen the skin gradually against
unavoidable bumps and abrasions. John Richards
observed, early in the game, that human research
has been for a long time following the trail of
evolution, back to the brute, and that in our con-
tribution to educational thought we might well
concentrate our attention on the trend of evolu-
tion upward toward the man who may be brought
into being. And taking stock of his urges to
combat, which seem so prominent a part of the
raw material with which he starts that finishing
process, it seemed that some of those urges, at
least, might be channeled so the effort of thew
and sinew should take a direction making for
social progress. We could rely on the ambition
to win. It was not going to walk out and leave
us fiat ; the old fighting instinct was too common
a possession for that. But if we could take ad-
vantage of it, to enforce some of the things which
were demanded by urges we couldn’t rely on,
then we might get' somewhere.

Accordingly, we told our athletic aspirants:
“Here, now, fighting fair is as much a part of the
game as any fighting at all. It isn’t a win until
the way you win stands inspection. From now on
in, we are going to decide champions by a little
different score. In any contest the fact that you
are there, on time, ready for action, will get you
a score of twenty, win or lose—that’s for Relia-
bility. And if you play the game up to its finest
traditions of fairness, taking adverse breaks and
decisions square on the chin, like a man, without
a yelp or whimper, you’ll get an additional score
of fifty, win or lose—that’s for Sportsmanship.
Then, if you come out on top as victor, in the
contest, you get a score of thirty—that’s for
\Vinning.”

It was an experiment, but it worked. We had
been preaching sportsmanship with indifferent

132 AS TO COMPETITION

result. we stopped exhorting athletes to be good,
and merely put it up to them to get themselves
in hand, and be good on their own account, or
take the consequences, standing up. The change
on our athletic floors was not merely notable, it
was revolutionary and almost instantaneous. We
decided that preaching sportsmanship—or any-
thing else—was apparently in the world’s cham-
pionship class as a non-producer of results.

This method brought public opinion around to
some standards of good behavior in sport. Be-
fore team followers had condoned sharp practice,
if it succeeded. Now dirty play was attributed to
inexcusable bone-headedness. Team members and
followers, by public opinion, kicked habitual dirty
players off teams, insisting that they were liabili-
ties, not assets. Men who had gloried in the ex—
cuse that they “couldn’t control their temper” set
themselves the hurried task of learning to
control it.

It worked all right. For almost twenty years
it has continued to work. And because it worked
in the out-and—out competitive field, we adapted
the idea to a broadening program made up, in
part, of activities which are not necessarily com-
petitive in nature. That is the field in which Miss
Svendsen thinks we are losing educational values
by invoking a competitive spirit where it pr0perly
does not belong. Perhaps we are. I’m not sure
about it either way.

But I’m not here to imitate the village drunk-
ard in the window of the saloon hoping someone
might give him another drink, who cocked a
bleary eye at the
sky and remarked,
“Looksh ’sif it
might rain!” A si-
lence— “ ’N then again, it might
not !”—another pause—“Am I right,
or wrong?”

Purposes Served by Competition
in Athletic Programs
_I’m not ready to ,compromise to
any such extent as that. For I think
that competition, entirely aside from
the athletic sports which cannot go
on without it, has served a useful
purpose in our service. For we be-
gan applying the principle to our
general program as soon as we found
it working as well as it did in our
established competitive sports. We
worked it out to apply, for instance,

Does an exhibit always need the com-
petitive element to be successful?

to wrestling, after it proved itself effective in
solving some of our previous difficulties with
basketball. Our idea was that it“ was bad organi-
zation on our part to present our athletes with .
situation in which their ideals as sportsmen ra

counter to their ambitions as athletic contenders
The ambition to excel was so powerful a moti
vation that the abstract ideal of clean sport gav
way before it, when victory lay almost withi

reach, and might be grasped by taking some sligh
advantage of an opponent. We realized that i

the heat of action it was expecting too much 0
our athletes when we looked to them to sacrific
their chances of winning a coveted succes
merely because someone had told them that th
code of a gentleman is supposed to rule, even i

the field of sport. Most athletes want to win muc
more than they want to be gentlemen, and whe
we allowed the situation to interpret itself t
them in terms of conflict between ideals and am
bitions, the responsibility lay on our faulty or
ganization, if the ideals came out second bes
under the stress of that hard choice. We shoul
not employ a system involving any such difficul
alternative.

Our new scoring system was apparently suc
ceeding in making sportsmanship, as an abstra
ideal, pull in harness alongside the ambition t
excel, and avoiding thereby a conflict situatio
Under this system, it was no longer profitable t
resort to foul tactics. As a result, a compariso
of our personal foul records in the game of bas
ketball with similar records in our nearby uni
versities showed that there were less tha
one-fourth the number of fouls co
mitted by our teams in their champi01
ship series as compared with the numb

 

Photo by Elmer. .2:

AS TO COMPETITION 133

actually committed by the university players dur-
ing the concurrent season. It seemed to us that
a system working so well in the case of basketball
Has worth experimenting with in application to
ur entire program of competitive sport. With
his thought in mind, we revised the system to
take it applicable to such standard events as
ack and gymnastic meets, swimming contests,
d the entire program of competitive athletics.
eantime, the announcement of results brought
it some additional facts with respect to the new
oring system.

 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
 
 

Since the loser might score 70 points out of a
ssible_ 100 by receiving credit for perfect
porfsmanship and Reliability, the losing teams
I“ parently did not feel that all was lost when
ey lost the game. \Ve had previously experi-
1ced great dichulty in keeping a losing team in
1eir subsequent schedule of competition. Losers
ere in the habit of forfeit-
' g the remaining games on
ir schedule—a fact which
eatly interfered with the
rrying out of our sched-
s, and which, incidentally,
prived our teams of prac-
_ e essential to their future

velopment as players. The
w system had a marked
ect on the number of for-
'tures, and teams remained
the competition longer, ap-
rently because the reports
competition credited them
h something, at least, in
way of a score. In order further to encour-
this new attitude, we began listing, from
th to month after each park, the record of
ntire series of representative teams, with the
scores in all of the competition held during
year to date, rating the parks in the order of
total score of points won in the competitive
ram. Even losing teams contributed, of
 to this total score of the park institution
[1 they represented, and in order to see their
placed well in comparison with other parks
. cessful athletes encouraged their less suc-
l co-representatives to stay with a losing
ule for the sake of what points they could
up to swell the general total. Here we felt
a practical means of developing institutional
ties and institutional spirit which was of in-
ilable help to us in attempting to evolve

 
 

0

others.

The zest of rivalry, the thrill of measur-
ing one's strength or skill or ingenuity
against that of one's Fellows teaches
youth to know both his comrade and
himself. He learns by his failures as well
as by his successes—if these are guided
constructivelyuto respect worthiness
wherever he Finds it—in himself or in
In smoothing the way For sen-
sitive young personalities, let us not
wholly deny to them either the ioys or the
lessons of keen, clean competition.—

W. V. Bingham, Editor, Cbz'ld Study.

neighborhood consciousness and solidarity around
our community institutions.

Extending the Principle to Other Activities

After this" system had begun to show results,
our next step was to add to the purely athletic
program which had become traditional, certain
new events which such a system now made possi-
ble, but which we had not been successful in in-
augurating under our old process of promoting
entirely independent and unrelated events having
no direct connection with each other. We had
wanted, for example, to add to our program some
events appealing to boys who were debarred by
physical disabilities from any chance of success
in the more strenuous athletic contests, or for
boys whose interests lay in other directions than
physical. W e felt that mechanical airplanes, sail-
boats, model motor-boats, kites and similar me-
chanical contrivances, might
well compete in regattas or
contests, but we had never
been able to successfully
stage such contests. One rea-
son for our failure, we felt
sure, lay in the fact that com-
munity opinion enshrined an
athletic hero, but looked with
no great favor on mechanical
genius. Now, however, we
were able to enlist even the
proudest of our athletes in
encouraging the lad of me-
chanical bent to add his ef-
fort to the athletes for the
sake of community standing in the summation of
points, and thereby dignify even a kite tourna-
ment in community opinion, and also in the esti-
mation of the boy, who rather shamefacedly was
really interested in kites but had not dared to
admit that fact, for fear of losing prestige in a
chorus of derision which would previously have
greeted any acknowledgement on his part of such
an interest. \Vhether this was indeed the reason,
of course, one cannot say, but certainly the sys-
tem of competitive scoring was inaugurated and
applied to these craft activities, and for the first
time in our experience we found ourselves able
successfully to promote such craft activities with
no lack of entrants, where we had previously
bulletined announcements of such activities with-
out getting any response from the boys of the
park neighborhoods.

—  ‘ -

134 AS TO COMPETITION

Finding ourselves successful in adding this
newer type of event to our established athletic
program, we then went still further afield, and
added some events which were not even mechan-
ical but were rather of aesthetic appeal—-—such
events, for instance, as a lantern parade, a paper
fiower show, a competitive doll exhibit, puppet
show, sand court construction contests, and the
like, where the fundamental interest, so far as
we could see, lay rather in the creation of objects
of beauty than in objects of mechanical perform-
ing abilities. I have no doubt that the scheme of
scoring all performers to the credit of the com-
munity they represent was an important factor
in our success in adding events of this sort to our
annual program.

I think, beyond question, the competitive sys—
tem materially helped us in getting many of these
activities underway. After they got underway,
however, there began to develop objections to
their competitive organizatioin. Some of the ath-
letes began to complain that events of this sort,
if unsuccessful in their communities, tended to
drag down the actual athletic accomplishment
which they had themselves scored in the physical
sports and contests, and thereby cheapened their
achievement. Even some of our staff objected
that we were defeating the fundamental educa-
tional values of events like the lantern parade by
involving the competitive spirit in an endeavor
which should stand on the plane of art for art’s
sake, and where freedom of imagination should
be granted everyone interested in working out his
own ideas of beauty, without regard to any ham-
pering thought as to how his product would ap—
peal to a set of judges when it was presented in
a competitive review. Other members of our or-
ganization insisted that we were overdoing the
competitive idea in bringing our various neigh-
borhoods together only on a basis of trying to
outdo each other in every event, that we should
now step into a field of bringing even rival com-
munities into common enterprise from time to
time cooperatively, in a pooling of effort, rather
than competitively, in a contest of effort.

The drift, as I see it in looking on from the

central administration office, is now toward a re—_

strict‘ion of the competitive motive to those things
which are more in their nature dependent upon a
combat form of organization, such as our athletic
and sports competitions, and leaving events which
have any art significance out of the competitive
field entirely. Our photographic exhibit is now

    
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

an exhibit, without the prize and competitio
motivation. For the last two years we have stage
our lantern parade on the water, in the form 0
a review of decorated boats, in a Venetian Nigh
spectacle, entirely outside our field of competition
Our puppet shows are no longer contests in Mar
ionette drama, but rather a series of exposition
in which each park presents its own playlet i
turn, with no thought of out-doing other park
for the sake of score.

Perhaps we have outgrown the stifiing effect
of tradition and no longer need the competiti
motivation to help us in inaugurating a new even
Perhaps, unconsciously, the educational limi .
tions of the competitive spirit have forced the
selves upon our attention and compelled us I
change to a sounder basis. Any person who h
had long experience with competition certain
must realize that there are serious implications i
an exclusive competitive technique. In the a
tention we give the victor we are likely to a
sume that dealing with competition we are de
ing with success, whereas in reality competition
a machinery pointed, in the main, toward failu
Only a small percentage can ever achieve digni
and a consciousness of power or capacity out r
competition. It is the machinery of defeating .
except the absolute best in any endeavor. W
ther the values of success for the few offset t
losses incident to failure for the many, is a qu
tion which I, at least, am not competent to answ

In my own administration we have attempt
to offset this numerical preponderance of failu
however, by increasingly splitting our competiti
into more and more refined classifications, in or
to pass such success as does result, around an r
creasingly larger circle. We have worked out [
techniques of scoring on a basis of age aims,
splitting performing ability in various games
into component and isolated skills, and tes
each of those skills, in turn. We have analy
success into highly specialized skill in an indi ‘
ual event, such, for example, as a dash, on
one hand, and into high grade proficiency,
reaching steller proportions in any indivi J
event but making for all around ability in a n ‘
number of events; and we have even taken 
athletes where they are, at a beginning of a . ‘
son, repeated tests week by week for a perio 1
time, and scored the improvement shown over 
period of time, to encourage the person of
original performing level to invest his time 1

(Continued on page 161)

I
v
l

   
   
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
  

What are you doing For the
thiidren in the institutions
iyour city? Here is a very
hallenging Field oi service.

By ERNA D. BUNKE

National Recreation Association

T is spring and along with the first blue cro-
cus and the first yellow daffodil comes a
warm, happy sense of “aliveness.” Dis-
rded and forgotten ideals march disturb-
' gly before us and once again our thoughts

nd dreams are of youth—of happiness—of
conquest.

Perhaps you, a leader in the recreation field,
ye sitting beside an open window with your
air tilted back against the wall, your hands
hind your head and an earnest thoughtful
'pression in your eyes. Perhaps you are

inking, “What more can I do to serve my
mmunity?”

' If you are, you can bring your chair down
Pith a convincing bang—you can pound your
Ghsk in true dramatic fashion and you can say
tiumphantly, “I have it, I have it—blind, deaf,

ippled children! Children in orphanges, hos-
! p’tals, refOrmatories! What an opportunity!"

It is indeed a chance to give some fine help
' to your community, a chance to bring song and
Jdance to those who sing and dance but little.

Courtesy Albany Orphan Asylum.

Serving Your Community Institutions

 

 

In boxing, baseball and sports and games of
all kinds you will find them hard to beat!

The Problem

There are approximately:

123,000 children in institutions for depend-
ents.

23,000 children in institutions for delin-
quents.

22,000 children in Day Nurseries.

160,000 men and women in Homes fOr the
Aged.

There are thousands of children in institu-
tions for the deaf, blind and crippled. This is
a challenging problem.

Modern child welfare programs point more
and more toward the placement of children in
foster homes, but institutions will be with us
for many years to come and perhaps institu-
tions of a certain kind will always be with us.

135

 

13o SERVING YOUR COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONS

Food, shelter, clothing, education are pro-
vided. Yet institutions, because of their very
nature, cannot provide that individual attention
so necessary to the fullest development and hap-
piness of the children.

Recently a group of women were asked to
tell some of the experiences of their childhood
which had made deep impressions upon them.
Selected at random here are a few of their
replies:

“I loved sitting in an apple tree in our or—
chard, eating apples sprinkled with salt and
reading over and over ‘Anne of Green Gables’.”

“We had an old express wagon and an im-
aginary milk route. Every morning we left
‘milk’ at certain stones or trees. We collected
tickets and then came home to a lunch which
Mother served to
us on the lawn
near a big pine
tree?’

“Mother saved
all her slightly worn dish pans
for us so we could use them
for coasting down the hill.”

“I will always remember
how we got up early mornings
to pick the first May flowers
and dandelions. We took them,

wilted and drooping, to a neigh-
bor.”

“I think the thing that stands
Out most clearly in my mind
is my constant bargaining with
God. If I were lost in the
woods near our house there
would be a scared plea ‘ 11,
God if you will let me find my
way out I will read four chapters of the Bible
when I get home.’ ‘If you will let me go to
the party I won’t read stories in school any-
more.’ ‘If you will let my hair curl I will

never, never tell another lie.’ ”

All simple, normal experiences, many of
which must obviously be denied to children in
institutions. How can 260 children get up early
to pick May flowers? How can 100 girls sit
in apple trees and read “Anne of Green
Gables”? And yet the desire to do those or
similar things is present in the minds of chil—
dren in institutions as well as in the minds of
those children who live at home. A satisfac-

Not only baseball but volley ball
has its enthusiastic supporters.

 

Courtesy Albany Orphanage.

tory outlet for these desires must be provide
in some way.

A Recreation Program May Be the Answe

Perhaps the nearest approach to a solutio
is an adequate recreation program. If t
primary purpose of institutions is to provi
the resocializing and rehabilitating influenc
so necessary, they must remain an integr
part of their communities. Recreation of
fitting kind tends to provide the nec‘essar
carry-over influence of the outside communi
into the more restricted environment of t
institution, and not only does it influence t
children but it provides within the employ
group an awareness of the social service co
tent of their jobs. There is no institution t

large or too small to provide some degr

of recreation and it is important to hat
that recreation in the hands of an expert.
If the executives of all institutions firm
believed this statement, if trained recreati
workers cou
be employ
in all the
i n s t itutio
then the pro
lem would
comparative
simple. But

“We ha

no money f I
play.”

“Don’t y
think you’
g o i n g a
too far wh
you say
have to have organized leisure time for our ch
dren? Why, when I was a boy—”

“I tried having a recreation director and
didn’t work. I had to force the children to a
out with him for calisthenics and drills.”

“No, we have no play problems because
have no time for play.”

Failure to see the real value of play
wrong conception of play—religious conditio
—all tend to influence recreation in instit
tions. Often the chief stumbling block is la
of funds.

Over two years ago the National Recr

tion Association started a new service—t a

   
  

SERVING YOUR COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONS 137

promotion of Play in Institutions. This work
was initiated because of a demand for help from
people working in institutions. “\Vhat games
' can our boys play after supper ?” “How would
. you conduct a cottage drama tournament?”
“\Vhat sort of play equipment should we have
in our baby playroom ?” These are some
of the questions asked. Usually the Associa-
tion .goes into an institution upon invitation
:only. A study is made of their play facilities,
both indoor and outdoor, their play time, their
leadership problems
and their program.
Suggestions of a prac-
tical nature are then
'Submitted to the in-
stitution. There is a special
bulletin called “Play in In-
stitutions” sent to the vari-
ous institutions whose pur-
pose is to stimulate interest,
to bring new recreation sug-
gestions and to serve as an
exchange of ideas among in-
stitutions. The Association
has visited about 300 institu-
Oions throughout the country
and has about 450 institu-
' tions on the bulletin mailing
list. It has conducted nine
training c o u r s e s for the
[Workers of institutions. A
I Dery cordial reception has
'isen given to this service.
orkers in institutions have
al problems and they wel-
lome assistance.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

 

.unicipal Recreation De-
. partments Arc Helping

 

p

Many municipal recrea-
on departments are giving some splendid
1p to institutions in their city. Louisville
Ts a traveling instructor available to institu-
t ons once or twice a week; it has a year round
Service Bureau which furnishes leadership and
uipment for picnics, parties, banquets; it
¥lers and encourages the use of its very com-
} ete recreation library; it invites institution
‘orkers to enroll in the training courses; it
#ranges for certain groups to use the swim-
l‘ng pool free of charge; it maintains a “Rov-
i'i Storyteller,” available at any time by ap-

 

l

The magic oi "Once upon a time" casts
its spell on children in institutions.

puintment; and it meets with local social agen-
cies for promoting a unified—cooperative pro-
gram.

Philadelphia may well be proud of having a
full-time director of Play in Institutions. This
worker is employed by the Philadelphia Play-
grounds Association and gives constant per-
sonal help to institutions, holds training
courses for the workers, organizes and trains
volunteer workers. The Association issues
attractive little memoranda with green and
' orange covers and constant remind-
ers of the service they have to offer.

Were you thinking of—laying out a
new playground? buying equipment
for baseball?

1".

 

Courtesy Reading, I’m, Community Chest

Do you know where you can find—active and
quiet games? rainy day games? puzzles?

Did you ever try a— play day? shadow party?
fun night?

In Albany the recreation department sends
a summer w ork e r into institutions, and
throughout the entire year the institutions in
the city are invited to participate in any of the
city-wide playground contests.

In San Francisco special programs such as
Christmas plays, the playground circus and a
folk dance festival are taken to the County

138 SERVING YOUR COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONS

Home and the hospitals. The director says,
“The old pe0ple seem to love the playground
children. Their faces just beam while they
watch them play.”

The Department of Playgrounds, Washing-
ton, D. C., contributes to the recreation pro-
gram of a number of institutions of the city,
lending play leaders and conducting activities.
It places a year-round worker at the children’s
hosptial. The director says, “The problem is
complex. The activities for sick children are
so few and the utmost delicacy is required for
handling cases of heart trouble and of hope-
lessly crippled children. The worker adapted
to the situation must be rarely gifted, infin-
itely gentle and incapable of discouragement.
Our worker uses storytelling, little songs, in-
genious handcraft projects for which the ma-
terials are easily available and yet very light
to handle, and rhythm in talk, song and motion
as a means of spiritual relief from suffering.”

Recently this same worker carried her ser-
vice out of the hospital into the homes of a
number of children who are crippled or have
a heart disease. She states, “I have visited
many of the homes of these unfortunate chil-
dren and have pointed out ways of using
crumpled bits of paper to make chains or scrap
books. I have always met with cooperation on
the part of the parent and believe that as this
plan progresses we will find homes growing
more orderly, children and mothers awakening
to the joy of making pretty things, saving
bright paper, collecting sprays of leaves and
putting to use strings and scraps which would
otherwise be thrown away.”

Reading Pa., was one of the first cities in the
country to devote considerable time and effort
to this phase of work. It now has a year-
round trained recreation worker and offers the
services of this worker to institutions at least
once a week. During the summer there are
two additional traveling play leaders who go
from one institution to another. The year-
round worker finds many interestnig experi-
ences. She says, “In one place I started a card
tournament with the men. It was very difficult
to approach them but after a number of visits
and talks with each one, their shyness and
their ‘1 don’t care what happens to me’ attitude
was gone. I taught them Five Hundred,
Rummy and other games and played with each
one at his bed. Then we had a card tourna-

ment and it so happened that I was the cham-
pion. The men had a great time trying to tak

my laurels away from me.”
* 2|: =x< a: a:

“The children can hardly wait until their tem-
peratures are taken so that they can come to
hear the stories and play the games. Recently
I conducted a preliminary bubble blowing con-
test and even the bed patients had their pipes,I
Every time a big bubble was made the young4
sters had to shout to tell me about it. Yo
should have seen the sparkle in their eyes a

“Sometimes I go into a hospital and the chil-
dren call out ‘Oh, here comes the Story Lady.’

“The boys join the girls in folk dancing—and
like it.”

Many other cities are giving fine service in this‘
work. One city restricted in its budget provide
occasional high spots for children in institutions
a Treasure Hunt—A Red Bandana Hike—~Easte
Carol singing. Another city organized a six
weeks’ volunteer program to help the institution
out with their summer recreation work.

This is fine, invaluable service which thes1
people are giving to their communities!

For children in institutions we want the ve _
best. In one community the children are singin
only out of discarded hymn books, sent in by
thoughtless citizen. In another community th
children are singing Russian folk songs, Englis
ballads and other beautiful songs suitable f
children. In one community the children oc
sionally appear on church or club programs an
sing and recite in forlorn fashion, an exhibiti
of orphans. In another institution the childre
produce “The Pied Piper of Hamlin” and lovel
festivals for children. The baseball team here
scheduled to play against the high schools a
finest private schools in the city—not because t
boys are “poor little orphans” but because the
opponents respect their skill in playing baseba
As one superintendent said, “On the athletic fie
there is no yesterday, no tomorrow—there is on
today. People do not care who the boy’s pare
were, or how much money he has. They a

concerned only with the question ‘Can he pl
ball?’ ”

  
   
   
  
 
  

What More Can Be Done?

A recreation executive is a tremendous for
in his community, and there is a fine confiden’

in his ability and his standards. He brings to
(Continued on page 161)

Recreation

lZOl'

Crippled Children

WV

 

when the world
. celebrated t he
l.rthday of “ The
Child,” this ex-
.eriment had its in-
ception, born of a
*sire to make pos-
h le for crippled
. ildren a child-
od as rich and
verse in its play
' periences as that
'f any n o r m al
wild. The challenge
(1 the opportunity
re great, for there seemed to be little realiza-
n of the large number of children comprising
'5 group—in just two clinics there are 13,000—
. d there was a tendency to accept their inability
play anything beside table games as inevitable.
'VVith Dr. Charles LeRoy Lowman, Chief of
i ft of the Orthopaedic Hospital School, not
I y an internationally known orthOpaedic sur-
’ on but a far-sighted leader in educational work
the crippled child, and Mr. Raymond E. Hoyt,
. o rintendentof the Los Angeles Playground and
“" reation Department, we set
ut developing plans and car-

'N the season

,1

I

 

A happy discovery for the physically handi-
capped--they need not be debarred from games!

By HORTENSE L. WILLIAMS

Director of Recreation
Orthopaedic Hospital School, Los Angeles

\Ve faced a two-
sided problem —
first, the institu-
tional side, and sec-
ond, the needs of
children scattered
throughout the
community.
The hospitals in
Los Angeles are
for operative and
clinic care with no
convalescent home
work to any appre-
ciative extent; hence
the great opportunity
to build figuratively a bridge for the crippled
child to walk over into the natural recreation
center of his community—the playground. The
Playground and Recreation Department loaned
part of the writer’s time to the hospital where
the experiments were first carried on, the finan-
cial responsibility being borne by interested pa-
trons of the work, and later the Department made
a place on the program of one of the recreation
centers for the orthopaedic work.
The experiment has been carefully watched
over by Dr. Lowman to make

Delegates to the International sure that the play given was

r 'g out experiments to make Recmation Congress t0 be held suitable from a therapeutic

u theories a reality for the at L“ Angel" in JUIY' Will be standpoint as great harm may be

' . . . ' t t d' ' th '- . .
‘ dicapped children of Los An- :emedsezcri'gezegrai”waifgg; done in some instances by un-

1 es at least, and a possibility a recreation director of long wise activities, while well chosen

c! crippled children elsewhere.

experience.

and properly planned activities
139

140 RECREATION FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN

may in a measure be made corrective. As all of
this may seem formidable to the recreation
worker, already busy with many complex mat—
ters, we have tried to organize our findings in
such a way that they will protect the child on one
hand, and on the other will demand nothing more
than rudimentary knowledge on the part of the
recreation worker. We have been aided in the
actual execution of the work by the local uni-
versities who have sent us cadets and by hosts of
interested volunteers.

The work resolves itself into several parts:
(I) Bedside work.

(2) Hospital playground work for convales-
cents, most of whom are in wheel chairs or on
gernys.

(3) Clinic cases who come for further care.
(It is important to fill up the long wait for the
doctor.)

(4) Groups organized for special activities
from the clinic cases, such as
classes and clubs.

(5) Social affairs for either
clinic or hospital.

(6) G r o u p s of children
brought to the city playground
for play.

(7) Social activities for high
school people and young adults
at the city playground.

(8) Club and special inter—
est groups organized among
this same age group.

Even in the beginning the
field to draw upon was large.
The Orthopaedic H o s p i t al
School has over 8,000 cases in
its files, over 5,000 of which
are active at all times. The
turnover of the hOSpital is
about 125 a month. To this has
since been added for the play-
ground work any crippled per-
sons with whom we could make
contact. The field covered has
included:

(I) Adaption of sports and games under the
variable conditions.

(2) Development of dramatics from such sim-
ple forms as play reading among the patients of
a ward to the presentation of plays, operettas and
circuses in which wheel chairs, crutches and

 

And they may know the icy of par-
ticipating in out-of—door sports.

braces were somehow incorporated in the sche
of things so as not to be obvious.

  
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
 

(3) Dancing, from which few .need- be e -
cluded as rhythm is the object sought, whether
be in social or folk or arm dances.

(4) Handwork that leans to the social rath
than the craft (the latter is cared for by the o
cupational therapeutists). For example, Chris
mas ornaments made for their own tree, part
favors made for an affair in which they we
hosts and hundreds of things that are just fun i
play with.

(5) Social activities which take two forms
entertaining and being entertained. In the fo
mer they can become leaders and plan and dire
the games and features as well as return t
kindnesses of friends and benefactors. In t
latter they are becoming conversant with soc'
usages and conduct—are growing into mo
social beings.

In all this work runs the s'
ver thread of group activi
The handicapped c h i l d i
through his care, treated alwa
as an individual and not a me
ber of a group. Hence he 105
the benefit derived from sha
ing his joys and sorrows an
experiences, and he is deprive
of the advantages of team pla
For that reason the gam
stressed have been team game
no matter how simple.

One part of the work that h
grown like a mushroom h
been the social club activities .
the high school people and t
young adults. Our parties oft
number two hundred. There a
crutches, wheel chairs and ev
casts in evidence, to say not]
ing of braces, and then the lar
group who do not show at
glance the handicap, such as t
stiff hip cases. With patien
it has been possible to teach
large percentage to dance by iinding the rhyth ,4.
of each person. Those who do not dance enj '
watching with an intensity that at first see
strange. All parties, however, have a genero 
proportion of games in which everyone c .

( C ontr’nucd on page 162) l‘

J
l

1
l

 

 

Courtesy Camp Life

If there is a more enjoyable sport than swimming it
has yet to be discovered! Ask any qirl who swims!

Swimming—The Ever Popular Sport

T Look Park in Northampton, Massachusetts,
A the recreation park donated to the city by
Mrs. F. N. Look in memory of her hus-

band, is one of the most modern and best equip-
ped outdoor swimming pools in New England.
The pool itself is of concrete construction, 160’
by 75’, with a depth of three to four feet in more
than 75 per cent of the pool area. The large
amount of wading area available makes the pool
CXceptionally well adapted for recreational activi-
ties. The diving area is located in the center of
one side with a depth variation of 9% feet under
the 10-foot diving board to 8 feet under the two
3% foot diving boards. The separation of the

diving area from the general swimming area by
cork floats has proved to be a protection for the
swimmers as well as the divers. The diving
boards are all international regulation spring
boards.

Amusement features include a 30 foot water
slide, two 48 inch canvas covered balls, two large
“corker-bobbers,” rubber animals, and rubber
balls of various sizes, all of them furnished to
the swimmers without charge.

The shower, locker, filter and first aid rooms
are all located in an attractive brick building be-
side the pool. The large balcony, which runs
the entire length of the swimming pool area,

141

l‘hf. DWIJWJWIIVU—JHB Lil/BK I’UI’ULAK b'l’UK'l

provides accommodations for many spectators.
The building, commonly called the locker build-
ing, also contains the office of the park manager
and a luncheonette completely equipped with
steam table, soda fountain and candy counters.

The water in the pool is city filtered water
which is refiltered at the pool through three 84-
inch sand filters. It is kept free from bacteria by
chlorine gas automatically fed. Complete recir-
culation through the filters is accomplished every
eight hours. Various
tests by the State chem-
ist have shown the water
to be absolutely free
from any B. Coli.

To insure absolute sanitation, the man—
agement has on hand over 1,500 swim-
ming suits which are used by the pool
patrons instead of privately owned suits.
These suits are laundered and sterilized
after every rental. They are all wool in
various colors and styles. The suit dis-
pensing facilities are so arranged that a
swimmer cannot obtain a suit until he has
taken a shower with soap and warm water.

Swimming pool patrons are well pro-
tected while in the pool by trained life
guards who are constantly on the alert.
During the past season the pool life guards
were all college students from Columbia,
New York University, Worcester Poly-
technic Institute, University of Virginia,
Savage School of Physical Education and
Smith College. As it was not necessary
for all to be on_duty- at the pool at the same time
they were employed in some other capacity at the
locker building. Two of the guards were licensed
examiners, while all were registered senior life-
savers in Red Cross. The life guard stan was
headed by a guard captain, and the entire organi-
zation came under the direct supervision of the
park manager.

The pool opened for the first time on July 4,

1930, with an attendance of over a thousand.
During the first season 27,000 people used the
pool and its facilities. In 1931 this number had
increased to 33,000, while the daily average of
355 in 1930 rose to 491 to 1931. The small ad-
mission fee of 25 cents for adults and 15 cents
for children includes rental of the suit, towel and
locker, together with a warm water shower and
swim.

um

At Look Park, Northampton,the swim-
ming pool is the center of interest.

Swimming Facilities in Portland

The Park Department of Portland, Oregon,
maintains seven swimming tanks, which in addi-
tion to their function as recreation facilities have
been the means of wiping out a very objection-
able record of river drownings within the city
during a long period prior to tank installation.
The installation of new natatoriums is accom—
panied by facilities so constructed as to be useful
for general recreation during the entire year. On
such building has a clear floor space
60x100’ with a 22 foot ceiling. This
provides space for all kinds of fa
cilities — a full sized basketball

—C’"

.r ' ' i
.  l
0
, Q

In.

' i I

r9-

 

court, three practice courts crosswise, three volle
ball courts with easily. removable nets, comfort
able space for indoor ball and a portable stag
with seating capacity for about 1,000 people. I
will accommodate many other 'activities on th
recreation program. ,

The cost per tank attendant is_ about thre
cents.

Learning to Swim

“Yeah skinny, gotta wear a white cap!” w
the derisive cry which last summer caused man
Los Angeles, California youngsters to redoubl
their efforts to learn to swim. For the Pla
ground and Recreation Department made °t
ruling that boys or girls who could not swi
must wear white rubber caps in the city’s swi
ming pools to enable the guards to keep track 0
them easily. And no one wanted to linger 10
in the company of white cap wearers!

SIVIrlLlIING—THE EVER POPULAR SPORT 143

In order to make it possible for the largest
number of people to enjoy the use of the mu-
nicipal plunges last summer, low prices were put
into effect by the Los Angeles Playground and
Recreation Commission. Under the new rates
children under eleven years of age were admitted
Ito the city pools for five cents; children under
.nineteen for ten cents,and adults for twenty cents.
When city bathing suits were used five cents was
tdded to each rate. In spite of the reduction, the

epartment’s policy of admitting school children
free to the pools one morning each week was
maintained.

In the past eleven years the Seattle, Washing-
ton Park Board has taught many thousands of
lboys and girls the art of swimming. Climaxing
'In eight week period of free instruction course in
both swimming, diving and life saving, the
eleventh annual junior swimming carnival and
.econd annual junior life saving and diving meet
were held on successive Saturdays in August,
$931, as the crowning events of the public beach
Owim season. The Board was assisted by the
Seattle Post-Intelligencer, for many years a spon—
' or of free swimming classes and other activities
ior children. More than 2,000 bOys and girls, all
pproximat’ely seven or eight years of age, re-
ived dog paddle emblems from the Park Board.
he advanced classes included boys and girls
'trning to master the crawl and back strokes,

hile the side stroke was stressed for those en-
ting the life saving 'classes. Thus has been built
an interlocking system of free instruction
. rough which beginners are held in the classes
hrough several summers.
No requirements are made for entering the
’ vimming classes, but to take part in the junior
I fe saving classes it is necessary for a boy or
' 'rl to have the signed permission of parents; to
’ - able to swim 100 yards using two or more
‘ 'nds of strokes; to swim 50 feet on his back
ing feet only; to be able to make a plain front
. e,.and to be twelve years of age or older.

    
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
  

The Olympic Swimming Stadium
Much interest centers about the Olympic Pool
‘ hich has been constructed in Exposition Park,
I s Angeles, California, at a cost of $210,000,
l d which will accommodate 1,100 people at a
' . 1e. The pool will be 167’ long, 67’ wide and
it om 18 to 6’ deep. On the coldest Southern
- lifornia day its water can be heated to 82 de-
ees. Every eight hours the million gallons of
ter in it will have been completely replaced.

   
   

I

I
i

I

Lamps built into the tank’s submerged sides light
the floor, while overhead lights turn night into
day. On every side of the pool are grandstands
each with a capacity of 5,000 people.

Under the main grandstand there are dressing
rooms, and there will be all necessary conveni-
ences for bathing, such as showers, lockers and
towel rooms. On the second floor are three large
gymnasiums and recreation halls. This structure,
which will be the permanent pool building, will
be on the north side of the pool. On the south
side the grandstand will be of temporary con-
struction, and after the Games it will be cleared
away, uncovering a children’s swimming and
wading pool built in a half disc with a 60’ radius.
This will contain 250,000 gallons of water and
will be from 4%’ to 18” deep. At the pool’s
west end will be the judges’ building with open-
ings overlooking the water. On the other end
will be the diving tower. Its highest springboard
will be 32’ above the water.

' On April 27th the new swimming stadium was
formerly opened. Officials of city, county and
State and many local sports organizations and
similar groups took part at the opening on
Wednesday night which was followed by a
four—day program featuring national and sec-
tional swimming events and bringing together
a number of well known champions.

On May 28th all municipal swimming pools
in Los Angeles were opened. This season the
city will have greater opportunity than ever
for swimming, for sixteen pools will be in op-
eration, the largest number in the city’s his-
tory. A number of new plunges have been
made possible under the terms of the million
dollar improvement program. These will be
used for the first time this season.

Further evidence of the interest in swim-
ming in Los Angeles is found in the fact that
under the auspices of the Department of Play-
ground and Recreation has been held the first
annual Aquatics Conference in Southern Cali-
fornia. The meetings were sponsored by the
Public Beach Coordination Committee, the
Southern California Swimming Association,
the American Red Cross, and the Public
Schools of Los Angeles and Long Beach.

 

Nora: It is suggested that recreation officials, physical'
educators and others interested in teaching swimming,
seecure from the National Recreation Association a copy
of “Swimming Badge Tests for Boys and Girls” which
have been prepared by a national committee. Capies may
be secured at $.10 each.

h

 

The Value of Swimming

as 0 Recreational Activity

I By H NORM AN ENGELSEN type of service necessary to help people utilize to

Assistant Director, Life Saving Service
New York Chapter, American Red Cross

WIMMING as a recreational activity is far-

reaching in its values. It is far-reaching also

in that it is an activity which has been ac-
cepted, with few exceptions, by people of all
classes and all ages. At pools maintained by boys’
clubs, schools, semi-private and private agencies,
and at thousands of beaches and lakes scattered
throughout the country, swimming is exceed-
ingly popular.

Last year 3,313,911 people enjoyed the fun and
values of swimming in 310 indoor pools in 122
cities, while 17,651,165 people swam in 700 out-
door pools in 308 cities, all operated by recrea-
tion departments. Many new pools are in process
of construction to meet the ever increasing de-
mand for facilities, and leaders are being trained
and are more in demand every day to give the

144

the fullest extent the recreational possibilities of

this sport. I
Safety Measures

Unfortunately, the loss of life through water
accidents has been enormous amounting even now
to approximately 8,000 lives each year. It is grati-
fying to note, however, that only a small propor-
tion occurred at places which provide the few
precautions necessary to make the water safe.
There are fewer occurrences of the once mor
common experience of the family or group picni
party at the seashore or lake swimming withou
the protection of even the precautionary advic
of some member of the group who has bee1
trained in the procedures necessary to preven
water emergencies. Training in life saving make
a person safety conscious, and safety conscious
ness prevents accidents. The children and youn
people who have received this training will be th
parents of tomorrow with a greater appreciatio
of what water safety implies. The appreciati01
of swimming as a recreational activity, with th
resultant better understanding of the nature 0

 
  

‘qu . -

‘ on a hot summer’s day will dem-
recreational values of swimming!

 
 

SWIMMING AS A RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY 145

body a feeling of freshness and strength through bodily ac-
tivity and through the therapeutic effects of the water.

Swimming in the informal atmosphere of the public swim-
ming pool presents an opportunity for spontaneous self
direction. Social and industrial groups in many cities make a
practice of meeting at the pool regularly for an evening’s rec-
reation after the day’s work is over. The popular appeal of
the swimming pool is the result of up-to-date sanitation and
engineering practices, as well as of the general understanding
of the standards which have been developed through leader-
ship in modern swimming tests, stunts and games.

There is no other activity of its type which attracts a family
as a group or companions of both sexes. \Natch the groups at
the community pools and beaches or at the club. All care
seems temporarily thrust aside. Opportunities are offered for
periods of complete relaxation, for companionship and fun in
a wholesome atmosphere. A situation such as this will stimu-
late the desire to develop one’s ability to the point where even

greater enjoyment of these recreational opportunities may be

     
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   

. ater, is largely responsible for the proportion-
ely decreasing number of water accidents in
merica involving loss of life.
All who learn to swim—and many do learn be-
use of the urge of its popularity and the ac-
pted general opinion that their education has
en neglected if they do not—may be consid-
ed potentially safe, capable of taking care of
emselves in an emergency. They are no longer
e liability to the community they heretofore
ve been. Statistics compiled by one of the large
urance companies list the economic value of
individual’s life at different ages and the con-
uent economic loss to the community when a
e is lost. Many who go farther because of the
itial introduction to swimming as a recrea-
nal activity prepare to safeguard their rec-
tion and the participation of others by learn-
and teaching protective measures. This
petual cycle, continually expanding in its
pe, is bringing about safer participation by the
era] public who until recently hesitated to
e part.

The Values in Swimming
Swimming is considered the finest all around
' of exercise because it is an activity in which
ple of different ages can participate. It does
subject the body to rough usage by jarring or
en movements which may result in strain
; 1 other injuries. It develops long, flexible mus-
[1 body symmetry and organized vigor, bring-
" into play muscles not ordinarily used in every

activity. It can restore to the nervous tired

had. Each is guardian of the other’s welfare in a
circle of good fellowship. Many and varied are
the opportunities for keen enjoyment in the
laughter provoked by the antics of the swimmers
and by the friendly competition and in the thrill
of learning new strokes and stunts.

It requires courage to learn to swim. A be-
ginner experiences fear sensations and loss of
balance and direction. This is accompanied by
the unpleasant feeling of being shut in because
of choking sensations in making adjustments to
control breathing, to water in eyes and ears and
to pressure on the body. These sensations, as
well as traditional attitudes which have built fear
complexes, are problems which must first be over-
come and dispelled. Persistency in practice fol-
lows. An individual must gather and concentrate
his determination and power in overcoming, dur-
ing the elementary stages of learning, these
strange experiences which have previously been
surrounded by inhibitory thoughts. Once these
elementary problems are overcome the beginner is
convinced that the effort was worth while and an
achievement is recorded in his life. Here is a
medium for self—expression and a test of
character.

In a swimming pool individuals and groups are
subject to certain restrictions involving good citi-
zenship which are made to safeguard all. Rowdy-
ism, which is likely to endanger non-swimmers
and others, must be avoided. Such actions as
running, pushing and ducking others in the pool
have resulted in serious accidents.

act-

UJB-a-L malt m

by good leadership on the

146 SWIMMING AS A RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY

.v PWK

Sanitary habits are en-
couraged and their im-
portance impressed upon
the groups. An apprecia-
tion of the value, for

mutual benelit, of cooper-

ation in these practices
can be further enhanced

part of the management
in maintaining in all de-
partments a high standard
of cleanliness and service.
This feature is usually
well cared for by the De-
partment of Health Reg-
ulation and calls for co-
operation on the part of
the genera-1 public, the
leaders and the State.
Habits of cleanliness in
practice, developed in the

 

atmosphere 0f the SWIm" Courtesy Seattle, Washington, Department of Parks.

ming pool, contribute

greatly to the encourage-

ment of such practice in individual behavior.

Provided with the place to swim, the

necessary safeguards and a little encouragement
the average person requires little other stimulant.
No one, young or old, cares to be a bystander.
No}: is it necessary for the cripple to be a spec-
tator. Here is an activity in which he also can
take part and which he can enjoy with equal and
in many instances more skill than his companions.
His body iinds support in the water and does not
depend upon crippled limbs. Swimming has been
instrumental in the rehabilitation, mentally and
physically, of the handicapped individual. Simple
propelling movements are within his power and
examples of apparently re-creat’ed power de-
veloped through swimming are not few. There
are instances in which groups have won swim—
ming championships and have excelled in water
games. A boy with only one leg recently won the
high school back stroke championship in a city
having some of the linest swimmers in the coun-
try. One long distance swimmer has no legs;
another is blind and depends upon a bell in the
stern of a boat for guidance during races. The
Lighthouse, a school for the blind in New York
City, includes swimming in its recreation program.

Helping to Solve the Boy Problem
The community swimming pool is also an im-

Learning to swim is great fun, especially when you are
with a group of people who are learning the art together!

portant factor in solving the boy problem. Th
summer heat drives thousands of boys to indoo
and outdoor pools with the result that the dan
gerous practice of swimming from boat dock
and other places, once so popular, is graduall,
being supplanted by the advantages of these or
ganized pools. Interest in swimming created i

the summer among these groups can be develope
into a year-round feature far more attractive tha

street corner loaiing. Many of the boys attracte
to the swimming pools located in sections wher
vagrancy has been a problem, have deve10ped int
champion swimmers and are constantly inspirin
others by the examples they have set. They ar
becoming ambitious young men who to a gre
degree owe their development to their interest i
swimming and the leadership responsible. Georg
Koj ac, the present Olympic back stroke champio
began his swimming career in an East Side boy
club. His feats as a swimmer, his record as

scholar and good sportsman have been respons
ble for the setting up of ideals which his form
team mates and later members of the club a

now striving to uphold. He himself is a medic
student at one of the large universities. Many a
his team mates and others who followed a

(Continued on page 163)

for

By MINNETTE BRODKE SPECTOR

Supervisor of Industrial Recreation

Los Angeles, California

HE unlimited opportunity for year round

bathing afforded by Southern California’s

beaches, lakes and pools, has made swimming
one of the major sports promoted by the Indus-
trial Recreation Division of the Los Angeles
Playground and Recreation Department. There
are many, however, who cannot participate in this
healthful and enjoyable activity because of their
inability to swim. Observation at various beaches
has shown a great contrast between those swim-
mers who can really enjoy a swim out past the
breakers and the thousands who are limited to
bathing close to shore or who are afraid to ven-
ture into the water at all.

This has brought the definite need for a swim-
ming program which will make all bathers deep
water swimmers. Every bather should have some
swimming knowledge. Recognizing this, the
Industrial Recreation Division has organized Be-
ginners’ swimming classes through which every
foort is being made to give the pupils a thorough
grounding in breathing and weight distribution.
Many of the pupils, however, have wished to add
to their general knowledge of strokes and even-
tually become interested in the organization of
some sort of a club. This resulted in the Leaders’
Swimming Club whose purpose was the acquir-
ing of maximum water efficiency for each mem-
ber. Membership in the club is open to every
business girl and woman.

 

A Leoders’ Swimming Club

Business Girls and Women

‘—

’9‘. 1.! v. I
‘iitiolciih‘

F—‘

Ill/Ill!”

 

The program planned for the Leaders’ Swim-
ming Club provides for a series of graduated
tests which makes it possible to reach a new level
of swimming efiiciency every four or five weeks.
Through this means interest in stroke perfection
and increased endurance can be sustained over a
long period of time, and remarkable progress may
be made. Older women, who have taken no active
part' in sports activities for a number of years,
are usually able to swim in deep water within
two or three months, and Beginners become Life
Savers within a year. The health, safety and

recreational values of such a planned schedule f
activity are inestimable. I

Selecting Leaders

Girls and women passing the American Red
Cross Life Saving tests naturally become leaders
of groups, limited to ten in number. Since the
American Red Cross tests are identical with the
Beginners’, Swimmers’ and Life Saving Prep-
aration tests outlined for Club members, leaders
are well able to pass these tests. Leaders give
the Intermediate Swimmers’ and Advanced
Swimmers’ tests, and the passing of these tests
entitles each qualified member to wear the club
emblem. Life Saving and Master’s tests are given
by the instructor in charge. In addition to test
passing methods, leaders have been given a course
in methods of teaching so that they can assist the
instructor when the pupil enters the transitional
period from a Beginner to a deep water swimmer.
The leader’s responsibility carries the additional

interest of keeping her people encouraged and
progressive.

147

148 A LEADERS’ SWIMMING CLUB FOR BUSINESS GIRLS

Although the first and foremost aim of the
Leaders’ Swimming Club is efficiency in the
water, the club is also interested in making this
activity truly recreational. To this end swimming
play days and water volley ball tournaments are
held periodically. Excursions to the: beaches are
arranged at intervals so that each individual
learning to swim may be taught how to handle
herself in the surf, while those who have passed
the Swimmers’ test may swim in deep water,
under supervision. Advanced swimmers practice
long distance swimming on these trips. To make
these outings really social lunches are planned and
served by appointed committees for club members
and their escorts who join them in these beach
parties.

The Leaders’ Swimming Club developed as a
natural outgrowth of the swimming program of
the Industrial Recreation Division. At first only
Beginners’ classes were held, but later the need
for advanced swimming classes was evident, and
one night each week was set apart for this group,
with a monthly meeting to transact any club
business.

Life Saving courses were given at various
times, but this did not seem satisfactory as only
the more aggressive pupils continued in the other
two classes, and as a result those who passed the
Life Saving test were without a higher goal. The
Leaders’ Swimming Club seemed to supply this
need. When one test is passed, another is within
reach; and with a leader assistant to give individ-
ual help while the instructor is engaged in group
instruction, there is little danger of Beginners be-
coming discouraged. Club members develop great
interest in furthering the swimming program and
in recruiting Beginners among their friends and
acquaintances who need the recreational activity
which swimming provides.

The Leaders’ Swimming Club progresses rap—
idly, for as each group passes the Life Saving
test, additional Leaders are available for the new
recruits of the constantly changing Beginners’
classes. The club builds up from within itself, as
every follower eventually becomes a leader. in
some capacity. A valuable service is being per-
formed by the club, and results have shown the

necessity for an organization of this type.

*****

Rules and Regulations

The club is operated under the following rules
and regulations:

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

AIM
To develop leadership and further the swim-

ming program.
MEMBERSHIP
Open to any business woman sincerely wishing
to secure for herself and others the maxi-
mum of water efficiency.

ORGANIZATION
Groups to be formed of not more than ten
persons
Group leader who shall—
Record the attendance of the group
Stimulate interest, encourage and aid all
-members in passing tests
With the assistance of the instructor when
necessary, to pass and record all tests
To contribute in any manner possible to the
fullest development of the Club
DUES

There shall be no dues.
Each girl shall pay her own admission to the

pooL
Each girl shall pay for her own emblems, if
such are not free.

MEETINGS
All meetings shall be held at 315 Venice Blvd.,

unless otherwise arranged.

The Club shall swim every Thursday between
the hours of 5 :00 RM. and 8 :00 RM.

A social meeting shall be held the first Thurs-
day of every month at 8:00 P.M., in addi-
tion to the swimming, for the purpose of dis-
cussing any problems arising among the
leaders, and for presentation of emblems.

TESTS TO BE PASSED IN PROGRESSION
Beginner’s Test:
Jump into water over own depth,,swim :25
ft., make a sharp turn and return 25 ft.
Swimmer’s Test:
One standing dive
Swim 100 yards, using two or more stroke
Swim 50 ft. on back, using legs only,
float
Recover object in 6 or 8 ft. of water, b
means of surface diving
Witness the Demonstration of Resuscitatiol
Intermediate Swimmer’s Test:
'100 ft. Crawl
100 ft. Racer’s Back
30 sec. treading water
25 ft. under water

Life Saving Preparation Test:
(Continued on page 163)

a:
:3

 

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Sort-ice

 

Recreation in the National Forests

of Southern California

By MARIE F. HEISLEY
Forest Service U. S. Department of Agriculture

HE great Olympic hegira to sunny south-
Tern California will soon begin and Los An-

geles will become the mecca not only of
those interested in the Olympic Games, but of
recreation leaders from all parts of the world
who will attend the International Recreation
Congress July 23:29th. Situated in the heart
of a great recreation region, Los Angeles is
particularly fitted to be a host to recreationists,
and it offers exceptional Opportunities to learn
at first hand how national forests and national
forest recreation are handled.

The city is a gateway to four National For-
ests in Southern California. The Santa Bar-

bara National Forest lies to the north, the
Angeles on the north and east, the San Ber-
nardino on the east and south and the Cleve-
land Forest further south. Recreation plays
an important part in the administration of all
four of these forests and any one of them
would be of interest to those attending the
Recreation Congress.

The Angeles National Forest

The Angeles National Forest, which has its
headquarters in Los Angeles, is perhaps the
most accessible to that city. It covers almost
650,000 acres in the Sierra Madre Mountains.
Its forested and Chaparral-covered slopes are
easy of access and the Forest offers numerous
delightful opportunities for motOring, hiking,
camping, picknicking and other forms of out--

149

150 RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS

door activity. For the ac-

vacationists, as well as to
lessen the fire hazard, the
Forest Service has established

sites. In fact, the Angeles

Forest has more public campgrounds than
any other of Uncle Sam’s National Forests.
In cooperation with the County and public
organizations many of the campgrounds on the
Angeles have been improved with fireplaces,

water supplies and sanitary conveniences. At-

Big Pines Park, which is in the northeastern
part of the Angeles Forest and which extends
into the San Bernardino Forest on the east,
Los Angeles County is developing one of the
finest mountain recreation grounds in America.
This area is about 100 miles distant from the
city and would make an interesting side trip.

Another enjoyable side trip into the Angeles
National Forest may be taken by automobile
over the Mount Wilson toll road to the sum-
mit of the mountain world famous as the site
of the Mount Wilson Observatory. This ob-
servatory is equipped with a 100-inch reflect-
ing telescope, the largest of its kind in the
world. From Mt. Wilson, one may obtain one
of the finest panoramic views in southern Cal-
fornia, embracing rugged mountains, cities,
orange groves, valley‘and farm lands, and the
distant Pacific Ocean. There are, of course,
many other points of interest in the Angeles
National Forest. Information regarding them
may be obtained from the Office of the Forest
Supervisor in the Federal Building, Los An—

geles, or at the branch office in the Federal
Building, at Pasadena.

An Important Mountain Playground

Adjoining the eastern boundary of the An-
geles Forest is the San Bernardino National
Forest. Because of its proximity to the large
population in the contiguous lowlands and its
scenic attractions it has become an important
mountain playground. Among its notable
features are the high mountain masses of the
San Gorgonio range, where elevations vary
from 7,000 feet to 11,485 feet at the summit of
Old Greyback, the highest peak in southern
California. The Arrowhead Lake and Big
Bear Lake areas, within the Forest, are popu-

California has many attractions to
commodation of tourists and one? those attending the Interna- for summer outings and win-
tionol Recreation Congress. Not
the least of these are the national
forests, onhich there are eighteen. _ .
Four of them, in Southern Cali- 3515 15 a new; hlgh‘gear, 5111"

more than 250 free public fornia, may be easily reached by faced highway known as the
camp grounds on desirable COHQTGSS dalegates 300' VISIEO'S- “Rim of the World Drive,”

   
   
    
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
  

lar recreation grounds, both

ter sports. In the heart of the
San Bernardino National For-

which traverses the pictur-
esque timbered country of the San Jacinto
Mountains. In addition to several other inter—
esting and enjoyable drives over good roads,
the San Bernardino Forest affords facilities
for a number of horseback and hiking trips in
rugged and scenic regions. To add to the com-
fort and convenience of forest visitors the
Forest Service has provided 53 free forest
camps. Many of these are equipped with fire-
places, water systems and sanitary conven—
iences, while others are being improved as fast
as funds permit. The office of the SuperviSOr
of the San Bernardino Forest is located in the
Federal Building, San Bernardino.

The Santa Barbara National Forests

Northwest of the Angeles Forest and ad-
joining it lies the southern portion of the Santa
Barbara National Forest, also within easy
driving distance of Los Angeles. This Forest
contains many attractive recreational areas
and in the region are to be found any number
of interesting spots closely linked with the
early history and development of southern Cal-
ifornia. The Coast Highway from San Fran-
cisco to Los Angeles passes along the entire
western and southern boundaries of the Santa
Barbara National Forest. The road was once
known as “El Camino Real,” or the King’s
Highway, and over it the old Spanish padres
made their journeys from mission to mission.
Probably the best known of these missions is
the one from which the city of Santa Barbar
takes its name. Enjoyable motor trips can b
made into many of the canyons, valleys an
mountains of this forest. Back country regions
in the mountains inaccesible to motorists may
be penetrated by hikers or by camping partie
equipped with pack outfits. There are nearly
two hundred free forest campgrounds on thi
Forest, more than on any other National For-
est except the Angeles. Most of them ar
equipped with fireplaces, water supplies and

sanitary conveniences. The headquarters 0
this Forest are in the Federal Building a
Santa Barbara.

California’s Southernmost National Forest

The Cleveland is the southernmost of Cali-
fornia’s National Forests and extends from the
Santa Ana River in a broken line to within five
miles of the Mexican border. Since its north-
ern part lies within a fifty mile radius of Los
Angeles, it is reached by an easy drive from
that city. It is also within a few hours drive
of the Imperial Valley and is adjacent to the
thickly settled coast region. Its mountain for-
ests of pine, incense cedar, spruce and black'
oak, together with the live-oak-shaded can-
yons, lakes, streams, and winding trails make
it an interesting country for the recreationist,
motorist, camper, fisherman or hiker. In this
Forest the Secretary of
Agriculture has desig-
nated 11,495 acres of
pine and oak clad lands
in the Laguna Moun-
tains overlooking the Colorado
Desert, as the Laguna Recrea-
tion Area. Although a part of
this area has been divided into
summer home sites, a number of
public camp grounds have been
established. Through the coop-
eration of the Automobile Club
of Southern California, these
grounds have been provided
with tables, benches, fireplaces,
water supply, and sanitary con-
veniences. Three resorts within
the area provide accommoda-
tions for those visitors who do
not wish to camp out. In addi-
tion to the facilities of the La-
guna region, five special camp
grounds, accessible by automo-
bile have been established in the i ‘

 

. Court
I headquarters of this Forest are

to be found in the Federal Building at San Diego.

Many visitors will find the National Forests
of Southern California different from other
I forests they have known. Bordering on arid
and desert country, these four national forests
contain large areas of Chaparral or brush lands,
primarily important for watershed protection.
Heavy stands of timber are found only at the
higher elevations. In driving through the for-
ests one may pass successive types of vegeta-

There are campers of all ages to

be Found in our national parks.

0!

Cleveland National Forest. The ‘ m. U 5, pom; m'ce'

RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS 151

tive cover, from desert to alpine, within a few
hours’ time.

These are only four of California’s far-flung
National Forests. There are eighteen in all,
covering an area of some nineteen million
acres of Government land, and varying widely
in type. They include vast stretches of timber
and the important watersheds in the Sierra
Nevada and Coast Ranges. They contain more
than a hundred billion board feet of standing
timber including such important commercial
species as ponderosa pine, sugar pine, Jeffrey
pine, redwood, white fir, Douglas fir, red fir,
and incense cedar. They are of vital impor—
tance for watershed protection. The area cov-
ered by California’s National For-
ests embraces most of the valuable
water power sites of the State, and
more than two-thirds of the State’s
total acreage under irrigation is de-

 

 

pendent upon National Forest lands for its
supply of water. Over 120 cities, towns, and
settlements of California, including Los An-
geles, San Diego, Santa Barbara, Oakland, and
Berkeley, with a total p0pulation of over
3,000,000 people, draw their water supply from
the National Forests. The Federal Govern-
ment is protecting and managing these Forests
in such a way that they not only will be a con-

(Continued on page 164)

 

Walks Along Our Highways

ECREATION leaders have an opportunity to
R help the cause of both safety and outdoor
recreation by lending support to the move-
ment for pedestrian paths along the highways.
During recent years millions of dollars have been
spent annually for the construction of motor
highways in the United States and many country
roads have been transformed into speedways for
motor vehicles. It is rather surprising that along
with the enormous expenditures for highways,
practically no funds have been spent in provid—
ing footpaths or sidewalks on which the pedes-
trians who have been forced off the roads may
walk in safety.

The necessity for affording protection to the
pedestrian has recently been
impressed upon thinking peo-
ple by the appalling increase

along the highways. Along
most improved roads outside
our towns and cities there is
no suitable place for walking
other than on the roadway.
This lack of paths accounts
for a large share of the pedes-
trian deaths caused by the
automobile, which in 1931
reached the appalling total of 14,500.

Credit for initiating the movement for high-
way sidewalks belongs primarily to Mr. George
C. Warren of Boston, who urged that the Amer—
ican Society of Municipal Engineers sponsor the
project. As Chairman of its Highways Sidewalks
Committee, Mr. Warren has during the past two
or three years directed a publicity and legislative
campaign to the end that walkways be provided
along state and county roads where they are
needed.

The movement has received the hearty com—
mendation of many newspapers, individuals and
organizations, among them the National Safety
Council and the National Recreation Association.
Among the recommendations submitted to the
President’s Conference on Home Building and
Ownership was the following:

152

In l93l automobile accidents in this

, , . country caused the deaths of 34,1100
m aCCIdentS to People Walklng persons, and non-fatal iniuries to

nearly l,000,000. Pedestrians killed primarily as a safety measur

numbered about I4,500; iniured non- to protect children going t
fatally, more than 297,000. Of those

killed more than l,500 were under
the age of a; 3,800 were between
the ages of 5 and |4; 5,270 were town and back. Nevertheles
between l5 and 54 years old, while they afford additional poss'
3,840 were older than 55.
—From Tremendous Trifles.

 

   
   
   
    
     
  
 
   
   
 
  

“That Federal appropriations for Federal 0
Federal aid roads be increased to provide fo
footways, maintenance and landscaping; that lik
action be secured in state legislation with refer
ence to state, county and township roads.”

Largely as a result of the activity of the Amer
ican Society of Municipal Engineers sidewalk
have already been constructed along highways i
several states. Legislation has been passed i
Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey au
thorizing the proper authorities to build sidewalk
along highways and steps have been taken t
secure similar laws in other states. Progress ha
also been noted in securing provision for pedes
trians along county roads, notably in Wayn
County, Michigan, and in S
John the Baptist Parish, Lou
isiana.

Sidewalks are being Urge

bilities for usefulness. Hi
ing has‘lost much of its fo
mer popularity among larg
numbers of people due to the hazards of wal
ing along paved highways and the increasing di
ficulty of finding other areas where the sport ma
be enjoyed. If the proposed sidewalks—or foo
paths as they might better be called away fro
the cities—are merely narrow strips of hard su
faced pavement bordering or closely parallelin
the roadway, they will offer little inducement f
walkers even though they do afford safety f
people who are obliged to journey on foot. I
however, these paths are built in a more natura
istic manner, winding where the terrain permit
following natural contours and utilizing wha
ever of interest the landscape may provide, it
inevitable that they will not only make Walki
safer and more pleasant for people living a101
the highways but will do much to bring back't
exercise and joy of hiking.

Play — A Universal Language

HE \Vorld at Play” has
long been a familiar and
popular heading to read-
rs of “Recreation.” This
pic will be presented to
h em at first hand, both
i rough addresses and
rough informal discussions
ith their colleagues from

   
 
 
 
 
  

Plans for the International Recrea-
tion Congress are being rapidly
completed. The response from for-
eign countries has exceeded all
expectations. Many interesting
personalities from other lands will

take part in the Congress program.

other forms of play tradition
that have grown up wherever
boys and a ball get together.
The great hope of recreationists
is to train a generation that
will have bodies beautifully
and finely coordinated, alert
minds, a tradition of good
sportsmanship, and a wealth

reign lands, when they at-

nd the First International Recreation Con—
ess. Twenty-nine countries are now repre-
nted on the Advisory Committee for the Con—
ess and seventy-five foreign delegates have
gistered. Many more have expressed their
tention of coming to the Congress if possible.
he program will give a survey of world—wide
velopments and plans for playgrounds,
rks, athletics, camping, community arts and
any other topics in the field of leisure time.
“The nations are trying to find a common
ound of understanding on the reduction of
aments and on problems of international
arations,” says a recent article in The Fore-
: Magazine. “Let’s look ahead to Los An-
les next summer to find a brighter assurance
international cooperation. Happy results
not fail to come from another world con-
nee—the first of its kind, which will meet
the California city, July 25-29. For this is
International Recreation Congress, and so
its common ground of understanding a1-
dy established.

‘Play is a universal language. All peoples
inctively love to sing and dance and act.
laughter of children at play is the same
every land. So are the shouts and enthu-
.m of boys on a recreation field—whether
are playing American baseball or British
ket, Spanish pclcta Or any of the many

    
 
       
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

l

of skills and interests in the
creative arts and in nature lore. Better human
material will thus be the contribution that the
recreation and public playgrounds movement
can make toward helping the world solve its
difficulties of government and finance.”

You have heard of those young “wandering
birds,” the German \Vandervogel, who set
forth with a knapsack and a song for a holiday
on the open road. A woman member of the
German Reichstag, internationally known for
her work in politics, education and child wel-
fare, will tell the Congress about this youth-
hiking movement in Germany, and will speak
also on “Recreation and Unemployment.” She
is Frau Elsa Matz, Ph. D., head-mistress of
the \Vestendschule, the largest high school for
girls in Charlottenburg, Berlin. Dr. Mata has
a thorough knowledge of the entire system of
German education, both in the schools and
through physical and education work. She is
the sole woman member of the Board of the
German Central Committee of Athletics, is
President of the \Vomen’s Committee of that
body, and up to 1929 was head of a seminary
for teachers of gymnastics and athletics.

From her experience in presiding over school
examinations of about 150 different types, Dr.
Mata can give detailed information on the
qualifications required in Germany for teach-
ers of athletics, swimming, kindergartens and

153

 

154 PLA Y—A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

youth homes, as well as for elemen-
tary and secondary teachers. She has
represented the German Central Gov-
ernment for the child welfare activi-
ties of the Social Commission of the
League of Nations since 1927, and
also has taken an -‘ *-
active part in the
work of the Inter-
national Woman
Suffrage Alliance.
Two very inter-
esting personalities,
leaders in the
sports movements
of Great Britain,
who will address
the Congress, are
Sir Harold Bow-
den, Bart., Chair- Brazil
man of the British
Olympic Association, and Noel Cur-
tis-Bennett, Treasurer of the National
Playing Fields Association. Both are
keen sportsmen, and have worked ac-
tively for their hobby—more play
opportunities for
the youth of Brit-
ain.
Sir Harold has
chosen as his topic,
“The Use and
Abuse of Leisure.”
It is expected that
the relation of rec-
reation to industry
will have some
mention in his talk,
since he is a vice-
president of the
Federation of Brit-
ish Industries and is chairman and
managing director of the Raleigh
Cycle Company, Ltd., and the Stur-
mey-Archer Gears, Ltd. of Notting-
ham, which employ about 3,500 people.
Noel Curtis-Bennett is described by
C. Patrick Thompson in a recent ar-
ticle in the New York Herald-Trib—
une Sunday Magazine as an “idealist
and practical organizer who has taught
a nation to play.” His job is that of
a Treasury ofiicial, but he is connected
with practically every sports organi-
zation of importance in England, and
because of his organizing ability and
knowledge of men in the mass was
appointed one of the three key organ-
izers at general headquarters during
the general mine strike of 1926. At
that time he demonstrated the value
of recreation in promoting morale and

Germany

 

Dr. Renato Pacheco

 

contentment. It was Mr. Curtis-Ben-
nett who suggested the recent call to
youth for service broadcast by the
Prince of Wales from Albert Hall,
London. The Prince made a stirring
appeal to the youth of the country to
help in overcoming
the economic trou-
bles of the day by
giving personal ef-
fort, in the places
where they live, to
the service of their
fellow men. This
was followed by a
specific appeal
from the Duke of
York, President of
the National Play—
ing Fields Associa-
tion, for volunteer
leadership at recreation centers, and
for gifts of land for play purposes.

The Congress will 'hear Mr. Curtis-
Bennett on the topic, “The Contribu-
tion of Sport and Recreation to Brit-
ish Life and Char—
acter.” He is said
to be at his best
when talking about
the idealistic pur-
poses in c00pera—
tive activities and
spreading the gos-
pel of the sporting
spirit. “When he
gets going in these
fields his eyes

Dr. Elsa Mat; glow, his voice Sir Harold Bowden’ Bart. a place in the e
England

takes on an impas-
sioned note and he
expresses himself like a poet,” says
Mr. Thompson.
New members who have been ad—

 

Dr. Frederic Michael
de Molnar, Hungary

ded to the International Advisory
Committee of the Congress include
Colonel Dr. Meriggio Serrati, of the

 

Senor Carlos Contreras

 

    
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

Italian N avy; Baron Takeru Yama-
kawa, Chief of the Physical Educa-
tion Department of the Educational
Department of the Japanese Govern-
ment; Dr. Renato Pacheco, President
of the Federation of Sports in Brazil,
' and Senor Carlos
Contreras, Presi
dent of the Nation
a1 Association fo
Planning of th
Mexican Republic
Senor Contreras
who is a graduat
of the School 0
Architecture of Co
lumbia University
New Yo rk, ha
been active in cit
planning, housin
and playgroun
and recreation deveIOpments since hi
return to Mexico. He was a forme
President of Planning in the Nationa
University of Mexico and former hea
of the Planning Commission in th
Ministry of Com
munications an
Public Works 0
the Mexican Go
ernment. Baro
Yamakawa is

baseball and tenn
enthusiast, and

Mexico

his influence th
horsemanship a
marksmanship ha

tra-curricular a
tivities of the I
perial University of which he is
graduate. Through the Departm
of Physical Education he is promoti
many phases of the general recreati
program.

“The Contribution of Scouting
Recreation in Europe and other pa
of the World” will be the t0pic of
Frederic Michael de Molnar of H11
gary, who will bring to the Congr
a message from Lord Baden P0well
London, Chief Scout and founder
the movement. Dr. de Molnar star
the first training courses for Sc
leaders in 1924 at Hedervar, Hunga
He has visited the Scouting headqu
ters and camps of most of the co
tries of Europe and will be responsi

for the international affairs of

World Jamboree in 1933. He has b
(Continued on page 166)

Some Events at the

International Recreation Congress

July 23--29
1932

HE first of a series of special programs to be
put on in connection with the International
Recreation Congress will take place on the
vening of the first day- of the Congress, Satur-
ay, July 23rd, when the annual Pool Pageant of
0s Angeles playground children will be pre-
nt’ed in the big new Los Angeles Olympic
Swimming Stadium in Olympic Park. Allegorical
quences of the pageant will feature children
u essed as frogs, salamanders, ducks and other
tater creatures, cavorting in the lighted waters
f the big pool. A carnival of water sports to be
Included in the pageant will present numerous
wimming and diving stunts, making use of the
lfigh diving platforms and other special equip-
ent of the pool.
Seating facilities for ten thousand persons at
1e big new stadium will enable the pageant to be
flewed by the general public as well as by dele-
gates to the Congress. The swimming stadium,
Ihich was recently completed and dedicated by
¢e Los Angeles Playground and Recreation De-
‘ rtment, and which is to be the scene of the
Olympic Games aquatic events, is one of the
'orld’s greatest centers for competitive water
*orts, and the Pool Pageant will demonstrate its
I. mique facilities and uses.
Preceding the pageant, welcoming ceremonies
ior delegates to the International Recreation Con-
tress will take place at the stadium. Governor

 

Rolph of the State of California will offer the of-
ficial welcome and Count de Baillet Latour, Presi-
dent of the International Olympic Committee and
member of the International Advisory Commit-
tee of the Recreation Congress, will respond for
the International delegates.

Details for the opening ceremonies and the
Pool Pageant are being worked out under the
direction of Superintendent Raymond E. Hoyt of
the Los Angeles Playground and Recreation De-
partment, Chairman of the local organizing com-
mittee for the International Congress.

The International Play Festival

Demonstrating the “unity of mankind through
the medium of leisure time activity,” a colorful
and spectacular International Play Festival will
form one of the most interesting events to be
held at the Congress. It will take place on the
evening of July 27th in the huge Pasadena Rose
Bowl, scene of East versus West football games
played annually in connection with the Pasadena
Tournament of Roses.

\Vhile plans for the festival have not yet been
completed, tentative arrangements indicate an un-
usually fine demonstration, according to program
details now being worked out by a committee
headed by C. L. Glenn, Director of the Physical
Education Department of the Los Angeles city
schools. Mr. Glenn is being aided by Superin-

155

 

Pr-—A ——

156 EVENTS AT THE INTERNATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

tendent Scott of the Pasadena Park Department
and Mrs. Minnette B. Spector, Supervisor of In-
dustrial Recreation, Los Angeles Playground and
Recreation Department.

As the Los Angeles metropolitan area, because
of its cosmopolitan nature, offers many well or-
ganized national groups, this festival will pro-
vide an excellent opportunity for demonstrating
international games, dances and music, authenti-
cally presented by people familiar with these ac-
tivities since their childhood. Pageantry will in-
troduce the festival, with playground children
portraying the gathering of all nations for a
friendly evening of play. Groups of adults drawn
from playgrounds of Southern California com-
munities will then put on their own national
dances, sing their native songs and play native
games.

According to plans of the organizing commit-
tee, a total of five hundred people are expected to
appear in the big demonstration, with most of
the leading nations of the world represented. The
Pasadena Rose Bowl has a seating capacity of
80,000 persons, making it possible for the spec-
tacle to be viewed by the general public as well as
delegates to the International Recreation Congress.

Aiding the committee in preparations for the
event is the City of Pasadena, which is sponsor-
ing the festival as a community project, and no
effort is being spared to make this demonstration
one of the most interesting of the forthcoming
Congress.

The International Music Festival

Another event planned for the enjoyment of
the delegates will be the International Music Fes-
tival to be held in the famous Hollywood Bowl on
the evening of July 24th. The festival will be the
combined expression of the musical talent of
Southern California communities as developed
among the groups of this section’s various play-
grounds and recreation centers. Arrangements
for the event, as now being completed by John W.
Norviel, Supervisor of Recreation for the City of
Glendale, forecast a splendid musical program
that will exemplify the highest standards of com-
munity music.

The program will open with a procession of
the flags of all nations, typifying the international
character of the forthcoming Recreation Con-
gress. As the first musical event on the program,
a concert will be presented by the massed bands
of Southern California communities, under the
direction of Herbert L. Clark of the Long Beach

I

W

   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
   
   

municipal band. The Long Beach Symphon
Chorus will next be heard, accompanied by th
Glendale Civic Orchestra augmented by musician.
of other civic orchestras. Another outstandin
feature of the program will be the singing o
spirituals by a Negro chorus of one hundre
drawn from the Ross Snyder Playground of L0
Angeles.

The location of the festival in the picturesqu
Hollywood Bowl will provide an opportunity fo
Congress delegates to enjoy an evening in one o
the world’s best known centers of civic music.
The huge amphitheater, in the heart of the Holly
wood foothills, is nearly perfect in its acoustics,
making it ideal for a faithful portrayal of South
ern California’s musical development.

Tours at the Congress

Southern California at its scenic semi-tropical
best will be unfolded before the eyes of delegate
through the medium of special tours being ar
ranged for the benefit of visitors by loca
committees.

The first of these tours will take place 0
Tuesday, July 26, under the direction of Mr.
John C. Henderson of the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department. Points of
interest that will be visited on this tour will in-
clude many of the picturesque attractions in th
immediate vicinity of Los Angeles. The trip wil
begin at the old Mexican Plaza, the hub aroun
which the social life of Spanish Los Angeles re
volved in the early days of the city. The church
of Nuestra Senora 1a Reina de Los Angeles
from which the city took its name, will next b
seen. The tour will then proceed through beau-
tiful Elysian, Barnsdall, and Griffith Parks, pas
the famous Greek Theater, and on through the
heart of Hollywood.

Passing the homes of motion picture stars i
Beverly Hills, the tour will be halted at the Uni
versity of California at Los Angeles for lunch.
From this point the trip will proceed past th
Uplifters’ Club, where many famous personage
play polo, then to the magnificent Bernheime
Gardens fronting on the ocean at the Sant
Monica Palisades. From this point the tour wil
proceed along the beach front and return to L0
Angeles. A stop at either the Fox or Metro
Goldwyn-Mayer motion picture studios is to b
arranged on the return drive, and, if time per-
mits, the tour will visit the University of South

(Continued on page 166)

RECREATION

The World at Play is published each month to keep you in
touch with new developments everywhere. It is o coopera-i
tive undertaking. "Recreation" urges all its readers to send in

items regarding recreational happenings in their communities.

 

l ON April lst stu-

l Hiking for a dents of Southeast-
Degreel ern University,
\Vashington, D. C.,

began hiking toward their degrees under a
,1 ovel extra-curricular physical education ac-
vity. This is believed to be the first accred—
1' ed college degree in hiking. In addition to
e award of letters and a silver cup for pro-
ciency in the subject, an extra credit in phy-
'cal education is offered. The course will not,
l owever, be a prerequisite to graduation but
ill be elective. It will include theory as well'

  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
      
  
  
    
 
  

ents of the University the students of the
l ourse must walk a total distance of 200 miles
l tween April lst and June lst. A number of
‘ easured courses are suggested and pedo-
_ eters will be used on unknown distances.
7alking to school or office will be credited

iles.

. More Playgrounds

. for Safety Michigans lack of

. ate’s increased crime record and child traffic
aths, H. 0. Rounds, Safety and Traffic Di-

. s issued a plea to every city, town and vil-

’ ildren have been killed in Michigan traffic

(in

l.

1
l
l

‘5 practice in walking, and under the require-"

rovided the distance covered is at least twd‘

POINTING to

playgrounds as a ma-
jor factor in the

ctor of the Automobile Club of Michigan,

e to provide places where children may
. 1y. He called attention to the fact that 2,500

the last five years. “The economic loss due
- the vehicular fatalities in Michigan alone
enormous. If a life were valued at only

.000 this loss would total $40,540,000 for the

World “at Play

last five years. Modern urban life, congested
population, heavy vehicular traffic and our
modern mode of living, have changed our child-
hood conceptions of recreation. It is now neces-
sary for every municipality to give serious
consideration to providing playgrounds where
children may play safely.”

THERE has been a

greatly increased em-
phasis on handcraft
as a part of the play-
ground program in Macon, Georgia. This was
due partly to the desire of many of the chil-
dren and their parents to make articles that
could be used for Christmas gifts. Many of
the mothers of the children borrowed the pat-
terns from the Department and learned for the.
first time that with the use of vinegar bottles
and other household articles, which they had
previously thrown away, they could make at-
tractive vases and decorative articles. One
boy who was causing his teacher much con-
cern became so interested in handcraft that he
started a small shOp where he made Christmas
presents and sold them. The handcraft pro-
gram in Macon was started with $25 worth of

'material bought at a bankrupt sale.

Handcraft in
Macon, Georgia

ACCORDING to
the report of “Muni-
cipal Activities,
1931” the day by day
count of boys, girls, young men and young
women using the facilities of the Public Rec-

reation Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio, to-

taled 1,171,961. This is an increase of 122,187
(Continued on page 159)

Playground Attendance
in Cincinnati

157

158 ALBERT THOMAS

 

Read Special Offer!

CODEBALL

ON THE GREEN
The game with a kick in it

Show this ad to a responsible Sport-
ing Goods Dealer in your locality and 6
tell him to write us at once for in-
formation as to how we will" enable
him to donate a Codeball on the
Green set to you gratis in behalf of
your community.

 

 

Regulation course equipment consisting of

14 durable, high-class Metallic Bowls, l4
poles and pennants, 28 Kickoffs. Oflicial
Rules, and one dozen Ollicial Balls.

Sanction and adopted by the A. A. U.,
as National Sports, 1929.

Detailed information and course
charts cheerfully sent on request.

Codeball Company of America

11 So. LaSalle Street Chicago, Ill.

 

Albert Thomas

    
 
   
  
  
  
  

T is with deep, regret that the Congress Commi
I tee announces the death of Albert Thoma

member of the International Advisory Co
mittee from France. Mr. Thomas, who di
suddenly in Paris on May 7th, was the Direct
of the International Labor thce of the Lea
of Nations and Chairman of the National Co
mittee on Leisure of France.

For many years Mr. Thomas has shown a de
interest in recreation problems. As Mayor -
Champigny and later as a member of the Cha
ber of Deputies, he worked for the suppression -
fortifications and setting up open spaces arou
Paris for the recreation of the people. Lat
as an official of the League of Nations he c0
cerned himself with the question of worke
leisure and under his direction the Internation
Labor Office made a notable contribution to
study of the leisure time problem.

Mr. Thomas has been deeply interested in
International Recreation Congress and in spi
of his many responsibilities took time to adv'
the Committee on ways and means of increasi
European interest in the Congress. He hims
was planning to head a delegation to come
America to attend the Congress and was sche
uled to make one of the principal addresses.

The world recreation movement has lost
ardent worker in the passing of Albert Thom a;

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY

 

Send for our new
]] “Playground” Catalog

for your
. PARKS and

PLAYGROUNDS

ECONOMIC conditions have impressed upon

everyone the need of prOper buying of
Playground Equipment. Equipment that will
fill the needs of modern youth and still hold
up under the strain of heavy use. thus re-
ducing replacements and repairs.

This does not necessarily mean that Play-
ground Equipment must be expensive to be
good. The most important factor is that this
equipment be manufactured by a firm of long
standing—and one with a reputation of mak-
ing quality a foremost feature of importance.
Go through our catalog. You will find
Playground Devices to meet your very needs.
New designs—new equipment—new prices!

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.

ANDERSON, INDIANA

over the attendance record of 1930. The total
number of boys and girls registered at the
various play centers was 31,834, an increase of
5,610 over the 1930 ngures. Another interest-
ing development was the increase in the num-
ber of families coming to the playgrounds. In
the evening hours in particular it was not an
unusual sight to find mothers, fathers and chil-
dren going to the playgrounds as spectators or
participants. The per capita cost for public
recreation in 1931 was 35 cents.

A New Course in Sports Program Manage-
ment—Instruction in the principles of organ-
izing a comprehensive athletic program for
mines, factories and communities as a whole
is the purpose of a two term elective course
to be introduced next year by the Michigan
College of Mining and Technology at Hought-
on, Michigan. The course, which will be known
ts “Industrial and Recreational Athletics,” will
be open to students who have completed two
years of physical training or the hrst two
years of the four year military engineering
work offered in the Michigan Technical Re-
serve OHicers Training Corp Unit.

SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather. Metal. Celluloid. Wood Carving. Batik.
Rape and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts
for the Educational. Recreational and Occupational

Fields.
HAN DICRAFT MANUAL

300 Projects. 400 Illustrations
Price $1.00 Paper, $2.00 Cloth
Sent on Approval Price List on Request

MT SPECIA LTI E
_ messawa’gusa

COLORADO smxataaaaa

 

 

Build it Yourself

if you have a home Workshop. here'a hat the lat-(ulna you need.

lune of Popular Homecraft la crammed

with lane for snaking auch beautiful and nae-
fnl Im an: Hook Gaaea Chlna Clo-eta.
Bird Hoqu Ship nod-I. Itmuc Walrus-e.
Lampe. Children a Playthinn. Tea Tablea.
Ant nee. Candle Sticka etc. Gov-re wood-
work at. metal-workina'Jathe work. leather
aft. to". r. bran and pewter week.
xplalna nae ans care of toole. A real "How
4o-do-it" mull“. Score- of larl’e clear
drawing: make even atop elmple as A BC.

SIX MONTHS' TRIAL $1.00

Send 81.00.:oda: for trial 0 monthe' aub-
acrtptlon. one: back If not dellqhted.

--- POPULAR HOMECIM!‘
787 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago. Il-

 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  

 
     

 

 

159

- --- 1,-5 «c»

160 IS PLAY VANISHING FROM PLAYGROUNDS?

E

     
    

la.
71
t

‘

’ Rx! - . r
a. , o ‘ -
W . “osmiu‘ _4-.— -&z . Mum»:

. . . laygrounds

can’t afford dust
this year . . . . .

 

 

 

I   5;?

Both economy and health
urge this protection!

PROTECTION of children against the dirt and
dangers of dust! Protection of the playing
surfaces against disintegration which is the cause of
dust! Both kinds of protection are assured with the

use of Solvay Calcium Chloride on gravel and earth
surfaces.

Playgrounds everywhere find Solvay treatment the
ideal way to end the dust nuisance. Clean and white,
it does not track or stain. It is easy to apply and
economical to use. And in addition to keeping down

dust, it actually kills harmful germs that live and
breed in dust.

Let Solvay Calcium Chloride help you lower the cost

of keeping surfaces in good condition. Write today
for booklet 1159 and full information.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Jifanufactured by
The Solvay Process Company
New York

SOLVAY -
Calcium Chloride

TRADE um REG. u. s. PAT. orr.
Flake 77% ——80%

 

 

   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   

Horseshoe Pitching an Intramural Sport.—
Horseshoe pitching has become “collegiate.”
Recently it took its place with golf, basketball,
hand ball and mountain climbing in a new in-

tramural sports program at Syracuse Univer
sity.

Why Playgrounds P—In answer to a questio
appearing in an English test given in th
schools of Middletown, New York, a pupil i
the 61 grade wrote the following: “Ever
city should provide playgrounds for its chil
dren because if they don’t the children will b
doing dangerous things such as going out into
the street and playing. It also keeps thei
mind off bad habits. It keeps them happy an
contented the whole day. It also lets thei
parents know they. are in good care and no
running the streets as many children do whe
the city does not have a playground for them
Playgrounds are very healthful, too, becaus
the children get plenty of water and exercise.’

Is Play Vanishing From Playgrounds?
(Continued from page 129)

in the recorded practices of summer camps an
progressive schools that is suggestive and appli
cable to a playground setting.

If as play leaders, we are genuinely more con
cerned with the effect of the activity upon th
participant than the activity, and eager to giv
practical training for future citizenship, the fol
lowing steps would seem indicated:

I. Reduction of the amount of inter—play
ground competition, particularly in such activitie
as handcraft and low organization games, to e
able patrons to continue with projects in whic
they are interested.

2. Presentation at any given time of a wid
range of activities.

3. Organization of playground councils fro
among patrons themselves, to provide a charm
through which their interests and wishes can

expressed.

4. Free discussion groups for playground lea
ers, both for the exchange of program .ideas a
the consideration of common problems.

5. Incorporation in our leaders’ training cour
of subjects to enable them to deal effectively W1

personality as well as skills.

|' AS TO COMPETITION 161

i As to Competition
(Continued from‘page 134)

 ffort in a campaign to improve his mediocre
rbilities. All of these are efforts, you will note,
0 lend each athlete, if possible, some encourage-
‘ ent by pointing out to him the fact that while
‘ might be beaten by a star performer there is
' ill some accomplishment which proves his metal
L d promises ultimate success, if he will set him-

‘ .. f to the job of earning that success.

i,

Should we protect inefficiency from becoming ' giagzgdinzizg§sl3eouctour§st 11.3%, imam. Cal“ |
I ware of itself, on the plea that that fact is better toward 099mm (om-L- : . a. at proper an,” I
it undiscovered? Isn’t life, soon or late, in- 9.“? 1:3,“; ‘ff‘;{’,',‘";f"ggrffshgf‘fh'"afgaéznmgz:
vitably going to make him aware of it. and if we '"Wifé'ioi‘i‘iilé.ii‘:..f“$§-lffb§héll§“i; rap m
otect him from minor tragedy in his youth, do "’ °‘" 7°“ ‘00"!-
‘ - guarantee him protection thereby from major DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE C0.

gedy when finally the awful revelation beats 4610 Grand 5mm" Duluth Minn-

‘ m down?

Sewing Your Community Institutions
' (Continued from page 138)

' rk unlimited enthusiasm, deep loyalty, high
e Is and a sound technical knowledge. Because
i this he has it in his power to give service to

group which is usually not reached except by
a cial effort. Institutions come under this head-
. They form a definite part of a community,
d recreation executives are justified in making
is special effort to help them. How much help
ll be given depends on individual policies, on

1 sonal interest, on the need and on the budget.
‘ mething can be done everywhere.

I And to those executives who wish to do more,

following summary of suggestions may be

pful:_ Fascinating Play Devices
-- Write to every institution in your city,

offering whatever service you can give, ~ At New LOW Prlces 

 

 

   

i
. . . . . f
| even if it 18 only of an advrsory nature. YOUR Playground eqlglpmelfltLdogar :35 always '.
- o gone far in the purc ase 0 on en quipment I
P_rowde Personal. help 3‘} banquets, 1310' which stands up and lasts so long under continu-
n1cs, spec1al parties, holldays. ous hard usage. This year dollars go farther than .
. ' ' ' ' ' ' - ever. because Louden prices have been reduced—
' Inwte .mstlfutlons to particlpate m all with no reduction in quality. weight. or fine work-
your City-Wlde contests, and where 08- manshi of the roduct. It's good business to add
. P p_ p
Slble to come to your playgrounds. new equ1pmcnt and replace the old NOW.
' - - You need a compiere Loudea Catalog—(or present
Bring outSIde talents’ plays’ bands’ C“.- or future reference. May we send you a copy?

cus, and the like to those institutions

where the children or old folks cannot J’ E‘ PORTER CORPORATION

leave the grounds. 118 Broadway. Ottawa. Illinois

Provide occasional leaders to go to the

institutions. ———- 

. Provide traveling leaders and specialists PLAYGROUND
for the summer. EOWPMENT

 

162 RECREATION FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN

WHATEVER
your H O B BY

you will hm] it

EVERYDAY June

cience and ->

25c “1

the
COPY

 

ON ALL
NEWSSTANDS

4-Color Cover
Over 450 Illustrations :
96 Pages-9x12 Inches .-

 

MR. HUGO GERNSBACK’S latest magazine contains the

most important and recent developments in Science.
Mechanics, Radio, Television, Aviation and Chemistry.
For everyone, regardless of age, EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND
MECHANICS will be found to be useful and instructive.
It is thoroughly illustrated with scientific news events
from all parts of the world, and helpful to thousands of
pe0ple who wish to advance their scientilic knowledge.

Many excellent pages for students. instructors and for the
home workshop “man who finds pleasure in building

things; experiments in electricity, chemistry and formulas
of all kinds.

Just to mention a few departments:

AUTOMOTIVE HOUSEHOLD HINTS WOODWORKING
AVIATION METAL WORKING WRINKLES'
BIOLOGY NEW DEVICES RECIPES AND
BOOK REVIEWS PATENT ADVICE FORMULAS
CHEMISTRY PHOTOGRAPHY
ELECTRICITY RADIO SHOP KINKS
ENGINEERING TELEVISION and others
EPFEE'AL 8 MONTHS FOR $ | ~00

Mail Coupon Today!

EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS
100 '1" Park Place. New York. N. Y.

I enclose herewith One Dollar for which you are to enter my
subscription to EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS for the
next Eight Months.

AAAAAAAAA AAAA AAAA A

value of simplicity and a sense of values. No

in green flower pots, to sing lovely old songs,

   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
   
    
   

7. Send a monthly bulletin to every instit

tion suggesting new recreation ideas f
that month. '

8. Hold short training courses for the wor
ers in institutions.

9. Through newspaper articles, speech
meetings, aim for the highest standar
in recreation programs and for the abo
ishment of orphans’ day outings, the sen
ing of old discarded toys, and the feeli
on the part of so many people that “an

thing is good enough for a depende
child.”

10. Secure the cooperation of the Nation
Recreation Association in making a sp
cial study of the institutions in your cit

The depression is teaching us, once again, t
is the time, more than ever, to plant geraniu

read the best books, to walk endless hours in
sorts of weather, along all sorts of trails, to ta
the gifts the world has to offer—gifts that a
entirely free.

If we can help children to find and appreci
these gifts all along the way, we will have don
worthwhile job. For the person who has dev
oped resources within himself is well htted
face the stern realities of life.

Recreation for Crippled Children
(Continued from page 140)

participate. In the case of the relays that requ
moving, the children are so paired that one pa
ner can do his part sitting while the other mov
They are now learning to dance quadrilles.
the children’s parties and such affairs as the
ter Egg Hunt there are often from 200 to 400

all types of cases.

It is a big iield of endeavor filled with all ki
of possibilities, and one that must of necess
grow slowly, for there is linked with it the 1
of public consciousness of the need. If play i
necessity for the normal child’s development, h
much more is it needed for the handicapped ch
who is forced to make far greater adjustments
life? The recreation movement has a great
sponsibility and opportunity in helping the h
dicapped child to become a socially adjus
adult well able to use his leisure wisely.

SWIMMING AS A RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY 163

‘ Swimming as a Recreational Activity
‘ ( Continued from page 146)

teaching swimming in the school and a number
are studying. And it all began in a small swim-
ming pool in a boys’ club.

Community pools have in some instances
roved to be direct economic value in providing
leans of income for the expansion of its park
and playground activities as well as paying divi-
dends in health and happiness. On the site of
James VVhitcomb Riley’s, “Ole swimmin’ hole”
at Greenville, Indiana, now stands a modern
swimming pool in a park dedicated to his mem-
ory. The income from the small admission fee to
the swimming pool aided materially in supporting
the park program.

The swimming pool plays a large part in the
athletic development of a community and de-
mands that expert leadership be given. The
Swimming pool of today is a very different place
from that pictured by James Whit'comb Riley in
his famous poem. The modern swimming pool is
a community center with its clear water, its filtra-
tion plants, its trained recreation leaders and life-
uards.

Charges and Fees . .

Many recreation activities are possible in a
modern swimming pool. The tests developed by
the National Recreation Association with the co-
operation of the American Red Cross, have done
much to create a genuine interest in the recrea-
tional value of this most popular of all sports.

 

NOTE: The tests mentioned by Mr. Engelsen may be
secured from the National Recreation Association for

10 cents.

A Leaders' Swimming Club for

Business Girls
(Continued from page 148)

100 ft. breast stroke
14 mile free style
Demonstration of Resuscitation
Running Dive

Life Saving Test:

Advanced Swimmer:
To be responsible for at least one new mem-

ber, preferably a beginner
1/? mile crawl
1/4 mile Racer’s Back
I mile any stroke
3 approved dives

for Community Recreation Facilities and ‘Activities
of Public Park, Recreation and School Systems.

“Ought the use of all recreation facilities to be free?” Under what
conditions is it permissible to make a charge?” “What are other
cities doing?” These are questions discussed at length at all Recre-
ation Congresses and conferences where recreation workers convene.

NOW.

' The report of a study of charges and fees for community facilities

and activities of public park, recreation and school systems made by
the National Recreation Association, will be ready for distribution

about April 15th. The first comprehensive study along this line in
the entire field, it will have very great value for recreation and park
. workers and officials and all others interested in the leisure time field.

PAPER BOUND EDITION $I.OO
CLOTH. BOUND EDITIONI$L50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE .

 

NEW YORK CITY

 

164 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

      

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

New Jersey Municipalities, March 1932.

Public Recreation—1932 Needs Morale, Health,
Courage, by J. W. Faust.

Parks and Recreation, March 1932.

A Florida Park As a Community Center, by Albert
Schellenlberg. '

Hawes Playground at Leominster, by Herbert J.
Kellaw‘ay.

A New England Memorial Park, by John Nolen.

Designing a Boys’ Camp in the Minnesota Woods,

by Charles H. Ramsdell.

Pools and Playgrounds Help Los Angeles Unem-
played.

Hints on Building a Golf Course.

San Diego Takes an Intelligent Step Forward, by

Walter R. Scott.
Park Golf Growing Despite the Depression.

School Life, March 1932.

Twenty-live Years of PrOgress in Recreation, by
James Edward Rogers.

The Sportswoman, March 1932.
Concerning the Camp Program, by Barbara Ellen
Joy.

The New American, March 15, 1932. .
How Cleveland Does It, by John H. Gourley.

The Totem Pole, April 1932.

Vegetable Dyes, by Inez M. Haring and Julia M.
Buttree.

The American City, April 1932.

Reservoir Used for a Park in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Uglévlarsh Converted Into a Park in Monterey,
1 .

Every City Needs As Much Play Space As It Can
Afford, by Charles Herrick.

San Diego’s $300,000 Bond Issue Aids Recreation
Expansion Program.

New York Police Will Conduct Sports Tournament
As Crime Preventive.

Paving a Trail in a County Park.

Parks and Recreation, April 1932.

A Decade of Progress in- Recreation, by Robert

Washburn Beal.
At the Winter Olympic Games, by V. K. Brown.

Games for Men and Boys.

Public Park Golf Progress Reports.
Pine Knot Boats, by Louise Leighton.

The California Parent Teacher, March 1932.
Devoted to recreation.

PAMPHLETS

Training Camp Leaders, New York State College of
Forestry, Syracuse University, Syracuse.

A Bibliography for Camp Leaders, prepared by Fay Welch,
New York State College of Forestry, Syracuse Uni-
versity, Syracuse.

Regional Planning—The Region—Past, Present and Fu-
ture Regional Planning Federation of the Philadel—
phia Tri-State District, Philadelphia.

' of California’s National Forests. Containin

D. WEBSTER LOTT

D. Webster Lott, Supervisor of Munici-
pal Sports, Los Angeles, California, Depart-
ment of Playground and Recreation, died on
April 30th as the result of an automobile
accident. Mr. Lott, who was one of the
pioneer recreation leaders of the country,
began his work twenty-five years ago with
the South Chicago Park Commissioners.
He became associated with the Los Angeles
work in 19I4. As Supervisor of Municipal
Sport's Mr. Lott developed local associations
in tennis, baseball, basketball and many
other forms of athletics, providing a high
type of athletic competition for thousands
of men and boys.

50 ft. under water swim
3 properly executed stunts, alone or with
partner
Master’s Life Saving Test, Master’s Swi l
mer’s Test
Endurance, speed, life saving, diving an
stunts as enumerated in the test

   
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
  

NOTE: These tests were formulated by, and .will.b
under the direction of, Miss Onalee Koell, Sw1mm1

Instructor.

Recreation in the National Forests
(Continued from page 151)

stant source of timber to the State and Natio
but will also be an assurance of an unfailin
supply of water for all purposes.
Recreation Is Major Feature in All the Fores 9

Recreation is, of course, a major use of a

much scenic beauty, natural wonders, places a
scientific and historic interest, a plentiful su
ply of game, well—stocked streams, they a
the States’ outstanding vacation grounds. Th
their recreation advantages are appreciated '
attested by the fact that they were visitedlla
year by more than seventeen million peopl
The U. S. Forest Service has established 0v
1,000 camp grounds in the National Forests 1
California and is spending about $20,000 a
nually in maintaining existing camp groun .
and opening up new ones. Under permit fro
the Forest Service are fifteen recreation cam is;
established by municipalities to provide oppo

RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FOREST 165

    
   
 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      
 
    
 

  

for your
SWIMMI N6
POOL

ATER SPORT DEVICES! The
fun they provide—and the

profits that accrue!

Choose devices that help make
your pool a popular one—for a
popular pool is a profitable one.
Our new 1932 "Water Sports"
Catalog shows many new and
popular Water Sport Devices. Each
is constructed with thorough care
in order to insure safety, strength
and durability.

  

SEND FOR OUR NEW
1932 “POOL” CATALOG

American Playground Device Co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

   
 
   
   
   
 
   

tunities for their taxpayers for summer out-

ings. The first municipal camp was established MODEL BOAT MAKING
by Los Angeles, followed by Oakland, Berk- Popular Playground Activity
[eley, San Francisco, Stockton, Sacramento, 17 inch California redwood solid hull
and Riverside and by Los Angeles County. model. stands 26” high. .Complete with
l These camps have become so popular that sails and all other parts including brass

I . . , fittings $4.50 per doz. Postage extra.
some Clues have CStathhed two Of them ! L05 Other sizes available up to 36 inches. All fast sail-

I ' o o a - o o
Angeles has four. The land rs furnished free ms models for Your own assemblms and finishms-

of rental charges by the Forest Service. on Also motor speedboat kits.
most of them it is possible for a person to get

a two-weeks’ vacation at the rate of $1.50 a @ g //
day, exclusive of transportation charges. 8 d 6715‘
Guests are housed in attractive cabins or tent 739 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON' MASS'

houses, and are furnished with individual iron _ , ,
cots and mattresses_ Every camp provides strictly observe the rules of camp sanitation

Plenty of wholesome food. Stores and libraries and Cleanliness-
are maintained in most of them and nearly all The United states Forest Service has an

have natural or developed swimming pools, as important problem involved in the coordina-
well as athletic fields with an instructor in tion of recreational use with other uses of the

Send for catalog of handicraft supplies

 

charge. Every camp is in charge of a trained national forests. Timber supplies, watershed
camp director. The Forest Service asks the values, wild life, and range for livestock are
same of the guests at these camps as it does national forest resources which must be pro-
Jof any other vacationist who uses the F orest,— tected and developed along with recreational

_.,that he be careful with fire in the woods and opportunities. There must be systematic and
l

166 ' PLAY—A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

scientific classification of lands within the for—
est to the end that each area may be devoted
to its highest use or uses in the public interest.

In all of California’s National Forests, how-
ever, recreation is an inevitable feature of their
development. A country of such variety, in-
vested with attractive scenic areas and acces-
sible natural playgrounds, must sooner or later
become a health and pleasure resort of the
people, as well as a resource for their economic
welfare.

Ploy-a Universal Language
(Continued from page 154)

for many years a member of the Hungarian
Delegation at the International Scouting
Conferences.

From Japan there will come to the Congress
an official delegation of live members—Dr.
Seiichi Kishi, President of the Japan Amateur
Athletic Association and of the Far Eastern
Athletic Association; Mr. Ryozo Hiranuma,
President of the All-Japan Gymnastic Asso-
ciation and Vice-President of the Far 'Eastern
Athletic Association; Professor Buichi Ohtani,
head of the Research Institute of Physical Ed-
ucation; Mr. Tohoru Yanagita, Physical Ui-
rector of the Tokyo Y.M.C.A. and one of the
most active promoters of basketball and volley
ball, and Russell L. Durgin who is associated
with the work of the Y.M.C.A. in the metro-
politan area of Tokyo. Other delegates from
Japan include Mr. Soichi Saito, General Secre-
tary of the Tokyo Y.M.C.A.; Mr. Jiuji Kasai,
member of the Tokyo City Council, and Miss
Mary Chappell, a member of the faculty of the
Tokyo Women’s Christian University, who is
interested in recreation.

The most popular folk songs of many na-
tions will be sung by delegates to the Con-
gress under the direction of 'Mr. Augustus D.
Zanzig, director of music for the National
Recreation Association. Members of the folk
songs committee in various lands have done
work involving considerable research in select-
ing these songs. Some delightful songs have
been received at this writing from Hungary,
France, England, Holland, Poland, and Fin-
land, and will be made available through Con-
gress delegates.

Among the Americans thus far listed to par-
ticipate in the program are Joseph Lee of B05-

  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

ton, “father of the play movement in Ameri-
ca ;” Governor Rolph of California; Mrs. Hugh
Bradford, President of the National Congres
of Parents and Teachers; Dr. R. Tait McKen
zie, noted sports sculptor; Miss Leila Mechlin,
Secretary of the American Federation of Arts
Dr. Frank A. Bouelle, Superintendent 0
Schools in California and Miss Mabel Lee

former President of the National Physica
Education Association.

Some Events at the International

Congress
(Continued from page 156)

ern California Campus, the great Olympic Sta-
dium, the Los Angeles Olympic Swimming Sta
dium, the Los Angeles Museum, and other im
posing structures of Exposition Park.

On Wednesday, July 27, plans for a second tou
are being arranged by Mr. Cecil Martin of th
Pasadena Recreation Department. This trip will
take the visitors through the spacious drives of
Griffith Park into the thriving cities of Burbank,
Glendale, and Eagle Rock. From there the rout
will lead across the famous Colorado Stree
bridge over the gorge of the Arroyo Seco, int
beautiful Pasadena. In Pasadena the points of
interest visited will include the new civic center,
the Pasadena Community Playhouse, the famou
Christmas Tree Lane in Altadena, the magnificen
Huntington Library and Museum, historic old
San Gabriel Mission, the. mansions of Orang
Grove Avenue, and other places equally attrac
tive. This tour will end at Brookside Park, wher
a Spanish barbecue will be held for the benefit 0
Congress visitors.

Following the dinner the tour group will mov
from Brookside Park to the adjacent Pasaden
Rose Bowl for the International Play Day to b
held in that stadium during the evening. '

The Olympic Games. — Avery Brundage .
President of the American Olympic Commit
tee, appeals to all the allied groups to do every
thing in their power to interest their member .I
ship in contributing $1.00 per capita towar
the necessary expenses for the American Olym 'I
pic Team. It is necessary to secure in al 
$350,000. The office of George W. Graves, th
Chairman of the Finance Committee, is 23
John R Street, Detroit, Michigan.

~
g.—

New Books on Recreation

 

The Child and Play

book presenting significant findings of the White
5e Conference on Child Health and Protection on
subject of children’s play, prepared by James Edward
, rs, and published by the Century Company, 353
rth Avenue, New York City. $2.00.

E formal reports of committees usually are dull.
. They may contain important facts and proposals, but
'- form of presentation is often similar to encycIOpedia
' cles, and they are designed to serve a somewhat simi-
purpose. The result is that such reports are read in
main only by those whose responsibility it is to read
- . A prominent business man recently remarked that
idea of Heaven is a place where there are no re-

s to be read.

   
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   

is therefore a fine public service that Mr. Rogers
performed in taking the reperts of the White House
ference on Child Health and Protection, which re-
to play, and presenting their essential findings in a
. readable and stimulating book entitled, “The Child
Play.” This volume grips the reader’s interest from
r to cover and gives the most recent facts and prac-
proposals for this all-important aspect of child life.

 
 

he book may be read “with pleasure and profit.” It
rtakes to answer, in the light of thoroughgoing
's and reports, the question: “What must be done
ring to every child his rightful inheritance of happy
beneficial play ?” It is probably the nearest approach
satisfactory answer that we have yet had.

—LEE F. HANMER.

Hobbies and Programs

? Git-125; Friendly Society, 386 Fourth Avenue, New
. v» -

e Girls’ Friendly Society has made a delightful
ntribution to the enrichment of the leisure time field
h hobbies in this attractive booklet. Music, poetry
rt, handcraft and nature appreciation are the gen-
OLbiects discussed. Of special interest to recreation
ers is the practical section on handcraft. While the
.is designed primarily for Grils’ Friendly groups, it
u of interest to all conducting leisure time activities
ged in the pursuit of hobbies.

How-To-Do-lt"Bool<s for Home
Workshops

Edition) E. C. Atkins and Company, Indianapolis.

. illustrated booklet tells the home workman how
plan and equip his shop, how to build a bench, wall
t and tool boxes, how to make twenty-four types
od joints, and how to do a number of things which
ndy man around the house will want to master.

0
t

l

The National 4-H Club Radio
Programs

COOperative Extension Work in Agriculture and Home
Economics, Washington, D. C.

ALL interested in rural recreation opportunities will want
to know that the addresses broadcast over the Farm
and Home Hour network of the National Broadcasting
Company are now available for distribution. These
broadcasts are given over a network of forty-nine radio

stations the first Saturday in the month from 12:30 to
1:30 P. M.

Subsistence Gardens

Uniéed States Government Printing Office, \Vashington,
D. .

THIS pamphlet, prepared for the President’s Organiza-
tion on Unemployment Relef, contains some brief re-
ports on industrial, community and municipal projects
prepared from reports received from states and local
communities. It supplies some interesting testimony re-
garding the value of. thrift gardens in a period of eco-
nomic stress. Recent communications received by the
President’s Organization indicate that subsistence gar-
dening programs will be carried on this coming season
more extensively than last year. The success of the gar-
dens, together with the food conservation programs car-
ried on, especially in many of the southern states, had
more far-reaching benefits than had Ibeen anticipated
even by groups sponsoring the activities.

The Athlete in the Making

By Jesse Feiring Williams, M.D. and Eugene \Vhite
gigoon, M. A., \V. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia.
2. .

Tms book has been written to help the great numbers of
pe0ple who are striving for greater proficiency in their
favorite sports as well as to give assistance to thousands
of others engaged as instructors, by presenting the scien-
tific facts which are fundamental to the acquisition and
appreciation of all such skills. For, the authors point
out, there are basic facts abOut the processes of learning
which are equally applicable to learning skill in billiards,
ping-pong, football or prize fighting. Part I presents the
facts underlying the acquisition of athletic proficiency.
Part II considers the practical points of value in train-
ing or conditionaling an athlete, and describes in detail
how training efforts may be directed intelligently. Part
III consists of an application of the discussions in Parts
I and II to a number of sports. The facts presented in
this book have been formulated in a practical way and
interpreted in every day language.

167

L0

168 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Status and Professional Preparation of Recreatipn
Center Executives and Workers in California,

1929.
University of California Press, Berkeley, California.

This study of recreation workers in.California was
made under the Sigmund Stern Foundation for the De-
partment of Economics at the University of California.
The first part of the study undertakes to answer the
questions: How many positions in the field of recrea-
tion are now available in California? What is the na-
ture of the work? What professional standards are now
recognized? Do these positions carry salaries and con-
ditions of work which would justify graduate profes-
sional training? The second part of the study analyzes
the curricula in recreation offered by the outstanding
schools in the United States and Canada and suggests a
program for the University of California.

What is This Opportunity School?

By Fletcher Harper Swift and John W..Studebaker.
American Association for Adult Education, 60 East
42nd Street, New York. $1.00.

One of the most unusual experiments in adult educa-
tion has been in operation for sixteen years in Denver
under the name of “Opportunity School.” The school,
which is tax supported, was established .to provide a
working knowledge of many trades and industries; to
offer opportunities to men and women already in me—
chanical, industrial and commercial pursuits; to provide
the fundamentals of an education for people deprived of
school advantages in youth; to give another chance to
boys and girls who for various reasons have 'not fitted
well into the regular public schools, and to give people
born in other countries a chance to learn English and
prepare them for citizenship. The pamphlet presents the
results of a study made of this school, which gives a
vivid picture of the school and the students, the .results
accomplished," and the needs, problems and baSic issues.

The Sew-It Book.

By Rachel Taft Dixon. Rand McNally and Com-
pany, New York. $1.00.

This book is based on what children prefer—not com-
plete and finished playthings but a chance to take ma-
terials and turn them into products themselves. A great
variety of things to make with needle and thread and
odds and ends are described in this book, which contains
many patterns and illustrations.

Parties for All Occasions.

Delineator Institute. Butterick Building, 161 Sixth
Avenue, New York City. $.25.

A delightful booklet of suggestions for holidays and
other parties with attractive and unique illustrations.

Leisure-Time Activities of Rural Children in Selected
Areas of West Virginia.

By Ella Gardner and Caroline E. Legg. Publication
No. 208. Children’s Bureau. Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C. $.20.

Miss Ella Gardner, Recreation Specialist of the Chil-
dren’s Bureau, during the past three years has devoted
most of her time to demonstrations at 4-H club camps
and to classes and institutes for rural recreation leaders.
She is well equipped to interpret the findings ofoa study
of the needs and interests of children in rural districts.

It is interesting to note that with the boys, farm work
is listed as their chief interest. Then comes baseball,
with other games as third choice; free play actiVities in
the woods and fields as fourth; hunting and trapping,
fifth, and reading, sixth. Reading is the activity most
pepular with the girls, with sewing second; games, all
except ball, third; free play actiirities in the woods and
fields, fourth; hiking, fifth, and music, sixth. .

Rural children in the section of West Virginia studied

were found to have an average of 2.6 hours daily 5
which to do as they pleased. The authors of this pampl
let offer many practical suggestions for the use of thi
free time. The booklet with its findings and recommei
dations will be of keen interest not only to workers i
rural fields, but to all concerned with the leisure tirr
interests of children everywhere.

Party Games.

McCall’s Magazine, New York. $.30.

This amusingly illustrated booklet contains ice breal
ers, suggestions for fun with .peanuts and with feathei
and balloons, pencil and paper- games, intelligence test
charades, and games and activities of many kinds.

 

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP. MANAGEMENT. CIRCUL}
TION. ETC.. REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS C
AUGUST 24. 1912. of RECREATION. published monthly at New Yori
N. Y.. for April I. 1932.

State of New York

County of New York 88'

Before me. a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesa'
personally appeared H. S. Braucher. who. having been duly sworn J
cording to law. deposes and says that he is the editor of RECREATIOI
and that the following is. to the best of his knowledge and belief.
true statement of the ownership. management (and if a daily paper.
circulation). etc.. of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in
above caption. required by the Act of August 24. I912. embodied .
section 411. Postal Laws and Regulations. printed on the reverse I
this form. to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher. editor. managi‘
editor. and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. N
York. N. Y.

Editor: H. S. Brancher. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York. N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York. N.
N B‘PSiDCSI Manager: Arthur Williams. 315 Fourth Avenue. New Yo

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation. its name
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more
total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation. the names
addresses of the individual owners must be giVen. If owned by a u
company. or other unincorporated concern. its name and address. as
as those of each individual member. must be given.)

National Recreation Association. 3 l 5 Fourth Avenue. New York. N.

Mrs. Edward W. Biddle. Carlisle. Pa.: William Butterworth. Moli
Ill.: Clarence M. Clark. Philadelphia. Pa.: Henry L. Corbett. Portla
0re.: Mrs. Arthur G. Cnmmer. Jacksonville. Fla.: F. Trubee Davi
Locust Valley. L. I.. N. Y.: Mrs. Thomas A. Edison. West Ora
N. J.: John H. Finley. New York. N. Y.: Hugh Frayne. New Y
N. Y.: Robert Garrett. Baltimore. Md.: Austin E. Griffiths. Seat
Wash.: William Hale Harkuess. New York. N. Y.: Charles Hay
New York. N. Y.: Mrs. Charles V. Hickox. Michigan City. Ind.:
Francis deLacy Hyde. Plainfield. N. J.: Gustavus T. Kirby. New Y
N. Y.: H. McK. Landon. Indianapolis. Ind.: Mrs. Charles D. La
Greenwich. Conn.: Robert Lassiter. Charlotte. N. C.: Joseph Lee.
ton. Mass.: Edward E. Loomis. New York. N. Y.: J. H. Mch
Springfield. Mass.: Otto T. Mallery. Philadelphia. Pa.; Walter A.
Pittsburgh. Pa.: Carl E. Milliken. Augusta. Me.: Mrs. Ogden L. M
Washington. D. C.: Miss Ellen Scripps. LaJolla. Calif.: Frederic
Titsworth. New York. N. Y.: Mrs. James W. Wadsworth. Jr.. W
ingtou. D. C.: J. C. Walsh. New York. N. Y.: John G. Win
Concord. N. H.'. Mrs. William H. Woodiu. Jr.. Plainiield. N.
Frederick M. Warbnrg. New York. N. Y.

3. That the known bondholders. mortgagees. and other security
ers owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of be
mortgages. or other securities are: (If there are none. so state.)

4. That the two paragraphs next above. giving the names of
owners. stockholders. and security holders. if any. contain not onl
list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the b
of the company but also. in cases where the stockholder or sec
holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any
nduciary relation. the name of the person or corporation for whom
trustee is acting. is given: also that the said two paragraphs co
statements embracing amaut's full knowledge and belief as to the
cumstauces and conditions under which stockholders and security ho
who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees.
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona lide o
and this afiiant has no reason to believe that any other person. as
tion. or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said 8
bonds. or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of cOpies of each issue of this pn
tion sold or distributed. through the mails or otherwise. to paid
scribers during the six months preceding the date shown above is (
information is required from daily publications only.)

H. S. BRAUCH
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 21st day of March. 193

[Seal] CLARENCE B. WILS
Queens County Clerk's No. 1943. Certificate filed in New
County Clerk's No. 502.

    
    
  
 
    
 
   
    
   
    
    
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
    
   

“~me

‘;
(My commission espires March 30. 193.3";I

