Can We Afford Recreation" Now?

NCOME is lower. Taxes are higher. The need for relief in food, clothing, shel—
ter, is greater. Wisely or non—"everyone is cutting expenditures, looking for
a place to cut. City governments andgtaxpayeri’sassociations are no exception!

A bankrupt city or nation must cut all expenses. But Where a city is not bank-
rupt, what then? Shall we in modern cities cut first the play of our little children?
Shall we begin there? Playifor children is life, growth. Play is the most charac-
teristic activity of childhood. Only so far as a child plays is he really alive. Play is the
most important means for the, education of the child. Shall the first reduction be
at' the expensepf“ our children’s life and education? If so, our bankruptcy is

more than financial. “ It is spiritual and cultural.

Where the,emergency is great, schools and playgrounds must, of course,
economize as‘ well as firemen andipolicemen. But there is no economy in closing
playgrounds and adding more policemen and filling our‘ hospital beds with children
injured in street play.

And what about those who know the “bitter leisure of unemployment”? There
is often no use in seeking for work when there is none, when the soles of the
shoes 'are already worn through. There .is leisure more than ever has been known
before in thei‘history of the world. Men have “hungers” for music, drama, for
making thingsi‘wi‘th their hands, for games, for being together in a social way. Shall
these hungers be denied at a time like this when there is no money to buy?

Is it better-“that idle upon‘ the street corner men shall stand, and women, too,
and gloom ‘ineet gloom? Or is it wiser to leave open our recreation centers where
the unemployed and their families ‘may come for a warmth that is more than
physical, where they can know activity that brings at least a measure of happiness,
where there is good comradeship and cheer, where the passing-of time is forgotten?

Members of city governments—choose you whether you will be wise and
long visioned or shortsighted in your economy. For every act of folly is costly.

And God knows that in a world like ours today full of unreasoning fear and
despair—~there is even greater need of good cheer and morale than in the days of
the World War when the United States expended nearly two hundred million
dollars for recreation.

Make every economy possible in recreation expenditures —yes, but we may
well be careful how we close our schools, our playgrounds, our recreation centers,
which stand for the reconstructed future when normal living shall again prevail.

Take a few cents out of the tax dollar for recreation, and what is left is worth

more than the whole tax dollar was before.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

597

Winter Days

 

H. Armstrong Roberts

"There is nothing more rare or quite so nearly
perFect as a clear, crisp, sunshiny day in midwinter.
The winter storm gods have never been excelled
as landscape architects. They decorate the country-
side in a coat oF virgin white which, charming in its
very simplicity and beautiFul in its spotlessness, is
a sight For any eye. Especially does the beauty oF

the wintry landscape appeal to us aFter a Fresh
598

‘ -' *=-—*-‘3¢:-d—r 1.

Fall oF snow. This spreads the walls and Fences
with a FluFFy white Frosting and drapes the trees oF
the Forest with Festoons oF exquisite loveliness.
And this beauty is Further enhanced iF we view
it at sunrise when the Face oF Nature takes on a
delicate tint that renders it more charming than
when seen under the broad light oF noonday."—

W. Dustin White in The Book of Winter Sports.

The Development of Personality
Through Leisure

By MARIA LAMBIN ROGERS

A brief stock-taking of a

few of our social factors.

“ E want fullness of life in America for the
W average man.”

In the past forty years vast recreation enter-
prises ‘have been set up in the United States, the
avowed purpose of which is to afford the aver-
age man opportunities for fullness of life. Be*
tween purpose and achievement, however, a vast
gulf lies. Particularly in any sociological under-
taking is this true. We recreation workers can-
not too often take stock of what is being done,
of what is yet to be accomplished and of the
social factors in our civilization which threaten
the successful accomplishment of our dreams.
Many considerations must enter into such a
stock-taking, some of which are outlined in the
succeeding paragraphs.

Perhaps it will help us to orient ourselves to-
ward this subject if we consider briefly another
pressing social problem which we are all think-
ing about today, namely unemployment. We are
confronted continuously with explanations of its
cause, of its unfortunate psychological and social
effects, and with plans for its solution, some su-
perncial, some aiming at permanent cure. A few
speakers and writers take the position that it is a
natural economic ill which will right itself and
no effective social action can be marshalled to
solve the problems it presents. Suggestions in-
finite in number are made for dealing with the
poverty it- causes. Some want immediate chari-
- table relief without regard to the standards of
family rehabilitation which have been slowly
formulated through forty years of work by the
family welfare societies; others, temporary odd
jobs; some, the collection of funds to give heads
of families part time employment and thus save

Mrs. Rogers speaks from a back-
ground ot rich experience in the
leisure-time Field. She is author
of a recently published booklet
entitlet "A Contribution to the
Theory and Practise of Parents'
Associations."

their self-respect; some, the pushing forward of
public works. Then more fundamental reforms
are advocated, such as the extension of mothers’
pensions to save children from the evil psycho—
logical effects of insecurity and enforced poverty.
the development of State unemployment insur-
ance, and so on. We hear discussions of the
psychological effect of unemployment on the
children of the family and its connection with
juvenile delinquency and adult anti-social atti-
tudes. And we have long scientific and unscien-
tific dissertations on who is to blame, colored ac-
cording to the political or economic biases of the
writers.

I have named only a few of the vast social
ramifications of this pressing problem into which
we have recently been plunged and towards which
the energies of the country are turned in an at‘
tempt to find temporary or permanent solutions.
I have done this because I thought this problem,
which is current news at the moment, would well
illustrate the social importance, the magnitude
and the complexity which confront us when we
begin to discuss the problems concerned with
leisure time. The analogy may be pushed even
further: the way in which each individual spends
his leisure time affects him as profoundly psycho-
logically as the loss of his work in a period of
unemployment affects his living conditions and his
future economic security. And the opportunities
for healthful and happy use of leisure time are

599

600 DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY THROUGH LEISURE

of as much social concern as it is generally
acknowedged that unemployment is. Each
subject is a challenge to our best, most scien—
tific thinking, and to our ability to work to-
gether intelligently toward the solution of the
many probems they indicate.

The subject of leisure time should be ap-
proached from a broad philosophical point of
view. So far, no definitive solutions have been
formulated for lack of adequate data on which
to form conclusions and make recommenda-
tions. There are, it is true, plenty of discus—
sions of leisure time problems in magazines,
the newspapers, the pulpit, classrooms and
forums, but accurate scientific studies of the
problems involved are very few. Practically
every solution advanced is a .
rationalization of the indi—
vidual writer’s or speaker’s
prejudices. The subject is
still in the stage where any-
body’s generalization goes,
provided it is presented with
sufficient force and skill to
arouse conviction.

drastic reorganization of our eco—
nomic system."-—- Professor Arlbur

H. Compton, Nobel Prize Winner.

Factors in the Modern
Leisure Time Problem

No solutions therefore will
be presented in this article. I shall merely call
attention to some of the factors which enter
into the leisure time problem in modern soci-
ety and indicate some of the experiments
which seem to ,be contributing towards solu-
tions.

First among the factors to be considered is
the physiological and emotional nature of
man. Play for the child and recreation for the
adult have a definite physioligical and psycho-
logical function. When the child or the man
is deprived of them he suffers from lop-sided
development of the intellectual faculties at
the expense of his other faculties. Man is not
only an intellectual being. He has four equally
important functions — feeling, sensation,
thought and imagination, all of which must be
developed if he is to have physical and mental
health. Our civilization today does not pro—
vide for such all-round development. Quite
the contrary. The psychoanalyst, Dr. Carl
Jung, has made what I think is the best state-
ment of this situation: He says in Psychologi—
cal Types: “W e possess today a highly devel-

"Nothing can stay the rapid mech-
anization of industry and the arts,
for this is in the direction of easier
living. Along with this must come
greater leisure, though, as we are
already aware, this increased leisure
can hardly be realized without a

oped collective culture, which in organization
excels anything that ever existed, but which
for that reason has become increasingly injur-
ious to individual culture." By which Jung
means development of all the individual’s ca—
pacities, feeling, sensation, thought and intui-
tion or imagination. “There exists a deep gulf
between what a man is and what he repre-
sents, i.e. between the man as an individual
and his function-capacity as a collective be-

ing"——that is, his contribution as a member of
society. “His function is developed at the ex-
pense of his individuality.” “But,” he con—
tinues, “this onesided development must in-
evitably lead to a reaction, since the repressed

. . . functions cannot be indefinitely excluded
from . . . life and develop-
ment. The time will come
when the cleavage of the in-
ner man must be resolved
and the undeveloped (func—
tions) granted an opportun-
ity to live.”

It follows from this that in
his leisure time man must
pursue activities which re-
solve this cleavage and give
him an opportunity to exer-
cise his repressed functions.
If no such outlets are provided by our social
institutions, and man is valued only for the
work he does, the repressed functions show
themselves in violent anti-social activities,
such as revolutions, crowd and mob behavior
of various kinds with which we are familiar,
in crime and delinquency or in neuroses and
psychoses, where the conflict is wholly inter—
nal. For those who are interested in a more
detailed study of this type of human behavior,
I recommend Everett Dean Martin's Behavior
of Crowds, where the mechanisms, of this kind
of release from repressions are fully described.

Development of All Functions Essential

This development of all the functions of
man must begin in childhood. Such play
habits must be built in early life so that as an
adult, man can derive the maximum satisfac-
tion from his recreational life. There is, there-
fore, a close connection between the type of
education to which a child is subjected and the
kind of recreational activities which he will
embrace as an adult. The old-fashioned

DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY THROUGH LEISURE

academic education dealing only with subject
matter to be crammed into the child, affording
no opportunities for training in active parti-
cipation in group-life, in making things, in
exercising the imagination and expanding the
emotional endowment, while all the time the
child was held almost inert in a school room
with nailed down seats, was perhaps the worst
possible preparation for a life of well—spent
leisure. The child who does not know how" to
use his body will not enjoy dancing as an art
when he grows up; the child who is afraid of
spontaneous self-expression will not dare to
play a trap-drum just for the fun of it when
he is older; the child who has not painted
seriously will not pursue this subject as an
amateur in later life. Do not accept these
generalizations as dogmatic and final, for ex-
ceptions to all of them are a matter of com-
mon observation, but these are the logical in-
ferences to be drawn from the physiological
and psychological data at present available.
The fact that there are exceptions simply
bears out what I said above about the paucity
of scientific data on this subject.

We can be quite certain, however, that the
early education of the child has a definite
bearing on the ways in which he will spend
his leisure time as an adult. It is evident from
this that one solution to the
leisure—time problem is bound

601

and resourcefulness of the individual. But
fascinating as this picture of a world auto~
matically made over by modern education may
be, it is too delightful to be true, and a serious
study of leisure time problems must take into
account other factors, factors which are basic
and will yield with more difficulty to social
change. "'”

/ The Influence of Machine Production

/

The first and most important of these is an
historical fact—the change wrought in the
rhythm and character of our lives by the In—
dustrial Revolution and machine production.
In the opinion of many writers the change
from a handicraft to a machine economy has
actually created our modern leisure time prob-
lem. Previous to the machine age, they say,
the mass of men worked together and spent
their little leisure time together in small vil-
lage groups. Forms of recreation were tradi-
tional. They were folk—dancing, folk-songs,
and seasonal festivals the outgrowth largely
of religious Observances which had been secu—
larized. Indeed, many of the recreations were
actually religious, as we find among primitive
peoples today. The Indian dances in the South
West are one example, the modern fiestas, half
religious, half secular, to be seen in Mexico,

are another. And these tradi-
tional forms fully released

up with the spread of the so-
called progressive education
movement to all our educa—
tional systems, public and
private, which must learn to
take the child’s needs as their
starting point and not a cer-
tain amount of stereotyped
subject matter to be crammed
into him in the shortest pos-
sible time. The more chil-
dren are given the advantage
of that type of education
which makes large demands
on initiative, imagination,
participation in activities, in-
dependence of thought and
judgment, the more demand
there will be in adult life for
leisure time activities which
are rich in imaginative con-
tent and release the initiative

"lt is reliably stated that the in-
crease of the working man power
of machines in America has in-
creased since l900 about l,l00
per cent while the population has
increased but about 50 per cent.
It is estimated that we have ma-
chines in such numbers that their
maximum potential power capacity
is equal to 700,000,000 horses,
and reckoning one horse equal to
eight men it can be said that our
machines can do the work of 5,-
600,000,000 adult working men.
All this tremendous machine power
is not being utilized at maximum
capacity, but is said that 'Ameri-
cans get from their machines work
equivalent to the labor of about
690,000,000 adult workingmen
toiling ten hours per day, 365
days in the year.”

all the energies of the indi-
viduals who participated in
them. They called on physi-
cal prowess, they had deep
emotional significance; they
appealed to the imagination
and to aesthetic appreciation.
In some subtle and obscure
way, those who participated
found energies exhausted in
work completely renewed.
But the machine age has
changed all that. It has di-
vided the day into strictly de-
fined intervals of work and
of leisure time. Furthermore,
the machine, by speeding up
production, has conferred on
the masses immense increases
of free time. This stupendous
increase in the amount of lei-
sure came at a time when the

602 DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY THROUGH LEISURE

population was crowding into
cities, thus destroying the old
village work-and-play—groups
and the traditional play-
forms rooted in them; at a
time when the real wage was
mounting and everybody had
more money at his free dis-
posal than ever before in the
world’s history. What hap-
pened could have been pre-
dicted, taking into account
the intense emphasis on com-
mercial development in that
period. Commercial enter-
prises for separating the man
and his money during his lei-
sure time sprang up every
where and expanded as fast
as the spending power of the

nation permitted. By 1910 in
this country, where machine

production is practised most
whole—heartedly, these commercial amuse—
ments dominated the field of leisure time ac-
tivities.

Commercial Amusements

But here it is important to make the point
that what these commercial enterprises of—
fered was not the old, intimate, physiologi-
cally and psychologically satisfying experi-
ence, which we term “recreation,” but amuse—
ment and entertainment, which are quite a dif—
ferent thing. Whether different in kind or in
degree we are as yet ignorant. The psychology
of recreation is an almost untouched field.

To make clear what I have just said, it is
necessary to define these three words: recrea-
tion, amusement and entertainment, as accur—
ately as our present knowledge permits. Rec—
ration in its earliest meaning was literally
re-creation, a new birth. In a more limited
sense it was used as we now use convales-
cence, a recovery from illness, a restoration.
To Dr. John Dewey we are indebted for our
best definition to date of recreation in psycho-
logical terms, He says that, “the service of
recreation is to engage and release impulses
. .. (through active participation) in ways
quite different from those in which they are
occupied and employed in ordinary activities.”

"Control of natural forces by means
of machinery has brought to hu-
manity the possibility of an amount
of leisure from which the mass of
men and women in the past were
hopelessly shut out. At the same
time, popular amusements and re-
creation have been seized upon as
means of financial profit. The com-
bination of these two facts has
created what may be truly called
a crisis in our national moral life.
A new conception of the uses of
leisure has to be created; boys
and girls need to be instructed so
that they can discriminate between
the enioyments that enrich and
enlarge their lives and those which side. Amusement is the sen-
degrade and dissipate."--Dr. john
Dewey, The New York Times.

The drive towards participa-
tion comes largely from with-
in and its expression is spon-
taneous, free and individual.
Dewey adds, “Such recrea-
tions add fresh and deeper
meanings to the usual activi-
ties of life.” They utilize
drives and powers not ex-
pressed at all or only partially
in work, the expression of
which reveal to the individual
a new as p ec t of himself.
Amusement and entertain-
ment do not demand this in-
ner drive and do not lead to
self-revelation. They are re—
sponses to stimuli from out-

sation one gets when an out-
side stimulus like a roller
coaster is applied. Entertain-
ment contains elements of ap-
preciation such as are called forth by listening
to grand opera or looking at paintings. * Now
the commercial amusements are organized to
supply opportunities for amusement, to some
degree for entertainment, but certainly not for
self-revelation. If self-revelation is derived
from participation in any one of them, it is an
individual accident. A glance at a list of these
amusements will make this contention clear
without further argument. They include dance
halls, poolrooms, amusement parks, carnivals.
professional hockey, baseball and football and
other sports, cabarets, theatres, vaudeville and
burlesque. Radio and Tom Thumb golf are
recent additions.

It is generally admitted that opportunities
for self-revelation in work have been cut down
by machine processes and that they are not
now so common as they were in the handi-
craft age. Therefore it is all the more neces-
sary that the individual should have these ex-
periences in his leisure time. But what has
happened in the twentieth century is that the

leisure of modern man is spent going from one

commercial amusement to another, and that
his leisure time has therefore become what
Prof. L. P. Jacks calls “deviltalized.” To put

 

*A definition for which I am indebted to Dr. Jay B.
Nash of New York University.

DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY THROUGH LEISURE 603

it another way, the rich heritage of recreation-
al opportunities which man has enjoyed for un-
told centuries has been lost and nothing has
been put in its place which is equally satisfying
physiologically and psychologically. With his
ancient right to self-expression thus lost, man’s
life has become impoverished and sterile be-
yond computation. Meanwhile, the commer—
cial amusements flourish, ranking in impor—
tance in financial investment, income and
turnover with our largest industries, such as

steel, oil and rubber.

Enter Publicly
Supported
Recreation

Until very re-
cently there was
no widespread
reaction against
this situation,
but some time af-
ter the opening
of the century,
with the in-
creased knowl-
edge of child na-
ture and child
nurture brought
by psychology,
children’s play-
grounds sprang
up in large num— I _
bers throughout 
the Country. Ed... Courtesy "Park: and Recreation"
ucators and so-
cial w o r k e r s

brought home to the public the sterility of op—
portunities for children’s play caused by the
congestion of city population and the horrify—
ing discovery that children were fast forget-
ting how to play in the sophisticated atmo-
sphere of the time. When the children’s play-
grounds were established, it was found that
young wage-earners craved opportunties to
play also and they invaded the hitherto closed
school houses, and gymnasiums and park field

ties at public expense. Then another surpris-
ing discovery was made. Adults, too, desired
opportunities to do more spontaneous things
than the commercial amusements permitted.
They liked amateur theatricals, handicrafts,

amateur painting, partiCipation in sports and
a hundred other activities. Enormous expan-
sion of private and public recreation systems
was the result, in which wide opportunity was
offered for all forms of play and recreational
activities for children and adults. The supply
does not keep pace with the demand. And it
was discovered that such healthy participation
in activities really refreshed the workers and
sent them back to their jobs with renewed
vigor. In other words, practise bore out the
theory alluded to above. States, too, through
State park systems, are helping to provide for

.- --—-,---.- - - — -- -—.'-|.

 

Then came the public recreation movement and
the opportunity for participation for all.

the recreational needs of the people. Admir-
able beginnings have been made by the State
park system of New York, by California in
the use of State lands for marvelous family
camps, and by many other places throughout
the country with which you are all familiar.

In this all too brief summary of the factors
entering into the leisure time problem, men-
tion must be made of the part played by city
planners and the new housing experiments.
The city planners are insisting that any proper
city plan make wide provision for space for
play and recreation. The new housing experi-
ments are pointing the way to private provi—
sion for play and recreation for the children
of the community and for the adults. They

604 DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY THROUGH LEISURE

have already demonstrated that the community
which has these Opportunities is happier and
more content with life than the ordinary city
dwellers within high walls, who have no tennis
courts or baseball fields at their backdoors.

To sum up, the future character assumed by
our American civilization rests in no small
measure upon the workers in the recreation
movement, by which I mean not only the pro—
fessional staff but those devoted men and
women who give hours of time and energy to
discussion of policies, to raising money and
lending prestige to the work.

Well-informed Leadership Vital

\Ve want fullness of life in America for the
average man. Fullness of life depends on in-
tegration of thought, sensation, feeling and
imagination. That integration must begin in
childhood, or rather, children must not be
robbed of it through educational methods
founded not on their needs but on irrelevant
opportunism. A beginning towards this kind
of education has been made in 'some of our
progressive schools. Therefore, the workers
in récreation movement are vitally concerned
with,jth,e development of progressive educa-
tion: I should like to see this relationship made
more explicit and see an interchange of opinion
and experience going on between these two
groups all over the country.

Recreation workers are also closely con-
cerned with the developmnt of city planning,
which has just begun to catch the imagination
of our population. They are concerned, too,
with the development of the housing move-
ment by means of which the majority of homes
will be provided with more adequate recrea-
tional facilities than has been the case in the

past and thus be enabled to' supplement the‘

work done in the recreation centers. Recrea-
tion workers are concerned with following the
findings of modern anthropology and psychol-
ogy. In the anthropologists’ study of primitive
people recreation workers can learn how man
in previous civilizations has solved his leisure
problem, for it is a problem as old as life.
Modern psychology will give him the scien-
tific basis for his work. It will enable him to
plan programs with increasing scientific preci-
sion. When the recreation movement started
forty years ago, we had little scientific basis
beyond the Writings of Froebel, Schiller, Gross
and James. Today we have a host of child

1“

psychologists and research bureaus and the
remarkable investigations of Jung, Freud and
Adler to aid our work. Jung has gone beyond
Schiller and made his 18th century contribu-
tion to this problem more precise.

Indirectly the recreation workers are also
dependent on the new movement of parent
education by which parents will be taught
more about the fundamental needs of child-
hood and human nature and will be led to a
more adequate appreciation of recreation work.
A sound basis of parent understanding will
make possible more generous community sup-
port for recreation enterprises and will enable
the workers to erect and adhere to higher qual-
itative standards of work, thus diminishing
the emphasis on numbers which has charac-
terized so many recreation institutions in
the past.

\Vprkers in recreation are more baffled than
workers in other branches of social work. That
is because theirs is the most difficult, the most
all-involving of the social arts. Theirs is the
life art. Through .it a new level for our group
life may be attained. The movement towards
this new level of'human life is involved with
the very foundations of our society. To realize
that great' issues are invfolved in recreation
is a dynamic experience, but it also makes us
challenge and scrutinize continually our pro-
grams and our methods, our knowledge and
our faith in a glorious future for American
culture, which will approximate on the aes-
thetic and imaginative side, what we have
already accomplished on the economic and
intellectual side.

“It' has been pointed out that individuals tend to
take their recreation second—hand through watch-
ing, listening, riding, rather than through the more
rewarding form of active participation. Taking
the population of the country as a whole, we find
30,000,000 listeners a night, 50,000,000 movie ad-
missions a week, 35,000,000 copies of newspapers
and tabloids a day, I 5,000,000 popular magazines
a month, and a pleasure motoring bill of
$5,000,000,000 a year. The total costs of leisure-
time activities run to $21,000,000,000, or about
one-quarter of the national income. Approxi-
mately half of it is mechanized. The battle is
joined between genuine and rewarding uses of
leisure, and what may be termed watching or pull-
ing the levers of jumping jacks.”—Stuart Chase.

 

Courtesy American Rolling M it! Company

Winter hikers establish feeding stations
for the birds in the heart of the woods.

Forest Activities

By MARIE F. HEISLEY

Forest Service
25;“? U. S. Department of
' Agriculture

0

Trees with their blankets of snow,

just as interesting as they are at

other seasons and hold almost as
many pleasures for the recreation
seeker. In those parts of the country
where cold and snow are the order of the winter
days, the forests and woodlands form the setting
for many of the various winter sports that are
now in full swing. Even though you do not par-
ticipate in any of these sports, however, you may
find pleasure both in the snowbound forests of
the North and the open woods of the South.

THE woods in their winter dress are

Now that trees are bare and the undergrowth
has died off, you may get many more glimpses of
the wild forest denizens, and more easily follow
them to observe their habits of life. Animal
tracks in the snow will tell stories—sometimes
tragic—of forest life. These t'racks may also
give you the thrill of following
some wild creature to its home.
If for no other reason, how-
ever, the forest is fascinating
in winter because of the trees
themselves.

At this time of the year the
evergreens come into their own,
making pictures of beauty in
their dress of dark rich green

other snow and ice sports have a
great fascination for many and iustly
so, but there are other winter activ-
ities which should have their place
in the program. Awinter walk in
the woods is different from a walk
at any other time of the year. It
has a charm distinctly its own.

animal tracks, winter buds-await

the coming of cold weather hikers.

or with their blankets of snow. The hardwoods,
too, show off to good advantage. The beech now
best displays its smooth gray bark and delicacy
of outline, and the paper birches stand out in
fairy whiteness. The oaks rise somber in their
mantle of red brown leaves, while here and there
in the winter woods the holly delights us with
its crown of shiny green leaves and red berries.

Tree Study on Winter Hikes

Perhaps one of the first things noticed about
trees on a winter woods excursion is the differ-
ence in their shapes, or outlines. Some may be

regular, others extremely irreg-

Skating, skiing, tobogganing and “lar- some trees Stand very

straight, while others are droop-'
ing and graceful. And, too, all
trees do not branch alike. Some
have straight trunks extending
upward to the tip, with branches
growing out from the sides;
others have a main stem that
divides into numerous large

605

(:00

branches. The former are
said to be excurrent and the
latter deliquescent. The de-
liquescent form is most com-
mon among hardwoods, while
most of the conifers, or ever-
greens, are excurrent.

Another feature of trees
very noticeable in winter is
the bark, which is especially
interesting because it' is so
varied. It differs widely in the
various species, on old and
young trees of the same spe-
cies, and even on the branches
and trunk of the same tree.
On some trees it is hard and
smooth, like that of the beech;
on others, such as white ash,
it may be deeply furrowed.
On the shagbark hickory the
bark separates into loose
strips, while the bark of paper
or canoe birch, peels off into
thin papery layers. Bark oc—
casionally becomes ridged and
corky, like that of the yellow
poplar or tulip tree, and the
cork elm.

The color of the bark is fre—
quently very distinctive; for
instance note the white,br0wn,
pink, and yellow of the dif—
ferent birches. The white oak
gets its name from its light
gray bark. Another tree with
a distinctive bark is the syca-
more, or buttonwood, which is
one of the most easily recog-
nized and attractive inhabi—
tants of the winter woods. Its
bark is gray and brown and
breaks off into thin brittle
plates, giving the tree a
mottled eHect.

Some trees develop thorns
on their stems and branches.
The honey locust is one of
this sort. It has also another
characteristic, very noticeable
in “inter, which it shares
with a number of other spe-

FORESY ACTIVITIES

a.

l
| . .-*
_ it '5

Lo: -Illyclt‘a‘ L (minty, Calif.

He who travels unbeaten paths, who
goes where Nature has hidden her
winter wonders amid ice and snow,
will have glimpses of rare beauty.

 

dies, in that its bean-like fruit
may cling to its branches all
winter long. Some other trees
having this means of recogni-
tion are the red gum, syca-
more, catalpa, and the pau-
lownia. The yellow poplar
may also hold its fruit well
into the winter, and when the
seed is finally scattered the
empty seed cups remain stand-
ing upright on the tree.

One of the most interesting
features of the trees at this
season is the winter buds.
These buds are formed in the
summer during the growing
season and are found at the
tip of the twig or stem, and
along its sides. They contain
complete branches in minia—a
ture which develop in the
spring into a new crop of
twigs. If you open a bud in
winter, you will Iind the little
leaves and possibly a cluster of
minute flowers warmly tucked
away from the winter’s cold.
Winter buds vary greatly. In
shape they may be slender,
Flat, oval, pointed, or round.
They may be smooth, rough,
downy, or sticky; covered
with scales or naked; and they
may differ in color from pale
yellow to inky black. The
horse chestnut has a most dis-
tinctive bud. It is large,
brown, and covered with a
gummy substance. The red-
dish-brown buds of the beech
are lance-like and pointed.
The buds of the red maple are
rounded and red, while those
of the sugar maple are slen-
der, pointed and brown.

Sugar From Trees

In the very late winter, be-
ginning with the lirst warm
days that herald the coming
of spring, the sap begins to
stir in the trees, for the little

FOREST ACTIVITIES 607

root hairs growing at the tips of the rootlets re-
new their work of collecting water from the soil.
This water holds in solution various substances,
mostly mineral, which form a part of the tree’s
food supply, and is gradually drawn up to the
topmost twig, moving more rapidly as the tem-
perature rises and slowing up as it drops. This
movement of the sap continues all through the
growing season until the time when the trees
once more resume their winter sleep.

With the first fiow of the sap comes “sugar
weather,” that time of the year when the farmer
taps his maple trees for their sweet fluid. It be-
gins.in late February or March, and continues
from four to six weeks, or until the buds begin
to swell. If you live in a locality where maple
sugar and syrup are produced, it would be good
fun to pay a visit to a sugar orchard. There you
may see the tapped trees and the sap dripping
from a spout inserted in them into a bucket hung
beneath. The farmer may even let you help him
empty the buckets and take the collected sap to
the boiling house. Best of all he may generously

give you samples of his maple products. Although '

persons. living in .the Northeastern and other
northern States may seem to have a “corner” on
maple sugar and syrup, maple products are ob-
tained in commercial quantities in some southern
and middle western States, and in fact, may be
taken in any locality where the sugar maple or its
close relative, the black maple, is abundant.

Forest Study Clubs

Organization of a forestry club either of young
people or adults is an interesting community
activity. Meetings may be held once or twice a
month, an indoor meeting alternating with a field
trip. Early in the year is a good time to form a
club of this kind. The program may be begun
with a general survey of forests and forestry in
the United States or with a study of wood from
the forest to the finished product. If you live in
a wooded region, field trips may be made to the
forest, where Winter lumbering operations may
be in progress. It would also be interesting to
visit a sawmill. During the winter specimens may
be collected of the various kinds of wood found
in the locality, and they may be labeled and
mounted for exhibition purposes. Since winter
buds lend themselves to study and experiment,
the collection and observation of buds is another
good club project.

A forest study club can be carried on through—
out the whole year with activities varied for each

season. Information about how to form a for-
estry club and suggestions for club study are
given in “Forestry Clubs for Young People,”

" Miscellaneous Publication 45 of the Forest Serv-

ice, U. S. Department of Agriculture. This pub-
lication contains useful hints for leaders of 4-H
forestry clubs, school clubs, Boy Scouts, and
other recreation groups carrying on nature activi-
ties. It may be purchased from the Superin-
tendent of Documents, Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C., for five cents a copy.

‘ Forestry Dramatics

Another interesting way to present forestry
subjects in your community work is through the
medium of dramatics. Forestry playlets, masques,
or pageants require only very simple settings
which can be made by the persons taking part in
the performance. A booklet, Forest Songs and
Playlets, published by the State Forester at_
Salem, Oregon, contains two playlets, “The Trial
of Forest Fire,” and “The Camp Fire,” that are
easy to produce. The American Forestry Asso-
ciation published in some of its FOrest Week
material a pageant, “A Year in the Forest,” by
Viola Offut. Information about this pageant can
be obtained from the American Forestry Associa-
tion, 1727 K‘ Street, N. VV., Washington, D. C.
The same association has prepared a masque,
“The Forest Fire Helpers.” “A Masque of. Con-
servation,” by Constance D’Arcy 'Mackay, .is
somewhat more elaborate but will make an ef-
fective performance. This masque is found ‘in'
The Forest “Princess and Other Masques, by the
same author. The book is published by Henry
Holt and Company of New York. Of course a_
forestry or nature study group may write and
produce its own forest play. ' '

Forestry Songs

‘Nhy not learn some forest songs during the
winter evenings? Most people love to sing and
there are many forest songs that can be sung to
well-known tunes. Two such songs, “Made of
Wood,” sung to the tune of “America, the Beau-
tiful,” and “On Forest Land,” having the air of
“Maryland, My Maryland,” are to be found in
the Program for the Observance of Forest Week
(M—507I) prepared by the United States Forest
Service for the use of schools, clubs, and like
organizations. Copies of this folder may be ob-
tained free from the U. S. Forest Service, Wash-
ington, D. C. The booklet, Forest Songs and

(Continued on page 639)

Adventures -
in

Winter Sports

By RUBY M. JOLLIFFE

Superintendent Camp Department
Palisades Interstate Park

An initiation into the

ioys of winter camping

 

Courtny “Child IVeIfart”

o a multitude of people who have had happy
T and fortunate summer camping experiences

there is magic in the sound “winter camp-
ing.” To get' away in winter as in summer, to be
out-of-doors, to enjoy all the rare pleasures
which winter time in the woods offers—that is
the hope and ambition of good summer campers.
To others this picture brings a shiver, a vision of
half-cooked foods, smoky fires, cold rooms and
shivery nights, with the wind singing—or is it
whistling—through the cracks in the walls and
snow sifting in beneath the doors! It is unfor-

tunate when a would-be enthusiast has the latter
experience.

The Art of Winter Camping

Winter camping is an art to be learned like any
other art' and requires patience, technical skill,
good sportsmanship and, to a certain degree, en-
durance. If the first three requirements are ful-
filled it will not be an endurance test but a test of
skill and of adaptability, and winter camping will
become one of the most interesting and satis-
factory of all sports. One should be as comfort—
able in a winter cabin as in a summer camp. To
be so one must know a few simple things—how
to find and cut wood to start a fire in a stove or

608

Skating—skiing—tramping over snowy trails—
and then the grateful warmth of the camp fire!

fireplace or out of doors; how to tend these fires;
how to prepare simple but nourishing food with
the least expense of energy; how to buy for the
meals so as to have enough but not too much;
and how to organize the party to equalize the
work and keep the machinery hidden but
smoothly running. Often in a camping party over
a winter week-end some one more experienced
than the rest in the culinary art is doomed to stay
all morning or afternoon indoors to fuss over
meals and tend fires while the others spend their
time working up an appetite. They blow in, fresh
and rosy, to exclaim to the volunteer cook, “Oh,
you missed it!” Or sometimes no one stays in to
tend the fires and to cook and every one comes
back to dead fires, cold cabins, and unattractive,
raw foodstuffs, which no magic has prepared. A
happy medium keeps every one happy. Camp
should be kept clean and the meals should be
well cooked, but the work so planned that each
one does his or her share and does it cheerfully
and happily. If duties are properly assigned—
hauling water, tending fires, cooking, cleaning up
and burning garbage—there will be no drones

ADVENTURES IN WINTER SPORTS 609

and no queen bees in the hive. When this art of
winter camping is learned, there should be a
maximum amount of fun and a minimum amount
of drudgery.

For the thorough enjoyment of outdoor sports,
it is essential that some time and thought be put
upon the question of clothing for winter. Keep
warmth and comfort in mind, but do not forget
that camp clothes can make or mar. There is no
reason why they should not be chosen with a
view to color, neatness and attractiveness, just as
city clothes are chosen. The modern, bright-
colored ski costumes are attractive on some fig-
ures ; .so also are knicker suits, with fiannel shirt,
cap, leather coat, Windbreaker or heavy sweater
in contrasting color. Wool hose are essential and
should be terminated by low heeled, comfortable
sport shoes. A five inch shoe protects the ankles
and is less cumbersome than the high shoe. Crepe
soles are very satisfactory and in any case the
heels must be low to avoid accidents. There is a
waterproof shoe on the market—a combination
of rubber sole with leather top—which, however,
is rather cumbersome. The regular hiking shoe
can be treated with various preparations or with
paraffin and oil and be made fairly waterproof.
The danger with these methods is that ventilation
is apt to be entirely cut off
from the foot.

Then Comes the Fun!

And now for the real fun
outdoors. Perhaps the most
popular of the outdoor sports
and one of the most thrilling
is tobogganing. It can be en—
joyed by any one who will
observe a few simple rules
of common sense and safety,
and avoid foolhardy attempts
at showing off. One would
think that 'the thrill of the
descent would be more than
counteracted by the long
trail one has to climb to the
top of the hill, carrying a
toboggan; but evidently this
is not so, for again and
again the trip up and down
is made.

The art of snow—shoeing
is soon learned and then
there is great sport in store,

 

C ourtesy “Park: and Recreation”

especially when the snow is deep and light and
the trails in the woods aremost alluring. To en-
joy this sport shoes at least five inches high and
with low heels must be worn. Snow—shoes must
be properly adjusted, and once the stride is
learned, the overlapping of shoes as you walk and
the proper‘way to turn around, you are ready to
take a good hike in the woods. Of course here
many difficulties will be encountered such as go-
ing up and down hill and over rocks, but if there
is suflicient snow, lots of pleasure can be had in
a snow-shoe tramp.

Somewhat similar, but with additional thrills
in hilly country, is skiing. Once the level tracks
on cross country runs have become easy there are
always the tantalizing delights ahead of bigger
and better hills to conquer. Very few amateurs
ever aspire to the high ski jump, but whether one
succeeds in this or not, there is a fascination in

watching real skiers as they make the high jumps.

Bob-sledding is exhilarating, too, especially
where just the right hills are found. Bob—sled
racing has all the feverish excitement of other
perilous races. Once you are off—away you go.
It’s great!

Skating requires the most practice and once it
is learned the bumps and
shocks that tire you out
are forgotten in the delight
of perfect rhythmic exer-
cise. Those who have always
skated on 'indoor skating
rinks have yet the greatest
joy to look forward to—that
of skating over the smooth
surface of a lovely mountain

' lake, no traffic to steer
through, only silent, snow-
clad hills round about. N oth-
ing in the world of sport is
more invigorating and re-
creative. Skating requires
good personal equipment.
Skates must fit well, be mod—
erately sharp and should be
bought with comfortably
fitting shoes. Wool stockings
should always be worn and
if a second pair is worn—
skating socks for instance—
they should be a little larger
if both pairs are of wool.

610 ADVENTURES IN WINTER SPORTS

In buying skating shoes, try them on over the
exact weight sock you intend to wear.

A All winter sports to be enjoyed must be en-
tered upon enthusiastically and fearlessly, though
not in a foolhardy manner. The element of ad-
venture gives zest to childhood’s games and this
adventure into the winter woods under winter
skies, amid snow-covered trees, is an adventure
full of mystery and fun, equal to that of any
other season. For those who do not fancy these
more or less technical sport's, there remain the
tramps afoot over the trails which have changed
so completely since the summer sun tried to peek
through the leafy branches of the trees. Now the
views are different, bigger, more magnificent, and
every step tells of heretofore undiscovered
charms and seemingly new country. Here and
there in the freshly "fallen snow wee woodfolk
have scampered and a battle or a party among
them can be traced by their little footprints. Here

and there a long thin line indicates the tail of a'

field mouse dragging between his legs as he
scampered"into his hiding 'place. Here are a few
feathers and nearby the single footprints of the
wary fox as he stole up on his prey. The bunny’s
peculiar marks suggest a moonlight sonata or a
waltz with the fairy folk.

At New York’s Winter Playground

One of the most p0pular winter playgrounds
near New York is Bear Mountain. This is in the
central part of the Harriman State Park, and
here are provided the facilities for all kinds of
sports. Toboggans, skiis, snow-shoes and bob-
sleds may be rented. There are twin toboggan
slides down the side of Bear Mountain, ending
on the wide playground, and parallel slides which
run onto Hessian Lake, where an ice-rimmed
runway guides traffic on the ice. Skiis may be
used across-country or on two types of jumps—-
one built for experts and one for ambitious
amateurs. Several times during the winter tour—

naments are held for state and interstate cham-
pionships, which provide much interest and ex-
citement for sport-loving visitors. As early as
Thanksgiving Day the large covered skating rink
is open to the public for a small fee. The ice is
to be depended upon in all weathers and skating
usually continues through the month of March.

Most of the people taking part in these sports
or watching them are guests at the Bear Moun-
tain Inn, where good accommodations may be
had overnight and where meals are served at all
hours. Others come just for the day, since the
Park is easily accessible over first-class automo-
bile roads and also by West Shore Railroad,
where special rates are offered for week-ends.
But those who are experiencing real winter camp-
ing are housed in cabins some miles from Bear
Mountain. Many of the summer camps have
cabins built for winter use and the organizations
renting these from the Commission are privileged
to use them during the winter. Last year over
thirty such camps were open during the cold
season. In addition, the Camping Department
maintains three furnished cabins which are rented
for week-ends at reasonable rates to small camp-
ing groups. These campers may come in to Bear
Mountain for winter sports, but they generally
prefer to use the toboggans, skiis, and snow-
shoes supplied at the cabins on the less crowded
hills and in surrounding woods, and to skate on
the open lakes.

It has been interesting to watch the develop-
ment of winter camping since it was started in the
Park ten years ago by the Camping Department,
without regular toboggan slides or skating rinks.
It has grown by tremendous leaps and bounds
until now the Park is open winter and summer.
and is making it possible for city pe0ple to enjoy
its lakes, streams, hills and woods during all
twelve months of the year.

Winter Camping in California

Through the Department of Playground and
Recreation of Los Angeles, California, winter
week-end outings are arranged to Camp Seeley
for the industrial groups organized by the De-
partment. The camp, located in the San Ber-
nardino Mountains seventy-five miles from Los
Angeles, is on a slope where the snowfall is
usually heavy throughout the winter, making

winter sports possible. Tobogganing, skiing, sled-
ding, snowshoeing and other winter sports make
the outings very popular. The cost of accommo-
dations is nominal. Bus transportation for round
trip is $2.50; a charge of $1.50 is made for three
meals, while 50 cents is the cost of overnight
lodging in a cabin, making the total cost $4.50.
Campers bring their own blankets and towels.

 

Courtesy Bureau of Recreation, Chicago Board of Education.

If you haven’t real skis, barrel staves will
provide even more fun for you and everybody!

There's a thrill 'in winter sports

which you'll find in nothing else.

HAT are cities doing in the promotion of
W winter sports? Growing interest in this
phase of the recreation program is neces-
sitating increased emphasis on providing facilities,
and rinks and toboggan slides, meets and winter
‘ sports weeks are growing in number wherever the
climate permits.

Two Hundred Rinks in Detroit

The Department of Recreation of Detroit has
about two hundred skating rinks scattered
throughout the city on school grounds, park
grounds, playgrounds and public property. In
many instances the people of the community throw
up the banks, the Department of Recreation Hoods
them, and the people themselves clean the snow

from the ice after heavy snowfalls. This plan has
been made possible through the cooperation of
the Fire Department which permits the Depart-

ment of Recreation to open fire hydrants and
spray the rinks.

AOn the Chicago School Playgrounds

Ice skating efficiency tests are a part of
the January-February program con-
ducted by the Bureau of Recreation,
Chicago Board of Education. Through
these contests an amateur who is medi-
ocre is given an opportunity to better her
ability on the playground ice pond with
the instructor acting as coach and timer.
Even the finished skater is interested in
her ability and likes to test her skill. All
age groups are eligible to compete. If
any individual succeeds in skating a given
number of yards in a given time or in a
given manner and performs the required'
figure skating, she is awarded a medal.

Ski jumping is another popular winter
sport. Two old barrel staves, two straps
and one red—blooded boy are the ingredi-
ents for this concoction of thrills, spills
and action! The sport is open to boys
under fifteen years of age.

There are also sled meets—one for.
boys and one for girls. This is one of the
most enjoyable forms of recreation for
children under ten and twelve years of age. The
event usually begins with a towing contest, fol-
lowed by a push and coast and the shuttle relay.
Snow modeling still has its place on the program
of the Chicago school playgrounds. The instruct—
ors judge the works of art and red, white and
blue ribbons are given the first, second and third
best modelers on each playgroundf

Oak Park's Ice Derby

Every year the Oak Park, Illinois, Playground
Board holds an inter—playground ice derby with
events divided into three classes for boys, girls
and young people between the ages of eight and
twenty-two. Elimination races are held on each
playground and the three winners represent their
grounds at the finals. The events include the
usual short sprints up to one mile for seniors,
backward skating, novelties and relays. Awards
of pins, medals and ribbons are given the win-
ners. All the municipal playgrounds are fiooded

611

612

for skating as soon as the weather permits and
there is a large attendance at the rinks. An ice
hockey rink on one playground provided for
inter-playground contests.

In New Haven's Parks

In New Haven’s park system natural water
areas and streams are utilized by damming and
by building dikes to form areas where ice hockey
may be enjoyed. The Park Department maintains
these areas to the extent of daily planning where
necessary, keeping all dangerous spots posted and
enclosed by r0ping the area off and keeping snow
off ponds. (This process is started within an hour
after a snowstorm and areas are always ready to
use within two hours of the storm.) For the
young men for whom ordinary skating offers too
little zest, special areas are roped off and natural
hockey rinks are formed.

The particular pride of New Haven’s winter
sports program is the municipal golf course which
has a most natural and beautiful setting with a
large brook twining in and out among the fair-
ways in the valley of the course. By the con-
struction of a large dam it was possible to make
the water area larger and to form a ten-acre lake.
A skate house, warming shed and refreshment
house have been constructed to accommodate 500
people at one time. Flood lights have been erected
so that night skating and hockey may be enjoyed.
The house, which is portable, serves as an equip-
ment storage plant in other seasons.

Another branch of winter sports under the
supervision of the Park Department is coasting
on nine coasting areas. At East Rock Park a
beautiful coasting slide is formed on one of the

bridle paths.

Duluth an Important Winter Sports
Center

Duluth offers facilities for winter play and
sports to suit all tastes. Among them are skiing,
skating, hockey, curling, tobogganing, snowshoe-
ing, hiking, ice boating snow modeling and dog
sled racing. All of these activities are within easy
walking distance from the heart of the city.

Over twenty municipal skating rinks are scat-
tered throughout the city, and Duluth also has
2,500 acres of wooded parks with 4,000 acres of
city park at its doors which afford fine terrain

for skiing, snowshoeing and tobogganing.

Duluth is fortunate in having a natural play-
ground in the heart of the city located in the

WINTER SPORTS

\

upper section of Chester Park. Here the devotee
of winter Sports will find a very fine field house
equipped with rest and lunch rooms, a check
room and a large fireplace. Within a stone’s
throw of the Field house are the skating rink, ski-
ing and snowshoe trails, a large ski slide and
four 6oo-foot toboggan slides.

One of the outstanding features of the Duluth
winter sports program is the wearing of appro-
priate winter costumes. These colorful costumes
lend a picturesque note to the landscape and are
worn during the whole winter by devotees of
winter sports.

Winter in Winnipeg's Parks

For the children of school age the Public Park
Board of Winnipeg provides twenty-two rinks in
various parts of the city located on vacant pro-
perty or on school grounds placed as near as
possible to the most thickly populated sections.
The average size of the rinks is 80 by 100 feet.
Shelters 30’ by 12’ are provided with a wood
burning heater. Where space permits toboggan
slides are erected for the smaller children. These
are built about 16 feet high and have an iced run-

way 200 feet long.

Minneapolis - A Happy Hunting Ground
for Winter Sports Devotees

This year the Park Board of Minneapolis is
operating fifty-three rinks on lakes and play-
grounds, with twenty-seven boarded hockey
rinks and sixteen small hockey rinks for boys’
practice games. Eight toboggan slides, especially
iced and kept in fine condition, are maintained in
four of the city’s larger parks. Five skiing slides
provide ample opportunity for the devotees of
this thrilling sport, and sliding hills are available
for small folks on the natural hills which abound

in the various parks of the city.

(-

A Ski Club in Dubuque, Iowa

Dubuque has a new ski jump with a recently
organized ski club to insure its use under the best
possible conditions. The club membership is open
to all interested in skiing. Dues are $1.50 per
year. This money will be used by the club to sup-
plement the facilities already provided by the city.
Use of the ski jump, however, is not conditional

upon membership in the club.

 

NOTE: For much of this material RECREATION is in-
debted to Park: and Recreation, December, 1931.

 

By E. F. MORGAN

Superintendent of Playgrounds
Ottawa, Canada

T'I‘AWA, CANADA, is operating twenty out-
door ice rinks this season, eleven of which
are for skating onlyand nine for hockey.

Three of the latter, located in neighborhoods
where there are not a sufficient number of hockey
teams available to justify their being used ex-
clusively for hockey, are used, part time, for
skating. Two of the nine skating rinks are one-
eighth mile tracks thirty feet wide at which all

the speed skating training and competitions are
held.

Types of Rinks

There are two different types of skating rinks
in operation. These may be termed the “rec-

tangular” of which there are seven and the “oval”
o f w h i c h
there are four
T h e rectan-
gular t y p e
varies in size
from 200 feet
to 250 feet
long and 80
to 90 f e et

 

In Ottawa there are two types of rinks. This
type has an outside area for general skating.

wide, the larger rinks being in localities where
the greatest patronage is found. On all of the
rectangular types of rinks a snow area about 80
to 90 feet long, IO feet wide and two feet high, is
left in the center of the ice surface. This con-
siderably decreases accidents due to the congre-
gating of loafers in the center of the ice, criss—
crossing and tag playing. It' also reduces the
work necessary to ice making and cleaning. Very
little use is made of the center in any case.

The oval types are those that are constructed
around the outside of a hockey rink. They are
30 feet wide, all-round, with the inside edge about
10 feet from the boards of the hockey rink. This
space is filled in with snow from the hockey rink.
The hockey rinks are 180’ by 80’ and are fenced
with four foot portable fencing.

Lighting and Equipment

There are two different types of lighting sys-
tems for the
rectangular
rinks. T h e
common type,
which is be—
ing gradually
dis c a r d e (1

here, consists

Courtesy Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Playground Commission Of four or

613

614 ICE SKATING RINKS

five strings of 100 watt lamps, four or five lamps
to the string, across the rink. A rink 200’ by 80’
requires twenty 100 watt lamps, five lamps to the
string. The new type, which we have found more
satisfactory and which costs less eventually, con-
sists of two 1,000 watt lamps in Duoflood, or
similar reflectors, at the center of each end of
the rink, about three feet from the outside edge
of the ice surface'on thirty foot poles.

The oval rinks, around the hockey rinks, are
lighted with six 200 watt Benjamin reflectors in-
stalled on the six poles which provide the light-
ing for the hockey rinks.

Portable dressing room buildings are erected at
each center, two buildings at each of the larger
skating rinks, (250’ by 90’), three at each loca-
tion where there are combination (oval) skating
and hockey rinks and one where there is a hockey
or skating rink only. These buildings, single sheet
shiplap, are built on 2 by 4 studding with double
pitched roof. A partition is erected eight feet
from one end of the buildings to provide a check
room and storage for coal, hose, shovels, scrap-
ers, etc. Each building is heated by one No. 15
and one No. IO Quebec heater.

Water services consist of two inch mains, re-
duced to one inch, with one inch three ply rub-
ber covered hose used for flooding. The general
maintenance equipment consists of one large 8’
by 4’ wide hard wood, iron shod scraper t0‘be
drawn by horses for removing heavy snow falls;
one steel scraper 4’ by 18” for each rink care-
taker, one snow shovel for each man (with as
many additional as circumstances warrant to
equip volunteer snow shovellers); one light
wood,'two man scraper 6’ by 3’; the necessary
number of 50 foot lengths of one inch hose for
flooding, water pails, coal scuttles and similar

equipment.

Administration

The skating hours are from 9 A.M. to IO P.M.,
weather conditions permitting. The hours from
6 to 8 RM. are reserved for children under 14
years of age who must be off the ice by 9 RM.
The two skating rinks that are constructed as
eight-lap tracks are reserved for speed skaters
from 5 to 7 :30 RM. every evening, and each rink
every alternate Saturday afternoon, for competi-

tors from 2 to 5 RM.

Two men are employed at each single skating
rink and hockey rink. Three men are employed

at the oval and skating rink combinations and
four men at the two combination hockey and
skating rinks, which are eight-lap tracks. (There
is more ice surface at the latter two combinations
than at the former).

At the time of writing there are 360 teams
registered for practice and game hours at the
nine hockey rinks. Thirty-six of these are en-
tered in the hockey leagues conducted by the
Playgrounds Department, in which there are
eight sections from Light Bantams under 85
pounds to Seniors under 150 pounds, all under
18 years of age. As the hockey season does not
open until January I, 1932, it is expected that
there will be 400 teams using the rinks this season.

The greatest success is derived from the opera-
tion of the playground leagues. The penalty
system in force severely punishes deliberate,
vicious, fouling and improper language. Sportse
manship is the keynote of all game activities con-
ducted by the Department, and the game is played
for the game’s sake. Championship teams are the
last consideration.

In the Chicago South Park System athletic
fields are conditioned for skating. As soon as
there are two inches of frost in the ground, or
within a few hours after a sudden drop in tem-
perature, men are on every athletic field, sprinkl-
ing either bare ground or sod with lawn sprinkl-
ers, frequently moved, to provide foundation ice.
The best conditions for use of sprinklers obtain
when the temperature is between IO and 15 de-
grees above zero. One man is assigned to about
six sprays to provide for constant change in the
spray locations. In this manner a foundations is
built up within 24 hours, and after the founda-
tion is laid two men are assigned to each hose to
finish off the surface by hand sprinkling. A hose
coupling is flattened to provide a nozzle, or into
the round end of the hose a fan-shaped block of
wood is wedged to fan out the stream. In the
judgment of the South Park oflicials the ice block
should be built up to a 3-inch thickness before
the area is turned over to the skaters.

With the weather below zero, South Park ex-
perience is that the building up of additional ice
by the flooding method is difficult, because sub-
sequent layers may not bond with the underlying
ice when they freeze as quickly as is the case at
such temperatures. From Parks and Recreation,

January, 1932.

Health Values

of
Winter Sports

Sunshine, safety and snow

make winter sports a'source of
both happiness and health.

Hand in hand with the enioyment°which
winter sports afford go other values.

Of these the health giving properties
of exercise out-of-doors are important.

 

VERY facility to provide outdoor recreation
for children should be utilized by munici-
palities during the winter, the Public Health

Service of the United States Government has de-
clared, in stressing the need for abundant sun-
shine in the development of the growing child.

It is of utmost importance that parents recog-
nize the need of outdoor play in winter when
short days limit the amount of sunshine and that
municipal authorities provide areas where chil-
dren may coast or skate in safety. The Service
recommends that as many hilly streets as are
necessary for the use of children be closed to
automobile trafiic when there is sufficient snow
for coasting. Such measures will protect the
motorist from slippery grades and confine the
children to safe areas, thus reducing accidents
to the minimum. Additional information was
made available as follows:

The importance of sunshine in child develop-
ment cannot be too strongly emphasized in our
present mode of life. Especially in the cities,
where an ever increasing number of families live
in apartment buildings and where the movement

Contesy Big Pines Recreation Camp, Los Angeles County

 

 

These young sculptors in the spirit of true art-
ists pass judgment on the work of their hands.

of trafiic renders our streets unsafe -for recrea-
tion, opportunities for outdoor play become more
and more limited.

In winter when sunshine is as necessary as at
other seasons, the situation becomes even more
diflicult. Besides the. shorter days, weather con-
ditions tend to discourage pleasure driving and
the number of outdoor games which can be
played at this season is fewer. In addition,
modern machinery makes short work of snow
covered streets and trach demands make fewer
streets available for recreation.

It is for this reason that no eEort should be
spared in providing suitable and safe areas for
recreation. Every community should survey the
facilities in its environs to determine what
grounds can be set aside for playgrounds.

Where ample facilities other than the streets are
available it may be more desirable to keep the
children off the pavements. In some communi-
ties the permanent playgrounds have been utilized
for winter sports by the construction of slides or
skating surfaces. Where the playground area is

(Continued on page 639)
615

 

Courtesy Gem'ral Binnie Company

At the hockey rink at Union College a system
of floodlighting has been effectively used.

Lighting for Outdoor Winter Sports

greatest recreational value

comes from outdoor play,
indulged in continually through-
out the year. In northern cli-
mates this play program naturally involves win-
ter outdoor sports. Such is our modern workaday
schedule that only during the evening or after
dark hours can many of the adult folks in our
communitites take part in these outdoor winter
recreations. Just at this point modern illumina-
tion comes to their aid.

IT is a proven fract that the

No doubt the most common winter sport—and
one very easily taken care of by the lighting en-
gineer—is ice skating. Municipal park lakes and
ponds, flooded tennis court space and other
similar areas are admirably suited to this sport.
Such areas can be effectively and inexpensively
illuminated by means of a few suitable flood-
lights, of preferably 1,000 watt capacity with dif-
fusing lenses, mounted some 25 to 30 feet high
upon poles adjacent to the skating area. A total

floodlighting load of from 1/20 to 1/30 watt per
square foot of objective area usually proves

616

By W. D’A. RYAN
General Electric Company

adequate for ice skating. Color
may be readily introduced for
special occasions by using col-
ored lenses or inserts with such
floodlights.

Ice hockey, as the competitive phase of skat-
ing, is becoming exceedingly popular in many
sections. The construction and maintenance of
the average outdoor rink need not be an expen-
sive procedure. In fact, such rinks are some-
times built over tennis courts, thereby utilizing
the floodlighting system for these two sports. A
higher intensity of well diffused illumination is
needed for satisfactory hockey play. Although
Hoodlights were employed in lighting the Union
College hockey rink shown in the picture, yet the
use of overhead, span—wire—suspended reflectors
presents another effective method of illuminating
such areas.

Tobogganing constitutes another form of win-
ter recreation, and these slides are in no way
difficult nor expensive to illuminate. At more
exclusive winter resorts a fee may be charged for
this sport, the lighting of such slides will be likely

(Continued on page 639)

 

An Experiment

in Drama
By W. D. CHAMPLIN

UR experiment in drama, conducted so suc-
O cessfully last year, was carried on mainly
as a demonstration of its need and practi-
cability from a strictly recreational point of View.
It was restricted to the fundamentals of organiza-
tion, training and production in the fifteen centers
maintained by the Bureau of Recreation which
has buildings and auditoriums equipped with
stages or gymnasiums in which
temporary stages could be set
up. It was limited also to the
indoor period of eight months,
from October to June.

The program conducted has
resulted in the organization of
the Recreation Dramatic League
composed of the principals and
dramatic directors of the center
for the purpose of conference
and study. .The Recreation
Center Players was formed

William D. Champlin, Chief of the
Bureau of Recreation, Philadelphia,
tells how Elizabeth Hines Hanley,
drama specialist on the staff of the
Philadelphia Playgrounds Associa-
tion, developed drama in connection
with the recreation centers main-
tained by the Bureau. Mr. Champlin
is enthusiastic over the success of

the experiment in his city and wants
to see it extended still further.

“The Heart of a Clown"—a play which is frequently
given by recreation groups in their drama programs.

from the same group for the purpose of learn-
ing the technique of acting and play production
by the practical method of participation in per-
formances as actors and stage workers. Clubs
and groups have also been organized in the cen-
ters, the members ranging in age from eight to
twenty-five, and these members participated in
seventy-eight plays. Eleven hundred players took
part as members of the casts, while thousands
of people enjoyed the performances as specta-
tors. Some of the Christmas plays were re-
peated three times in order to accommodate
the large number of children and parents Wish-

ing to see them.
A retaining institute for dramatic directors
and others interested in play

production was held bimon-
thly on Saturday morning
from ten to twelve o’clock.
The attendance was nearly
always up to the total en-
rollment of thirty—two, and
frequently over that. As the
method of training was that
of “learning by doing,” a num-
ber of plays of different types
were cast for rehearsal and
informal presentation, with

(Continued on- jzagc 640)
617

A Washington Party

A February 22nd party which will
take us back to the l8th century

with its "elegance and courtesy."

ACH of our holiday parties has a distinct tra-
ditional flavor that helps the hostess plan
her evening and brings the guests together

in the spirit of anticipation that is so necessary
to every successful social event. The Washington
birthday party has a tradition of charm. It is the
time to get out powdered wigs, sew fresh ribbons
on the panniered gowns, re-gild the buckles on
the satin breeches, and step back into the lei-
surely old days when elegance and courtesy held
sway. In the hands of a skillful leader the party
may be a festival of Colonial America in which
sentiment and charm mingle with gayety. To ac-
complish this, the guests should come in costume.
These costumes need not be expensive. Many of
the pattern companies publish patterns for fancy
dress occasions and these nearly always include
Colonial costumes.

The master of ceremonies is an important per-
sonage in all the accounts of Colonial parties that
have been left us. He introduced the guests, or-
ganized the contests, and kept everyone in good
spirits. There is a story of a Philadelphia colonel
who always acted as master of ceremonies and
took his position so seriously that he was once
heard to reprimand a young lady who forgot her
turn in a country dance. “Give over, Miss,”
he called loudly, “Take care what you are about!
Do you think you came here for your pleasure ?”

Guests attending smart parties given during
the winter months in New York in the eighteenth
century arrived in sleighs which, one narrator
tells us, “fly with great swiftness and some are so
furious that they turn out for none except loaded
carts.” Dancing was the chief diversion, we are
told, but there was also a good deal of card play-
ing and another writer records that he “played
button to get prawns for redemption,” an amus-
ing description of our “Button, Button.” Back-

618

gammon was in high favor and the
family possessing the game may be sure
that they are celebrating in the best
tradition.

What the W'ashingtons were wholly in
accord with the sociability of their time is shown
in a note that George Washington penned in 1796
to the gentlemen of Alexandria when he and his
wife found themselves too advanced in years to
attend the assembly. “Alas! our dancing days
are no more. We wish, however, for all who
have a relish for so innocent and agreeable an
amusement, all the pleasure the season will
afford.” i

We may take this kindly wish for ourselves
and when the time comes for celebrating the
birthday of the father of our country, let us put
on our old-fashioned dresses and make the most
of “all the pleasure the season will afford.”

The Invitations

You may wish to invite your guests in the man-
ner of one Colonial gentleman addressing an-
other. The following invitation would be an ap-
propriate one:

My dear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I hope to have the honor of your presence at a
rout to be held at my home on the evening of
February 22nd. I shall be pleased to have you
as my guest on this merry occasion and shall be
grieved if any mischance arise to prevent your
appearance at the festivities.

With felicitations and respects to yourself and
your lady, I have the honor to be,

Your devoted servant,

O O I O O O O O O I O O O I I I I I O O O O 0

February . ., I7. .
The following simple announcement printed on
a card decorated with Colonial silhouettes would
be attractive:
Please come
To my home
On February 22nd
At . . . . o’clock
To help celebrate
George VVashington’s birthday
In the manner of Old Virginia.

A WASHINGTON PARTY 619

 
 
   

Charm and gayety mingle in

a festival of colonial days.

Courtesy George Washington Bi-centennia! Commission

Or the following verse might be used:
A belle’s a belle, a beau’s a beau
No matter what the year—
Whether they go in powdered wig
Or fashion’s latest gear.
Pray don’t be loathe to hide your charms
In clothes of other days——
The belles of old Virginia
Might show us cards and spades!
So put the quaint old costumes on
And join us at our party.
With old colonial pastimes
We’ll make an evening hearty!

The Decorations

Gather together as many candelabras or can-
dlesticks as are obtainable and put red, white and
blue candles in them. Place them with a thought
to the safety of the guests and, if possible, use
no other light. Arrange red and white carnations
in blue or crystal or pewter bowls. If it is prac-
tical, have the room simply furnished with sev—
eral mirrors to refiect the candle light and the
costumes.

Delightful traditions cluster about the
period in which George Washinton lived.

The Party

As the guests assemble they are asked to take
small folded pieces of paper from baskets, “bil—
lets, folded up containing each a number,” as
some gentleman of colonial times described them,
The ladies take their billets from one basket, the
gentlemen from another, as they have correspond-
ing numbers which enable them to find partners
for the grand march. Each note contains a ques-
tion in addition to the number. The questions
may be related to the colonial period or not as
the hostess wishes. When the entire party has
assembled, the ladies take places on one side of
the room, the gentlemen on the other. The mas-
ter of ceremonies calls a number. The lady and
gentleman having the number come forward and
are introduced. ~The first couple called lead the
grand march. Several other couples are intro-
duced just for the sake of repeating an old
custom. After that the partners find each other.
They fall in line and the march begins. Marches
and other authentic colonial music can be found
in “Music from the Days of George Washing—
ton,” which can be obtained from the United
States Commission for the Celebration of the

620 A WASHINGTON PARTY

'l'wo Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of
George \Vashington, \Vashington Building,
\Vashington, D. C. The march should end in
a circle. The ladies step to the inside of the
circle and face clock-wise. The gentlemen stand
on the outside of the circle facing counter-
clock—wise. Then a march begins and the two
circles start to move. The music suddenly
stops and the lady must ask the gentleman
who has stopped opposite her the question on
her slip. They are allowed a few seconds to
talk, and then the music begins and they move
on until the next pause when the gentleman
asks his question of the lady opposite whom
he finds himself. Repeat as often as desired.

If the party is a large one, it is suggested
that the guests be divided into groups for the
games. Even in the case of a small party this
gives everyone a chance to have something
to do most of the time. The division may be
made by distributing equal numbers of red,
whit; and blue ribbons to the guests during
the grand march. If desired, artificial flowers

or boutonnieres may be used in place of
ribbons.

Games

Do Y on Remember? The guests are given
pieces of paper and pencils and allowed five
minutes to write the names of as many revolu-
tionary generals as they can remember. They
are then asked to write the names of the thir-
teen original colonies. Three minutes are al-
lowed for this. Following this they are asked
to make as many words out of the name \Vash-
ington as they can. Then scores are counted
and the person scoring highest is given a small

box of candy tied with red, white and blue
ribbons.

Yorktown Relay. Lines form with a small
table or chair about eight feet from the head of
each line. A vase or flag holder in which a small
Union Jack is placed is on the table. Beside
it is an American
flag. The leader is
given a sword cut
from cardboard and
gilded with radiator
paint. At a signal
he goes to the table,
takes the British Hag
out of the holder, in-
serts the American
flag, salutes it, and

For use in connection with the George Washington
Bicentennial celebration, the Community Drama Service
of the National Recreation Association has prepared,
in addition to this party, a play entitled "In the
Hearts oi His Countrymen," which follows Washington
through his boyhood and his career as general and
president. This play and other material appropriate for “9"5- Ch 3 i r 5 are

use during the Bicentennial may be secured at little
expense from the N. R. A.

hands his sword to the next man as he takes
his place at the rear of the line. An assistant
stands beside the flag to put the British flag
up again each time it is taken down. As many
lines as desired may be formed for this relay.
The losing groups must each perform a mili-
tary drill before the winners, who are entitled
to criticise them severely.

Beam" Conquest. Couples stand in a circle,
facing out. An extra man goes around with
a glove which he throws at the feet of one of
the men. The man must pick up the glove,
start running in the opposite direction and at—
tempt to get back to his place before his rival
can reach it, thus winning a partner for him—
self. The man who fails to reach the lady’s
side before the other, must take the glove and
repeat the game until he is able to win a
partner.

Liberty Bells. Small silver bells are distributed
among the guests and each is given a slip of
paper on which is written a question pertain-
ing to the Revolutionary period. The guests
circulate around trying to answer each other’s
questions. Every time a question is answered
correctly (the answer must be written on the
back of the slip) the answerer collects a bell
from the person asking the question. The
gentleman or lady having the largest collec-
tion of bells is given a prize. If it is a lady,
a paper fan would be appropriate. If a gentle-
man, the hostess might give him a snuff box
made by covering a match box with silver
radiator paint and labelling it “snuff.”

Revolutionary Tea. \Vhat did the Colonial
dames serve for tea? The guests are asked
to answer this question by examining a row
of tea cups in which various pungent food
stuffs have been put. Each cup is covered
with a small waxed paper, perforated. The
cups contain cinnamon, sage, licorice, celery
leaves, apple parings, bay leaves and any other
odorous herbs. Each
cup bears a number
and the guests write
th e i r decisions on
cards which have
numbers corre-
sponding to the cups.

Philadelphia Flirta-

placed in a circle
and the ladies are

A WASHINGTON PARTY 621

seated, leaving one chair unoccupied. The
gentlemen stand behind the chairs. The man
having the empty chair tries to attract a lady
to his chair by a flirt of his handkerchief, a
nod or a discreet wink. The lady attempts to
leave her chair and the gentleman standing
behind her attempts to prevent her. If she
can escape, her former partner goes on with
the game.

lVas/zington Curtsy. Three men are placed
about ten feet apart, forming a triangle. A
tricornered hat is placed on one of the men
and he is named “\Vashington.” A girl is
placed in the center of the triangle, blind-
folded, turned about three times and told to
advance eight steps and curtsy to \Vashing—
ton. The girl who succeeds in doing this is
rewarded with an old fashioned nosegay.

Silhouettes. A sheet and strong light are ar—
ranged for shadows. A life—size silhouette of
Washington is cut from black paper and hung
on the outside of the sheet. The men are asked
to go behind the sheet and cast their profiles
in shadow. If the guests are not in costume,
the hostess should provide a wig. The man
whose profile bears the closest resemblance to
Washington Wins one of the swords that were
used in the relay.

The Prettiest Maid. Contests of various sorts
were beloved of our forefathers. In the “pro—
posal for festivities on occasion of horse races
on St. Andrew’s Day” it was suggested that
“‘a pair of handsome shoes be danced for” and
“a pair of handsome stockings of one pistole
value be given to the handsomest young
country maid that appears.” So it would not
be inappropriate to ask the guests to vote for
the prettiest woman present, her costume, of
course, being chiefly taken into account. This
should be done by secret ballot and a box pro—
vided for the votes.

Ballads. A pleasant interlude after the games
might be furnished by having a gentleman or
lady sing some of the old songs of the day.
These may be chosen from the government
pamphlet mentioned elsewhere in this bulletin.
One of the proposals listed for the St. Andrew’s
Day festivities read “that a quire of ballads
be sung for by a number of songsters, all of
them to have liquor sufficient to clear their
wind pipes.”

The Reel. The Virginia reel, or Sir Roger de
Coverly, was a favorite dance in colonial
times. The following adaptation of the reel is

simple to do and can be danced very success-
fully under the direction of a capable master
of ceremonies:

Arrange the dancers in parallel lines, the
ladies on one side and the gentlemen on the
other, facing one another. Everyone dances
at once in [this version, the lines coming to—
gether and partners meeting in the center for
the following steps.

1. Lines step to the center, bow and step
back to place.

2. Lines step to the center and partners
swing around right hands.

3. Lines step to the center and partners
swing around left hands.

4. Lines step to the center and Do—Si—Do
(Arms folded high. Go around each other
and back to place.)

5. The partners opposite each other at the
head of the line now lead the figure. Take
hands across and slide down between the
lines and back.

6. Swing partner with right arms locked.

7. Swing first one of partner’s line, left el—
bows locked.

8. Swing partner — right elbows.

9. Swing second one of partner’s line, left
elbows locked.

10. Swing partner.

This continues until leaders have swung
each one of partner’s line. Leaders then dance
down center, hands joined, to their places at
the heads of their own lines. Each one heads
his own line, turns away from center and skips
to the place of the last couple. in the group.
There they join hands, forming a bridge under
which all pass with partners. First pair take
position of head couple, and the original first
couple remain where they formed a bridge,
taking position of last couple.

The reel is started from the beginning now,
and is continued until all persons have been
at the head of the lines. Partners for the reel
are‘ found by matching small silhouettes of
Martha and George Washington which have
been cut in two.

Refreshments

Refreshments seem to have been of a fairly
hearty nature in the good old days of early
America. Turtle-frolics were held whenever
a boat load of the delicacy arrived in New

(Continued on page 640)

A Valentine Party

Old traditions are set aside, and
St. Valentine becomes ultra-
modern in this delightful party.

'1‘. VALENTINE’S DAY has always been a day
for reminiscing and romancing; a day of
old loves, old laces and old charm. But even

old things lose their mellowness when dragged
too often from their resting places. So on this
St. Valentine’s Day let us not disturb the ghost
of yesterday. Instead, let’s swing the pendulum
the other way—say fifty years—and celebrate
not’ in the fashion of our grandmothers, as we
are accustomed to doing, but rather as our grand-
children might.

Before planning such a celebration it will be
necessary to consider the events which modern
prophets foretell, some of them very strange in-
deed! They prophesy that we shall work less
and play more; eat vitamins concentrated in
sugar coated pills; fly airplanes of our own, or,
more precisely. Hy our own autogiros. The sages
say that with a continuing increase of population
there won’t be enough names to go around so
we’ll be tagged with numbers instead. Perhaps
this idea seems too far fetched, but' then you
must remember that even the most conservative
prophesies of a century ago which are realities
now were laughed at then. If you are still skep-
tical, make a visit to one of the great department
stores in New York City during the Christmas
holidays. Here harried clerks respond like auto-
matons, not to names of Mr. Smith or Mr.
Jones, but to calls of H—24, 8—63, etc. So it
seems that whether we like it or not, the future
is going to rob us of the dignity of family heri-
tage and make the history of the human race
look like one big calendar pad.

622

in I982

'By MARY J. BREEN

National Recreation Association

Invitations to a party as different as this
Valentine Party is should warn your guests what
to expect so they will not be taken too much by
surprise. Some such invitation as the following
might be appropriate:

Announcing that I’ve planned a party
To which you’re bid with welcome hearty.

We’ll celebrate in a manner gay,
But not, I warn, in the staid old way.

\Ve won’t regale old loves and laces,
Instead we’ll picture future faces.

The grand occasion ?—I didn’t say?
You must have guessed—St. Valentine’s Day.

The colors of the decorations should be the
conventional red and white, for even fifty years
from now they will probably symbolize affection
and devotion, the approved emotinos for a Val-
entine Party. Hang cardboard airplanes on the
walls and from the lights. From the ceiling sus-
pend a miniature airplane out of which float
cardboard hearts attached to red ribbon stream-
ers. In one corner of the room place a booth,
trimmed in red and white crepe paper. In the
center, ust below the corner, paste a large card-
board airplane decorated with hearts. Above
the center hang a sign. “Cupid’s Registration
Bureau.”

Cupid leads the guests to this booth as soon
as they arrive. He is a small child dressed in an
aviator’s costume with a quiver of arrows over
his shoulder to identify him. \Vhen the guests
register, give each lady a number combined with
the letter F which stands for female and each
man a number with the letter M for male. Men
and women with the same number—E23, M-23
—are partners for the evening. Also give each
of them fifteen candy hearts. But be sure to

A VALENTINE PARTY

warn them not to eat the hearts for they are to
be used in the first game of the evening, a very
informal one called:

Games

Valentine Greetings. In this game players try
to secure as many hearts as they can. They
greet each other with any two letters in this
manner: “Hello, C. U.” The one addressed must
respond immediately with two letters which will
finish a word such as “Hello, T. E.” If he can-
not finish the word with two letters he must give
one of his hearts to the person who addressed
him. If he doubts that a word of four letters
begins with the two letters with which the person
greeted him, he may challenge the originator of
the word. If he is correct in believing that the
other person is “faking,” he collects a heart; if
not, he surrenders two instead of one. The man
and girl getting the greatest number of hearts
are declared King and Queen of Hearts for the
evening. By way of suggestion the following
words are offered: DE-AR, DO-TE, NO-TE,
LA-CE, FA-CE, PI—NK, LO—VE, LA-DY.

In 1982. This is a
mixer to get everyone
acquainted and to tell
everyone present what
the party is all about.
The game is played in
a single circle with one
person in the center.
Everyone sings the en-
tire song. During the
verse players march in
a circle in time to the
music. During the cho-
rus the players stand
still while the one in
the center selects two
people from the circle.
On the third and
fourth lines of the
choru s these three
players skip around in
their own circle while
the people in the out- 8. one who woos

12 Italian coln

Side Cirde Clap hands- 13. before (poetical expr.)

If the group is large. 1%: 23:35::

the three players re-  3:3)!
main in the center for 22- to 'run
. 23. girl’s name
the remainder of the 24. Egyptian goddess

' 250 in
game: e a Ch SClectlng 26. mother (colloquial)

- 27. pronoun
two partners for each 23. Christmas (French)

 
  
 

 
 

m

   

HORIZONTAL

1. charge

3. falry

6. part of verb to be

7. abbr. for boy’s name

   
 
   
  
   

“EI-
ss-
uT T

MEI-H

623

chorus. If the crowd is small, two of the three

take their places in the circle while the last
one chosen remains in the center.

Since all the words to this song will be new,
give the players a chance to sing them together
before playing the game. Do not spend too much
time learning them, however. All know the tune
“Yankee Doodle” and can hum it if they cannot
sing the words.

I

Oh, nineteen hundred eighty-two
Is fifty years away.

But let’s pretend we see tonight
What fashions will hold sway.

II

Oh, cupid still matches hearts
As in the days gone by.

But cupid is an airman now
So courting’s done on high.

III

Now everybody has a number
No one owns a name

We spend our life in constant whirl
We ride by airplane.

IV

All our food’s now served
in pills

To save the housewife
worry

We have more time to play
and dance

And yet the password’s

hurry.
CHORUS

Partner, join me in the ring
Neighbor join us too

It’s some fun to 'be around
In nineteen eighty-two.

Heart Match. Cut
various sized h e a r t s
from different colored
p a p e r or cardboard.
Then cut them in
halves, p u t t i n g one
piece in a box for the
1. distant '
2. printer’s type g e n t 1  e  and the
4. note in musical scale other plece In a box
5. run away from ,

8. one in charge of books for the ladies. Before

9. conjunction .

10. sentimental missive the mUSIC Starts eaCh

11. declaim ,

14. repair man selects half a
heart from a box.
and each girl half a
heart from a second
box. While the music

16. in
is being played all

El“
n

 

 

VERTICAL

17. obtain
18. Greek God of Love
19. mammal

(324 A VALENTINE PARTY

march in circle about the room. Suddenly the
music stops. The men on the outside of the
circle remain standing while the girls move up
to the next partner. When the man meets the
girl who has the other half of his heart, the two
retire from the circle. The marching continues
until all have matched hearts.

A Valentine Crossword Puzzle. No doubt
fifty years from now people will be referring.
perhaps with some derision, to the days when
crossword puzzles were in vogue. Although
they are not so much the rage now as they were
a few years ago, they still manage to hold the
attention of a great many people. The puzzle
should be mimeographed so that copies can be
distributed to each player present.

Aviation. This is a variation of the old-fash-
ioned “Donkey Party,” in which the blindfolded
players had to attach a donkey’s tail in the
proper place.

A chart is hung on the wall or door at one end
of the room and on it are squares marked
“Paris,” “Cairo,” “Mexico City,” and other non-
stop destinations. The player who is “.It” is
blindfolded and given a cardboard cutout to rep-
resent a monoplane with his name written on it.
He is whirled till dizzy and sent staggering across
the room to pin his cardboard airplane onto the
chart. The furthest flight wins.

The chart should also contain a few squares
marked for places near the point of departure,
and all players landing on them should pay a
forfeit agreed on beforehand. Two chairs can
be placed, one on each side of the approach from
the start to the chart. If a player hits either one
of these chairs he “crashes” and pays a double
penalty.

Skyrocket. For this game the group is divided
into two and is lined up one on each side of the
room. One of the players in each group is told
to go down his line and to tell each player except
one to join in shouting “Sis, boom!” but to re—
main quiet on “Ah!” The leader then announces
that the group will send up a skyrocket. At a
signal everyone shouts “Sis, boom!” Only one
player on each team says “Ah !" Needless to say
the effect will be hilarious.

A Romance in 1982. Before the party, type—
written or mimeographed sheets containing the
following verses should be prepared. The last
word in the second line of each couplet is omit-
ted, however. The papers are distributed and

the players given several minutes to supply the
missing words:

F twenty-three was sweet and charming
And had a manner most alarming.

Coquettishly she’d flirst while dancing
\‘Vith swains who found her most entrancing.

One after one they begged her hand
But she'd have none in all the land.

At last they called her cold as zero
But she said she’d wait for her hero.

One day he came, M twenty-nine,
An aviator straight and fine.

He saw her once then started wooing,
Within an hour the two were cooin-g.

\Vithin a week the two were married,
Though perhaps they should have larried.

Their honeymoon was no more sane,
They took it in an airplane.

Their young friends wished them joy and health,
And happiness and fun and wealth.

The wise old folks with fear and awe
Told them of trouble they foresaw—

A life begun up in the air
Must surely end in grim despair!

But twenty-three and twenty-nine
Defied their fate with love dit'ine.

Their airy life they Filled with laughter
And they lived happily ever after.

Valentine Corsage. For this game you need
an old seed catalogue. Before the party, cut out
and number about thirty pictures of flowers.
Select a gardener from the group. He keeps a
slip on which is written the names of the flowers
and their corresponding numbers. This is used
to check the answers at the end of the game. The

-pictures of the flowers are passed around and

each one present writes down on paper the names
of the flowers. The correct names are read off
by the gardener. Each picture scores two points.
For names that are not wholly correct one point
is given. The person with the largest number
of points is the winner and is presented with a
Valentine corsage of either paper or real flowers.

Flashbacks of 1932

Since no Valentine Party would be complete
without some reminder of the past, the following
games suggestive of the good old days of 1932
or thereabouts are suggested:

Air Pocket. For this game chairs are arranged
in a circle. There is one chair less than the num—
ber of people playing. Chairs are far enough
apart to allow the players to march between

(Continued on page 637)

 

San Francisco Playground Commission

If you are equipping a community center you
will find a pool table almost indispensable.

The Organization of a Community Center

'The story of a community center
which is successful because it

is a part of neighborhood life.

HE Central Avenue Community Center of

Newark, New Jersey, has just passed

through a splendid year—ma year which meant
joy and pleasure for all who participated in the
program in any capacity. As the groups come
back for the new season they are voicing this
feeling by such expressions as, “It is good to be
back again” or “It feels like coming home.”
Practically every group that used the center last
year is returning this season, and its reputation
has become so widespread that many new groups
are joining it.

The History of the Center

The Central Avenue Community Center is lo—
cated at the Central Avenue school, an old build—
ing constructed in 1876, before the question of
the use of school buildings for recreational pur-
poses had arisen. No thought was given at the
time to the grouping together of the facilities
which the Recreation Department would use
most. As a result, the facilities are scattered
throughout the building from top to bottom,
from one side to the other.

By JACOB W. FELDMAN

Recreation Department
Board of Education, Newark, New Jersey

The center was opened on November I, 1930,
and when the winter season closed in May, 1931,
there were forty—four different groups using the
center as a meeting place. Because of the scope
of the program offered the center had become an
integral part of the community in a period of
seven months.

The center is located about one mile from the
center of the business district of Newark on one
of the city’s main thoroughfares. In its immedi-
ate vicinity there are small business houses and a
number of factories. The houses in which the
people live are rather poor. There are a great
many different nationalities represented among
the members of the center, the prevailing races
being the Italian and Negro, with a sprinkling
of Greek, Polish, Irish, English and other
nationalities.

The economic condition of the people in the
district is not good. The Board of Education re—
port telling of the amount of money collected and
distributed in the various schools for relief pur—
poses shows that the Central Avenue center is
second in the amount of money disbursed.

625

626 ORGANIZATION OF A COMMUNITY CENTER

'H

The center is open on_ two nights a week, Tues-
days and Fridays, until eleven o’clock. On the
other nights it is open until nine unless there is
some special event taking place. A playground
is run in connection with the center, which is
open every day from three to nine P. M.

The staff at the Central Avenue center con-
sists of three workers, one of whom leaves at
nine every night, the other two remaining until
eleven on Tuesday and Friday nights. With this
small staff the question of how to protect the
center property is a very important one. There
seemed to be two possible solutions: (I) to try
to police the building, and (2) to put the re-
sponsibility of safeguarding
the property on the shoul-
ders of the people who use
it. We decided upon the
second method, and mem-
bers of the center have
proven themselves worthy
of the trust. Some even-
ings there are as many as
fifteen or sixteen groups
present with a membership
of about 250. In spite of
these large numbers no
material damage has been
done to the building. This
is a record of which
the center is indeed
proud, proving that
if people are trusted.
and given responsi-
bility they will re-
spond to that trust.
‘ A demonstration

of the effectiveness
of the plan of plac-
ing responsibility
came at Christmas.
About two weeks
before the holidays the teachers and pupils began
to decorate their rooms for Christmas. During
the entire period that the decorations, which were
fragile 'and easily broken, were in the rooms, all
of the community center groups met as usual and
conducted their activities without doing any
harm to the decorations. ‘

Club Organization

W'e have found that the organization of activi-

ties on a club basis has helped greatly in the

 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

The San Francisco Playground Commission is pro-
moting boxing in some of its community centers.

problem of discipline. It is a much simpler mat-
ter from a point of view of center administration
to develop group responsibility than individual,
for a club, in order to maintain a clean record,
will be careful to see that the individual members
live up to the standards set. If a rule is broken
the problem is put up to the club which may take
the punishment as a group or make the guilty
individual assume the responsibility. The clubs,
we have found, inflict a more severe punishment
than would the school officials.

There are very few rules of conduct that the
clubs are asked to observe; the fewer the rules,
the more responsibility the club has to assume.
Each club looks upon the build-
ing as its club house and realizes
that if the facilities are abused
their use will be prohibited. Vis-
itors are greatly impressed by
the high standard of behavior
and the courtesy shown by the
- k members to their group. The

splendid conduct of the people
has helped us greatly in securing
the support of teachers and jan-
itors and reconciling them to the
use of the center’s facilities. The
‘ center has been very fortunate
in having in the principal of the
building, Mr. Ben-
jamin C. Miner, a
firm supporter whose
cooperation at all
times has been of the
greatest assistance.

Each club has one
or two predominat-
ing inte rests in
which all the mem-
bers share. Indi-
vidual members,
however, have other
interests which the club does not satisfy, and ac-
cordingly the center has developed certain activi-
ties with a general appeal which draw members
from all the clubs. These include glee clubs,
choruses and social dancing. This type of activ-
ity has had the effect of developing loyalty to the
center and making the members feel they belong
to something bigger than their particular club.
It also creates a feeling of comradeship among
the clubs.

ORGANIZATION OF A COMMUNITY CENTER 627

Through developing the larger units of activity
the center is reaching the point where it will be
developed the center is able to put on a program
gram given by the members at least once every
two weeks. Because of the variety of activities
developed the center is able to put on a program
of almost any kind at a moment’s notice.

In developing a program of club and center-
wide interest it has been necessary to schedule all
activities so that there would be no conflict of in—
terests. The schedule has worked out very suc-
cessfully. No center-wide activity is scheduled
on Tuesday and Friday nights because these are
the meeting nights of the individual clubs, and as
far as possible nothing is allowed to interfere
with the club meetings. Clubs are assigned the
same room throughout the year, and this gives
them a feeling of having a permanent home.

Council Organization

In our city the program is developed as a
neighborhood program. No hard and fast pro-
gram is issued from the central office, but each
center must develop a. program that will best
serve its community. To find out what these
needs are a community council is formed consist-
ing of local leaders. This council is a ,most im-
portant factor in the success of the center. The
members of the Central Avenue Center Council
have devoted time and money to developing the
program. Its members serve as volunteer leaders
for some of the groups, and through them we
have been able to recruit other volunteer leaders.
This is very important in view
of the fact that most of our ac—

program at the center and it has been tremend-
ously encouraging to see the high types of activi-
ties for which the people have asked. They have
all been worth while; all of them would bring
credit to any community.

Activities

One of the first activities started was a sym-
phony orchestra. Two of our members, a young
Italian barber and an Irish policeman, both
enormously interested in music, had previously
attempted to form an orchestra but lacking a
place for rehearsals they 'had abandoned the ef-
fort. The center ottered its facilities, a leader
volunteered his services, and the orchestra is now
meeting every Friday night.

Last year there were two jazz bands meeting
every week at the center whose rehearsals fre-
quently lasted three hours, so greatly did the
members enjoy playing. For the younger chil-
dren we had harmonica bands and ukulele clubs
meeting every week.

The crowning event in the center’s musical
program last season was a music festival in which
twelve of the church choirs of Newark partici-
pated. The spirit shown by the participants and
the audience at this festival was remarkable.
There was no spirit of rivalry evident; each
group listened to all the others with the greatest
courtesy and the singing was of a high type.

This year the music program will be greatly
enlarged. The success of the first year’s pro-
gram made it possible to enlist the interest of the
Newark Music Foundation with
the result that this year there

tivities are conducted by vol-
unteers.

The council is the advisory
body, meeting monthly with the
director and assistant director
to discuss the problems of the
center. Every activity that the
Central Avenue Council has ad-
vised placing on the program
has been successful.

It was decided by the coun-
cil that no activity would be
started unless an individual or
a group expressed a desire for
it. The activity would then be
built around this individual or
group. This policy has been
followed in developing the

The part which community centers
can play in neighborhood lite; the
share which neighborhood people
themselves may have in determin-
ing policies and planning activities
are considerations of primary im-
portance to school and recreation
officials in their program For the
use of schools as community cen-
ters. Today these centers are taxed
to their capacity; in many cities
volunteers are being recruited as
leaders. And the recreation move-
ment Faces the challenge of Filling
with constructive morale—building
activity, the millions of idle hours
which the present situation has
brought into being.

Are your centers meeting the test?

will be a paid director for the
symphony orchestra.

A young men’s glee club,
meeting weekly, has been or-
ganized under the leadership of
a trained musician and a chorus
of mixed voices which is spe-
cializing in the singing of
spirituals. These groups will all
give concerts in the school au-
ditorium which, it is hoped, will
increase the appreciation of
music in the neighborhood and
create the desire on the part of
others to participate in some
form of music.

In drama the center has made
great strides. Last year there

628 ORGANIZATION OF A COMMUNITY CENTER

was only one dramatic group which during the
season gave a three-act play. This year there are
three adult groups which will give six or seven
plays during the season. The other clubs will give
some form of dramatic production during the
season, either alone or in combination with other
clubs.

There is a very active Home Nursing and
Hygiene Club which meets weekly under the lea-
dership of a graduate nurse who volunteers her
services. Last year this group, which is interested
in health education, arranged for a lecture given
by a representative of the State Department of
Health, attended by about 350 people. This Year
the club has arranged for a series of three similar
lectures. The group consists of middle—aged col-
ored women most of whom work during the day
and whose meetings consequently do not often
begin before nine o’clock.

Experienced dressmakers volunteer their serv-
ices to the sewing circle whose members learn to
make their own clothes and those of their chil-
dren. Very often these leaders donated cloth
when they knew the members could not provide
it and needed the clothes.

The debating club, composed of Negroes, last
season gave a public debate. One of the jazz
bands made up of Italians played at the debate.
This was the first occasion in the history of the
center that these two races combined for a joint
event.

In the manual training classes all types of
woodworking projects were conducted. Last year
. the Art Club did some interesting and surpris-
ingly good work in clay modeling, linoleum block
printing, plaster of Paris and drawing. A Boy
Scout and a Girl Scout troop have been or-
ganized, which are functioning very well.

Volunteers from the Newark Normal School
are in charge of the story telling groups.

Members of the center issue each month a
magazine of twelve pages of mimeographed news
on activities. Each cover is a linoleum block print
made by some member of the center from an
original drawing contributed by another member.

Last year the gymnasium program was very
limited as the center could have the use of the
gymnasium only one night a week. This year the
center will have exclusive use of the gymnasium
and each club will be given a three-quarter of an
hour period. A boxing and wrestling club has
been organized and an industrial basketball
league of fourteen has opened its season. There

is one open gymnasium class for young men who
do not belong to any club, and one night is set
aside for women’s activities. In all, twenty dif-
ferent groups use the gymnasium.

Social clubs flourish at the Central Avenue
Community Center. \Ve have ten such clubs for
young men and four for young women, all self-
governing. Five of the groups have social danc-
ing on Saturday nights, exceedingly well con-
ducted affairs. This year there will be about
twelve such dances. Last year a social dancing
club for young men and women was a great suc-
cess. This club met once a week for an hour. A
similar club will be organized this year. Several
of the clubs arranged all day outings and suppers
in the nearby country.

One activity has led to another as the people
have expressed a desire for new clubs. Their
pleasure in participation is reflected in the way in
which they are returning this year. At the present
time sixty—live organized groups are meeting
regularly at the center.

One Day’s Schedule

The variety of groups using the center on one
day will show something of the scope of the
program:

MONDAY

Jolly Good Timers. Colored girls. 12-14 years. Social
club with a volunteer leader. Meets from 3:30 to

4 :30 P. M.

Blue Jays. Mixed colored and Italian girls. Age
10-12. Handcraft, mostly sewing. Meets from 3:30 to
4:30 P. M.

Social Dancing Club. Italian girls. Age 14-16. Meets
from 4:15 to 5:00 P. M.

Boy’s Handcraft Club. Colored and white. Age
10-12. All types of handcraft, wood, paper and painting.
Meets from 3:30 to 4:45 P. M.

Social Dancing. Young men (-white). Age 16-24.
Paid leader. Meets from 7:30 to 9:00 P. M.

Editorial Staff. “The Centralia”—monthly magazine.
Staff meets twice a month. The magazine is a mimeo-
graphed publication consisting of from twelve to fifteen
pages. The cover is a linoleum Iblock print made by
a member of the center from an original drawing also
made by a member of the center. The staff is selected
from the different clubs. Each club appoints a reporter
who writes up the doings of the club. The editorial
and reportorial staff does all the work connected with

the Centralia.

Night Hawks. Colored boys. Age 12-15. Athletic.
Meets from 7:30 to 8:30 P. M. Has as adviser a col-
ored boy from one of the older clubs. Gymnasium from
3:30 to 4:30 P. M.

Kravcn. Italian girls. Age 12-15. Social. Meets
from 7:30 to 8:30 P. M.

ORGANIZATION OF A COMMUNITY CENTER 629

Junior Order Sons of Italy. One group from this
organization is interested in gymnasium work and comes
in from 8:20 to 9:20 P. M. Other members are inter-
ested in dramatics and are rehearsing a play in Italian
that they will give at the center. They furnish their own
leadership.

Beaver Athletic Club. Colored. Age 12-15. Athletic.
Meets from 7:30 to 8:30 P. M. Gymnasium Wednesdays
from 3:30 to 4:30 P. M.

White Eagles. Italian boys. Age 12-15. Volunteer
leader. Meets from 7:30 to 8:30 P. M. Gymnasium
Saturdays from 3:30 to 4:30 _P. M.

Girls’ Gym. Girls playing volley and dodge ball from
3:30 to 4:30 P. M.

Boxing. Open to anyone over 16 years of age. A
member of one of the older clubs,'who is a professional

trainer, has volunteered,his services to lead this group.
Meets from 7:20 to 8:20 P. M.

Open Gym. Open to anyone over 16. Participants
may do what they please as far as the type of exercise

is concerned. Meets from 7:20 to 8:20 P. M.

Delta Phi Alpha. Italian young women who have
invited some young men to help them produce plays.
High school and college graduates.

Future Plans

We labor under a number of handicaps in de-
veloping our program. The school has so large
an enrollment of day pupils that there is not a
single vacant room which can be set aside for use
as a club room furnished and decorated with the
articles which members of the group are making.
The facilities are scattered throughout the build-
ing, causing a waste in light and heat and making
supervision more difficult. The staff has no of-
lice and no place which it can call its own.

All of these problems are being solved in the
new school buildings which have recently been

erected in Newark and in which a very flexible
arrangement has been worked out. The facilities

‘ that are used most prominently are grouped on
the first floor and can be opened as a unit. Those

that are next in demand are on the second floor
and these, too, are opened as a unit. The build-
ing is so "arranged that opening one unit' does not
permit of access to the remainder of the building.

On the hrst floor of our new building there
will be a recreatiOn room the same size as the
gymnasium but with a lower ceiling. This room
will have a movable stage which will be used for
club plays. Other facilities include a combination
library and quiet game room, a “rough house”
room, girls’ and and boys’ shower rooms, two
play courts, a fully equipped kitchen adjacent to
the recreation room and a center office. These
facilities will be opened as one unit.

On the second floor there will be an audito-
rium, gymnasium, kitchen, manual training shop,
drawing room, kindergarten, a Binet test room
with benches (no lixed seats), a nurse’s office and
the principal’s ofhce. The building has been de—
signed so that this unit can be opened for use and
still be separated from the first floor and the
floors above it'.

Any recreation worker who has conducted a
community center in the old type of school can
easily see what a step in advance such an arrange-
ment of facilities represents. Such a center can
be directed much more smoothly and eliiciently
than a center in the old type of school. But ex-
perience has shown that even an old building may
be made to serve the recreational life of a
community.

Leisure a Moral Test

“We are not entirely certain of the ultimate
hours and days of labor that will prove desirable
for man. We are faced with something which
only a short time ago we vainly sought and prayed
that we might enjoy—and that is, greater leisure.
It would appear that the tendency through recent
years has been toward general reduction of the
hours of labor, such as in the steel industry,
where during the past ten years the hours have
been reduced from twelve to eight. These changes
follow, not upon an eEort or agitation to bring
them about but rather upon necessities like the
one in which we now find ourselves. In this pre-
sent situation the hours of labor and the day of
labor are lost sight of in the formula to distribute

among those who are customarily employed in a
particular establishment the work for which there
are orders. '

“But it may be inferred that we face a condi—
tion in which generally in the community there
will be more leisure. The question before us next
will be: How shall that leisure be employed? We
are confronted in this nation and in others with a
testing period. The moral fiber of the community
must either stand the strain of temptation accom-
panying greater leisure, or use it in such cultural
ways as to reinvigorate the individual, to expand
his life in many new directions. Failing this,
some believe, we must' slip into the depths of
despair and eventual disintegration.”—Myron C.
Taylor, in the New Y ork Times.

The Story of a Playground

How a "dump that the city has for
little children to play in" was

transformed into a playground.

HARTER STREET in the North End can be
found only accidentally. Directions are le-
gion. The winding lanes of early Boston now
built up closely with high tenements present an
unchartered sea to the unin-
itiated. If it rains and is Febru-

By EMILY BRIGHT BURNHAM

\Vhen it isn’t raining and it is possible to look
“toward that inverted bowl we call the sky,” in-
numerable windows shine down from the red
brick walls on this open space or “dump that the
city has for little children to play in.” “Someone
must be back of those windows,” argued the two
social workers wandering in the rain. “They each
represent a family, and what is more, there are
but ,few families in the North End tenements
without children.” A casual count gives two hun-

dred and ten windows that
overlook this dump. From each

ary, twilight comes at two
o’clock in the afternoon, just as
dusk “falls early in the moun-
tains. But suddenly in this
maze of narrow, crooked streets
and crowded dwellings comes
the light of day. On the right,
as one follows‘through an al-
ley, can be seen this oasis of
light,. an L—shaped vacant lot
left by the removal of some ill-
fated houses. In February,
1930, it was an oasis marred by
debris and cellar holes partially
filled with trash, offering an in-
vitation for further contribu-
tions of garbage, bricks and old
iron.

1When it rains and “is winter,

Dear Mayor Curly:

We want the playground for us
because too many boys and girls get
killed crossing the street we want
the playground on Foster Street
one of my' brother's got killed and
one of our companions named John
Schiappa got struck by a truck and
and he is in hospital and he is bet-
ter now that is why we want the
playground. And we have many lit-
tle brothers and sisters that cannot
cross the street the way to the park.
We would like to have them play in
the playground you are going to
give us.

Sincerely yours,
THE COMMITTEE

Michael Covelluzzi (Age :2)
Anthony Grande (Age 9)
John Schiappa (Age l2)
William Ventola (Age lo)
Goetono Leo (Age ll)

window mothers can peep out
directly on this play space for
children and call them to din-
ner or watch them at their
games. Here are little children
playing every day on a rough
uncared for spot; but what
about the mothers upstairs
whose fingers must be. respon-
sible for the snowy white laun-
dry that waves from corner to
corner?

The two social workers de—
cided to interview these moth-
ers and make an informal sur-
vey. Up and around the alley
and into tenements, then up
and down innumerable flights
of stairs; they repeated this

not many children can be found playing here,
especially during school hours. But in answer to
our query of “Where are we ?” the prompt reply
of small children comes in chorus, “On our play-
ground,” with the correction frOm a precise-
minded six-year-old sister, “It’s a dump that the
city has for us children to play in.” This is Foster
near Commercial Street and here were once
homes that were built around a past Foster Court
and Foster Place.

630

process all day long Holy Thursday, Good Fri-
day and Saturday. Three mothers, when asked
where their children played, said: “N e never let
them out of the house except when we take them
to school. The dump is rough and the North End
Beach is not for small children as they would
have to cross Commercial Street through the
traffic.” During the summer months an officer
guides them, but all the rest of the year this
special protection is denied. Some mothers on

STORY OF A PLAYGROUND 631

Henchman Street find peace for their harassed
souls by putting their little ones at the bottom of
the light shafts. These areaways give ten square
feet with four brick walls rising four or five
stories. The air at the bottom is necessarily dank
and out of reach of any sunlight the year around.
It is like putting a baby to play in a big fireplace
and letting him get his fresh air, sunshine and
outlook on life up the chimney.

All doors in the tenements were open to visit-
ors, and always there followed a long retjnue of
children—“Are we going to have a playground
tomorrow ?” “Please, we want the playground,”
and “Can our fathers have a job working on it ?”
Here in this little dirty valley between these
heights of tenement homes was land measuring
a little less than 5,000 square feet for sale for not
many more dollars, waiting to be taken over by
the city and reconditioned at approximately
$5,000. Almost too small to be considered, yet it
had held eight residence buildings in the past and
was likely to be built on again. The alternative
was a play space for more than 150 children
under twelve years of age who live in the im-
mediately overlooking tenements. At least fifty
mothers every day could have a place to “park”
their children under school age for a few hours
of sunshine and fresh air. This little space would
be their back yard and front yard, their front
porch and back porch, their all of out-of-doors
and sunshine. '

Each visit to the spot brought additional c-hil-«
dren voicing the same song, “When do we get the
playground?” The social workers began to (wish,
they were Pied Pipers who could lure the chil?
dren to this dump changed overnight by magic
(and by the city officials) into a real playground.
The enthusiastic and enterprising youngsters who
acted as interpreters on the informal survey, de-
cided to draw up a petition to the Mayor and
proceeded to do so. It was signed by more than
one hundred children who were allowed to take
up their own petition to Mayor Curley, who
promptly promised his support provided the prop-
erty in question could be purchased for its tax
value. This interview occurred May 27, 1930.

By this time the whole neighborhood was agog
and the patriotism and civic interest of the own-
ers was such that they immediately signed written

agreements to sell the land for $5,000, $1,400 less
than the assessed value. One of the owners re-
fused an offer from an industrial firm which was
$500 more than the tax value and sold it to the
city for $500 less than this value. But such un-
precedented generosity resulted only in six
months’ delay at City Hall. How could a,city
buy land for less than it was taxed? Why should
the land be offered to the city at less than the
assessed value? It was too unusual a proceeding!
It took until August 11, 1930, for City Hall to
reduce the tax rate and until Nevember 7, 1930,
to make sure nothing extra would be collected
by those selling the land. On that date Mayor
Curley signed the final papers and the Foster
Street dump became city property. Resurfacing
with cement in November was considered not
practicable. So when Christmas came, it was a
sad little playground and the children were
greatly discouraged.

Then came rumors of a Community Christmas
Tree. Five dollars was contributed to buy the
tree, four dollars for t'angerines, and the Walter
M. Lowney Company contributed 400 bars of
chocolates. The electric lights were loaned and
returned unbroken at the end of the week. The
Foster Associates furnished the electricity, set
up and trimmed the tree, organized the carol
singing and distributed the gifts.

This was an auspicious beginning of an ex-
tensive use of our'minute playground. To be
sure, the surface was too sloping for seats and
too small for swings. It was, however, used dur-
ing the month of August for a surprising variety
of recreations—squash baseball, bean bag and
rope skipping contests as well as twenty-five yard
relay races, potato races and three-legged races.
A costume parade and a doll carriage parade ran
up the number of contestants to nearly 2,000.
This does not include the children and mothers
who came to look on.

Without the untiring effort of three playground
instructors sent by the Community Service of
Boston for twenty-one days in August the Foster
Street playground as a place to play would not
have been successful. To them and to the Foster
Street Associates, who stored the paraphernalia
during the month, is due the gratitude of all who
have worked or played on this spot.

Home Building and Home Ownership

Recreation was stressed at
the President's Conference on

Home Building and Ownership.

ll 0 one lives in a house but in
N a neighborhood.” This state-
ment by Thomas Adams of
the Regional Plan of New York
truly describes the underlying thought which ran
through the various committee reports and dis-
cussions at the President’s Conference on Home
Building and Home Ownership held in Wash-
ington December 2nd-5th.

The organization plan of the Conference pro-
vided for twenty-five committees with six corre-
lating committees to bring together the different
recommendations and findings of the twenty-five
committees on the various aspects of home build-
ing and home ownership. In the large majority
of the committees there was
specific reference to recreation
—-recreation in the home, and
recreation in the neighbor-
hood and the whole com-
munity.

It’ is significant that recrea-
tion was considered not only
by such committees as that on
Housing and Community, but
also by the Finance and Busi-
ness committees. The Finance

Committee, of which Mr.
Frederick H. Ecker, president
of the Metropolitan Life

632

gether."

"The recreational needs of the com-
munity will be met by providing at
proper locations convenient ol: access
to the residents such Facilities For
sport and recreation as country 're-
servations,’ large parks, small parks,
play lields, boys' and girls' outdoor
gymnasiums, school playgrounds, child-
ren's playgrounds, tennis courts, golf
courses, swimming pools, wading pools
and skating ponds, as well as play
space For small children in individual
yards or in sevaral yards thrown to-

 

Courtesy Child Study Anaciation.

The Conference called attention to the need for
a children’s play room or corner in the home.

Insurance Company, was chairman, although con-
cerned primarily with matters of first and second
mortgages, found that the neighborhood and its
character had a direct relationship to the security
of the individual home as a financial investment
for insurance companies, savings banks, building
and loan associations and other groups financing
home ownership. It pointed out the importance of
bringing to the attention and knowledge of home
owners the fact that the secur-
ity of their home ownership
depends to a considerable ex-
tent upon the efhciency and
honesty of the government of
their municipality, and also
upon its willingness to give
reasonable service in respect
to schools, parks, playgrounds,
streets and other facilities. It
stated that it is unwise to
adopt a policy of indiscrimi-
nate discouragement of pub-
lic improvements, and that if
public improvements are well

HOME BUILDING AND OWNERSHIP 633

conceived and proper they enhance the value of
the property and the security of the loan.

The Committee on City Planning referred to
the proper provision of playgrounds and other
open spaces as necessary, for healthful recreation
serves to increase neighborhood values. It re-
ported that some developers of new areas are
alive to the necessity of setting aside public open
spaces as a means of attracting purchasers to
their subdivisions and that this practice is grow-
ing and should be further encouraged.

The Committee on Subdivision Layout touched
upon this subject more in detail. It stated that
everybody grants that parks and playgrounds are
essential elements in city building and that no
subdivision operation is complete until the sub-
divider has provided or arranged for adequate
park and play areas within or accessible to the
lot which he is selling. It emphasized the fact
that spaciousness is a primary principle in good
subdivision layout and that no subdivider can re—
fuse to recognize that the ultimate success of his
development is dependent not alone on fine engi-
neering and architecture but on provision for the
spiritual and social requirements of the home
owners—factors which, though intangible, are of
tremendous consequence.

The several committees working primarily on
the construction of the home itself made repeated
references to the need for considering the play
and recreation needs of the family in home con-
struction planning. The Committee on Standards
and Objectives reported that every house should
provide some play space as a play room for chil-
dren with a minimum area of at least 84 square
feet per child.

The Committee on Landscape Planning and
Planting referred to the need for some outdoor
living space, whether terrace, lawn or flower
garden, and active play space for children in
planning the arrangement of the lot.

The Committee on Household Management
pointed out the fact that the management of the
home must be planned and that time and strength
should be budgeted as well as money so that
there may be time for rest and recreation, and
that the members of the family should share in
such planning.

It was recognized at the Conference that play
and recreation are factors not only in the build-

ing of new homes but in the rehabilitation of
blighted areas and slums and in the planning of
large scale multiple family dwellings, such as
large apartment house units. The Committee on
Large Scale Operations, in reporting on an
analysis made of previous large scale operations
in the past, stated that social and community
interests have been fostered because they have
been found to be good business, and this com-
mittee included in its statement of values of large
scale operations the fact that they can provide
economically facilities such as nursery schools,
outdoor and indoor play space under leadership
and other community activities for parents and

children.

The Conference was primarily a conference on
housing. However, full reference to recreation
and its values would require a pamphlet of fifty
or more pages. Recreation leaders should be
greatly encouraged over the acceptance, by all the
various business, financial and community inter-
ests which were represented on the committee
memberships, of the importance of recreation and
of adequate recreation opportunities as a normal
part of our family and community life.

 

“Spaciousness is a controlling principle in
good land development for American homes.
City conditions have robbed most of us of the
great satisfactions once derived from the big
yards and public commons of even the primi-
tive early village, and now every good citizen
is trying to help us regain some of that lost
spaciousness. It can be regained in large mea—
sure, Without undue cost, if subdivisions are
planned carefully to that end. Large lots, or
lots as large as is economically feasible, are
always desirable. The introduction of open
spaces is equally important, and they may
range from the smallest garden or play areas
to huge parks. '

“Any tract of land will, by careful design,
yield far more spaciousness in effect and in use
than thoughtless layout makes possible, and this
is good for purchaser and subdivider alike.
America is big enough and rich enough to afford
at least a decent degree of spaciousness in sub-
division planning and if all else is forgotten, this
matter should not be forgotten. It is basic and
essential to permanently good home building.”

The Leisure Problem

By A. BARRATT BROWN
Principal, Ruskin College, Oxford

DUCATION in all stages—from the school
E to the University—is too generally viewed
as a means to a livelihood and a career, i.e.
as an equipment for work; and too seldom viewed
as an equipment for leisure. For
this reason two forms of education
are of peculiar importance—edu-
cation in' the humanities and
education in the arts and crafts—
the latter of increasing importance
if we are to witness the disappear-
ance of the ,craftsman’s skill from
the field of industry.

For it is both probable and de-
sirable that what we regard today
as hobbies—from handicrafts to
allotments, and from philosophy
to play production—will become
the occupations which engage the major interest
and attention of men’s lives.

leisure

Already in the various branches of the adult
education movement there is a growing demand
for all kinds of education for leisure-not only
in intellectual studies, but in artistic and practical
pursuits. This movement, in fact, is no less im-
portant than the other wings of the working-
class movement, since the organization of leisure is
no less important than the organization of labour.
As Dean Inge has recently reminded us: “The
soul is dyed the colour of its leisure thoughts.”

It might seem at first sight that the organiza-
tion of leisure was a contradiction in terms, since
leisure is by definition the time that we spend in
our own way and on our own initiative. But
just as the play of children loses nothing of its
freshness and spontaneity when it is guided in
organised games by judicious and unobtrusive
suggestion and leadership, so the leisure of adults
may gain from the guidance and direction of
groups who are not only able to provide the best

 

Extracts from The Leisure Problem, Hibbcrt Journal, April, 1930.

634

In Utopia work and play,
industry and art will have
come together; craftman-
ship will complete the work
of the machine, and the

machine the work of craft-
manship; leisure will com-
plete the life of work and
work complete the life of

 

facilities for leisure occupations, but also to foster
the corporate life and atmosphere which enhance
and reinforce individual effort. \Ve must, how-
ever, guard against over-organisation. It is possi-
ble so to organise pe0ple‘s leisure
that they never have any time to
themselves to be really leisurely.
Over—organisation here, as else-
where, defeats its own ends. Many
of us are already in danger of los-
ing one of the most valuable fea-
tures of leisure—the opportunity
of mental relaxation, which, as
Professor Graham Wallas has re-
minded us in his Art of Thought,
affords one of the best conditions
for the "incubation" of new ideas,
and the inSpiration of creative art.

I would suggest that the arrangement and en-
joyment of leisure is an art that needs careful
thought and preparation. The art of life, indeed,
consists largely in the capacity to spend wisely
and happily the hours in which we are most free
—free from the demands and behests of others,
free to plan our own activities in and at our own
time. To waste those moments is to waste some-
thing extraordinarily precious. One of the most
horrible and insensate forms of cruelty is killing
time.

Let me not be misunderstood. I am not sug-
gesting that rest and relaxation or recreation
(bodily or mental) are a waste of time. There
are worse abuses of time than either rest or sport.
To name but one, there is idle gossip, which is the
very degradation of the art of conversation.

We often Speak of the margin of leisure. I am
reminded of the wide or narrow margin of a piece
of writing on the page of a book. Often there is
little or no margin in which to write one’s com-
ments or suggestions. But when the margin is

wide what do we do with it? Sometimes when
(C ontinm’d on page 641)

World
qt
Ploy

Salt Lake City,
Utah, has three to-
boggan slides de-

signed by the Mu-
nicipal Recreation Department according
'to its own specifications. The slides may
be used by sleds and toboggans, and snow
or frozen ‘water, or even wax or grease
may serve as the sliding medium. During
days when snow is inadequate for sleigh
riding on the nearby hills, these slides
have proved most useful. They were in-
stalled primarily for the children in areas
removed from the foot-hills which make
coasting possible, and they have worked
out very successfully. The approximate
cost of each slide is $300. They were
built by the local construction crew and may be
taken down and stored during the winter months.
This type of apparatus has been a great factor in
extending the winter use of parks as play areas.

Slides of Their
Own Make

The Park Department of
Cleveland, Ohio, has made
arrangements for twenty—
two skating ponds through—
out the city. A study is being made of the work
program and budget possibilities, as well as of
desirable locations for additional ponds, and it is
hoped to increase the number. The same approach
is being made by the Park Department for the
establishment of coasting hills. In conference
with a number of skating organizations, the De-
partment has planned an increased skating pro-
gram. Neighborhood clubs of skaters are being
formed and a program of meets and carnivals
organized. A hockey league is being planned as
an added feature of the skating season.

Skating Ponds

for Cleveland

 

 

uncp cation Department, Salti 

The Girl Scouts of Du-
luth, Minnesota, take full
advantage of the facilities
for winter sports offered
by the Park Department. Each year a Winter
Sports Day is held, when Girl Scouts from all
over the city arrive carrying skiis or snow-shoes
or dragging toboggans. The following events are
run off: skiing for form and distance; toboggan
races; snow-shoe races. There are three classes
—girls ten to twelve; twelve to thirteen, and
thirteen years and over. '

Girl Scouts and

Winter Sports

The toboggan course extends over a distance of
from 500 to 600 yards. The snow-shoe race is
run off in a 25-yard limit, while the skiing events
take place over a natural slide about 600 feet in
length. A cup is awarded the troop which receives
the greatest number of points during the day’s

' competition.

635

636 WORLD AT PLAY

L
Curling in Madison.—For those not inter-

ested in hockey, skiing, ice boat racing, to-
bogganing, horse races or speed skating, the
Recreation Department, Bbard of Education,
of Madison, Wisconsin, has arranged an op-
portunity for curling. In inaugurating the
game the Superintendent of Recreation ap-
proached the Service ,Club, made inquiry re—
garding the number of Scotchmen belonging
to the club and appealed to them for the
special stones necessary for the equipment of
the game. Nine stones were donated by these
men to start the movement in Madison.

The location was the next problem. COOp-
eration with the University of Wisconsin
brought about the use of a sheet of ice
between the pillars in back of the football
stadium. To shield the participants from the
cold winter breezes the rink was enclosed
with canvas. The first call for play brought
out fourteen men with added numbers from
day to day. The attendance the second year
made two rinks necessary, while the third year
saw the organization of a Curling Club which
promoted a four rink curling club building.
The club is made up not only of Scotchmen
but of men from every nationality in the city

who would not take part in more active win-
ter sports.

A League for Winter Sports.—The Southern
California Winter Sports League has been
organized for the purpose of furthering inter-
est in winter sports and of getting ‘people not
only to visit snow playgrounds in the moun-
tains as spectators but also as active partici—
pants. Through the efforts of the League the
public will be kept informed of snowfall, road
condition, and winter sports possibilties.

When Old Timers Get Together.—Every
Saturday night the Old Timers’ Harmonica
Club of Tacoma, Washington, holds a dance,
and here each week are to be found about two
hundred people, most of them past forty and
many of them over sixty years of age. Square
dances, two steps, tuxedos, schottisches,
waltzes and quadrilles are intermingled. Later
there comes an intermission and a buffet sup-
per is served which is included in the low
price of admission. The music is provided by
the Seven members of the Harmonica Club

augmented by two violins, one banjo, a guitar '

and a piano. The club meets every Wednes-

day night for practice and the following Sat-
urday’s music is arranged for at that time.

The Old Timers’ Harmonica Club was or-
ganized by the Recreation Department of the
MetrOpolitan Park District in November, 1930,
and now has thirty members. The club has
played many times over the radio, at the Old
Soldiers’ Home and veteran hospitals, and
before other groups.

Reviving Ancient Pastimes—W i n d s o r ,
Massachusetts, has gone back to the simple

-forms of sports originated generations ago by

country dwelling forefathers, and every Sun-
day afternoon for two hours or more there are
contests in buck—sawing, barrel rolling, rifle
shooting, wood chopping, hare and hounds,
and other feats of skill, strength and endur-
ance enjoyed by the men of past generations.
The scene is Brookvale Farm; the promoters,
the Recreation Association. There are always
hundreds of participants on hand to cheer the
Tigers and Wild Cats as the participants have
named themselves. The award to be offered

is a good country dinner which the losers will
give the winners.

Increased Attendance at Lower Cost—Visi—
tors to the municipal play and recreation
centers in Los Angeles, California, totaled
26,300,408 in 1931—a tremendous expansion
over the 1930 total of $17,969,950. In spite of
the greatly increased attendance, through the
exercise of rigid economy during the past year
the Department of Playground and RecreatiOn
with a cut in its revenues, Operated a larger
number of playgrounds. Whereas in the fiscal
year of 1929—1930 it cost the city 5.68 cents
every time a child visited a municipal play—
ground, the records of last year showed a per
capita expense of 4.81 cents. Five years ago
the per capita cost was 7.71 cents. The growth
of the city’s play and recreation system is
shown in the increase in the book value for the
system from $14,234,654 five years ago to
$15,779,503 for the past year. Many new struc-
tures are being erected under the provision
of unemployment bonds of which $1,000,000
has been allocated to the Department of Play-
ground and Recreation.

A New Drama Group.—A permanent organ-
ization to be known as the Dearborn Institute
of Drama was one of the valuable outgrowths
of the three—week drama institute held in Dear-

WORLD AT PLA Y

born, Michigan, under the auspices of the Rec-
reation Department. Charles F. Wells, of the
staff” of the National Recreation Association,
conducted the institute.

San Francisco Develops Industrial Recrea-J'

tion—Through a cooperative arrangement
with the Board of Education which is making
available a number of school gymnasia, the San’
Francisco Playround Commission is initiating
a greatly enlarged program of industrial rec-
reation. The Commission’s new department
of industrial recreation has started out with a

program for a city—wide basketball tourna-u

ment. Tentative plans call for a league divided
into 145 pounds, A and B divisions'which are
unlimited. A nominal entrance fee, sufficient
only to defray the expenses of referees, awards
and incidentals, will be charged. A number
of industrial plants have expressed much in—
terest in the plan. i"

A Valentine Potty

(Continued from page 624)

them. \Vhile the music is being played the play-
ers weave in and out of the circle of chairs.
When the music stops, that is, when the plane
hits an air pocket, everyone is thrown to a seat
except the one player who is unsuccessful in get-
ting a chair. Before the music starts again,
another chair is removed. The game continues
until only two players and one chair remain.
This, of course, is the 1932 version of “Going to
Jerusalem.”

Pantomimes of 1932

I When Grandma Was a Girl
Grandma is a 1932 fiapper dressed in a trail-
ing black dress and a Eugenie hat'.

II When Grandma Was a Y onng Wife

Grandma rushes home from the delicatessen
store with many cans and much dried food. She
cooks the dinner in a 2 by 4 kitchen.

III When Grandma Was a Mother

Grandma, dressed in a trim little house dress,
is chewing gum, reading a book, and pushing the
baby carriage back and forth with one foot.

Refreshments. Announce that 1982 refresh-
ments will now be served. Pass around a box
of bouillon cubes each tied with a dainty red
ribbon. Of course, the guests will be surprised
and somewhat nonplussed. Then tell them that
you realize that there is nothing like good old-
fashioned eats so you’ve planned a real surprise.

 

637

. K

of practical suggestions which will be
invaluable to music teachers, recreation
leaders. school superintendents,”com-
munity center and settlement workers,
church musical directors. camp direct-
ors, and all others interested'h'in. any
sort of musical endeavor.not exclu-
sively professional in purpose.

- - - "The thing most needed in the coun-
try now is more leaders. There are plenty of places
for training musicians but that is not enough. We
want musicians trained in the humanities as well:

.young men and young women who can go out and

take their places in communities and help people in
one way or another to achieve their own happiness
through music. This is, in short, more than a sur-
vey; it is a wise and constructive book calculated to
be of real service to the cause of music in all its
manifold phases. This book shows how this can
be done."———Thomas Whitney Surette, Director of
Concord School of Music.

- - - "Recognizing the validity of begin-
ning with very simple material, it insists through-
out that more permanent satisfactions and the deeper
joys come from constant growth in the type of ma-
terial and the adequacy of performance. ‘No one
can read this book without being stimulated and
guided in his efforts for more and better participa-
tion in music.”——Pe'ter W. Dykema, Professor of
Music Education, Teachers College, Columbia
University.

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue

New York City

Enclosed is my check for $3.50 for which send
me a copy of “MUSIC IN AMERICAN LIFE” by
A. D. Zanzig.

O I I o O O I I I I I I I I I I U I U I I I o o o I I I I I n I o n I I I I I I I U o I U U o I I I I I O I I.

Post Paid $3 .65

wt» CLARENLE HOLVARD

“keep the
children tyf
the street: ”

750

Cities and Towns Have
Adopted it Because it

Troiible

Proof a

Built of Bronze. Brass,
Iron. . . . Fool-proof con-
struction. . . . Fitted with

rustless Brass Pipe. . . .Anglc
Stream. . . . Mouth Guard
. . . Each drink fresh from

water main. . . . Self-drain-
ing. . . . Anti-freezing. . . .

Foot-controlled.
+

THE

Murdock Mfg. & Supply (:0.

Established 1853
426 Plum St., Cincinnati, 0.

Outdoor Bubble font
D l A M O N D

EAGLE RINGER PITCHING SHOE

 

 
  

 

  

The Eagle Ringer Pitching Shoe is
the top—notcher of the Diamond
line. Drop forged from special
Diamond horseshoe steel—hard or
soft. Preferred by amateurs and
professionals.

Also Diamond Official — Diamond
Junior --— Double Ringer and pitch-
ing shoe accessories.

The Most Complete Line!

. DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE Co.
I 4610 Grand Ave, Duluth, Minn.

-,___ -—_—-——————— Mi

_ —\_n_:--\_-_——_:- _——___—_ .

    

 

   
         
         
   
       
   
 

 

CLARENCE HOWARD

The recreation movement has lost a good friend
in the death of Clarence Howard, former presi-
dent of the Commonwealth Steel Company of St.
Louis. Mr. Howard took a personal interest in
the development of the recreation movement. He
did not merely content himself in sending contri-
butions, but actually came to the national head-
quarters to talk over recreation problems. For
thirteen years he shared in the national recrea—
tion movement.

His own spirit was the kind of spirit which the
recreation movement ought to help create. He
was a great soul. Mr. Howard’s courage, opti-
mism, enthusiasm, boyishness, helped all who
came in contact with him. He had a great gift
for inspiring confidence.

 

 

luscort them to the next room where a table with
refreshments has already been set up. The table
should be decorated in red and white and the
centerpiece and favors should be miniature air-
planes. As the old saying goes, the way to a
man's-—and even a woman’s—heart is through
the stomach. Can one ask for a more effective
climax to a party?

Note: The games “Aviation” and “Valentine
Greetings” were adapted from “\Yhat'll \Ve Do
Vow” by Longstreth and Holton.

HEALTH VALUES OF WINTER SPORTS 639

Health Values of Winter Sports
(Continued from page 615)

of adequate dimensions much can be done without
great expense in providing facilities for children.
Snow from the streets can be dumped in these
areas to form slides for coasting, and a smooth

ground surface when properly watered can be
made into a safe and pleasureable skating rink.

If natural ponds or artificial pools are to be
used for skating purposes, it is essential that
authorities first determine the thickness of the ice
before allowing children to skate. It might be
well for parents as well to observe the rules laid
down by the National Safety Council in this re-
spect :_ Ice one inch thick is not safe. Two inches
of ice will hold one person. Three inches will hold

small groups, and four inches will hold large
groups.

It is well to remember that fresh air without
sunshine is not sufficient for bodily deveIOpment
and that parents should see to it that their chil-
dren are given every opportunity to utilize the
benefits of sunny days. It might be pointed out
here that normal growth of certain organs is
dependent on vitamins transferred into the body
by sunshine. The defective teeth prevalent among
large numbers of people in fog areas of England
are due to the lack of adequate sunshine.

 

Lighting for Winter Sports
(Continued from page 616)

to finance itself from increased patronage.
Smaller slides and ski jumps, which are usually
found in the average municipal recreation park,

can be adequately lighted by a few properly
located fioodlights.

The illumination of such winter sports, includ-
ing the competitive events, has proven so satis-
factory to the participants and spectators alike
that many of the skating races of the 1932
Olympic Sports, held at Lake Placid, New York,
will be staged under such artificial lighting.

 

Forest Activities
(Continued from page 607)

Playlets, mentioned above, also contains a number
of songs written to old or familiar tunes. The
State Foresters of Georgia, Alabama, Florida,
and Louisiana have published forestry programs
in which are given several songs.

 

 

Special Certificates and College Degrees for
Students and Teachers

of Physical Education and Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION
July 5 to August 12

Wide variety of graduate, and under-graduate

courses. Prominent coaching staff. Modern gym-
nasium. An ideal environment for health and study.

'Special Bulletin on Request

Address
Director of Summer Sessron

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
STATE COLLEGE. PA.

In the Hearts of His Countrymen
By MARION HOLBROOK

HE demand for this pageant-play depicting

scenes from the life of Washington has been so
great that a second edition has become necessary.

Have you sent for your copy?

Price $.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

WHY CLAY COURTS

You too can have RED or GREEN champion-
ship courts.

RUBICO RED or GREEN DRESSING

Impregnated into your present surface will give
you a fast drying resilient court the equal to
any expensive court manufactured at a very
small cost to you.

RUBICO RED or GREEN DRESSING

is shipped in 100 lb. bags anywhere with full
directions for applying.

A new RUBICO FAST DRYING
TENNIS COURT

will cost less to construct than a good clay
court and is far superior. It requires practically
no upkeep. Write for complete information.

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.

Westfield New Jersey
Phone 2-1807

Largest designers and builders of athletic fields and
tennis courts in America.

640 AN EXPERIMENT IN WINTER SPORTS

A Valentine Party in 1982

HERE are suggestions for a 50-year-from-now

party which community centers, clubs, churches
and groups of all kinds will find novel and enter-
taining. Send for a copy.

Price $.10

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

Build it Yourself

If you have a homo worklh , h ' u, I .
Each Issue of Populu Hemmer:  mun on you and

with Ian- tor moklnx such bu tlful and un-
tnl t Inn on: Book Cue. (Jill)an Clo-eta.
Bird Houm Shlp Models Rial": Flu-altars.

Long”. Chlgdron I Playthings. Ton Tabla.
Ann non. Landl- Stick: etc. Conn wood-
work n2, motol-worklnmiotho work. luther
craft. toys. or, hm: and pewter work.

EXDIIII‘IIJII. In curl of tools. A roll “How
40-41041 munlno. Scorn of Into clou-
drlwlnn malt: over! non [Iran]. I: A BC.

SIX MONTHS' TRIAL 51.00
Sand 81.00 today for trlIJ 6 months' Inb-

Icriptlon. Mono! book I! not delighted. :- 
POPULAII HOMECRAFI’ '@

771 N. Michigan Ave. Chico-so. NI.

Trial 6 months $199

    
      
   
   

An Experiment in Drama
(Continued from page 617)

every one in the class taking part, either as
players or workers. This plan sustained the
interest throughout the course, and also af-

forded an occasion of considerable enter-
tainment.

As a part of the institute, a Play-Finding Com-
mittee was appointed to select and present lists
of plays suited to particular ages, groups and oc-
casions. This was found a most practical way of
meeting the needs of all the communities for
every purpose and season. From these lists plays
and books of technique were bought and made
available to the members for reading or c0pying,
and in this way the nucleus of a really usable
library has been created.

A workshop was established at one of the cen-
tral centers, where costumes, drapes, sky cyclo-
ramas, stylized wood drapes, and various other
stage accessories were designed and dyed. Tin
pails were turned into flood lights, old chairs con-
verted int'o thrones and period settees, faded cre-
tonne restored to brilliance and usefulness for
portieres and window hangings, stretchers trans-
formed into screens, and a general process of
creating, contriving and salvaging carried on.

The culmination of all these occupations and
activities was a tournament of junior and senior

 

groups running from April 6th to the I 3th, with
eighteen competing centers entering thirty plays
in which 266 players took part, with all the prin-
cipals and dramatic directors participating as
committees and workers. Thirteen junior and
seventeen senior plays were presented, and there
were three runners-Up in each group. The audi-
ence averaged 250 for each performance. The
ages of the players were from eight to twenty-
five, and the types of plays included fantasy,
farce, comedy, travesty, drama, folk-lore, and
poetic romance. Some of these were done ex-
ceptionally well; all were marked by careful
selection, direction and presentation.

One of the interesting features of the tourna-
ment was the selection of the second play in the
junior group, Imagination, for broadcasting over
one of the local stations. This broadcast, done
with surprising success, has opened up a new and
wide field for dramatics in the recreation centers,
and it is planned to have regular broadcasting
during the next season.

 

A Washington Party
(Continued from page 621)

York. It would be difficult to reproduce such
a feast today, but we have one gentlemen’s
word for it that “\Vafel-frolics” were given.
He wrote enthusiastically of such an enter-
tainment that he attended and was “not a little
grieved that so luxurious a feast should come
under the name of a wafel-frolic, because if
this be the case I must expect but a few wafel—
frolics for the future.” Evidently the hostess
did not confine herself to the simple fare. Fruit
punches and cider seem to have been the prin-
cipal drink served. Ice cream can be served
without fear of an anachronism as there is a
report of a very lively party given in Phila-
delphia at which ice cream was served during
the early part of the evening. Later there was
supper. Partners for supper are found by
matching words, written on pieces of paper,
relating to the Revolution. For example, one
paper will bear the word “Bunker” and the
partner’s paper will read “Hill.”

Where to Secure Supplies

British flags, eight by twelve inches, can be
obtained from Annin and Company, 85 Fifth
Avenue, New York City. They cost fifteen
cents each. American flags of the same size
can be obtained at the same price.

MacMurray College Literary

THE LEISURE PROBLEM 641

Small metal bells can be bought from B.
Shackman and Company, 906 Broadway, New
York City, for twenty—five cents a dozen.

Very graceful colonial silhouettes are found
at the Dennison Manufacturing Company, 220
Fifth Avenue, New York City. They cost ten
cents a piece or two for fifteen cents. It would
not be difficult to make others from several of
these models.

.—

The Leisure Problem

(Continued from page 634)

the print is fine to look at and the matter irre-
proachable, the margin is best left white and
clean, save for a few marks of personal apprecia-
tion or corroboration. Sometimes, as in the es-
says or examination papers that some of us have
to read (for our sins), the margin must be filled
with corrections or comments in blue pencil or
red ink. So when the daily text of life is poor
and mean, the margin of leisure must be used to
correct and readjust it.

But the ideal perhaps is to be found in one of
those old illuminated manuscripts of the Middle
Ages that you may see in the Bodleian, and that
belong to the days (though I do not say the good
old days) before the age of the machine. The
big black letters of the small space of text are
surrounded by beautiful and delicate pictures and
decorations—brightly coloured scrolls and leaves
and flowers or landscapes and portraits that illu-
strate and illuminate the text. And in Utopia
the margin of leisure will be wide and full of
beauty, if, indeed, the text and the margin are
distinguishable, and a man’s leisure will illumin-
ate and illustrate his work. For work and play,
industry and art, will have come together, crafts-
manship will complete the work of the machine,
and the machine the work of craftsmanship; lei-

sure will complete the life of work, and work
complete the life of leisure.

Till then we must prize what margin of leisure
is vouchsafed to us, and fill it with what fancies
most delight us and are most likely in their turn
to delight our fellow-men.

 
   
   
        
       
    
        
         
 
       
   
   

  

Popular
PLAYGROUND

Equipment

  

One factor in making the
“American” line popular is
the completeness of it. Every
type of playground devices
may be had. Our new 1932
Catalog shows an ultra-com—
plete line of playground
equipment that has won the
confidence of hundreds of
park and playground super-
intendents. Get your catalog
now—see the many new
” American " Devices illus-
trated therein.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVI CE
CO.

Anderson, Indiana

642

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

mThe constant prog—

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City.” “A

“AHex-e you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

m

SOUTHEIQHI

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
of Interest 'to the Recreation Worker

I’

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, October 1931

Park Contraptions, by Harold A. Caparn
Ocean Pool at Kitsilano Beach, by A. S. Wootton
Poetic Park Trails, by Paul B. Riis

The Grab Bag—Recreation and Unemployment, by
V. K. Brown

New Features in a Swimming Pool, by V. K. Brown
Outdoor Field Sports
Bitumuls for Parks, by R. M. Morton

Scouting November 1931
November Hikes

Parks and Recreation, November 1931

Park Design for 1931, by Phelps \Vyman
General Co-ordination of the Fundamental Depart-
ments of Park Work, by George T. Donoghue

Revenue Producing Facilities in Public Parks, by

Henry W. Busch
Venetian Night Boat Parade, by V. K. Brown

The Grab Bag
Rifle and Trap Shooting Ranges

Child Welfare, December 1931
The Gang Age, by J. W. Faust

Parks and Recreation, December 1931

This issue is devoted to winter sports and describes
the activities of a number of cities. It also in-
cludes articles on skiing, the illumination of win-
ter sports, ice hockey and ice boating.

The American City, January 1932

How Much Play Space Does a City Need? by
George D. Butler

Park and Playground Standards and Achievements
in the Chicago Region, by Robert Kingery
Macon Makes a Park to Provide Employment

Here Young Athenians Play

Active Recreation Development Reported

PAMPHLETS

Twentieth Annual Report of the Department of Play-
grounds, District of Columbia, 1931

Annual Playground Report of the Recreation Commis-
sion of the City of Norwalk, Connecticut, 1931

Initial Report of the Regional Planning Commission,
Hamilton County, Ohio, 1931

Annual Report of the Division of Parks and Recreation
of31the Department of Public Welfare, St. Louis,
19

Report of the Forester. U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, for
the Year Ending June 30, 1931

High Lights of Teaching Activities in the Schools of
Fresno City, 1930-31.

Annual Report of Fresno Public Schools, 1930-31

Vacation Time Can Be Character Time for Fresno Boys
and Girls

The Recreation Log, 1931—Report of the Department of
Public Recreation, Millburn, New Jersey

Parks Department Annal Report—Calgary, Canada

Bibliography on Education of the Negro
Office of Education. Bulletin No. 17—1931
Government Printing OHlCC, $.10

Tenth Annual Report 1931 of the Recreation Depart-
ment of Passaic, New Jersey

    

George Washington Pageants
and Plays

United States George Washington Bicentennial Commis-
sion, Washington Building, Washington, D. C. Free.

OR the nation-wide celebration in 1932 of the two hun-

dredth anniversary of the birth of George Washing-
ton the Bicentennial Commission has published a list of
pageants and plays depicting the life of George Wash-
ington and his time. The material in the pMphlet is
presented in two main divisions: (1) that issued by the
Commission and distributed without charge, and (2) that
available through publishers throughout the country.
The Commission requests that two c0pies of the program
of any George Washington play or pageant be sent to
the Pageant and Play Department, United States George
Washington Bicentennial Commission, Washington
Building, Washington, D. C., to be placed on file in the
annals of the Com-mission which will become a permanent
memorial,

Distributed Leisure

By  C. Walker. The Century Company, New York.
$2.2 .

"THE simple truth is,” says the author, a practical busi-
ness man with thirty years of experience in business
administration, “we have been giving so much thought to
turning out goods and putting them up in attractive
packages that we have given no thought to packing
leisure in usable units. . . . . Our industrial machine
has been so busy for the past fifteen years grinding out
larger and ever larger quantities of goods that its other
product has been neglected. The problem is how shall
we make usable leisure with our production machine?
How shall we package leisure ?”

The author’s thesis is that the world today needs goods
and leisure, but what it has are goods and mass unem-
ployment. If mass unernployment could be converted
into usable leisure the aim of our industrial life would
be attained. This can be accomplished, the author be-
lieves, through an equitable distribution of work and
leisure and by making leisure desirable and beneficial.

Music for Public School Administrators

By Peter W. Dykema, Bureau of Publications, Teachers
College, New York City, 1931. $1.75.

EVERY question with respect to recreational music for

children or adults in these days is likely to lead to
questions as to what is being done in music in the public
schools. Professor Dykema’s book is an excellent refer-
ence for any such inquiries. It presents an illuminating
exposition of the place and possibilities of music in pub-
lic schools from kindergarten through senior high
schools. It deals with such questions as the following:

New Books on Recreation

“Why and How Should Music Be Taught in the Public
Schools ?” “What Musical Skills and Appreciations May
Be Expected of Pupils in Each Year of the Primary and
Intermediate Grades and the Junior and Senior High
Schools P” “What Shall Be Done for the Monotone or
Unmusical Child?” It presents also plans for the or-
ganization of orchestras, bands, class instruction in in-
struments, choruses, glee clubs, and rhythm bands, and
it describes the various types of musical instruments and
other equipment needed. Furthermore it presents the

prices and sources of such instruments and other
equipment.

The Child and His Home

By H. W. Hurt, Ph. D. Minton. Balch & Co., New
York. $2.50.

DR. HURT has brought together in this one volume a

large body of statistical information and research
findings. Although the emphasis in the book, particularly
in the earlier parts of it, is on the contribution of the
home to various aspects of child development, the book
itself covers many factors affecting child life which lie
outside of the home. The title of the book is somewhat
misleading in this'respect. Apparently the volume is in-
tended to encompass the general field covered by the
White House Conference on Child Health and Protec-
tion, and a great deal of the material in the book is
based upon reports presented to that Conference.

National Parks, National Monuments

and National Forests

St. Louis Public Library, St. Louis, Missouri.

HE students of the St. Louis Library School have done

a valuable piece of work in compiling this selective
list of books and articles relating to our national parks,
monuments and forests. It is intended as a practical
reading list for the tourist or the reader interested in the
marvels of our country. Some titles on early explora-
_tions, scientific investigations and geology are included,
as well as many giving popular descriptions and infor-
mation for users of the nation’s most important public
lands.

Municipal Outdoor Swimming Pools

By Roger J. Bounds. Civic Development Department,
Chamber of Commerce of the United States.

THIS reprint from The Municipal Index—193i gives the
result of a study of swimming pools, their construc-
tion, operation and maintenance. The material is based on
a study of 221 outdoor pools. The information, covering
the number of pools, dimensions, capacity, construction,
fees, use, method of cleaning pool and purifying water,
is arranged in tabulated form.

643

644 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Health Through Leisure-Time Recreation.

By Edith M. Gates. The Womans Press, New
York. $2.50.

In this statement of the phiIOSOphy and scope of a
health education program for girls and women, Miss
Gates has presented something more than an historical
statement of the health education program of the Y. W.
C. A., though she has described in some detail the evolu-
tion of the prOgram. She has given us a series of well
balanced suggestions for happy and efficient functioning
of the healthy personality through the maintenance of
high health standards. It is not a highly technical vol-
ume; rather is it a simply presented statement of some of
the ways in which girls and women may get the most out
of life through participation in activities which make for
happiness. Not only physical activities are suggested but
the entire range of recreational and cultural interests.
And “health,” as MiSS Gates conceives of it, is not an
end in itself but a means to happy living, and health edu-
cation is one method of achieving this objective. There
is much in the book which recreation workers in all
fields as well as in Y. W. C. A.’s will find helpful—the
program items listed; the suggestions for helping girls
and young women meet their problems; the well chosen
list of books and source material.

Books—A Selected List For Parents and Teachers.

Child Study Association of America, 221 West 57th
Street, New York. $.35.

The sixth edition of the list of books for parents and
teachers, compiled by the Parents’ Bibliography Commit-
tee of the Child Study Association of America, contains
more than five hundred books as contrasted with the
forty-nine books of the 1914 list—no small measure of
the development of parent education literature. New sub-
jects are being introduced into each edition of the list,
phiIOSOphy being the new member of the 1931 edition.
There are nineteen headings under which the books are
grouped, Play and Recreation being one of these. Brief
information is given about each book, and the publisher
and price are listed.

Planting and Care of Lawns.

U. S. Department of Agriculture. Government
Printing Office, Washington, D. C. Farmers’ Bul-
letin No. 1677. $.05.

There are many practical suggestions in this bulletin
which recreation executives will be glad to have in con-
nection with the preparation of any special areas which
may have grassy surfaces.

Plays For Civic Days.

Compiled and edited by A. P. Sanford. Dodd, Mead
and Company, New York. $2.50.

There are twenty .citizenship plays for community cen-
ters in this compilation of plays. They are designated for
presentation by young peOple and are easy to produce.

Parties For Children.

McCall’s Magazine, New York. $.20.

Delightful parties are outlined here—for Christmas,
Easter, Fourth of July, St. Patrick’s Day, St. Valentine’s
Day, and Hallowe’en. There is, too, an Alice in Book-
land party and a Spring Flower party. Birthday parties
for tiny tots form a valuable section of the booklet.

Year’s Best Books For Children—1931.

Child Study Association of America, 221 West 57th
Street, New York. $.10.

As an approximate guide the books suggested have
been divided into age groups such as the youngest child;
the primary age; the intermediate age; junior high
school; senior high school. There is also a list of books
for special interests.

Billboards and Aesthetic Legislation.

By Lucius H. Cannon. Municipal Reference Library,
St. Louis Public Library, 408 City Hall, St. Louis,
Missouri. $.25.

“Never has there been such great interest,” says Har-
land Bartholomew in the introduction to this pamphlet,
“in the matter of preserving the natural beauties of our
countryside or the somewhat more artificial beauties of
our cities.” The compilation, prepared by the St. Louis
Municipal Reference Library, contains the laws passed
by various cities and states to control outdoor advertis-
ing and gives a brief digest of a number of outstanding
lawsuits. There is also a selected list of books, pamphlets
and periodical articles on the subject. This pamphlet
will be of interest to all who are concerned with pre-
serving our natural beauties.

Along the Brook.

By Raymond T. Fuller. The John Day Company,
New York. $1.50.

“Know one brook well," is Mr. Fuller’s advice, and he
tells how to make the acquaintance of the insects, birds,
fish, turtles and frogs, fiowers and plants which live in
or near our brooks. It is not so much a handbook of
nature study as it is an alluring invitation to come out-
doors at any time of the year.

Home Play.

Extension Service, Colorado Agricultural College,
Fort Collins, Colorado.

Home Play contains fifty answers to the question:
“What can we play?” The games suggested have been
classified under three general headings—active games,
quiet games, and pencil and paper games. In most cases
no equipment is necessary.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. \ViNAN'r, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCiiER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLiAu BU'r'ranoa-rn, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AusriN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
\ViuiAH HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MR5. FRANCIS DELAcv HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
Gus-rAvus T. Kmnv, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

O'r'ro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

Miss ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla, Calif.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES \V. \VADSWORTH, J R., \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. \VILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

C. S. \VEerN, Scranton, Pa.

