Believe in Government

ELIEVE in government and keep government something to be

believed in.

' It is popular now to throw stones at government as something

abhorrent, swollen.

Government after all is all of us working together for the com-
mon good. To give up government in despair is to give up faith
in ourselves. Not to believe in government is the deepest depth of

pessimism.

Government means schools, libraries, playgrounds, swimming
pools, recreation centers, hospitals, fire protection—means work of

all the people for the good of all the people.

If we cannot build a government which we can respect, can have
faith in, through which we can work for “the better way of life,"

we cannot respect ourselves—our people as a whole.

Here lies our fundamental test—as to whether men and women

of all creeds and all races can unite to work together through gov-

o ernment to achieve fundamental purposes. The one who destroys
faith in the possibilities of building a government which shall be
worthy of pride and respect destroys faith in humanity in a most

fundamental aspect.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

cember, l932

 

Everywhere, Christmas!

 

Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night! Christmaswhere snow-peaks stand solemn andwhite,

Christmas in lands of the Fir-tree and pine, Christmas where corniields lie sunny and bright;

Christmas in lands of the palm-tree and vine, Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
Phillips Brooks

410

 

There are so many beautiiul

Christmas plays, pageants and
pantomimes. Why not give one?

N ALL the holidays there is none to which
. drama lends itself more graciously than to

Christmas. With the preparations for this
reatest of all holidays life takes on a festival
pirit, and during this time when interest is fo-
used on bringing happiness to others a play or
geant seems to be 'a natural expression of joy
nd good will." The Christmas play always has a

   
 
 
    
  

Scenes from “The Waif.” a popular mo-
rality play written by Elizabeth Grimball.

special significance for it is in itself
a gift made with little sacrifices of
time and effort, and given as an al-
most spiritual otl'ering. It is these
productions that keep alive the loveli-
est of our traditions. In a busy world
we are for a brief hour concerned
with the past. while our players act
out old stories. recall gracious cus-
toms and bring simplicity and beauty
to our festival.

Even from the workaday world
Christmas demands its tribute. There is a pause
in the routine. of most oflices on the afternoon of
the day before Christmas and in such uncon-
genial surroundings as the average business oliice
affords, the heartiness and good will of the season
hold sway. For a 'number of years it” has been
the custom for the workers of the National Rec-
reation Association to present a Christmas play

411

-—- -—-

412 CHRISTMAS PLAYS

for their fellow workers. Early in December the
play is chosen and rehearsals begin. The mem-
bers of the cast give part of their luncheon hours
over to rehearsals several noons each week.
Sandwiches are brought in, coffee is ordered
from a shop in the neighborhood and rehears-
als go on with all the promptness and serious--
ness of a Broadway production.

The players feel a keen responsibility in pre-
paring an entertainment which will bring
pleasure to their friends who contribute their
part not only through keen interest but by
taking care of such details as the programs,
properties, costumes and the very important
work of putting up the curtains and lights and
transforming a section of the office into a thea-
tre. The play itself is rehearsed behind closed
doors. and its theme kept as secret as possible.
Each year a different department prepares the
programs. They are carefully typed and placed
in attractive folders made of decorative paper.

Usually members of the cast find time to
attend to costuming and improvising proper-
ties. Sometimes ingenuity is heavily taxed,
for an office does not lend itself gracefully to
the drama, and desks and cardboard packing
boxes need considerable coaxing before they
will take on the form of creditable fireplaces,
cradles, dining tables and other necessary
properties. At the dress
rehearsal last year all
went well until the sec-
ond scene. This scene
represented the corner of
a chapel with a shrine
up left in which a statue
of the Virgin stood. The
rest of the stage was
filled with kneeling pea-
sants who had brought
gifts to the shrine. The
sacred atmosphere so
necessary to this scene
was totally lacking.
Something had to be“
done to create a sense
of aloofness and sacred-
ness for the statue which
seemed to be too close
to the audience and the

other players, so close
that the girl taking the

part of Mary seemed too recognizable" as

worker whom one saw every day. An authen
note was lacking in the picture and the enti
success of the play hung on the effectiveness

this scene.

Someone suggested that what was need
was the low railing, suggestive of an altar,
set the statue apart and in so doing give t
scene the spiritual appeal that was missi
It seemed next to impossible to acquire t
piece of property until an ingenious pers
thought of the adaptability of corrugated pap
A piece of this material was taken from t
roll in the stock room, cut out to resemble
small grating, painted with gold radiator pai
and when placed on the floor it stood alone
the desired curve before the little platform c
which the statue stood. The office playe
have learned to meet many problems, but t
love of the drama seems to solve many see

. ingly impossible situations and they take a re

zest in making their productions as beautif
and effective as their facilities will permit.
Just before the performance the desks occ
pying the space that must be used for t
audience are quickly removed, chairs a
placed in rows with a center aisle, shades a
pulled down to darken the room as much .
possible and the workers, together with -me «
bers of their families and friends who ha

For their l930 Christmas play, workers of the N. R. A.
presented "The Woodcutters Christmas" by Linwood Taft.

o
l

 

  
     
 
 
  
   
    
    
    
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  

n invited, are ush-
d to seats. Last year
roup of carol singers
de the round of the
ce. As each depart-
-' t was passed, the
rkers joined the pro-
sion which lead the
y to the little thea-
This very lovely
nner of gathering
people together
'e the audience the
ristmas mood of joy—
ness mingled with
erence and adora—

  

ll
".'

n every organized
up, whether it is '
community, t h e
001 or the church,
ong the many prep-
tions for Christmas
he parties, the carol
ging. the special ser-
es for worship and
providing of gifts
the needy—there is
'ays a little group
0 want to make their contribution in the
m of a play. They may be adults, young
ple or children. The following plays have
n especially selected by Mabel F. Hobbs,”
a consultant, N. R. A., for various groups.
the exception of one new play for men,
recommends only such plays as have stood

est of many productions.

A Few Appropriate Plays

ay be the group of teen age girls who will want
ntribute the Christmas play. If so, “The Waif"
“The Christmas Tree Bluebird" are two plays
h have proved unusually popular with girls of this

HE WAIF by Elizabeth Grimball. Eight characters
extras. The setting is a narrow street with a Na-
. tableau set for the close of the play behind a cur-
This morality play of the twentieth century intro-
. the Christmas Spirit in the guise of a poor waif
is seeking the Golden Star. He becomes weary and
- tened and begs the passers-by—Vanity, Creed.
and Pleasure to help him. They refuse his plea
ith joins him in his search and at last Service
: to their aid guides them to the light. Womans

$.50.

 

A scene from "The Seven Gifts" 0 Christmas
pantomime by Stuart Walker, first given at

the Community Christmas Tree, New York City

CHRISTMAS PLAYS 413

THE CHRISTMAS
TREE BLUEBIRD by
Mary S. Edgar. Three
principal characters and a
number of extras, includ-
ing club members, brown-
ies and tenement children.
Three settings, a sitting
room with a fireplace, a
workshop and a shabby
room. The secenes may
all take place before a plain
back drop with a change
of furniture to designate
the different settings. A
group of girls, inspired by
the story of Maeterlinck’s
“Bluebird,” start on an ad-
venture and find their
Christmas happiness in
bringing the Bluebird to
some poor children. \Vo—
mans Press. $.50.

The boys' group is not
always thought of in con-
nection with the Christmas
play, but whenever the op-
portunity is offered them,
they prove enthusiastic,
capable players. For young-
er boys a better play then
"The Christmas Jest” could
not be found. and if the
group is from fifteen to
eighteen years of age, we suggest one of the beautiful
plays based on the Tolstoi story “\Vhere love is, there

God is also.”

THE CHRISTMAS JEST by Frances \Vickes. In
“A Child’s Book of Holiday Plays.” Six male charac-
ters and two women, easily played by boys. A play in
three short scenes in which the King changes places with
his Jester on Christmas Eve, and thus disguised visits
the lowly homes of his peeple. He discovers that the
Jester is more beloved than the King, and in the end
makes himself the friend of his people by bestowing royal
gifts to the poorest of his subjects. Macmillan. $.80.

THE LEAST OF THESE by Ella \Vilson and Anna
W. Field. Three men, three women and five children.
Men and boys may play all parts. The setting is a bare
room. Martin, an old cobbler, feeds and shelters all the
needy who come to his door on Christmas Eve and dis-
covers that the Christ visits his humble shop in the form
of the familiar poor. Womans Press. $.50.

In the last few years plays in which both adults and
children may play together have become increasingly
popular. We have found it much more interesting to
have a real mother portray the part than to attempt
through the use of wigs and make-up to endow a young
person with a character part in which she can never
be quite convincing. The two following plays have been
given many times with great success.

M 2m --—.—‘£‘-—:

414

THE WOODCUTTER’S CHRISTMAS by Linwood
Taft. A father, mother and five children. On Christmas
Eve the woodcutter goes to town for toys which he has
promised the children. He never reaches the village, for
he finds a babe crying in the woods and takes it to his
home. The children quite forget their toys in their ex-
citement at having the baby and a place is quickly made
for him in their 'hearts as well as their home. They find
in the morning that the child has vanished and his crib
is filled with only such wonderful gifts as the Christ
Child could bring to unselfish children. Eldridge. $.25.

THREE CHRISTMAS WISHES by Caroline de F.
Penniman. Father, mother, Santa Claus,”thr’ee children

and extras. The settings—a living room, children’s bed- .

room and dining room—are made by placing a few simple
pieces of furniture to designate the different rooms against
a plain drop. The Christmas fairies visit a little girl
who has made a very selfish wish. In the morning she
realizes her mistake, makes a new' wish and helps it to
come true. Womans Press. $.50. ‘ 

Nearly every mothers’ club puts on'a play'sometime
during the year and if Christmas is the. time Vchosen. “Two
Christmas Boxes” or “The ’Guest at the Inn” are two of
the best holiday plays available for women. The former

is a good comedy and the latter is a play of religious
feeling.

TWO CHRISTMAS BOXES by Elsie Duncan Yale.
A play in four scenes for eleven 'women. The Ladies’
Aid Society prepares a Christmas box of old~clothihg f0r

a missionary while the president of the' society'has ‘a box"

of beautiful gifts ready to ship to a wealthy relative. The

labels are mixed and the boxes reach the wrong destina-
tions. Eldridge. $.25.

THE GUEST AT THE INN by“ Marion Hol‘brook.
Five women and one child. The setting is a plain room.
Stasia, a young inn keeper, is berated 'by her mother-in-
law for her piety. On Christmas Eve the young woman
makes her preparations to receive the Christ Child and

finds Him in the poor and weary who come.to her inn
for comfort. Eldridge. $.25.

The boys and girls who usually take care of the decor-
ations and the Christmas dance or party may want to

give a play. “Home for the Holidaysf’ “Christmas in

Merrie England” or “Santa at Sea” will afford excellent
opportunities for their particular talent. ' A '

CHRISTMAS IN MERRIE ENGLAND by Mari
Hofer. From thirty to eighty may take part in this cele—
bration of old English songs and customs. Summy. $.25.

HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS by Norton. Twenty-
three characters and extras. 'The setting is a railway
station through which various types' of people pass on
Christmas Eve, bringing humor and pathos. Penn. $.25.

SANTA AT SEA by Yale and Eldridge. Six princi-
pals and extras. An operetta: The plot is “simple but
novel and the music is in one 'and two parts.

meets with an accident and'is picked up at sea.
dridge. $.40. " ‘

Santa
El-

CHRISTMAS PLAYS

r: >-

"E'hQW Chrissy overcame a selfish notion about Christ

- love and respect for him when they discover that it is

   
  
     
   
   
    
  
    
   
  
 
   
    
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 

It' is quite likely that the youngest group will w
have some part in the Christmas celebration. The

lowing simple plays will furnish them with deligh
material.

SANTA CLAU‘S’ BUSY DAY by.Hartman. Tw
characters and extras. One scene. A greedy boy 3
to Santa: Claus for more toys. A- jolly comedy
youngsters. Fitzgerald. $.25.

CHRIss‘Y” IN CHRISTMAS LAND by w
Eighte‘en characters. A simple and pleasing play te

Baker. $.25. . .

A 'CHRISTMAS KALEIDOSCOPE prepared
Community Drama Service. In the Christmas B
A charminglentertainment especially useful for sch
or community groups having children trained in
dancing. .. The King of Mars tires of his ballet of sn
Hakes and icicles and the cold hue and silver of M
He demands colors that have never been seen in his 1
'before——red, yellow, ,rose and green. A messenger m
trips to «the earth, bringing dancers'from the vari
countries, wearing their bright, warm-hued costumes.
last Santa himself visits Mars to see what his -.
children are doing on that planet. The Christmas B

contains many other delightful. suggestions. Nati
Recreation Association. $.50.

While the fathers usually ,form a very subst
background at Christmas time, there is always the u
bility t‘hat‘they may be induced to take an active p
The new play “Dad” ought to be a good reason for m
fathers deciding to give a play. I

p

DAD by Paul Moffett. ,Nine men. A plain‘ inter
Dad’s prosperous sons are ashamed of his shabby cloth
and the old run-down house in which he lives with e
an old darky to look after him. They acquire a dee

many acts of kindness that keep him in a state of se

poverty., A strong play with excellent .character pa
Dramatic Publishing Company. $.35.

List of Publishers

Walter H. Baker Company,'41” Winter Street, Bost
Mass. ‘ ' '

Dramatic Publishing Company, 542 South 'Dearb
Street, Chicago. '

Eldridge Entertainment House, Franklin, Ohio.

Fitzgerald Publishing Corporation, 18 Vesey Str
New Yonk City. ' "

Macmillan. Company, 66 ifth AvenuefNew York Ci

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Aven
New York City. , :-

Penn Publishing Company, 925 Filbert_Street, Phi
delphia, Pa. -. .

Clayton F. Su-mmy Company, 429 South Wab
Avenue, Chicago, Ill: " '

The Womans Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New Y
City.

Plea //

the better ideas. But we are about to have
again the best possible occasion for doing
these things, a hundred times better than
any other that could be devised. Christmas
is coming!

Let us make the most of this best of. holi-
days with its joy, friendliness and hope, its
power to awaken again in each one of us

For   the child that we were or have longed to be.

 

   

The supreme symbol of the Christmas spirit
is the Holy Child of the Christians, but its
essential meaning is so fundamental in hu-
man nature that the people of every sect
and race may enter freely into its spirit.
Rooted in the happy ceremonies and feast-
ing that all northern peoples had as pagans
carried on to celebrate the winter solstice——
the return of the light—it has Howered in
the celebration of the birth of the child.who
is beloved by Christians as the Light of the
World. But even the pagans seem to have
looked upon the natural event, the rebirth
of the sun, as a time for a new beginning
in their own lives, for a renewal of hope,
joy and good-will among themselves. The
o-‘____-~ evergreen trees, and the holly, mistletoe and
ivy, are all symbols of the everlasting youth

-of life, as is the child, every child. Every
boy or girl is, in a sense, holy,

bringing the hope of a better-

F THE innermost wishes of By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG than-what-is; and holy also is

every person in the land
were all to be spoken at

e and truly, there would be millions of cries
1' food, clothing, shelter, and security for the
ture. But amidst those cries there would arise
great, universal prayer for a better state of
nd—cheerful, kindly, fired by a vision of social
odness and well-being, and valorous to realize
“Renew our hearts, make us realize again the
redness and everlasting youth of the human
irit in each of us, rouse our wills with a pur-
se worth striving for.” This would be the
ayer if the real need could be heard, though
is sometimes expressed by brutal protests and
ten by disaffection, grouchiness, and by nar-
- 1 ing statements and acts of fear by public offi-

' ls as well as by private individuals.
TIf we were to try to help in answering that
ayer, we would probably think of bringing
ut a national “cheer-up week.” We would
u for some way and some occasion for arous-

; the better attitude and gaining acceptance of
l

 

the joyous, kindly and self-for-
getful spirit of childhood that
is in every man and woman.

This time of rebirth or re-creation offers us
not only one of the primary oportunities of the
year for community and home recreation, through
caroling, gathering around the lighted trees and
through festivals, plays and other happy obser-
vances; it offers us also a clear view of human
nature at its best, of a state of being which,
while it is not the only kind that people seek and
need in recreation, is supremely good and is all
too rarely realized in prevailing sorts of recrea-
tional activity. So let there be caroling in all
parts of the city, and simple Christmas plays and
festivals.

So much has already been written about carol-
ing and how it may be brought ab0ut, that it
seems unnecessary to say more with regard to
it. Through c00peration- with their leaders,
groups of carolers can be formed in schools,

(Continued on page 449)

415

-:-I-

The
Toboggan

Slide

1TH predictions of a cold
Wwinter ahead, winter sports

enthusiasts are hoping for
a greater opportunity than was
permitted last year by the weather
man to enjoy the fun which snow
and ice make possible. While a
good cold day, hard crusty snow
and ice, in themselves are ingredi-
ents for a good time, certain facili—
ties add much to the enjoyment of
winter fun. Among these the to—
boggan slide is outstanding as a
“joy producer.”

On almost the smallest kind of
hill with a gradual slope, leading
to an out-run of a few hundred
feet, a most satisfactory toboggan
slide can be constructed for the use
of both children and adults. A
slide on such a hill,'bui1t of snow
and ice without a trestle of any
kind or a steep incline, thus pro-
hibiting excessive speed, meets
with general public favor and en—
courages participation. T h e s e
slides are practically fool-proof and accident-
proof. The following suggestions are offered for

selecting a site and preparing for the construction
of a slide. '

Selecting the Site
I. As far as possible the site for a toboggan
slide should face north or northeast. '

2. The space required is approximately 12 feet
wide and from 300 to 1,200 feet in length. Avoid

416

 

Courtesy Commissioner of Parks and Cemeteries, Saginaw, Michigan.

making slide too long. The trough of the 31
should be only two inches wider than a tobog
and continue throughout the entire length of
slide.

3. Height of sides of slide should be as follox
Hill with gradual slope—on hill, 4”; on le
1%”. Hill with steep slope—0n hill, 8”;
level 4” graduating to 1%”.

4. The end of the trail should be free fr
trees, boulders, or any other obstructions.

 
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   

5. Since weather and slide conditions affect
distance toboggans will travel, it may be
essary to build a slight “up-grade” at end of
e to prevent the toboggans from going too

Sand and sawdust also help to slow down
oggans. Traffic or other dangers may make
advisable to stop toboggans at a certain point.

6. Avoid having curves or sharp bumps. If
re are curves the toboggans may strike the
es of the slide and may jump out of the trough.
““wavy” surface or gradual inclines are desir-
le in a slide—but be careful to avoid bumps
lit.

7. As far as possible, build slides while the
perature is about 5 to 20 degrees above zero.
wever, construction can be carried on in 20
recs below zero weather.

8. When crowds are using the slide, it is
essary to have a starter to prevent toboggans
1n starting too soon, and to give the preceding
oggan riders an opportunity to “clear the

ck ”

9. Eight-foot toboggans with steel runners
e beSt results. Steel or iron runners of
” x V2” stock should extend throughout the
length of the toboggan including the
rved front. Three such
nners are fastened with
ts and nuts, not screws, to
center of the two outside

N
ha-
’1
(D

the toboggan.

t of Supplies and Equipment
General Supplies

. thermometer

arpenter’s Spirit level
stable shovels

snow shovels

to 450’—l-inch garden hose
1” garden hose nozzle nesota_
axe, S. B.
apickaxe
"—pickaxe handle
—galvanized pails

300'—‘/$-inch rope
l—carpenter’s hammer

—brooms l—pair pliers
—tool box l—hand ice scraper
—rlirst aid kit l—whetstone

Special Supplies for Plan No. I

—bricklayer’s trowel l—galvanized washtub
IL—pointed l—l%” Rigby frame
I)’-—shoemal(er's string 1—4” Rigby frame
sprinkling can 14” Rigby frame ,
0-pcnny nails l—Rigby starting frame

For this material we are indebted to the
Winter Sports and Recreation Division of

the Minnesota Arrowhead Association of
d middle WOOd runners Of which Mr. B. G. Leighton is the director. make a heavy SIuSh 0f snow

3 lObOggan- This gives The Division, realizing the potentialities and water’ Startmg at_b0tt°m
d i t i 0 n 31 speed and of the Winter attractions of North- Of Slope and working to“
engthr and attends the life eastern Minnesota,is mobilizing interests, Wards the top, Covermg the

promoting programs, issuing bulletins of course With 5111511 2 inChcs
information, holding institutes and help- (1639' Use a briCklayer,s
ing in every possible way to coordinate: tr 0 w e} to make surface
dramatize and publicize already existing smOOth- This methOd re’
winter sports opportunities. Further in- (Wires less water and Shoum
formation may be secured from Mr. be “sad Where water must
Leighton at Village Hall, Hibbing, Min- be Carried and a hydrant is

THE TOBOGGAN SLIDE 417

C. Special Supplies for Plan No. 2

2—10’ starting handles lZ—stakes 1"x2'x4'

l—frame for toboggan 3—sacks of sand
slide former (Minneap- 12'—%" rope
olis design)

Suggestions for Constructing the Slide. Plan No. I

I. After selecting the site for the toboggan
slide, see that all obstacles such as trees, stumps
and boulders are removed.

2. Fill in deep depressions with snow thor-
oughly packed and soaked with water. Look out
for seepage of water.

3. Along the course of the slide and on the
slope fill in with snow about 18 inches deep and
3 feet wide.

4. Starting at the bottom of the slope, spray
the snow with water, working towards the top
of the hill. At the same time, stamp down the
snow and make surface smooth. Look out for
seepage of water. This method pre-supposes
that a water hydrant and hose are available. In
the farm communities or forest regions apparatus
similar to the forest fire-fighting pumps and hose
are excellent for this purpose.

5. Repeat process on the level section of the
course with snow about 12 inches deep, stamping
down thoroughly and mak-
ing as smooth as possible.

6. Another method of
building a foundation is to

not available.

7. After the foundation
has frozen solidly, start from the top of the hill
and lay out a guide line about 12 inches to the
left of the center and along the course. Use 300
feet of shoemaker’s string and 60 penny nails
or stakes. Nails should be used as stakes and
placed 25 feet apart. The line will mark the left
inside top edge of the trough.

8. Then, starting at the bottom of the slope
and working towards the t0p, place the 4" Rigby

 

418

FRAME. FOR
TOBOGGRN SLIDE FORMER

/
RIGBY DESIGN 5cm: if..." / \
..o" \

A

W
ZPCS-l“14" 14"02'
2 PCS.-i"x4'-x 23".
IPC. - r-K 2"x42."

NHILS
NOTE, Two OTHER names nae NEEDED.

This frame for toboggan slide former, (Rigby design), is an
important feature in the construction suggested for Plan No. 1.

frame for toboggan slide former parallel to and
just touching the guide line.' (See drawing of

Rigby frame.) If slope is very steep use the
8-inch frame. I

9. Pack in heavy slush against the sides of
the frame and slope it outwards, making surface
smooth with a pointed bricklayer’s trowel. Ad-
vance the frame and smooth over inside surface
of the newly constructed side of trough, with
trowel. This smoothing over process with the
trowel helps to fill in creases, glosses and hardens.
the surface, and helps prevent
seepage of water. This glossing
process is very important.

10. Repeat this process along
the entire length of the slide on
the slope and on the guide line-
side of the frame only.

II. After one side of the
trough has been built and frozen
solidly, place the frame at the bot—
tom of slope snug against the
newly constructed side. Using the
same method described above,
build the other side of 'the trough.

12. To build the sides of the
trOugh on the level the same meth-
od is employed as on the slope
except that a I'%” Rigby frame
is used. '

I3. The starting frame (see
drawing) is placed at the top of

THE TOBOGGAN SLIDE

aom nee mam. ancmr
as new: EACEPT 5:06; or on: like ti" 1» morn am 9'1» worn m Tm: OTHER.

 

I easier and safer.

RIGBY DESIGN -.
, {sane-l‘fJLO"

The starting frame for the toboggan slide, which is
‘of Rigby design, is used as a continuation of the tre

   
   
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
   
 
  
     
    
      
      
 
   
 

the hill in such a way that it
be a continuation. of the tro
_Fill inside with slush. to w
two inches of top edge of fr
making a smooth sloping su
that will be a continuation 0
bottom of the .trough. To
I frame in place slush is p
' around the frame.

I4. From 8 to IO feet
the end of the starting fra
6-inch square hole about
inches deep is cut in the cent
the trough.‘ By inserting the
end of a pickaxe handle in
hole and holding the other e
the handle, the starter is ab
hold a toboggan in place un

is loaded and ready to slide «
the hill.

15. Before using slide, eli

ate all ice projections, bumps and sharp e
A hand ice scraper, sharpened with a %” s
on-one side and V3” bevel on other side is
cellent for this.
I6. On the path returning to the top of
hill and on the slope, steps or footholds cut
the hardened snow will make the return
If the hill becomes icy, c

“Fl-R

with sand.
17. Where the lower course of the tobo
slide continues on a frozen lake surface, the s

TSTHRTINCL FRAME
FOR TOBOGG'AN stint.

 

 

ZPcs - £“x8‘x8t0'z 1*:
2 Pas - gum 4‘-0'2
39m- 2' (4'1th
3': - gas-52.2%?
ch. -=}'x6-x22§1
ZPcs. - i“: 2' :16"

°‘ 2965-133] 3- x a: "

anlé

THE TOBOGGAN SLIDE 419
l
8. Using stable shovels, pack
the snow against the sides of the
frame sloping it outwards. Use
only clean snow, since any foreign
material, such as leaves, grass or
paper makes the sides of the slide
w more pervious to the sun.

I 9. Move the frame down hill,

 

7 name. Fon

ObOGGAN SLIDE FOR ME R

. to or PAth COMMISSIONERS.MINNEAPOUS.MINN.
talc lm.‘ HI.

I. of MATERIAL
. mus I‘A 5"!°'-¢1'Mat¢n4 Lon-bu- 40 Far
' pisses 1'A|1"2'-£‘ "
picec l' I It- 5'0" "

 

l E’nar'il" 'l
ICW

sighting it in place with the stakes
and then repeat the process of
packing the snow.

10. When approximately 200
feet of the slide, or trough, have
been finished, start sprinkling the
_ sides, applying only a very fine
__,_____________--_-l:-_--___-___________,_;:___,___-,---,_----___ spray. Use a garden hose with a

nozzle. It is necessary to go over

. n No. 2 calls for the toboggan slide formerly used the entire slide many times to
the Board of Park Commissloners of Minneapolls. make Sure that the water pene_

 
 

l

i' trates through the walls.
; ]d be cleared off on a course 12 feet wide. II. It is important to see that the sides are
2” trough should be built, through the middle not rough and that no sharp edges stick out which
the course, and on the ice surface, to the end may cut the hands of the toboggan riders.
the trail. - ' ‘ 12. If the temperature is too severe, difficulty
will be experienced in making the water penetrate
No. 2 the snow. It will freeze a hard crust on the out-
I- After selecting the site' for the toboggan side, preventing any more water from soaking in.
e. 569 that 3“ ObStaCICS SUCh 35 trees; stumps, Such a crust will not stand up well and will need
lders are removed. cbnstant patching, .
9. Fill in deep depressions with snow thor- I 3. When the path back to the top of the slide
hly packed and soaked with water. Look out becomes hardened, steps can be easily made with
seepage of water. ' a spade or pickaxe. Instead of steps, small foot-

Mark the course of the slide
ut every 100 feet with four-
stakes.

Place the frame of the to-
an slide former at the brow of
hill and sight the form in place
' ‘ stakes set out for the course
the slide. (See drawing of
'i e for toboggan slide former
inneapolis design.)
Place two or three sacks of
in the frame to give weight
it, thus helping to pack the
'~ in the bottom of the slide.

To draw frame along or. to
t. in place, attach to front of
' e a %” rope 12 feet long.

Use a spirit level to .make

that the frame 15 not leaning - Ths toboggan slide starting handle is important since
‘ ays- . it prevents ths toboggan from starting unexpectedly.

TOBO'GGHN SLIDE STHRTWG HANDLE

MINNEAPOLIS DESIGN

   
 
  
   
 
   
 
     

      
      

wgw-

I - If 00th A Io‘-0"
3 " TIN STRAPS- 3': IO?
JIM.- 2'11‘xlz',
3h: - I”: in: Iz'.‘

       
    
 
  
    
    

420 THE TOBOGGAN SLIDE

holds may be chopped in_ the hardened snow.
Where the slope is very steep, it is desirable to
build a stairway.

I4. Extend the slide or trough back from the
brow of the hill about 15 feet and on a grade so
that the end of the slide is about I5 inches above
the ground. The sides of the trough of this 15-
foot section should be gradually reduced in depth
from II inches to 2 inches at the end or starting
point.

I 5. A 10-foot toboggan slide starting handle,
one at each side of the slide, should be installed
five feet from the starting point. This handle
gives the riders a chance to keep their toboggan
from starting before everyone is seated and
ready. The handles are set in place so that they
are about two inches above the sides of the
trough and are frozen in the side walls with short

stakes.- (See drawing of toboggan slide starting
handle.)

Suggestions for Care of Slide

I. Heavy slush of snow and water mixed in
a pail or tub makes excellent material for patch-
ing a slide.

2. Sections of a slide that are exposed to the
sun, or on warm days, can be kept in condition
by covering with a thick blanket of snow, pine
branches or gunny sacks. _ '

3. To compensate for the wear and tear on a
slide, it is well each day to sprinkle with a line
spray of water after the slide has been swept
clear of snow and other foreign material. The
sides and bottom of the trough should soon be-
come smooth as glass.

4. Hot water sprayed on a slide will improve
and toughen the sliding surface.

5. Inspect the slide each day for projections,
rough edges, or broken sections.

6. Use a hand ice scraper to cut off projec-
tions, rough edges, humps, or rough surfaces.

The scraper should be sharpened with one edge '

bevelled about %” and the other edge bevelled
%;”, and kept with a razor-like edge by using a
whetstone frequently.

7. If slide becomes too fast, this can be reme-
died by snow, sawdust, or sand.

Instructions to Starter
I. You are the host. Those using the slide

are your guests. Consequently, your attitude will
-almost invariably determine the attitude of the
“guests” and will help to eliminate many prob-
lems of discipline. A smile is contagioUS. The

   
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 

right social atmosphere around the slide is
important and should be encouraged and
veloped.

2. Enforce all rules firmly and courteou

3. If it is necessary to leave your post,
some other worker or adult to take your n
temporarily.

4. See that the rules governing the use of
slide are placed where they can be easily s

5. See that the slide and the toboggans a
repair and safe to use at all times.

6. Open and close slide at the times sched

7. Enforce the curfew law. Children sh
be discouraged from using the slide at night.
courage adults to attend at night.

8. Keep supplies and equipment locked in
box.

'9. Use discretion in mixing children, ad
and certain “undesirables” on the same tobog
Tact'fully encourage homogeneous grouping
riders.

Rules Governing Use of Slide

1. Sliding is allowed only on the slides.

2. Standing or kneeling on toboggans is
allowed.

3. Toboggans should not be overcrowded
riders.

4. Foremost rider should not extend
over front of toboggan.

5. Riders must face front, not ride backwa
or sideways.

6. Person in front must hold up legs of -
son behind him.

,7. Do not' extend legs or arms outward f
toboggan.

8. Never try to tip or upset a toboggan w
it is in motion.

9. “Clear the track” as soon as possible at
end of the slide.

10. Look out for on-coming toboggans.

II. Return ,to top of hill on the path provi
for this purpose.

I2. Throwing snow in face of riders w
traveling on the slide is prohibited.

A Few_ General Suggestions

Notices .
The Winter Sports and Recreation Diviswn

the Minnesota Arrowhead Association, in iss
information regarding toboggan slides and bu
the-bumps, offers the suggestion that not

(Continued on page 450)

 

: A "Turn Over a New Leaf" Party

ERHAPS resolutions are made
to be broken, but New Year's

 
  
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
    
  
 
   

’ing solemn promises to “turn

r a new leaf.” It is a kind of

nnial rejuvenation when we pack away old
Ibles and take a new breath for the next
’5 race. Why not make this year’s watch—
it party a “Turn Over a New Leaf Party”
hat all can make their good resolutions at the
'. time. Perhaps the strength in numbers
I make it easier to live up to this year’s good
nnons!

This particular par-
ty is suggested for
home socials or par--
ties for small groups.
Some of the ideas
may be suitable for
larger affairs, but oth-
ers would not be
practicable.

W'rite the invitation
on a leaf cut-out in
two colors. This can
made with two-tone paper obtainable at almost

stationery store. The paper should be folded
< cut as shown in the accompanying diagram.
careful not to cut to the edge of the paper
1g A B or you will have two single leaves
ad of one double one. On the outside leaf
te, “This is an old leaf. Turn it over.” And
the inside, write the following:

The Invitation

lanning to turn over a new leaf in 1933?
f you are, join our party on New Year’s Eve

The Decorations

he theme suggests the decorations. Artificial
es can be bought in any large department
' or can be made simply and inexpensively
crepe paper and wire. If you can plan to

By MARY J. BREEN

Eve will always be a time for National Recreation Association Cut out all the leaves

make them yourself, select a crepe
paper design having many leaves.
Paste two

of a kind together, leaving a small

opening to insert the stem made
by wrapping thin wires with green crepe paper.
If you want greater variety make cardboard pat-
terns of a number of different types of leaves
and cut them out of solid colored crepe paper in
various hues. Vivid fall colors, although not in
season, will contrast effectively with the rich red

and green of Christmas holly wreaths and ever-
greens.

An attractive table centerpiece can be made as
follows: Select three boxes of graduated size
having a square or round base. Each box should
be not more than four inches high. Cover the
outside of the boxes with crepe paper leaves.
Paste on only a part of the leaf so that the leaves
will overlap each other and the boxes when cov-
ered will not look flat and stiff. The largest box
forms the foundation and is placed on a bed of
evergreens and holly. The next largest is placed
on the top of this and the smallest one on top of
the second. On the smallest, which should be
at least 8 inches square or 8 inches in diameter,
put two stout red Christmas candles of the same
circumference but of different heights. These,
of course, symbolize the old and the new years.

To carry the idea
further place a large
and a small red birth-
day candle at each
place. The holders
for these candles can
be made by twisting
paper covered wire
around each candle
and into a center coil'
as illustrated in the

diagram. To the cen-
ter coil attach a pair of holly leaves and a place-

card tied with red ribbon. (A cardboard leaf
under the candles will protect the tablecloth.)

421

The Candle Holder

422 A “TURN OVER A NEW LEAF” PARTY

Light the candles just before the guest's enter the
dining room.

The Program
When the guests arrive present each one with
ten acorns or dried berries and a name card. Re-
quest them to display the latter prominently.
These name cards should also be leaf cut-outs.
They can be made of thin cardboard or mat stock
which is firmer than crepe paper and smooth
enough to write on. Punch a hole in each one
and draw a piece of colored string through it so
that the guests can fasten the name cards to their
button-holes or their dress trimmings easily.
On one side write the name of the guest and
a number. To pair off guest‘s write the same
number on two cards and give one to a man and
one to woman. On the other side of the leaf
write, “I resolve to turn over a new leaf and not
to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. This takes effect
immediately.” Write the reso-
lutions yourself to be sure they

are appropriate. Select those Many interesting old customs are game is good for at least a

.a point is awarded the group to which he belo

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 

tures of leaves of various kinds. The first pe
to recognize a leaf calls out its name. If cor

The members of the group receiving the gre
number of points are absolved from the re
tions made on their arrival.

Scrap Book Leaves. Give eaCh Person 3 '
book with pages made of brown wrapping p

These can be fastened together with heavy
or colored ribbon. Paste a colored leaf 0
cover and write on it the name of one 0
guests present. Distribute magazines, straight
and scissors and instruct the guests to pin in
scrap books pictures illustrating the life 0
person whose name appears on the cover. Be
no one present illustrates his own scrap book
that no one except the person making the '
book sees it until it is finished. When al
complete, exhibit them separately and have

author of each_book ex

the “why” of each picture.

which poke good-natured fun
at your guests’ personal idio—
cyncracies and which are sim-
ple enough to fulfill dUring the
evening. The following reso-
lutions are suggested as possi-
bilities. Choose others if these
do not fit your particular guests.

associated with New Year's. In
certain'parts of England it was
customary, as soon as the clock
struck twelve on New Year's Eve,
for the young people to rush off
to the nearest spring of water.
The first one to taste the water
drawn, which was called the"cream
of the well," might expect to have
good luck during the coming year.

hour, and is a sure fire
maker. “

 
   
   

Scouting for Leaves.
the letters of the alphab

cards about four inches sq
Prepare three sets of these
ters omitting from the last
sets such letters as q, x, y a

I. Bow each time you ad-

dress a lady.
2. Clear your throat before answering any

questions.

3. Do not speak affectionately to your wife
until after you leave the party.

4. Talk about your pet theory of government
whenever you can get anyone to listen to you.

5. Do not laugh audibly unless your partner
nods her head and gives you permission to.

6. Say “sir” whenever addressed by a gentle-
man.

Partners are responsible for seeing that their
better-halves live up to their resolutions. Every
time a person breaks his resolution he gives one
of his acorns to his partner. Those who have
no acorns left at 12 o’clock perform a group
stunt for the lucky ones who have been able to
keep their promises.

The games suggested for the evening follow:

Leaf Guessing. Divide the party into groups
of four. Hold up before them cut-outs or pic-

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Shufiie the cards. Then, hol

them face downward turn
card up at a time saying each time, “Name a
starting with this letter.” The first player
gives the correct answer receives the card. I
one answers in five seconds return the card to
pack. The person holding the highest nu
of cards after the pack has been gone thro
three times is declared the winner.

“LieP' Pantomimes, Since you’ve had a cha
to wish resolutions on your guests it is only
that they be given a chance to do a little w
thinking themselves. For this game give a
one a leaf cut—out similar to the name card
which is written “I’d just as ‘lief’ be a . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .. as a
“Lief” means to prefer, of course. Inst
each guest to write in the first space the typ
person he would like to be if he had a chanc
change his destiny and in the second space
present occupation. When filled in, the c

(Continued on page 450)

 

l The volunteer Leader

 
  
   
    
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
  

i

may be served.

read as follows :

your organization will be interested in lend-
s help.
ecause of the very rapid growth of the
r Girls Club during the depression we are
cting an extremely large registration this fall.
re hoping not to have to turn away many of
little girls, but our budget does not allow
r hire the required number of leaders for our
t membership. If we can, however, rein-
- our staff with volunteer workers to assist
egular leaders, we can better meet the need
presents itself to us.
' e realize that in the city there are many
g people trained for service for whom posi-
will not be available this year. We believe
it would be to their advantage as well as
if they would give some of their time and
'ng to our organization.
order to find the best of them we are ask-
hat each woman’s organization in the city
r nd and help us make a contact with one
1 woman willing to give two hours of one
oon a week during the winter months.
e requirements for this volunteer leader-
re sincerity, dependability and a genuine
. for girls. The scope of our program is
enough for the volunteer to choose almost
isure time activity. Those in which we most
assistance are gymnasium. dramatic, music,
nursing and game room participation. No
e preparation is required as the volunteers

.v 15 YEAR the Worcester Girls Club is using volunteers
to supplement the regular leaders so that more girls

' . a first step a letter was sent all of the college clubs
to certain picked women’s organizations in the city
effort to reach young people just out of college. The

he question has often been asked by members of
organizations, ‘What definite thing can our organi-
n do to help the work of the Worcester Girls Club?’
ry definite need has arisen this year and I am hoping

g _ in the Recreation Program

As was announced in the November
issue of Recreation, we are planning
to publish a number of articles on
the important subiect of volunteer
leadership. This month we are giving

you the experiences of a number of
recreation workers who, during the
past few months, have conducted ac-
tivities with the help of volunteers.

 

will be placed with trained leaders who will plan
the work.

“Last year the jUnior membership reached
1,680 and was closed for lack of facilities to serve
more girls. The aggregate attendance in the year’s
activity program was 32,051 or 9,832 greater than
the preceding year. We have made a good begin-
ning in work for underprivileged girls in the city,
but we need the interest and cooperation of every-
one in order to keep from losing ground during
this depression time.

“May I have an early answer from you so that
I may know if your organization will help?”

The response to the letter was gratifying and
has had the result of creating a new interest in
the Girls Club on the part of the organizations
approached.

A number of married women with splendid ,
background and college training responded. They
were especially willing to give time when they
were assured that no large amountiof outside pre-
paration was necessary since they were to assist
trained leaders.

Each woman volunteer was asked to fill out a
blank, stressing the fact that the agreement was
a signed contract made in good faith and pro-
viding that the number of hours promised should
be covered by a substitute when the volunteer
could not herself be present. The blank asked for
the following information:

423

 

424 THE VOLUNTEER LEADER IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Do you like girls? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

What ages do you prefer? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
What part of the program interests you particu-

‘ larly? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
l/V ill you be absolutely responsible for covering
‘ certain hours every week? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H ow many? . . . . . . . . . What day? . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Through the volunteer leadership plan it has
been possible to take care of practically all the
larger groups at the Club except a few gymna-
sium classes.

In a Southern City

Last summer the Department of Recreation and
Playgrounds of Lynchburg, Virginia, used vol-
unteers with splendid results. No definite appeal
for volunteers was made, but several playground
leaders who had been employed in previous years,
a number of orphanage girls, several associated
charity workers and a few college girls and boys
offered their services. In most instances the De—
partment offered to pay the carfare of these
workers.but few of these offers were accepted.
All the volunteers attended a short training course
before starting in work. After the closing of the
playground season many of
them continued to volun-
teer in handcraft activities
and in entertaining the sick
and patients at the children’s hospital.
During the winter they will assist with
basketball and boxing.

Volunteers for New Bedford’s
Playgrounds

.For the first time in four years the
children of New Bedford, Massachusetts,
last summer enjoyed playgrounds. Since
1928 the city has lacked funds for proper
equipment and leadership. This year, with
the need greater than ever, the Standard
Mercury of which Basil Brewer is pub-
lisher, took the lead in providing the chil—
dren with safe play Spaces. A local com- -
rqittee was formed headed by Charles N.

In storytelling many volunteers are finding
a fascinating field for playground service.

Serpa, local attorney, to organize play cent

On the committee were Chief of Police McLe
School Superintendent Keith and Father 1
Keon, head of Catholic Welfare. Sub-com

tees were appointed to take charge of finan
personnel and equipment. One of the chief l
jectives of the campaign was to secure volunt
play leaders who would work under the lead
ship of two experienced playground work
serving as field supervisors. One hundred .
fifty volunteer play leaders were called for; m
than two hundred individuals responded. Th
workers were assigned to the six city parks 1
periods of service ranging from a few hour
week to six days. The plan involved keeping u
centers open until Labor Day and establish'
additional centers as personnel and equipm
were available. All leadership and much equ
ment were donated, including two cars for the

of the supervisors. The Standard Mercury rai
a fund for the purchase of equipment.

In a Louisiana City

Three years ago when the Monroe, Louisia
Recreation Board was organized there were .
trained leaders for the playgrounds. It was u
cided to hold a training course for voluntee
As a result of this, twelve people became volu
teer playground workers and no paid worke
were employed. The following winter one of t
summer volunteer workers was taken on the st
as an employed worker. In the spring two ad
tional after-school playgrounds were opened, a
in employing workers pre
erence was again given v
unteers who had worked I

(Continued on page 451)

 

Courtesy Greenwich, Coma, Recreation Board

l

   
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  

’t' ith

‘. oture in Winter

l
lb .
', stroll through the woods at

i

 ’. time of the year will lead
to Fascinating adventures.

‘l
i HE GROWING season is definitely over, and
many wild things are lying down to rest until
the spring awakening. Trees have with-
wn the sap from their limbs which are leafless
r, but the buds for next year are schrely cov-
o by the tough scales which protect them from
changing weather. Humbler plants are dor-
- t under the blanket of dead leaves, and others
live again only in their offspring. Their seeds
. - been scattered in myriad ways and in the
. en ground wait the call to life.
i - oodchucks have been sleeping since the mid-
of October. They have grown so fat on lus-
s clovers and
ses during
summer that
rdless of the
that there
' '11 may be
ty of food,
give them-
es up to the
it of lethargy
' h steals over
' at this time
settle down
a long, lazy
~ until Feb-
second at
‘ ! Do they
‘ waken then
- what the
er is?
skes are hi-
ting, too.
e t i m e s :1
er will coil

themselves into a compact mass where they re-
main inert and apparently lifeless until the warm

rays of the sun start the sluggish blood to cir-

culating and stirring them to movement.

Earthworms have burrowed below the frost
line, and if some courageous ruhin has decided to
remain for the winter he must look elsewhere for
meat. Let us put out some snet for him when the
ground freezes. Nail or tie it to the limb of a
tree. Many other birds will be grateful for it. too,
in their own way.

\Voolly-bear caterpillars, the larvae of the Isa-
bella moth, seem hurrying to find the crevice in
which to construct the felted cocoon which they
make of their hairy clothing. Changing seasons
apparently mean little to them as they may be
seen even in midwinter when a warm spell allows
them to go abroad.

In grassy lands the meadow mouse has built a
nest lined thickly with soft grasses, while the
deer mouse has taken possession of some cavity
in a hollow log or tree or an abandoned bird’s
nest, and has lined it with cotton or wool. These
tiny mammals do not sleep through the cold
months but are alert to escape the talons of owls
flying silently through the dusk in search of just

such delicious morsels as mice will afford them.
(Continued on page 451)

In the season when animals are hibernating and Na-
ture sleeps, many “humans” become unusually active!

 

425

Recreational

Features
ol:

County

Ol'

Metropolitan
Parks

THE importance of the

county or metropolitan

park in the scheme of
recreation is demonstrated
by the fact that the greatest
growth in any of the branch—
es of park development in
the city, rural, metropolitan
or regional, state and na—
tional, has been along this
line. A total of 3,000,000
people visited the national
parks in the past year with
a full share of that attend-
ance originating close to
each of the several parks.
One authority has stated that
over 63,000,000 people vis-
ited metropolitan parks in 38
counties in the United States
in 1930. In Cook County,
the Chicago area, the annual
patronage exceeds the 15,-
000,000 mark, and at Pitts-
burgh, the Allegheny County
parks drew over 2,000,000

426

 

Eight miles of picturesque
bridle paths wind through
the beautiful Five hundred
acres at Sand Run Reser-
vation without a single
crossing of the three mile
parkway. The construction
ol: bridle paths is now quite
generally accepted as an
essential function at the
metropolitan park.

  
    
  
  
     
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  

By H. S. WAGN

Director

Akron, Ohio
Met'rOpolitan Pork Distri

visitors in 1930. :
two parks aggregating
acres have been esta
in the past four year
1930 the estimated a
ance in the Cleveland’s
ropolitan park area was
3,000,000. In the Alle
metropolitan park area i
first year of its availa
to the public and with
ing more than special f
ties for picnicking and
ing, over 500,000 people
advantage of a single m
politan park.

The automobile has p1
—and will continue to y
—a very important par
this iield, for although
tional and state parks
similar to metropolitan p
in that they all strive to 5
vide primitive and mat
conditions of flora and fa
the most local of the t
maintains ,the greatest
peal. National parks are
country’s iinal expressio
our many types of lands
and state parks are t
those with state—wide ins
of national limitations. C
paratively few people
reach all of the nati
parks, although many
one or several of these
jestic areas. Undoubted
larger percentage of our I
ple will reach many of t
own state parks rather

‘ l RECREATIONAL FEATURES OF COUNTY PARKS 427

 

esy Westchester County Park Commission

se of other states,
t is it not reasonable
believe that metropoli—
parks will continue
serve, especially in a local way, a far greater
mber of peOple and at much less cost? All of
se parks are reached by the automobile with
partial exception of the national parks which
still patronized largely by those who use the
lroads to reach them. Only a few of the state
l’ rks are served by railroad or electric lines. It
: 'glit not be unreasonable to say "that .the state
‘ rk is served nearly one hundred per_ cent by
- automobile, and this is even more true of the
ropolitan park.

0

n other words, from the standpoint of the
ple whom we try to serve, national parks lie
the end of a journey that may come at best
e a year. State parks are places to travel to

the Fourth of July, Labor Day or during a

ation. Metropolitan parks, on the other hand,
ear to contribute their very heavy patronage
the fact that they lie quite generally close

ugh to the metropolitan centers to permit
ching by an hour’s drive or less. Accordingly
serve every day in the year and they permit

' use by the people of the nearby congested
s that greatly exceeds the restricted week-end

1 holiday use which is the rule in the case of
state or national areas.

Recreational Features

Recreational features of the metropolitan parks

Many county park systems are fortunate in having
natural beaches and facilities for water sports

will vary greatly in many
centers. Much is depend-
ent upon the facilities pro-
vided by the small park
and private endeavors in
the region. The metropol-
itan area will always pro-
vide completely for those
who must necessarily en-
joy passive forms of rec-
reation. The very young
and those of mature age
must ever find complete
enjoyment from the in-
spiration that contact with
the out-of-doors alone can
provide. Recreation after
all is a process that is per-
sonal and individual. \Ve
may provide the individ—
ual with opportunities
so numerous as substan-
tially to prevent failure,
but the change is not a
mass but an individual transition. Fine landscapes
are an essential part of—they are a most impor-
tant feature of—met‘ropolitan parks.

GOLF. Foremost among features for active
recreation is undoubtedly golf. Whether or not
a metropolitan district should supply facilities
for playing golf depends upon whether or not
adequate and satisfactory provisions at reasonable
prices exist through either public or private en-
deavor. The establishment of a golf course should
follow study which certifies demand. That golf
courses are proper features of metropolitan parks
is accepted as a fact. They serve large masses
of players; they are easily fitted into a natural
landscape and require few structures to litter up
that landscape.

BASEBALL AND FOOTBALL. Regulation baseball
and football with their following of player and
Spectator do not have the place in the metropoli-
tan park which indoor playground ball has.
Wherever it proves proper to build stadia there
it is, of course, recognized necessary to provide
baseball and football fields. In most cases other
than this regulation baseball and football fields
will almost certainly be limited to provisions of
a quality lower than in the city playground. Their
establishment, we might agree, would only sup-
plement the city held.

 

428

In place Of the regulation baseball field we be-
lieve that indoor or playground ball should be
amply provided for. NO metropolitan park has
come to my attention which has had tOO many
open spaces permitting this game. Inasmuch as
it is played by Old and young, boys and girls,
men and women, it has become a family game.
A less refined turf provides a satisfactory surface
and the smaller, requisite area is, Of course, an
advantage that has a financial significance. Reg-
ulation baseball is an expensive game, whereas
playground ball fits into the slender budget. The
open space which permits playground ball in the
summer also allows Of the use Of footballs by a
great number Of small groups not organized in
the competitive games. Cricket, soccer, field and
ice hockey, polo in its several forms, all may have
their place in metropolitan parks.

TENNIS AND QUOITS. Tennis and quoits or
horseshoes may be properly fitted into the metro-
politan park. Tennis, Of course, is by far the most
expensive and may be contingent upon fees which
foot the bill. Quoit or horseshoe courts may
reasonably be supplied without charge. Badmin—

ton may step in where tennis seems to be on the ,

way out.

RIFLE RANGES AND ARCHERY COURSES. There
are undoubtedly plenty Of opportunities for estab—
lishing rifle ranges and archery courses, and the
latter might easily become
as attractive as golf courses
have proven. In times when
there are more hunters
than game, more fishermen
than fish, when conserva-
tion seems amazingly like
conversation, I recall dis-
tinctly the plea of El C0-
mancho that' the hunter
take less game, the fisher—
man less fish, if they as
sportsmen really have an
interest in the generations
to come. Can any real
sportsman have anything
but childlike admiration for
the hunter who is willing
to stake his chances on a
bow and a shaft? Is it not
a possibility that the art Of
archery may be restored
through the medium of the

Reports from park and recreation departments
testify to the growing popularity of picnics.

RECREATIONAL FEATURES OF COUNTY PARKS

metropolitan park? Either target practice

archery golf, or both, might well be given
chance in such areas.

WATER SPORTS. There can be no quest
about all the sports which use water as a medi

'and perhaps we shall see boating, canoeing .

even fishing confined to lakes, ponds or artifi
bodies Of water. With this segregation and
the purpose Of sanitation, the wading and sw'
ming will undoubtedly have to be confined to
artificial pool. For this reason, because we
find it necessary to have structural pools as a
tinguished from man-made lakes or natural la
or ponds, it is proper to provide swimming p
in metropolitan parks. Natural or created la
and ponds for canoeing and boating have gr
value in addition to their scenic beauty. We
lieve that the engine driven craft has only
meager reason for use in metropolitan par
Such craft may be used in exceptional cases
those metropolitan parks which are more nea
state parks and in which the water area is :
ceptionally large:

WINTER SPORTS. We should pay far grea
attention to winter activities in the provision i
tobogganing, sledding, skating, skiing and sno
shoeing. The type Of facility for each must
good; it must not be mediocre lest it fail Of
purpose. Specially constructed toboggan, s
and skiing slides very oft
develop use by restrict
groups Of people resulti
in competitive events wh'

Courtesy Westchester County Park Commission

‘ ._

 

j

l

l
RECREATIONAL FEATURES OF COUNTY PARKS 429

parks. These paths afford a growing group of
people contact with the out-of-doors that they
would otherwise lose. In addition, the bridle paths
develop a means of access for policing those
parts of the park which would otherwise be left

id to increase spectatorship rather than par-
'pation. Here education has its place.

OWLING ON THE GREEN. There is no reason
‘ believe that bowling on the green should not

 

  
    
 
 
  
  
  

2 e hold of our people as it does the peOple of
I ada. Bowling greens add to present facilities
' i do not detract from the appearance of metro-

'tan parks.

{ ATURE ACTIVITIES. Nature hiking, the es-
: lishment of nature trails and trail side muse-
s and the conducting of organized hikes con-
tute one of the most effective and fastest grow-
“ service in the metropolitan park. To assist

.
O

- metropolitan park patron in learning more of

remote and difficult to administer. There is no
reason to believe that bridle paths cannot act as

fire lanes in the wooded parts of the metropolitan

parks.

SUMMER VACATION CAMPS. The advisability
of the tourist camp is very questionable in the
metropolitan park. The summer vacation camp,
however, is a worth while feature when space
for it exists and it fits the financial program with-
out embarrassing other facilities which serve

out-of-doors is to have a part in that patron’s

reation. A simple sign recently placed in one
our local parks calling the public’s attention
the vivid scarlet and orange coloring of two
I at sassafras trees has made thousands of peo-
' conscious of something that they had only
ked at before. Nature guiding follows the
e law that teaches us when we make a new
uaintance, when we shake the hand of some-
- we have heard of, someone we have known
, someone we have passed by in days gone by.
a know better the ways of nature is to receive
ater benefits from it. Nature guiding is an
ential, perhaps the most essential feature of
. tropolitan park administration. ‘

greater numbers of people. In nearly the same
class comes the overnight shelter of the Adiron-
dack shack type designed to the use of very small
groups. Here again there seems to be too great
a possibility for numerous difficulties in adminis-
tering except in the cases of the structures con-
fined to use of groups of boys or girls with adult
leadership. Actual experience proves that the
destruction and misuse of property, in addition to
patronage of a dangerous character, begins at the
same time that adult use of such facilities starts.
Responsible leadership of an official or satis-
factory unofhcial character could fill this gap,
but only on such conditions should this facility

be established.

PLAY APPARATUS. In addition, it seems proper
to admit to metropolitan parks such apparatus
as is generally found in city playgrounds. It
should not predominate but it should have a place,
for thousands of children are acquainted with
these features, and if they are repeated in metro-
politan parks as an introduction to the other

things which the parks provide they will serve
their purpose.

F

  
 
  
 
  
  
       
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

PICNIKING. Picnicking is but an adjunct to
. - work of the nature trail. The hearty meal
fore or after the hike in the zestful out-of-

rs provides the introduction or the climax to
' kaleidoscope landscape of the metropolitan
ks. In most cases the opportunity to picnic
scrupulously clean places in the out-of-doors
vides the one dominant urge to recreate ont-

doors.

here is unquestionably a place in metropoli-
parks for the church and organization picnic.
e parks provide parking, space to move about,
tain facilities, and fine scenery. The same
becomes a focal point when a band concert
made the apparent reason for visiting the park.

AMUSEMENT PARKS. None of the so-called
amusement park features should be found in the
metropolitan parks. Every effort to provide fea-
tures should be subjected to the simple criterion
of being natural, not artificial, human, not me-
chanical. It is our reSponsibility to counteract

tually it might not be unfair to suggest that
' band concert is following the crowd to the
ropolitan park and for that reason it must

cared for.

 
  
   
 
 
 
 

I ORSEBACK RIDING. The construction of bridle
h systems is quite general and is reasonably
epted as an essential function of metrOpolitan

the ineffaceable trace of the machine on the
human race by providing genuine, natural grow-

ing attractions.
As dance halls and roller skating rinks com-

mercially provided come to an end, it may be that
similar and more care fully supervised facrlities

(Continued on page 452)

 

 

Parks

A few recent de-
velopments and
problems in this
important Field

M‘Hu

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

HE QUESTION of layout and plans for park

development is always of interest, particu-

larly at a time when in increasing numbers
public-spirited citizens are giving areas to be de-
veloped as parks and playgrounds, and much is
being done to provide work for the unemployed
through the park and playground program.

Problems of Layout

In an issue of Parks and Recreation, Alfred L.
Boerner, landscape architect, Milwaukee County
Regional Planning Department, tells of the prob--
lems arising in connection with Saveland Park
and the way in which these problems were solved.

A pond and some fine trees existed in the park,
providing a natural picnic site that the older set-
tlers had used for years. The small lake had be-
come tradition to the neighborhood. These fac-
tors competed with the location and size, which
suggested a playground for intensive play as the
orthodox procedure. However, after careful
study of the region, it was decided that more play
facilities would ultimately be provided on the
school sites as they are acquired in that area, and
that the park would serve a far more useful pur-
pose if its natural assets were enhanced and it
continued to contribute, as in the past, to the en-
vironment of the neighborhood. Active play was
incorporated in the plan, but not the type that
would seriously affect the quiet of the neighbor-
hood.

The plan approved by the Milwaukee County
Park Commission uses the west portion, which is

430

 

Occasionally the physical make-up of a particular a
suggests departure from the beaten path in its desi

wooded, for picnic purposes. Tables and bench
are scattered about in the shade of the trees.
is interesting to note how many women no
bring their small children to this portion of t 1
park on hot summer afternoons.

Near the center of the park is a shelter of mo
ified Colonial type which has a lounge with
natural fireplace and comfort facilities. T
basement includes Storage and a place for t
attendant.

The area just east of the shelter provides
wading pool. This pool is of concrete, and is fe

l
l
l
i
l
l

by two tile frogs that spit water into it. The w

ter then overflows through the rill leading out o
the east end of the pool into the lake. It is one u
the main pleasures of the children to float sti '
and chips down this rill. The wading pool is i
constant use, and is flanked by two playground
which provide a sand box and play equipmen
The lake to the east of the wading pool will ad
further picnic area in the summer and skati .
during the winter months. It is surrounded by
walk and benches.

Winter sports in the .form of coasting an
skating have proven very popular. A demoun
able slide is erected temporarily for coasti
in winter. .

It is interesting to note, since its developmen
how this park is functioning and how it serv
the public. It has become a park for the child I
the playground age and also for the little childre
The coming of the little child has also broug

U”-m_.— ~9—

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

rent. On hot days there are generally one
ed and fifty or more people using the park,
is only.three acres in size, even though the
round it is still sparsely housed. If the
y had been cleared of trees, graded to an
ly flat plane, fenced with a woven wire
it would probably have accommodated a
re children in competitive games. Such a
 essure plan would have been absolutely
ry in a densely populated area. However,
-t such as this, under conditions existing in
ighborhood, which will stimulate the mind
as the muscle of the user, will probably
more useful, particularly because the school
rovide the active play areas. Even though
, y grows around this neighborhood and ab-
it, the individuality of the area will always
.aintained to some degree by the preservation
1is old picnic site and beauty spot. In the
time, the design succeeds in attracting little
ren and their parents into a park, as well as
hildren from eight to fourteen years of age,
because of the facilities provided and the in-
e type of development, the people of the
‘ borhood not only use the park, but one
t say, live in it.

A Combination Park and Playground

Brooklyn, New York, too, beauty and use

been com-
e in a neigh-
Od park
playground
tly opened
he Depart-
of Parks.
1: are both
and play-
d features
is four and
arter acre
Though
(I in a far
congested
t ri c t than
land Park,
been pos-
through at-
v-e planting

AVE -

z
0
x
4
Z

PARKS 431

There is a border of street trees adjoining the
walk, a wide planting of trees and shrubs, an in-
side walk furnished with benches, and another
planting surrounding the playground. A field
house is located near the center of the area be-
tween the boys’ and girls’ playgrounds. This
house has a large play room and comfort station
facilities; the basement is used for maintenance
apparatus and for the storage of equipment. The
girls' playground is equipped with a sand box,
basketball court, volley ball court, sixteen baby '
swings, two slides, a horizontal ladder, one pair
of parallel bars, one horizontal bar, twelve large
link swings and eight seesaws. The boys’ side is
equipped in a somewhat similar manner except
that a double handball court has been substituted
for the baby swings. (See picture, page 432.)

Creating Beauty Spots Through Unemploy-
ment Relief Labor

An enthusiastic editorial in the Alton, Illinois,
Evening Telegraph tells of the transformation
gradually taking place in the city as old, un-
sightly grounds are being converted into recrea-
tion centers. An old pond, a menace to health
because of its stagnant water, has become an at-
tractive playground. A swampy section of the

An example of park planning which has a special
attraction for little children and their mothers.

W-

mm". CCRHFDIGCHL Dun-m Dog-m

. Cue-enq-
legal-II e t I.“
Mfume. town‘s-2.le . .

te an at-
. reof spal-
ess and

 

 

MF ‘w“

—r

C aura-3y Park: and Rec-realms

 

   

  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
    
  
   
   
   
    

432 ' PARKS

river front, infested with squatters and jungle Catering to the Tastes of thePublic
tramps, is now a sightly city common with base— Playgrounds, like restaurants, Phelps Wy
ball diamonds and a boat dock. Unemployed la- Consulting Landscape Architect of Milwau
bor plus the efforts of a neighborhood civic asso— Wisconsin, points out, sometimes cater to -
ciation have made a former pond, the receptacle cialties while maintaining an all-around ser

of refuse of all kinds, into a recreation center in This is the case with the new Fourth Ward P
a neighborhood where there is a crying need, at Neenah, Wisconsin, christened “Washin
while another waste land has become a park. A Park.” (See page 435 for layout.)
playground for Negroes has evolved from a The specialty in this instance is base
neighborhood tract. The fifty acre site of an un— Neenah has another new playheld in its
used pest house has been converted into a golf school athletic field recently highly devel
course, through the interest of a leading citizen but th
Waukesha, Wisconsin, has” completed its park under school conditions, football is the favo
program in the beautifying of the grounds ad— baseball not being provided, although playgro
joining Fox River and the development of Buch— ball is. The lack of baseball facilities in one pl
ner and Horeb Parks. There is now a park acre— necessitated ample facilities in another. Here
age of sixty-five acres. All labor in the park im- space for baseball, for football as a side is
provement plan was done by the unemployed of and for playground ball.
the city under the supervision of theEngineering The balance of the area, as .described by

 

Department. City officials of Wau—
kesha state that the city is now ten .-._ . -------------  ------------------ 
years ahead of where it would have '
been in normal times as far as facility
expansions are concerned.

A Park Through Community Effort

. There is a group in Cleveland, Ohio,
known as the Sterling Park Improve—
ment Association which has deter-
mined through its own labor and in—
itiative to transform the barren play—
ground in its neighborhood .into a
community park. A detailed plan of
development has been prepared which
will be presented to the director of
parks for his approval. The plan in-
volves the planting of one hundred
trees, the fencing off of a central area
as picnic grounds where mothers may
take their young children, and the
planting of the shelter house with
vines and shrubs and the construction
of shady walks surrounding the area.
It is hoped to secure a fund of $2,300
from the city which will be used to
build a new fence and for the purchase
of plant material. A plan is being
worked out whereby churches and
similar organizations will take re—
sponsibility for certain sections of the
park, and individuals will be respon-

sible for the planting and care of a
tree.

PARKS 433

yman, has a somewhat irregular topography.
t borders a sluggish stream and through a shal-
w broad depression a brook must once have run.
his depression was flattened and dammed so
lat it can be flooded for winter skating while in
mmer it provides Space for minor sports as
orseshoes and volley ball. Three tennis courts
t d an auto parking station are on a lesser upper
; vel across from the ball field. The auto parking
ay excite curiosity. Its peculiar form is only
iat it may occupy a space of peculiar shape be-
‘ een existing trees and the property line and not
cause of any mystic merit of its own.
1 Near the northeast corner of the park is the
‘ ighborhood’s public school with none too large
playground. Here is overflow space for its chil-
ren, with apparat-
s and wading pool
id room for group

i

 

One of the most recent additions to Brooklyn’s play areas, this
playground has been enthusiastically received by the residents.

games. But perhaps as important are odd cor-
ners here and there in the park for trees and
shrubbery and for seats when the trees shall have
grown. They give a landscape decoration to what
is otherwise a playiield only and provide a little
landscape enjoyment and rest to those not in
active play. Neenah elsewhere is unusually for-
tunate in its contiguity with waterscapes of much
picturesqueness, those of Lake Winnebago and
the Fox River. This part of town has not that
advantage. T he loard of Park Commissioners
were wise in making much of the topography and
natural landscape advantages.

The Park and Active Recreational Uses

The problem of the uses of parks still arises

from tim e to

time. An inter-

esting legal de-

cision on this

- subject was reached a short time ago
in Greenwich, Connecticut.

In 1908 Robert M. Bruce conveyed

to the town a large tract of land with
certain buildings on condition that the
property would be used forever as a
public park to be known as “Bruce
Memorial Park”; that the dwelling
house of the grantor, located on the
tract, be used as a natural history and
art museum, and that a second build-
ing on the property be leased for pro-
per purposes. In 1909 Mr. Bruce died,
and the land and buildings in question
were taken over by the city. Residents
and property owners adjacent to or in
the immediate vicinity of the park have
brought the complaint that the de-
fendant (the city) is violating the
terms and conditions of the deed of
gift by maintaining upon a portion of
the park a public dog pound, gasoline
tanks, a repair shop for town road
equipment in which noisy engines are
operated, and by using parts of the
park for public playgrounds where.
among other activities, athletics of a
professional character are conducted.
Further, it was charged that the de-
fendant was engaged in extending the
use of the park for playground pur-
poses by constructing public tennis
eourts upon a portion not proper for

434 PARKS

such purposes and that by such uses the natural
beauty of the park was being defaced and dis—
turbances were arising therefrom which were not
in keeping with the use of the land and buildings
in accordance with the terms of the gift. The
plaintiffs further alleged that such uses were not
only contrary to the provisions of the deed but
that they constituted public nuisances, and they
asked for an injunction restraining the defendant
from. using or permitting the park to be used for
business purposes and a public playground, and
any uses not permitted under the deed of gift,
and requested a mandatory injunction compelling
the removal of the building now used and
occupied as a repair shop. The principal question
raised was the interpretation of the term “pur-
poses of a public park.” Mr. L. H. Weir of the
National Recreation Association, who appeared
as one of the witnesses of the defendant, gave the
following definition:

“At the end of nearly three-quarters of a cen-
tury of park development in the United States
the term ‘park’ has come to mean any area of
land or water set aside for outdoor recreational
purposes, whether it be recreation of a passive or
active nature or any of the degrees between these
two extremes, and that the recreation is expected
to come in part at least from beauty of
appearance.”

A number of quotations were offered by the
defendant from Parks——A Manual of Municipal
and County Parks, compiled by Mr. Weir.

The following conclusions were reached in the
case:

“In a park the public may seek recreation. Such
recreation may be active or passive. A public
park is for the equal benefit of all, not for the
benefit of a few or for one more than another.
Recreational games for the benefit of the public,
not for the benefit of a few, may be played. This
conception eliminates professional and so—called
semi-professional games from a park. Notwith-
standing the fact that no admission fee is charged
to the audience and no price
or money award is given to
the players, admittedly the
hat is passed for a collection,
score cards are sold, non-
contributing onlookers are
made to feel that they are
not wanted, the money goes
to the players; the game ac-
quires little or much of the

Readers of Recreation will be interested
in the announcement that until Decemb-
er 3l, I932, it will be possible to secure
the two volumes of "Parks-A Manual of
Municipal and County Parks" for $l0.00.
(The regular price of the Park Manual is

$20.00.) After January I, l933, the of-
fer will not be open.

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

spirit of business; private gain as distinguis
from public recreation. The definitions of
words ‘professional’ and ‘semi-professional’ .
well known, not disputed, and it is not necess
to define them here.

“In what part of Bruce Memorial Park .
recreational games are played lies in the dis
tion of the town and its duly constituted oflic
The plaintiffs complain that the use of cer
parts of this park for games will injure t
private property. I find that with the excep
of the maintenance of the repair shop for r
equipment and the gasoline tanks and eng'
appurtenant thereto, the town has maintained
public or private nuisance in its use of the p
The sole remaining claim of the plaintiffs is
the town is violating the conditions of the ori
deed of gift. ,

“The plaintiffs ask the court to give them t
of which they complain. They claim that
town gives benefit to individuals over the pu
in permitting the play of professionals. They .
the court to give them benefit over the public
prohibiting the playing of any games in the p
near to their private property. They ask the co
to benefit their private property by enjoining
playing of public games in a public park.

“A decree may be entered enjoining the use
any part of Bruce Memorial Park on and a
September I, 1932, for a dog pound, for a re
shop for town road equipment, engines and 1
oline tanks; and further enjoining the defend
on and after May I, 1932, from the use of .
part of Bruce Memorial Park for the playing
any professional or semi-professional game.”

A Few State Park Problems

At a meeting of the National Conference
State Parks held in Virginia Beach, Virginia,
A. Evison, Executive Secretary of the Conf
ence, pointed out a number of problems wh
state park officials are facing. Improper nom
clature and classification, he felt to be one of
pitfalls into which state p
officials may stumble.

Sites of purely histori
archaeological or scien
interest should be separa
classified, Mr. Evison v
and two major classificati
adopted -—- state park
st‘ate monument. This

' take the monument g

8'1

 
  
 

miter out of the recre-
n field.

were is an inclina-
to load on histori-

archaeological
ientiEc hold-

. active rec-
'onal use for
11 they are
11y unquali-
and which
ously impair
ir essential
e. This is
largely to
. f a c t t h at
park has
e, rightly or
o ngly, to mean
ve recreation.
- frequently
re is a ten-
cy to accept .
ain forms of
reation, such
camping and
icking, as ne-

— ‘. “ , s A
I ‘.¥-; 1‘
1t1es in ever » ‘
' v - I _ _
~ * ’ \S‘A OCLL.

 
 

t'e park.These  / '0
both excel- 6,  GARE) or PMCOMMISSIONERS

things to 9' CITY or NLLNAH, Wiscomm

and in most /GENERAL PLAN FOR FOURTH WARDPARK

5 they can PHLLpo WYMAN LANDoCApL ARCHITLCT MILWAUKLL. Wlb.

.reasonably Washington Park in Neenah, Wisconsin, has made baseball
mitted, but its speciality though other sport facilities are included.
a long time
' are going to be park holdings in which use is no reason except public pressure—and the pub-
I Id be limited largely to the eye or in which he can be educated—why a state which finds it
nite limits must be placed on the quantity of necessary to acquire a park by the expensive
ping and picnicking use because they deh- piecemeal process must carry that area on its
v y modify and depreciate the beauty of the maps as a state park or do anything with it ex-
e and subject it to unnecessary wear and tear cept to hold it. There are numerous other areas
a use that can be satisfactorily served in a small in extent and of very slight scenic import-
titude of less scenic places. ance or recreational value which could well be
‘1 0 meet the need for these activities, a num- dropped permanently from the state park lists
of ways may be pointed out: (I) Secure ad- even though the state should continue to hold
I nt land; (2) Have all state parks of ample them indefinitely and safeguard them to a rea-
‘. or until desirable acreage is obtained do not sonable extent. And there are not a few which
rd the park as a state park. can reasonably be handed over to the cities which
*orcing the use or permitting use of an in- they serve almost wholly as local parks.”
plete holding is often nothing short" of dis- Another problem, Mr. Evison pointed out. lies

us to the state owned property itself. There (Continued on page 452)

 

A‘New Outdoor Recreation Center

'\ < I \ ,f-s‘ hr“ , V
-. v a. <-
z? >- \Wskljog..o¢
p

4’.-

for the citizens of Dallas, Texas, and her

environs have been planned by the Dallas
Park Board through former Mayor Tate’s fore—
sight in constructing a large municipal fish hatch-
ery which has been stocked with more than 3,000
brood fish. The hatchery is located just below the
earthen dam of White Rock Lake. The White
Rock property, which is adjacent to one of the
residential sections of the City of Dallas and is
incorporated within the city limits, is only four
or five miles from the center of the business dis—
trict. It comprises approximately 2,500 acres of
which from 1,200 to 1,500 acres are under-water,
leaving the remainder of the area for recreational
purposes. »

‘ It is the plan of the Board to hold the young
fish for one year in specially constructed tanks
where they will be fed properly and then to turn
them loose in city owned waters, especially in
White Rock Lake near which the hatchery is sit—
uated. Special arrangements are being made for
new piers, water lilies and native moss, such as
foxtail variety for fish cover and feed. In doing
this the Park Board has turned an eyesore into a
thing of beauty.aswell as utility, by constructing

436 ' ’

a REAL recreational feature and a future asset

 w -. .
«‘3‘ ‘22" i

' " ‘14. ‘9
I ‘1. a, , .

‘ " v'l’
) v wr- v o __ K,
_ x m , . a
x  WM" 5%

 ~~ . 7 am w ~
’ r ' . 3* 1...: + , _ u,“ {,3

 

0...“. ~ 1 .
w
> .w -

' on

A vast new park which provides to a remarkabl .
degree facilities for both land and water sports

a fishing pier 400 yards long on top of the sewe
and water line which crossed Dixon’s Branch i
the northeast end of White Rock Lake. Fro
this fishing bridge or pier hundreds of people wi
be able to enjoy the sport with the rod and line.
There are twenty—six tanks in the Dallas M

nicipal Hatchery, ranging from one—half to on
acre each,” which are hlled with water from th
lake proper. All of the tanks are arranged on

main line of drainage and any one tank can b
drained within two to three days and refille
within two days. The brood fish which the Par
Board has already placed in the tanks includ
black bass, striped bass, warmouth bass, whit
perch or crappie, blue fill bream, cherry brea

green perch and channel cat. The hatchery is i
charge of Leslie French, the foremost authorit
on game fish in Texas. Mr. French has spei
thirty years of his life either in the employ 0
club lakes .or the State of Texas propagating {is
for Texas streams and lakes. It is his belief th

the capacity of the twenty—six tanks .will ran
from one million to two million fish per yea
depending upon the favorable and unfavorab
brooding and rearing conditions. If this capaci

 

A NEIV OUTDOOR RECREATION ("ENTER 437

. ometimes a dream comes true!
alias has had this experience in
eeing its cherished plans for

bite Rock Park realized.

oes not prove adequate to the needs of munici-

‘ ally owned waters, provision has been made to

nlarge the city’s hatchery.
The Park Board plans to charge a minimum
cc of $1.00 per year for a fishing permit and to
imit the size and number of the catch each day
r cr person in order that the supply of lish will be
I dequate for all who want to enjoy the sport made
amous by Izaak Walton. No distinction will be
i rawn between the citizens of Dallas or Dallas
ounty and those from other parts of the state.
i nyone who pays the necessary license fee will
i e allowed to use the facilities. The hsh hatchery,
ogether with the concrete swimming beach and

oncessions made possible by these recreational

facilities, are expected to bring in enough revenue
0 the Park Board to maintain the entire property.

| Recreation Facilities

I The concrete bathing beach at White Rock,
,which is a feature of the development of the
|property, is 600 feet long and runs out into the

water I 50 feet.

he entire bottom
is a 6-inch con-
crete slab. The
. curve of the beach
lis so constructed
' that the sand from
the beach cannot
wash down into
the pool. There
are three steps
from the tOp of
the curb to the
lfloor of the pool.
A concrete boat
house with thirty
large stalls has
‘ already been built.
ITcnnis courts,
I baseball diamonds
and picnic facili-

ties have been Prt't‘tml around the. border of the
lake. whirl i."- lzumplt-tely surrounded b) a boule-
vard fifteen nilts lum,r Native tries, such as
weeping “iiiUVl s. Huh llau'kiutlfrlt‘s and pecans.
have been planted t‘l'it‘ around the short. If the
lake or around the lmult . ml.

All of the tanks of 1hr ilnil hatchery hau- been
planted with Weeping utlltm and uater lilies in
order that the hatchery itself “ill be not only a
thing of utility but of beauty The minntm cun-
ccssion, as well as all other conecssi. ms. \\ ill ulti-
mately be under the nlanagt ment of the depart~
ment. The main reason why all minnow ctmces-
sions in a recreational dew elnpment of this kind
should be under the administration of. the depart-
ment is the fact that in seining for minnows
thousands of small bass, crappie and bream are
caught which should be transferred immediately
to especially constructed tanks and kept until they
are ready to stock the lake.

In addition to the features mentioned, the de-
velopment of White Rock Lake, which was un-
dertaken only after careful planning by L. H.
Weir of the National Recreation Association, in-
cludes another golf course for Dallas. Among
other plans for the future are special picnic fa-
cilities for private groups, both large and small.
These will include small ovens for fish fries,
weiner roasts, barbecue pits, benches and tables,
refrigerators and cooking utensils. A service

(Continued on page 452)

Everything that makes for a highly successful
picnic is to be found in this beautiful grove.

.' fit. hén
'jv’Ja‘. n:.

o

It/

 

T‘i"

Recreation
on the

Nature Trail

By
WM. P. ALEXANDER

Assistant Curator of
Education

Buffalo Museum of Science

ARKS, - whether cre-
P ated by municipali-

ties, counties, or the
state, are brought into
existence for one vital
purpose, that of provid-
ing pleasant areas to
which our citizens may repair for recreation.
Apart from furnishing a great variety of ways in
which our people, young and old, may disport
themselves as fancy dictates, most parks have in
addition considerable beauty, either man-made or
natural, which makes its appeal to folk who visit
such areas mainly because they are fond of saun-
tering in beautiful places. Such sauntering is also
a recreational activity and one not to be thought
of as lacking in beneficial reactiOns to both body
and mind.

438

 

Courtesy Buffalo Museum of S creme

 

in the "seemingly aimless stroll."

The main attractiveness of the park to visit
who can see beyond golfing, baseball, canoe
and the like, lies in its physical features and ‘
vegetation with which man or nature has cove
it. Our citizens who take their recreation in
seemingly aimless stroll are the ones undoubte

For those who find their recreation ’
f
who appreciate to the fullest extent the plant l i

-» -
I

If;

   
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

landscape of their favorite parks. It is the
of this type who most frequently expres-
e wish that he or she might know the com-
ts of the landscapes more intimately, and
; ret that trees, shrubs, and other plants are
nerally labeled for his or her instruction

lectation. ’

'ving that people harboring this desire are
habitually found in parks than is usually
.. ed to be the case, representatives of the
0 Museum of Science, c00perating with six
'nent outdoor organizations of Western
York, undertook an experiment during the
t year planned to serve nature-loving visit-
a the major playgrounds of the community
0 establish, if possible, a new and profitable
~ in park recreation.

nature trails were prepared in as many
three situated in the City of Buffalo, and
extra-urban in Erie County, New York.
nth was maintained in the Alleghany State
of this State. The trail, which had its in-
. in the last-named recreational area some
n years ago, is now a recognized educa-
idea that has been put to work in many
. of our country and which by 1930 had
.' the Atlantic, for in that year a trail pat-
d after the best to be found in the United

. was laid out in a large city park of Leip-

ermany.
its simplest and most effective form, a na-
trail is a narrow path leading through sec-
of park or woodland chosen for the richness
riety of the natural history materials flank-

and one made alluring by a succession of
ritten non-technical labels which name the

ns and give important information re-
g them. In other words, a nature trail is
fless museum the width of a foot-path, a

r or so long.
A Joint Project

aders of such outdoor organizations as the

craft League, Alle-
1 Field and Trail Club,
Scouts, Girl Scouts,
n Fire Girls and Girl
rves, acting with the
10 Museum of Sci-
this year ventured
what has probably
~ (1 out to be the most
' e undertaking thus

$.IO.

3

valuable.

The Buffalo, New York, Museum of Science
has issued an interesting constellation chart
which may be secured from the Museum at
In lots of ten and over a discount of
25 per cent is given. Postage is paid by the
purchasers. These charts have been in great
demand in the Buffalo district. Recreation

departments interested in conducting na-
ture activities will find them exceedingly

RECREATION ON THE NATURE TRAIL 439

far attempted in the business of furnishing ac-
curate mformation to public park visitors in the
field of natural history.

Seven well-executed nature trails laid out by
these active groups have been so enthusiastically
received by the people for whom they were pre—
pared that they point to a new form of park rec-
reation which is likely to become extremely pop-
ular in the years to come. The trails in question,
although developed in widely separated areas, all
had a similar treatment in their general plan.
They differed in the several parks only to the
extent of conforming to the flora of a definite
locality so that a description of one trail might
serve, with incidental changes, for any of the

seven.

The organizations previously named each dele-
gated a number of their best-informed nature
leaders who met once each week at the Buffalo
Museum of Science and as a class took an inten-
sive course in Nature Trail Making under the
guidance of the writer as instructor. The Mus-
eum course offered instruction primarily in the
essentials of label writing, the designing of sub-
stantial and attractive label supports, rustic wea-
ther-proof containers for colored bird pictures,
bird houses, feeding stations and other accessor-
ies needed as furnishings for the various trails.
Laboratory and shop periods followed the class
work through a number of weeks in which the
fixtures indicated above were shaped and fin-
ished for use. (There were twenty-four weekly
class room and laboratory periods; thirty field
trips.)

Early in the spring, aided by park superin-
tendents, the several groups plotted and staked
out the course of their respective trails, and with
the coming of settled weather the actual work of
applying the labels to trees and other exhibits
and of putting up of bird houses was started in
earnest. By July the undertaking had advanced
to such a degree of completeness that all the
nature trails were opened
to the public and the
fact of their existence pub-
lished extensively. The
event was made part of the
centennial celebration of the
City of Buffalo. Response
was immediate and in con-
siderable measure satis-

factory.

4—40 RECREATION ON THE NATURE TRAIL

o —

%

 

Courtesy Bufalo Museum of Science

A glimpse of the Chestnut Ridge Nature . read.
Trail laid out by the Woodcraft League.

Along a Typical Trail

Let us now take one of the nature
trails (any one would be representa-
tive) and note the main features as we progress
leisurely in imagination along its pleasant shaded
length. It will give us a more adequate idea of its
qualities and. purpose if we do this in the manner
of an interested park visitor who has set out on a
tour of inspection. The trail in beautiful Como
Park, Erie County, is typical, so let us turn our
attention to its many noteworthy attractions.

The trail starts just in front of the home and
headquarters of the Superintendent which is sit-
uated at a strategic point near one of the most—
used park entrances. More people enter here than
elsewhere and the locality also has the advantage
of being handsomely embellished with flowering
herbaceous plants and shrubs. Here at the be-
ginning of the well-cindered trail is located the
conspicuous master label which attracts attention
from a considerable distance and which in a

   
    
     
  
   
  
   
          
     
  
    
 

carefully prepared a 7 '
beautifully lettered t
tells the purpose of t
trail and cordially invit
the visitor to wand
learn, and enjoy. A t
pole surmounted by a sp
cious martin house is pr
vided to support th
heavy rustically fram
master label. Those w
read the master label wi
care are usually put in t
proper frame of mind i
set out upon the trail a .
get the most out of a Viv
new experience.

Starting, one slowl ‘
moves forward readi ‘
the informative labels .
he goes. Here a tre 2
there a shrub, or perha '
a whole clump of litt

7a.

e, ‘ _,_
.75-}.1 _ .

flowering plants half hi i
den by the grass besi .
the path should be near
the trail-follower’s hear
x 1 one is inclined to thin
after the labels tellin
their stories ha
been read and r
The whole pr
ject has been wor
ed out with suc
sympathetic care that one is scarcely aware of th
least note of artiliciality, so harmoniously hav
the trappings of the trail been blended wit
nature! Rustic frame blocks 4” x 6” carry t'h ‘
neatly typed labels, and these are supported 0 .
stakes to which the bark still clings. Bird house
and feeding stations are tinted to blend incon
spicuously with their surroundings. Suddenly a
truly fascinating spot on the trail has bee
reached. An expansive glade like an outdoo
museum hall which is provided with a maste
label of its own informs the visitor that he .'
come upon the fernery. Native ferns and fer
allies have been labeled, to be sure, where the
chanced to occur along the trail, but in the fern
ery there has been brought together practically al i
the species whichxbelong to the flora of Weste '1
New York where they may be studied, compared '

l

l
I
l

     
  

   

A '\-
ilk-la”

RECREATION ON THE NATURE TRAIL 441

enjoyed, assembled in rich profusion. The
ls in this area are the equivalent of a con-
ed popular textbook on the subject.

11 the visitor goes, deep in recreation both
ical and spiritual as he leisurely passes read-
through alluring groves, over bridged ravines,
down pleasantly shaded slopes. Descending
a SIOpe in Como Park one soon learns that
's on a stretch of the trail that he will long re-
ber and most likely revisit. Here are two
ded pockets, each with a special master label,
rst containing an Indian garden and the sec-
bearing the legend “A Rare Flower Garden.”
‘ Seneca Indian Garden”—there is magic in
very.name, and it is not surprising that many
0 have followed the trail thus far, linger and
y long in this fascinating spot. What the
en contains is best indicated in the text of its
er label:

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

“From the vegetation of the wilderness,
he Indians derived much of their food and
materials which they employed in their
" omestic arts.

The forest was their uncultivated garden,
d from it they gleaned tasty and nutri—
'us foodstuffs, fibers for textiles and cord-
e, fine dyes, medicine, and plants which
yed an important part in their tribal
' emonials. Many of the species so used
y Indians are in this little wild garden.”

eyond this, one enters the second roofless al-
where a collection of charming wild plants
the general public rarely sees has been pain-
ingly assembled. Native orchids, lilies, arums,
many another group of plants that delight in
en places have found their way to this spot
e trail through much laborious effort on the
of those who prepared it.

nother section of the Como Park nature trail
ts a body of quiet water, and here consider-
. use has been made of aquatic vegetation
h lends variety and charm to the pathside in
wn distinctive way.

‘1 the end of the mile or more of trail one
s constantly through ever-changing moods
attire expressed in one form or another and
'ing in subtle ways with the progress of the
us. This circumstance in itself goes far in
'ning why the nature trail seems to make a
tual appeal to those who once become ad-
d to its use. It does not become monotonous.
fairly accurate check made to ascertain in

some measure what response the public was mak-
ing to these newly established recreational and in-
structive park features brought out the satisfying
fact that many of the regularly appearing fre-
quenters, both young and old, made repeated
trips over the trails during the summer. Of
course, in the end it cannot be denied that the
success of the nature trail depends upon its labels,
and the number and attractiveness of these im-
portant adjuncts would account for frequent
visits by interested people in large measure. Some
500 specimens are labeled on the Como Park
Trail, and to read that number of texts with care
and understanding, to say nothing of note taking
which was frequently practiced, would consume
considerable time.

Labels are written in language calculated to be
comprehensible to the young person or adult of
good average intelligence. The information in-
cluded was selected with the view of stimulating
a sharp interest in this or that organism by bring-
ing out a few outstanding facts concerning it—
not too much at any one time. A few examples
of nature trail label texts follow as typical speci-
mens.

Attached to one of our most appealing wood-
land Howering plants in the Rare Flower Garden
one finds this:

YELLOIV CLINTONIA

Clintonia borealis Lily Family

This handsome lil v with its straw-colored,
bell-shaped blossoms was named for De-

Witt Clinton, former Governor New Y o-rk
State, whose hobby was botany.
Watch for its pure, deep-blue berries which

ripen late in the smnmer.

 

Or on another alluring member of the group—

DOG’S—TOOTH VIOLET

Erythronium americanum Lily Family

This golden lily loves the sun. It closes
at night and hides its face on cloudy days.
The purplish mottled leaves are light and

shade. Their resemblance to the skin of a
snalce, together with the shape of the petals,
suggested the name Yellow Adder’s-Tongue.

Fisher-men call it Trout Lily, and John
Burroughs christened it Faun Lily because
of the spotted, ear-shaped leaves.

 

(Continued on page 453)

Why Not A Zoo Day?

An ingenious plan 'for introducing the
children of your city to the park zoo.

ECREATION directors who
R are looking for activities

that have educational as
well as recreational features

should not miss the opportunity
that is offered by a Zoo Day when the collection

of animals and birds your city offers may become

the main feature of an afternoon’s program.
Every 200 has its monkey colony. There are

few who do not enjoy watching the noisy little

fellows do their funny ca— — . 7W 
pers, but not many of us i
know which of the simian
group is the African Ver-
vet, and just why the organ
grinder usually c h o o s e s
him to do his begging. We
may make our pilgrimages
to a park for years and not
notice that in one of these
dens of din, chatter and
clowning there may be one
dignified and thoughtful
chap who seems to be si-
lently working out a solu—
tion to some weight'y prob-
lem. This “Rodin’s Think-
er” of monkeydom is the
Green Monkey. It is claimed that he utters no
sound while in captivity.

From the time when we hrst learned at our
mother’s knee of the Fox and his less clever con—
temporary, the Little Red H en, Sir Reynard has
stood for perfection of wit and cunning. For
some reason the authors were very exact in let-
ting us know that the little hen was red but did
not trouble to mention just what shade tinted the
coat of the tricky gentleman. And yet this is a
rather important fact to know when we think
about the fox. The little red fellow has all the
subtle cunning with which Aesop’s Fables credit

442

By JAMES C. LEWIS

Director of Recreation
'Lincoln, Nebraska.

 

A few denizens of the park about whom

children may discover

   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
    

him, while his gray cousin
lacking in craft‘iness but
climb a tree readily—a feat t
the red fox would never (1
try.

Where did the bear in your park come fro
When we looked into the records we found t
one of our big black fellows had been a ma ‘
for a well known college football team. Anot
had figured in a long list of escapades since
birth in our local pits.
most romantic flare was
evening lark through a
of our parks, when he m
it his business to app
suddenly before the sco
of young swains settled
the benches with their f
ladies to mingle soft wo
with the rustle of the tr
in the evening bree
Rather a rude awakeni
to realities! It is said t
there were gallants who
their role of protectors
womanhood lost c as
greatly, and that there w
s o m e unofficial worl
sprinting records set that evening before ani
attendants took up the trail With lasso rop
flashlights and a sack of sweet rolls! Bruno f
for the lure of the sack of sweet rolls and f
lowed it dutifully back to his cage, and no las
were uncoiled.

We were fortunate enough to hnd the man w
caught our large cinnamon bear. He had an -
citing story to tell the crowds that packed t
park to see the animals. From him we lear
that what many of us had thought were differ
kinds of bear were blondes arid brunettes of t
same species. Our animal keepers told us of ma

1

interesting facts.

  
 
 
    
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
    

esting experiences they had
at one time or another with
of their charges. When
lled upon the Zoology De-
nent of our State University
help, we learned many more
things. The lowly opossum
weet potato fame we found
the center of a lively debate
1686 circles. One school of
orities credits the wily crea-
with the clever use of sham,
e the others say he isn’t wily
does he sham! Instead they
that Mr. Possum is at times so awed by fear
he has a mental breakdown and is stricken
paralysis. They say he would surely run if
ould. You can’t settle such an argument, but
ill always be interesting when told to either
g or old.

here are a thousand intriguing facts about the
bitants of your zoo from the story of how
alligator fasts for nine months to the tale of
racoon who catches a fish and immediately
es it in water before he eats it. Your zoo
become a place full of fascinating animal
onalities instead of a pack of beasts. .All that
ecessary is to let people know about them.
00 Day will do just that.

Planning for Zoo Day

~ e used the following mechanics in preparing
staging the program for the day. Through
Zoology Department of the University of
raska we were able to secure scientific data
11 the animals in our park collection. We
(1 out and made a written report on what
liked to eat when in their wild habitat, their
raphical distribution, their habits, their ani-
kin, and a list of their natural enemies. Much
is information can be found in Anthony’s
'. Book of North American Mammals.* To
we added all the material that the zoo keepers
able to furnish, including a list of what food
how much each animal is fed a day, along
other interesting information, whether of
attempted escape or the peculiarities of a

cular animal.

ll this data was assembled and typed in tripli-
Our Boy Scouts furnished us with two
Scouts to act as keepers at each cage. Mem-

of the Izaak Walton LeagUe or any similar

- could take charge of this duty. To each

of the Scouts we furnished a copy of the

_ ‘D Duannm’. Cane Mm Var-1: City-

0

!

One of the features provided by
many park departments which
should be far more widely used
by recreation departments is the
zoo. Here is a fascinating source .
of information and enioyment 1t-
with a tremendous appeal to
children. Give the children an
opportunity to learn through
such a program as that described
here, not only zoology but in-
teresting and intriguing facts
about the escapades of animals
in your 200 and about their hab-
its and characteristics.

WHY NOTAZOO DAY 443

typed material. It became their
business to learn all about their
own particular animal and be
ready to tell the crowds about
Using two boys at a cage
gives an opportunity for them
to alternate in making their little
talks. When boys handle this
duty care must be taken to se-

cure lads who talk easily before
a crowd.

\Vith the keepers thus pre—
pared, a Zoo Day should ro'Il

along without any special effort.
Our Park Department cooperated splendidly. The

cages were shining and the animals looked their
best. The animals were out moving around when
the large crowd was there. The keepers were
successful in catching the beaver in the front of
his enclosure the day before and locked him out
of the house he had built for the winter of bark
and branches inside of his stone quarters. This
was not a popular move in the mind of the broad
tailed little carpenter! He set to work in an in-
dustrious but futile attempt to gnaw his way out
through the wire and concrete. Visitors were
delighted to have time for a close view of this
very shy citizen who played such a leading role
in bringing our early traders into the Northwest.

We moved one woodchuck into a wire cage to
prevent him from hibernating for the winter along
with his brothers. The newspapers made quite
a story out of this, for the woodchuck is just
another name for groundhog, and when His
Royal Highness goes into seclusion for his season
of rest we are supposed to have winter until he
appears again. The reporters interpreted this
move as an attempt on our part to insure good
weather for our festivities!

The public schools gave publicity through a
bulletin to each teacher in the city. Many in-
structors gave class assignments that were related
to the activities of Zoo Day. The newspapers
were generous in their support. Our Commis-
sioner of Parks appreciated the event greatly.
At a time such as this there are many citizens
who advocate doing away with the animals to
save expense. An event such as Zoo Day is proof
to city officials that they are not spending money
unwiser in such enterprises. To be sure of this
one need only see the children’s faces as they

gaze at their animal friends!

 

 

The Evolution of a Water Park

HERE brown clad Fran-
Wciscan monks a century
and a half ago scooped
salt from an ancient salt
marsh for the use of the
people of the missions of

Santa Barbara, today there
is a beautiful lake studded

By LYNN C. SIMPSON

Santa Barbara, California

It is difficult to conceive of this
rarely beautiful lake with its is-
lands, terraced shores and sanc-
tuary where birds of countless
varieties come to feed, as once

having been an unsightly salt
marsh. The Andree Clarl< Bird
Refuge is an outstanding example
of careful planning and modern

California a century and
half ago, this land was ti
land. Sometimes it was
salt lake; at other times

bed of soft baked mud. O

_ sixty years ago it was (

claimed in part and a ra
track was built there. F

with verdure clad islands. On
these waters thousands of
ducks and other wild birds
feed in a game sanctuary
within a few yards of a boulevard along which
flows a continuous stream of traffic. Unsightly
mud banks edged with salt grass have been
converted into terraced slopes on which green
lawns grow. Pines and other trees and shrubs
lend their grace to a picture altogether
pleasing.

All this is the result of careful planning and

construction, and of the wise use by Dwight‘

Murphy, president of the Santa Barbara City
Park Commission, and his associates, of funds
provided by Mrs. Hugette Gower, daughter of
the late Senator W. A. Clark of Montana. In
honor of Mrs. Gower’s mother, it has been

called the Andree Clark Bird Refuge.
When the founders of the missions came to

444

engineering sl<ill.

 

a number of years it serv
the “sport of kings.” Th
the railroad came to San
Barbara and engineers c
ting across the race track put an end to th
sport. The marsh and surrounding lan
passed into the hands of the City of San
Barbara about thirty years ago and was lat
ofhcially declared a bird refuge. No serio
attempt was made to develop it, however, f
the city could never spare the money for th
expensive task. Then Mrs. Gower and h
mother became interested and Mrs. Gow
provided a sum of money to reclaim the mars
When this sum proved insufficient to car
out the plans which had been made, $5,
more was given by Mrs. Gower to comple
the work.

In the construction of this lake, which wi
its terraced shores covers about forty-thr

if

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

* es, many difficulties had to be overcome. It
i. s impossible to drain the area as much of
5 was below the level of the sea which lies
y a few yards away and is separated from
marsh by a narrow strip of sand. Various
5 were proposed for the excavation of the
c and the construction of the islands for
ich the plan provided. It was eventually
cided to advertise for bids for the work leav-

. ; to the bidders the solution of the problem.

To accomplish the task required the removal
' 107,000 yards of earth, much of it sticky
ud. The marsh in places was a veritable
ttomless pit of soft mud. The bidders offered
ny different plans for the excavation, but
e low figure was eventually given by a con-
ctor who proposed to use a steam or gas
ovel as a dredger. To excavate this large
' ea with a steam shovel and to build islands
quired great ingenuity. The huge machine
as placed on wide wooden supports to pre-
nt it from sinking into the deep mud, and
e some huge, webb-footed monster this land
'ant foot by foot worked its way around and
' ross the old marsh.

Below the sun dried crust of the marsh the
~ ovel soon revealed deep mud. It was neces-
ry to move much of the material twice be-
.‘ re it could be placed where desired. On one
casion a long strip of newly built bank
'pped back into the pit. Examination re-
- aled hidden sulphur springs which had
lted away the mud and it was necessary to
ain these springs before the work could pro-
d. With no other machinery than the
ovel, three islands were built by the tedious
ocess of putting one shovel of mud after
other in the desired spot until the required
. ight and contour were secured. It was a
ng, slow task, but in the end the work was
ne without hauling a yard of earth. The
g machine worked its way around the lake
undary, cutting off a point here and adding
' e there until the gently sloping banks
. ched the desired form.

   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

The cost of this portion of the work was a
tle less than $37,000. For this sum more
an 107,000 cubic yards of earth and mud
ere moved.

After the completion of the excavation and
e building of the islands there still remained

 

THE EVOLUTION OF A WATER PARK 445

the problem of planting. Lack of drainage and
the heavy impregnation of salt in the soil
made this problem serious. for the saline ele-
ments in the mud were slow in leaching out.
Here again the Santa Barbara park officials
showed ingenuity. Realizing the uselessness
of planting trees and shrubs in such salty soil,
they partially filled the excavations for their
plants with fresh sweet soil and set their boxed
trees in the holes. The officials reasoned that
within a few years the boxes would rot away
and by the time this took place the re-
claimed land would be sufficiently sweetened
to give abundant nourishment t0 the plants.
The shrubbery on the shore and islands has
already shown remarkable growth. Banks
which a few months ago were sticky mud now

support thriving lawns.

In building this charming water park, the
designers kept in mind the fact that it was in-
tended as a safe refuge for wild birds, and
they left along the shores of the lakes a deep
channel to provide protection for the birds.
In the center between the islands the water
is shallow to furnish feeding grounds for the
native and visiting birds. At all seasons of
the year thousands of wild fowl of many varie-
ties are to be seen on the waters of the lake,
and in the fall and winter wild ducks of sev-
eral kinds make this an overnight stop on their
way to or from their arctic breeding grounds.

At the last meeting of the National Conference
on State Parks, a number of delegates reported
on progress in their states. Missouri, with 14
state parks. recently acquired 600 acres within
service radius of St. Louis. Maryland has about
50,000 acres of state owned forest land used
chiefly for recreation. Michigan owns 65 park
properties, 14 of them within a 50-mile radius of
Detroit. In 1931 approximately 100,000 camping
parties used the parks and the total attendance
in that year was almost 1,000,000.

New Jersey has come by leaps and bounds to
realize the importance of state parks and now
has eight such properties. A legislative commit-
tee has been appointed to formulate a comprehen-
sive state park plan. During the past year Mas-
sachusetts passed a law providing for state parks.

For seventeen years the children of the Bro
park playgrounds have enjoyed an annual 

World at Play

F I FTEEN hundred

children from thirty
park playgrounds
took part in the an-
nual dance festival and field day held under
the auspices of the Department of Parks of
Brooklyn. A Mother Goose parade was one
of the events of the program, _while the “pi—
rates” dance in which 100 children participated
aroused much enthusiasm among the 10,000
spectators. All of the children were in .cos-
tumes.which they had made on the play-
grounds. Each child paid for the material
used in her costume, the cost varying from
25 cents to $1.00. After the program of danc—
ing and singing had been completed the chil—
dren“ adjourned to the picnic grove a short
distance away and enjoyed a mammoth picnic.

A Dance Festival
and Field Day

THE National Child
Labor Day for 1933
will be observed on
————-—-—————-————-———-————- Saturday,“ January
28th, in synagogues, on Sunday, January 29th,

446

National Child
Labor Day '

in churches and church schools, and on M
day, January 30th, in schools, clubs and ot
organizations. Groups wishing to plan a p
gram for the day may secure material fr
the National Child Labor Committee, 3
Fourth Avenue, New York City.

THIS year, becat
.of lack of funds, t
City C o u n c i l
Evanston, Illino
considered eliminating from the budget fun
for playground leadership. A meeting or
held to discuss the problem, and the possi
danger to children from street accidents

Safety Activities
in Evanston

event of the closing of the playgrounds w

stressed with the Council. As a result t
Council decided to modify its program and t
playgrounds were open until the latter part
August, the Bureau of Recreation being forc
for lack of funds, to close them two wee
prior to the opening of school. In the mea
time the‘ Bureau of Accident Prevention of

Police Department was asked to keep a sep

——..-

 

‘- -_ ‘

~— - ——————_- o

  
 
  
     
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

' record of the accidents occurring to chil-
n of playground age. It was found that
‘. September lst to September 12th exactly
rteen accidents took place. ' All the acci-
ts occurred while the children Were either
ning or playing in the streets. “This
' ms most conclusive proof,” writes C. T.
’ nes, Superintendent of Recreation, “that
grounds do assist in eliminating accidents."
‘he report regarding accidents was pre-
ted at a meeting of the Evanston Safety
ncil, which went on record as favoring the
tinuance and further promotion of play-
unds. It was the consensus of opinion that
increase in accidents was due entirely to
early closing of the playgrounds. '

.At the Westchester Workshop—The \Vest-
ster County, New York, \Vorkshop has
ned the fall season with the following
sses in arts and crafts: art appreciation;
{ of home making; cartooning; creative
iting; design; jewelry; landscape garden-
-«3 ; basketry; Batik, block printing and book
ding; Christmas cards, mixed crafts, mari-
ettes; metal and enamel; motion picture
king; painting; photography; pottery;
ulpture; stage craft; creative art; furniture
king; leather; tapestry weaving; weaving.

 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   

Picnic Service Active—“Economic condi-
ons, blamed for many disasters,” states a
lletin issued by the Los Angeles, California,
partment of Playground and Recreation,
re responsible for at least one happy result—-
return to public favor of the good old-
hioned picnic.” The report shows a total
'- 275 picnics provided with recreational ser-
ce during 1932 as compared with 220 during
e previous season, representing a total of
,084 picknickers as against 56,235 the year
fore. The Municipal I‘icnic Service has as
°‘ task the securing of permits, the arrange-
nt of recreation programs, the loan of ath-
ic equipment and other details connected
ith picnic organization. This aid is all pro-
ded free upon request.

IIA Beauty Spot Flourishes—The Reinisch
se garden of Topeka. Kansas, described in
' July issue of RECREATION, now contains
,000 rose bushes instead of the 9,000 men-
ned and the Doran rock garden of about

0 acres, including an artificial little lake, is
' nted with many thousands of alpines and

    
 
 
  

WORLD AT PLAK 447

other rock loving plants, and a lake with many
aquatics. The cost of this improvement in-
stead of being $26,000 as mentioned in the ar-
ticle, has mounted to $50,000, of which Mr.
Thomas F. Doran is credited with having con-
tribuated more than $10,000. He not only lib-
erally aided the Financing of the Reinisch rose
garden but built the Doran rock garden with
his own funds. The Reinisch rose garden won

first prize in the More Beautiful America
contest.

Henry Ford Creates a Community Playi
groundL—According to the Detroit Pregs, the
site of an old _nursery‘ in Macon, Lenawee
County, Michigan. a village of one hundred
and fifty residents, has been reserved by Henry

-Ford as a permanent community playground

where old and young may congregate for pic-
nics and outdoor sports. The site consists of
a grove on a side hill comprising fifty-seven
varieties of trees, many of them stock trees
from a nursery enterprise'of many years ago.
Playground equipment, it is said, will be in-
stalled later. An old house has been removed,
the ground resodded, and underbrush and de-
bris cleared away. Across the highway, brick

.l I a a
, i
O

I
,A

BoBY 'B'U'ILDIN’G'” '

PLAY DEVICES

Body building play is required by
every growing youth. See that your
playground equipment includes the
most in safety—durability and

strength—along with the thrilling
fun it can afford.

Send for our catalog and see boysr
we include the above features in
“American” play devnces.

i American Playground Device 00.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

 

l'

#01- -- ht‘4ra-H’b4‘li**m “la-M th‘ v(1 -

 

 

448

 

means a terrific strain on a Giant Stride—
or on any other piece of playground
equipment.

Purchasers of playground equipment know
the importance of selecting units specially
constructed to carry the full load.

EVERWEAR Equipment is designed to
give unusual factors of safety and dura-
bility—it is not built down to a price.
yet is low in cost.

EVEI' Wear

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

     
  

 
 

Safe, beneficial action is provided by the
255 different types, sizes, and units of
recreation apparatus found in the splendid
EverWear line.

 
   
   
  
 

  

An outfit for every play purpose. The
design and details of construction insure
safety and durability. Investigate them.

 
   
 

Have you read the information found on
the inside front and back cover pages of
the EverWear catalog No. 23? If you
do not have thi splendid book, write for
your cOpy.

 
       
      

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.
Springfield, Ohio

    
 

WORLD AT PLAY

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
    
   
     
    
    
   
  

fireplaces have been built for outdoor cooki
and tables and seats provided.

Swimming for Children—In Wheeling, \ ’
Virginia, the Recreation Committee of
Council of Social Work arranged for the s
ming pool at the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C.
to be Open three days a week without ch
for children from the playgrounds, supervi
being furnished by the Playground and Re
ation Department. The Council also arra ‘
for books from the city library to be pla
on the playgrounds and f0.r outings for m
ers and babies at Oglebav Park.

Resolutions Regarding Play and Phy
Education—At the thirty-third annual c
vention of the Pennsylvania State School
rectors’ Association, of the eleven resoluti
passed, the following three pertained to ph
cal education: “That we approve and c
mend the tendency to better standards
school housing and equipment, larger recr
tion grounds and all modern provisions 1
safeguarding and improving the health
school children; that programs for the phi
cal education of pupils in our schools she
be framed with the purpose of bringing
greater benefit to the greatest number, rat
than higher development of a small numb
that larger provision should be made for t
care and education of children who are
normal.”

Modern School Planning—There are ma
fine new junior and senior high schools bei
built with excellent facilities and equipm
for physical education. Special mention shou
be made of the Walnut Hills High Scho
Cincinnati, a six-year high school with fifte
hundred students. It has a master gymnasiu
SOXISO which can be divided into two gym
siums, one 40x60, the other 40x90, a splend
sound—proof door arrangement which real
works and is sound—proof, two swimmi
pools 25x60, a corrective room, two heal
rooms, and excellent individual showers for t
girls. A large ultra violet ray machine is p
of the equipment. There are 25 acres of s
veloped play areas. Three men and two wom

form the staff.

Substitutes for Street Play—In order to -
cure more space where children might pl
in safety last summer, Commissioner Hen

WORLD AT PLAY 449

Garvin, head of the Accident Investigation
ereau of Detroit, last spring appealed for
9 ant lots for the use of boys and girls who
uld otherwise play in the street. By the
iddle of June five lots had been offered for
‘ e. In the \Vard Avenue neighborhood the
" rd Avenue Community Association fos-

ed the idea of a vacant lot playground, se-
red the use of some corner lots and cleared

d graded the ground through .volunteer

or. The women helped, too, by painting the
’- ce. The Department of Recreation pro?
ed equipment and leadership was given by
pthers in the community, each of whom de-

ted a half day’s time every month to the
rk.

Nature Study Hikes—Nature study hikes,
, en to any adult in Lancaster City or County,
nnsylvania, are conducted every Saturday
ernoon under the auspices of the Recreation
d Playground Association by volunteer na-
re students. A different subject is stressed
every hike, among them flowers, trees,
' ds, insects, and Lancaster County scenery.
e hikes vary in length from three to five
'les.

Free Concerts During the Summer — In
ackensack, New Jersey, where the City and
provement Commission announced that no
nd concerts could be given last summer
cause of lack of funds. Dr. Paul S. Mack,
ad of the Mack Conservatory of Music in
at city, organized a community orchestra in
ich there were 125 people including boys
(1 girls as young as ten years of age and two
three men of sixty or over. This orchestra
s organized to give free open air concerts
e first of which was held on the court house
eps before a large audience. The orchestra
et for rehearsal every Friday evening and
ve concerts throughout the season at no cost
0 the taxpayers or the listeners.

. Music for All—“It is our purpose to guaran-
3 ' to every taxpayer that his children are get-
g musical development,” writes C. A. Ful-
, head of the Music Department in Iowa
ate Teachers’ College, Cedar Falls. Mr.
ller’s plan consists of making wide use of
I. ords containing ten or twelve standard
.. mmunity songs, using them in the schools
til the singing of them becomes a habit, and

H

 

DIAMOND

SHOES

IN CHRISTMAS
PACKAGES

An ideal gift for followers of the
game. Attractive. colorful and. of
course. Diamond OEcial Pitching
Horseshoes are the preference of
amateur: and professionals alike—
the country over. They’re drop
- forged from highest quality Iteel.
They will not chip or break.

DIAMO ND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

4510 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH, MINN.

also using them in communities with such
groups as farm bureaus. music clubs and Par-
ent-Teacher Associations. Recently all the
fifth grades from the consolidated schools of
the county were assembled to sing their choir
list. On the same program the choirs from
the rural schools of the county sang ten songs,
and each consolidated school furnished a musi-
cal number. “\Ve believe there is more educa—
tional merit in that sort of thing than in having
a few of the choicest voices represent the high
school in the form of a glee club.”

A Plea for Yuletide Singing

(Continued from huge 415)

churches, and among Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
Camp Fire Girls, and other organizations or insti-
tutions for children, and also among adults in
clubs and industries as well as in churches. The
hour from six to seven on Christmas Eve seems
to be most convenient forievery one concerned.
Announcements in the newspapers and through
the schools, churches and other organizations
mentioned will bring lighted candles to many a
home window.” Copies of a pattern for a very
simple Cape and, perhaps, also a cap can be made

available at very little expense.

450 THE TOBOGGAN SLIDE

      
       
   
       
         
     
   

   
   

d.

I '-
. r |

Christmas Caroling Aids;-

I Stories iof.the Christmas Carols
- Revised ($.25)

This revised statement contains- anw
introduction by Mr. A. D. Zanzig, the
de'sciiption at. an” additional carol,
"Bring a Torchndeannette, Isabella,"
and suggestions for'o "Learn a Carol
a Day"’campaign.

I ‘ Christmas Carol Sheets
I (per 100, $.80)

Words of ten favorite carols,ia" of
them described in "Stories of, the
Christmas Carols."

s
it

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue ’ " I
New York City

 

What is chiefly needed is the desire for the

caroling. Information for making the most of
it is easily available through the National Recre—
ation Association and throughother sources.

The Toboggon Slide
(Continued. from page 42.0.)- i ’

should be posted at the slides to reduce likelihood
of accidents and to encourage the use ofithe
slides. These include rules governing the use of
slides and a safety first notice which may"read

: Noticel,
Sliding on Roadways Prohibited
Sliding Allowed on Slides Only 
H elp Us Prevent Accidents

' ' SAFETY FIRST!
The 'Division also suggests that there be .
tice posted regarding” lost articles and acci
which stateszi“Not responsible for accide
lost articles.” T i
A curfew ordinance, it is suggested, shou
enforced. The following suggestions are '1
for such an ordinance:
(I) Children under sixteen years, unatte
by parents or guardian, must not be on the st
or in public places unless necessary after 9 P
(2) A parent or guardian, permitting a v
tion is subject to a fine of-$I0.00. ..
(3) It is the duty of the police officer
first violation to take or send the child home
to bring the parent or guardian to court.

A "Turn .Over a New Leaf" Por

(Continued from page 422)

should read something like this: “I’d just as ‘
be a hod-carrier as a doctor”. or “I’d just as ‘
be a milkman as an office boy.”

When everyone has revealed his secret 3
tion, collect‘the cards and then redistribute t
taking care not to give anyone his own card.
ask each guest in turn to act out the two cha
ters written on his particular card. For the
aginative people who want to make their cha
terization realistic, have a supply of old clo
and dress-up accessories handy. As each pla
performs his role the others' try to guess the a.
my of the person whose occupation and se
ambition are being pantomimed. Award a p
to the one who makes the first correct guess .
a prize to the player who has the most nu l
of points at the end of the game. If your fri
are good actors and good sports you can be ~
this game will provide much merriment.

   
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
  

When the Momentous Hour Strikes!

Many New Year’s parties are spoiled bec
the New Year slips in without anybody noti
it until about ten minutes past. twelve. W
this happens everyone feels a little bit chea
even though he had a good time at the party.
be sure such a disaster does not happen at'
party, plan your games so that they will end '
before 12 o’clock. Set several alarm clocks
other clocks that strike therhour so that they

 
  
  
  
     
  
  

. 'ng together on the- stroke of twelve. ' If pos-
, have them concealed during the party so
lock-striking uproar will come as a‘complete
rise.- This will -be the signal for general
ry-making. Distribute plenty of noise—makers
'the guests will take care of themselves for
ile.

:‘- hen the din subsides invite them into the
g room for refreshments. After the last
{SC is completed sing together “Auld Lang
” and “Good Night Ladies.” Then bid your
sts good night and a “Happy New Year.”

The Volunteer Leader in the

Recreation Program

(Continued from page 424)
playgrounds. Last summer the Recreation
d had on the playgrounds eight workers each
whom had served for an entire seasonas a
nteer. The plan has developed to the point
re there are now as many .volunteers as paid
em on the playgrounds. .«

 

   
   
   
   
   
 
  

Where the Women ,Helped .

,- hen the Board of Education of Akron, Ohio,
(1 it impossible to finance the playgrounds last
mer, Mr. M. H. Seitz, Director of Physical
' ation in the. schools, who had been in charge
the grounds for a number of years, raised a
‘ of $2,500 from rubber companies, parent-
er associations and individuals. His plan
lved employing fourteen people for ten weeks
.1... rate two school swimming pools, three full

playgrounds and four so-called play dis-
- s. A number of volunteers were required to
on this program. Mr. Seitz secured the
ices of about seventy-five women who for
- time prior to the opening of the season
d in preparing playground material, patterns
handcraft supplies. These volunteers were
nized under group chairmen and assigned to
cific activities. One playground in each play
ict was selected as a regularly supervised
round, and the leader there was responsible
organizing. and supervising. r.voluhnteers ,on
r grounds in the district.

With Nature in Winter .

- (Continued from page 425)

northern shrike has 'put 'in an appearance,
he too, will be looking for unwary mice and

1 birds.
fall migration of‘birds is ending, the her-

   
     
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   

 

' THE VOLUNTEER LEADER IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 451

mit thrush and the chipping sparrow being among
the last to leave. Wild geese still are pasSing
through. They Fly for long distances before stop-
ping to rest, and you may be so fortunate as to
see on some clear night a flock of them silhouetted
against the moon. The leader maintains his posi-

tion at the apex of the V which they form in
flight.

We are grateful to the downy woodpecker and
the chickadee for spending the winter here.
Downy is now searching trees for insect eggs and
is therefore a real benefactor in saving our trees
from'the depredations of millions of insects which
are destroyed in this way. Chickadee is such a
cheerful little bird that we can find it in our
hearts to welcome November’s gray days on
which his sweet “Chickadee-dee-dee” is especially
soul stirring.

Take a walk through the woods keeping the
senses alert for a whiff of fragrance which will
make you forget that it is not spring. Witch-
hazel’s shredded gold flowers are the last to
bloom, and we love them _for giving this touch of
color to the _sombre ‘woods. The seed pods from
last year’s blossoms are clustered around the
stems, and if they have not already shot their

JoUrnal of K
Physical Education

c, A practical

Christmas gift-
that will
inSpire all
through the
New Year

347 MADISON AVENUE
- NEW YORK CITY

Overseas and Canada $3.25
Single Copies 95c. _

Price $3.00

 

 

452 RECREATIONAL FEATURES OF COUNTY PARKS

shining black seeds you may be surprised to feel
the sting as one strikes your face with unexpected
force, expelled as -it is to a distance of several
feet when the pod splits open.

There is no better time in the year to look for
birds’ nests. They are visible now in the bare
trees where only a brief few months ago they were
hidden under cool green leaves, sheltering baby
birds. Very likely they will be piled full of soft
snow more than once this month—From News
Service of the Buffalo Museum of Science.

Recreational Features of County

or Metropolitan Parks
(Continued from page 429)

will be properly built in the metropolitan park.
Dancing does provide recreation. Its practice
has long been an outward exPression of the indi-
vidual. It has an important place in the organ-
ized play movement, and therefore in metropoli-
tan park programs.

PAGEANTRY. Opportunities should exist for
pageant‘ry wherever demand leads the way. The
outdoor amphitheater in many parts of the
country has led to outdoor concerts participated
in by tremendous numbers of people. * The idea
of establishing in every community such as am-
phitheater or stadium appeals as being most
proper on the perimeter of the city rather than in
the city’s center, tending in the proper direction
as far as traffic conditions are concerned and
furnishing another opportunity to make contacts
with the out-of—doors. The inierest of the public
in its parks can be fostered by means of historical
pageants with local color and background.

Leisure time, once 'the by-product of the indus-
trial system, has become its bug—a-boo. Shall
we allow it to bring about the scrapping of the
structure? Shall we turn this by—product into
profit? Shall we use and shall we help others
use their leisure time in such a way as to trans-
form a liability into an asset?> Park officials can
help greatly by establishing the right facilities
'and by administering them in the right way. Now
as never before a program is needed in the solu-
tion of the‘ leisure time problem. Metropolitan
parks offer their share of the solution in a group
of facilities designed to attract individual par-
t'1c1pation. ‘

From the standpoint of supplying natural park
facilities, of balancing the highly mechanized

    
  
  
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
   
    
   
 

lives of the greater number of people, the
politan park is an important agent in the so
of the leisure time' problem. The nation
state parks have an important function
question, but the more local areas appear
statistics and observation to hold greater .
tages to a public that lives nearby. Recre
facilities in the metropolitan areas should I
termined by demand. They should not ap
ate the functions of other systems or the pu
of the city parks and playgrounds. Finally
should be subjected to the test of providin
vidual recreation or personal participation
than spectatorship. '

Pa rks

(Continued from page 435)

in the formulation of standards of selection.
state which does not formulate some wa
standard selection cannot possibly acquire
thing but a patchwork system. And ev
standards are formulated they are worthles
less state authorities shall have at the same
cultivated the ability to say ‘no’ and mea
refusing to accept prospective state park ,

unless they are worthy.”
“No pitfall is more serious. than the failu

segregate intensive uses, such as camping,
nicking, automobile parking, hotel and cabin
velopments from the extensive, which are c‘r.
but not wholly exemplified by the trail. On
the primary reasons why such serious mist
are being made in physical layout of state 9
is that those who are in authority are tryin
give the public everything it wants instea
giving each element in the public which
parks its fair share. The automobile must be
sidered, but it must be kept in fair relation to
park picture as a whole. Development mus
based on a proper balance between the dem
of the motoring public and'the desires of

pedestrians.”

A New Outdoor Recreation Cent

(Continued from page 437)

department will be organized for picnics, and
nic dinners fOr lodges, churches and si
groups will be offered by the department I
cost plus basis.

Launches are already in operation on a co
sion basis, and it is hoped to augment the.

  
   
    
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
    
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
  

. operated directly by the department. Ulti-
y the department will control and operate
. mps, camp sites and housing facilities in
tion with or adjacent to these recreational
c ies. This development realizes the dream of
O . Jacoby, for eleven years director of parks
$‘ laygrounds for the City of Dallas. It could
been made possible, however, only through
' ision of the Park Board members.

Other Recreation Areas

i addition to the facilities described, the Dal-
’ s rk Board maintains and operates forty-eight
vised playgrounds in the summer, one-half
hich are connected with school properties.
ty-five playgrounds are open in the winter.
' Board offers the public free of charge the
f 85 tennis courts, 27 wading and swimming
, 31 baseball diamonds, one municipal golf
e, 63 playground ball diamonds, ten indoor

4 outdoor basketball courts, 24 soccer fields,
' running tracks, 24 football gridirons and
que courts. The Board also maintains four
'cipal swimming pools, three municipal golf
es and one municipal zoo with more than
i specimens. The golf courses and swimming
. are self-supporting through nominal fees.

e of the latest developments in the Dallas
system is the construction of an athletic
\ and field houses at Kiest Park—a 176%
1. tract which was donated to the city by Edwin
iest in 1930. Later Mr. Kiest was appointed
mber of the Park Board and elected presi-
. The field house, costing less than $10,000,
e of the most beautiful of its kind in the
h and has adequate locker and shower facili-
or hundreds of baseball and tennis players.
rge reception room serves the purpose of a
ing room, a place far parties, dances and
group activities.

P

ht tennis courts have already been con-
ted. Eight grass baseball diamonds and a
le path are under construction. The roads
gh the park are being gravelled and every
t is being made to complete Kiest Park as
thletic field and municipal club for baseball
tennis players. This does not mean, however,
the park and field house were built for the
sive use of baseball and tennis players. The
f the club house by these athletic groups will
0 event impair its use by the general public.

ecial picnic facilities, including tables,
hes, barbecue pits and ovens, have been in-

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 453

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES
Landscape Architecture, October 1932.

Problems in Camp Planning, by R. Alice Drought.
Design and Construction of the Smaller Outdoor
Swrmming Pool, by \Villiam S. \Viedorn.

The Rec0rd of the Girls' Friendly Society, November 1932.
Games of Other Lands

Hygeia, October 1932.

Children’s Play— A Pastime or a Necessity for
Growth? by Dorothy Cannon Thompson.

Is Your Leisure a Menace or a Help? by J. Clarence
Funk.

The Journal of the National Education Association, No-
vember 1932.

Education for Leisure, by Eugene T. Lies.

Physical Education vs. Competitive Athletics, by
Ellis E. Beals.

The Epworth Higbroad. December 1932.
Panic Party, by E. O. Harbin.

The American City, November 1932.

Municipal Opera House Completes War Memorial
Group in San Francisco.

Inter-Playground Contest Teaches Safety.

Modern Lighting Equipment in a Park, by Raymond
H. Cowing.

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Educa-
tion Assn., October 1932.

Bibliography of Health and Physical Education, by
C. H. McCloy.

Monograph on Athletics for \Vomen and Girls—by
the Committee on Athletics for Girls and \Vomen.

PAMPHLETS

Report of the Westchester County (New York) Park
Commission, 1932.

Fifth Annual Report Division of Recreation, Dept. of
Welfare, Louisville, Ky., 1932.

Annual Report Oglebay Park Activities, 1932 (Wheeling,
W. Va.).

History and Program for the Indian Village Camp.

Held under the auspices of the Columbus. Ohio,
Recreation Department.

.—-—————___._____.—_—=_—________=.___..___.__==
stalled. Playground apparatus of all sorts have
been in use for several months. The park is be-
ing developed according to a plan made up by
L. H. \Veir in the fall of 1930. The Board feels
that when this plan has been completed it will

represent the finest possible type of recreation
unit.

 

Recreation on the Nature Trail
(Continued from page 441)

Still another found on a strangely beautiful
plant citizen of the shaded forest—

Awr'v -

      
  

>

Four Decision Is

<<<

      

ONSIDERABLE interest has been evidenced this
fall ‘in the game of Touch Football. A sub-
committee of the National Rules Committee

is preparing a complete code of rules. Some of
the important rule suggestions are liSted.

I. The field is divided into three zones?
thirty yards, forty yards, and thirty
yards in length, as per description.

30 yds. 40 yds. 30 yds.

II. Each team shall consist of eight players.
one of whom shall be Captain. (Using
five men on a line, namely center, two
guards, and two ends, with three men in
the backfield——-—the correct balance be-
tween offense and defense seems to have
been reached.) The eleven-man team is
unsatisfactory for Touch Football.

III. The team putting the ball in play must
have at least five men on the line of
scrimmage. The defensive team lines up
on an imaginary line parallel to the line
of scrimmage of the offensive team, sep-
arated by a space equal to the length of

the ball.

IV. If in four consecutive downs a team hav—
ing continuously had the ball in its pos—
session shall not have advanced the ball
to the line marking the next zone area,
it shall go to the opponents on the spot
of the last down.

V. The player with the ball is declared down
and the ball is dead at the point where
an Opposing player touches him with
two hands below the shoulders or above
the knees. (Comment—This two-hands
rule is absolutely important. It does away
with arguments and questions as to
whether the player is touched, which oc—
cur so often with throne-hand rule. It
gives some possibility for running plays
and dodging by the runner. This is one
point in which the game is weakened by
permitting the one-handvtouch.) v

trecreation yet to. be recognized as worth

4:4 OUR DECISION IS

VI. Any player of either side may rece'
forward pass. .

VII. A'ny number'of forward passes are
mitted in each series of downs.

VIII. Tackling, pushing,"'tripping, holdi
roughing by any player shall be pen
by a loss of fifteen yards to the offe
team. 

IX. Offside shall be penalized by a 1

five yards for the team committin
offense.

l
l

  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 

X. Blocking shall be done‘by use of
and body without use of hands.
feet must remain on the ground in b
ing as well 'as touch tackling. B
contact with the kicker is a foul. Pe
—-—-10 yards.

WILD GINGER

Asarum canadense B irth'wort Fami

The root of this plant smells strongly a
ginger, especially when bruised. It is us
in medicine and -in the manufacture a
perfume.

The exceedingly odd, purplish - bro'z
flowers appear in April and May and a
not seen by the casual observer, since th
occur at the base of the stem and lie near
buried in the ground.

These will suffice to make it apparent tha
nature trails are not without educational val .

“But what of these park trails in wint
might well be asked. f‘Will they lie useless
discarded after the leaf has fallen and the
late blooming flowering plants have succu
to cold?” The answer is: “Not altogether.”
be sure, many of the fine and colorful feat
will disappear till the coming of another sp
But the trees, shrubs, and vines will remain, .
though leafless, will still retain their labels
may be studied in a new and absorbing p
Of winter hikers there are many, and som
these, discovering the old familiar markers,
undoubtedly take to passing over the path
learned to like in fair summer weather.

With others, I firmly believe that nature t
in public parks are bound to become very pop
and while they are intended primarily to ins
there can be no doubt that they offer a for

intense cultivation.

  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

Charter for the Social Sciences

[in the Schools

d by Charles A. Beard. Charles Scribner’s Sons.
York. $1.25.

IS volume the Commission on the Social Studies
ered by the American Historical Association pre-
Part I of its report having to do with objectives.
chapter entitled “The Climate of American Ideas”
Beard expresses the importance of leisure. Labor,
ys, although a duty, is not an end in itself, nor does
cupy the whole of life. “In the American scheme
- is a right and the provision of leisure for the
ment of life is one of the objects of enlightened in-
y. . . Whatever remains to be achieved, leisure is
now so abundant that its ideal use is one of the
ems of education. Exploited by cheap and often
ing commercial amusements, it may be turned from
. portunity into a blight; it may be devoted to activi-
th-at re-create and refresh the spirit, or diversions
contract and lower vitality.”

Games and Game Leadership

les F. Smith. Dodd, Mead and Company. New
(658 pages.) $2.50.

IS book is one of the most comprehensive volumes
to be published on the subject of games and their
rship. Descriptions of 711 games together with in-
tion on how to lead them are given for parents,
ation leaders and teachers. The bodk has tested
games as well as old ones which have proved univer-
popular. Mr. Smith has avoided the fault of many
rn game books of giving catchy new titles to old
5; the old games described go under their own fa-
r names. Of particular interest to the game leader
recreation director are the following chapters: The
ership of Games and Recreations, Leadership of
asium and Playground Activities, Informal Ball
5 (skill games leading up to basketball, football,
, Circle Games for Gymnasium and Playground,
Races for Gymnasium and Playground, Miscellan-
Playground Games and Tournaments, The Leader-
of Social Recreation, Stunts for Leaders, Pre-Open-
Party Activities and Social Mixer Games, Musical
5 and Informal Dances, Social Relays for Parties,
and Pencil Games, Rotative Party Games, Miscel-
us and Seasonal Party Games, Picnic Activities and
r Sports, Treasure Hunts and Trails, and VVoodsy
' ies. The section on home play will prove useful
I’: director because of the many practical suggestions
e promotion of family recreation. To facilitate the
' , of singing games, the description of the game
my cases is accompanied by the music.

well worked out system of classification and index-
: es the volume very useful as a handbook. As a

New Books on Recreation

whole the book is both significant and timely and will

prove of great help to all who are responsible for con-
ducting play activities.

"Kit" 3|
Creative Recreation. Edited by Katherine and Lynn

 Church Recreation Service, Delaware,

THERE are four sections in this, the latest addition to

the Kit service—reports and projects, sixteen games
to make, twenty-six games to play, and six songs with
music. Special Kits to be issued in the near future are
Kit 32, Socials and Parties; Kit 33. a Game Number;

Kit 34, a Stunt Number, and Kit 35, Camp and Con-
ference Recreation.

Aims and Methods in School Athletics

\Vingate Memorial Foundation, 57 East 56th Street, New
York. $2.00.

oarv-mcnr authorities in athletics, education, health

and social welfare have contributed to this volume of
481 pages representing the edited record of the \Vingate
Athletic Lectures delivered during the past year before
the athletic teachers and coaches of New York City.
One section is devoted to a discussion of the way of prog-
ress toward sound educational objectives; another is con-
cerned with the upbuilding of dynamic health, while a
third section deals with variations in aims and methods
applicable to special groups. Playing and coaching fun-
damentals in thirteen sports and games are presented
from the intramural and varsity viewpoints.

Our Children

Edited by Dorothy Canfield Fisher and Sidoni-e Matsner
Gruenberg. Prepared and sponsored by the Child Study

Association of America. The Viking Press, New York.
$2.75.

Tms important book has grown out of the questions

asked by parents who have come to the Child Study
Association seeking help in the training of their children.
The association has made the answers to these questions
and its experiences through a generation and a half of
service available to all parents in this handbook to which
twenty-nine experts in child study have contributed. The
purpose of these contributors has been to interpret re-
search findings for the lay leader withOut oversimplitica-
tion and without partisan leanings, and to present the-
ories and suggestions hopefully but without unwarranted
finality. The contributions have been classified under
four main sections—The Child’s Growth and Develop-
ment; The Child at Home; The Child at School, and
The Child in the Outside Werld. The book'as a whole
represents the best current knowledge and most expert
present day information, and should be of great value not
Only to parents but to all workers with children.

455

456 . NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Report on Character Education in the Secondary
Schools.

Bulletin No. 16 of the Department of Education,
State House, Boston, Massachusetts.

A special committee, of which Herman Gammons, prin-
cipal of Arlington High School, is chairman, presents
this report to help teachers, through the instruction and
administration of the school, realize the establishment of
good character, recognized as one of the objectives of
education. The longest and most important section of
the book sets forth at some length the importance for
character education in the schools. A careful reading of

this section reveals a surprising list of opportunities for

such training in the daily life of the school.

Y. M. C. A. Boys' Work.

National Council Boys’ Work Committee, 347 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $1.50.

This volume interprets the findings of the Fourth
North American Assembly of Y. M. C. A. Workers With
Boys held at Blue Ridge, North Carolina, May 28th
to June 4, 1932 The program of the assembly was set
up on the basis of the needs and problems revealed by
questionnaire (or “program instrument”) sent in advance
to boys’ worlkers throughout the country.- The material
is therefore concrete. It is at the same time illuminated
by an interpretive philosophy. Several of the sections
have to do with matters not closely within the field of
public recreation workers, but the section on Professwnal
Standards—control of entrants, training, security, profes—
sional ethics—has interest for our field, as has the section
on Practices in Individual Guidance, containing hearty
recognition of the importance of the new techniques, in-
cluding the psychological and psychiatric, in guidance
problems.

The two sections of most interest to the public recrea-
tion field have to do with group work and supervisory
practices and with the social forces affecting boys._ The
first of these chapters is full of the practical material on
which successful boys’ work in the Y. M. C. A. has been
based. Boys’ programs in the Y. M. C. A. today are
increasingly based upon boy interests, and natural “co-
hesive” groups are sought. This report is notable for_its
recognition of the great variety of social forces affecting
boys which any successful boys’ rwork program must take
into consideration. Boys’ workers are urged to know
social facts and to identify themselves with causes seeking
for a better social order.

American Civic Annual.

Edited by Harlean James. American Civic Asso—
ciation, Union Trust Building, Washington, D. C.

Volume IV of the American Civic Annual presents
an interesting and valuable record of recent civic ad-
vance and a list of “who’s who” in civic achievement
among the members of the American Civic Association.
It discusses developments from a national point of view
in national parks, land planning, the Federal city and
housing. Regional developments are stressed, while from
the point of view of the states information is offered on
state planning and roadside improvement. A number of
city planners and other experts have discussed develop-
ments in cities and towns. The volume presents a most
interesting symposium of material contributed by more
than forty specialists. The Annual is sent to paid mem—
bers and subscribers to the American Civic Association
who may purchase extra copies for $2.00 each. The price
to the general public is $3.00 each.

Christmas Plays.

Selected by A. P. Sanford and Robert Haven
Schaufiier. Dodd, Mead and Company, New York.
$2.50.

Nineteen plays, all written for the celebration of Christ-
mas, comprise this new anthology. T'here is a wide
variety in treatment—some are festive, some mythologi-

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
     
  
  
    
    
  
 
  
  
   
      
     
   
    
   
    
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

cal, and others religious. In length, too, there is a b
choice, ranging from short one act plays to fairly
ones in three acts. Plays for children of almost any
and for girls and boys, separately or together, are t
found. In all cases the scenery and costuming are
tremely simple and may be made at little expense.

 

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEM
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE AC

CONGRESS OF AUGUST '24, 1912, of RECREATION, pub

monthly at New York, N. Y., for October 1, 1932.

STATE or New YORK,
COUNTY or New YORK. 5:.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and c
aforesaid personally appeared H. S. Braucher, who, having
duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he i
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best 0
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership,
agement (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the .
said publication for the date shown in the above caption
quired by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section

Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of
form, to Wit:

'1. That the names _and addresses of the publisher, editor,
aging editor, and busmess managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor: H. S. Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York,

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue,
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: Arthur Williams, 315 Fourth Avenue,
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its .v
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunde
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a
poration, the names and addresses of the individual owners
be given. If owned by a Firm, company, or other unincorpo

concern, its name and address, as well as those of each indivi
member, must be given.)

National ‘Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
York, N. Y.

Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.; William Butterw
Moline, 11].; Clarence M. Clark, Philadelphia, Pa.; Henr
Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jackson
Fla,; F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.;
Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.; John H. Finley,
York, N. Y.; Hugh Frayne, New York, N. Y.; Robert Gar
Baltimore, Md.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle Wash.; Wil
Hale Harkness, New York, N. Y.; Charles thden, New
N. Y.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; !
Francis deLaCy Hyde, Plainfield, N. J.; Gustavus T. Kirby, ~
York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Ch
D. Lanier, Greenwich Conn.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte, N.
Joseph Lee, Boston, Mass; Edward E. Loomis, New York. N.
J.'H. McCurdy, Springfield, Mass; Otto T. Mallery, Phil
phia, Pa.; Walter A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E. Milli
Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, Washington, D. C.; Fre
ick S. Titsworth, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. James W. Wadsw
Jr., Washington, D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.; Fre
ick M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.; John G. Winant, Conc
N. H.; Mrs. William H. Woodin, Jr., Plainfield, N. J.

3. That the known bgndholders, mortgagees, and other secu
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amoun

bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none
state.) None. .

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the name
the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, con
not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they
pear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where
stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the c
pany as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name
the person or corporation for Whom such trustee is actin
given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements
bracing adiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumsta
and conditions under which stockholders and security he]
who do not appear upon books of the company as trustees,
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona
owner; and this afiiant has no reason to believe that any 0
person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or

direct in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as
stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this -
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise,
paid subscribers, during the six months preceding the date sh.
abilive) is (This information is required from daily publicat
on y.

H. S. BRAUCHE

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 24th day of Sep
ber, 1932.

[SEAL] CLARENCE B. WILSON,

Notary Public, Queens Cou

Queens County Clerk’s No. 2069. Certificate Filed in
York County Clerk’s No. 510.

(My commission expires March 30, 19

