THRIFT

HY should a recreation movement be interested in Thrift
Week? What has thrift—saving—to do with recreation—
living?
Thrift relates to time as well as to money. Thrift is for the
purpose of ultimate spending rather than merely saving. The goal
is a satisfactory and happy life, continuing growth, fulfillment of all

one’s obligations as a man.
We save time because time is about the most valuable possession

we have and there are so many worth while things to be done. '

Growth is so largely dependent upon thrift, not frittering away time.
In a rich world full of adventure and color and beauty and sport,
it is of the greatest importance that time and all that represents time
be not carelessly thrown away. '
Recreation leaders dealing with children and young people in
their happy hours of freedom are vitally concerned in developing
such an attitude of mind that time, with money which represents
time, is not thrown away, but is saved for more glorious living.
Rightly, therefore, we cooperate with other groups in the com-
munity in calling attention to thrift in order that those whom we
represent may later throw themselves with freedom and abandon

into such spending—such living—as will be permanently satisfying.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

January I7-23. I932. is +0 be observed as Thrif’r Week. Many recreafion workers will
share in +|1e observance of +his week during which addressesI radio +alks. wide disfribu-
+ion of lifera’rure and newsPaper publici’ry will bring +0 fhe ah‘en'lion of +he public +he

va sf importance of well direc’red +l'1riff pracfices.

533

The Joy of Making Things

 

Photo H. Armstrong Roberts

"Man boys and girls in our modern cifies have
pracficall rheir only oppor+uni+y for using fools and
making fhings wifh rheir own hands on fhe play-
grounds and in {he recreafion cem‘ers. In modern
aparfmenf houses if is praciically im ossible #0 have
work benches and fool chesfs. an lhere is liHle

534

space for all he liHer fhaf goes wiih carpenrer work.
There is a real loss when children are nof given lhe
Opporfunify of making rhings and forming habifs of
work—pariicularly habits of working on rhings fhey
really like lo do."

Education and Leisure

Education for the wise use of leisure—
the task of the school, the home, the

church and all other community agencies.

5 a citizen of the
United States I
cannot speak in this

place Without being con-
scious of those cordial and
fruitful relations which ex-
ist between the Dominion of
Canada and my country.
We must all rejoice in Our
common background of cul-
ture and aspiration, in the
ideals which we share, and
in the fact that our 3,000
miles of common boundary
r eq u i r e no fortification.
Such a fact is prophetic of
the future when good faith
and good will between na-
tions will have become a
stronger fortress than all
the cement and big guns
that were ever made.

Nor can I speak before
this Recreation Congress
Without being aware that
this year marks the twenty-
fifth anniversary of this great movement. These
twenty-live years represent an achievement of
most far-reaching significance. They mark the
beginnings of a new phase in human life, far
richer than anything the world has yet seen.
Leisure is upon us, and wise use of it can do as
much to lift the level of civilization during the
next century as the development of the common
school has done during the past century. The
National Recreation Association and the move-
ment for which it stands are certain to grow be-

 

Through the medium of "The
Journal of the National Education
Association" of which he is editor.
Mr. Morgan is stressing the great

task of the school to train for the
right use of leisure.

By Joy Elmer Morgan
Washington, D. C.

cause they represent an in-
creasing need of large cen-
tral significance.

Increasing Leisure ~an
Assured Fact

Barring the disaster of
another great war or some
"similar calamity, increasing
leisure is as certain as to-
morrow’s sun. The civil-
ized countries‘of the world
today face the choice be-
tween chronic unemploy-
ment for millions of people
or increasing leisure for all
peOple. This is just an-
other way of saying that
the world’s work can be
done in less time by fewer
people than ever before.
This improvement in our
working power has been
going on rather strikingly
for nearly a century but the
great gains have been within recent decades with
even greater gains probable in the years imme-
diately ahead. These gains are the result of
trained intelligence. Fundamentally they are the
product of the common school and the scientific
movement which has grown out of the univer-
sities. By means of large scale organization we
have reduced overhead, lessened wasteful com-
petition, and have created excellent products at
amazing prices. I need only remind you that
today it is possible to buy for $800 a better auto-

535

536 EDUCATION AND LEISURE

mobile than could have been bought five years
ago for $2,000. This is merely an illustration of
the gain that has been made in many other fields
of production. Much of this gain is due to the
replacement of men by machines that can do the
work faster and even better than men. Much
of it is the result of better planning.

The effects of more careful planning and inte~
gration of industry may be expected to be even
greater in the future than in the past. During
the war with twenty percent of our man power
withdrawn into the army we produced twenty
percent more commodities as the result of larger
planning. If this can be done during war with
its waste and confusion, more striking results are
possible in times of peace. No one can estimate
the still further gains which may be made when
men come to measure their success in industry
and business not by the size of fortunes accumu-
lated but by the quality of service performed.

The five-day week and the six-hour day should
have been adopted in the United States in 1920.
This would have saved much of our present mis-
ery. Today these shorter working periods are
imperative measures of relief and reconstruction.
To fail to learn that lesson is merely to make
sure that within a few short years we shall again
repeat this bitter period of chaos and depression.
Industry faces a choice between a shorter week
and chronic unemployment and confusion with a
possibility of revolution as the ultimate way out.

In spite of vast and needless expenditures for
armies and navies, chronic unemployment has
been steadily growing worse in all civilized coun-
tries except Russia, which is trying to make up in
.a few years the economic retardation of centuries.
Unemployment would have been more conspicu-
ous and more serious still had it not been for the
development of the common school which has
been rapidly absorbing potential labor that other-
wise would have been on the employment market.
The increased enrollment in the common school
in itself represents the greatest expansion of
leisure, in the sense of freedom from wage-earn-
ing, that the world has ever seen. Those of us
who have enjoyed the fruits of this great advance
are hardly aware of its magnitude or its signifi-
cance. Joseph McCabe in his book A Century of
Stupendous Progress described conditions in
England and \Vales as he found them in the
year 1825:

“From the age of seven onward at least three-
fourths of the children of Britain worked twelve
hours a day. In those days about one child in

ten was illegitimate, and these unwanted young-
sters very largely fell to the care of the ‘parish.’
The parish got rid of them as soon as possible,
commonly at the age of five or six, by presenting
them to the large mill-owners; and from that day
neither parent nor State took the slightest interest
in their fate. But we have seen the conditions
of work, and we can understand how they dropped
out of the race, by tens of thousands, until only
a minority of them survived their teens. A writer
of the time tells us that few men could continue
in the factory system beyond the age of forty.
After that, crippled or enfeebled. they “went on
the parish,” or earned a modicum of bread by
light or casual work. The blight on childhood
was revolting. There was no recreation or even
leisure for the great majority of the children of
Britain except on one day each week—Sunday—
and two day-holidays in the year.”

Conditions are far better in England today in
Spite of the disaster of war and its aftermath.

A Broader Concept of Education and Leisure

\Vithin less than a century the United States
has passed from a stage where the common school
was a pauper affair to a development wherein
the elementary school is universal and the sec-
ondary school is enrolling a larger and larger
share of the people of secondary school age, with
a corresponding gain in enrolment in the colleges
and professional schools. The high-school en-
rolment in the United States by 1880 had reached
100,000. Every decade since then it has doubled
or more than doubled so that the approximate
figures read 200,000 for 1890, half a million for
1900. a million for 1910, two million for 1920,
and by 1930 five million young people receiving
the finest education ever given the masses. It
must be plain to anyone that had this vast army
of young people who have been drawn into the
upper elementary and high schools, remained on
the labor market, our problem of unemployment
would have been much more serious than now.

This increase in school enrolment may continue
for a time but the saturation point is not far away.
There are already communities where it is the
accepted practice of every normal young man or
woman of high-school age to finish high school
as a matter of course and it is quite possible
that within another 25 years or sooner all young
people of this age will be in high schools or in
special schools suited to their needs.

One is reminded of that great essay by John
Fiske in which he points out The Meaning of

EDUCATION AND LEISURE 537

Infancy, calling attention to the striking biological
fact that there is a close relation between the
length of infancy and the heights to which life is
able to rise. Biological organisms which are
simple and have little to learn in order to main-
tain themselves upon the earth are able to reach
maturity in a short time. Biological organisms
which have much to learn require a longer period
of immaturity. They are much more dependent
upon their parents and even upon the group as a
whole for their preliminary training and prep-
aration. We may therefore look upon this length-
ened period of social care for our youth as an
opportunity to lift ourselves to yet higher planes
in the scale of life. The degree to which we are
able to do this will depend upon the intelligence
with which'we manage our educational processes.
Necessarily they must be much broader, much
freer, much more dynamic and adaptive in the
future than they have been in the past.

advance of civilization. They represent an in-
crease in common wealth greater than our mate-
rial accumulations. Buildings can be rebuilt in a
few weeks, even whole cities may be made over
in a few years, but it requires a generation of per-
sistent and difficult labor to establish one of these
enlarged habits of thought. When the school
forcesrof the United States were first organized
they called themselves the National Teachers-
Association. Gradually as the concept broadened
a new notion came into the minds of the profes-.
sion and the name was changed to the broader
ideal of the National Education Association. When
the play movement was first organized there was
large emphasis upon the idea of playgrounds—
a sort of water-tight compartment of life asso-
ciated with a specialized area. It was a whole-
some change made by the Playground and Rec-
reation Association of America in adOpting the
name National Recreation Association, which

It is a fortunate title that

links together in a single
p h r a s e “Education” and
“Leisure.” They have always

been closely associated. It
was not until man had risen
above the period of slavery
and drudgery that education
for the masses became pos-
sible. And it is only through
still larger leisure that educa-
tion can be freed from the nar-
row limits that were placed
upon it in an earlier day. Even
so recently as my own child-
hood play was looked upon as
an occupation for children and
even then an occupation to be
indulged only when the heavy
chores of the farm had been
done. It "is a far cry from that
day to this, which looks upon
play as an inalienable right of
childhood and a necessary fac-
tor in normal development.
We are coming to see now
that play is not only necessary
for children but that it is nec-
essary for grownups and that
the very word play requires a
broader and;richer interpreta-
tion.

These broader conceptions
are an important part of the

"All over the world we are asking
the school to bear a burden that does
not belong to Hand that it cannot
carry. We are seeking to excuse the
family from its fundamental responsi-
bility. We are overlooking the respon-
sibility of society itself and are losing
sight of the particular part of this re-
sponsibility that the churches ought
to bear. All these agencies must do
their share if the plastic infant is to
have a chance to come into his full
inheritance. . . . The school has a part
to pla in education of course. a large
part, but it is only one highly organ-
ized instrumentality. Many of those
deficiencies that we criticize in the
schools of this land and in other lands
are due in no small part to the fact
that we are asking the school to take
over and perform in five hours a day,
five days a week, and less than forty
weeks a yearI the entire task of adapt-
ing the lastic infant to his environ-
ment andpof helping him to find a use-
ful place in that environment.

"Just as soon as we begin to think
of education in a larger sense, as in-
volving much more than instruction
and as covering much more than a
period of infancy. so soonI | thinkI do
we come to a point of view where
adult education begins to fall into its
proper place and to take on that large
and important meaning that certainly
attaches to it.'I — From I'Freedom.
Res onsibility and Intelligence" by
Nicholas Murray Butler—"Journal of

Adult Education," October. l93l.

means that the movement has
reached a fuller realization
that an adequate program of
recreation must be as broad
as life.

Perhaps there is no better
way to illustrate this broader
aSpect of recreation and leisure
than to refer to some of the
problems of today’s life. We
may take the seven great areas
of activity that are associated
with the seven cardinal objec-
tives of education.

The Seven Cardinal Objec-
tives of Education

The problem of health is
much on our minds these
days. We have in the United
States the White House Con-
ference on Child Health and
Protection. We have the
President’s Committee on the
Costs of Medical Care. We
have growing programs of
health service in the schools.
Research in the field of medi-
cine is generously financed by
vast foundations. But the
great problem is not the prob-
lem of surgery or sanitation or
the prevention of contagious
diseases, great as all these are.

538 EDUCATION AND LEISURE

Our biggest problem in health is to maintain the
vigor and vitality of our race in an age that has
robbed most of our people of that daily contact
with sun and air and soil and struggle on which
our vitality has been based.

In spite of medical science and sanitation, civil-
ized men and women face today a loss of vitality
and vigor which may easily wipe out in the death-
rate during their middle years all the gains that
have been made in the prevention of death among
infants. The growth of densely populated cities
always has been, and inescapany is, a morbid
and decadent phase of social change in which
people lose both mental and physical freedom.
It requires greater intelligence and larger leisure
to maintain individual and racial vigor under the
new conditions than under the old.

Or take the problem of family life. The home v

is the richest soil that was ever given for the
development of the human race. In all civiliza-
tions which have gone the farthest the home has
been highly esteemed. Appreciation of home is
embodied in our laws. It is deeply embedded in
our customs. It is the center of the most abiding
satisfactions. And yet in our greedy pursuit of
large profits, in the development of our cities we
have forgotten to keep the home first. We have
crowded millions upon millions of people into liv-
ing situations that utterly crush and destroy family
life. With all of our teaching of homemaking,
with all our efforts to improve schools, we cannot
find the solution to the problem of family life
until we are willing and able to surround the

.—-—-—

 

     

Laurie's.) U. S. Forest Service

-———-——

homes of the people with beauty, fresh air, sun,
and quiet. This means almost a total replanning
of our cities and states and a new vision of con-
tinental conservation as the foundation of a rich
and worthy home life. Already such a movement
is under way and its relation to education and to
recreation must be intimate and constant. With
our homes crowded into the most sordid sur-
roundings it is little wonder that people leave the
domain of home life. It is little wonder that
neighborhood life and community feeling as the
foundation of civic, educational, and social
achievement have been slow to develop.

The third of the seven objectives is learning.
One of the central problems in connection with
learning is to free it from the strait-jacket of
formalism and deadly school routine. The school
should be the happiest place on earth and, at its
best, the most creative and most fruitful. The
best schools are just this. But below the level
of the best schools are institutions so rigid in
their formal organization as practically to defeat
the ends of learning for which they exist. The
school can be made a place where learning is an
unhappy business and where petty accuracies are
held so much in the foreground that the deeper
aspirations of the learned life are unable to take
root.

Such a situation is not entirely the fault of
the teacher. It is also the fault of the system,

Carrylng on the educational process In the “larger
classroom of the fields, the forest and the skies."

"Wa‘f

' l

and beyond the system of
the community in which
the teacher works. We all
recognize the importance
of sun and fresh air and
nature in the development
of the child mind and yet
how many communities
are there where a teacher
could without criticism
take his class of children
on a bright September
afternoon from the formal
exercises of the school-
room out into the larger
classroom of the fields, the
forest, and the skies? Not
until parents have been
taught to appreciate the
meaning of freedom and
self-discipline in the learn-
ing process can leisure in
the school he the force
which in the nature of
things it should be. The
library, the laboratory, the

EDUCATION AND LEISURE
HOW SCHOOLS CAN ENRICH l_.E|SURE

By introducing young people to a wide range
of life interests.

By teaching the use of books and libraries
and developing wholesome reading appetites
closely related to each of the great objectives
of education and life.

By-developing appreciation of fine music and
skill in singing. playing. and dancing. 

By having children participate in games and
sports which may be easily continued in after
years.

By providing experience in pleasant social
life through school activities and clubs.

B cultivating in children a love of the out-
ot-cibors —appreciation of flowers. animals.
landscape. sk . and stars.

B giving children an opportunity to develop
hobbies in various creative fields—gardening.
mechanics. applied arts. fine arts. architecture.
city planning.

By making the school and its playtields the
center and servant of a wholesome and satis-
fying neighborhood life.

By calling attention to various recreational
agencies and the values which they serve—
theaters. concerts. libraries. radio. periodicals
and newspapers. museums. parks. playgrounds.
travel.—From "The Journal of the National
Education Association."

539

its broader aspects.

It is one of our great-
est problems in govern-
ment, therefore, to over-
come the sheeplike ten—
dencies in our pe0ple, to
teach them to be inde-
pendent, to be critical, to
be intelligent, to weigh
facts, and to form judg-
ments in the light of those
facts as the basis for civic
action. We have heard
much during recent
months of racketeering
and of collusion between
the police forces and the
criminal world. These
conditions could not and
would not deve10p if the
ordinary citizen were alert
and watchful and fully
conscious of his responsi-
bility for a wholesome and
vigorous public sentiment
in behalf of order and jus-

shop, the garden and the

playfield will be major factors in the school of
tomorrow, and there will be enough freedom.and
leisure in this school so that children of different
types will establish lifelong habits of using their
leisure happily, wisely. In the life of tomorrow
intelligence must not be a sideline. Our schools
must develop men and women who can learn and
go on learning; who can think and who can be
trusted to go on thinking; who can grow and go
on growing.

Or again let us look at one of the problems of
education for citizenship. It takes a greater in-
telligence and a greater skill to be a faithful citi-
zen today than it has ever required before. There
are even those who believe that the problems of
citizenship have become so intricate that demo—
cracy itself has broken down. I do not share
that view. I believe that the minds and hearts
of the common people are still, and will continue
to be the safest foundation upon which to erect a
stable and useful government. But if democratic
governments are to remain stable and useful there
must be increasing watchfulness on the part of
the citizen. The specialist in government like
the specialist in any other phase of life needs the
corrective infiuence of men and women of wide
experience and common sense who see life in

' and beautiful.

tice.
Crime is merely bad adjustment to one’s sur-
roundings. It simply means that what we have
been putting into the human mind through war

.and moving pictures and yellow journalism is

coming out in action. We can restrain crime a
little through police courts and jails but that is
a costly process and is no solution of the prob-
lem. The real solution lies on the constructive
side. We shall clear up the evils of our life by
substituting for them things that are true and good
We shall begin with the home
and the planning of the community and the city
and the state which furnish the setting of the
home. We shall so manage these matters that
there will be privacy and quiet, sun and air and
gardens for the children and for those older chil-
dren who need these forces quite as much as the
little ones. We shall enrich the school bringing
into it more of life, of responsibility, of action,
of the cooperative spirit which must underlie the
civilization of tomorrow.

Let us turn for a moment to one of the main
problems of vocational life. Here our need is
the development of individual skill and social
adaptability. One phase of unemployment today
is the number of unemployed not sufficiently skill-
ful to meet the higher standards which have

540 EDUCATION AND LEISURE

grown up, or who lack that social adaptability
which would enable them to move from one occu-
pation to another. There is a very close connec-
tion between this need for skill in labor and
leisure, as Joseph Lee, the philosopher of the rec-
reation movement, has so aptly pointed out. \Ve
shall find our vocational life enriched by the in-
crease of skill developed in our recreational life.
In his valuable book on Constructive Citizenship,
L. P. Jacks has suggested that the creative im-
pulses, the skills, and the development of artistic
tastes which go along with leisure will flow back
into the fields of productive industry as a never-
ending source of enrichment. It is one of the
unfortunate facts of machine industry that it tends
to rob the individual of the satisfactions of crea-
tive production. He becomes so small a c0g in
so great a wheel that it is hard for him to feel
in the finished product that sense of individual
and personal satisfaction which was the joy and
pride of the old master
craftsman. Perhaps in the
gardens and the shops and
the laboratories of our
homes and schools we shall
create again for thelindivid-
ual this sense of originality
and distinctive achievement.

The sixth objective is
leisure. I have already in-
dicated what leisure should
mean for the school. There
are some pressing problems
in the field of leisure outside the school. One of
these problems is associated with the commerciali-
zation of leisure'—the efforts of selfish and greedy
men to use the appetites and spare time of the

is the enric

people as a means of making money. The gravest“

moral problems of all history have been associated
with this exploitation which seizes upon the lower
impulses because those impulses are the most
universal. A commercialized leisure always has
and always will pull down rather than up. \Ve
had a striking example of that in connection with
the old saloon and other forms of vice which were
associated with the saloon. We have another ex-
ample of it in the field of commercial gambling
which is again rearing its ugly head under vari-
ous guises of respectability and legal authority.
We have still another example of it in the more
sordid aspects of the motion picture business and
the radio.

This danger of commercialization can be met
in some measure through regulation and prohi-

"The reall challenging task for education

hment of leisure. The modern
high school will offer units in athletics. in
producing plays. making mechanical models.
reading literature. playing music. dancing.
telling stories. creating with rh thm. color.
and form in every sort of medium. Travel
and. for a few. foreign languages and math-
ematics. may enrich leisure. Special encour-
agement will be given to recreational ath-
letics which can continue throughout life. to
golf. tennis. swimming and hiking. rather
than basketball."—Goodwin Watson.

bition. We have pure food laws to protect men’s
stomachs from poisons that would destroy their
bodies; we shall likewise find ways to protect
men’s minds and emotions from the poisons
spread by those human vultures who are always
ready to destroy life if money can be made
thereby. But the only sure solution must lie in
the field of education. A generation ago we began
the movement for vocational education. That was
a most important advance which has not yet
reached its full development. We have now come
to a time when education for avocation is no less
important than education for vocation.

The seventh objective is character. Fine char—
acter is the supreme achievement. It is closely
associated with every other phase of life. It is
not easy to select the greatest problem in connec-
tion with character. There is one phase which
needs especial emphasis during this period of
standardization and that is the development of
personality. There are so
many forces at work which
tend to destroy personality,
to reduce people to a dead
level of monotonous same-
ness. Every normal individ-
ual needs to be conscious of
himself as an individual.
He needs to have a sense of
personal significance. of in-
dividual purpose. and of
distinctive a c h i e v e ment
without which life tends to
lose its meaning. In his essay What Makes a Life
Significant, “William James pointed out the value
of this feeling of individual responsibility. More
important to individual happiness than all the
benefits of a machine age are those elements of
personality and individuality which have so much
to do with the excellence and charm of life. It
was G. K. Chesterton who said, “The size of every
man depends upon the height of his ideals, the
depth of his convictions, and the breadth of his
sympathies and interests.”

In this discussion of the Seven Objectives we
have been talking about problems and even this
casual description must suggest that there is
enough to keep us all busy, that there need be no
unemployment in the field of education or rec-
reation. However, we can solve all these prob-
lems; we can take measures to protect and further
develop our physical vigor, we can create for the
home a setting in full keeping with the natural
needs of man, we can remake our schools, we can

EDUCATION AND LEISURE 541

eliminate graft from our government, we can de-
velop increasing skill in our vocations, we can
free our leisure from the grosser forms of com-
mercial exploitation, we may even secure a fair
development of personality without reaching those
higher planes of life which should be the logical
outgrowth of our rich and abundant heritage.
Our aspiration should be the development of a
civilization worthy of the accumulated efforts of
all the centuries.

Leadership and New Values

It is not necessary to tell you who have been the
pioneers in the field of recreation that these am-
bitions and aspirations require for their realiza-
tion men and women to do the work. During the
years ahead there must be recruited into the rec-
reation forces of the country a greatly increased
personnel trained for the task. Perhaps we can
get some idea of this problem of building up a
publicly supported personnel for the guidance of
leisure by making a comparison with the teaching
staff of the common school. If you will picture
to yourself the common school in any small com-
munity and analyze the ser—
vices of education and rec-
reation which need to be
performed for that commu-
nity you will realize that
there should be dedicated
to recreation leadership at
least one person for every
ten who are on the general
teaching staff. This means
that for the United States
as a whole there should be
something like 1 0 0 , 0 0 0
trained recreation leaders
w h o s e primary business
would be the improvement
of our leisure time. You
can calculate the figures for
your own state or your own
city by simply taking the
number of teachers and dividing by ten. This
means that a city of a million population which
has approximately 8,800 teachers should have
880 recreation leaders; that a great state like
Pennsylvania which has approximately 60,000
teachers should have at least 6,000 men and
women working under public auspices to provide
an enriched leisure for the people. If such a pro-
gram sounds ambitious and costly I need only re-
mind you that it is much less costly than crime, ill

"My contention is that every secondary
school should have its music rooms. its stu-
dios. its workshops and its reading rooms.
and that its instruction in literature should
have the definite purpose in the earlier
years of arousing any dormant interest in
reading and writing of which anyl pupil may
be possessed. . . . Every boy 5
the acquaintance of a wide variety of forms
of artistic expression and have 'a chance
himself to experiment with some of them.
and during the last years of his course he
should be encouraged to carry on in a
chosen field. From such a training the boy
ought to be able to discover some real abid-
ing interest which would serve him as a de-
lightful resource throughout his liteI and
would make him independent of outside
assistance in the use of his leisure."—From
"The Unintellectual Boy'I by Frederick Win-
sor. "Atlantic Monthly."

health, gambling, and dissipation. It is one of
the most economic measures that could possibly
be inaugurated by a great people.

We are at the very dawn of a new history.
Man is only beginning to be man. Until our day
comparatively few have had an opportunity for
education or for the thought-life. As this oppor-
tunity is extended it will bring out new qualities
in human nature. The leavening influence of
larger learning, of wider fellowship and nobler
companionship must inevitably make itself felt in
the evolution of human life. The elimination of
waste, the substitution of cooperation for com-
petition, the prevention of disease and war, the
increase of efficiency in thinking and doing which
is being developed in the schools—these are forces
whose influence is only beginning to be felt.

For the first time in human history the race
has reached a point in its growth where the
masses may enjoy the fruits of leisure without
enslaving other men. This is another way of say-
ing that the fundamental need for greed has been
removed even though greed lives on. Assuming
that we use the tools which are now available it
is possible to provide for
the entire population all the
food, clothing, shelter, edu-
cation and transportation
which they can possibly use
to advantage. The center
of gravity of our lives
should therefore shift dur-
ing the years ahead from
getting and doing to grow-
ing and being—from money
grabbing to excellence and
happiness of life. We need
to turn to leisure as one of
our most glorious and chal-
lenging opportunities. We
need to realize that the
home, the school, the
church, government, and
industry must all make their
contribution toward a leisure that is worthy of
the finest ideals of our people.

The first step in such a process is to establish
a sound philosophy of leisure, to fix in the minds
of our people the abiding values of life in terms
of the new situation. The struggle for values is
now going on. It is within our power to over-
stimulate the lower appetites or to cultivate the
higher desires and purposes. There are those

(Continued on page 586)

ould make

Courtesy Union County, A. 1., Park tommission

 

The preservation of the natural beauty of parks
by clever landscaping effects is In itself an art.

What a Modern Park Department Does

MODERN park depart- By L, H , Weir and equipment, employs and
ment is a composite of Nah-anal Recreah-on Associah-on directs a working personnel of a

ma ny different institu-
tions. It is an agency still in the process of devel-
opment, and no one knows at this time what a
modern park department will ultimately be doing
among future generations of people.

The functions of a park department comprise
business and personnel management, planning,
engineering, horticulture and forestry, landscape
architecture, legislation, law enforcement, and a
very wide range of cultural—educational-recrea-
tional services.

As a business institution it acquires lands,
executes contracts for improvements or itself per-
forms the functions of a construction contracting
firm. it maintains and administers lands, buildings

542

wide range of qualifications and
talents. It not infrequently operates public utili-
ties and income bearing facilities and activities.
It contracts for and handles large quantities of
supplies. In doing all these things of a business
nature it handles sums of money which the people
intrust to their care through appropriations, spe-
cial tax levies, bond issues, gifts and donations,
fees and charges.

In the year 1929 the total expenditure for pub-
lic recreation in all cities of 30,000 population and
over was nearly $70,000,000, the greater per cent
of which was administered through the park de-
partments of these 250 cities. The expenditures
for capital outlays exceeded the sums expended

WHAT A MODERN PARK DEPARTMENT DOES

g...

for operation and main-
tenance. In 1928 the
Bureau of Census, U. S.
Department of Com-
merce, issued a statement
to the effect that the
value of properties held
for purposes of' public
recreation in all cities of
50,000 and over, exceed-
ed the value of properties
held for public educa-
tion, and the value of the
public recreatiOn proper-
ties had reached the
enormous t o t al of
$2,169,000,000. T h e
greater percentage of
t h e s e properties are
under the control of the
p a r k departments of
these cities. The park
departments of the great cities of this country are
handling budgets for operation and maintenance
totalling many millions each year while many
smaller cities ranging from 150,000 upwards have
budgets for operation and maintenance ranging
from $350,000 to upwards of a million a year.

From time to time the budgets for capital out-
lays exceed the budgets for operation and main-
tenance. One county park department in this
country has during the past sixyears received for
capital outlays nearly $70,000,000. In the hand-
ling of the funds intrusted to its care by the peo-
ple the park department must necessarily become
a bookkeeping and accounting agency. In order
to give an account of its stewardship to the pe0ple
it must become a general record—keeping agency
covering not only all its linancial transactions but
also all its various services to the people.

As a planning agency the modern park depart-
ment must devise a comprehen-

.t .L.

. t

a.“

 

4,. «1..»  v.49;

.mum M'W-II'.

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park Commission

The construction of drives which will connect all parts
of apark system is an engineering feat requiring skill.

planning of a modern park system is now consid-
ered one of the most important and fundamental
phases of city planning of today. The planning
of a park and recreation system is intimately re-
lated to almost every other phase of general city
planning and it is a common practice to include
in the membership of city planning commissions

some representative of the park department.
As an engineering agency it makes use of civil,
landscape, construction, sanitary, hydraulic, light-
ing, architectural and social engineers so Wide is
the scope of its operations in this field. It makes
plane, topographic, hydrographic surveys, estab-
lishes grading levels, lays out systems of water,
sewage, lights, roads and trails and either con-
structs them or supervises the construction when
done under contract. It executes the designs of
the landscape architect and the building architect.
It keeps or should keep cost accounting records
of all engineering projects.

sive system of open spaces for
the preservation of the natural
resources of the community in
which it operates, for the
adornment of the city and for
the provision of opportunities
for active recreations of the
people. It must plan each sep-
arate property comprising the
general system of open spaces
so as to fit them for their high-
est usefulness to the people. The

Five years ago the National
Recreation Association made a
study of municipal and county parks
in the United States. This year. in
cooperation with the Bureau of
Labor Statistics of the Department
of Labor. the Association is making
a similar study in cities with a popu-
lation of 5.000 and over. Statistics
have been received from more
than |.000 cities. Findings of this
study are to be published in a bul-
letin which will be issued by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Where engineering work is

“done under contract the depart-
l“flent must be responsible for

drawing of specifications, mak-
ing estimates, execution of con-
tracts and general supervision
of the work.

As an horticulture agency it
preserves the native plant
growth on all park areas, en—
riches this growth wherever
deemed desirable by plantations

544 I/VHAT A MODERN PARK DPARTMENT DOES

phases should be predi—
cated on it. In its cul-
tural aspects landscape art
__ is the one fine art above
I' all others with which the
masses of the people are
brought into most intimate
contact. It assumes, there-
fore, a position of com-
manding importance in
every park department
both as it relates to the
material deve10pment and
maintenance of properties
and to the cultural devel-
opment of the people.

As a legislative agency
the modern park depart-

 

Courtesy Union County, .v. 1., Park Commission ' mcnt makes rules for the
governance of the general

of shrubs and trees and grass, operates business of the

. A Shakespeare garden adds charm and

greenhouses, conservatory, propagating givcs enjoymcnt to lovers of nature, department, and
beds and nurseries and frequently has special r u l e 5
charge of the planting and care of all street trees. governing the qualifications, duties, and conduct
It plants and maintains floral displays of many of employees, but its true legislative function
different types and is a center of information for more clearly appears in the formulation and pro-
the people of the community on what, how. when mulgation of rules and regulations governing the
and where to plant flowers, shrubs, trees and people in the use of the recreation properties and
lawns and how to protect them against injurious facilities. In independent park districts such rules
diseases and insect pests. and regulations have all the legality and force of
The functions of a ordinances of a city. In those depart-
modern park depart- The contribution of parks to the ments which are an integral part of a

joy of winter sports enthusiasts.

municipal government such rules and reg-

ment as a landscape

art institution embraces
many of the phases of its
functions in planning, en-
gineering, horticulture and
cultural - educational - rec-
reational services. Land— #-
scape art in its broadest
sense deals with the fitting
of any given area_ in a
park system for its highest
service to the people, at
the same time doing this
in a manner that is pleas-
ing to the eye and satisfy-
ing to the aesthetic sense.
Following the acquisition
and plans and topographic
surveying of properties, ;
landscape designing should '

precede all other phases of __ g __ ___ __

development and all Other Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park Commission

       

WHAT A MODERN PARK DPARTMENT DOES 545

ulations have the value and force of ordinances
when approved by the legislative body of the city.

In the enforcement of its rules and regulations
and of state laws or municipal ordinances apply-
ing to general enforcement of law and order on
park properties, the modern park department be-
comes an agency exercising the police powers of
the community. Many park departments main-
tain a force of park guards or police as a part

 

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park Commission

of their employed personnel.

All the foregoing functions
of a modern park department
are either preparatory to, or to
be considered as aids to, its
functions as a cultural-educa—
tional—recreational institution. Exception should
be made of horticulture and landscape architec-
ture since they have values of the highest worth
in themselves in the cultural—educational develop-
ment of the people aside from their relation to
the material development. of prOperties.

All the skills and arts of business and personnel
management, planning, engineering, landscape
architecture, horticulture, legislation and law en-

One of the greatest attractions a
park can offer people of crowded
cities are lakes or other waterways.
Their creation is one of the fine
achievements of park engineering.

forcement are employed better to enable the. mod—
ern park department to fulfill its mission of pro—
viding opportunities for “a more abundant life
for all.” This is the ultimate end and purpose
for which it exists—for which it labors.

In the broad held of the fine arts one of the
richest contributions made by the modern park
department is through landscape architecture. In
this art high standards were set from the begin-

u-r - «no-- e—rW-u-u-qu‘...“

ning of park development in
America by such men as Alex—
ander Jackson Dowing, Olm-
sted and Elder and his asso-
ciates, Vaux and Eliot, by
McLaren in San Francisco and
Cleveland, Wirth in Minneapolis, and by others.
The profession of landscape architecture today
includes many notable names all of whom are
from time to time making Splendid additions to
the beauty of parks by their designs. It is notice-
able that everywhere an effort is being made to
apply the principles of this great art to the designs
of even the smallest playgrounds and small parks
as well as to the large parks.

546 WHAT A MODERN PARK DEPARTMENT DOES

But the efforts of the modern
park department are not wholly
confined to this art. In not a
few of the parks throughout the
country there are notable exam-
ples of the plastic arts repre-
sented by plaques, statues, foun-
tains and monuments. There
are excellent examples of archi-
tecture in some club houses,
museums, music temples, out-
door theatres,
stadiums and other structures.
Fine art museums are becoming
more and more common in mod-
ern public parks. In these the
people have an opportunity not
only to view the works of great
artists in the fields of the sculp-
tured, plastic and the higher
forms of the handcraft arts, but
also to attend lectures, and
classes conducted in the mu-
seums. The numerous band
stands, music shells and a few

amphitheatres, '

"When any people has so or-
dered itself as to have placed the
majority of its members in condi-
tions that are so unnatural as to de-
prive them of the benefits of the
fundamental forces and the opera-
tion of natural lawsI there can be
but one answer to that situationI
and that is the gradual biological
decadence of the people.

"At no time in the history of the
world have the people of a great
nation so rapidly been separated
from that environmental condition
which supplies in abundance all
these fundamental biological things
as has been true in America, and
the one agency that stands in the
breach is the ark department of
today with its plians for open spa ces,
for the setting aside of areas that
will admit sunlight, that will admit
pure air, that will provide oppor-
tunities for the eople to renew
contact frequenty with the envi-
ronment that God made for them,
and with the opportunity for en-
gaging in those sports and games
and recreations that hark back
to old-age needs of the physical

Few institutions have a great-
er opportunity to instruct the
people in certain fields of the
natural sciences than do park
departments and the modern
park department is giving more
and more attention to this valu-
able educational - recreational
service. Every large park and
many smaller ones are living
laboratories for the study of
botany and ornithology. Prac-
tically every large park presents
opportunities for the study of
geology and physical geography.
The numerous zoos and a small-
er number of aquariums afford
first hand opportunities for the
study of living specimens of the
animal kingdom.

Nature trails, nature science
museums and conservatories are
increasing, and there is a grow-
ing tendency toward giving
more attention to labelling

music temples and amphithe-
atres attest to the fact that park
departments foster another one
of the great arts—music. Music in the form of
band concerts is almost universally presented by
park departments and within the last few years
choral and symphony concerts have been added
by a few departments. The orthophonic phono-
graph and the radio are now being called into use
and a few park departments in addition to employ-
ing band masters are employing community music
leaders .for the general development of music
among the pe0ple.

The number of outdoor and indoor theatres has
increased in public parks during recent years and
the promise of the future is that there will not
only be the general city-wide outdoor theatre but
that each neighborhood will have its neighborhood
outdoor theatre in public parks. This indicates
a marked tendency toward the fostering by park
departments of another of the fine arts, and a
few park departments now employ dramatic or-
ganizers and producers. The minor fine arts as
represented in the various handcraft arts have
occupied a prominent place in the recreational pro-
grams of well“ organized park departments and a
tendency is noted here and there toward develop-
ment of higher forms of creative effort in this

broad field.

bodyf'

specimens of flowers, shrubs
and trees in public parks for the
instruction of the people. A
very few park departments maintain botanical
gardens and arboretums. A very few now have
observatories affording an opportunity for a p0pu-
lar study of that most fascinating and alluring of
all sciences—astronomy. A new type of worker
is appearing on the staff of the modern park
department. He is known as the park naturalist
and his function is to organize and instruct the
people in those natural sciences for which parks
are best fitted to provide the materials for instruc-
tion. Wherever natural science museums exist in
public parks the staffs of these museums not only
provide instruction within the museum itself but
many of them organize and conduct an extensive
educational service throughout the community.
In the field of general recreation the modern
park department provides and operates children’s
playgrounds, playfields, tennis courts, stadiums,
athletic fields, swimming centers, golf courses, rid-
ing barns and riding trails, shooting ranges,
archery ranges, boating and canoeing centers, skat-
ing ponds and rinks, sliding places, ski jumps,
toboggan slides, field' houses and community
houses, moving picture centers, fish hatcheries for
the purpose of keeping the lakes and streams in
(Continued or; page 587)

‘—

L- .

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Sew-ice

 

 

With the “glorious prospect of a little leisure” ahead
the farmer may enjoy more fully sports such as this.

The Government and Rural Life

URAL recreation is fast taking its place as
a vital part of the agricultural extension

program of the. United States. It is being

promoted both for the joy it brings each indivi-
dual soul who takes part in it and for its value

as a seasoner of the more serious part of the

extension program.

help bring men and women,
boys and girls, age and youth,
together in social enjoyment
and physical and mind stimu-
lating activity.

Entered into at the outset
somewhat timidly, we have
grown bolder as the work has
developed, and we have seen

the strengthening effect of rec— .

reation on the more serious
part of our teaching program
in promoting good fellowship,
faith in each other, a commu-
nity and cooperative spirit, and
an ambition on the part of the
individual to take part and to
contribute and to help.

It is finding expression
through games, pageants, plays, through camps,
vesper services, tours, achievement days, picnics,
sings, folk dancing, and all the various ways that

In May, I927. the National Recrea-
tion Association assigned a full time
tield secretary to work with the United
States Department of Agriculture in
conducting recreation training insti-
tutes tor State extension workers.
county agents. boys' and girls' club
leadersl home demonstration agents.
leaders of Farm Bureaus, granges and
other rural groups. For the past two
years three workers have been as-
signed by the Associationl two at
whom devoted their entire time to
training workers in game leading and
social recreation activities, while the
third stressed instruction in drama.
Through December. I930, a total of
22.7l0 rural leaders attended the 323
institutes conducted by the Associa-
tion's workers in 39 states.

By C. B. Smith, D.Sc.

Chief, Extension Service

United States Department of Agriculture

We are still feeling our way in the recreation
field, but thanks to the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, which has furnished us much guidance

and given our field forces
needed leadership, we are try-
ing to see mere clearly the
plan and the purpose of recre-
ation in life, and we know
that we want more of it in our
extension work with rural peo-
ple, and rural people want
more of it in their lives.

But first may I give you a
picture of our extension or—
ganization through which we
are promoting recreation in
rural United States. We have
about 3,000 rural counties in
the United States with around
4,500 men and women exten-
sion agents employed jointly

547

548

by the county, State, and Federal government,
living and working in 2,500 of these counties.
These are, for the most part, farm raised, college
trained men and women who know the technique
of agriculture and home-making and who are in
sympathy with rural life and want to bring into
it efEciency, profit, joy, self-expression, culture,
wholesomeness and abundant living. This group
of 4,500 men and women county extension agents
touch the thinking and impress their message on
approximately 20,000,000 rural people annually.
They have actually taken on as volunteer helpers
unpaid or local leaders, as we call them, 320.000
men and women. Be-
sides work with adults
there are around 60,000
boys’ and girls’ clubs
with as many leaders,
and over 850,000 rural
club members, ranging
from 10 to 20 years of
age.
It is our ambition
that the program of
every rural group meet-
ing either of m en,
women, or youth, or all  ,
combined, shall be
made up of at least
three parts song, play
and instruction, and we
are working as fast as
we can to this end. The

“I
a:- "‘4-

'

,0

 

M

THE GOVERNMENT AND RURAL LIFE

\Ve want every extension agent in the whole
extension system not only to be able to lead any
rural group in which they find themselves any-
where in wholesome recreation, but also to be
able to teach unpaid local leaders in the county
how to reinforce their extension work with rec-
reation, song, plays and pageantry.

More Leisure for the Farmer

As we see the matter, recreation is to play and
must play a much larger part in future rural life
and all life than ever before. Considering only
the rural aspect of the matter, we have this situ-
ation:

Because of the in-
creased use of the farm
tractor in the United
States and the larger
machinery that g o e s
with it; because of the
use of selected seed and
higher yielding varie-
ties, the use of high
grade fertilizers, better
farm management and
farm organization, the
use of sprays to control
insects and diseases, the
use of better sanitary
._!' * ‘ methods in the growing

' of poultry and live-
stock, the farmers of
the United States are

main obstacle to the at-
tainment of this end is

Courtesy U. .9. Forest Service

Opportunities for recreation through camping are
being provided rUral people through the Government.

easily producing all the
food and fiber the na-

the lack of recreation

teachers to train our extension specialists and the
320,000 local leaders, helping them in carrying
on extension w'ork.

Herein has been the great contribution to our
extension work of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation in that they have furnished us the full time
of men like John Bradford, W. P. Jackson, and
Stuart Knapp, who have not simply taught us to
play but have given us the philosophy of recrea-
tion and taught our extension agents and local
leaders so that they in turn have been able to
give the instruction and demonstrations to others.

Our objective now is to have one or more full
time,recreation leaders in every State located at
the agricultural college headquarters of our ex-
tension work in the State so that there will be
someone to carry the work on with the county
agents and county local leaders the year round.

tion needs and more,
and whenever the farmer produces just a little
more than the nation actually needs he is penal-
ized by the public by greatly reduced prices and
loss of income.

The big task before us then in the United
States is not so much the growing of more crops
and stock products as it is to grow each year
about what the nation needs. This means that
for the first time in a thousand years the farmer
and his family need not toil in the field from
before sun up until after sunset, but may shorten
his work day and even perhaps shorten his work
week and still produce all the nation needs.

In this gradually developing situation the
farmer and his family have the glorious prospect
of a little leisure before them. Now this leisure
may be very wholesome and lead to more educa-
tion, more social and recreational life, more cul-

THE GOVERNMENT AND RURAL LIFE 549

tural life and abundant living if rightly used, or
more leisure may mean simply more idleness, and
we are told that Satan always iinds something
for idle hands to do. It would be good for the
soul of the rural family in the United States if a
portion of the prospective leisure time coming to
them could find expression in song, recreation,
plays, and the fine social enjoyment that goes with
these wholesome matters of life.

A larger educational life, social life, and rec-
reational life is, in my judgment, coming to the
farm people of both the United States and Can-
ada, and it is not too soon for forward-looking
men and women in both countries to be preparing
to meet it, both through legis-

that seek to develop the best' there is in man.

Now, may I give you a paragraph on some of
the statistics of our extension work in the United
States. Our 6,100 employed extension agents
give about 5 per cent of their time to various
phases of community activities, including recrea-
tion. In 1930, our extension forces sponsored
860 farm women’s camps of 2 to 6 days each,
where farm women were relieved of all household
tasks, took setting-up exercises, played games,
rested, held vesper services, got acquainted with
new people, were given instruction in various
subjects, and refreshed their souls. Sixty-four
thousand farm women attended these camps. We

held nearly 3,000 camps for

lation and the training of men
-and women to give help in
these helds. It is a needed
public teaching work.

Training for
Leisure Essential

In the vocational schools
and high schools of the United
States, wherever agriculture
and home-making are taught,
we should have systematic in-
struction given in the philos—
ophy and art of recreation.
All educational forces who
deal with rural people should
know the place of recreation
in rural life and be prepared
through their work to further
its development, and this rec-
reation may well include
something of the spiirtual in
life. I was a witness lately to

Secretary Arthur M. Hyde in a re-
cent address stated that our agricul-
tural plant is already too large. This
nation has incomparable resources in
land, labor, and capital. The rate of
increase of our population is rapidly
declining. Secretary Hyde believes
that within a generation our popula-
tion will reach a stationary figure of
l50.000,000: perhaps a little more,
but quite possibly less. Secretary
Hyde speaks of retirement from cul-
tivation of lands which the pioneer
subdued. but which stubbornly refuse
to yield to his grandchildren a reason-
able standard of living.

At this time when a considerable
percentage of our farm land is not
needed for the production of cropsI it
is most important that those who are
concerned for the life of the American
people shall think in terms of conser-
vation. in terms of national. state.
county, and local forests and recrea-

tion grounds.——"United States Daily,”
October 22. I93 I.

our junior 4-H club members,
attended by about 227,000
rural boys and girls. Some
450 community club houses
and permanent camps were
built, and the records indicate
that nearly 9,000 rural com-
munities developed recreation
work, music, and games, yells

and contests are a part of each

one of the 60,000 boys’ and
girls’ 4-H clubs. These clubs
are made up of 10—15 boys and
girls. They meet on an aver-
age of 8 to 12 times each year,
and song, games and social
life are a part of each meeting.

Through the assistance of
Messrs. Bradford, jackson,
and Knapp, of the National
Recreation Association, over
5,000 volunteer rural leaders
were given this past year 1 to

the cultural and soul value of one of our vesper
services, conducted at camps by our rural Boys’
and Girls’ 4-H clubs. This is an element in rec-
reation fast coming into our young people’s club
work. To sit on a hillt0p with others in silence
and meditation as the sun goes down and the
shadows lengthen, to think together on things
clean and worthy, to direct the mind away from
material to more spiritual things, to commune
with the soul all are cultural things that help lift
the mind up into the realm of the Creator and
constitute a steadying influence in the midst of a
very busy and changing world, that is worth while,
and is increasingly a part of our Boys’ and Girls’
Club program. Recreation, to our mind, may
well include something of these spiritual matters

4 days’ instruction in recreational leadership, in-
cluding community singing, dramatics, music
appreciation, group games and folk dancing, story
telling and rural community center organization
and program work. The annual reports of the
6,100 extension agents that come into our office
are full of references to the recreational work
they are doing, and to the fine help they have been
getting from the men furnished by the National
Recreation Association.

I have here excerpts from the annual reports
of our extension agents, showing some of the
particular things they have done in the way of
community activities, pageants and plays, com-
munity buildings, parks-and playgrounds, music

(Continued on page 588)

Recreation

In

Canadian Schools

By A. S. Lamb, MD.

Director of the Department of Physical Education
McGill University, Montreal

NE of the easiest ways of getting into
0 trouble is to make broad generalizations,
and yet I see no other way of dealing with
this problem of recreation in our schools than by
making generalizations. In my journeyings across
our Dominion, and through contacts with teachers
and pupils from all Provinces, I have gathered
certain impressions and certain facts which must
necessarily form the basis of my observations.

There appear to be four important factors
which are influencing recreation in our Canadian
schools. First, we are suffering from an inherit-
ance of “systems” and 'military formalism. That
is generalization number one for which I shall
probably get into trouble. Many of our teachers of
physical education are either the direct or indirect
products of our English schools and, for the most
part, have the traditional conception of physical
“training” or “culture” which is very formal. I
don’t say that that training is being given at the
present time in England, but we have inherited
the “system” from our Mother Country. The
conception in many cases is one of physical train—
ing and physical “jerks” of the “I yell and you
jump” type of response.

This has an effect that is very important, but
on which I cannot spend too much time except to
say that there is in Canada today what is known as
the Strathcona Trust Fund, yielding $20,000 per
year, administered by the Department of National
Defense. It is intimately associated with cadet
training and last year in our normal schools over
5,000 teachers were instructed in physical educa-
tion by district cadet officers. Those people go

550

 

Courtesy Vancouver, B. C., Park System

The school children of Canada have a
rich background for out-of-door sports.

out. of course, and spread that same gospel, and
this we feel is a distinct handicap to the program
in our schools. There is no proper understand-
ing of the objectives, the educational aims, and
that to me is a most unfortunate situation which
we Canadians must take to heart and try to cor-
rect. Under the same administration last year,
136,000 cadets were trained, nearly 65,000 of
them in the Province of Quebec. I think that is
a diliiculty. Thus recreation in our Canadian
schools is laboring under the handicap of formal-
ism and military discipline.

The second important factor, although it may
seem paradoxical, also comes to us from our
Mother Country. The powerful tradition of
“playing the game for the game’s sake” is more.
than a by-word, for fortunately it plays a most
important part in all the recreative activities of
our schools. To say, “It isn’t cricket,” has a wealth
of meaning, something fully comprehended by
our boys and girls, and yet many of them have
never played cricket and might not know a bat
from a wicket. It is a tradition which, I believe,
has a very great influence upon their reactions
toward their fellows.

That there is an unwritten code of sportsman-

RECREATION IN CANADIAN SCHOOLS 551

ship—that hackneyed word—is illustrated by an
intercollegiate cross country race held several
years ago, in which Runner A was leading by
about fifty yards while B, from a rival university,
was next in line. Competition was very keen.
They came to a turn in the road, Runner A taking
the turn correctly to his home course, Runner B
taking the wrong turn. A noticed it and stopped.
called to Runner B, waited until he resumed the
same relative position he had before he made the
wrong turn, and then continued the race. Runner
A lost the race but won the undying admiration of
his fellows.

Dr. Savage in his Carnegie Report No. 18.
“Games and Sports in British Schools and Uni-
versities,” a thorough study, makes the comment:
“This tradition of English sportsmanship taught
by the masters and carried on to each succeeding
generation, is a powerful moral force, as much a
heritage of American sport as the English lan-
guage and the English Common Law are other
heritages of our national life.”

Sir Henry N ewbolt expresses it:

“The sand of the desert is
sodden red, ’
Red with the wreck of a
square that broke;
The Gatling’s jammed and
the Colonel dead,
And the regiment blind
with dust and smoke.
The river of death has
brimmed his banks
And England’s far and
Honor a name,
But the voice of a school-
boy rallies the ranks,
‘Play up! Play up! and
The third factor, one for condudor'
which we are everlastineg
grateful, comes to us from the United States, and
primarily from this Association and its illustrious
President, and it is this: The scientific approach
which has been made to the whole field of recrea-
tion and physical education, the important and
far-reaching researches and studies which have
been conducted, have given us a philosophy of
recreation which enables us to go on with inspira-
tion and enthusiasm which we could not possibly
have without it. I wish to pay my tribute on be-
half of the youth of Canada who are reaping the
benefits of the work of this Association.

The fourth factor also comes to us from below

It was a rare privilege which the Congress
enjoyed in hearing the Mendelssohn Choir
of Toronto. composed of about 240 voices.
which gave a most beautiful concert for the
delegates. The Choir sang two Motets: C. H.
H. Parry's I'There Is an Old Belief": Harry
Purcell's "Nymphs and Shepherds"; Brahms'
Op. 62: No. 5—"Dear Canst Thou Tell": J. F.
Bridge's "Bold Turpin"; the Cachucha from
the "Gondoliers." and in closing the concert.
Parry's beautiful "Jerusalem."

The Choir. which is well known not only in
Canada. but in the United States. where it
has sung in many large cities. was founded in
l894 by the late Dr. A. S. Vogt. who served
as director until I? | 7. when he resigned. His
play the game y ” successor was Dr. H. A. Fricker. the present

the boundary line and, really, we are sorry you
didn’t keep it there. Organization of recreation
is essential, supervision is necessary, competition
is wise, but highly organized, mechanized, com-
mercialized competition seems to us to be very un-
necessary and very unwise. The problems in-
volved are, I am sure, quite familiar to all of us,
and we sintCanada are being caused no little con-
cern in maintaining what we consider to be the
right habits and attitudes of our children.

The problems we have to face are precisely, or
generally, the same as the problems of the school
child in any country. There may be monopolies
of all kinds, but there are none in health and rec-
reation. The value of the dollar may fluctuate,
the gold standard may come and go, as you well
know, but the values of recreation remain constant
and its gold standard will always be the desirable
citizen of the future. There are no national boun-
daries; recreation has its universal appeal regard-
less of race, creed and color. The children’s
charter of the White House Conference is equally
applicable in Canada, the United States, or Eng-

land.

We perhaps are some-
what more casual about our
recreation in that we do not
work so hard at our games;
we try to take the work
from them. There is not so
much specialization, nor is
there such intensive com-
petition. We do not meas-
ure things with the same
precision and exactness. We
do not know so much about
tabulations, p e r c e ntages,
means, correlations, and We
are not so much inspired by
complex classifications, mo-
tivations and integrations.

We have, in Canada, a tradition among our
teachers referred to by Sir John Adams as
“teachers by the Grace of God,” teachers who
have a traditional belief; teachers who believe
that their knowledge of Latin is something with
which to be more satisfied than their knowledge of
Jimmy to whom they teach it. There is still a
battle in Canada between the academics and the
pedagogics. In the professional field we have far
too many monkeys. The training of our teachers
we hope will improve, but until it does the toler-
ation of the academic teachers will not change.

(Continued on page 588)

 

Photo by F. Gowen, Vancouver, B. C.

Stanley Park In Vancouver, Canada, containing
a thousand acres, Is an area of rare beauty.

n l

u
,_

HE city in which this Congress is held is
T the second city in Canada. Montreal, with
a larger population, was incorporated two
years earlier than Toronto, which will celebrate
its centenary in 1934. Montreal, however, was
founded on a much older settlement of almost en—
tirely French people, and the early plans of the
city do not indicate any appreciation of the need
to reserve areas of land for recreational purposes.
The Town of York, which preceded by only a
few years the City of Toronto, in its earliest plan
showed the reservation of two large squares for
public purposes, though these were later used as
sites for educational and administrative purposes
and are not today in the public domain. A plan
of the city soon after incorporation shows two
other squares for public use and both remain to
the present day as public parks. This plan also
shows that it was intended to reserve the water
front on the north shore of the harbor as a prom-
enade and pleasure, ground. This land was, how-

552

Planning and Recreation

in Canada

By A. G. DaIzeII, M.E.I.C.

President Town Planning Institute

The future of recreation in
the communities of Canada is

bound up with city planning.

ever, alienated in later years, though most
of it has had to be repurchased to carry
out harbor improvements. A plan of the
city dated 1842 shows the influence of Brit-
ish, and particularly English, settlement because
it indicates that a large area of land immediately
south and west of the present Queen’s Park was
used as a St. Leger race courset and cricket
ground.

In 1843 the first races associated with the To-
ronto Hunt Club were run at Lansing, seven miles
north of the city, and ever since the club has been
a distinct feature of the social and recreational
life of the citizens of Toronto. Probably the same
lovers of horses were responsible for the estab-
lishment of race courses in the city. Two exist
at the present time within the city limits, two
immediately adjacent to the city, and the race for
the King’s Plate is one of the social functions of
the year. Though race courses involve .the use
of large areas of land, their presence within a city
has not involved the planning problems that cem-
eteries have created.

In later years Toronto has been fortunate in
securing large areas of land for park purposes,
the gifts of private citizens, and there are two
such donated parks outside the city limits.

The City of Winnipeg, which only recently gave

way to the City of Van-
couver as the third city
in Canada, was founded
in 1876, also on a settle-
ment made by French
Canadians. Its plan has
been in part influenced
by the subdivision of
land into river lots, but
before the city was in—
corporated in 1876 the
Dominion government
had adopted for the pur-
pose of land settlement,
the plan then in use in
the United States, sub-
dividing land into rec-
tangular townships. The
section of one square
mile and the quarter sec-
tion of 160 acres, with
the road allowances per-
taining thereto, have had
a dominating influence

on the plan of the City '

of Winnipeg and all
prairie cities. This in-
flu en ce has extended

TOWN PLANNING IN CANADA

One of the delightful expressions of the hos-
pitality of our Canadian hosts at the Toronto Rec-
reation Congress was the presentation to Joseph
Lee of a gavel made from Canadian maple with
an inscription plate of Canadian silver. W. 6.
Watson. Honorary Chairman. in making the pres-
entation on behalf of the Local Arrangements
Committee. said:

"Whenever one finds a worth while movement
that is making headway. there is invariably an out-
standing personality whose courage. faith and

leadership have made it possible. When we think
of the National Recreation Association our minds
instinctively turn to Joseph Lee. the president of
the Association and the spiritual father of the
recreation movement in America. . . . It is com-
paratively easy. under the impulse of a moment.
to do a bright and shining thing. It is infinitely
harder. more worth while. to relate one's self in a
definite fashion to some outstanding enterprise.
and. as Mr. Lee has done in the case of the .Asso-
ciation. to continue with fixed purpose. faith and
courage. enthusiastically to invest one's time and
money year after year throughout many years.
"Mr. Lee. I have been asked to present you with
a simple token of our esteem for you and our
appreciation of the patient. persistent and intelli-
gent manner in which you have through the years
addressed yourself to the great task of developing
in the public conscience an ever-larger interest in
the proper use of leisure in the life of the people.''

553

making have been syste-
matically and honestly
encouraged. We have
had land policies, of
course, land speculating
policies, .land selling poli-
cies, town site policies.
Land has been regarded
as a pawn in the commer-
cial game, never as the
real basis of our growth
and prosperity.”

The policy of subdi-
vision of land for urban
use in great parts of
Canada has been to sell
the greatest amount of
land to the greatest num-
ber of people at the
greatest possible price.
The effect on the use' of
land for public recrea-
tion can be 'shown by
stating that it has cost
the citizens of Van-
couver more to secure
eight acres of land for
small recreation grounds,

even into British Columbia, where the system of
surveys by townships does not prevail, and the
City of Vancouver has a plan corresponding in
many ways to a prairie city, though not so con-
sistently uniform.

Unfortunately, in all the plans of towns and
cities of western Canada the provision of land for
public purposes and particularly for recreation
was not given consideration, notwithstanding the
early example set by Toronto. Vancouver owes
its incomparable Stanley Park of 1,000 acres not
to the appreciation of land for such a purpose, but
because it was reserved for naval and military
purposes.

In an issue of September 20th last, the Van-
couver Province, usually regarded as the leading
and most moderate paper iniBritish Columbia, had
an editorial on “The Land and the People.” In
this editorial, mainly directed toward the diffi-
culty of placing land—hungry people on small hold-
ings, the writer says:

“What is the difficulty? Why, that British
Columbia is not really interested in land settle-
ment, has no land settlement policy and never
had. We have been a province of exploitation,
never a province in which settlement and home-

from land which less than fifty years ago was
sold by the Crown at one dollar an acre, than it
cost the citizens of London, the capital of the
Empire, to purchase eighty acres of land within
the five mile zone, from land which was alienated
from the Crown more than three hundred years
ago.

The land policies of the past served their pur-
pose very effectively, but that purpose was not
community welfare. The ultimate effect is shown
by the fact that in British Columbia the govern-
ment is in possession of nearly three million acres
for non-payment of taxes, and that some prairie
cities have also one-third of the land within muni-
cipal limits confiscated for the same reason. There
is, however, this saving feature, that the opportu-
nity is now presented to adopt entirely new poli-
cies, and that by means of public education such
as this Congress affords the people may come to
see that public welfare depends on the proper use
of land, and that one such use is for adequate
space for healthy recreation.

Scientific city planning will facilitate recreation
because it will prevent the waste of land in un-
necessary streets and street development, and the

(Continued on page 589)

Industrial Recreation in Canada

By W. H. Kilby

Director of Recreation
Canadian National Railways

There is very keen interest in
Canada in the responsibility of

industry for workers' recreation.

IN CE the beginning of'
S time the pursuit of happi-

ness has been the moti-
vating force of human life.
Whether stich happiness has

been fomid in productive work .

or in the expression of individ-
ualism in leisure bears Upon our
consideration as we reach a
stage in the world’s progress
when the relation of time—usu-
ally expressed as “work time”
—has decreased against that
time usually expressed as our
own or “leisure time.” The
variety of human desires ob-

One of the social occasions
greatly enioyed by the Congress
delegates was the dance following
one of the evening meetings. Much
of the success of the dance was due
to the fine qualityl of the music pro-
vided by an orc estra of employ-
ees from the T. Eaton Company.
Limited.

Delegates to the Congress were
further indebted to Eaton Com-
pany tor a demonstration. "The
Spirit of Recreation." effectively

presented by members of the
Eaton Girls' Club and of the Young

Men's Club. The story. its lighting
and staging. the music and the cos-

tumes were all arranged by mem-
bers of the clubs.

his early stages depended for
mere existence on the keenness
of his eye and the strength of
his muscles. Through the ages
physical exercise, expressed in
the terms of athletics, has occu-
pied a prominent place, and it is
noteworthy that the nations
which have risen to greatness
have been those nations which
have given consideration to the
development of the body as well
as the mind.

Industry will be successful
only to the degree that more

viously precludes any standardi-
zation of play or leisure time, occupation or effort.

It has been made very obvious that the finan-
cial reward for effort can be an excessive consid-
eration. It is also evident that the involved finan-
cial structure we have built has failed in its pur-
pose—the creation of human happiness. It would
seem that we have paid too much attention to mak-
ing livings and not enough to making lives.

The necessity for making livings has brought
into being excessive competition and an evidence
to win at any cost. Such competition, together
with the lack of physical exercise for those en-
gaged in it, has produced a nervous condition in
people without a physical condition to maintain

properly human existence. These conditions have
been evidenced in a desire for emotional entertain-

ment rather than for individual participation in
physical play. In this connection we must not

forget that man is first a physical animal, and in
554

study is given to the human

element, and while medical
clinics for the repairing of physical ailments are
altogether excellent, little provision has been
made for the relieving of the troubles of the
mind.

An attempt has been made to ascertain the
extent of adult employee recreation among the
leading industries of Canada. This has revealed
striking and encouraging figures, but it has also
generally shown a lack of coordination or liaison
as between industries and as between other rec-
reational authorities. According to our survey,
industry, due perhaps to its variety, has no defined
general policy either as to financial provision for
employee recreation or for its administration. The
recreation policy is usually dependent on the
vision, generosity and play consciousness of the
industrial executives. That they have been alive
to the value of the effort is shown in the results.
Out of 150 industries reporting, 88.6 per cent

INDUSTRIAL RECREATION IN CANADA 555

were sponsoring recreation programs and only
11.4 per cent indicated no interest. In nearly all
cases a desire was expressed for information and
guidance.

Thus it would seem that industry has volun-
tarily assumed an obligation, but whether this
has always been as a result of vision or necessity
is not clearly defined. Because mechanized indus-
try is taking from its human factor the physical
exercise necessary for the man’s well-being it
does perhaps owe to its workers assistance in
providing for constructive leisure. I suggest that
in order to maintain a proper standard of human
efficiency, industry owes to itself and to the nation
an active interest in the leisure time occupations
of 'its workers. With the prospect of this leisure
time being greatly increased, there is the proba-
bility that skilled craftsmanship will rapidly de-
teriorate and be almost lost unless provision is
made for the education of pe0p1e to occupy profit-
ably a period of their leisure time in useful work.
This work leisure period would seem a field of
endeavor for industry to undertake.

There is, too, h0me,’ community and travel
leisure, which, together with work leisure, may be
described as a full time leisure period. It must
be borne in mind that industrial workers form
the mass of Canadian citizens and are members
of communities, and as such naturally seek leisure
occupation in the neighborhood where they reside.
This would indicate the need of closer ties be-
tween industrial and community effort. Industry
from its experience in the leisure time occupation
field is in a position to offer a concrete suggestion
along the following lines:

The industries are appreciative of the impor-
tance of the value of any contributions to the art
and science of the better use of leisure which di-
rectly affects their staff as workers, home-makers
and citizens. Any opportunity, such as this con-
ference offers, of obtaining from a single great
modern nation a presentation of the various move-
ments, methods and experiments in this field, be-
sides being an international event of much impor-
tance, permits of clearer defining of the national
problems.

In times of world-wide difficulties when full
national efforts are everywhere being rallied, we
Canadians are not slow in fully appreciating the
national aspects of a problem which is assuming
an immediate and ever growing importance in in-
dividual happiness and national life. We live at
the threshold of an era where the relation of
leisure to work becomes of increasing interest to

those who are responsible for planning and guid-
ing the development of national character and
growth, economy and government. Every neigh-
borhood and’ community, as well as every
group,.association and industry, looks for vision,
leadership and guidance from those who com-
prise thenconsulting and advisory sections, and
above all, the organized research and planning
elements of a national association. Only a na-
tional federation, union or association can tackle
these pressing problems with any hope of real
or practical success. If a National Canadian Rec-
reation Association should deve10p, it is to be
hOped that early and intensive attention be paid
to the study of the following problems and that
cooperative Dominion—wide research be'organized
for the purpose:

An authoritative statement of national, re-
gional and local needs in respect to leisure organi-
zation, equipment and training; the best and
widest use of available leisure and recreational
facilities and the c00perative and self-help pro-
vision of supplementary opportunities; the best
methods of creating continuous survey, research
and planning machinery; the minimum of liaison
machinery and the education and training of the
voluntary and professional organizers, tutors and
administrators. This is necessary so that our
major problems in this field are tackled with
vision, but also with due regard to the necessity
for immediate practical returns for such efforts.

The accomplishments of recent years in the
United States, Great Britain and Canada in the
development of a more general provision of op-
portunity for extracting greater happiness from
the leisure part of life and developing more varied
interests in it, have not been without their steady-
ing influences in community and national life or
work. But we have yet, among other things, to
explore more deliberately the character-building
and conserving, as well as the multiple-skill-pro-
ducing opportunities of leisure time in the field of
increased leisure.

The widespread and increasing attention which
is being paid to decreasing working days and
working hours is not without its warnings, which
may suggest national responsibilities in respect to
educational preparation for a better use of leisure,
whether adolescent or adult, with its influence on
happier work and happier home life. Dominion-
wide cooperation of all educational, recreational
and welfare organizations would seem essential.
Is this a challenge to industry? Or is it a chal-
lenge from industry to community and nation?

Courtesy of "Leisure and Education in Germany”

 

Antiquity serves youth as some of Germany’s proudest
old castles are turned into shelters for the Wanderers.

The Youth Movement

By Ben Solomon
Editor, Camp Life

semi-private organizations that claim mem-

bership in the Youth Movement. Each in-
dividual carries a membership card in one of a
long list of organizations, school children alone
being exempt from. this rule. It is a most diffi-
cult thing to separate these organizations into
types, classes or like interest groups because there
is very much overlapping and interlocking of gen-
eral and specific aims. Furthermore, one meets
with great difficulty in making accurate English

LET us consider here the types of private and

translations of German terms and definitions.-

Nine general groups including one hundred and
three organizations are members of the Federa-

556

in Germany

tion of German Youth Associations (Reichsaus-
schuss Der Deutschen Jugendverbande), a semi-
private agency organized in 1926, which receives
financial help from the Ministry of the Interior.
To belong to this Federation an organization must
have at least fifty local groups and one thousand
members.

Most of the membership figures are given here
but some were unobtainable. Where a suitable
English translation cannot be made the German
name is used. Many of these organizations main—
tain year—round programs including club work
through the winter months and camps in the sum-
mer, and some have leaders’ training courses.

THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY 557

I. Group of Evangelical Youth
Movement Associations

Unmarried boys . . . . . 228,000
Unmarried girls . . . . ..500,000
Total membership . . . .728,000

1. Association of Youth Clubs of
the Free Evangelical Congrega-
tions, Inc. (Sectarian, non-con-
formists. There is an adult move-
ment with the same aims.)

2. Association of German Bible
Groups

3. Association of German Youth
Clubs, Inc. (Probably the Youth
Clubs Afiiliated with Protestant
Church in .Germany)

4. Association of Evangelical-
Lutheran Maiden Clubs in Prussia,
Inc. (Connected with Protestant
Church. Christian and high moral
ideals of living)

5. Christ- German Associations
(“to combine Christlike living with
Germanic ideals”)

In the November issue of "Recrea-
tion" there appeared the first install-
ment of Mr. Solomon’s interesting
study of the Youth Movement in Ger-
many. In this introductory statement
Mr. Solomon told of the early history
of the movement. the changes in ob-
iectives. and the introduction of cer-
tain elements affecting the present
situation. In this issue Mr. Solomon
tells of the types of organizations com-
posing the movement. and their mem-

ershi , and describes the Youth
Hostel: and their 0 eration. It is a
fascinating story toid by one who.
over a period of years. has studied the
literature of the movement and who
recently has had first-hand contacts
with the groups. sharing in their
activities.

2. Youth Division of the Cath-
olic Woman’s Association

3. Association of the Catholic
Students Clubs of Germany

4. New-Germany Association of
Catholic Pupils of High School
and Junior College

5. Association of the Catholic
Young Men’s Clubs of Bavaria

6. Association of the Catholic
Youth’s and Young Men’s Clubs of
Germany

7. Association of Catholic Fe-
male Youth Clubs of South Ger-
many

8. Central Association of the
Catholic Maiden’s Clubs of Ger-
many.

To these should be added fifty t0
seventy-five smaller religious or-
ganizations of all faiths. Their
membership brings the whole relig-
ious groupings up to two and a
half million. Religious training is a
definite part of their youth pro-

6. German Christian Students’
Association (University students of
decided Christian ideals, who belong to special Bible
groups and express their Christianity by membership in
that association)

7. German Evangelical Workers Youth (May be either
connected with the Protestant Church or with the Chris-
tian Socialists—a free religious movement partly inside,
partly outside the Church)

8. German Association of Girls’ Bible Groups (Ages
probably fourteen to sixteen—confirmation age in Ger-
many) '

9. German Federation of the Youth Associations for
Decided Christianity. (Wear a badge, go to prayer meet-
ings, bible classes, believe in verbal inspiration of the
Bible and in miracles. and show their Christianity by pro-
moting belief in Jesus)

10. German-Evangelical Association of Social Youth
Groups (Do social work along Christian and patriotic
lines. Probably connected with Church)

11. Federal Evangelical Association of Female Youth
(Connected with Protestant Church, patriotic part of
adult movement)

12. Youth Association of the Methodist Church of Ger-
many (Part of adult movement)

13. Youth Association of the German Baptist Congre-
gations (Part of adult movement)

14. Youth Association of the Evangelical Congregation
in Germany (Sectarian; more pietistic than Protestant
Church, somewhat like No. 9. Part of adult movement)

15. Lutheran Youth Association (Probably connected
with Lutheran Church)

16. New Land Association for the Study of New Land
Groups (Part of adult movement. Aim to open “new
land” to Christ study, bible and Christian living)

17. Federal Youth Division of the German Associations
of Blue-Cross-Leagues of the Evangelical Church (Part
of adult movement. Anti-saloon and anti-alcohol associ-
ation. Adult movement does social work in reeducating
addicts. Youth group concerned only with the ideal of
abstemious living)

18. Federal Association of the German Advent Youth
(Part of adult movement. Sectarian like Latter-Day
Saints)

19. Federal Association of Pupils’ Bible Groups (High
school age; perhaps children also)

20. Star-League (Youth organization like Nos. 9, 14
and 16. Are “stars” because of their Christian virtue and

piety)
II. Group of Catholic Associations

Unmarried boys . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282,000
Unmarried girls . . . . . . . . . . . .. 750,000
Total Membership . . . . . . . . . . .1,032,000

1. Pan-German Youth (Patriotic)

grams throughout the year and in
their summer camps.

III. Group of Socialistic Associations

600,000, generally with, and sometimes without
party afliliations. Political education in socialist party
principles definitely form part of the year-round and
summer camp programs. Furthermore, 200,000 children
between eight and fifteen years have been formed into
the Red Falcon Association under the leadership of a
Socialist party chief. They maintain summer camps and
a definite program of Socialist party education for these
children.

1. Association of Free Socialistic Youth (Not party
bound)

2. Youth Division of the General German Workers
Union League (Part of party organization)

3. Group of Young Members and Friends of the Asso-
ciation of Technical Assistants and Technical Civil
Service Emp10yees (Part of adult organization. Com-
prises lower hospital, laboratory, factory, research-labora-
tory-workers. ,Also in America, known as Techni-
cians. Not party bound)

4. Federal Youth Division of the Central—or National
League in American usage—of Employees (Part of adult
organization. Not party bound)

5. Federal Central Organization of the Youth Groups
of the Hiking Association (“Friends of Nature”)

6. Association of the Socialistic Workers Youth of
Germany (Party bound)

IV. Group of Autonomous Youth Groups

Have retained the original idea of a movement of youth
for youth. Exceedingly difiicult to give these figures as
they interlock with political and religious groups. The
“Neutral” Wandervogel, Nature Friends, F ree-YOuth
groups without any party affiliations do not number more
than 25,000 members. Here are found some special aims
such as Abolition of War (Pacificism), total abstinence,
political, economic and social reforms, etc. These associa-
tions are directly or indirectly the outgrowth of outdoors,
freedom-loving groups and are similar to the pre-war
Wandervogel. Here also are included the nature loving,
outdoor branches of some church and political organ-
izations.

1. Eagles and Falcons, German Young Hikers (Youth-
ful outdoor and recreation movement with social forms
and standards. Youth leadership)

2. Association Artam, Inc.

3. Association of the National Pathfinders, Inc. (Like
Boy Scouts. Adult leadership and control)

4. Association of Wander Birds and Pathfinders (mix-
ture of N05. 1, 2 and 3 but without adult control)

5. Association of German Girl Pathfinders, Inc. (Girl
Scouts)

6. Association Ekkehard, Inc. (Probably romantic—

mythical ideals and social forms; patriotic)

558 THE YOU TH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

7. German Academical Guild (Organization of Uni-
versity students of free youth movement tradition)

8. German Free \Vander Band (Outdoors, recreation,
nature lovers. _ Their own social forms and standards.
Youth leadership)

9. German Pathfinder Association (Outdoor, hiking.
woodcraft. Adult leadership and control)

10. German Republican Pathfinder Association (Same
as No. 9 but with definite acceptance of Germany’s
Republican form of government and a democratic ideal
of citizenship. Adult leadership, mixed juvenile and adult
control)

11. Journeymen in the German National Commercial
Clerkship Association (Romantic name for outdoor recre-
ation, hiking, clubs; own social forms and standards but
definite nationalistic patriotism as indicated by words
“German National,” signify aflinity to the German-
National People’s Party—conservative. Not party bound,
but adult control with partial youth leadership)

12. The Gousen
13. Hagal Association, Inc.

14. Well of Youth (Catholic abstemious \Vorkers
Youth Movement)

15. Young German Guild (Craftsmen guild reviving

craftsmanship—ideal, social and citizenship forms of the
old guilds)

16. Young-Cross-League (Catholic Youth Movement)

17. Young Storm

18. Young Wander-Birds (Either the younger mem-
bers in the original \i’andervogel-inovement-hikers—or a
renaissance effort
of the old move-
ment)

19. “Comrades,”
German - Jewish
\Vanderleague
(Hikers. Some of
the other nation-
alistic and pres-
ent patriotic
groups are anti-
semitic. Not,
though, the orig-
inal youth move-

ment groups)
20. C a t h o l i c

Wander-Birds

21. Crusaders
Wandering Cath-
olic People’s
Youth (Catholic
proletarian prob-
ably)

22. N e r 0 t h
\Vander-Birds

23. Quickborn
( R e f r e s h i n g
\V e l l ) Catholic
A b s t e m i o u 5

Youth Movement
(Church leader-

24. Knighthood
Bands of Q. 0.
G. T. (May be
pure romanticism,
may be aggres-
sive, militaristic
nationalism)

25. G e r m a n
Autonomous Boy-
hood League

26. Free - \Van-
der-Band of the
Young Nation
(May have pro-
gressive and radi-
cal political an d
p h i l o s o p h -
ical ideals)

In the "day rooms” of the shelters the
young travelers eat, read, and rest.

 

Caurtesy of “Leisure and Education in Germany”

27. Scharuborst (General of Germany’s \Var of Inde-
pendence against Napoleon 1.) League of German Young
Retainers, Inc. (Designation indicates patriotic ideals in
militaristic form.)

V. Group of Trade and Professional Associations

Figures .for this group also interlock and are difiicult
of separation. Be51des workers’ trade umons here are
also professnonal associations.

1. Association of the Business Youth in the German
National Commercial Clerkship Association (Part of
adult movement. Usual recreation clubs. Nationalistic
tendencies; some social work among members; not party
bound but close aflinity. Serves also insurance, business,
protection, and health objects.)

2. Youth Association of the German Trade Guilds
(Part of adult organization)

3. Youth Association in the Employees Trade Union
League (Covers higher business, commercial and admin-
istrative employees, like post-oflice clerks, bank tellers,
accountants, social workers. Usually not executives and
managers. Part of adult organization. Serves insurance,
business, protection, health and recreation objects. Adult
management)

4. Youth Association in the League of Catholic Busi-
ness Associations of Germany (Part of adult organiza-
tion. Same objects as Nos. 1 and 3. Catholic version.
Adult management)

5. Youth Groups of the National Organization of
Christian Trade Unions of Germany (Part of adult or-
ganization. Adult management; same objects as Nos. 1,

3 and 4. Only, Protestant anti-socialistic ver-
sion)

6. Youth Groups of the Association of Cath-

olic Female Business Employees and Admin-

istrative Officials

of Germany

(Same objects as
Nos. 1, 3, 4 and
5. Part of adult
organization; ad-
ult management)

7. Y o u t h
Groups of the As-
sociation of Fe-
male Commercial
and Ofiice Em-
ployees. Inc.
(Same objects as
Nos. 1, 3. 4. 5
and 6. Adult or-
ganization a n (1
management )

8. Youth Head-
quarters of the
General Associa-
tion of Insurance
B u r e a u E m -
ployees (Both
private and pub-
lic. Same objects
as Nos. 1, 3, 4,
S. 6 and 7. Adult
organization and
management)

9. Youth Asso-
ciation of Protes-
tant \Vorking
Girls (Probably
church affiliation)

10. C ath o l i c
Youth Associa-
tion of Germany’s
“forking Girls

11. Federal
Rural \Vorkers
Association

12. Federation
of Catholic Jour-
neymen’s Clubs

13. Child

THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY 559

Workers and Working Youth of the National Associa-
tion of Catholic Male and Female Workers Clubs of

Germany

VI. Group of Associatimts for Athletics and Gymimstics

Turn-Vereins, teams, gymnastics, athletics, and field
and track Sports claim 300,000 young men and women
and also 200,000 belong to the Soccer Associations, mak-
ing a total of 500,000 members (excluding some listed
in church and other groups). All adult management
and part of adult organizations.

1. German Youth Vigor, National Association for Ath-
letics and Gymnastics in Catholic Clubs (Adult manage-
ment)

2. Oaken Cross, Association for Athletics and Gymnas-
tics in the Protestant Young Men’s Clubs (“Strong as
the oak and Christian as the Cross”)

3. Youth Division of the Association of German
Cyclists, Inc. (Adult management)

4. Youth Divisions of the German Gymnasts

5. Youth Divisions of the German Athletics and Sports
Association of 1891

6. Youth Divisions of the German Ski-Association

7. Youth Committee of the German Football Associa-
tion

8. Youth Groups of the German Sports Bureau for
Field Athletics

9. Youth Groups of the General German Gymnasts’ As—
sociation

10. Youth Groups of the German Swimming Associa—
tion, Inc.

11. Young Concordia, German Cyclists and Motor
Cyclists Association, Inc.

12. Youth Divisions of the German Gymnasts’ Associa-
tion in the Federation of German States

13. Youth Groups of the Workers’ Gymnastics and
Athletics Association, Inc.

VII. Group of Pan-Germanism and Citizenship Associ-
ations

' Not necessarily affiliated with any party. General po-
litical education a factor here.

_1. Youth Groups of the League for Germans in For-
eign Countries Pan-Germanistic but not always aggres-
swe or imperialistic. Adult control and management)

2. Young Germany Association (Probably 100 per cent
Germans—“for a bigger and better Germany”)

3. Young Girls DivisiOn of the Queen Louise League,
Inc. (Old Prussian ideal of simplicity, service to the
country, loyalty to government, dutifulness, Christian life.
Patriotism, conservative but not aggressive. Adult con-
trol and management)

4. Kyifhauser Youth Asociation of the German Na-
tional Soldiers’ Association (“Kytfhauser”—-name refers
to saga of old Emperor Barbarosa. Romantic historical
patriotism. Adult control and management. Probably
aggressive; attitude of might, world mission and pre—
paredness)

5. Sailors’ Youth Association in the Association of
German Sailors’ Clubs, Inc.

6. Federal Council of Colonial Youth Associations

VIII. Group of Political Associations

Definitely connected with existing parties. Adult con-
trol. Party political education part of year-round and
summer camp programs.

1. Bismarck-Youth of the German National People’s
Party (Nationalistic-conservative somewhat imperialistic
and niiliaristic, aggressive)

2. Hindenburg-League, Youth Groups of the German
People’s Party (Conservative, Republican form of gov-
ernr)nent accepted. Romantic form of imperialistic patriot-
ism

3. Federal Association of German Windthorst Leagues.
(Windthorst was conservative leader at time of Emperor
Wilh)eln1 ]. and Bismarck. Probably agrarian conserva-
tives

IX. Miscellaneous Associations

All associations that cannot otherwise be grouped to—
gether.

1. Youth Association of the German Association for
National Living and Nature-Healing, Inc. (Vegetarians,
etc. Adult control)

2. Youth Division of the Salvation Army (Adult man-
agement and control)

3. National Association of German Democratic Youth.
(Old liberal traditions in democratic ideals of citizenship
and government for German Republic)

4. Federation of Jewish Youth Associations of Ger-
many (Adult control and management)

I 5. Federation of the Youth Associations of the VVomen’s
Red Cross Clubs

6. Federation of the Youth Groups of the German Red

Cross Workers and Male and Female Red Cross Nurses.

Of the 4,000,000 enrolled members, the figures available
to me and set down above account for slightly under
3,000,000. In the main and roughly the membership can
be thus divided:

Religious Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,500,000
Political Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 800,000
Sport, Games and Athletics . . . . . . . . . .. 500,000
Original Wandervogel, Naturfreunde

and Similar Organizations . . . . . . . . .. 25,000
Miscellaneous Organizations . . . . . . . . .. 175,000

Total 4,000,000

Of this huge number 150,000 carry leaders’ cards and
there are probably 1,500 separate groups, each belonging
to the 103 organizations previously listed in the nine like-
interest classifications.

The German Youth Hostels (Herbergen)

Cycling, hiking, sightseeing, “wandering”———to
use the term the Germans seem to prefer—
through the school vacation and holiday seasons,
during week-ends and overnight, by individuals
and by groups, almost from the beginning brought
with it many problems, the most important of
which was the lack of suitable sleeping places,
shelters for the night. In the early days the
wanderer would seek shelter in barns or farmers’
homes and in the cities with private families.
Sometimes they were allowed to use schoolhouses
and army barracks. Aggressive, richer groups in
a few instances built or found temporary, make-
shift Herbergen for their own members.

Away back, before 1909, a school teacher of
Altena, Westphalia, Richard Shirrman by name
and himself a group leader, proposed that school
houses in general be made available for shelter
purposes. Not only did his idea take hold, meet-
ing with instantaneous success, but he went fur-
ther and organized a one-man national organiza-
tion, the Federal Association of Shelter Houses
for German Youth, which concerned itself with
the promotion of this shelter house idea. Today
this organization (Reichsverband fur Deutsche
Jugendherbergen) is the official agency in charge
of this work, and Mr. Shirrman is still its active
national head, with a very busy office in Hilehen-
bach, Westphalia. In town after town and city
after city public-spirited citizens, business men,

500 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

teachers and local ofiicials, created Herberg Coun-
cils whose concern it was to find supervised shel-
ter for the ever increasing youthful visitors. Al-
though the idea spread rapidly the number of
these places had not become very large when the
war cut it off abruptly. Here follow the figures
showing their growth in the twenty-nine Herberg
districts of the Reich:

 

Individual
Number of Overnight Groups
Year Herbergen Accommodations Registered
1911 ‘ 17 3,000 No record
1913 83 21,000 No record
1919 300 60,000 No record
1921 1,300 506,000 83
1924 2,000 1,106,000 664
1926 2,147 2,107,000 850
1927 2,195 2,655,000 892
1928 2,177 3,276,000 922
1929 2,184 3,784,000 978
1931 (Estimated) 2,600 4,000,000 1,000

It is interesting
to note that in
1928 the number
of shelters w as
reduced because
of the active cam-
paign to discon-
tinue old, un-
profitable, r a m -
shackle structures.
Wandering c o n-
tinued to increase
in popularity, but
as only the better
Herbergen were
being patronized
some of the less
favored ones were
being run at great
losses to their 10-
c a1 committees.
In the formative
years almost any
available buildings, even abandoned stables, were
used for shelter purposes, but gradually better,
more spacious, more modern accommodations
have been created. Today all classes of wander-
ing German youth, boys and girls from the shops,
high schools and colleges, sleep in ancient Rhine-
land castles, in modern club buildings, and in the
converted mansions of Germany’s ex—nobility.
Furthermore, old schools and public buildings,
city halls, inns and army barracks, have been re-
modeled for their use.

Recently, within the last few years, beautiful
new club buildings. with the latest appliances for

comfort, rest and recreation have been added to
the list. These modern Herbergen have reading
and writing rooms, dormitory, shower and wash-
ing facilities of a high order; day recreation rooms
and restaurants, kitchens in which the wanderers
do their own cooking and other superbly equipped
kitchens with hired cooks making available hot
or cold dishes at short notice and at very low
costs. Some of these new buildings have play-
lields nearby or located on their own grounds.
An idea of the size and popularity of the more

Overnight Overnight

Visitors Visitors

Shelter at in 1929 Shelter at in 1929
Munchen . . . . . . . 63,000 Dresden . . . . . . . . 28.000

Hohnstein . . . . . . 56.000 Hamburg . . . . . . 28,000

Koln . . . . . . . . . . . 42,000 Altenahn . . . . . . . 20.000

Koblentz . . . . . . . 47,000 Mohnesee . . . . . . 20,000

Heidelberg . . . . . 30,000 Kassel . . . . . . . . . 20,000

Ostrow . . . . . . . . 29,000

 

Courtesy of "Leisure and Education in Germany"

Singing and playing, onward they press, seeking a
new and better order, dreaming of a happier day.

favored Herbergen can be secured from this list
of the eleven most visited places. '

A member of any of the 103 organizations or
any unaffiliated individual can use the shelter in
any part of Germany subject to district and local
rules and providing he makes application to the
National Federation in Hilchenbach. Upon appli-
cation and payment of a yearly fee, the member’s
card and Herbergen directory are sent imme-
diately. In this application you agree to abide

THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY 561

by the general rules laid down by the National
Federation and also to obey any additional regu-
lations that the local Shelter Councils have in-
stituted. Included, among others, are the fol-
lowing:

1. Obedience to all local shelter rules
2. Obedience to the house father, mother or
leader -

3. No smoking

4. No drinking of alcoholic liquors

5. You agree to help yourself and to leave
things clean and tidy. You further agree to have
no discussion while on the Herbergen premises
of any political or religious subject nor to sing
any political or religious song.

Generally the local council adds a few rules
which include, among others, going to bed not
later than 10 o’clock and arising before 8 :30.

At this point it might be worth while to com-
ment upon the behavior of German boys and
girls in the Herbergen because to an American
visitor it borders on the unbelievable. The rules
rarely are broken. Not one of the many different
house fathers, mothers and leaders with whom
we spoke could remember a single case of dis-
obedience, even one infraction of the rules; and
that among thousands of youthful visitors! There
is absolutely no smoking or drinking in the 2,600
shelter houses of Germany! No one ever dis-
cusses political or religious topics—not within the
house grounds. Everyone is in bed by 10 P. M.
and up and dressed long before 8:30 (usually
7:30). In spite of the hundreds of bicycles,
rucksacks, cameras, walking canes and other valu—
able belongings that are visible in all the rooms
of the shelter houses, nothing has ever been stolen
——although the owners often leave their things for
hours while they go off sightseeing. It is claimed
by the officials in charge of district and national
offices and verified by the house fathers, leaders
and the Wanderers themselves that rarely is any—
thing taken from dormitory, locker or play rooms.
Hundreds of boys and girls in each building, com—
ing and going, registering, repairing their bi-
cycles, reading, writing, singing—through all the
daily program from morning wash to sleep time
--—and never any “rough house,” seldom any
broken or seriously marred furniture!

Costs

Imagine if you can three hundred boys and
girls (sometimes double that number) between
the ages of fifteen and twenty-live, going through
this indicated program in an open (operating)

school building here in one of our American
cities and no adult in charge, at least no adult in
the building during two—thirds of the day. And
then answer the question so often asked in Ger-
many: “Won’t the Herbergen movement spread
to America?” German Youth, at least the
thousands with whom I came in contact, obeys
rules—without question, without exception.

The Wanderer pays for his lodging, sheets and
whatever food he buys. If he wishes he can cook
his own food and pay for the gas he consumes.
Costs are generally the same in the different shel-
ter houses and are pretty much as follows: For

Membership in the Federal Association of Shelter
Houses for Youth—

Wanderers under 20 years old .12 yearly
Wanderers over 20 years old 1.20 yearly
Foreigners 1.52 yearly

School grpups with leader—.06 for group and leader
must have his own card.

Directory of Shelters—$.30

Sleeping—School children with leader $.06 each per night
Wanderers under 20 years old .06 each per night
Wanderers over 20 years old .12 each per night

Foreigners .24 each per night
Bed Sheets—$.021A each

Storing Bicycle Overnight—$.06

Gas for cooking is charged for at the rate of
$.02% for ten minutes and blankets are furnished
free. Cooked or cold foods, table d’hote or a
la carte, are supplied in many of the larger shelter
houses at much less than prevailing local German
rates. Furthermore, groceries and other raw
foods are sold to enable you to do your own
cooking.

As for the actual management and control of
each shelter house, vthe local committee has com-
plete jurisdictions They hire and pay the house
father and/or mother and very often supply a
trained club leader in addition. Whereas the
father or mother is a salaried full or part time
employee responsible to the committee for the
cleanliness, reglstration, records, moneys and phy-
sical property, the leader is most often a volunteer
who gives his time as a labor of love. He (or she)
is a young business or professional person, teacher
or perhaps a Wandervogel or other group leader.
He comes to the shelter house in the evening and
helps to organize the very popular group singing,
amateur dramatics, discussions and musicals. By
9 :45 the evening program is over and at 10 P. M.
doors are locked and all is quiet. In those Her-
bergen where the house fathers are part time
workers, coming in the evening after 6 P. M.
or on week—ends, and in the majority of larger

places the complete daily program is managed by
youthful assistants with very small pay or none.

562 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

These seventeen to twenty-one year olds register
the W'anderer, assign rooms, store their bicycles,
distribute blankets and sheets and keep the rec—
ords.

Although the national association at Hilchen—
bach assists the local committee in finding suitable
leaders and house fathers and sometimes helps
finance a local project, its main function is to
promote the erection of suitable buildings wher-
ever the need makes itself felt. Through its dis-
trict offices it helps
create these local com-
m'ittees of public-Spin
ited men and women
and advises with them
on all matters pertain-
ing to the proposed new
shelter house.

It was with some de-
gree of disappointment
that I found so many
Herbergen located
within the cities and
towns of Germany,
many of them in nar—
row, crowded streets
one or two blocks
"(more or less) from
the railroad station.
"Then, too, large num-
bers of the youthful
\Vanderers were cycl-
ing from city to city
spending their entire
vacation time sightsee-
ing in or touring to the
very cities from which
the early \Vanderers
endeavored to flee.
Many there were who
had been away from
home three weeks and
had “seen the sights” of a string of cities
yet who never once had hiked a country road,
swum a woodland stream, or climbed a for-
ested hill. “Wandering” to large numbers of
boys and girls was just a convenient and cheap
way of seeing the sights in Berlin, Hanover, Ham-
burg and other cities.

But not all the shelter houses are so located
and not all the Wanderers so minded. It seems
to be the consensus of informed opinion that al-
together too few shelter houses are located in or
-‘ near the natural beauty spots of Germany and

 

Courtesy of "Leisure and Education in Germany"

Even windmills are made to serve as
overnight shelters for the young.

that too many \Vanderers are sightseeing only in
the towns. If the German Youth Movement
started out to promote the outdoor urge, if it
really is a “philosophy of natural life,” much re-
mains to be done to convince the boys and girls
that it is not dangerous to sleep with the windows
open, that night air does not harm the sleeper.
It was an ever recurring surprise to have to
argue the merits of open windows in large sleep-
ing dormitories with twenty or thirty fellow
sleepers. Of course,
this may or may not be
a general symptom and
means little, but discus-
sion of this and other
similar ite ms almost
convinced me that Ger-
man youth was far
from being outdoors-
minded. As for back-
pack hiking and over-
night, outdoors camp-
ing, sleeping under can-
vas and cooking out-
doors, back into the
quiet woods places and
away from cities—there
is far less of that in
the German Youth
Movement than one
would expect to find.
In the main the \Van-
derers are cyclists
rather than hikers and
the Herbergen in gen-
e ral have militated
against any appreciable
amount of camping out.

The Movement has
other values, other at-
tractions which have
caused it not only to
reach into every
corner of the
Fatherland but
also to spread to nearly every country in Europe.
From the Free State of Danzig with only four
hostels to Denmark with nearly one hundred.
every European country except France, Spain and
Russia, already has its youth hostels associations
and boasts shelter houses and groups similar to
those in Germany. Norway, Sweden. Finland
are all promoting the Youth Movement idea. some

(Continued on page 589)

Recreation in Montreal

Courtesy Vancouver Park System

By W. E. Findlay
President, Parks and Playgrounds Association

Where a city department and a
private organization unite to
promote the recreation program.

N Montreal we have a recreation department
I controlled and financed by civic authorities.

In addition, we have a Parks and Playgrounds
Association. The Department of Public Recrea—
tion was inaugurated in 1917, and during the first
few years there was not a great deal of activity;
in the past two years wonderful progress has been
made. We now have what are known as neigh-
borhood playgrounds to a number of thirty-live.
We also have a number of larger play fields
and public parks that provide facilities for
the older boys and girls and for young men and
young women. The department, in addition, has

 

The parks of Canada offer unlimited Opportunity for the
enjoyment of boating, fishing and Sports of all kinds.

eighteen baths in charge of supervisors each of
whom has a qualified certificate from the Royal
Lifesaving Society. More baths are now under
construction. There are thirty-four men and
sixteen women employees at the baths, and the
city also has twelve instructors employed the year
round to teach gymnastics.

During the past year the city has opened fifteen
new playgrounds employing eighty men and eight
women. In the winter time there are ninety
supervised skating rinks. Folk'dancing and gym-
nastics are taught, and on the larger grounds fa-
cilities are provided for baseball, volley ball, soft
ball, football and basketball.

The cost to the city of operating the play-
grounds was $169,672 for the year of 1930. The
whole trend in our city council and in the execu-
tive committee of Montreal is for increasing the
facilities for play among young children, particu-
larly in the provision of neighborhood play-
grounds. It is now realized that while there is

(Continued on page 591)

563

Courtesy Board of Park Commissioners, Peoria, Illinois

AT just this time the many park and recreation execu-
tives are beginning to wonder whether the “weather
man" is going to smiie upon a winter sports program this
year. “Are we going to have any snow this winter?"
“Wiil it be coid enough for skating?" These are a few of
the questions which both officiais and those eager to

564

 

participate in winter sports are asking.

Ampie provision has been made by the Peoria, iili-n'l
Board of Park Commissioners for iovers of winter SPor
in Bradiey Park, ski jumps and toboggan slides have b!
constructed, whiie Gien Oak Park, as the photOQJ‘!
shows, is a notabie winter sports center. Last winter “I

 

not as favorable for such sports as some other years have
been, but the Park Commissioners are h0ping this winter
to hold an ice carnival at Glen Oak Park, and with this
in mind they are Increasing the facilities for winter fun.
For winter Sports represent one of the most popular items
of the park program, and never fail to attract many people.

At America's
Playland

P where the mountains meet the sky, and
the deep, white snows of winter say to
young and old, “Come up and play!” Lake

Placid, long crowned winter-sports capital of
America, will be host to the world when this
Adirondack village stages the III Olympic Winter
Games, February 4-13, 1932.

Speed skaters from Finland, mighty atom of
the athletic world——-world-fa1nous ski jumpers
from the far-off Land of the Midnight Sun—a
Polish hockey team—graceful figure skaters from
Old World capitals—jdare-devil bob sledders from
Germany and the Argentine—teams of huskies,
sled dogs from the snowy wastes of Canada—and
a group of tam-o’-shantered curlers from Bonnie
Scotland—these are only a few of the athletes of
winter who will display their prowess under the
Olympic egis in Lake Placid.

About twenty—live nations, it is expected, will
take part in the Olympic Winter Games of 1932
at Lake Placid. These nations will be represented.
by several hundred athletes who will compete in
the major Olympic winter sports: Speed skating,
figure skating, skiing, bob sledding and hockey,
and two Olympic demonstrations, curling and sled
dog racing.

The Facilities

All speed skating events will be contested on.
the new Olympic stadium track. Completed last
winter at a total cost of $125,000, the stadium
affords one of the finest layouts for outdoor ice
sports to be found anywhere in the world. It con--
tains a standard 400-meter track, hockey boxes,
and seating accommodations for 5,000 spectators.
Standing room for approximately 1,000 more .is.
also provided. In addition to the speed skating,
the stadium will be the scene of the opening and
closing ceremonies of the Games and the start
and finish of the lS-kilometer and 50-kilometer
ski races and the sled dog competitions.

The Olympic Arena of brick and concrete con--
struction, which is now being erected, will seat
3,000 spectators. It is 238’ long x 143’ wide. The
Arena will be the scene of the figure skating and
curling competitions and of a number of the
hockey games.

Everything has been planned for the comfort
and convenience of all who visit Lake Placid to
see these classic contests or take part in them.

565

Recreation

Executives

Discuss Policies,

Plans and Problems

A digest of the meetings
of recreation executives

at the Toronto Congress.

 

Photo by Michigan Department of Conservation

Much time was given to discussing out-of-door

are now being used to unify the efforts of

all agencies who are promoting or spon-
soring a recreation program to prevent duplica-
tion of effort and outlay of funds,” the superin-
tendents of recreation made cooperation their first
subject of discussion. W'. C. Batchelor, superin-
tendent of recreation in Pittsburgh, opening the
discussion, said that local conditions must color

U NDER the title “What successful methods

activities in park areas and similar centers.

recreation is closely in touch with this. There is
also a girls’ conference with which the supervisor
of girls’ activities keeps in contact. There are
various organizations coordinating sports. Rep-
resentatives from the Bureau of Recreation serve
on committees of such groups and the Bureau
issues permits for the use of athletic facilities.

the problem.
may be the answer. In large
cities, with years of tradition
behind them, unification is not
the answer, but in the main co-
ordination, diplomacy, diplo-
matic relations. The success of
any cooperative arrangement
depends upon the personnel.
Superintendents of. municipal
recreation must know what is
'wing done by all agencies.
I‘it‘csburgh has a boys’ club
muncil in which all agencies
.1 ring boys’ work are repre-
«mml. "he superintendent of

Dlill

In a small community unification

Similarly,

Following the usual custom of the
Recreation Congress. a meeting
was held for recreation executives
on the opening day of the Con-
gress. October 5th. The morning
meeting. consisting of two sessions,
was devoted to a discussion of sub-
iects of general interest to all exec-
utives. In the afternoon the exec-
utives divided into two groups,
those representing cities over 50.-
000 in population and those from
communities of less than 50,000,
and in these two meetings problems
of definite interest to each group
were considered.

a municipal

recreation department
must be in touch with indus-
tries, churches and other local
groups.

Briefly—cooperation is large-
1y a matter of local conditions
involving for the most part the
unification as far as possible of
public departments, and diplo-
matic relationships with other
agencies.

C. L. Glenn, Director, Divi-
sion of Physical Education and
Athletics, Los Angeles Board of
Education, chairman of the ses-
sion, reported writing one hun-

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 567

dred cities to learn how they were handling the
problem. He found a trend toward coordination,
which, he said, is really c00peration.

Sibyl Baker, Supervisor of Playgrounds in
Washington, D. C., raised the question whether
it would be possible in a city such'as \Vashington,
where the governmental departments are chiefly
federal, to coordinate the programs of the three
public agencies Operating there, each of which is
so established in its own prerogatives. Many be-
lieve cooperation would bring a stronger program.
Each existing program is rich but 'something is
lost in between. An advisory council has been
appointed and it is hoped a plan may be evolved
which will
better unify
the system.

Elizabeth K .
Peeples, Director
of the Community
Center Depart-
ment in \Vashing-
t o n, u r g e d a
cl 0 s e r coordin-
ation between rec-
reational and redu-
cational agencies.
feeling that th e
willingness of
boards of educa-
tion to c00pera—
tion and their ap—
preciation of rec-
reation were not
always recognized.

The question of
who is to accept responsibility for the task of
coordination was brought up. It was felt that
the recreation executive has a large responsibility
in seeing that the task was done, though he may
not be the one to do it himself. “Personal con—
tacts and friendly relationships often do the “trick,”
said Mr. Batchelor, “where 10gic fails.” The
warning was sounded, however, that there should
be an omcial board to'maintain the relationships
in case there should be a change of personnel.

The method of indirection is often valuable. A
council of agencies brought about by the superin-
tendent of recreation, though that fact may not
be known, meeting regularly at luncheons; or a
series of meetings of character-building agencies
——all are helpful. It all depends on the leader who
is guiding the program.

If a plan of coordination is successful it will

Indoor recreation and adult activ-
ities were subjects of discussion.

c _ - —"‘-

Courtesy Radburn, N. IL, Assoh'on

be because all of the agencies have a part. Ideals
and objectives must be kept in mind and selfish
interests not allowed to interfere.

Adult Recreation

H HAT should be done to improve our

h adult recreation program?” was discussed
by'VV.‘ Duncan Russell, General Director, Com-
munity Service of Boston, Inc., under three
heads: (1) organization for an improved pro-
gram; (2) activity necessary to an improved pro-
gram; (3) the financing of such a program.

It is only when the most convincing arguments
are presented that the public will support an im-
proved recreation program for adults. Radio,
newspapers, questionnaires and speaking cam—

 

paigns among local organizations are some‘ of the
means used.

Having gained public support, the next step is
to see that the organization of the program is
entrusted to :the proper department. Who is to
assume responsibility? The answer is not easy.
“Is it your tendency,” Mr. Russell asked, “to be
prejudiced in favor of the department you repre-
sent 'or have you real convictions as to what de-
partment is most competent?”

Then comes the task of securing the extensive
participation on the part of adults which is abso—
lutely essential to the improvement of the pro-
gram. Here a number of questions arise. Is it
essential that adults shall share in the formation
of the program? What is the experience of rec—
reation executives with neighborhood program
communities? How far may they be safely per-

568 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

mitted to go? Are there any alternatives to such
committees in interesting the community in the
program? Are activity questionnaires practical?

There are two groups to be considered in any
discussion of adult activities. In one group are
the adults who have not passed the age of strenu-
ous activity-eighteen to thirty or thirty-five; in
the second are adults above that age. The first
group presents no great problem as to a program
which will assure extensive participation. One
question, however, may arise; that is, the best
system of organized athletics for young men
which will assure that all sports in their respective
seasons get maximum participation and facilities
for these 'sports, the most equitable distribution
possible. For the first time in history Boston is
using all available baseball diamonds and basket-
ball courts to maximum capacity, and the secret
has been the assumption of complete control of all
registration, schedules, permits, regulations and
officiating by the Boston Park Department. Is it
possible to improve adult programs for this group
to the extent of maximum participation without
ad0pting such a system?

What Can Be Done for Older Adults?

T HE second group—the older adults—present
the most acute problem. There is plenty of
testimony as to the benefit of neighborhood dra-
matic clubs, hiking clubs and handicraft. But
without discounting the benefits of these special-
ized activities, are there any activities for this
older group which are comparable, in their power
to attract, to the athletic organizations possible
among the younger adults? A study of a neigh-
borhood may show, for example, that there are
10,000 adults of this second class. Are there rec-
reation ’directors who can testify that their pro-
grams of activities for this age attracts more than
one-tenth of their total number? In this critical
time one-tenth is not enough. Boston has suc-
cumbed ’to the spectator type of recreation for

this group. The thousands of dollars which have‘

been spent on concrete bleachers for park depart-
ment playgrounds may not meet the problem in
the way we would like to see it met, but it is at
least an attempt. “What have you done,” asked
Mr. Russell, “to encourage this adult group to
do more on public playgrounds than to watch
others play? What have you in your centers for
men which is comparable to mothers’ clubs for
women? This group is of vital importance and

yet we have failed to meet their recreational
needs.”

As for problems of finance, to what extent can
participants be charged with the cost? “These
charges will not paylfor the Opening up of new
centers; from what sources should the money
come? Is one reason why there is such a small
percentage of older adults in {the program due to
the fact that they are being charged for recrea-
tion? This presents an interesting problem par-
ticularly at a time when so many of the adult
population are without funds for recreation.”

The discussion following centered largely about
the financing of activities with the usual division
of opinion. Some felt adults are paying for their
recreation through taxation and ought not to be
asked to pay again; others felt adults should pay
and where facilities for games are expensive, re-
quiring much space, it is reasonable to make a
charge. One executive pointed out the necessity
for making concessions at times. If the budget
has been drastically cut and it is possible to main-
tain lthe program by making a few charges, it is
not justifiable to ask adults to pay for leadership?

Activities for Girls and Women

OW to increase attendance at activities for

girls and women was the final subject dis-
cussed in‘the first session of the morning’s meet-
ing. Right leadership—attractive places—a good
program were the solutions offered by Dorothea
Nelson, Superintendent of Recreation in Louis-
ville.

Younger girls, 'M_iss Nelson said, are most at-
tracted by leaders who are vivacious and young.
The type of organization does not make so much
difference, but classification on a neighborhood
basis is better than organization by industries.
Young girls must be given Opportunity to meet
boys under wholesome circumstances and their
activities must be thoroughly up-to-date. On the
athletic side there is too much discussion of bas-
ketball as though it were the chief athletic prob-
lem. In organized basketball it is advisable, of
course, to start playing girls’ rules but inadvis-
able, Miss Nelson believes, to exclude girls who
have always played boys’ rules; let the change
come gradually. The employed group is a good
unit with which to start.

With older women the leadership must be dif-
ferent. The leader must be of such a type that
she can become one of the group. Progress can-
not be so intensive as in the younger group.

Josephine Blackstock, Director of the Play-
ground Board of Oak Park, Illinois, told how,
through a plan of cooperation with the Women’s

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

Club, it was possible to secure the participation of
1,000 employed girls in a program of recreation.
Postals were sent out telling of the many recrea-
tional activities which a membership of $5.00
would bring.

Handcraft is a valuable ‘activity for girls and
women. In Westchester County, New York, or-
ganized handcraft classes are maintained from
October to May, all free except
for the material used. The
first problem was to find out
what the women wanted. Bas-
ketry attracted most of them;
sewing drew foreign born
women. Then came weaving,
metal work and other forms of
handcraft. The handcraft pro-
gram must be diversified just as
the entire program for girls
and women must be varied
without overemphasis on ath-
letics.

It was thought that beauty in
play centers, especially in poorer
sections of cities, had an influ-
ence in attracting women. In the development of
one ’large tract in Glens Falls, New York, the
working men were organized to beautify the play-
ground, while the women did their part in serving
suppers. The people of the entire neighborhood
now golthere with their children and they enjoy
it because it is beautiful. Ruth Sherburne, Super-
intendent of Recreation at Glens Falls further
pointed out the importance, in'a program of ac-
tivities for women and girls, of using the trained
leadership available through other agencies. Miss
Sherburne is organizing units in handcraft, home
nursing and home beautification, and the State
Extension Department is loaning workers.

Educational Value of Recreation

HOW to make the recreation program of
greater educational value was the first sub-
ject discussed in the second morning session.

It is important to realize, Dr. Burdick, Director
of the Playground Athletic League pointed out,
that education is carried on everywhere. Every
agency has a definite part in the education of chil-
dren—in his adaptability to life. The responsi-
bility of the recreation 'worker in this educational
process is a vital one. His task extends to home
play, and there should be a more definite relation-
ship to the 'leadership of parents in their relation
to the child’s play activities and the use of his

 

Courtesy Chicago Board of Education

Winter sports—always a fascinat-
ing topic to recreation workers.

569

leisure time. A new philosophy is needed here.
There is a great educational field for recreation
workers in advising with mothers in mothers’ clubs
and in c00peration with other agencies interested
in children. The recreation department may act
as a laboratory for child study groups.

There is educational work to be done with the
churches,‘many of which are going to great ex-
pense in the erection of build-
ings in neighborhoods already
served by a park or recreation
department. There is no neces-
sity, Dr. Burdick believes, for
churches to put plants where
other recreation buildings exist.
It is important, however, that
churches maintain leadership.
They might well put equipment
for children in their basements
until the city can provide play-
grounds in a half mile radius.

Of great importance is the re-
lationship of the recreation
movement to schools. How can
recreation help education, not
instruction? It is recognized that there is need
in the school organization of groups to conduct
interschool and extraschool activities. Recreation
departments though they should take the position,
in Dr. Burdick’s. opinion, that they have nothing
to do with schools only after school hours, may
well conduct after-school activities for the schools
on school playgrounds, at evening recreation cen-
ters, and Saturdays and Sundays at athletic fields.
In Baltimore any one asking for the use of school
facilities must apply to the Playground Athletic
League which has found the plan successful of
conducting playgrounds after school, sometimes
using teachers. The League also conducts vaca-
tion playgrounds—a service for which it is paid
by the school board.

The handling of athletic fields on Saturdays and
Sundays by the recreation department is impor-
tant. In Baltimore baseball clubs pay $3.00 for
the use of the grounds to cover custodial care and
umpires’ fees.

Another function of the recreation department
in relation to education is the stimulation of
school plants to use their facilities in new ways for
the good of the public. Occasionally, too, recrea-
tion departments may aid schools which cannot
provide physical education, making this training
of an informal type.

Dr. Burdick felt that now when financing is so

570

difficult it is necessary to set
up general principles and then
make adaptations. “Business
men,” he said, “must under-
stand what ground each
agency is covering and sharp
distinctions must be made.
This is particularly true where
schools are concerned, for edu—
cational authorities as a rule
have made no great progress
in their attitude toward the
recreation movement.”

Administration Problems

GEORGE HJELTE, Sup-
erintendent of Recrea-
tion, \Vestchester County,
New York, stated he was not
in agreement with Dr. Bur-
dick’s suggestion that recrea-
tion departments refrain from
having anything to do with
school buildings during school

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

An interesting comment on the Con-
gress comes in a letter from Berta
Hamiltonl Department of Social Sci-
ence, University of TorontoI whose stu-
dents attended the meetings.

"The students were impressed with
the expressions on the faces of the
delegates, feeling that at least at this
conference eople seemed to be
happy and 'olfy. whereas at man con-
ferences t ey look depresseJ and
heavy. Some felt there was too great a
tendency to standardize play and rec-
reation and this went against all their
feelings because they argue that play
is something absolutely spontaneous
and' as one person expressed it. 'to lie
on a roclt with your face to the sun is
play to some people.' Another said
that surely the time when a little boy
can go out with a fishing rod and fish
in a stream is not yet gon-e. However.
even those students recognize that
with the modern town thought must be
given to this question of leisure. On
that everyone was agreed. It was only
on the turn the thought might tend to
take about which people disagree."

a liner and more extensive
program of recreation could
be worked out under the aus-
pices of the Board of Educa-
tion than seemed possible in
any other way.

“Several days later I con-
sulted with the oFlicials of an-
other community where differ-
ent advice was given. Here it
was recommended that a public
recreation commission be set
up to organize recreation, uti-
lizing such inadequate facilities
as the public schools had as
well as other facilities which
were available. This advice
was given for several reasons.
In the first place. the public
schools had very inadequate
grounds and buildings which
did not lend themselves to
community activities. In fact,
they are inadequate for the

hours. The recreation move-

ment has not reached the stage where it can say
under what particular auspices the recreation pro-
gram is to be operated. Local conditions must
determine whether it'shall be the school board or
a new independent organization.

“In my capacity as Superintendent of Recrea-
tion for \Vestchester County,” Mr. Hjelte said,
“I am frequently called into consultation with
municipal and public school officials as to the or-
ganization which should be set up to make greatest
use of the recreational resources, in facilities as
well as leadership, to best provide for community
recreation. Recently on such a call I advised
that the public school organization assume com—
plete responsibility for the administration of rec-
reation in the community of which it was a part.
This advice was given for several reasons. In
theifirst place there was no other agency, either
park or recreation department, to which the re—
sponsibility could be assigned. Secondly, the
school department had land and structures under
its control which, according to present standards.
were sufficient to care for a well rounded program
of community recreation. Thirdly, the Board of

Education, the Superintendent of Schools, heads
of departments and teachers were very progres-
sive in their attitude toward recreation and the
function of the public school, and it seemed that

present school program. Sec-
ondly, the Board of Education, the Superintendent
of Schools and the school teachers do not accept
‘complete preparation for citizenship’ as the prime
objective of public education and seem to be con-
tent to limit the school endeavors to the traditional
subjects and activities with slight reference to the
part which these activities may play in the com-
munity life. Thirdly, the assessable wealth of the
district is not great and the school system is suf-
fering continually for the want of sufficient re-
sources to carry on a limited school program.

“Two other examples occur to me which illus—
trate the point. In one city in \Vestchester
County for several years the public schools have
undertaken to provide all recreational service re-
quired by the community, making unnecessary the
setting up of any other public recreation agency.
The community in which this school department
is located is as well served recreationally as any
other in the county. The customary services of
providing playgrounds and indoor f acilities, organ-
izing groups in a varied program of activities and
promoting desirable forms of recreation are pro-
vided through the schools. Certainly it would be

foolhardy to set up another agency here. Another
public school department in the county undertook
the same obligation with reference to recreation
some years ago but made a bad job of it. The

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 571

community in which this school department oper-
ates is poorly served at present and it is evident to
many who have observed the situation that greater
progress could be made if a recreation commis—
sion or department were set up to organize the
recreational life.

“I cite these four examples in order to show
that what works in one community does not work
in another. Many other examples could be given.
It is my Opinion that we are a IOng way from
being able to prescribe a standard form of organ—
ization of recreation for American cities and vil-
lages. The form of organization that is best
adapted depends so much upon the progress al-
ready made in several departments of public
work, _the political organization of the community,
the attitudes of public officials and employees, the
popular concept of the function of public schools
and of other departments of government, the
financial situation; in fact, so many things as to
seem to make it unwise to prescribe any set form
of administration at this time. ' Until more ex-
perience is had and recreation as a public job is
more generally understood and accepted, expedi-
ency should determine the form of organization.

“Our difficulty arises from trying to ht some-
thing which is different in each community into a
set form. You cannot standardize the manner of
managing something which, every place you en—
counter it, is different than it is elsewhere and
hence is itself unstandardized.”

Improving Leadership Standards

THE discussion of the subject, “What can recre-

ation systems do to improve the standards of
recreation 1e a d -

ers ?” was opened
by F l o y d A.
Rowe, Board of
Education, Cleve-,
land, Ohio.

The hrst essen—
tial is necessarily
to make as good a
choice as possible
of n ew leaders.
No one can meas-
ure intent interest
or personality, and
so some 0 t h e r
b a s i s must be
worked 0 ut for
the solution of
new workers. The

I! ,
~ in I ._

burles- Deartent of Playgrounds, Washington, D. C.

Board of Education of Cleveland has set up a defi-
nite score in selecting its recreation workers and
does not rely on personal interviews. The plan
followed has been successful in Cleveland; it
might not be, Mr. Rowe stated, in other cities.

The rating scheme used gives certain grades or
weights for specinc accomplishments. A score of
one hundredis possible but not probable.

Six items are included. The first is based upon
Terman’s group test in mental ability, grades 9-12.
There is a rather rigid adherence in the rule of
employing no one with a raw score of less than
150 in this test. It has been found that persons
scoring above 200 are not apt to be good workers.

The next item is that of the training class held
for workers, carrying with it two semester hour
credits. Then comes age. An interesting finding
here is that the average age of the most successful
men workers is two years above the average age
of the most successful women—twenty—five and
twenty-three respectively. Mr. Rowe stated it is
his experience that 'it does not pay to employ
peOple over twenty-five who have not had ex-
perience.

The fourth item is that of athletic participation,
where credit is given for the number of different
teams upon which the individual has actually com-
peted.

The last two items, educational requirements
and experience, are self-explanatory. Cleveland’s
experience has shown that people who have had
some experience are more likely to succeed than
those who have had none, and that applicants who
have had two years of educational opportunity
beyond high school are more likely to be success-

During the past year Washington maintained 8 year-round
playgrounds for colored children and 12 school grounds.

 

S72 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

ful than those who have not gone so far. Leaders
taking courses in physical education in colleges,
it was found, do not have greater chance for suc-
cess than those who have had no such opportunity.

Mr. Rowe stressed particularly the importance
of intelligence tests on the basis that it does not
pay to take pe0ple whose intelligence is above or
below a certain point. On this question there was
considerable difference of opinion on the part of
those contributing to the discussion, one worker
stating that in many such tests learning is often
confused with intelligence. Some questioned the
advisability of rul-
ing out workers of
high intelligence.
Mr. Rowe’s re-
sponse was th at
pe0ple of high in-
telligence soon ex-
haust the possibili-
ties of their job
and so lose out.

On the question
of improving the
standards of work-
ers already in service someone suggested that the
receration movement could well profit by the ex-
perience of education in sending teachers out for
further study at stated intervals.

Recreation and Unemployment

HE question of what a recreation department

can do to aid the unemployed in the wise use
of their leisure was one which was of keen in-
terest to the superintendents of recreation in their
meetings, as it was to the general Congress.

Charles H. English, Executive Secretary of
the Philadelphia Playgrounds Association, told of
the recreation program which the association has
been conducting for 12,000 homeless men in the
Philadelphia shelter. Mr. English outlined the
mental attitudes of the unemployed man who is
at first not willing to talk about his troubles. He
has lost his self-respect and has become exceed-
ingly sensitive. The first problem is to win his
cooperation and confidence. In general, the
homeless, unemployed man goes, through three
stages. He loses his job and works hard in an
honest attempt to find another. Toward the end
of this first period there is a decline and an anti-
social reaction. The surprising thing is that more
men have not gone to the low point of vicious atti-
tude but have rebounded, and there is a slight trend
upward. Having tried with no success in finding

 

Courtesy Bureau of Recreation, Chicago Board of Education

Seasonal activities In the pro-
gram—ever a matter of interest.

work, they pass into the tragic cycle of indiffer-
ence—not caring what happens. It is then that
they come to the shelter willing to accept anything
that means food and shelter. Many of these men
were well educated—professional men—men who
have been decent citizens. How to restore their
self-respect was the problem.

The Playgrounds Association put in charge of
the fioor placed at its disposal for recreation a re-
tired major with a top sergeant as his assistant.
These men knew how to handle men, but they
also knew how to soften the rigidity of army
training. They de-
veloped sixty aides.
By consulting reg-
istration c a r d s it
was possible to
learn of special
training which the
men had had. Two
librarians w e r e
f o u n d to take
charge of the thou-
sand books sent by
the public library.
Other men were as-
signed to work
which t h e y knew
how to do, and their self-respect began to come
back.

In addition to books, games of the quiet type
were included—checkers, cards, puzzles. Gym-
nastic equipment was installed, and training quar-
ters for boxing were opened. The State chairman
of the boxing commission agreed to run the bouts.

Then the men were induced to entertain one
another, and much latent talent was unearthed.
A Negro minstrel show was developed which
proved a great morale builder. Music provided a
cohesive force. Home talent affairs became the
most p0pular item of the program. On one night
of the week outside talent was brought in, while
Saturday night with its “heavy entertainment pro-
gram,” was voted the best of all. This year talks
will be given on Sunday.

The responsibility of the recreation worker Mr.

. English stated to be to prevent disturbing ele-

ments from taking advantage of men who have
had heartrending experiences and to help rebuild
spirit and physique; to take men who have been
good citizens and energize them to take their

proper place in society.

Note: Additional information given by Mr. English and the
chart showing the mental stages through which the unemployed
go will be found in the December, 1931, RECREATION under the
title “Recreation in the Unemployment Relief Program."

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 573

Lowering Recreation Costs

OW to increase recreation service at lower

cost was the first subject discussed at the two
sessions for communities of over 50,000 popula-
tion.

Arthur E. Genter of Pontiac, Michigan, offered
three suggestions: (1) that the recreation oppor-
tunities and facilities of all agencies be utilized
to the fullest, thereby preventing overlapping of
services; (2) that volunteer leaders be secured to
help with the program; (3) that welfare relief
labor be utilized in improving recreation areas and
facilities.

Mr. Genter told how a baseball association was
organized in Pontiac comprising the managers and
players of the teams in the senior league. Through
the cooperation of this association it was possible
to finance two teams at the cost of one team during
the previous year and to raise a fund which made
possible a twenty team junior baseball league.
Members of the association served as umpires and
scorers at junior league games and also provided
bats, balls and other equipment for the younger
players.

Among the people employed by the city as re-
lief labor it is possible to find athletes, musicians
and others who are especially trained and who can
give service to the recreation department. In one
city, by the careful selection of
people assigned to paint a

This year the Emergency Work Bu-
reau of New York City

The Juvenile Delinquent

“ HAT is the best way for a municipal

recreation department to work with a
group of juvenile delinquents? What can play
activities do for the unadjusted child? How far
is it advisable for recreation workers to attempt
to do'case work with special boys and girls or
older people?”

Mrs. P. H. Valentine, Smith Memorial Play-
grounds, Philadelphia, discussing this subject, em-
phasized the fact that the recreation worker should
not deal with juvenile delinquents as such nor
exclude them from the playground. To exclude
them does not help to solve the problem but creates
additional problems since the children will make
more trouble in the neighborhood. Temporary
expulsion may be advisable under certain cases
but not permanent expulsion.

The importance of utilizing the gang or group
was emphasized, also the necessity of securing
cooperation from other agencies such as the Juve-
nile Court and the city psychiatrist. In order to
solve the problem of the delinquent child, it is
necessary to evaluate the individual’s social quali-
ties and find where the trouble lies. It is difficult
to judge a child only by his conduct on the play-
ground, and much can be secured by making a
case work study of conditions in the home and
neighborhood which affect the
child’s conduct. T h e play-

is faced with ' ground director should spend

municipal bathhouse, one or
two expert painters were se-
cured for the job. They not
only gave fine service during
the hours in which they were
paid by the city but they also
contributed time for the paint-
ing of other facilities of the
department. .
One delegate suggested that
the service of the department
can be increased by adding to
and enriching the program of
activities. In line with this
was another comment that it is
time to increase the use of ex-
isting facilities and the partici-
pation in' existing activities,
thereby showing a lower unit
cost which helps in securing
additional appropriations. The
past year has shown reduced
cost in many of our cities.

the necessity of creating jobs for work-
ers of the "white collar'I class. and is
providing work on the basis of five days

a week for stenographers. nurses. li-:
brarians. and for all who have any :‘
qualifications for leadership in the rec- ,

reation field. These potential recrea-
tion workers are being fitted into posi-
tions which are created in the city
playground systems of the four bor-
oughs. and. through the Neighborhood
Workers' Association. in settlements.
church houses. and various social and
civic organizations in which leaders can
be utilized in music. drama. and arts

and crafts.
By December the first. 260 individ—

uals had been laced. the ma'ority of
them on city pl; grounds. Ot ers are
being rapidly ad ed. A training course
has been organized for those needing
further training in recreational activi-
ties. Those qualifying may take civil
service examinations in the spring for
permanent positions on municipal play
centers.

part of his time in visiting the
homes. Such service brings
worth while results just as
visiting teachers from the

' schools have helped b ring
I about better conditions in the

schools. Individual contacts
with children are perhaps more
important than the teaching of
game techniques.

The Unadjusted Child

THE playground is a‘x’good
place for studying the re-
actions of the unadjusted child.
A case was cited of a child who
was inferior to a younger and
highly intelligent brother. The
older child was continually
making trouble on the play-
ground, and this was finally
traced to. aninferiority com-

574 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

plex. The older child was given an opportunity
to try out the various activities at the Children’s
Village and he enjoyed most being a policeman
where he would have an opportunity to show his
authority and qualities of leadership. After
being made a policeman he grew to be a very
responsible child.

A number of executives took part in the dis-
cussion following Mrs. Valentine’s paper. Refer-
ence was made to the situation in Oak Park. Illi-
nois, where the Institute of Juvenile Research of-
ten send problem children to the playgrounds and
suggests activities in which they can best partici-
pate. These are generally handicraft, dramatics
and folk dances. These special children do tend
to disrupt activities and are sometimes difficult to
_manage. Results are worth while, however. and
have been found most effective in dramatic activi-
ties.

, Albert B. Hines, director of the Madison

Square Boys Club of New York City, expressed
the opinion that the playground offers a splendid
opportunity to do work with delinquents and that
the best way of treating them is to let them come
into the playgrounds as “regular” boys. In his
Boys Club the average delinquent fits in without
difficulty except for psychiatric cases.

Dr. William Burdick mentioned the fact that
there was tremendous need for recreation in the
institutions for juvenile delinquents and it was
often very difficult to persuade the boards or man-
agers of these institutions to see the importance of
providing play activities. Sometimes a demon-
stration is effective. A play period conducted in
an institution for delinquent girls was a revelation
to the officials in charge and changed their attitude.

The director at the National Training School
for Boys in Washington, D. C., believes in recrea-
tion and has secured the cooperation of municipal
officials in building a play program. The Depart-
ment of Playgrounds was asked if it could not use
some of the boys, and as a result a number of
these boys have helped in the Department store-
house, in remodeling equipment and in various
other types of service.

E. F. Morgan, of Ottawa, Canada, urged
greater cooperation between recreation and court
officials. Several boys sent to the playground by
the juvenile courts of Ottawa have turned out well.
Juvenile boys must be led and not driven; they
must be watched and given exceptional things to
do involving responsibility. It is time that we
passed the stage of sending boys to institutions.

Mention was made of the situation in Bloom-

field, New Jersey, where the recreation executive
serves as parole officer with splendid results.
Gerard M. Phelan, of Kenosha, Wisconsin,
pointed out that the conduct of boys is largely
controlled by the ideal of a group or gang. A
study of boys’ groups in Kenosha showed that
only about one-third of them were delinquents.
Recreation programs have been provided for a
large number of these gangs and many delinquent
tendencies have been thwarted.

When the Budget ls Cu’r
DISCUSSING the question, “If the budget is

cut, what activities should be cut ?” Ernst
Hermann, of \Vest Newton, Mass, suggested that
if the pr0posed cut were to be a small one, from 3
to 10 per cent., for example, it might be possible
to slice each item of the budget proportionately,
particularly if the budget were well balanced.
Naturally the best procedure to be followed in the
case of a budget cut would vary from one city to
another, but the following comments were offered
for discussion:

Overhead expenses should be checked carefully.
Too many cities are spending time and money in
studying projects which can better be done by
others or which have already been done by na-
tional or other organizations.

Improvements can be made in the care and
maintenance methods in most cities. Motorization
of grass cutting, for example, materially reduces
the cost of maintaining lawns where the size of the
area warrants. In Newton the cost of maintain-
ing nine acres of ice was formerly five thousand
dollars, whereas now with motorized ice—main-
taining equipment several times this acreage is
kept in good condition.

It is sometimes possible to postpone painting
or other maintaining expenditures for another
year although necessary repairs should never be
neglected. It is very important that playing fields
and other game areas should be kept in good con-
dition and not allowed to deteriorate.

As for personnel and leadership, it is impor-
tant not to reduce the amount of leadership in
adult activities since fathers and mothers should
be encouraged to play. Parents who take part in
the recreation program are more likely to play
with their children. It may be possible, however,
to reduce the number of play leaders in children’s
activities by finding and developing leadership
among the children themselves. The socializing
of play programs and projects on the playground
will make them of greater value to the children

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 575

than if too much and too constant leadership is
provided.

New equipment and construction can often be
postponed for another year or two, and in the case
of some repairs, temporary construction may be
used instead of providing new equipment. Mr.
Hermann believes that too much money is spent
in creating artificial environments for playing.
Indoor swimming pools, he believes, are not only
unnecessary but are for the most part undesir-
able since swimming should be a seasonal activ-
ity. He holds a similar conviction about indoor
artificial ice skating rinks.

The budget item for new land should under
no circumstances be cut. It is important that
land be acquired while it is still available. In
the City of Newton the importance of acquiring
land has been emphasized so strongly that in
Spite of the present economic situation increased
amounts are being allowed for recreation land
purposes. Commenting on Mr. Hermann’s re-
marks, Mrs. Valentine of Philadelphia pointed
out the satisfaction which sometimes comes
from the cutting of the appropriation for equip-
ment. This results in the development of re-
sourcefulness and imagination on the part of
the children in devising their own play activities.

Lincoln E. Rowley, of East Orange, New
Jersey, put the question as to whether recreation
departments and executives should offer to
have their budgets cut in view of the present
economic depression. The majority of work-
ers felt that this step should not be taken but
that they should be prepared to indicate where
a cut could best be made in case it should be-
come necessary to reduce the budget.

It was reported that in Yonkers, New York,
the band concert funds
were cut in half last year
in order to provide money
to surface several play—
grounds. Not only were the play areas improved
but also a number of men were provided with
employment.

A number of workers believe the present situ-
ation is providing unusual opportunities for se—
curing needed improvements and equipment on
their play areas.

Bases of Relationships

“ HE best possible” is the answer to the ques—

tion. What is a desirable basis of relation—
ship and cooperation between a park department
and a municipal recreation department, said C. E.

Courtesy Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Department

Camping, it was agreed, is one of the
most desirable activities for girls.

Brewer, Commissioner of Recreation in Detroit,
Michigan, in Opening this discussion. “Ninety-nine
per cent of park property is for the recreational
use of the people. Since taXpayers support parks
it is only when their use is developed to the maxi-
mum that taxpayers get their value for the money
spent. Whether or not parks, as such, and park
recreatiOni'areas should be administered by sepa—
rate organizations is still a question. Certainly a

 

 

"' “all 1 .
I V ,, ,..,,.   M I 1, .,,.  law-24w- . 1“,“ ..._. . mix:

well trained park executive with
a recreational viewpoint could do
it well enough but a recreation department, as a
separate body, can usually administer recreation
facilities better than can the average park execu-
tive without a recreational point of view. The
greatest source of disagreement between park and
recreation executives is the question of reserving
space for beautification. In Detroit the park
superintendent was persuaded to put in recreation
supplies and to develop a third of a certain park
area for recreation purposes. In this way we
proved that this area was not only used but that
the remaining two-thirds was saved for beauti-
fication purposes with greater economy for every-

576 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

one concerned. In this same city, the Park De-
partment improves old properties, purchases new
ones, and builds physical facilities for recreation
purposes. Legally they would have the right to
bill the Recreation Department for these services
with the result that the recreation budget would
be seriously strained. It can readily be seen that a
situation such as this is only possible through the
greatest cooperation and that therefore the answer
to this question of relationships must necessarily

Before we can validly claim greater prestige
for recreation we must elevate our own standards
of qualifications and preparation. Schools de-
mand two years of normal school training for
teachers of elementary schools, at least four years
of college education for high school teachers and
additional work of those who wish to qualify for
advancement. We as a group must follow this

example and must increase our own educational
requirements.

be “the best possible.”

Prestige for Recreation

HE question of what can

be done to gain prestige for
recreation equivalent to that for
education was discussed by
George Hjelte, Superintendent
of Recreation, Westchester
County, New York, Recreation
Commission, who outlined a
number of reasons why educa-
tion in the past has enjoyed a
much greater prestige than rec-
reation. “Education as an ac-
tivity of society,” he said, “en-
joys a prestige which no other
agency does. \Vhen the demo-
cratic form of government was

An enjoyable feature of one of
the evening meetings of the Con-
gress was the concert given by the
Symphony Orchestra of Niagara
Falls. New Yorlc. an organization
composed entirel of volunteers
and conducted by a volunteer
leader. Mr. W. A. Scotchmer.
Among the selections played were
the Prelude to Act III of Wagner's
"Lohengrin" and tour movements
from Haydn's Symphony No. l3
in 6.

When the orchestra started it
had the help of a few citizens in
purchasing instruments. but since
that time it has been on a self-sus-
taining basis. Last ear it gave two
concerts. Reh-earsafs are held in the
High School Auditorium. and the

Orchestra has the use of music
from the High School Library.

“In contrasting education with
recreation we find that educa-
tion has a more highly develop-
ed central organization than
does recreation. \V e need to
reach the point where every
worker on a playground will
feel that he is a part of a great
national movement.

“We can enhance recreation
by identifying it with education.
Education includes recreation.
Why should we not claim some
of the prestige which education
enjoys? we need to align some
great personage who is identi-
fied with the education move-
ment with our own movement, a
person such as Dr. Jacks. This

proclaimed in this country,
Thomas Jefferson said, ‘We
also acclaim respect for universal education,’
thereby acknowledging education as one of the
fundamental needs of society.

“Education has prestige because it is not gen-
erally subject to the political control of certain
groups. This prestige has been acquired largely
because education has set up independent sources
of finance and income and because it has made
assignments free from political influence. If we
can do these two things for recreation we will not
be under obligations to others and can afford to
act independently. To a certain extent this is
already true in some communities. In Los An-
geles, for instance, the Board of Education, be-
cause of the mill tax, is free from quarreling over
money and support and can therefore afford to
have its own ideas and formulate its own program
without unwelcome pressure from the outside.
When the selection of recreation workers is based
on Some valid plan like civil service, when it is
properly administered, politicians, called upon to

face these requirements, cannot be nearly so de-
manding.

will help the public see the re-
lationship and values better.
Formerly, play was frowned upon. One of the
greatest reasons why it is not at the present time
is because educators interpreted play in terms
of education so that the layman might understand
it better. We must think and talk in terms of
education so that recreation may some day enjoy
the unlimited prestige which education does. But
we have reason to be proud today, for when offi-
cials such as President Hoover say recreation is
of fundamental importance to the welfare of the
nation, recreation is coming to enjoy real pres-
tige.”

Activities with Carry-Over Value

HE discussion of the question, “How can rec-

reation systems encourage participation in
activities with carry-over values?” was opened by
John C. Kieffer, Board of Education, Philadel-
phia, who pointed out that one of the primary
factors in'vencouraging participation in activi-
ties which have carry-over values is the care-
ful selection of activities. Physical education
today is teaching skills which make possible par-

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 577

ticipation in activities which can be carried on in
adult life. This teaching of skills is taking the
place of the old formalized programs of gym-
nastics. In addition to offering opportunities
for the development of physical skills, how-
ever, schools and playgrounds must also give the
chance for the development of skills in arts.

Before formulating a program of activities, it
is important that the needs of the group be studied.
There are a great many activities in which adults
might be participating today had they had the
chance to develop some little skill in them when
they were younger. In approaching many people
it may be necessary to offer first the activities
which are the most obviously interesting to the
group, whatever their carry-over values may be.
Often, however, an interest in an activity is devel-
oped merely by exposing a person to it. For that
reason a program must be varied and rich in op—
portunities.

, Wise communities provide facilities
for wholesome leisure activities in libra-
riesl museumsl parksI playtields, audito-
riums and art galleries. In past years the
enjoyment of these advantages was de-
nied to our rural population. but the day
of good roads has done much to eliminate
distances. and rural communities as well
as the more populous centers may be
welded into one larger community in
which all may have a share in wholesome
enjoyment and recreation."—Bertram E.
PackardI Commissioner of Education.

The Approach to Groups

The approach to a group
should be one which will not
only capture interest but
which is subtle besides. To
participants, the primary ob—
jective is most often the fun
of doing something. To
leaders it should be this plus
something more, the some—
thing which will carry over.
In the past recreation activi-
ties have smacked too much of time passing and
novelty. It is true that activities are valuable
just because they do satisfy the individual who is
participating. But with the scope of activities as
large and varied as it is, there is no reason why
activities cannot be chosen which will be not only
momentarily satisfying and bring joy to the per-
son taking part in them, but will also give him
something which he can carry away with him.
One of the best examples of the need for activi-
ties with carry—over values is the man today who
is thrown out of employment with no enjoyable
hobby. It is tragic to see hundreds of these men
wandering about aimlessly not knowing what to
do to pass their time.

In approaching groups it is important that a
leader overcome the idea that there is something
paternalistic in his attitude. There are still a

great many people who hesitate because they feel
that taking part in activities promoted in com—
munity centers is destructive to their feeling of

State of Maine.

self-sufhciency.

If schools and playgrounds develop the funda-
mental skills in activities which can be carried on
through life, recreation leaders must provide the
opportunity for the expression of these skills. To
the foreign born, however, to those who have not
had a public school background, and to those who
have notlearned the necessary skills, it will be
necessary to build from the bottom up.

During the last year in Philadelphia the unem—
ployment situation made possible and necessary
the expansion of the adult prOgram of leisure time
activity. The response to cultural activities of-
fered was most surprising. The present unem-
ployment situation provides a real opportunity for
leaders who will make the most of it. Its real
challenge is in the selection of activities which
will afford something more to those taking part

than just momentary entertainment.

One of the members of the
group said'he believed that
carry—over v a l u e s existed
mostly in the mind, that it
was difficult to predict what
the carry-over value of any
activity would be and that,
therefore, the really impor-
tant objective was the selec-
tion of activities which were -
pleasurable to the participant.
Mr. Hjelte agreed with him
and cited several instances of
play activities which gave rise
to carry—over activities in no way planned for by
the leaders. He believed it was more important
to provide broad, rich programs and to let carry-
over values take care of themselves. Mr. Kieffer
agreed that this would be ideal but said that the
lack of really good leaders who could be depended
upon to furnish such programs made it necessary
to stress the importance of activities which would
carry over.

Securing Appropriations

“IN abnormal times such as we 'are experi-
encing at present when budgets are being
slashed in the interest of economy,” said Harold
Q. White, Superintendent of Recreation at
Mount Vernon, New York, “the question of
whether a mill tax or a direct appropriation is the
better method of financing recreation systems
takes on an added significance.” Thus the im-
portant subject of support for the recreation, pro-
gram was the first to be considered at the‘ two

578 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

sessions for smaller communities.

Mr. White pointed out that many factors con-
tribute to the success or failure of either method
—the setup of the system and its facilities; the
probability of acquiring additional facilities; the
attitude of the public and the politician toward
recreation in general; the type of program, and
the amount of money necessary to meet certain
fixed costs not included in the promotion of the
program prOper.

Among the advantages of the mill tax are the
following: the fact that an executive knows just
about how much his apprOpriation will amount
to each year regardless of economic measures;
that it is almost always possible for him to allo-
cate the amount as he sees fit, thus making it pos-
sible in some ways to plan years ahead with more
certainty than under the direct appropriation
method.

Against the mill tax it is argued that it does
not provide for adequate expansion in a rapidly
growing program; that while it may be sufficient
to meet the needs of a system when it is first put
into effect, in time the system will be handicapped
by lack of funds; that is very difficult to change
the minimum or maximum amount of the tax
when it once goes into effect, and that political
leaders are often loathe to tie up any considerable
portion of the yearly budgets in appropriations
that they cannot control and therefore if they do
grant it, they are more than likely to make it low.

Advantages of the direct appropriation method
are that it permits the appropriation of funds to
take care of any program provided the appro-
priating bodies can be convinced of the need;
that it allows for both capital improvement and
the acquisition of new facilities and the funds to
supervise the same, and that it enables an execu-
tive to experiment more freely with new forms
of activity. From the standpoint of the politician
it makes the recreation system justify its requests
before they are granted. Their opposition to the
mill tax is based largely on the argument that an
assured tax might tend to reduce initiative on the
part of the executive inasmuch as he would be
more or less independent of appropriating bodies.

The disadvantages quoted for direct appropri-
ation are that the uncertainty of the amount of
appropriation makes it impossible to plan the pro-
gram ahead for a number of years with any cer-
tainty. and that as the recreation department is
usually the youngest member of the municipal
family it does not always secure the consideration
it merits from appropriating bodies. It was also

stated that budgets are usually presented in code
form—so much for salaries, so much for equip-
ment——and it is not unusual for the budget com-
mittee to cut the budget in places where it can be
least afforded. This is said to lead to budget
padding to overcome such cuts.

Mr. \Vhite pointed out the importance of study-
ing closely local conditions to determine the effect

any change will have on the system five or ten
years hence.

Following Mr. \Vhite’s discussion the question
was asked, “which method of raising money is
now most commonly in use ?” It was found that
in the majority of the cities represented money is
secured by direct appropriation.

As the result of the discussion the following
summary was agreed upon as representing the con—
sensus of Opinion of the group present: The dis-
advantages of raising money by direct appropri-
ation are first, that the part played by politics is
very great; second, that an executive is unable to
plan a program for a long time ahead; third, that
a depression such as the present one can seriously

endanger budgets.

The advantages of a special levy are first. that
the part played by politics is minimized; second,
it allows executives to plan programs for a long
time. The disadvantages, however, are first, the
councilmen and heads of municipal departments
are more likely to be alienated; second, in states
where a special levy must be voted every five
years, as in Ohio, there is a danger that the time
for voting will not be opportune and the situation
might, therefore, be most embarrassing; third,
when considering asking for a vote on a special
levy it is important to remember that if the vote
is lost it will be more difficult to start a program
than if the question were never brought before the
public; fourth, a special levy allows much less
elasticity than does the direct appropriation; fifth,
in some states, even though the money is raised
by a special levy, politics is not eliminated because
council must pass on expenditures. It is impor-
tant, therefore, that if money is raised by special
levy the recreation department should operate as
an independent taxing body.

Record Keeping

IN discussing the question, “Is a uniform plan

of keeping records for all cities of the country
so there may be a basis of comparison possible or
beneficial?” Philip LeBoutillier, Superintendent of
Recreation in Irvington, New Jersey, pointed out
that with increased appropriations for public rec-

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 579

reation, with a great deal of research under way
and searching questions being asked, community
leaders are seeking not merely knowledge of the
results of the recreation executives’ work but
knowledge concerning the efficiency of the in-
dividual system. It is, therefore, important for
recreation executives to keep their records in such
a way that the desired information will be avail-
able.

Wise and unwise, correct and incorrect con-
clusions are made concerning the work of the
systems of various communities. Non-uniform
standards of comparison based entirely on the
keeping of an individual system may create wrong
impressions when the individual, in lieu of a uni-
form system of record keeping and rating, judges
the local work by his own reactions. Compla-
cency and self-satisfaction are evils sometimes as-
sociated with an inferior system that lacks a basis
of comparison with work of other cities.

The recreation system is not subject to the in-
centive of competition. There is lacking “that
constant incentive to efficiency which results in
increased accomplishment and which needs to be
introduced artificially into our work.” A uniform
system of record keeping in comparison does not
mean the systemizing and organizing of the work
to the last degree of stereotyped conformity, and
to the detriment of freedom. It does mean tan-
gible encouragement of the things which help a
community to deve10p initiative and grow in its
own way. A comparison of uniform records
would be beneficial in making possible a basis for
the various systems to use in checking on them-
selves and on the general recreational life of their
communities. Any system of record keeping
should show the registration, participation, at-
tendance, and spectator and audience attendance
for each program activity. The system should
enable the executive to determine the number of
boys and girls of any given age participating in the
program as well as the participation record of
every individual. Staff personnel records with
provision for notations concerning additional
study undertaken and similar facts, are important.
Record keeping of buildings and grounds should
indicate the number, the geOgraphical location,
size, accommodations, improvements, staff, and
similar facts. .

The adOption of a uniform system of hnance
record keeping would be valuable. The advisa-
bility of a comparison of actual receipts and ex-
penditures, however, seems doubtful. Land val-
ues, building costs, labor, maintenance and other

costs vary considerably. A basis of comparison,
therefore, might be the percentage of income ex-
pended for personnel, maintenance and other pur-
poses.

A rating system for 'recreation departments
seems to be a future probability. A uniform sys-
tem of record keeping would, therefore, be essen-
tial. Suchga system should not place an undue
amount of work on the clerical force and must
be concerned only with facts that every reSpon-
sible executive needs in administering his pro-
gram.

In commenting on Mr. LeBoutillier’s state-
ments, David D. Hicks, Superintendent of Rec-
reation in Parkersburg, West Virginia, said he
believed it essential to have some uniform method
of comparison and cited as an example one in-
stance in which he wanted for publicity purposes
to compare the playground attendance of a neigh-
boring community with his own. In his commu-
nity the attendance Figures were so much greater

than the population it was impossible to compare
them.

Arthur P. Eckley, of Two Rivers, Wisconsin,
suggested that the problem was bigger than a
comparison of budgets and attendance taking and
wondered whether it would be too much of a task
to attempt to measure services given so that rec-
reation might successfully compete with other
organizations attempting to carry on similar pro—
grams. So many organizations are making asser-
tions about reaching the underprivileged boy and
meeting the needs of delinquents that he believed
the recreation department might well adopt such a
slogan as “Keep the Normal Boy Normal.” Be—
cause of his interest in this problem he has been
keeping figures for the past five years through
which he liOpes to measure individual growth and
the contribution that recreation makes to it.

Small Towns and Adult Recreation

THERE is greater enthusiasm in a small com—
munity than in a larger one over adult rec—
reation, said W. J. Sandford, of the Community
Recreation Association of Dalton, Mass. The
whole town will turn out for baseball; everyone
will participate in winter sports. In small com-
munities most of the population will take advan-
tage of social recreation and of community cele-
brations. There is as much participation propor-
tionately, Mr. Sandford believes, in orchestras and
similar groups, as in large communities. Dancing
for younger adults is just as popular. The atti-
tude of the small town toward recreation has

580 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

changed very materially in the last few years.

Adult recreation is meeting with encouraging
progress in Salisbury, Connecticut, which is com-
posed of several small communities. Wealthy
citizens have provided a golf course and other fa-
cilities, and there are bowling and basketball
leagues and clubs of various kinds. W. R. Hem-
merly, Director of Recreation in Salisbury, has
nevertheless found that it is not always easy to
get adults into active forms of recreation. They
like to come to watch the games but they do not
want it overdone. There is danger in having too
many activities. An adult’s interest is based to a
large degree on the amount of skill he has. As
we develop leisure time skills, interest in activities
increases. Much depends on the approach. It is
usually wiser, someone suggested, to start the
program with the physical activities which people
understand rather than with the cultural.

Last summer Bloomfield, New Jersey, held
community nights on the playgrounds to which
parents were invited. Fathers came out and
joined the games, while mothers sat around. “If
you can get adults started,” said C. A. Emmons
in charge of the Bloomfield program, “they will
continue to come.”

Cultural Activities in Small Towns
“ S the public supporting cultural activities in
the smaller towns and is there the same de-
mand for these activities in smaller communities ?”
Sylvester McCauley, Director of Recreation in
Dubuque, Iowa, answered the question by telling
of music week in his community which has grown
to such proportions that when the city was faced
with the necessity of cutting budgets it considered
the possibility of eliminating the Recreation De-
partment and of continuing only music week ac-
tivities. This shows how sold the city is on this
celebration. From it has grown a Civic Choral
Club for which the Recreation Department now
serves as a clearing house. Dubuque also has a
Civic Music Association with a membership of
five hundred which brings to the city each year
renowned artists in the music work. In addition,
the city boasts of an Artists’ Association of six
hundred members which brings each year a good
art exhibit through the courtesy of the public
library. The expenses incident to this exhibit are

taken care of by membership dues of only one
dollar a year.

Ruth Sherburne, Glens Falls, New York, re-
ported that the following cultural activities are
being carried on in her community: a string en-
semble which has developed into a symphony or-

chestra; a community concert course for which
the price of a series of recitals is five dollars; a
Dramatic Club, now in its fifth year, which is suc-
cessful enough to engage a professional director
this year and which presents three plays each sea-
son, the charge for a season ticket being $1.25; an
annual flower show as a climax to the activities
of the Gardening Club, and an informal Social
Club for young peeple which has developed into
a lively discussion group.

Mr. Eckley of Two Rivers said that there was
no question that there is a demand in small com-
munities for cultural activities but that very often
small communities were too prone to omit them
because in general they cost more than do physical
activities. He asked what the general opinion
was concerning charging for cultural activities.
Miss Sherburne answered that she believed that
fees should be levied for adult activities but they
should be kept so low that these activities would
be within the reach of all people.

In a vote taken at the end of the session the
group agreed that the policy of determining pro-
gram content entirely by per capita cost was Very
narrow and that all small communities should pro-
mote cultural as well as physical activities in spite
of the greater cost involved.

One executive reported that 90 per cent. of his
program in a small community is for adults, most
of which is self-supporting. Bowling has been
particularly popular. The groups using the facili-
ties pay small fees—$1.00 membership in a lawn
bowling club; $10 entry fees for the baseball
teams, and similar charges for other activities.
The cricket club buys its own equipment. An-
other executive found that the system of charges
he 'had established resulted in a smaller attend-
ance. When the charges for tennis were re-
nioved, participation increased 300 per cent.

Standards of Leadership

OW to improve the standard of recreation

superintendents as regards morals, training
and general fitness for their positions was a prob-
lem considered by, the small community group.
As the first essential, good pe0ple must be sel-
ected. H. G. Danford, of Lima, Ohio, stated it
is the responsibility of recreation executives to
be constantly on the lookout for leaders among
the young pe0ple on the playgrounds and to in-
fluence them to make recreation their profession.
In Cleveland Heights, Ohio, “outstanding high
school students serve on the playgrounds as vol-
unteers and are given training. Courses in rec-

(Continued on page 592)

Los Angeles Plans for the International

Congress

Since the Toronto Con-
gress a complete program of
events for the Xth Olympiad
and ticket information to-
gether with season ticket
applications have been is-

sued. The Los Angeles De-

Recreation has given wide

, gagy Harry Lamport

President of Los Angeles
Department of Playground and Recreation

International Recreation Congress at Los Angeles, and the

li’arimenJr °I Playground and TEN months from this time we shall be in the midst of the

distribution to this informa-
tion among recreation work-
ers. lf.-howeverI there are any
interested in the International
Recreation Congress who
have not received this mate-
rialI copies may be secured
from the Los Angeles De-
partment of Playground and
Recreation. City HallI or
from the National Recreation '
Association.

time is not far off. Plans have already been made and we
in Los Angeles shall do our best to provide you with recreation as
well as with a trip of educational value through Southern Cali-
fornia. The Congress will be under the auspices not only of the
City of Los Angeles, but of Los Angeles County as well, and we
may try some innovations.
have more tours than are usually the practice and through these
trips you will be able to see what Southern California, and Los
Angeles in particular, have to offer in the line of playgrounds and
recreation centers. At the same time you will have a pretty good

We are planning, for example, to

bird’s-eye view of the city and of Southern California.

In a certain sense Southern California is like
a huge park with the ocean on one side and the
mountains on the other. Some of the mountains
reach to heights often thousand feet, with valleys,
unlike those of the East and Middlewest, made
green by the hand of man and by the act of God,
through water. Southern California needs water
and votes money constantly for its development.
Just a week or so ago the Metropolitan district of
Southern California and other Southern Cali-
fornia cities voted $220,000 for an aqueduct from
the Colorado River just below the Boulder Dam.

I believe that we have plenty to offer you in this
trip to sunny California which will make it worth
while. The usual entertainment program of this
Congress will be in effect and through the week,
in addition to the sessions, there will be tours
planned to points that will introduce you to
Southern California as well as show you our
playground areas.

The Recreation Congress will begin on the
23rd of July and will close the 29th. The
Olympic Games will start on the following
day. The Olympiad opens with the track
events and the most popular activities of the
Olympic Games will come the first four days
so that Congress delegates will be able to see
them. Through the Olympic Games head-

quarters we have been holding under option, al-
though we cannot hold the option much longer
than December 1st, the seats for Congress dele—
gates for the opening day’s events. We have also
reserved five hundred seats which are termed “sea-
son seats.” I am not sure that people will be able
to buy tickets for each day’s events. I am under
the impression that the present plan is to have
only season tickets which, I believe, will cost $22
for the entire week. This includes wrestling,
swimming and similar events.

As I understand it, trips are being planned for
those who come from the East and Middlewest by
rail or stop at various cities. Chicago, Denver,
Salt Lake City, Oakland and San Francisco, are
planning to entertain travelers on their way to Los

Angeles. That, too, will be worth keeping in
mind.

T. E. RiversI Administrative Secretary of the Inter-
national Recreation Congress of the N. R. A.. speak-
ing further of the tours en route. stated that it is
hoped to have a special train run across the conti-
nent. He urged the importance of giving prompt
attention to any information sent out regarding the
tours and of making reservations at an early date at

the headquarters hotel at Los Angeles. the Hotel
Biltmore.

581

582 IN MEMORY OF THOMAS A. EDISON

In Memory of Thomas A. Edison

 

Courtesy Boy Scouts of America

LL recreation workers, professional and
volunteer, unite in the deepest sympathy to
Mrs. Thomas A. Edison. We have all
shared the interest of all the American people in
Mr. Edison. His inventions have done so much
to give added free time to the American people
so that they could enjoy more and better music,
drama, art, handcraft, games, athletics, and all
forms of recreation. So in a very special way
Thomas A. Edison made a great contribution to
the leisure time recreation movement not only in
the United States, but in the world.

Men and women in the recreation movement
have :felt closer to Thomas A. Edison and have
been more keenly interested in his experiments
because for so many years no woman has been
more outstanding than Mrs. Thomas A. Edison
in her belief in the recreation movement, her in-
terest in building it up, her readiness to work hard
for it. At the Recreation Congresses Mrs. Edi-
son’s evident joy and satisfaction in all that was
being done to build up more satisfying living
made her beloved of all who saw her, and now
in this time of sorrow for her all men and women
interested in recreation throughout the world feel
a special bond of sympathy and wish it were in
their power to help.

We have always known that Mrs. Edison has
placed first looking after Mr. Edison. Devoted as
she is to the national recreation movement, she
would allow nothing to interfere with her doing
everything possible for her husband and for the
maintenance of their home life. No matter how

irregular were Mr. Edison’s working hours, she
never neglected anything which would administer
to his comfort and she seemed to sense just what

he needed.

Many times Mrs. Edison, speaking of her
father, Lewis Miller, and his great interest in
Chautauqua, of which he was one of the founders,
has said that as Chautauqua was her father’s great
interest, so the National Recreation Association
was her great interest and she wanted to do all
that she could to build it up. At Board meetings
and in private conferences these many years her
great contribution has been her understanding of
men, women, and children, an understanding of
the heart which made her sense just what would
be most helpful to them.

Several times Mrs. Thomas A. Edison has
opened up her own home for a neighborhood play
evening, and old and young of three generations
have been happy in the age-old games, Mr. Edi-
son joining with others in playing “Drop the
Handkerchief.” Mrs. Edison has always been
particularly sympathetic with the National Rec-
reation Association’s program for encouraging
home play because she herself has always been so
essentially a home woman.

Once when Vermont had been devastated by
floods and the women’s clubs were asking the
Board of Directors of the National Recreation
Association to help them try to do something to
lift the gloom through music, it was hard to vis-
ualize just how the people who had been through
this flood could be helped in the way suggested.
Mrs. Edison was the one to urge that since an
invitation had come from Vermont people, we
try to help the fathers and the mothers to set
out to brighten Christmas time for their children
by the singing of Christmas Carols centering the
whole music program on the thought of making
the Christmas season as joyous as could be for
the children even with so many signs of destruc-
tion all about them. Perhaps no two activities
have made greater appeal to Mrs. Edison than
music and gardening. Just a few weeks ago
Dr. Lawrence P. Jacks, great world philosopher
and educational leader from England, mentioned
these two activities as perhaps as fundamental as
any in meeting deep human needs.

The world owes a debt of gratitude to Thomas
A‘. Edison for his immeasurable contribution to
the progress of civilization. To Mrs. Edison the
leisure time movement is deeply indebted for her
sympathetic understanding of human needs.

     

. *M
Memorial Divinghrrower, Des Moines

The Long Island State
P a r k Commission h a 5
opened on the south shore
of Long Island a vast bath-
ing resort known as “Jones Beach.” The total
investment of the State of New York in this
beach, the Causeway, Ocean Boulevard and the
channel system is close to $10,000,000. The park-
ing fields alone cost $600,000; the annual lighting
bill at the beach amounts to $78,000; the garbage
diSposal costs are $7,500; the boardwalk costs
$15,000 a year to maintain and, finally, there is
the cost of employing 735 workers.

Jones Beach has already attained a notable
standing. There are few places like it.

A Vast
Beach Project

Since 1910, the Play-
ground and Recreation As—
sociation of Des Moines,
Iowa, has operated the
Camp Dodge swimming pool located in that city
but owned by the United States Government.
Early in August the pool was the scene of a

In Honor of
Margaret McKee

World

at
Play

memorial service in honor of Margaret McKee,
formerly superintendent of recreation, who died
in June. At that time Mr. T. P. Eslick of the
Playground Commission presented to the State of
Iowa a diving tower erected in Miss McKee’s
memory and bearing the inscription on a bronze
tablet, “In Appreciation of Margaret Ann McKee.
Erected by the Des Moines Playground and Rec-
reation Association, July, 1931.” The tower, 20
feet high, is equipped with three diving boards,
one at the t0p and two at a 14 foot elevation.
The pool measures 150 feet by 325 feet.

Mr. Charles W. Garfield,
banker and civic leader of
Grand Rapids, Michigan,
with Mrs. Garfield has
given the city three lots covering approximately
120 by 125 feet for small children’s playgrounds.

“In making the gift,” said Mr. Garfield, “we
have had in mind the immediate service which
can be rendered the neighborhood and so it seems
to us that for the little children the most simple
and inexpensive methods of play should be pro-
vided by the city. There is nothing connected with'
the progress made by our city that has been so
great a source of pride to me as the rapid and
successful growth of the playground movement.
In adding this implement the donors desire to

express their love for Grand Rapids and their
faith in its future.”

 

A Gift to
Grand Rapids

 

'w' . .-.

 

By next spring Galves-
A New Recreation ton, Texas, will have a new
Park for Galveston "IS-hole municipal golf
course, the first unit of a
city-county recreational park which will cover
about 200 acres fronting on Offats Bayou. By
the end of next summer part of the park itself
will be improved and ready .for use. Roads and
bridle paths will be built first. Walks, athletic
fields and playgrounds will be added later. Plans
call for a golf course, athletic fields and play-
grounds and facilities for boating, fishing and
swimming. At the east end of the park will be a

 

'large athletic field and stadium. On the west

583

584

WORLD AT PLAY

“AThe constant . prog—

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest—
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." AAA

AMHere you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

 

m

SOUTHEIQN

W

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

 

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

side there will be a playground for women and
older girls, while to the north of the central lake,
around which the park proper will be laid out,
there will be separate boys’ and girls’ playgrounds,
basketball courts and tennis courts. The cost of
the park and golf course, which will range from
$200,000 to $250,000, will be met by part of the
proceeds from a $300,000 bond issue voted in

1929.

Czechoslovakia—A Pioneer in Puppetry.—
Czechoslovakia is a pioneer in puppetry and pup-
pet education. There are as many as 3,200
marionette theatres in the country and statistics
show that in 1929. 24,000 performances were
given attended by 2,300,000 people. The Masaryk
Institute for Popular Education has encouraged
the deveIOpment of puppet theatres in many dif—
ferent ways but mainly through the publication
“Manuel de Guignol” which gives practical in-
struction to amateurs in all puppetry matters. and
also by arranging meetings and giving demonstra—
tions of‘ the most practical methods of puppet
theatre constructiOn. The institute is also pub-
lishing books on stage decorations and scenery.
There are nearly 1,300 Czechish puppet plays,
offering a wide choice.

In May, 1929, on the occasion of the Interna-
tional exhibition of marionettes held at Prague,
an International association was formed for the
purpose of bringing together all those interested
in the marionette stage for educational as well as
recreational purposes. It is called The Interna-
tional Union of Marionettes.

Only Families With Children Need Apply!
—An interesting housing experiment is being car—
ried on in the model children’s village near Stras-
bourg, France, according to the New York Sun.
Instead of families with children not being con—
sidered desirable as tenants, the more children
they have the easier it is for them to rent a house,
and unless a family grows from time to time the
tenants are asked to move. The village was built
to combat race suicide and only young married
couples pledged to rear large families are per—
mitted to occupy the charming little homes. The
village was constructed by the Ungemach Bonbon
factory, which is putting its war profits into this
experiment. Not only is the village a model in
building and other physical factors, but advanced
ideals in education and child rearing are carried
out by trained supervisors. There is play with
leadership, for a trained kindergartner is in charge

Please mention RECREATION when writing adVCTt‘SCTS

AMONG OUR FOLKS 585

of the children’s play life. In 1950 the village
will become the property of the municipality.

In G1asgow.—-——Glasgow, Scotland, has over a
hundred small playgrounds and about thirty-five
parks where recreation activities are maintained
for adults as well as children. The work is under
the direction of the municipal Park Department.

Story Hours to Reveal Old World Treas-
ures.——The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
York City, is offering a series of story hours for
boys and girls each Saturday and Sunday from
October, 1931, to May, 1932. A talk illustrated by
lantern slides and objects from the galleries, leads
to the 'story, giving an appropriate setting. Then
follows the story itself and afterward pictures of
the treasures to be found in the galleries. The
stories are planned to entertain, to make real the
people of different countries with their history,
literature and art, and to lead to an enjoyment
of the museum’s galleries and the beauties every-
where.

A Flag of All Nations Scrap Book Contest.
——--An interesting feature of the summer program
in Dalton, Massachusetts, was a Flag of All Na-
tions scrap book contest. The compiling of the
books represented much work and study. Under
the heading of each country was shown a colored
picture of its flag, then a list of important holi-
days, the chief industry, the capital, and the popu-
lation. A requirement was that the books must
have been the entrants’ own work. Books were
judged on neatness, originality and correctness, as
well as on the number of countries represented.

A Gift to Hamilton, Canada—Valley Farm,
where for years thorough-bred horses were raised
by the late \Villiam Hendrie, has been donated to
the city by George M. Hendrie in memory of
his four brothers and his father. No restriction
was imposed by Mr. Hendrie in making this gift
of 120 acres except that it be maintained in per-
petuity as a park for the use of the general public
and that it be known as the “Hendrie Park.”

San Diego County, California, to Invest
$75,000 for Parks.——The San Diego County
supervisors have promised a budget appropriation
of $75,000 for the state-county park purposes
plus a tentative allocation of $10,000 to permit
state park development of the Mission Bay area.
The $25,000 for the Palomar site will be spent

Among Our Folks

Miss Emma H. Howe, for many years a mem-
ber of the-staff of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, has resigned to become executive secretary
of the Neighborhood Guild, Peace Dale, Rhode
Island.

Mr.  M, Pollard, who for a number of years
was associated with Mr. E. T. Attwell on the staff
of the National Recreation Association in pro-
moting recreation for negroes, has become director
of the Niagara Falls Community Center, Niagara
Falls, New York.

Mr. Ben Rumpeltes has resigned his position
as Director of Recreation in Moorestown, New
Jersey, in order to take up postgraduate work at
Columbia University. The position in Moores-
town has been filled by the appointment of Mr.
Robert L. King, of Nashville, Tennessee.

Mr. Edward Sordelet has been appointed Di-
rector of Recreation at Berwyn, Illinois, to fill the
vacancy created by the resignation of Mr. W. F.
Pfuderer, Jr.

Mr. E. A. Pritchard, formerly in charge of
recreation at Niagara Falls, New York, has ac;
cepted a position on the faculty of the Depart-
ment of Physical Education, New York Univer-
sity.

 

only if private subscription raises $50,000 in addi-
tion, the state having agreed to put $75,000 into
buying this site. The $150,000 thus costs the tax-
payers only $25,000. The $50,000 for the Silver
Strand will be matched by an equal sum from the
state, allocating to San Diego a $100,000 park site
at a cost to the peOple of half that sum. For a
total expenditure of $75,000 San Diego County
will obtain two magnificent park sites of which the
total cost in bare land is $250,000. It secures for
future citizens land which would be worth many
times that amount in normal times and it assures
the development in the county, entirely at state
expense, of at least two parks equal to the best the
state can offer.

Appalachian Trail Conference.—One hun-
dred and seventy-five registered delegates attended
the fifth annual Appalachian Trail Conference
held June 12th, 13th and 14th at Gatlinburg,
Tennessee, in the great smoky mountains. Four-
teen different states were represented. After ten
years it was reported the trail project is almost
completed. Sixty per cent of the trail is marked
and trail data are available.

586 WORLD AT PLAY

A Ten Year Plan.—The Civic Improvement
Committee (Committee of One Thousand) of
Kansas City, Missouri, has outlined a ten year
plan for public improvements. It is proposed
that $2,750,000 be spent for playgrounds, parks
and boulevard improvements.

The Annual Report From Minneapolis.—
The forty—eighth annual report of the Board of
Park Commissioners of Minneapolis, Minnesota,
has appeared. Many attractive illustrations and
the form in which the report is issued, as well as
the interesting facts presented about the work of
the Park Department and the Division of Rec-
reation, make it a notable publication.

An Additional Gift to Scranton, Pennsyl;
vania.—Weston Field, the Splendid community

center presented some years ago to Scranton by
Mr. C. S. Weston and his sister, Mrs. Frank M.

Bird, has received a further bequest of $50,000
through the will of Mrs. Bird, who died on Octo-
ber 14th. The money is to be used for some
permanent improvement.

A County“ Studies Itself.—Los Angeles
County, California, has recently been the subject
of a recreation study under the direction of a com-
mittee of eight “to determine whether the present
service is economically, efficiently and democrati-
cally planned and administered.”

Los Angeles County directly operates eight rec-
reational areas with a total acreage of 6,193 with
land valued at $1,932,112 and improvements of
$517,669. The county areas include two magni—
ficent mountain playgrounds, four beaches, and a
number of valley areas. In addition to the service
of Los Angeles County and the City of Los An—
geles with its investment in parks of over $39,-
000,000, there are 21 cities in the county operating
parks with more than 5,000 acres of open spaces.

It was felt that as factors in developing a ten
year plan for the county there should be further
studies, a balanced program of recreational ac-
tivities under leadership should be developed, and
there should be early action looking toward the
coordination of existing public recreation ser-
vices in the county.

Child Labor Day.——-Child Labor Day in 1932
will be celebrated on January 23rd in synagogues;
on January 24th in Sabbath schools and churches;
and on January 27th in schools, colleges and other
organizations. The observance of this day affords

an opportunity to bring before the public the
facts about industrial accidents and other dangers
to children and to initiate programs of public edu-
cation culminating in legislative enactments for
the protection of children. Further information
regarding the day may be secured'from the Na-
tional Child Labor Committee, 331 Fourth
Avenue, New York City, which offers programs,
literature and posters for use on Child Labor
Sunday. '

Education and Leisure
(Continued from page 541)

among us who would copy the vices of the older
civilizations rather than their virtues. They
would transplant to American soil the morbidity
of decadent civilizations with reference to sex and
romance. They would be willing to accept for
our American life the narcotic and smoking habits
that have retarded civilizations elsewhere. They
would be willing to spread the use of liquor even
among the women and children.

There are those who would bring back gam-
bling in all its devastating forms as a legalized
occupation and business. They would do all these
devitalizing things which enslave the human race
in the name of personal liberty and individual
freedom. What a shallow practice to superim-
pose upon the standardizing effects of a machine
civilization the powerful standardizing influence
of morbidity, narcotics and gamblng! What
blindness to copy these vices and to miss the ripe
and mellow virtues of these older civilizations—
their love of home and family, their joy in play,
their loyalty to neighborhood, their love of beauty
and companionship. If our increasing travel in
foreign places does not bring back to America
some of these finer things then travel is worse
than useless.

For the use of leisure we have at hand the most
marvelous resources. Our vast and wonderful
continent is in many ways still largely unde-
veloped. New ways of travel bring us nearer
and nearer our great parks and natural wonders.
The art of printing has developed until no one is
too poor to enjoy the fruits of the printed word.
The talkie has made available action and vibrant
words so that persons of other places and other
times seem closer than ever before. The radio
brings instantly to our homes the voices, and
through television the faces, of the central figures
of these miraculous times. These forces for good,
for the strengthening and enrichment of human

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 587

life are so mighty that it is now possible within
a single decade to lift the human race to a degree
which would have required centuries in times past,
and by the same token these new forces in the
hands of the exploiter make it possible to degrade
the human race in a single generation in a way
that would have required centuries at other times
in history. '

The call for civic leadership and statesmanship,
the call for religious leadership, for educational
leadership, and for men and women who are ready
to champion the glory of an enriched human life
has never been so clear as now and the field of
leisure is one of the great fields in which this

new leadership will find its service and its satis-
faction.‘

What a Modern Park

Department Does

(Continued from page 546)
the parks well stocked with fish, summer camps,
and many other. facilities. It organizes and con-
ducts civic celebrations, municipal athletic leagues
and tournaments, field days, play festivals, winter
carnivals, water sports and carnivals, horse shows,
flower shows and other special events.

In its three-fold capacity of a cultural-educa-
tional-recreational institution it cooperates with
many individuals, organizations and institutions
in a great variety of ways.

In emphasizing the active feature of the services
of the modern park department one should not
forget the tremendously important services it ren-
ders in relation to the fundamental biologic wel-
fare of the people in passive and semi-active ways.
The volume of use of modern parks by the people
in passive and semi-active ways perhaps exceeds
their use in active ways. If a modern park de-
partment did no more than provide opportunities
for the people of cities to renew contact with
the soil and growing things, to secure the enor-
mous benefits of an abundance of sunlight not
vitiated by smoke and dust, of air unpolluted by
smoke, dust and noxious fumes, of opportunities
for rest and relaxation in an environment of
peace, quietness and beauty undisturbed by too
close contact with one another, it would be worth
in human welfare all and more that it costs to
acquire, develop, and maintain and operate its
properties. When to all this is added the many
activities that require the use of the large muscle
groups of the body—a need growing out of age
old habits of mankind and upon which vital and

(Continued on page 588)

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing. Articles
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

The Farmer’s Wife, August 1931

They’re Getting a Heap of Fun Out of Living, by
Carroll P. Streeter

Parks and‘iRecreation, September 1931

Mid-Summer Activities in the Union County Park

System . . . .
Fourth Annual Pac1fic Coast Miniature Aircraft

Tournament ,
National Public Links Tournament at Keller Course,

by Tom Hastings
Football .
Notes on Golf Course Starting Booth

The Parents Magazine, October 1931

Games for Hallowe’en, by Alice Crowell Hoffman
Playthings in Review, by Janet  KnOpf
Books for Boys and Girls, by Alice Dalgliesh

The American City, September 1931

Why Not a Park and Bird Sanctuary for Your Com-
munity ?, by Carl F. Pilat

Municipal Auditoriums, by Edna T rull

Extending the Season for Tennis

Milwaukee County Has Its Own Roadhouse

Scouting, October 1931
Pepping Up Our Hikes—A Nature Study Hike

Child Welfare, November 1931

Toys and the Child, by Bertha Merdian
Toys for Different Ages

Journal of Physical Education, November 1931

Increasing the Morale and Vitality of the Unem-
ployed through Physical Education Service
Some Character Values Derived from Volleyball

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, October
1931

“The Gift of Land is the Gift Eternal,” by Louis
C. Schroeder
An Intramural Organization for Girls, by Grace E.

Jones

The American City, November 1931

A 25 Year State Recreation Plan for Iowa

A New Bathouse and Restaurant near Berlin, by
Stadtbaurat wagner

Street Trees Through Civic Cooperation—Decatur,
Illinois

Freeport’s Athletic Fields and Stadium

Philadelphia’s New Auditorium

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, Novem-

ber, 1931

Playgrounds and Safety, by Albert W. Whitney
Various Systems of Physical Education—Their
Characteristics and Values, by Elmer Berry.

PAMPI—ILETS

Second Annual Report of the Monessen, Pennsylvania,
Playgrounds, 1931

Annual Report of the Board of Public Recreation, Park-
ersburg, West Virginia, 1930-1931

Annual Report of the'“Recreation Department of the
Board of Park Commissioners, Indianapolis, Indiana,

1930

A New Medium for Art Expression, by V. K. Brown,
Parks and Recreation, 327 West Jefferson Street,
Rockford, Illinois

588 GEORGE E. JOHNSON

George E. Johnson

ROFESSOR GEORGE ELLS\VORTH

JOHNSON of the Harvard University

Graduate School of Education died on
August 26th at the age of 69. Professor Johnson
was early a leader in the national playground and
recreation movement. For three summers, 1898,
1899, 1900, he conducted the Andover Play
School. As superintendent of schools he made
large use of play. His book, “Education by
Plays and Games,” had a profound influence on
the playground movement. Later Professor
Johnson was for six years superintendent of
playgrounds in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The
administration of the playground system in that

city reached a very high level under his leader-,

ship. All of the program was made thoroughly
educational. His workers were continuously
studying and working to fit themselves for more
effective service.

Professor Johnson conducted recreation courses
for two years at the New York School of Social
Work, and for sixteen years he has taught at
Harvard University. Each year Professor
Johnson found time to conduct a course at the
National Recreation School in New York City.
He has always been ready to help in connection
with recreation courses and with special recrea-
tion problems as they arose. From first to last
Professor Johnson’s main interest has ever been
play as a factor in making possible the abundant
life for men and women.

George E. Johnson never sought publicity and
received no general public recognition, yet in
America he was one of a small group including
Joseph Lee, Luther Halsey Gulick, Clark W.
Hetherington, and a few others whose thinking
profoundly influenced the whole national recrea-
tion movement. In his own personality he illus-
trated what play, recreation, art, sport can do for
rich and vital living. Unpretentious, simple
hearted, mellow, always ready to suspend judg-
ment until all the facts were in, seeing all sides
of questions, warmly human in his philosophy,
original and independent in his thinking, he was
one of the major prophets in the play—recreation
—leisure time—art of living movement.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Repoln’tslof the Westchester County Park Commission,

Present and Impending Applications to Education of
Radio and Allied Arts, National Advisory Council
on Radio in Education, 60 East 42nd Street, New York.

(Continued from page 587)

functional vigor depend, the activities that en-
large the mind, inspire the spirit and in general
create that complete harmony in life called hap-
piness, one should not hesitate to rank the modern
park department as one of the most beneficial in~
stitutions ever devised by the hand. mind and
vision of man.

The Government and Rural Life
(Continued from page 549)
and music appreciation in 1931 which anyone may
see who cares to do so.

In this paper I have not tried to cover the work
of all recreational agencies working in the entire
rural field. \Ve know the Y. M. C. A., the Boy
Scouts, the public schools, and other agencies are
doing much; but we had no way of collecting
this information. we have tried to let you see
something of what our own extension organiza-
tion about which we have first-hand information,
is doing with rural people.

In conclusion, may I say that recreation in its
broadest sense, including music appreciation, rest
for thought and introspection, pageantry and
plays, games, story-telling and folk dancing, and
everything that goes into the enjoyment and rec-
reation of men and women, boys and girls in the
open country, is increasingly a part of our public
agricultural extension program and in my own
mind is as significant for building up a fine,
wholesome, satisfying rural life as anything we
are doing. \Ve are growing into it and pushing it
as rapidly as public goodwill and educational
processes will admit. It has become a permanent
part of our extension work and a great leavening
agent for good in rural United States.

 

Recreation in Canadian Schools
(Continued from page 551)

There is a gradual appreciation, however, of the
positive educational values throughout this coun-
try. There is a growing national consciousness
of the relationship which 'exists between recrea-
tion and living. In 1929 a conference on “Edu-
cation and Leisure” was held in Vancouver, with
representatives from all Provinces. It was a huge
success and will be followed by a conference here
next year, organized again by the National Coun-
cil of Education, a very important factor in our
country, having.a direct influence. If we in Can-
ada can recognize not only strength, skill and
sweat as the outcome of recreation, if we can

TOWN PLANNING IN CANADA 589

appreciate the mental, moral and social opportu—
nities which are afforded, then we are bound to
have better supervision which will 'appreciate the
oneness of mind and body and we will safeguard
ourselves from over-specialization. It will be a
policy for all and therefore 'a fuller and more
complete contribution to the citizenship of the
future.

 

Town Planning in Canada
(Continued from page 553)

inef‘Eciency which results from making streets of
a standard width regardless of their purpose.
Present systems are quite unsuitable to an age of
motor-vehicles. In some cities all streets lead-
ing in one direction are so cut up by intersec-
tions that a motor vehicle traveling at twenty
miles an hour crosses the center of two such inter-
sections every six seconds. This is both unsatis-
factory to the motorist and a great hazard to
children on their way to school and playground.
If playgrounds are to be used and are to serve
their purpose, the approach to them must'be safe.
The future of wholesome recreation in Canada
is bound up with city planning; the present day
calls for new policies and bold methods, but the
country waits for leadership.

The Youth Movement in Germany

(Continued from page 562)

of them by or through official government chan-
nels and with Federal advisory help and money.
Even England boasts a dozen shelter houses “for
overnight ramblers” and Scotland has just created
a Youths Hostels Association under the chair-
manship of Sir John Sterling Maxwell of Glas-
gow. Some of the Scotch camping officials fear
that “the growth of the Herberg movement in
England and Scotland constitutes a danger to the
ancient pastime of rambling”; nevertheless the
movement seems destined to take hold throughout
the British Isles. The little country of Holland
already boasts thirty—seven Herbergen and, like
its German neighbor, the government at the
Hague has given its ofhcial stamp of approval by
creating the National Youth Council under the
chairmanship of a member of Parliament. The
English association is proposing “a chain of
hikers’ lodgings to stretch from Lands End to the
Orkney Islands,” and we need not be surprised
if the next five years see this accomplished.
There does not seem to be any similar activity in

_. I _.-'
l'

_ '35:“ . v ‘
 -- s not. All ‘i “fa” l -
  ~ ‘3  l  i" it"
1 V ' .'. "I .L' . r '- Wm

 

 

 

 

  
   

E.
‘37-'37 '12:: '. :é'v'i—LP- _-,  -  u
. «Itinl'mml“|’imir-
‘3“ HI.  ' .  I I l.
1-i_-. .  w" 1‘

 

 '5 lll  

' realist;

 

 

 

 

‘ 1‘ ll "'r ' 1
. J, l
_ JlE. - p

 titan

 

 

 

 

,f   
,. I'i;,v‘3§—'"_“.‘E‘?1 ' a" 
£2.  . E I

 

 

Licensed under Patents of Octo- "Junglegym" Trade Mark Regis-
ber 23. 1923. March 25, 1924 tered United States Patent Office

A Permanent
Playground

With the Junglegym No. 2 as part of r
your playground equipment you may
be sure that it will be a popular spot
with the children. This is not a
seasonable piece of apparatus—it can
be used as effectively in winter as in
summer. It requires no supervision
and is capable of handling 75 chil-

dren.

Keep the children out-of—doors
and let them benefit by the safe and

healthful exercise provided by the

Junglegym.

Playground Department

Chicopee, Mass.

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

590 THE YOUTH MOVEMENT IN GERMANY

TWELFTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE :

of the

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
February 18, 19, 20, 1932 — Baltimore, Maryland

Plans for the Twelfth Annual Conference of the Progressive Education Association
include a notable list of speakers with topics bearing on the important relation of education
to the changing social order. In addition there will be a series of Group Discussions under
competent leaders covering a wide range of practical subjects. Exhibits of children’s work
and materials helpful in teaching will feature the convention.

Reduced railroad rates will be offered to members of the Association and their fami-
lies. Nq admission fees will be charged to members. Join the Association, receive the
benefits of reduced railroad rates and free admission to the sessions. Your mem-

. bership will also entitle you to a year’s subscription to PROGRESSIVE EDUCA-
i TION and all the services of the Association.

For hotel reservations, write direct to Mr. William H. Parker, Managing Director of
the Emerson Hotel, Baltimore, Md., headquarters for the Conference.

Make hotel reservations now. Join the Association and notify us of your intention to
attend. Urge your friends to go. Send for copies of the preliminary program.

Annual membership in the Association is $3.00. Two years’ membership—$5.00.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
716 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. i

 

France or Spain as in these two countries there
exists only one shelter house comparable to the
German Herbergen and that one is located at
Etampé, sixty kilometers from Paris.

As to the probability of the Youth Movement
making itself felt in America or of our adopting
the Herberg principle in this country, these are
questions with no immediate answers in sight.
We have had for many years, and still have,
Wandervogel and Naturfreunde groups in some
of our big cities but they have made no headway
against our own hiking—camping traditions and
institutions. Nor do I think they soon will. If
some part of the German idea takes root in our
soil it will necessarily have to be adapted to the

YOUR POOL now

AMERICAN

for next season

Get ready now for next year's business.
Have your pools or playgrounds equipped
with "American" Devices which will help
assure pleasant pastimes for your patrons.
Our engineers will gladly submit plans at
no cost to you.

The new "American" catalog shows many
new devices for pools and playgrounds—at
new low prices. Send for it.

ANDERSON, INDIANA

 

PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.

psychology and temperament of American youth
and that process will so metamorphose it as to
make the original non-recognizable.

For the Fatherland these singing, playing, wan-
dering boys and girls vision a better day. To the
great task of securing for the Republic its new
place in the sun German youth is bringing cleaner,
healthier bodies, broader viewpoints and more
tolerant attitudes. Wandering to distant places,
getting better acquainted with their once strange
neighbors, bespeak better understanding and

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

RECREATION IN MONTREAL

greater 'le‘é‘.“"‘Discussions of common aims and
free interchange of ideas constitute an educative
influence that must leave its good mark on the
wandering millions of Europe’s youth. A sing-
ing, happy, healthy army of boys and girls who
have learned to play together will contribute much
to a better tomorrow.

Recreation in Montreal
(Continued from page 563)

virtue in the very large playing fields they must
be located at some distance from'the busier cen-
ters. Consequently in order to provide ~for chil-
dren in congested areas it is necessary to bring
the playgrounds to the children.

Montreal has a unique mountain park located
practically in the center of the city. It is used
a great deal in the summer but in the winter thou-
sands'of citizens as well as visitors from other
cities use the park for sleighing, skiing, skating,
toboganning, and other winter sports.

The Montreal Parks and Playgrounds Associa-
tion antedates the Public Recreation Department.
The association is an organization of citizens,
financed by citizens out of the Financial Federa-
tion, an organization composed of thirty-two so-

Recreation Workers Are Safety Workers

RECREATION programs are preventing child

accidents. Safety activities are enriching
recreation programs.

Let the Education Division of the National Safety
Council help you through its correspondence and
publications service.

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE keeps

you informed about the national accident problem
and provides a wealth of material for safety in!
struction.

$1.00 a year

$1.75 for two years

Write for a sample copy and list of other publications

EDUCATION DIVISION
NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL
ONE PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK

WHY CLAY COURTS

You too can have RED‘ or GREEN champion-
ship courts.

RUBICO RED or GREEN DRESSING

Impregnated into your present surface will give
you a fast drying resilient court the equal to
any expensive court manufactured at a very
small cost to you.

RUBICO RED or GREEN DRESSING

is shipped in 100 lb. bags anywhere with full
directions for applying.

A new RUBICO FAST DRYING
TENNIS COURT

will cost less to construct than a good clay
court and is far superior. It requires practically
no upkeep. Write for complete information.

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.

Westfield New Jersey
Phone 2-1807

Largest designers and builders of athletic fields and
tennis courts in America.

POSTER FROM
SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

591

 

592

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

TENNIS NETS

.— also .—

Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in

fact

_A_l_l Sport Ne’rs

This house has long

been headquarters

 

 

for all the above.

w. A. AUGUR

35 Fulton Street

New York

COMMUNITY SONGS

Morning Comes Early

Loch Lomond

Heave Away (Sea Shanty)

Caisson Song (American
Army Song)

0 Susanna

Londonderry Air

0n the Road to Mandalay

Volga Boatmen‘s Song

Tiritomba

HE words of sixty-one

songs will be found in
this newly revised edition
of the Community Song
Leaflet. A number of songs
of the old edition have
been replaced by some
which experience has
shown to be lastingly at-

tractive to singing groups
of all kinds. They are:

Swansea Town (Sea Shanty)

Netherlands Thanksgiving
Hymn

Dogie Song (Cowboy Song)

All Through the Night

Alouette

Alleluia

In Heavenly Love Abiding
(by Bach)

The leaflet will now be more conducive than ever to
the fun and other satisfactions of singing in homes, clubs,
playgrounds, and wherever else people gather in their

leisure time.

$1.10 per 100 copies

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

HANDICRAFT

NEW INSTRUCTION MANUAL
300 Projects —- 400 Illustrations -— Price $1.00

Sent on Approval —- Price List on Request

HANO‘CRH‘FT SPECIALTIE
LE?F35'"c’éi§Wdfo ' ,

(“OM-IO warm

 

cial agencies. Captain \Villiam Bowie is our
Executive Secretary. Last year we supervised
twelve playgrounds with thirty-eight salaried lead-
ers, most of them from the Physical Education
Department of McGill University. In a city
such as ours with dual languages—65 per cent. of
the population of 810,000 being French—we must
give attention to sections of the city where French
speaking citizens predominate. That is one of
our problems. \Ve have splendid cooperation with
city departments, although at times we work along
different lines.

Montreal once had a citizen named C. S. Camp—
bell, one of the most prominent corporation law-
yers of the city. In his will he left a certain sum
of money to establish neighborhood playgrounds
and a second fund to provide band concerts
throughout the summer. A short time ago we
opened the third of these playgrounds, which have
been turned over to the city. At that time it
was provided that the Montreal Parks and Play-
grounds Association should supervise the center
for a period of five years. \Ve plan to establish
it as a model playground as a demonstration to
the city and to other communities of what a play-
ground should be.

In closing I can only emphasize the fact that
the City of Montreal is fully awake to the need
of playgrounds, both large and small. We need
them both and we particularly need a very large
number of neighborhood playgrounds.

Policies, Plans and Problems
(Continued from page 580)

reation must be strengthened. Self-education can
never cease, and recreation executives must read
constantly not only literature in the recreation
field but sociology, psychology and civics. They
must keep abreast of world affairs, of trends in

'industry and in the economic system, and must

know why the changes which are coming about
are significant for the leisure time movement. Rec—
reation workers should attend conferences and

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS 593

  
 

is the result of Mr. Zanzig’s exhaustive
study of music conditions throughout the country,
under the auspices of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation. The author personally investigated the mu-
sical activities of numerous community groups in
over one hundred cities. Daniel -Gregory Mason,
dean of American music critics, is greatly interested
in this work and contributes a Foreword to the

book.

Mu'sic
in
American Life

By
A. D. Zanzig

'*.

 

offers a sound philosophy of amateur
music and a working guide toward ideal musical
achievement. It is a manual of practical suggestions
which will be invaluable to music teachers. recreation
leaders, school superintendents, community center
and settlement workers, church musical directors,
camp directors, and all others interested in any sort
of musical endeavor not exclusively professional in
purpose.

Price $3.50
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue I
New York City

 

 

should participate not only in recreational activi—
ties and interests in their communities, but in all
kinds of civic activities.

The suggestion was also offered that recreation
executives cooperate with the National Recreation
Association by taking graduates from the Na—
tional Recreation School and that they avail them-
selves of the correspondence course and of the
bulletin service of the N. R. A. and of the
monthly magazine, RECREATION.

Institutes, it was stated, are valuable not only
for the less experienced workers who attend them
but also for the recreation executive, since he
must educate himself while he educates his work-
ers. RuthoSherburne, of Glens Falls, New York,
urged the importance of recreation executives
working with their younger workers and helping
to give them the training and experience which
will not only make them better workers in their
present positions but will fit them for executive
positions later.

Social Dancing

I N introducing the subject of social dancing in

relation to public school recreation work, J. R.
Batchelor, of the N. R. A., spoke of the asso-

ciation of the dance with religious ceremonies

Diamond OfIicial
Pitching Shoes

Now is the time to ge*
well stocked in pitching
horseshoe equipment. In-
door courts are easily in-
stalled and highly popular
where temperatures are
beginning to drop. The
Diamond line of shoes
and accessories is com-
plete from score pads to
oii’icial shoes. Write for
information.

DIAMON

Eagle Ringer
Pitching Shoes

The Eagle Ringer is an
ofiicial shoe of extra fine
quality. The shape is de-
signed to keep shoes from
spinning around the stake
and sliding off. Ringers
stay put with this model.

Drop forged, drawn in
oil, from high grade tool

steel—will not chip or
break.

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE CO.
4610 Grand Ave., Duluth, Minn.

 

    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         
      
 
   

Please mention Racnurrow when writing advertisers

594 POLICIES, PLANS AND PROBLEMS

THE JOURNAL FOR HIGH SCHOOL PEOPLE

The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House

A challenging journal for liberal secondary-school people
A progressive magazine, revealing present practices and suggesting improvements

Can you afford to be without it?

Schedule of Numbers for 1931-1932

Thanksgiving Number
Christmas Number
New-Year Number
Winter Number -
Spring Number -
Conference Number
Vacation Number

November
December
January
February

March -
A pril -
May -

Edited by a National Committee
Subscription

$3.00 a year

40 cents a copy

Three Months for One Dollar

“improving Winter Opportunities."
“Safeguarding Educational Momentum.”
“Surveys and Innovations."

"Evaluating Our Progress."

“Entering the Last Lap.”

“Needs and Opportunities.”
“The End of the Cruise."

Published Monthly from September to May

Address—

The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House
32 Washington Place, New York, N. Y.

80 convinced are we that new subscribers want to continue _the Clearing House, that we gladly extend this trial offer
to prospective subscribers. However, it carries no obligation beyond the three trial numbers.

GIVE IT A TRIAL — THEN DECIDE

The magazine to be sent for three issues to:

Name ....................................................................... ..' ............................... .. City .............................................................................................................. ..

Street

or School ................................................................................................... "State ........................................................................................................... ..

Send this coupon and your dollar to:

The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House. 32 Washington Place. New York. N. Y.

If you prefer, send $3.00 for a one-year subscription.

Build it Yourself

if you have a home workshop. here's Just the magazine you need.
Each issue of Popular llornecral‘t ls crammed
with plans for making such beautiful and use-
ful t lmrs as: Book Cases China Closets.
Bird Houses Ship Models liustic Furniture.
Lamps. Children s Flu/things. Tea Tables,
Anti ues. Candle Sticks etc. Covers wood-
work an. metal-worklng.lathe work. leather
craft. toys. cop er. brass and pewter Work.
Explains use an care of tools. A real " How
-to-do-it" magazine. Scores of large clear
drawings make every step simple as A B C.

SIX. MONTHS' TRIAL $1.00

Send £1.00 today for trial 6 months' sub-
scription. Money back if not delighted.

POPULAR HOMECRAFT ‘ ,
759 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago. Ill. ‘~ 

Trial 6 Months

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
      

 

and its universality as an individual form of
rhythm in all peoples. Modern civilization, he said,
has debauched the dance, but it belongs in the rec-
reation program because there it can be given
proper surroundings and atmosphere. The re-
vival of old time dances has become an important
part of many programs. In one city an old time
dancing club has a membership of 150, while every
Friday night in Madison, Wisconsin, 140 young
people come together for a program of old time
dances.

Mr. Earle D. Campbell, Director of Recreation
at Cleveland Heights, Ohio, believes recreational
groups should provide dancing to counteract the
influence of undesirable commercial dances. It is

 

an important part of his program. At his centers
from four to live he offers classes in esthetic
dancing; early in the evening there are instruc-
tion classes in social dancing and later a social
dance is held. Tap dancing is taught elementary
school pupils on Saturday mornings. Kenosha,
Wisconsin, holds four dances a week at the social
center. The first part of the evening is devoted
to instruction, the second to social dancing.

Certain difliculties were pointed out. In some
communities there is still antagonism toward
dancing; neighbors complain if dances are held
late. The musicians’ union sometimes creates prob—
lems by insisting on certain requirements such as
a union hall or a definite number of musicians in
the orchestra. It was suggested that the women’s
clubs are usually favorable and will help. If the
music problem is diflicult to solve a volunteer or—
chestra will often step into the breach.

It was the general feeling of the meeting that
recreation groups should make dancing a part of
the program, safeguarding it, however, by hav-
ing the best possible instruction and by insistence
on certain rules of conduct, prompt closing of
the dances and other details which make for well
conducted and acceptable dances.

Please mention Rscmrron when writing advertisers

New Books on Recreation

lce‘Hockey

By Alexander Sayles and Gerard Hallock III.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, $2.00.
A T just this time a book on ice hockey, which
has taken tremendous strides in popularity
during the past ten years, will be welcomed by
winter sports enthusiasts. The speed and vigor
of the game have won for it a host of admirers
not only at the ice but at the rink side. The pur-
pose of the authors has been to offer practical
information on how to play and understand the
game. There are accordingly chapters on the
History and Development of Hockey; Fundamen-
tals of Ice Hockey; Offense; Defense; General
Hints to Players and Coaches; Discussion and
Interpretation of Rules, and a Glossary of Terms.

Aeolian Band Classics

Arranged by G. E. Holmes. H. T. Fitzsimons
Company, 23 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago,
111. Price: each part, 40 cents; conductor’s score
(piano part), $1.00.

ERE is a collection which under good leadership will

keep happily busy for a long time any band that can
play the standard sort of band marches. The music is all
excellent, with a reach and variety that make a band re-
hearsal an occasion for feeling yourself and the other
players really grow in musical power and enjoyment.
There are two waltzes, two minuets, a gavotte, and a
bourree; excerpts from two famous symphonies; the Grieg
“Huldigungsmarsch,” which is one of the most heroic
and colorful marches in the world and has a lyrical middle
section that is the very spirit of youth and romance; and
six other compositions—three of them for smaller groups
of brasses, sax0phones and woodwinds, respectively.
Among the composers are Bach, Beethoven, Brahms,
Mozart, Schubert, and Tschaikowsky, a noble company
to invite into the recreation center. Many a band that has
gone stale or may do so, on marches and on overtures of
a shallow sort, may be expected to take 0n new life
through intelligent tackling of such music.

New York School Centers and
Their Community Policy

By Clarence Arthur Perry and Marguerita P. Williams.
Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd Street, New
York. $.50.

8 far back as 1890 the Board of Education in New

York was offering the public free lectures in its
school halls. These programs, while chiefly academic,
often presented musical and artistic features and for hun-
dreds of thousands were a source of real entertainment.
In 1929, however, they were discontinued. In the recrea-
tional type of activity which have made school centers so
popular New York has long been a leader, for in 1902 its
Board of Education had already established what were

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Chicago

J

then called “evening recreation centers.’ These still ex-
ist but now bear the name “community centers.” They
continue to be a place of indoor games, athletic sports
and club meetings, but the change of name signifies a
broadening of both function and administrative methods
and it is to the history and signincance of this latter de-
velopment that the study reported in this booklet is con-
fined.

The study has been divided into three parts. Part One
describes the New York school center system of today
and tells of the official, unofiicial and occasional use cen-
ters giving descriptions of each type. Part Two out-
lines the histOrical antecedents of the community policy,
while Part Three deals with community use and its reg-
ulation.

Recreation workers will find this study a valuable con-
tribution to the literature of the community center move-
ment. There is need for more studies of this kind which
will present a vivid picture of what is really going on in
our school centers and how they are meeting human needs.

School Athletics in Modern

Education

Edited by E. Dana Caulkins. Wingate Memorial Foun-
dation, 57 East 56th Street, New York. $2.00.

T HE Wingate MemOrial Lectures for 1930-31—-—a series

of lectures given each Saturday morning for teachers
of athletics in the New York public schools and other
students of athletics—are now available in published form.
The subjects covered by well known physical education
leaders, athletic coaches, physicians and other outstand-
ing leaders, include Athletics and Education; Athletics
and Health; Special Problems in School Athletics; Base-

595

596 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

ball; Basketball; Fencing; Football; Golf; Handball;
Lacrosse for Schoolboys; Rifiery; Skating; Soccer;
Speedball; Swimming and Diving; Tennis, and Track

and Field.
Recreation workers will find this compilation exceed-

ingly practical.

THE FIRST THREE HUNDRED BOOKS FOR THE CHILDREN'S
LIBRARY. Selected by Clara Whitehill Hunt. The
University of the State of New York Press, Albany,
New York.

This selection of books is intended as the foundation
collection for the children’s shelves Of a public library.
Three hundred titles are given in the list. Here are the
great books on which generations of children have been
nourished and which no child of today should miss. Here
are books for tiny children, for older children, and for
boys and girls in their early teens. Poetry, fairy tales and
“fact” books; books new and old; stories Of home, school
and out-Of-doors; thrilling adventures; tales of “far away
and long ago” are included. The experience of many chil-
dren's librarians during many years of contact with all
sorts and conditions of children has been put into this
selection. The list is not graded, but suggestions are given
as to the ages to which the books will generally appeal.

THE RECREATION KIT, 27. New Games and Home Made
Puzzles. Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough.
Church Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

Here are puzzles of all kinds—_—in wire, string, leather
and wood \Vlth notes on the equipment necessary. There
are games, too, from the ROhrboughs’ inexhaustible store-
house.

TIIE RECREATION KIT, 28. Progressive Skill Game Party
and Hallowe’en Resources. Edited by Katherine and
Lynn Rohrbough. Church Recreation Service, Dela-
ware, Ohio. $.25.

Innumerable Hallowe’en stunts are to be found in this,
the latest edition of the Pocket Magazine of Social Recrea-
tion. There is also a Progressive Skill Game Party de-
scribing activities Of many kinds.

THE CHILD FROM ONE TO SIN. Children’s Bureau. United
States Department of Labor, Government Printing

Office, Washington, D. C. Publication No. 30. $.10.

The care and training of the child are discussed in a
very practical way in this valuable pamphlet. One chap-
ter is devoted to play as a way of learning, and the im-
portance of backyard equipment and activities is stressed.

BASKETBALL GUIDE AND NATIONAL OFFICIALS’ RATING—
1931-32. Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 17R. $.25.

Recreation workers will welcome the announcement
that there is now available a basketball guide for girls
and women as adopted by the VVomen’s Athletic Editorial
Committee of the American Physical Education Associa-
tion. In addition to the rules, which include a few changes.
there are a number of articles and a chart on basketball
technique.

CHARACTER EDUCATION BY STATE AND CHURCH. By
gag-8m S. Tuttle. The Abingdon Press, New York.

In this volume Professor Tuttle sketches in simple out-
‘line the ways in which the State may c00perate in the
cultivation of the religious life of the child and the ways
in which the Church may stimulate and utilize such
assistance. He sets forth the rapidly developing move-
ments in the schools along the line of character education
and tells what various states are doing. Practical refer-
ences and sources of information are cited.

THE DOORWAY To NATURE. By Raymond T. Fuller. The
John Day Company, New York. $2.50.

Here is. a_ guide for anybody, whether child or adult,
whether lIvIng in the city, the suburbs or the country,
who wants to proceed by easy stages to an understanding

of the mysteries, the beauties and the whimsicalities of
the outdoors. The author lists and describes fifty plants
and fifty insects everyone should know and tells how to
identify the wild flowers and how to go auto-camping
and hiking.

“1000 AND ONE.” The Educational Screen, Inc., 64 East
Lake Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The Educational Screen presents the eighth edition of
the Blue Book of Non-Theatrical Films, the purpose of
which has been to include within the necessary space
limitations all the new and worth while material pos-
sible, together with all films from previous editions that
are still most actively circulated. The films are classified
under such subjects as travel, entertainment, athletics
and sports, and many others. Information is given re-
garding the number of reels in each film with a brief
review and comment on the film, and information regard-
ing the distributor.

PLANNING TIIL OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOL. Lindon J.
Murphy. Bulletin 108, Engineering Extension Serv-
ice, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa.

This pamphlet presents a concise statement of the
principles entering into swimming pool and wading pool
construction and a discussion of water purification. It is
profusely illustrated with photographs and plans.

PATCHWORK PLAYS. Rachel Field. Doubleday, Doran
and Company, Inc., New York. $1.25.

This collection of plays for children includes Patty
Patchwork, Littfe Square-Toes, Miss Ant. Miss Grass-
hopper, and Mr. Cricket, Chimney Sweeps’ Holiday, and
The Sentimental Scarecrow. Three of these may be
played out-of-doors.

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
OHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
OBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
\VILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia. Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
OHN H. FINLEY. New York, N. Y.

UGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore. Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
\VILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN. New York. N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICI-on, Michigan Cit , Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE. Plainfield. . J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOHIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mas-o.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia. Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta. Me.
MISS ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJOlla, Calif.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES \V. WADSWORTH, JR., \Vashington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

OHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.
IIRs. \VILLIASI H. \VOODIN. JR., Plaintield. N. J.
FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
C. S. \VESTON, Scranton, Pa.

