Back Towards the Jungle?

NEMPLOYMENT times are no times in which to give up flowers, gardens,
music, bright colors, games, good times, good books, good stories, good
comrades, hearty laughter.

Five thousand schools in America closed! Libraries dark. The gates of
the playgrounds locked. Recreation centers and swimming pools shut up.
Back toward the jungles from 'which mankind has climbed.

You don’t save money in hard times by leaving out a pinch of salt from
your food. Better a little less food and tasty.

Unemployment is no disgrace to the individual —however great the
disgrace to the nation as a whole. Relief in such times is a sharing by those
who have with those who need. Life and color and music and drama and
the flavor of living, the savor of life, must be shared too.

Supposedly we are all of us eighty generations at least from barbarism.
Each generation has inherited more of beauty and sport and achievement.
While we are sharing we can’t be satisfied to share only what humanity
started with. In the jungles savages share their food within the tribe. What
is it that has particular value, what has mankind achieved of comradeship, of
skill, of means of lasting and permanent satisfactions, what are the educa-
tional and recreational opportunities which are most distinctive and charac—
teristic of the upward progress of mankind? '

Surely we must, in times like these, also share the means of beauty in
living, of sport in life, all that is known as art and recreation or we have
started back toward the jungle.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

November, I932

361

""

Autumn with "Her Sunburnt Caravan"

I I. 
pa?

at“ ‘3

 

'

 

*"-h—'

Courtesy Pleasure Driveway and Park District, Peoria, Illinois

Now when the time ol: liruit and grain is come,
When apples hang above the orchard wall,
And From the tangle by the roadside stream
A scent ol: wild grapes fills the racy air;
Comes autumn with her sunburnt caravan
Like a long gypsy train with trappings gay
And tattered colors ol the Orient,

Moving slow-looted through the dreamy hills.

Bliss Carmen

362

 

J

urtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

 

Christmas is universal. So there is a sharing
with children of all lands in the season’s joys.

Cincinnati Plans A Merry Christmas

|
HRISTMAS to most peo-
' ple is a time of good
“L cheer, happiness and
od will; a time when we
brget our petty annoyances
d grudges; in short—“a kind, forgiving, chari-
fble, pleasant time.” Unfortunately, the wide-
tread distress, caused by the unemployment sit-
tion, has changed the significance of the day
r many harassed mothers and fathers who
onder how they are to meet the look of disap-
intment and hurt of the faces of their children
Christmas morning when they learn that
anta did not fill their stockings, did not bring
e toys and gifts they expected so eagerly. To
ake impossible such a situation as this was one
the reasons for the organization of Cincin-
ti’s “Mayor’s Community Christmas Commit-

‘e.”

“Burn Brighter the Christmas Light of Joy
(1 Peace” was the slogan adopted last year by
e several hundred representative citizens serv-
g on the Mayor’s Committee sponsored by the

ublic Recreation Commission. By pooling the

By MABEL MADDEN
Supervisor, Community Activities

Cincinnati Public Recreation Commission

interest, experience and re-
sources of all civic, social,
cultural and service organi«
zations in the city, it was
possible to avoid duplication,
to distribute the benefits over a much greater sec-
tion and larger numbers, so that most of the un-
derprivileged realized some of the joy and good
will incident to the spirit of Christmas.

Since most cities will be confronted with
greater problems this year and because we sin-
cerely feel Cincinnati has accomplished worth-
while things through the co-operative efforts of
the members of the Mayor’s Communty Christ-
mas Committee, we are presenting the Cincinnati
plan in the hope that others may benefit.

Committee Organization

The Mayor’s Community Christmas Commit-
tee is divided into eight sections. The scope of
the work is of sufficient variety to enlist the ser-
vices of all interested groups and individuals.
One meeting of the combined committees is held
late in October. The Mayor presides and

363

364

appoints the chairmen of the eight sections, who
have been approached in advance and are on hand
to announce their plans and the complete person-
nel of the section. The executive secretary of
the Community Chest, the Director of Public
Welfare, the City Manager, and various promin—
ent citizens are given a few minutes on the pro-
gram for helpful suggestions or inspirational re—
marks. Each sectional chairman announces the
time for his first meeting. Everyone at the meet-
ing is privileged to make suggestions. In 1931,
more than two hundred representatives attended
the general meeting. The work Of the sections

is divided as follows:

CINCINNATI’S CHRISTMAS GIVERS’ EXCHANGE

In past years it was discovered that many
families received several baskets of food, cloth-
ing, or money gifts from the Eagles, Elks, the
Associated Charities, churches, and other organi-
zations, while some families, too proud to ask?
received nothing. To eliminate duplication and
avoid fraud or deception, all organizations or in-
dividuals wishing to make contributions have
agreed to co-operate with the Christmas Givers’
Exchange by sending to the secretary the names
of any individuals or families to whom donations'
are made. Families desiring assistance are also
registered with this committee, and citizens are
now educated to the point where they call upon
this committee before sending gifts.

CHRISTMAS TOYS COMMITTEE

The function of this committee is to make,
collect, repair and distribute toys to the poor chil-
dren of the community. The Boy Scouts collect
used toys and repair them as a part of their reg—
ular Boy Scout program. The Girl Scouts, Camp
Fire Girls and Girl Reserves dress dolls. The
firemen of the city, in addition to repairing used
toys, have adopted as a project the making of
new toys. All through the year, in their free
time, firemen may be seen at the station houses
at the work benches making boats, aeroplanes,
and every imaginable sort of device to bring hap—'
piness to some child at Christmas time. Thus
they are doing something of
benefit to others and enjoy—
ing themselves in creative
work. All the toys are
brought to a central distrib—
uting house, where parents

having cards from one of of success.

CINCINNATI PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS

One of the first cities in the country to
have a Community Christmas celebration,
Cincinnati is striving to make this year's
the happiest of‘oll. Careful organization
and cooperation on the part of all groups
Cincinnati finds to be the vital elements

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  

the charitable agencies may select toys suita
for the age and tastes of their children.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND INDIVIDUAL CHRISTMAS
TREES COMMITTEE

“The Christmas Tree is the symbol of
Christmas Spirit.” Since it is impossible
many homes to provide individual Christ
trees, the function of this committee is to f
a community spirit through celebrations ar
Community Christmas Trees and to give em
sis to the Christmas spirit through the decor
of existing evergreens and erection of Chris
trees on private lawns or front yards. In
suburbs the Welfare Associations, Mot
Clubs, Community Center Boards, Par
Teacher GrOUPS, and Business Men’s Clubs c
bine to erect and decorate a neighborhood Ch
mas Tree. Carol services are held on var
nights by interested groups around the lig
Christmas Tree.

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS MUSIC COMMITTE

The function of this Committee is to stimu
the organization of groups in every Commu .
to visit the sick and Shut—ins on Christmas e
day or week, and to provide music—~——instrume
vocal or choral—on Christmas day, for the
mates Of public and private institutions w
orphans, the crippled, the aged and sick
cared for.

In the past, some of the more popular hospi
have complained that they were over-run
Christmas eve and Christmas day with well m
ing carolling groups, and in many instances t
had to be turned away to guard the pati
against too much nervous excitement. O
institutions in more remote locations complai
that they had no attention during the Christ
season. This committee, therefore, correl
and coordinates the activities of the various ch
choirs and other groups, and makes the assi
ments for Christmas entertainment. The I
cinnati Symphony Orchestra volunteered its ‘
vices and for the past three years has prese
concerts in four of the largest institutions.

Copies of carol sheets, containing the word
01d familiar Christmas I
013, have been printed
distributed free by this c
mittee.

CHRISTMAS PARTIES

COMMITTEE
Luncheon, Civic, Ser

CINCINNATI PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS 36S

   
   
  
   
 
   
   
    
 
 
   
 
  
   
  

Social Clubs in the city have been encouraged
pdopt one school in the poorest districts of the

schools. One of the club members usually
rves as Santa Claus. The committee purchases
in funds donated by the clubs, a toy, an
& nge, an apple and a bag of candy for each
d. In the most destitute districts some of the
bs have added a pair of stockings or a pair of
ves for each child. A Christmas storyteller

appropriate costume and a games’ leader fur-
h the entertainment.

LDIERs’ ENTERTAINMENT COMMITTEE

The function of this committee is to provide
ertainment and gifts on Christmas Day or in
Christmas Holiday season for the disabled
- erans now being cared for in the hospitals of
milton County and neighboring Kentucky
ns, and for such ex-soldiers as are in need
assistance and cheer. This eliminates the an-
. ing street begging by men posing as disabled
erans, since all bona hde veterans in need of
istance know they may receive help by calling
ithe local American Legion ofhce, since the ex-
tive secretary of the Legion serves as chair-
0 n of this section.

yRISTMAS STORYTELLING COMMITTEE

'I‘his Committee organizes trained storytellers
0 tell Christmas stories in the children’s insti-
'ons in the Children’s wards of the city hospi—
. and at children’s Christmas parties, and 'pw‘
5 those volunteer storytellers with pictur-
ue costumes. '

  
  
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
     
 

BLICITY COMMITTEE

11 committee chairmen and secretaries clear
licity through the central committee. Last
r the Retail Merchants’ Association loaned its
licity manager to the Mayor’s Community
ristmas Committee for the entire month pre-
ing Christmas. This service was particularly
table since the publicity expert succeeded in
cating more of the general public to the aims
‘ .=i purposes of the committee. The newspapers

e exceedingly generous in the space allotted
he Christmas Committee.

he most pretentious undertaking of the com-
ee was the Christmas Music Festival given
h the benefit of the unemployed at Music Hall,
' The Sunday preceding Christmas. This festi-

., to give Christmas parties for'the children in.

val was presented under the auspices of the Sym-
phony, Orpheus, Mothersingers, Choristers, Uni-

' versity men and women's Glee Clubs, the Public

High School Chorus, the Cincinnati Institute of
Fine Arts, and the Recreation Commission.
Marta \Vittkowska, then a member of Metropoli-
tan Opera, who was visiting in Cincinnati, was
the soloist. She, too, donated her services.

Christmas is “a good time” and a time when
community co-operation can result in happiness
for the lesser privileged members of a commu-
nity. This year, more than ever, Recreation
Boards and Commissions must accept the chal-
lenge to do everything in their power to alleviate
suffering and to “burn brighter the Christmas
light of joy and peace.”

Many recreation departments have their Christ-
mas handcraft classes for the making of Christ-
mas gifts, but it is interesting to note that relief
agencies are also adopting the idea. The Family
Welfare Bureau of Vancouver, Canada, last year
conducted handcraft classes for forty children
from the 350 families with whom the Bureau was
working. These children, from six to twelve
years of age, met four Saturday afternoons be-
fore Christmas in the club room of the Y.W.C.A.
and made presents for their families. An adult
volunteer was in charge of three or four children
at each small table showing them how to stitch
and braid, cut and paste. Other volunteers pre-
pared the material, while at the far end of the
room was the, “shipping department” where vol-
unteer workers helped the children make out
Christmas cards for the finished articles and
wrapped them. in the, usual Christmas finery.
“Afternoon tea” of milk and- buns brought each

afternoon to a close.

r
“M.-

haw--

 

Recreational Reading

A plea For the happy use of lei-
sure through active appreciation

of the most democratic of arts.

By STELLA S. CENTER

President, National Council
of Teachers of English

'1‘ Is the fashion among the unthinking to decry
I the present age as a machine age and to lament

the passing of the good old days. But-'in this
chorus wise teachers of English do not join.
Rather they welcome the stretches of leisure made
possible by time and energy saving machines and
try to help people fill that leisure wisely. It is in
these periods of leisure that we re-create, or
rather re-create ourselves, to use the world in its
original sense. The plane on which we re—create
ourselves is an accurate index of our intellectual
and spiritual attainment.

It is chiefly to the arts that we look for the in-
spiration and help that will enable us to make our
periods of leisure occasions for true re—creation.
The most democratic of all the arts is literature.
It is understood, appreciated, and practiced more
widely than any other art. There is a bond be-
tween literature and anyone who can read. Com—
partively few can practice the art, but almost
everyone can participate in it through appreciation.

In this active appreciation of the art of litera-
ture—that is, the art of silent reading—lies our
chief hope of filling leisure wisely and happily.
It devolves on teachers of literature to meet the
challenge of a complex machine age. They must
convert stretches of non-occupation into produc-
tive leisure. Science has created leisure which

366

Courtesy “Hygeia”

   

 
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   

They can’t begin too young
become acquainted with bo

must be filled to the brim' with life—giving rec
ational activities, not with activities that bl
line sensibilities, stultify the imagination, and d
the keen edge of the intellect.

An editorial in the New Y ork Times, entit
“Reading as an Art,”* testifies to the high p1
the art of silent reading holds in modern life:

“That there are several million persons in i
United States beyond the age of childhood w
are illiterate, contradicts the statement put
Shakespeare in the mouth of Dogberry, that
read and write comes by nature.’ There are .
other million, nominally literate, who yet read
little and with such pains, that to them books .
as an instrument upon which they have
learned to play. Professor Charles H. Judd
the University of Chicago, emphasized that
speaking on adult education at the Convocat'
of the University of the State of New York:

“ ‘Until people are ready to cultivate readi
as they would cultivate the ability to play a m

cal instrument or to play golf, they will never
able to use the best sources of information w

readiness and full advantage.’

* October 19, 1930.

RECREATIONAL READING 367

   
  
   
 
    
   
   
  
 
  
   

“Reading aloud is recognized as an art, but
badng to one’s own mind is also an art which
in be developed, as other arts, by incessant
ractice. If he were to give as much attention to
- cultivation of this skill as the musician gives
0 his art, the artisan with leisure and a library
ould be richer than the man whose profession
‘ vocation leaves him no time to read swiftly

d thoughtfully in the literature which is ‘the
gun of the race mind’ and whose chief func-
'n is the fusion of nations and the ‘enfranchise-
nt of the soul’ of the individual.

' “Reading ‘maketh the full man’ only when he
s attained readiness with comprehension on his
ading. Adult education is to be fostered best
I the cultivation of this skill. As Professor
dd suggests, it may be acquired without the
rmality of class instruction. Education is,
ter all, largely self-education; and with a skill
reading, one may have the masters of all time
.o one’s teachers. Want of learning need keep
‘a one low, as once it did, when he was ‘a god
ho could but read and spell,’ and learning may
' had even outside of universities, if one but
. ve the skill to read.”

We teachers of English address ourselves par-
cularly to the adolescent and the early adolescent
riod—that stretch of years between eleven and
' hteen inclusive——that time when habits and at-
!udes assume a definition that persists through-
t life. It is to this age that we address our-
ves in the hope that the cultured adult may
erge with resources for leisure and recreation.
Granted that a program of recreational read—
_ is an essential part of every high school pro-
m, how can books be selected that will provide
sely for the reader of today and the kind of
It we wish him to become tomorrow? What
the factors that control in the assembling of a
0 gram of recreational reading?
Such a program of reading, to be effective,
st be child-centered; that is, reader-centered.
must reckon with the
der: his needs, his out-
. k. It must envision the
n or woman we hope that
~ child will become.

  
  
 
 
 
  

   
   
  
    
 
 

- What Kind of Books
Shall We Offer?

n assembling a child-cen-
ed program of effective
reational reading, what

Recreation workers, who as a group are
becoming increasingly appreciative of the
value of reading as a leisure time activity,
will welcome the announcement of the
reading list, "Leisure Reading," published
by the National Council of Teachers of
English, 2” W 68th St., Chicago, For the
use of pupils in the 7th, 8th and 9th
years. It contains more than I,IOO titles,
and is based on the natural interests and
popular hobbies of boys and girls between
II and IS years of age. The price is $.20.

kind of books must be included? The National
Council of Teachers of English has for the past
two years had committees at work in an attempt
to answer this question, preparing Home Read-
ing Lists for readers between the ages of eleven
and eighteen inclusive. One list is a revision of
the list compiled by Herbert Bates and his com-
mittee in 1923 and addressed to Senior High
School pupils. The other list is addressed to
pupils between the ages of eleven and fourteen,
the junior high school age, or rather the seventh,
eighth, and ninth years. There are approximately
two thousand titles in each list, the list for the
younger pupils being carefully annotated. In the
list for older pupils, the books are grouped under
sub-headings that give a clue to the contents of
the book. Both lists are profusely illustrated in
color and in black and white. Both have attrac-
tive colored covers, designed to attract young
readers and lure them “through the Gates of the
Mountain.” The illustrations, through the cour-
tesy of the publishers, are by such artists as Will
James, Frederic Remington, Constance Garland,
Morgan Dennis, Maxfield Parrish, Howard Pyle,
N. C. Wyeth, and others, the illustrations num-
bering seventy or eighty in each list. They have
been compiled for the purpose of making reading
a worth while leisure activity, a means of re-cre-
ation or recreation. The lists are the committee’s
answer to the question: “What books should we
recommend in order. that recreational reading
may be truly recreational?”

I. We recommend books that furnish new,
worth while experiences, not so new, however,
that they cannot be understood in the light of the
reader’s experience. The young reader wants ex-
periences, more experiences, new experiences—
the stuff out of which life is made. Youth longs
to live and to live abundantly. He wants to re-
live the experiences of long ago. He likes to pro-'-
ject himself into the distant future.

This longing and need call for stories and
novels of wholesome action,
full of accurate, concrete de-
tails, with characters capable
of heroism, of sacrifice, of
high endeavor, of strenuous
exertion, of genial comrade-
ship, of line sportsmanship.
To this goodly company
belong the trumpeter of
Karkow in fifteenth century
Poland ; Hereward, the

368

English outlaw and patriot; Marco Polo at the
court of Emperor Kublai Khan; Quentin Dur-
ward of the Scottish guards. How fortunate is
the young reader who discovers the North Pole
with Peary or Lives with Robert Falcon Scott,
those last tragic hours at the South Pole! Or to
have felt with Dillon Wallace the lure of the
Labrador! How truly recreational it is to ex-
plore Africa with Livingstone, or to sail beyond
the Gates of Hercules with David Bone, Joseph
Conrad, John Cook, or Richard Henry Dana!
Daniel Defoe and James Fenimore Cooper have
much wisdom to unfold to the modern Boy
Scout. Jim Davis tells a thrilling story of capture
by pirates off the coast of Devon one hundred
years ago. That epic pursuit or Moby Dick still
holds the eager attention of young and old.

But this list of stalwart souls stretches out
almost endlessly. How fortunate the youth who
is at home in the company of active, adventurous
spirits who

“Steer beyond the evening star,
And challenge their own dream
To overtake the things that are
Behind the things that seem,
And do not care if death should be

The price of curiosity.

But still for heries there are seas
Beyond the Gates of H ercnles!”1'

2. The second large group of books on our
recreational list consists of those that interpret
life. It is not enough to have the panorama of life
unfolded before the eyes of youth. Life must be
interpreted; experiences evaluated. What 'are the
right emphases? Youth needs to look at life
through the eyes of the humorist, the dreamer,
the star-gazer, the ditch-digger, the politician, the
philosopher, the amused spectator—what'have
they to say about life? Many have attempted an-
swers, notably among them Hamlin Garland in
his Roadside Meetings of a Literary“ Nomad.
John Galsworthy in the Forsyte Saga, Willa
Cather in M y Antonia, the story of a “Bohemian
immigrant girl related reminiscently by a New
York lawyer,” Rolvaag in the saga of the prairie,
Giants in the Earth, Howells in his story of the
self-made American and his family in contact
with Boston society in the 80’s. These wise in—
terpreters of life—what a rich heritage they be-
stow on youth! Not only do they interpret life,
but they enrich it also.

3. Then there is that third group of booksthat
make the reader' acquainted with the world of
work. They make him at home with Workers and

RECREATIONAL READING

 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

equip him to follow a vocation intelligently a
happily. Such books are vocational counsello
who help young people to help themselves.
those who have found their work:

“The world’s no blot nor blank,
Bnt means intensely, and means good.”

Who are these authors who have celebra
work and glorified it? Angela Morgan. Hear .

song of Triumph:

“Work!
Thank God for the might of it,
The ardor, the urge, the delight of it—
Work that springs from the heart’s desire,
Setting the brain and the soul on fire-—
Oh, what is so good as the heat of it,
And what is so glad as the beat of it,
And what is so kind as the stern command,
Challenging brain and heart and hand?”

Arnold Bennet visits a telephone exchange .
thinks of millions upon millions of live iilame
“under pavements and over roofs and betw
floors and ceilings and walls.” Walter Sand
Hiatt presents Sparks of the Wireless who c
through the air and over the sea with a tiny a
or a dash or two. Or Edna Ferber sees a gr
department store in perspective and senses :
human element in the Gargantuan thing t
sprawls its length in many a great city. EdV
Lefevre. shows us Wall Street with its inha
tants, today worth millions, tomorrow curs'
Lady Luck. Go with Frank Norris to the wh
pit. It is nine o’clock. “Then, suddenly, cutti
squarely athwart the vague crescendo of the fl
came the single, incisive stroke of a great go
Instantly a tumult -was unchained. Arms W
flung upward in strenuous gestures, and fr
above the crowding heads in the Wheat Pi
multitude of hands, eager, the fingers extend
leaped into the air.”

This world of work! To be a worker in
world of work, doing, as Carlyle phrased it, '
work for which you are fitted by nature and
training! There are few satisfactions compara
to it. Let the young reader see the potter at w
in Brnnel’s Tower, or the riverman in Bla
Trail Stories,- or the cotton picker in Scher
Cotton a H’orld Power; let him thresh wheat
Hamlin Garland in A S on of the Middle Bar
or quarry' slate in Old Delabole with Eden P
potts, or rejoice in The Delights of Delicate 3
ing by Elizabeth Pennell ; or learn The Busi .
of Being a Woman by Ida Tarbell. Yo

'l‘Cnrsory Rhymes, Humbert Wolfe.
iWork: A Song of Triumph, Angela Morgan.

   
     
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
     
   
  
 
 

ders are eager to enter the world of work and
. d with avidity the story of adventures in that
Dorado.

But man needs something besides work. He
(15 the freedom to expend his spirit, to experi-
nt with various modes of expression. Hear

wning’s testimony:

“Because a man has shop to mind

In time and place, since flesh must live,
Need spirit lack all life behind,

All stray thoughts, fancies fugitive,

All loves except what trade can give!

“I want to know a butcher paints,

A baker rhymes for his pursuit,
Candlestick-maker much acquaints

His soul with song, or haply mute,
Blows out his brains upon a flute;
But—Shop each day and all day long!
Friend, your good angel slept, your star
Suffered eclipse, fate did you wrong!
From where these sorts of treasures are,

There should our hearts be—
Christ, how far!”

It is the province of recreational reading to pro-
" the means of escaping occasionally from
p.

. But we should deserve the righteous con-
nation of youth, did we not provide him with
ks that tend to make him a citizen of the uni-
e—books that will stretch his parish bounds
n ocean to ocean—books that will make him
ainted with other lands and other peoples,
the hope that out of this acquaintance may
- a world fellowship that will put an end to

This generation will “hold high the torch

keep the faith” only if it proclaims in burn-
words that the world does interlock. What
e books to say to young readers if they are to
- blish peace with men of good will?
‘ here is The Daughter of the Samurai, a faith-
tching of Japanese life and aspiration. Selma
rlof’s Marbacka makes Scandinavia seem
neighborly. Hear Woodrow Wilson’s Ad-
‘ s to Newly N aturalieed Citizens. Read James
ncis Dwyer’s C itieen—Leave Russia and come
merica with Ivan and Anna; hear Woodrow
on’s words to them:

e grow by dreams. All big men are dream-
They are things in the soft haze of a spring
or in the red fire of a long winter’s evening.

of us let those great dreams die, but others
ish and protect them, nurse through bad days
they bring them to the sunshine and light
' h come always to those who sincerely hope
their dreams will come through.” Such

RECREATIONAL READING

369

books lead the young reader to Thomas Hardy’s
conclusion:

“I traveled the whole terrestrial round,
Homing‘the other side;
Then said I, ‘ll'hat is there to bound
My denieenship? It seems I have found
lts scope to be world-wide.”’§

5. \Ve should rightly forfeit the esteem of
youth, if we did not give wise guidance in that
field where an ethical choice must be made. Per-
haps you recall the old Hebrew tradition that rep-
resents Ithuriel, the angel formed of fire, encom-
passed by light, and carrying a magic spear. In
Paradise Lost, Ithuriel, as a toad crouched at the
ear of Eve. Touched by the revealing spear, the
fallen angel stands forth in his true guise.

The Hour of the Angel, Kipling’s poetic ver-
sion of the tradition, reminds us that no reading
list is complete unless it includes that glorious
company who meet test unflinchineg when the
hour springs on them. Let youth meet Scott in a
blinding antarctic blizzard, when Ithuriel’s spear
touched him and his companions. Go with Gren-
fell, the missionary doctor, and discover with him
that “the joys of life lie in us, not in things.”

Clara Barton on the battle-field, Michael Pupin
on the Serbian hills gazing at the stars, Byrd,
Amundsen, Ellsworth, Lindbergh—all have faced

the Angel’s Hour and endured the touch of the
spear.

How beautifully this high commission is de-
scribed in The Magic Spear:

“Some years ago, in the old walled City of
Manila, a long religious procession carrying tall
candles was passing through the narrow streets.
Suddenly the tropic night fell; the blackness was
pierced only by the brilliant stars above, among
which shone resplendent the beautiful Southern
Cross. As the leader entered the votive church
which was the goal of the procession, he lighted
his candle at the altar; then, coming out, he
passed the flame to those nearest him, the light
quickly Hashing from hand to hand, illuminating
the dark streets and making a long path of light.

So do poets and narrators of fine thought and
doers of noble deeds pass along the inspiring
thought or word or deed of life, making a trail
of light down the centuries to guide uncertain
feet along the hazardous road of life."*

§His Country, from Collected Poems.

*The Magic Spear by Mary McSkimmon and Virginia
Lynch.

(Continued on page 40.?)

How Much Public Recreation Is Essential?

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

Mr. Wallace delivered this

address at a meeting of the Na-
tional Municipal League held in
Washington, D.C.,on September
thirteenth. The general theme
of the series of meetings held
at that time under the auspices
of the League was "The Problem-
Paying for Local Government
during the Depression.’'

this meeting on the general subject of public

recreation, though I confess to some trepida-
tion as I think of the exact title which has been
assigned to me—How Much Public Recreation Is
Essential? There are so many different defini-
tions of “essential.” Essential for what? Essential
for health? Essential for happiness? Essential
for the business efficiency of adults? Essential for
the growth of children? Many previous genera-
tions have felt recreation quite unessential.
Church authority was once opposed to recreation
as not only not essential but “undesirable.

I am troubled also because the chief purpose of
this whole series of meetings in Washington at
this time is to discover ways and means by which
government costs can be reduced. But nowhere
in our country have recreational expenditures
provided the essentials of public recreation serv—
ice for all of our citizens. To suggest reductions
in our present inadequate service, therefore, is
like suggesting a further amputation for a one—
legged man. For our present recreation service is
indeed thoroughly inadequate. The White House
Conference on Child Health and Protection,
which is probably as sound a source of informa-
tion as is available, estimated that of a total of
32,000,000 children under eighteen in the United
States only about 5,000,000, at the most liberal
estimate, were served by playgrounds. The recre-
ational needs of adults (especially young adults)
are probably with equal inadquacy unserved by
the present public recreational facilities.

370

I AM HAPPY to have the opportunity to address

Staff Member, National Recreation Association

In a democracy a governmental service ought to be av
able for all. Our educational service, for example, althou
it varies in quality, does nevertheless accept its obligation
provide some kind of public schooling for every child. 0
public recreation service, however, is not providing even .

physical facilities for recreation service to eve
majority of the urban children of the country.

'cating that the recreation expenditures of

By ROY SMITH WALLACE

New York City

   
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  

I would not, of course, be understood as in

cities should not share in the economies n
forced upon us by the reduction of the natio
income. Recreation workers throughout the co
try will be glad to cooperate in planning ways
which, through reduction of salaries, thrOUgh
ducing the number of leaders per area and I
center, through opening up recreation cent
three evenings a week instead of five, thro
diminished appropriations for supplies, we I
make economies. They do not, however, wish
see unintelligent, drastic cuts out of all prop
tion to cuts in other types of service. Recreat
activities as a part of governmental responsibi
are so new that it is natural for the city ofhc
to think first of eliminating entirely this ne
type of service. May I suggest, however, t
some of these newer services established in
twentieth century may very well represent ser
to more genuine twentieth century needs t
some of the governmental services establis
centuries ago. I think I would match the valu
the services of a good recreation leader to
needs of modern city life up against the valu
a sheriff or a coroner or a sergeant-at-arms
a tipstaf or a bailiff, even though these 0
have existed for centuries.

Furthermore, the proportion of the total
penditures of city government which goes
recreational purposes is pretty small and does
offer a very large field for the pruning which
nomical city fathers are seeking to make to

    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
    
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

last available report of the United States
sus Bureau on “Financial Statistics of Cities”
icates that in 1929 only 3.6% of all local cur-
t expenditures in cities with a population of
000 or more was for park and recreation pur-
s, and that this percentage has not increased
ing the last twenty years. This 3.6% repre—
ts a total expenditure of just over $69,000,000
'ch covers the cost of care and maintenance of
park systems of these cities and the cost also
the organized recreational activities of these
es. This maintenance cost represents only
ut 3% of the value of the park properties of
e cities, namely $2,400,000,000 which is surely
w ratio of maintenance cost to value.

ut how much public recreation is essential?
ve thought that our cities might well consider
ssential to spend in wholesome and construc-
' ways an amount of money which would pre-
t the necessity for similar amounts in. remedial
" corrective work. It ought surely to be essen-
to make for prevention an expenditure as
t as that which we otherwise would have to
' e for correction.

or example, without question recreation sys-
s have reduced delinquency. I am aware of
difiiculty of accurate
'stics in this field, of
various factors which
plicate all social prob-
I do believe, how-
, that it is sound to
ider the results which
- been obtained in the
ction of juvenile de-
uency as indicated by
testimony of compe-
witnesses. For in-
e, James H. Killey,
ation Officer of the
nile Court of Milwaukee,
onsin, said: “The Beulah
ton and Bishop Avenue play-
nds have been in operation
years. In this community,
r to the opening of the play-
nd and community house, there was continu-
trouble with gangs and factions which were
to control, and there were always a good
. boys on probation for stealing and assault.
' these playgrounds have been in operation,
quency cases in the juvenile court have been
pleter wiped out and for the past two years

 

Courtesy East Orange, N. 1., Recreation Commission

For the sake of the future of
our nation, we must see to it
that in a time of depression
little children are not robbed of
their birthright.

HOW MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION IS ESSENTIAL? 371

not a boy from this community under the age of
seventeen years has been before the juvenile court
on any charge whatsoever, except for truancy,
and only six on this complaint.” Charles Edwin
Fox, when District Attorney of Philadelphia,
studied a district for five years before and a like
period after the establishment of playgrounds.
He says: “I discovered the remarkable fact that
in the five years of playground recreation, the
neighborhood showed a fifty per cent decrease in
juvenile delinquency, as compared with the
previous years.”

Similar studies and observations have been
made in many cities, large and small, and I cite
some of them here: In Visalia, California, a
study by the Probation Office reported an 80%
decrease in juvenile delinquency following the
opening of playgrounds. Louis Brownlow, when
City Manager of Knoxville, Tennessee, claimed
that juvenile delinquency had decreased 50%
after the playground system was started there.
In Miami, Florida, the Juvenile Court Judge gave
credit to the playground and recreation work in
the city for a 95% decrease in juvenile delin-
quency. The Juvenile Court Judge of Anaheim,
California, in 1925 gives credit for a 70% de-
crease in juvenile delin-
quency there. There are
many other similar figures.

These quotations have
to do only with juvenile
delinquency. No similar
studies or collection of
testimony have been made
as to the effect of recrea-
tion on the delinquency of
young adults. With the
development of public rec-
reation far beyond the
stage in which its clientele
is exclusively children on the
playgrounds; with the increase,
that is, in athletic fields, tennis,
bathing, indoor recreation cen-
ters; with the rapid enrichment
of the program of public recrea—
tion so that it includes now not merely games,
sports and athletics but all kinds of musical and
dramatic activities, handcraft and constructive
activities culminating in the creative arts and so-
cial recreation of all kinds, the public recreation
systems of the country are serving large numbers
of adults. In certain cities this service constitutes

372 HOW MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION IS ESSENTIAL?

more than one-third of the total service rendered.
It is this young adult group, from seventeen to
twenty-two or -three years old, from which much
of our crime is coming. It seems to me fair,
therefore, to believe that our public recreation
systems in addition to reducing juvenile delin-
quency are also preventing a considerable amOUnt
of delinquency from these yOUng adult groups.

I shall try now to translate some of this into
cost figures. Various studies have shown that
juvenile arrests per year number about two plus
per thousand of population; that about one—third
of the children arrested are put on probation;
that about one—quarter of them are sent to re-
formatory institutions where they stay about two
years. Dr. Glueck’s study of the output of the
Massachusetts Reformatory has shown that a
large percentage of those who enter the reforma-
tories (80% his study shows) are not thereby re-
claimed to good society and later fill up our
prisons. The average cost of probation per year
is $30.00; of reformatory care, over $500.

All of these figures indicate that there are very
substantial savings to be made in crime costs
through expenditure for playgrounds and recrea-
tion centers. N0 statistical processes would be
sound. I cannot give you unimpeachable figures,
but just to give you some dollars and cents in
order that the possible scale may be in your minds,
let me remind you that the National Commission
on Law Observance and Enforcement (the so-
called Wickersham Committee) in its study of the
cost of criminal justice in American cities in 1930,
found a total cost of $5.47 per capita of popula-
tion for the cost of police, prosecution, courts,
penal and correctional institutions and probation.
In the City of
Washington, D.
C.. the total cost
was $4,48 5,000
or $9.21 per cap—
it'a. If the play-
ground and rec—
reation services
of Washington
have held down
delinquency and
crime by a bare
8%, it has more
than paid for its
total cost in the
reduced taxpay-
er’s c 0 s t ‘of

*Q 13m. -
" ‘0

I .
, ‘;_.._......s._.........¥ , _, ‘8“

Courtesy East Orange, N. 1., Recreation Commission

crime. Recently the cost of caring for juve
delinquency for one year in a city of less t
20,000 population from arrest, through cust
and court trials to commitment and instituti
care, proved to be $77,000. The cost of a y
round public recreation system for'that city

been worked out, as to leadership and prog
operation well distributed to serve the need
sections, as $5,000 to $7,000. Thus the cost
legal care of delinquency was fully ten time
great to the taxpayers as the recreation sys
would entail.

A similar authentic claim can-also be mad
the field of health and the possibility of the
duction of some of the taxpayer’s cost for
care and treatment through play of the sick
the insane. I cannot here go into this phas
the question at length. The health value of
door play is widely accepted and is indeed aut
itatively indicated in a report of the Joint I
mittee on Health Problems in Education of
National Education Association and the A
can Medical Association, which is so long t
quote only one sentence from it: “Big In
activity stimulates growth, and for the grox
child is absolutely essential.” Similar preve .
values from the point of view of mental h
are indicated by such authorities as the follow
Dr. Arthur H. Ruggles, Chairman of the Ex
tive Committee, National Committee for Me
Hygiene, said: “Recreation is an important

.ment in our efforts for the prenvention and t

of mental disease. For the normal individu
tends to sustain a healthful, happy outloo

Is the provision of athletic fields for boys and y
men an essential? Many cities are proving their v

‘

u._ -u ‘

l
l
g

l

l

l

 

  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  

. Games, sports, music, dramatics, folk dances
other social activities provide healthful re-
s for pent-up physical and mental energy.
ess in recreations also gives the individual a
- of achievement and power, and thus helps
void the growth of a feeling of inferiority
ch may oppress him throughout life and even
‘ to serious mental maladjustment. Further-
, the feverish nervous strain of modern
n existence is relieved by regular recourse to
, especially outdoor recreation in close contact
the soothing infiuence of nature.”

gain it is difficult fairly to translate all this
I terms of money to be saved in the city and
appropriations for hospitals and other health
vities. I know that the cities over 30,000 in
lation spent in 1929 over $59,000,000 for
ital care, or over $1.25 per capita of popula-
in these cities, and an additional $48,000,000
the conservation of health or $1.08 per capita.
ow that the State of New York spent in 1931

$24,000,000 for the hospital care of mental
ents, a total cost to the citizens of the State of
York of $1.80 per capita. Even a 1% re-
ion in these costs of the care of physical and
tal health which recreation can bring about
ld mean a possible additional $.04 per capita
could profitably be expended on recreation.
ossible 5% reduction in these budgets through
ful recreation would justify a $.20 per
ta expenditure for recreation.

onsideration of such facts as are available do
i to show that one measure of how much pub-
ecreation is essential lies in its effectiveness
his reduction of taxpayer costs for the care
rime and sickness.

he American people do value recreation—
do believe it is an essential. Every sensible
knows this, from the father who buys a
ie car for his young son to John D. Rocke-
r who, at ninety-three, plays his golf twice a

ow essential recreation is every sensible man
3. Social thinkers and educators by the
s and by the hundreds, could be brought for-
to testify to the essential need for recrea-
Perhaps John Dewey may be used as a
. \Vriting in 1916 in his book “Democracy
: cation,” Professor Dewey said: “Recre-
. the word indicates, is recuperation of
No demand of human nature is more
or less to be escaped. The idea that the

HOPV MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION IS ESSENTIAL! 373

need can be suppressed is absolutely fallacious. . .
If education does not afford opportunity for
wholesome recreation and trained capacity for
seeking and finding it, the suppressed instincts
find all sort of illicit outlets, sometimes overt,
sometimes confined to an indulgence in the imagi-
nation. Education has no more serious responsi-
bility than making adequate provision for enjoy-
ment of recreational leisure, not only for the sake
of immediate health, but still more if possible for
the sake of its lasting effect upon habits of mind.”

How much do you think the American people
pay for their recreation? Any figures as to the
total cost of recreation in this country would, of
course, be an estimate. It is, however, probably
worthwhile to note that so competent a student
as Stuart Chase in his chapter on leisure in
Whither Mankind, estimated that the total ex-
penditures of the American people for the recrea-
tional pursuits of their leisure time had in one
year (1928) amounted to $20,000,000,000 be-
tween one-quart‘er and one-fifth of the total
national income for that year. A recent article in
Business Week, based on figures from official
sources and from sport and amusement organiza-
tions and publications, and omitting many of the
types of expenditures which Stuart Chase in-
cluded, indicates an expenditure in 1929 for com-
mercial recreation of over $5,250,000,000.

Certainly, too, our citizens have been using
government for recreation. The latest figures
taken from Financial Statistics of Cities, issued
by the United States Census Bureau, relating only
to cities of 30,000 or more population, show that
the values of public properties in these cities held
for recreational purposes is $2,462,000,000 more
than one-third of the value..of all the pr0perties
held by these cities. Every State of the Union
either by general or special legislation, has made
it possible for various political subdivisions—
counties, cities, school boards, park boards and
similar bodies—to establish and appropriate tax
funds to maintain public recreation departments.
By constantly larger appropriations from year to
year city authorities have evidenced the interest
of our citizenship in public recreation.

How much recreation is essential? How much
health? How much education? How much police
protection? Such questions cannot be answered
categorically. Perhaps as concrete an answer as
can be given is to be found in the previously
referred to report by the special joint committee

374 HOW MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION IS ESSENTIAL?

from two professional organizations, each of the
highest standard in its own professional field,
namely the National Education Association and
the American Medical Association. The Joint
Committee, considering health problems and
education, reported the following as to the essen-
tial needs of children for play:

Kindergarten ages and Grades I, 2, 3 (ages
5 to 9 approximately) “should spend. at
least four hours daily in activities involv1ng
big muscles.”

Grades 4, 5, 6 (ages 10, II, 12 approxi-
mately) “should spend at least three hours

daily in out-of—door active play.”

Grades 7, 8, 9 (ages I3, I4, 15 approxi-
mately) “should spend at least two hours
daily in out-of-door active play.”

Grades 10, II, I2 (ages I6, I7, 18 approx-
imately) “should spend at least one and one-
half hours daily in out—of-door active play.”

The practical attainment of the essentials in-
dicated by these statements would involve the
doubling, tripling and quadrupling of the recrea-
tional plants of most of the cities of this country.

From the point of view of safety, the stand-
ards set up by the National Conference on Street
and Highway Safety contain this. recommenda-
tion: “Adequate playgrounds throughout the
community should be provided and particularly
there should be available a playground for every
school as a safety measure to keep the children
off the streets.” This essential from the point of
view of safety has not yet been attained in public
recreation.

'_ The essentials set up for the play life of chil-
dren by the White House Conference on Child
Health and Protection are, of course, too long to
be quoted here, but they include: first, the actual
opportunity of all children to participate in and
test their interests and skills in a great variety of
play activities, including games, sports, musical
activities, dramatic activities, companionship and
contests with nature, social activities and oppor-
tunity for group activities, handcraft and other
creative activities—fundamental human interests
which throughout all the centuries have constituted
the play life of man. They include second, the
further essential of trained, skillful leadership
of the highest character which can open the door
of opportunity, give suggestion, training, coach-
ing help and inspiration for all of these various
possible activities. And third, they include, of
course, proper facilities, both indoor and outdoor.

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   

The recreational standards so far as tacilit'
are concerned have been fairly generally agre
upon by city planning, park and recreation le
ers. Small areas immediately adjacent to
home for the pre-school child; areas of fr
three to ten acres within one-third or at m
one-half a mile of the grammar school age chil
neighborhood playhelds within a mile of
young people from fourteen or fifteen years .
have been pretty generally accepted as mod
standards. Roughly speaking, one acre of p
land to every 100 population has been accep
as a standard, with of course proper distribut'
as between types of areas, and geographica
Indoor facilities of various kinds—gymnasiu
pools, music rooms, dramatic rooms, shops .
handcraft rooms—are a part of such essen
equipment. These briefly are the essentials '
up by the White House Conference. Our cit
have a long way to go in attaining these standar
I suppose it would be fair to say that in a de
cratic community the public recreation facilit
should be sufEcient to be equally available for .
and that such provision of public recreation is -.
sential as shall give opportunity to all for who
some, varied, safe play, of the kind that devel
physically and socially.

But how about public recreation? In the c
of recreation as in the case of education, it'
possible to secure its services for all only throu
public action. Our rich men can have their priv
swimming pools, own private golf courses, p
vate gymnasiums, just as they can maint
private schools for the education of their childr
but the great American democracy will be able
secure for itself adequate opportunities for who
some play, indoors and outdoors, of the ki
which will serve its real needs only through c
lective action of government. In recreation, as
education, marvelous results are possible of co
partively small expenditures. Good public sch
systems in many of the cities of the country p
vide excellent educational opportunities for 100
of their children at a cost which is only a fr
tional cost of the cost of the best private scho
Through public operation recreational opportu
ties become equally inexpensive. The unit cost
public recreation service in 1931 averaged sligh
under five cents; that is, each time a child or
or woman used a playground, a swimming p
a community center, the gross cost was under 'i
cents. In those cities of the country where I.
generally considered the best recreational p

I.

| HOW MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION 15 ESSENTIAL? 375

rams are carried on—even
ugh they are still inade-
uate from the point of view
f democratic service to all—
. cost is rarely over $.75
er capita, exclusive of debt
rvice and maintenance.
“Furthermore, the kind of
0creational opportunities pro-
. ded by the public are on the
hole far more desirable than
types of recreational op-
brtunities furnished through
dividual and commercial ini-
ative. I suppose we would all
ther have our children participating in a base—
11 game, community orchestra, handcraft con-
ruction and the other offerings of a modern
'creation program than have them find their
creation in the dance hall, the pool room, the
ving picture theater or the other usual offer-
gs of the commercial recreation business. The
siness Week article previously referred to
ows that excluding public recreation a larger
rt of the consumer’s dollar in 1929 than in
19 was spent in amusement and non-participa—
ll; recreation— on radio, movies, theater—than
‘ participation in active sports and recreation.

lthough the citizen’s taxes for public recreation
y seem to him onerous, taxes devoted to this
rpose are actually money savers, just as taxes
education are money savers from the point of
_ w of the individual citizen. A private school
 cation for his children would cost him proba-
at least $500 a year. The average householder
cates his family of several children in public
i 0015 on taxes well under $200 a year. Simi-
y a tax of $2 or $3 per householder for the
vision of public recreation will buy day by
, recreation, indoor and outdoor, of a great
iety of kinds, for the whole family, for a
ole year, at a cost of one theater ticket or eight
ten attendances at the movies. Furthermore,
provision in the immediate neighborhood of
_ resting play activities in the neighborhood
' grounds will satisfy the recreational needs of
children, and because they are thus busily em-
ed in play, their demands on our pocketbook
5 money with which to go to the movies will be
spondingly reduced and we as taxpayers will
ably be money in pocket at the end of the year,
ugh the savings effected in the decreased de-
‘ s from the children for commercial recreation.

   
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
      

  
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
   

  

:

"Have we forgotten the lessons taught
us by the war? No soldier in the
trenches needed more greatly con-
scious efforts directed towards up-
holding his spirits, strengthening his
courage, giving him the assurance that
back of him stood all of his country-
men, than do the victims of this
economic depression. Not only does
the present require that the morale of
our unemployed and their families be
maintained and strengthened, but the
future of our nation depends in large
measure upon such action." C. M.
Bookman, Executive Secretary, Cin-
cinnati Community Chest.

The services of a public rec-
reation department are of par-
ticular importance at a time
like the present. Their func-
tion is, of course, to provide
opportunity for the enjoyable
and wholesome use of leisure,
and today we are cursed with
a volume of enforced leisure
such as we have never seen
before. The demand for recre-
ational services has therefore,
as you would expect, enorm-
ously increased. Unemployed
adults or adults with only
part~time employment have a tremendous amount
of enforced free time on their hands which they
must have an opportunity to use recreationally as
well as educationally if they are not to stagnate
mentally and morally and become in increasing
numbers. a prey to anti-social forces. Our schools
each year are turning out thousands of boys and
girls who want to secure employment and who
have their entire time on their hands. The United
States Office of Education has recently estimated
that more than two—thirds of the June, 1932,
graduates from our colleges are without employ-
ment. Many of the children are of families with-
out steady or adequate income, where the home
atmosphere may become depressing and family
relationships strained. Doubling up of these
families to reduce housing costs may make it im-
possible for these children to find any play at all
in the home. Their resources for the purchase of
amusements have been reduced to the minimum.
The article in Business Week previously referred
to indicates, as you would expect, a heavy drop-

___ping off in the private purchase of commercial

recreation, both in the depression year of 1921
and again for 1930 as compared with 1929.

Our people are, therefore, largely thrown on
the community for any recreation life which they
are to have. That these conditions are actually
facts and not mere theory is clearly indicated
from reports reaching the National Recreation
Association from many localities. A comparative
analysis made of local recreation service in 1929-
1931 indicates that playground service increased
more than 17% and that indoor recreation service
at over 1100 community centers in over 100 cities
—a service largely to young adults—increased
nearly 65% in 1931 over 1929. This increased

(Continued on page 402)

Games for the Christmas Season

OR THE parties held at Christmas time at
F community centers, clubs, churches and m

homes, games appropriate to the season add
spice to the programs. Here are a few sugges—
tions for games and activities:

GAMES FOR CHILDREN

Christmas Hoop Race. Divide the group into
two groups calling one group the Holly Reds, the
other the Ever Greens. Give the leader of each
line a hoop, one wound with red crepe paper and
the other with green. Each leader holds the hoop
over his head. At the word “go” each must drop
the hoop over his shoulders down his body to the
Hoor and step out of it. The next person in line
must pick it up and drop it over his shoulders to
the floor, etc. The line finishing flI'St wins the

game.

Santa's Bag, Five players are chosen to repre-
sent the “bag.” The remaining players who are
sent to the far end of the playing area, are called
“toys.” The players representing the bag attempt
to surround as many toys as they can. If the bag
is broken, all toys are allowed to escape. All
players caught join the bag and the play can-
tinues. The last five persons caught serve as the
bag during the next game.

Christmas Messages. Players are lined up as
for a relay race. The leader whispers a certain

Christmas message to the captain of each row.
When the starting signal is given, each captain
turns around and whispers that message to the
one directly behind him. He in turn whispers it
to the next person and so on to the end of the
line. The last one runs forward and whispers
what he heard to the leader in his line. The row
which first gets its correct message back to the
leader wins that event. No
one is allowed to repeat the
message or whisper loudly.

Filling Christmas Stockings.

Give each person- a cut-out
stocking, scissors, paste and
an old magazine or catalogue
and let them fill the stocking

376

munity groups.

,room. Players receive little crepe paper (gre

. Matching Partners

Many recreation departments are Fol-
lowing the plan at issuing bulletins
containing suggestions tor-games and
activities For seasonal parties. This
is a service much appreciated by com-
The Christmas games
offered here were prepared by the De-
partment of Public Playgrounds and
Recreation at Reading, Pennsylvania.

  
    
   
 
    
    
    
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
  
  

with pictures cut from the magazine and past
on the stocking. The one having the best fill
stocking in the shortest time wins.

Helping Santa Claus. Dress a rag doll to re
resent Santa Claus and fasten securely on top w

a chimney made of cardboard. Blindfold one p
son at a time, present him with a bushy piece ‘
cotton and tell him to try to pin on Sant
whiskers. '

Christmas Blind Man's Bluii. Every player.
blindfolded except one who has a bell around

neck which tells his whereabouts to those looki
for him. The one who catches him is privile
to take off his own blindfold and put on the be]

Krismas Kandy. Hide hard candies all over t

and red) baskets, and search for candies. The a
gathering the most candy in his basket wins.

ACTIVITIES FOR OLDER PLAYERS

Snowstorm. In the beginning of the eveni
each girl is given a small circular piece of wh'
paper on which is written a number. This is
“snowflake” and she will need it later in the ev
ing. Announce that there is going to be a sno
storm. All the men are, called together a
“snowflakes,” duplicates of the ones given to t
girls, are given the men, who are instructed to ,
find their “snowflakes” (girls with a duplic
number).

Santa’s Toy Shap. Assemble all girls in 0
room and all boys in another. Whisper to ea
girl the name of some toy. Have someone e
at the same time give the names of the same 1
of toys to the boys. When the girls are admitt
to the toy shop each boy r
resents the toy given him
some appropriate action
sound. Each girl walks ab
the shop seeking to find '
particular toy awarded
taking charge of it as soon
itis located. Thus each girl -
her “toy” becomevpartners.

GAMES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON 377 l

  
   
 

nts for that player’s team. If it does not go through

it is a loss, and so on. If a player accidentally hits
the little bell which is hidden in the wreath, it

counts 25 for his team. The team with the largest

andlo Stoppers. Four stout men are chosen
run this race. In front of each are placed four

. 1 red Christmas candles in a row. These can-

5 are lighted and contestants are asked to step
, er the candles in their rows to get the measure
. the necessary step. After they have practised
_ y are blindfolded and told _to start when the
istle blows. In the meantime the candles have
t n removed. The “mental stepping” of the rac-
. is amusing to watch.

  
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  

The Lost Christmas Gift. A table serves as the
nting ground for this elusive Christmas gift.-
man and a girl are chosen as the hunter and
- gift to be searched for. Both are blindfolded.
. ey put their hands on the table at opposite cor-
s, and at the signal from the leader, start to
ve around the table, the girl trying to avoid
- man while he tries to catch her, both of them
_ ving very slowly and quietly in order to hear
other’s movements. At the clash which always
mes as a huge surprise to both hunter and
‘ nted, a new couple is chosen. This may con-
ue for three couples, but while the fourth man
- hunting for his “package” she is quietly re-

| mes

oindeer Race. Players form in lines as in a
y. Each player has a reindeer made of light
ight paper, and a piece of cardboard about IO
12 inches for each captain first in line. Each
tain places his reindeer on the floor in front of
- , and at a signal waves the cardboard to and
, making a wind which blows the reindeer
'ard until a line is crossed drawn on the floor
ut twenty feet ahead of each line. The first
son runs back to the line, hands the piece of
dboard to the second player who continues in
manner. The first team having all their
deer across the line wins.

nowballs. Suspend a large Christmas wreath
a doorway at a convenient height from the
r with a bell hidden in it. Prepare in advance
owballs” made of cotton batting covered with
te tissue paper. Divide the group into as many
is as wreaths. Players stand eight feet from
wreath and take turns throwing three “snow-
,” one being numbered 5, another 10 and a
d, 20. If the “5” goes through it counts five

ved and the man continues to try to locate her. ‘

score after all have thrown wins.

Candy Catchers. Span a rope long enough to
pin on stockings or paper bags for all players at
one end of the room. The game is started by
choosing a Santa Claus. All other players stand
at a goal line at the other end of the room facing
away-from the line. Santa places two pieces of
candy in each stocking except one and in this one
he puts a whistle. This done, he claps his hands
as a signal for the other players to rush to the
line, empty and replace their stockings and then
dash to the goal line for safety before the one
who found the whistle can blow it. When the
whistle is blown, all who are not safe on the goal
line must stop where they are and forfeit one of
their pieces of candy to the whistler. The
whistler chooses the next Santa from among the
number who reached goal safely. Each player
must make his own stocking so he can tell it
quickly, for each Santa is allowed to move the
stockings. The game continues until every player
has been the whistler once, and the winner is the
player who succeeds in obtaining the most candies.

Stocking Surprises. A large red stocking of
cambric is passed around, each one being allowed
two minutes in which to feel its contents. As
soon as the stocking is passed on he makes a list
of the contents. The contents may vary from a

toothbrush to a toy horn. Show the contents
afterward.

Favors

Sweetmeat Dolls. Made from prunes, raisins
and marshmallows. Stick one toothpick into a
prune which stands for the body of the doll. To
this attach a marshmallow head with features of
bits of candied cherries or cloves String four
toothpicks with raisins and insert one on each

side of the prune for arms, two below the prune
for legs.

Papcorn Snowman. Shape the popcorn balls
into small ones and large ones. Use the small
balls for the heads and the larger one for the
bodies. Make eyes, nose and mouth by pressing
in currants or pieces of raisins. A little hot syrup
will paste the head firmly to the fat, chubby body.
Make a paper hat to fit over the small ball.

 

Developments in Volley Ball

National Council of Young Men's Christian Associations

OLLEY BALL has had a progressive develop-
ment since its introduction by the Y.M.C.A.
in 1895. No other game has spread through-
out the world in such a short time. It is equally
enjoyed by and beneficial to young and old of
both sexes. It requires simple equipment and can
be played indoors or out-of-doors, and may there-
fore be played the whole year round. From the
hygienic standpoint it is one of our most health-
ful pastimes because of the fact that the pace can
be varied to suit the participants and there is a
wholesome balance between attack and defense,
affording an interplay of activity and rest. The
absence of bodily contact between opponents
minimizes injury, while the fact that the oppos—
ing teams are in close proximity and facing each
other adds to the sociability and zest of play.
The game may be played primarily as a social
activity or may be highly competitive, thus satis-
fying a wide range of desires from this stand—
point. The fact that the court is relatively small
and the ball is in constant view, and that specta—

tors may sit close to the play-
ing court, are features that add
greatly to the enjoyment from
the standpoint of spectators.

In recent years there has been
a marked improvement in the
technique of what is known as
“intensive volley ball” which
has proven that the skill and
technique of the game may be
developed without limits. This
accounts for the growing ap—
peal of the game among our
most active and athletic types
of young men, many of whom
now prefer volley ball to any of
the other major sports. Volley

378

By JOHN BROWN, JR., M. D.

Secretary of Physical Education

Dr. Brown, who is the secretary and
official rules interpreter of the
United States Volley Ball Associa-
tion, is closely in touch with de-
velopments in this popular game.
We are presenting here, practically
in its entirety, an address of Dr.
Brown's which will appear in "Aims
and Methods in School Athletics",
which is soon to be published by
the Wingote Memorial Foundation,
57 East 56th Street, New York
City. This volume will incorporate
the lectures and demonstrations
given last year before the public
school teachers and coaches of

New York. The price of the book
will be $2.00.

"ball is perhaps the most adaptable of all
sports, in that it may be played under wi
varying conditions—-—on playgrounds, in indus
plants, in open play spaces, in rural communi
and in the gymnasium. The singles and dou
variations of the official game are being pla
with keen interest in certain sections of the co
try. In other places, the novelty of the game
being added to by combinations of teams co
posed entirely of fathers or sons or mothers
daughters. Teams composed of members of 0
family, including both parents and children, a
also adding to the sociability of the game in so
communities. Volley ball is without question d
tined to become one of the most popular, ben
ncial, universal sports.

The playing court is 60 feet long and 30 f a
wide, divided into two squares of 30 feet each u

, a net similar to a tennis net which is stretch
tightly across the court. The top of the net is
feet from the ground. The game is played wi
a round leather ball, iniiated with a rubber bla

    
   
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
 
   
 
  
    
  
  
   
  

der. It is 26 or 27 inches in c'
cumference and weighs 9 or
ounces. It is a little small
and less than one—half t
weight of a basketball. 8
players make a team. Each te
net separating the two teal '
The game is played by batti
the ball with the hands ba
and forth. over the net, t
object being to prevent the b
from touching the floor witl
your own court.

A “service” is the putting
the ball in play by the player
the “Right Back” position“

   
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  

I Courtesy Tampa, Florida, Board of Public Recreation

game for young and old of both
xes, needing only a simple equip-
ent, and playable the year-round.

atting it over the net into the opponents’ court
any direction with one hand (open or closed)
nd while in a position with both feet wholly
hind the right one-third of the back line of the
urt.
A “point” is scored when the team receiving
ils to return the ball legally to the opponents’
: urt. “Side Out” is called when the team serv-
fails to win its point or plays the ball illegally.
he ball is “dead” after “point,” “side out” or
1y other decision temporarily suspending play.
A game is won when either team scores a two-
int lead with fifteen or more points. A match
r nsists of the best two out of three games. After
1e service, each team may play the ball three
mes in returning it into the opponents’ court,
ut the same player cannot hit the ball twice in
1ccession.

Reasons for Popularity

The thrill to the spectator is in seeing the ball
constant motion, going back and forth over the
. The thrill in the game to the player is when
e “kills” the ball by hitting it over the net so
at the opponents cannot prevent it from fouch-

g the fioor. 1.

DEVELOPMENTS IN VOLLEY BALL

 

It is a notable fact that this game is circling the
world in a most remarkable manner. It may sur-
prise you to know that in the championship tourna-
ments in Porto Rico they will have as many as
4,000 spectators out to see a game. In the Far
Eastern Olympic Games, in which volley ball is
included, they had as many as 40,000 spectators
in stadia especially erected for the purpose to
witness the volley ball games, even while the
other Olympic events were going on. Particu-
larly since the \Yar in Europe volley ball has
spread from country to country that prior to the
War did not know such a game existed.

It is actually true that in many cases now young
fellows of our foremost athletic type who have
been basketball fiends now prefer volley ball. I
wish you could see our National U. S. Volley
Ball Championships in which we have only state
winners or runners-up participating. \Ve have
an average of about sixteen teams annually. The
average age of the winning teams for the last sev-
eral years has been about twenty-one years. They
are athletic types of individuals.

After a closely contested championship match,
which may take anywhere from one hour to two
hours, I have seen our best trained players, who
are in splendid physical condition, quite con-
tented to sit right down on the floor at the con-
clusion of the game for a few minutes’ recupera-
tion. From this it will be seen that when the
game is prOperly played even by our best players,
it is quite strenuous.

370

380 DEVELOPMENTS IN VOLLEY BALL ‘

The reason for the appeal to those who play
the intensive game is that it is essentially a team
game. In intensive volley ball it is a crime prac-
tically for a man to return the ball immediately
it has been received over the net from the other
side. The system of playing practiced by good
teams is that a backline player receives the ball,
batting it with two hands, and placing it very
carefully in what we call the pass to a forward
line player. This second player, however, is not
to return the ball over the net, but he in turn
from his frontline position is to make what we
speak of as the “setup,” putting the ball high in
the air in a line parallel with but about one foot
back from the net in such a position that a third
man can make the kill shot. He is facing the man
who is making the setup and with a run gets a
rise from a jump so that his hand is above the
eight foot level at the top of the net, and as the
ball comes down in perfect position for him, he
makes a swinging sweep and strikes the ball for—
cibly into the clear position in which he intends
it to strike the floor. He drives the ball down
with tremendous force into the opponent’s court,
close to the net or well back into the court, de—
pending upon the formation of the opposing team.

Skill in Defense

The next phase of volley ball to be considered
is the defense. You will perceive that the other
team that has served the ball now is waiting for
it to be played back to them in this three-man
contact. Contrary to the prevailing opinion it is
just as important for a balanced team to have
strong defense players as it is for them to have
good attack players. Now if you were to study
the makeup of our best national championship
teams you would find that they are fairly evenly
balanced between what we call “spikers” or “kill-
ers” and “receivers” or “setup” men.

The spiker or killer is a tall, lithe, supple, ath-
letic type who can get his jump, and who has the
reach and can handle himself in the air and drive
the ball from a position well over the net down
into the opponent’s court; but our defense play-
ers in the main are shorter men, many of them
quite stocky in build. Except in an emergency
these men never return a ball over the net.

The best team play consists in the combination
that takes place in the passing between the play-
ers of the same team before they decide to return
the ball back into their opponent’s court.

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  

Essential Rules of Play

There is no such thing as a net ball in vol]
ball. It is good to remember that. If the ser
hits the net, it is “side out.” There is no as
in volley ball in the service. The man serv'
must bat a clean ball into the opponent’s court

When the serving side serves the ball over -
net the opposing team has three chances to ret
the ball; that is, three contacts are allowed.
the Orient they have this exception that if a i
being played by a team goes into the net t
permit that side then to have four contacts
return the ball into their opponent’s court; t
think that speeds up the game. It is importan
remember that only the serving side scores.

If the opposing team fails to return the ball
serving side scores a point but if, in the course
the ball being vollied back and forth over the
the serving side fails to return the ball into
opponent’s court, the opponents do not scor
point but the serving side is declared “out.”

After “side out” the service goes to the ot
team. For instance, if Team A is serving, Te
A scores a point if Team B fails to return
ball. In this sense it is a little different from ot
games. You always have to know which side
served in order to know whether a point has b
scored or whether it is a “side out.”

There are a lot of fine points in the game. T
are all contained in the rules, and I will not we
you with them. There are rules governing I
court and the net. The net should be bound
heavy cord, rope, and a wire cable runs throu
the top of the net in order that it may be dra
taut.

I should mention the principle of rotation r
cause it is exceedingly important. There are
markings on the floor other than those whic
have indicated; however, for purposes of taki
positions of players each court is divided into '
imaginary areas, three front and three ba
When the ball is put into play by the server, e
player on each team, with the exception of i
server who is in the serving position, must be
his own relative position on the court. This
your right forward, center forward, left forw
Here is your right back, your center back, .
here your left back.

When this side which is serving loses its se
ice, the ball then goes to the other side for serv'
and when the service changes all players rot
one position clockwise so that each time the '
posing team is put out and the ball comes to y

    
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
    
  
   

e for service every player moves to the next
sition, and in the course of the game every man
ys every position, and that has speeded Up the
ience of the game and the technique of it in a
nderful way. It prevents a team having a man
110 plays one position, and one position only. It
, kes them all play all positions. It makes for a
l ore balanced and keener competition than on
e old basis where they took their fixed positions.

This is the intensive game I am speaking of.
. fter the ball is put into play, these players move
ound as they wish, depending upon the play,
t no player in the course of the game is ever
. lowed to interchange his relative position with
other player.

Another thing that is quite important in this
nnection is this, a backline player cannot come
. the net and make a kill shot under any cir-
mstances. If because of the nature of the play
is necessary for the backline man to run for-
ard to recover a ball and get it over the net he
ay do that. He may come up and play the ball
er the net, but not by making what we call a
11 shot. You see the reason for that again is to
aintain the principle which underlies the practice
I I rotation, namely, that every man shall play his
vn relative position on the floor. But for this
ohibition, a player in the back line position who
a good spiker could come forward and assume
strategic position at the net as soon as the ball
served and remain in this position until his
mmates set the ball up for him for a kill shot.
cording to this principle of rotation every
yer becomes a server in his proper turn.

Perhaps the most difficult point to administer,
rtainly to those who are not familiar with the
me, is the matter of holding or scooping the
11. A player may use any part of his body
ove the hips in playing the ball. This means
at he may hit the ball with his head, shoulders,
ows or chest, but usually the ball is hit with
e hands. Ordinarily, the ball is played by strik-
g it with the open hands simultaneously. A
nlltaneous double contact is not allowed in the
: se that the ball cannot be hit by both the head

.n the hands or the hands and the chest at the
ne time.

Although we urge strict adherence to the offi-
rules of the game, certain modifications may
made to suit special conditions. These modi-
ations include placing the net at a lower level;

DEVELOPMENTS IN VOLLEY BALL 381

using a larger or a lighter ball; permitting a sec-
ond service; allowing an assist on the service;
permitting an unlimited number of contacts in
playing the ball; increasing the number of play-
ers; eliminating the principle of rotation, etc., etc.

All that I have discussed relates to the official

'rules of the game as played by men and boys as

these rules are revised annually by the United
States Volley Ball Association. While in a gen-
eral way the game for women and girls is very
similar, the actual playing rules are specially
adapted to meet the requirements of women and
girls; these rules are adopted and administered
by the Volley Ball Committee of the Women’s
Athletic Section of the American Physical Edu-
cation Association.

An article in the Op‘icial Handbook on Athletic
Activities for Women and Girls, 1932-1933,*
which contains the official rules for women and
girls, mentioned by Dr. Brown, points out that
volley ball is especially good as a community game
for the following reasons:

I. It is not too strenuous.

2. It can be enjoyed without waiting to develop
a great degree of skill.

3. It can be adapted to large numbers.

4. It can be safely indulged in and enjoyed by
girls physically unable to take part in more stren-
uous sports and games.

5. It offers possibilities for all types and de-
grees of skills.

6. It can be developed into a highly skillful
game.

7. It can be played by all ages.

8. It can be safely indulged in by business and
professional women, by the girl and woman not
strictly in training. For that reason it can be in-
dulged in late in life. For the tired business and
professional woman, for the school teacher, for
the girl or woman with the sedentary job, it of-
fers not only exercise and recreation, but an out-
let for nervous energy, a chance to relax, a
chance really to re-create.

9. For the rapidly growing girl or the girl a
trifle under par physically, it is a much safer game
than basketball.

 

* Spalding’s Athletic Library, 115R.

That Blessed Volunteer Worker!

By EDITH G. BREWSTER

Director, Community House
Dover, New Hampshire

that we write in response to the question, “Is

volunteer service ever desirable?” The ques-
tion arises, during this period of unemployment,
from the need of additional leadership in recrea—
tional work.

Within the past five years the number of our
volunteers at the Dover Neighborhood House in
New Hampshire has grown from a dozen to fifty,
serving an increase of from two hundred children
and adults to six hundred and fifty, who come
each week after school hours and in the evening
for clubs of educational and recreational nature.
This increase of numbers led to the addition, a
year ago, of an airy'new room to the simple little
old-time house now in the heart of the foreign
district with its syringa-arched entrance and at-
tractive lawns, where children of industrial fam-
ilies and of fourteen nationalities gather.

The director and assistant are dependent upon
the volunteer group leader who freely and gladly
meets these boys and girls so eager for a club, for
an hour devoted to the project in hand and an
added half hour of story, song or game. The last
week in September the children register, choose
their clubs and are appointed to their day and
hour. It 'may be for sewing, cooking, music, whit-
tling or whatever interest the age naturally craves.

The leader takes a group of eight or ten chil-
dren. As the number increases, the group is
divided and an added leader is found. Several
years ago one frail little lady hesitatingly took a
group of six little girls in
sewing. Before long it be—
came a group of thirty-live.
Several, leaders were found
for it, and the first leader,
stirred by the success of her
project, became the super-
intendent of the depart—
ment, and with her assist—
ants was able to meet the
situation without overwear-
iness. That same group

382

IT 18 of the blessed type of volunteer worker

(a.

The recreation executives, at their meeting
held in connection with the International
Recreation Congress, stressed over and over
again the Fact that in this period of reduced
budgets, as in no Former period in the history
of the recreation movement, volunteer lead- 501181 inteI’eSt assured
ership must be sought out and utilized. Be-
cause of the importance and timeliness of
this subiect, RECREATION will publish a series
of articles on the use of volunteers. The
First comes From a community worker who
has had much experience with volunteers,

now enrolls some seventy-five little girls. W l
the leader is chosen, she is appointed to the gro
for which she is best” fitted through her natu
abilities and experience. That which she has
ceived through her training, whether it be mu
dancing or household arts, she passes on. C
lege girls, for in our case the State University
near, often find practice work here for wh'
they receive points in their courses.

The successful volunteer worker is prompt a
carries a sense of responsibility. She is wh
heart'edly interested in her work and in each
dividual child. She acquires a knowledge of l
proportions of the work carried on and her 0
relationship to the whole. She feels the joy
the work, nor does she approach it as a ch
that must be done or with the spirit of “w
have-they—hit—on-me ?” If absence is necessa
she sends early notification for a substitute, '.
whether she is there or not, the children are
failingly there and must be met lest their c
fidence in the house be shaken. Her absen
though short notice be given, should always
accepted cheerfully and as her right. In fact, t
it is always her right should be presented wh
her help is first requested. That freedom, if
interest is real, will make her a more valua
helper. A list of substitutes should be a part

' the system.

There must be a keen watchfulness and upho
ing of this much needed worker for, strong in 0
line, she may falter in another. Ideals must
presented, methods 5
gested, discipline urged, a
couragement given a n
above all, an easy social I
lationship with the direct
established, and their p

that same personal inter
that she in turn is to :1
to her group. To acco
plish this frequent meeti
of the group leaders

 

 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
 

st helpful. One can be tucked into the end of
‘n a busy day by making the playtime period of
- children under the right leadership an oppor-
iity to furnish demonstration work. A talk by
experienced person may follow on some sub-
t closely allied to the work. After that a social
t and a cup of tea give a pleasant close to the
hering.
rom what sources do we get these leaders?
‘ directors must know their community. There
- alert high school girls to call upon; there are
ng wives with fine training of former days to
e; there are experienced home makers and
ssmakers who have less busy days than they
e had, musical people who are glad to give an
r and a half a week. There are quiet home
k, too worn or too timid to go out, who gladly
pare at home materials for the needed project,
1 ofiice workers with free evenings who are
rested in welfare work.
ow do we stir their interest? The directors
st study their workers. It is only fair that this
vice asked should be an opportunity to the
r as it is to those who receive. The volunteer
ker through this leadership many times finds
eyes opened to her own wider possibilities.
- sometimes finds her channel for further study
J life work. Many times we have been called
11 to write letters of approval for our girls in
v of later positions. Again, this service has
ken the monotony of humdrum days for other
ers; it has been an outlet for stified ambi-
s; it has given a training for private class
k at some later time.
‘ e once called on a young married woman
se hands were not too full, asking that she
a half dozen, fifteen minute piano lessons a
She cited her clubs, bridge engagements
other demands. In spite of various sugges-
5 she continued her refusal, but was left with
thought that time spent in this way brought a
and satisfaction that many other things lack.
- days later she telephoned a change of mind.
three years she gave her hour and a half a
k. She withdrew for a year and then asked
turn. She had missed the joy of the work.
he same fine spirit appeals to and lures even
overworked high school girl whose social de-
a s are so great. There are several big-hearted
(15 who never refuse when (1011 clothes must
it out for a sewing class, patterns drawn for
ittling project or sewing cards prepared for
kindergarten. These things are taken for
it work with ample time to do them. As for

THAT BLESSED VOLUNTEER WORKER! 383

materials, the piece bags of the community offer
silks, cottons and woolens; the printers find odds
and ends of scrap paper; the paper-hanger fur-
nishes wallpaper samples, and mill ends in cotton
are given for the cooks’ caps and aprons. \Ve be-
long to the community and are its responsibility.
Thus through volunteer service the life of the
community is enriched. Those who have received
are sharing with those who have less, a fact
which starts a leveling process. Many little peo—
ple and also adults come to know the power of
organization, and realize the joy of getting to-
gether. They find new friends, new ideals and
avenues of appeal under stress of circumstances.
The community conscience is stirred and the work
that is carried on blesses the whole community.

Writing in the Philadelphia Ledger, Sarah D.
Lowrie, in commenting on the plans developed
last summer by Charles H. English for securing
volunteers to aid in the work of the Bureau of
Recreation, addresses some very pertinent re-
marks to those who would be volunteers.

“One has to understand children and play, and
have the knack of helping without interfering.
One has to like the job of ‘minding,” and be apt
as a story teller, and deft as a teacher of little
tasks for little fingers. But there are, fortunately
for the race, a lot of unemployed men and women
and boys and girls who are possessed of this
knack of imparting simple knowledge without re-
sorting to too much discipline. There are born
caretakers, born playfellows.

“In. asking for volunteers to do the work the
paid workers were at least appointed to do last
year, accent is laid on fitness for the job plus will-
ingness. There is no use, if you do not care much
for children, in making a duty of the job without
pleasure. No perfunctory workers, no dull-
minded watchers need apply. It will not be hot
enough and tiresome enough and strenuous
enough for the best fitted, without any handicap
of unfitness.

“It has got to be a faithful volunteer, too, fer
the safety as well as the happiness of children will
depend on who is there. If you are lazy or are
tired or are severe, try another job. Or if you
have been a failure with children in your own
home, best take the hint and stay away.

“But if you know that you have it in you to
make a good job of it and have the time and en-
ergy and the impulse, what better school of prac-
tice could you ask, or for the matter of that, what
better line of public service ?”

 

An Invasion of Youth

  
  

By ALFRED E. PARKER

Director of Physical Education
High School, Berkeley, California

quarter the crowd was admitted to the stands. ‘
officer usually sat near them with a menacing lo
upon his face and a large club in his hand, tern
ing anyone toItry to leave his seat.

 

VER in the boys’ section of the California
Memorial Stadium a mighty roar disturbs
the stillness of the afternoon, a roar back-

ed by a dynamo of ten thousand strong, youthful
throats. It is a signal that the California Varsity
football squad is coming. And sure enough, as
the roar reaches its height, the “Golden Bears”
romp onto the field! And at every football game
in the California stadium (except at reserved
seat games) this roar is heard because the boys’
section is just opposite the north tunnel, com—
manding the first view of the “Bears” as they run
onto the field.

The boys’ section came into being as the solu-
tion of a problem with which universities all over
the United States have battled. In previous years
hundreds of boys stormed the fences around the
California Stadium, and officials and policemen
found that trying to keep back this army was like
trying to stop a herd of stampeding cattle; it could
not be done! But the problem has been success-
fully solved in Berkeley under the leadership of
Harry H. Stoops, a recreation and boys’ leader,
by the provision of a free section in the stadium
for all boys fourteen years of age and under.
Boys from any locality in the state are admitted,
and on the first Saturday fully ten thousand boys
sit in the free section, coming from as far away
as Sacramento, ninety miles from Berkeley. The
average attendance for each game has been about
eight thousand boys.

The boys’ section had its beginning in the days
of the California Wonder teams, back when the
famous “Brick” Muller was playing for the
“Bears.” Harry Stoops was then one of the
crowd of seventy-five boys who waited to gain
entrance to the game. At the end of the third

384

Upon the completion of
the new stadium the num-
ber of boys increased to
about 300. They were
seated in a small section
which was surrounded by
rope and guarded by nu-
merous policemen. Those
other youngsters who did
not like the idea of seeing
a football game from this
enclosure caused consider-
able trouble for the gate-
men and fence guards
around the stadium. This
situation proved to be
quite a troublesome prob-
lem to the management.

Three years ago Mr.
Stoops, then a student at
the University of Cali-
fornia, was given complete
charge of the section and
a new solution to the prob—
lem was formulated. The,
method of handling the
boys’ section was changed.
All ropes and policemen
were removed. The sec—-
tion was made larger and
moved closer to the other
spectators. The boys were
invited to attend the games
either in groups or indi-
vidually. The section was
to be theirs and they were
the ones to enjoy it. If
they were not interested

 

AN INVASION OI‘ YIN"? [I 3933

in seeing the football games, then their Ilrt'bt'lhl‘
was not wanted. Publicity was eirrtuaml mn
erning the new undertaking, and mun the err-ml-
incrcased a thousand per cent
‘ard was formulated and 10,0”: of thew um
)rinted and ready for distribution

\11 adv v 3.41. m

I Contacts were made with reereatiun depart
ments in and around Berkeley, and pla) ground
lirectors brought groups of hit)" tu .me hundred
nd fifty boys to each of the games ()Iher hwy
rganizations were invited to attend. lhpy Scouts.
“'..\[.C.A.’s, Junior Traffic Police, sehuuls \ hureh
, 1troups and boys’ clubs being the most important
| roups. An attempt was made to see that the
Inderprivileged boy was given a chance to see

 

thrust gal « (wanna {warn the r't'af. dumb air-i

Mind M'il-mi- u' :-' W111” mi t-t‘ui 71w mti #11:-
.tttc‘u'lui HI 1mm w-'u r i 1' by AA» 't ['hh‘li
In Inn I i-h '-~ an t '-' .le " I-( i-tw' ullil
wnlIlt‘ grim}. 2113'!" H '_" “ll i H' .a '\ vhf. If

luwsiitlu. liml' :l-sui' unn'u t n u u ~; Wraith in!“
iii-o grim]! Hull. liu lllm' h in. u' l'ju a. " ain't]
the gamc wa~uu1 U. 'W- a l- H s "1 .tlem wf
tilseiplim “a. 1m 'tlm-nl MN m N- 4H1” lll’ls.
\ttellrlam't- 1": :1“ rhv 1;I.'r}g'- a“  ~ '1 - greats-s!
m I'llllllik‘f,‘ int (11'. u 1. ‘urganur - - v 1'
()aklaml 1(t‘\l'{ta'iun “crammid 'w' -u courage
uf one to tun lilllllr-éllui per gu-rlt'. .i u "w He-r
keley Reereaumn l’t partnwu mm. ‘-l~ Hum six
pla) grounds haul in aseragt attend I" t' on game
of two thousand to the stadium. ( )1 m1- m nation

 

—---z_—-r

386 AN INVASION OF YOUTH

departments to send organized groups were Rich-
mond, San Francisco, San Leandro and Alameda.

In addition to the leader who accompanied each
group, a club of twenty boys of high school age
aided the director of the section in handling the
attendance. These boys were experienced in the
tricks of the game, having attended games them-
selves in the past. They were interested in their
work and took a real pride in giving their best.
They served as gatemen, ushers and attendants,
and performed any other duty necessary to the
welfare of the organization. They were paid for
their work.

Special groups came on special days and were
given the choice seats of the section. These groups
included Junior Traffic Police, Y. M. C. A. and
playground groups. Yell leaders were chosen and
emblems and megaphones provided as an addi—
tional means of making the boys’ section more
interesting to the young football fans. Yells and
stunts were practised until this energy, which had
at one time caused trouble, was put to good use.

The cost of this complimentary recreational
feature amounted to about $300 per year. This
included the salaries of the director and his as—
sistants, the printing of the 10,000 cards, the
mimeographing of the announcements, and the
postage for mailing the announcements and cards.

The question is immediately asked: why should
the University of California enter into such an
activity? Why should it spend $300 a year to
make it possible to allow forty thousand boys to
see football games free of charge?

There are a number of reasons. First of all,
the boys’ section has solved the problems invar-
iably accompanying the efforts of small boys to
see the games—-—problems involving interference
with the public who have paid admission, and the
disappearance of any articles misplaced by spec-
tators—for small boys are notoriously ardent
sonvenir collectors!

Moreover, the forty thousand boys who saw
six or seven games were, the University found,
the best and cheapest advertisement for the entire
football season. They were messengers of good
will from the University to their homes and
friends. They interested their parents so much
that Dad and Mother came to see where Sonny
was spending his Saturday afternoons. Forty
thousand future football fans were being taught
to like the game, thereby creating a desire to see
future contests. Californians were being created
through the splendid music and yells which be-

  
   
  
  
  
   
 
    
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
   

came a part of this young army. Having seen |
football players, the band and the huge cheer
section, they, too, wanted some days to belong
one of these organizations. Finally, future
terial for football teams was being developed
allowing teams of small boys to play between
halves of the Freshman and Varsity games.

This plan which California-has so gracio
adopted has solved many problems and has c
tributed much in those free afternoons of en
tainment for thousands of boys. It is a plan t
many other universities can well afford to ad
as a complimentary recreational afternoon
boys.

“Obviously not everyone can participate
active play and so enjoy an outlet for what
sometimes called excess energy, but what is
reality incompletely utilized aggression.
everyone can be a ball player, a champion sk
or swimmer, an automobile racer, an aviator 0
movie star. What is to be done about it?

“Fortunately, these outlets can be obtai
vicariously through the mental mechanism kn
as identification. This is one of the most im
tant mechanisms utilized in the training of
child and in the mental life of the adult. It
pears everywhere. The child identifies with
parent, be it for good or for evil. The adolesc
identifies with his ideal and so takes on the ch
acteristics of the ideal, through imitation.
reader of a novel identifies with the characters
the novel and so may escape temporarily the d
realities of life. In like manner we identify
the characters of the play or movie we .
witnessing.

“And so through the process of identificati
the spectators of athletic contests derive an 0
let for their aggressive impulses as  they w
the players themselves. Witness a hundred th
sand people rising breathless as one man dur
the execution of a brilliant end—run or forw
pass! . . . . The great safety outlet for unutili
aggression has always been in the play and sp
of the people, from the Olympic games of Gre
from the arena of the Romans, down through
Knightly tournaments of the Middle Ages to
modern athletic contest. Those who cannot ac
ally participate derive a vicarious outlet thro
identification with the participants.”—_Arthur
Timme, A.B., M.D., Psychiatrist, Los Ang
Public Schools.

 

he Christmas Tree—

A Beloved Traditio n

By MARIE F. HEISLEY

Forest Service
United States Department of Agriculture

For the origin of the Christmas tree
tradition we go back many centuries.

HE ORIGIN of the Christmas tree is lost in the
maze of antiquity. The ancient Egyptians
decked their houses at the time of the winter

tice with date palm,_ the symbol of life tri-
phant over death. Later the Romans, cele-
ting their feast of Saturn in the midwinter,
ed aloft a conifer as a sign of joy. Some

k this custom was carried by the Romans to

various peoples they conquered.

I he Christmas tree idea has also been ascribed
Scandinavian origin. It has been connected
1 Ygdrasil, the great ash tree of Norse myth-
y. The roots and branches of Ygdrasil, the
1d tree, or the tree of time as it is sometimes

(1, bound together the earth, the heavens, and

lower regions. According to another Scandi-

'an legend the Christmas tree owes its begin-

‘_S to the service-tree which sprang from soil
had been drenched by the blood of two lovers
1y murdered. During the Christmas season
ing lights sprang mysteriously from its
ches at night. The practice of illuminating the
istmas tree might.be traced to this tradition.

Its were (and still are) a featUre of the Jew-

Feast of Chanuca, or Lights. Christmas is
n as the Feast of Lights among the Greeks.
charming legend of Anglo-Saxon origin

 

credits the Christmas tree to St. \Vinfrid, or St.
Boniface, as he is usually called. In the midst of
a crowd of converts the good Saint hewed down
a giant oak which had been an object of worship
by the Druids. As the bright blade of the ax
circled above his head and the flakes of wood
flew from the deepening cut in the tree, a whirl-
ing wind passed over the forest. It tore the oak
from its foundation. The tree fell backward,
groaning as it split apart in four huge pieces. Just
behind it and unharmed by the fall, stood a young
fir tree, its green spire pointing towards the stars.
V’Vinfrid dropped the ax and turned to speak to
his people:

“This little tree, the young child of the forest,
shall be your holy tree tonight. It is the wood of
peace, for your houses are built of its hr. It is
the sign of endless life, for'its leaves are ever-
green. See how it points upward to heaven. Let
this be called the tree of the Christ-child. Gather
around it. It will shelter no deeds of blood, but
loving gifts and rites of kindness."

Be its origin what it may, the Christmas tree
has come down to us a beautiful symbol of hap-
piness and family ties. It is as beloved by “grown-
ups” as by children. Whether or not it is to con-

(Continued on page 403)
387

 

--‘-A “w‘ —~

The Lighted School House

77 — .r

"Go to your lighted
school house,”Milwau-

l<ee urges its citizens.
"Play-Study-Create.”

cial centers conducted by

the Extension Depart-
ment, Milwaukee Public Schools,
were once more opened to the
public with classes, clubs and
activities covering a wide variety
of subjects.

ON SEPTEMBER 19th the so-

Classes

Applied arts
Beauty culture of food
Dressmaking Remodeling of worn gar-
Furniture making ments
Home care of sick Leather tooling
Lip reading Metal work
Knitting and crocheting Needlework
Lamp shade Plaque work
Miniature aircraft— Reed furniture weaving
Construction and Flying Rug making
Patchwork, quilts Sewing
Textile painting

Preparation and serving

Athletic and Game Activities

Gymnasium classes for men and women

Basketball, volley ball, indoor 'ball for men and women

Boxing, active games, billiards, table games, checker
clu’bs, chess clubs

(Instruction given in beginner’s and advanced chess.)

Literary Organizations

Citizenship classes English for foreign born
Debating clubs Public speaking
Parliamentary law classes

Music Organizations

Bands, orchestras, mandolin clubs, ukulele clubs, har-
monica bands, singing clubs, minstrel troupes, voice
placement classes.

388

 

Milwaukee’s lighted school houses make leisure ti
show profits in terms of health, knowledge. happin °

Dramatic Clubs

Play reading, play production, voice placement, c :
tume designing, stage setting and scenery
(Drama clubs will conduct practical work sho
Their plays will lbe presented on the Little Thea
Nights at the different social centers.)

Dancing Classes

Tap dancing, interpretive dancing, folk dancing, b
room dancing .’

Civic and Social Organizations

Parent-Teacher Associa- Men’s community clubs '
tions Social clubs

Civic clubs Married people’s social

Parent training classes clubs

Women’s Neighborhood Girl Scouts

clubs Boy Scouts

Special Community Features

Lectures, recitals, entertainments, motion pictures
Saturday evening dances
Saturday children’s entertainments

Reading Rooms and Library Stations

The daily papers are on tile in each social centenl
splendid list of the most popular magazines is I
ceived regularly. Five social centers are Milwa .
Public Library Stations.

«Developing
Community

highest point of effectiveness and to be

of the greatest service to the community,
it must develop a community consciousness
and love for the center in the individuals and
in the clubs that use it. The community cenn
ter must make the clubs and their individual
members feel that they are an integral part of
the whole center; that they have a voice in the
projects; that its honor and reputation are in
their keeping.

\Vhen the Central Avenue Community Cen~
ter conducted by the Department of Recrea-
tion, Board of Education, .Tewark, New Jer-
scy, was opened, the staff decided that one of
its main objectives would be the developing
of such a community Spirit. “"ith this in mind
certain definite projects were planned, the
completion of one project naturally leading to
others. Some of these projects have been
small, but the cumulative effect has been very

FOR A community center to develop to its

 

Not a new problem, but one which confronts .
every community center director who is work-
hg to develop values which will be lasting.

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

By JACOB W. FELDMAN

Director, Central Avenue Community Center
Newark, New Jersey

great, and a majority of the individuals and
clubs of the center have obtained that feeling
of love and loyalty which helps to make a suc-
cessful community center. While this article
is being written, two months before the cen-
ter Opens its winter activities, thirty two clubs
have come in to make arrangements tn con
duct their respective )‘irngrams I'm the ' aming
season. Their reason for applying w earl‘
is that they want to be sure to 1,01 intr the
center. Last Season there were sewn!) six
organized groups meeting here.

Developing Community Spirit
How have these results been accomplished“
Many of the steps taken in «lexeluj-m; the
community spirit which exists among the peo-
ple of the neighborhood have presented them-

3Cl\ es as the program has th\C1"l.‘Ctl
One of the tirst (liftitulties we encountered
at our center was that a child, asked to do

389

390 DEVELOPING. COMMUNITY CENTER LOYALTY

something, would immediately say, “What do
I get out of it?” The answer was. ,“Nothing;
it is for the center.” Children were made to
understand that they were free to refuse to do
the things asked of them, but that if they did
do them it was because they wanted to help
the center. _At first there were a great many
refusals, but as the children saw the ideal back
of our requests the refusals became less and
less frequent, and at the present time we have
very few. When a child did something for the
center we made it a point to always thank
him. One of the things that helped to over-
come the “what-do—I-get” attitude was that
we created some interesting jobs and made
it appear that it was a privilege to do them.
One of these jobs is the mimeographing and
assembling of a monthly magazine consisting
of from twelve to eighteen pages and from 250
to 300 c0pies. To issue this
magazine requires considerable
manual labor, all of it supplied
by the children of the play~

five afternoons to mimeograph
an issue, and from twelve to

count and collate an issue. Of

course there are different chil—

dren working at different times, but we have
yet to hear a child say, “What do I get out
of it?”

During the season of 1930-31 we found we
needed certain types of equipment such as
benches, table tops, horses and baseball bases.
When the manual training shop opened in the
summer of 1931 we called the boys together
and explained to them how the equipment
would help us. in making the center a better
place to come to and of greater service to the
neighborhood. N 0 one would be required to
work on the center projects, we told them, but
if they did work on them it would be because
they wanted to and willing to help the center.
The response from the boys was splendid. They
made all the equipment we had planned for
and displayed a fine spirit in doing it. As we
use the equipment we sometimes hear a boy
say with pride, “I helped to build that l”

The equipment made in the shop included
one box hockey box; one ping pong table;
twenty—four ping pong paddles; four flat table

' first was very noisy so we started to appo

In planning your community ment.
center program you will find
, _ many helpful'suggestions for
ground. It takes 's1x children facilities, program planning‘
and administration in the
uConduct of Community

fourteen children four hours to Eyeggzri’l:gie

  
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  

tops, three by eight feet; eight large hors
thirty—six small horses on which to place k'
dergarten tables; three sets of baseball bas
one baseball pitching standard; twelve pad
tennis paddles, and one jack stone board. D
ing the Winter of 1932 we made a flower g
den in front of the school for which we nee
some equipment. This was made in the s .
mer shop of 1932. The boys displayed the sa
fine spirit that they had shown the previ
summer and made thirty dahlia sticks, ei
large trellises and some bird houses. T
also made a large bulletin board and a set
baseball bases.

During the season We have a number
functions in the auditorium of the center.

different clubs to act as ushers at these affai
The clubs all like the honor of being ush
and the behavior of the audie
has shown a marked impro

Because the center’s staff
limited in number it was nec
sary to let the different cl
meet without continuous ad
supervision. The problem
taking care of the facilities whi
the different clubs used was
very serious one. There were two metho
possible: one was to try to police the buildi
the other was to place the responsibility
protecting the property directly upon the clu
themselves. We adopted the latter meth
All clubs must leave the facilities that th
use in the same condition that they fou
them. If anything is missing or broken t
club is held responsible. The clubs have
sponded remarkably well to this responsibil'
and it has done as much as any one thing
create the spirit we were working for. In t
two seasons the center has been open no ma
rial damage has been done to the building
any room in it. Each group has been made
feel that whatever it does will effect not 0
itself but every other group that meets in t
center. We have only one rule of conduct,
act like ladies and gentlemen. It is interesti
to see old members tell newcomers now w
they can and cannot do.

A severe test of the effectiveness of t
system was made last Christmas. Every cla

    
   
   
  
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  

had a decorated Christmas tree with its
sv and breakable Christmas decorations.
gee debated as to whether or not it would
advisable to call off all meetings until the
were removed. \Ve finally decided to let
lubs meet and test the effectiveness of our
em. It worked! Nothing was disturbed
ny of the rooms and only one ornament
down and broke. I do not want you to get
impression that nothing ever goes wrong
he meeting rooms. Things do happen.
ry now and then some magazine or a book
, disappear. Then the club has to replace
missing article; we do not try to fix indi-
al responsibility.

0 help develop community spirit we have

a all the clubs of the center. The first ac-
y of this type was the monthly magazine,
Centralia. The editorial staff was selected
the. different clubs. Each club appoints
porter. The editorial and reportorial staffs
t twice a month. The Centralz'a has been a
t aid in developing community spirit. This
azine has become so great a part of the
munity life that the members look forward
ch issue and some of them have a com-
- file of all issues.

‘ ’e were able to arrange for periods at the
swimming pool for boys and girls. This
done much to develop a spirit of comrade-
» among the members of the different clubs.
year various clubs ran social dances on
rday night at which a small admission fee
charged. The people who came to these
es were neighborhood folks. Clubs, too,
ld attend. The behavior was excellent.
'ng the season it was necessary to ask only
men to leave the floor. The club that was
ing the dance had complete charge and
embers worked hard to make it a success.
e clubs at the center have made great
ress in dramatics, so much so that next
we shall have a drama festival. This year
1 clubs arranged programs of one-act plays
hich they invited other clubs. This not
creates a friendly feeling among the clubs
it acts as an incentive to the other clubs
0 something in drama. The reason that

'e been so successful in getting our clubs

ted in dramatic productions is that when
tarted we were fortunate enough to have

ned activities that would draw participants ‘

DEVELOPING COMMUNITY CENTER LOYALTY 391

a really serious drama group join our center.
The first thing this club did was to build a
complete set of scenery. Since most of the
members worked during the day and a num-
her of them attended night school, it was
necessary for them to build this set on Sunday.
It required three Sundays to build and paint
the set. They did such a fine piece of work
that after two years of constant use the set
shows very little depreciation.

Our clubs are always having parties. As
we did not have a tablecloth and food had to
be served on a bare table, we asked the girls'
clubs to make a tablecloth. napkins, dish tow-
els and pot holders. They made a complete
set out of unbleached muslin with the center’s
initials on them. A group using the set laun-
ders it so that it will be ready for the next
group. This has done much to develop a spirit
of co-operation among the clubs and a feeling
of belonging to the center.

\Vhen the center opened there was an un-
friendly feeling between the Italians and the
colored people in our district. Our program
has done a great deal to break this down. An
example occurred when the Douglas Debating
Society, a colored group, wanted music at one
of its debates. As there was no colored or-
chestra rehearsing at the center at that time,
we asked the Casino Club Orchestra, com-
posed of Italian young men, to play. They
consented to give their services free of charge

for the program and also played for the dance
which followed.

Joint activities drawing from all the clubs
have been very helpful in creating a good
spirit. The Home Nursing and Hygiene So-
ciety, a colored group, arranged for a series of
health lectures to which they invited all the clubs.
There were five lectures and all were well at-
tended by both white and colored members.
The chorus of fifty voices and the symphony
orchestra of forty pieces draw members from
all the clubs of the center. These organizations
have done much in developing the community
spirit and in enriching the cultural life of our
community.

Dancing plays a large part in the social life
of our members. Finding that a large number
of our boys did not know how to dance we
organized a dancing class open to any one that

(Continued on page 404)

 

 

If it is not to be “just another dance”
careful planning ahead is an essential.

Dancing in the Social

Recreation Program

By H. D. EDGREN

Department of Physical Education
Y. M. C. A. College, Chicago

social dance has become just as real as the

need for leadership in the game program.
This is especially true if the committee is con-
cerned with the total outcomes of a given dance
program. All too often committees are content
with supplying the hall and furnishing an or—
chestra, feeling that their job is then complete.
Can we st0p there if we ask ourselves questions
of, this type?

(I) What are the objectives of this dance and
what are we going to do to help realize them?
(2) What about the bashful boy and modest girl
coming to our party? (3) What about the poor
dancer who hesitates to exchange dances with a
good dancer? (4) Are we going to give the good
dancer a chance to become more tolerant and
friendly to someone else who may not dance so
well? (5) Are we going to finish the program
with folks more friendly, more sociable, more
loyal to the group, or shall it have been “just
another dance”? (6) Are we going to be con-

392

THE NEED for leadership in the conduct of the

cerned about the formation of cliques? (7) ‘
we going to be concerned lest a young man or 3
get “stuck” with a single partner for the ent
evening? (8) Finally, shall it be a social da
or an individual dance with the same cou
dancing together most of the evening?

Planning and Conducting the Program

The master of ceremonies chosen to lead
social dance program should study and anticip
the particular needs of the guests. The followi
considerations enter into his planning: Are I
people who are coming acquainted with one .
other? Will they come in couples? Will there
more of one sex than the other? Will there
accommodations for people to be seated 1
entertainment ?

A well rounded dance program consists of th
types of numbers—individual (dance); gro
(singing, relays and similar activities) ; enterta
ment (solos, duets and comedy numbers).

On the master of ceremonies depends the s
cess of any mixer type of program. He sho
have a pleasing personality, a sense of humor
good voice loud enough to be heard but not I
sharp or autocratic, and he must be enthusia
and cheerful but clear and concise in giv
directions.

l
I
l

   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   

'perience has shown that the following points
the leader in making a program successful:

0 not talk down the noise; wait until all are
uiet. Have assistants in the audience to aid
t this point.

now exactly what you want the crowd to do;
've demonstration if necessary. Do not start
ntil all are ready.

hange a dance when it is at the height of its
uccess.

ove about in audience and be alert to needs
f your group.

'Iake sure that you have been properly intro-
uced so that the crowd recognizes you every
'me you appear.

‘ hen announcing orchestra or entertainment
umbers give brief but dignified introduction
0 all performers.

very dance presents a little different problem.
number of mixers desired will depend on the
ctives of the committee, the degree to which
group is acquainted, the size of the group, and
available space. For example, if an organi-
n is desirous only of providing a floor and
ic to a group of couples who wish to pick
. own partners for each dance, it is very ap-
nt that mixers would have little place at such
nce. If an organization is desirous of social-
: a given number of girls and boys, of de-
ping wholesome friendships, of developing
ties to an organization, of making strangers
welcome, then mixers and social stunts cer-
y do have a definite place as part of this
i of a dance program.

The Program

he following figures, formations and stunts
be suggestive in providing a means of chang-
partners and adding to the social outcomes of
'en dance:
Grand March. This is often used as a
l s of starting the program. Have all the men
up one side of the hall and girls on the other.
two lines march to one end to form couples
. girl taking the man’s arm), and march down
center. At the far end of
hall alternate couples,
termarch left and right
march to end to form
’5. This is continued
all have partners and 9mm.
the dancing begins. If

At many community centers this winter
dancing will be a feature of the program.
There are many questions to be answered
it the dance is to be a genuinely social
affair and a real contribution to the pro-
Mr. Edgren offers a number of
practical suggestions.

DANCING IN THE SOCIAL RECREATION PROGRAM 393

desired more intricate figures may be formed.

2. Circle Mixer (Paul Jones). Players form a
double circle, girls inside, men outside. When the
music begins, both circles march clockwise. At a
given signal, such as the sound of a whistle, a
chord or dischord on the piano, or the like, the
men about face and march in the opposite direc-
tion. The girls continue in the original direction.
At a second signal both circles stop marching and
each man takes the girl opposite him as a partner
for a short dance. If there are more men than
girls, the extra men remain in the center of the
floor. If there are extra girls, the girls remain in
the center. When a signal is given for the danc-
ing to stop, couples form a double circle and re-
peat the above. The extra men or girls remain in
the circle until the signal for the men to about
face. At this time they join the circle of men
marching counter clockwise and try their luck
securing a partner.

There are a number of variations of the circle
mixer.

(a) Change about and have the girls about face
and do the hunting for a partner.

(1)) Instead of marching by couples have each
circle join hands facing inward and skip to the
right. On whistle one designated line skips in the
other direction and partners are formed when a
second signal is given.

(c) Introduce grand right and left. The men
and girls march in circle formation in couples
with the men on the girls’ right. \Vhen the first
signal is given each man about faces, takes his
partner’s right hand in his right hand and then
marches in the other direction in grapevine
fashion left hand to next girl, then right hand,
etc. When signal is given he dances with girl he

is about to meet.

3. Number Dance. Numbers are given to each
girl and man when they enter the hall. For this
dance the men must find the girl with correspond-
ing number. A number of variations may be used.

(0) Have odd numbers dance with any other
odd number. No. I may dance with Numbers 3.
5, 7, etc., and even numbers
may dance with even numbers.

(b) Opposite dance to-
gether; odd with even num-
bers and vice versa.

(c) Have groups of num-
bers dance together. Anyone

 

394 DANCING IN THE SOCIAL RECREATION PROGRAM

having a number between 1-8 may dance with
anyone within that group.

4. Name Dance. When the number is not large
and the group is acquainted, the girls may draw
names for partners.

5. Robbers’ Dance. As the name implies, ex—
tra men or girls are allowed to cut in and take a
partner at any time during this dance. En joy-
ment is added to the dance if some article is
given to the person robbed of a partner. These
articles may be a lemon, scarecrow, an old broom
dressed as a lady, a baby carriage, manikin doll,
or tailor dummy. A forfeit may be exacted from
anyone having the article when the dance stops.

6. Hungarian Roundel. _Simple folk dances
may be taught to a new group in a single evening.
In this dance the group forms a large circle hold-
ing hands, alternating girl with man and facing
inward. On signal the entire group skips eight
steps to the right, eight steps to the left, four
steps to the center, four steps back, four steps
to the center and four steps back; repeat eight
right and left: and then girls go counter clockwise
and men clockwise. Grand right and left (as ex—
plained in mixer No. 3), right hand to partner,
left hand to neighbor, etc. On second signal man
begins to dance with partner opposite him.

7. Back to Back. The men line up on one side
of the hall and the girls on the other side, facing
outward away from the center. On a given signal
both groups walk slowly backwards until the lines
meet, when they take partners and dance.

8. Mass Mixer. The men are asked to form a
huddle in the center of the floor. The girls join
hands and form a circle outside of the men. They
skip, slide, step or march until a signal is given
when each girl rushes to the center to select a
partner for the next dance. Men and girls may
be reversed here for variation.

9. Everyone Change. On a signal from the
orchestra or the master of ceremonies everyone
must find new partners. A variation of this is to
place a large broom in the center of the floor.
All eyes are on this broom, for it is announced
that anyone with a partner may at any time go
and step on this broom, lift the handle and let it
snap on the floor. This is a signal for all to
change.

10. Quick Reactions. In a smaller group where
players are somewhat acquainted, stunts may be_

 

 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  

added and used as a means of finding part
The man cutting in on a couple taps the man
proceeds to try to confuse him by naming a
of himself and taking hold of some other
e.g. “This is my nose,” as he takes hold I
ear. The man opposite him should then
the exact Opposite and say, “This is my e
he takes hold of his nose. If successful, t
continues to dance with his original p

Otherwise he must give up his partner
other man.

11. Double the Number. Everyone joins
and forms a large circle around the hall. A
couple dances a short dance. As the music
each of them must select new partners. Thi
tinues until all are chosen, the number 0
floor doubling with each new dance.

12. Introductions. One of the difficulties
dances is the unfriendly spirit which som
develops when the partners are taken awa
this number the tagger introduces himself
he tags a couple. He says, “My name is J
The man tagged introduces himself, then his
ner, and leaves her to his new acquaintance.

13. Find Your Wrap.* (For Small Grou
The men go into the coatroom, choose a 1
wrap or hat, put it on and return. The 
asked to find the man wearing her garment
to dance with him.

14. Pick Your Foo.t.* All the girls go up 0
platform and poke one foot under the cur
The men line up on the other side. Each cho
a foot and dances with the girl whose foot he
chosen.

Intermission. This is to ‘give the orchest
rest, but the crowd is usually willing to be ac
and a splendid opportunity is offered for in
ducing a different activity. Entertainment in
form of a program number will allow the pla
to relax and enjoy watching a performance
some kind. Many groups enjoy a good “5'
standing around the piano. This type of acti
keeps the group together and allows group I
ticipat‘ion in a common activity.

NOTE: All readers of RECREATION interested in s

recreation will want to secure a c0py of “Recreat'
Games and Programs” published by the N. R. A. '
$.50. ‘

* Margaret Busteed, April, 1932.
Companion. New York.

W oman’s

 

By DR. PHILIP L. SEMAN

General Director
Jewish Peoples Institute, Chicago

. RESIDENT HOOVER’S White House Conference
on Child Health and Protection is responsi-
'g ble for the statement that in the year 1930
i re were over eight million people who took
antage of camp life, three million of them
ldren in organized camps. This statement, in-
hating that about fifteen per cent of the total
a ulation of the United States enjoyed camping
'ities, is encouraging in view of the fact that
. only fifty years ago that Ernest Balch es-
lished a camp for boys on Lake Asquam in
‘ Hampshire, and that camping as such was
lrdly known prior to that period. We never-
ss hope that the time is not far distant when
fryone in America may have the opportunity
f spending at least a few weeks of every summer
ving an open-air life.

   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
   

 

Stay-at-home-camps—a new and important
development in the recreation program.

Even two weeks at camp will in time pay divi-
dends to society, for it takes the boy and girl
away from the hustle and bustle of superficial
city life that so often tends to kill the best that is
in young people, and gives them a chance to taste
the simple life of their sturdy forefathers. It
provides for them a complete change of scenery,
gives them new things to do and to think about,
bringing new friends, new experiences and new
obligations to them all, and making each camper
more self-reliant. It gives the camper the much
needed opportunity to express his savagery with-
out getting into jail! Just to be free, to run, to
climb, to swim, shout and to yell! No traflic rules,
no policeman, no nervous school teachers, no fussy
fineries—just an opportunity to live! To feel and
breathe the freedom of the open air and to live
the natural life is a wonderful privilege. It also
offers a first-hand contact with nature along with

39S

 

396

an opportunity to investigate her mysteries, to
chase butterflies, to collect odd bugs, stones and
flowers, to peep into birds’ nests,~’to listen to
strange woodland sounds, and to watch the simple
folk of the wild at play. Where else can one have
such an opportunity for real adventure?

There area number of camps in all large com-
munities that provide free or almost free camp-
ing privileges to the youngsters of families of a
low economic status, but there are entirely too
few even to touch the problem. This has been
particularly so during the last three summers.

The Jewish People’s Institute of Chicago. one
of the largest community centers in the United
States, recognizing this problem, has thought in
terms of providing facilities in order that the
child who could not attend a camp might have at
least some of the advantages of camp life through
the establishment of a day camp on its spacious
roof garden, a place large enough to take care of
three hundred children between the ages of live
and fifteen. _The camp, which began functioning
on the 20th of June and continued until the Fri-
day before the opening of the public schools, early
in September, was patterned after outdoor camps
in so far as the activities, organization and man-
agement were concerned.

The day camp stimulates cooperative work and
play, ’developes the boy and girl physically, gives
him individual guidance and attention and, en-
courages whatever talents the youth possessed.
The day camp is not a nursery school by another
name nor is it a playground. It offers a full day’s
activity, beginning with nine in the morning and
ending with four o’clock in each afternoon.

The 317 children registered were divided into
various groups
consisting of
h a n d i c r a f t
groups, manual
training classes,
dramatic classes,

'f o l k dancing
groups and mu-
sical classes.
Each group was
provided with a
home counsellor
who met with it
from nine to ten
o’clock. At ten
the groups ro—
tated. For ex-

CAMPING ON A HO USETOP

ample, the seven to eight and a half year 0
group met with their music counsellor from ni

to ten. At ten, the boys went to the manual trai

ing class and the girls to the sewing group. *
eleven, the boys and girls met with their dra I
counsellor; at twelve, they went back to th
home counsellor for their lunch period. (T
campers brought their lunches or purchased th
for a small sum.) During the lunch period t
counsellors took advantage of the opportunity
getting more intimately acquainted with the ch
dren. From one to two o’clock the children e
joyed a library hour, and from three to four t
met with their expression counsellor. At fo
the group returned to their home counsellor. 3*
fore dismissal the campers were all given dir
tions and instructions for the following day. T
was the regular procedure with the exception ‘
Thursday when the entire day camp visited plac
of educational interest, and of Friday morni
when much of the time was devoted to outdo
athletic games, including swimming. They r
turned for lunch and a rest, and in the afterno
the girls who were old enough were organiz
into Girl Scout patrols, while the others went
the park for nature study.

Special notice was taken of youngsters who h
food dichulties or who presented behavior pro
lems. These, and children who failed to m
social adjustments, were given careful attentio

It is infinitely more difficult to conduct a d
camp from the point of view of leadership tha
it is in the regular camp of two weeks or a long
period. This is due to the fact that the space

The day camp provides activities for children of -
ages. Careful attention is given the younger grou

 

m‘t.

l

'

 

      
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
 

confined and the coun-
rs are practically with
r' campers during the
re period when the day
p is functioning. For
reason every member
the staff is chosen for
ability to fit into the
. gram and for his under-
: n din g and tolerance.
ere must be inspiration
idealism reflected in the
vities of the counsellors. The members of the
" are given a careful examination in the duties
1 responsibilities that make Up their particular
'5. They all realize that the child’s mind is
y plastic and that whatever impressions are
1 e will in all probability be carried through the
'or part of the camper’s growing years, and,
haps, through his life’s experience.

ties for swimming.

he materials used for the craft work are pur-
sed in large quantities and sold to the campers
cost price. The articles made, therefore, are
ir own property, and after exhibiting them in
nection with the closing of the day camp they
y take the objects home with them.

The technique of registration was as follows:
e registration was handled through the infor-
tion desk on the main floor, and a record was
de of the name, age, address, telephone num-
i of the camper, the mother’s name, the father’s
ne and occupation, and the person by whom
child was referred. This information was
J. on File. The registrar prepared a yellow card
'ch was presented to the camper who, in turn,
sented it to the day camp physician. The phy-
'an gave the camper a thorough examination;
record of the camper’s health, together with
'membership card, was sent to the supervisor
lie camp. Part of the camper’s record was
by the supervisor and the other part was
- (1 over to the camper with the‘ request that
~' presented to the parent.

e day camp was located on the roof garden

- Jewish ' People’s Institute, four stories
2 the ground and out in the open, away from
dirt and grime of the streets. It seemed as
the campers, as well as their counsellors,
- direct communion with Nature, despite the
hat they were so far away from the real soil.
brellas were used to shelter the campers from
. much exposure to the sun. On exceedingly
t days the campers were provided with the roof

A variation of the stay-at-home camp idea
is day camping, which involves taking the
children in groups to public parks, woods or
privately owned estates which are within
easy access. Very often the day camp site
is a gift or a loan to the local organ-
izotion conducting the program. The camp
site should provide facilities for program,
protection from the elements, good drain-
age, ample sun and shade, a pure water
supply, plenty of fuel, and if possible facili-

CAMPING ON A HOUSETOP 397

garden sprinkler. This
sprinkler made it a great
occasion, and regardless of
the heat the campers faith-
fully came to report to their
counsellors, for this shower
from the hose was refresh-
ing even in anticipation.

And now a word about
some of the activities.

Because the day camp
youngsters were happy,
dancing represented a popular part of their pro-
gram. In contrast, the formal method was also
used with strong emphasis on technique and ballet
work. Camp dancing is free and represents
spontaneous action. When folk dancing was
taught the campers were told of the history of
the country typified by the dance, the customs
and the habits of the people represented by that
country.

Due to the extreme youth of the campers there
was a distinct necessity for informal play. It sur-
prised many of us what a wealth of knowledge
these youngsters had stored away which came to
the fore quite naturally during the informal play
period.

The handicraft work was very credible. The
boys worked on a model village as a project.
Houses_were made of cigar boxes; grass was
made from green crepe paper; a lake was created
from silver paper and glass; trees were con-
tributed by the girls’ handicraft class. The entire
village was wired; little electric globes were in-
serted in the houses and depot, and the whole
project was much admired by those who saw it
on the evening of the day camp exhibition.

In their music program the campers were
taught the history, trials and tribulations of the
Jewish people throughout the ages. All of the
campers came from Jewish homes. It was amaz-
ing to note the number of splendid songs these
campers learned. Songs with a very distinct na-
tional background were taught, some of them
hundreds of years old. Many of these same songs
were heard and sung by the great, great grand-
mothers and grandfathers of these campers. The
children hummed and sang the various Jewish
folk songs during their sewing period, library
period and sometimes during their rest hour.

Because children love to act and do act con-
tinually, dramatics offered a splendid Opportunity

(Continued on page 405)

World
at
Play

Courtesy “Parks and Recreation"

THE unusual ex-
perience of fishing
in a large residential
area has fallen to

Fishing on the
Playground

the lot of children of Salt Lake City due to the

activity of Commissioner of Parks, Harry L.
Finch, assisted by the State Fish and Game
Commission and the Salt Lake City Fish and
Game Association. Arrangements have been made
for the continual stocking and restocking of
spring—fed lakes in Fairmount Park. Here
every day hundreds of youthful anglers fish to
their heart’s content and catch not a few of
the mountain trout with which the lakes have
been stocked.

“DETROI’IT’S be-
loved b a n d con—
c'erts,” s t a t e s the
Detroit News of July
31st, “have triumphed over the city’s financial
situation because the musicians themselves re-
fused to put money above the happiness of
their listeners.” For the first time in thirty—
five years there were to be no concerts this
summer for a city appropriation was out of
the question. Then Mr. Herman W. Schme-

398

Band Concerts
in Detroit

Why leave home to go fishing? If
are a Salt Lake City angler, you cl

man, who for twenty—four years had conduct
the city’s concerts and who is president of t
Detroit Federation of Musicians, conceiv
the plan of using the Federation’s emergen
relief funds for paying the musicians and th
insuring the concerts. The city gladly acc
ted the offer, and concerts were given thr
times a week from August 4th until aft
Labor Day. Through this plan unemploy
musicians were aided and the citizens of I
troit enjoyed their usual concerts.

THE million m
in attendance at r
reation facilities a
e v e n t s has be
reached, according to the annual report of

Berkeley, California, Recreation Departm
recently issued. And this record, the rep
points out, may be attributed to leadership a
public support. “The million mark attendan
has been reached with corresponding decre
in the cost of supervision.” states the rep
“It is a significant fact that the entire recr
tional and park activities in parks, playgrou

 

Achieving the
Million Mark

 

 

_‘-_-_.

 
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   

school grounds cost each person in Berk-
approximately one-third of a cent per day.
- stitution for the housing and supervision
ree hundred delinquent boys could not be'
ted for the total cost of all the recrea-
l and park activities in Berkeley. It now
. Berkeley ten cents for each of the mil-
enjoying the activities of the recreation
ram.”

otato Week on the Playgrounds—There
weeks of all kinds, but Potato \Veek as
loped on the playgrounds of Hamilton,
da, is perhaps the newest and most timely.
purpose of the project, conducted in coop-
'on with the Civic Canning Kitchen, was
dd to the stock of vegetables being collec-
by the kitchen for the unemployed. Each
'ground devised its own method for “doing
bit." From one playground an army of
g collectors went about with small wag-
in a house to house canvass. For other-3
‘ e were baseball games and entertainments
various kinds with potatoes as entry fees.
- price of admission to one playground cir-
was two potatoes. There was keen rivalry
ween the various playgrounds to see which
ld make the largest contribution. The do-
ions were taken to relief stations in trucks.

n Francisco’s Play Day for Girls.—On
tember 24th girls from twenty-three play-
unds of San Francisco took part in a Play
_. at Funston Playground. The program,

eded by a parade, included basketball and
ley ball games 10:45 A.M.—12:20 P.M.;

cheon 12:20 P.M.—l :30 P.M.; exhibition
ketball games by leaders’ group and base-
1 from 1:30 to 3:00 PM. A trophy was
rded by the Recreation Commission in
rge of the event to the playground receiv-
the greatest number of points. Points
e given on the following basis: Parade four
. ts (greatest number entered, l, neatness,
inity of costume, 1, marching, l); basket-
l—winner two points; volley ball, two
ts; baseball, 2 points.

olunteers and Depression Problems.—Last
mer the Houston, Texas, Recreation Com-
ion was able to operate sixteen play-
nds because of the splendid spirit of the
yground workers in volunteering their ser—

WORLD AT PLAY 399

vices when a drastic retrenchment of program
was put into operation.

At the beginning of last summer, because
of the financial situation, it looked as though
it would be impossible to provide leadership
for the playgrounds in Chattanooga, Tennes-
see. A committee of citizens was organized
and some favorable public opinions created.
Though this committee was not successful in
securing additional funds for the municipal
playgrounds, it did work out a plan for pro-
viding volunteer service and helped to organ-
ize and supervise much of the adult recreation.
Commissioner Cash of the Department of
Utilities, Grounds and Buildings, in charge of
playgrounds, presented the facts regarding
the financial situation to all the employees of
the department as well as to the playground
workers. All employees, including the Com-
missioner himself, agreed to donate one week's
salary for the purpose of employing play-
ground workers. The playground workers on
their part agreed to work for about fifty per
cent less than many of them had been receiv-
ing. This cooperative plan made possible the
city’s summer playgrounds.

The most up—to-date and authoritative
information on the subject

THE CHILD AND PLAY

By
JAMES EDWARD ROGERS

DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION
SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

RECOMMENDED BY:

Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur: "I like it very
much. It is both stimulating and practical."

Dr. Smiley Blanton. author of "Child Guid-
ance”: "An excellent book."

Hygeia: "Deserves careful reading."

George 0. Drayer. Y.M.C.A. College: "Will
be welcomed by all who are interested in the

play of children."

Boston Eve. Transcript: "A surprisineg
complete picture of play facilities and pos-
sibilities.”

Lee F. Hanmer. of the Russell Sage Founda-
tion: "A splendid publication. . . attrac-
tive. readable. and helpful."

New York Times: "Very helpful."
ha. 205 pp. Price, $2.00

THE CENTURY CO.
353 FOURTH Ave.. New YORK, N. Y.

Illustrated

 

400 ' WORLD AT PLAY

   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

———-——l—_ Storytelling in Westchester County.—
= summer in the Green Room of the W
' chester County Center a group of eager c
dren met twice a week to listen to stories
counting the exploits of primitive man
of his groping to express himself in the .
Through the cooperation of librarians

teachers, Mrs. William  Creighton, the st
teller, was able to illustrate her stories w
pictures and lantern slides. To make the st
telling even more concrete and graphic,
children were taken into the workshop

ducted at the Center where they saw the
tery, sculpture, weaving and painting b
produced there——-the present day expressio
the art consciousness born in man ages .
Stories of primitive man were followed
tales Of succeeding epochs in history, w
man created his greatest artistic worka
Greece with its fascinating legends of m
ology to the American Indian tales and
colorful stories of early American life.

 

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children at play is the aim

offhe mOdem playground How'm' Schools Promote Harmonica Contest
portant to protect them from the dan- . .
gers and dirt in dust! ".5 so easy and Fifteen hundred boys and girls enrolled
it costs next to nothing more than fifty groups receiving instructio
harmonica playing during the present sc
yearwthis is the record of Long Beach,
.fornia. Groups are organized in elemen
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs, schools and junior high schools, and there

The photomicrogmphs pictured here additional groups among carriers and ne

showyou the results. 347cu|tures in the boys. The groups meet in school buildi I
untreated dust.0n|y3in the same dust weekly. The Recreation Commission is u '

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And

treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride. viding instruction through the services of r
full time and one part time instructor, and

Gm, . Board of Education provides the mee

5" DU" room, light, heat and janitor service. Mem

   

Before treatment Afterfreatmenf furnish their own harmonicas and instruc
books. During April city-wide district c
tests were held, the city being divided i
four districts for elementary groups and
additional district for junior high sc

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today For
Full information and booklet No. “59.

\ SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION C - o h 1d - h 1 .
9. -_-,-_ Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufac- groups. ompetltlon was e In t rec C a
turod by The Solvay Process Company —SOlOlStS, duos and bands. \VII‘IHCI‘S 1n
6] Broadway“ New York

various district contests met on May 2n
the convention hall of the municipal audi

S 0  I ium for the finals. An enthusiastic audie

   

TRADE MARK REG U 5'?” OFF of 3,500 people gathered for the finals.

 I  Out-Of-School Activities of High Sc

Girls—The Journal of Educational Sociol

  '1 0   reports on a study of the out-of—school ac

FLAKE—77%—30% ties of 200 girls in a New York high sch
A questionnaire was given the girls who u

 

1 WORLD AT PLAY 401

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

the ninth and tenth grades, the number
ng equally divided between members of the
‘demic and commercial classes. The ques-
‘0 naire had to do with home study, school
ganizaticn, cultural, recreational and social
ivities, routine and incidental activities, reli-
‘us interests, and outside work.

t was found that 38.5 per cent of the girls

i ized their out-of—sehool time for athletics;
' 5 per cent for music; 10.5 for drama, and 45

  
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
 
  

cent for club activities. The amount of
. e spent in each activity varied from none
as much ten hours a week. Although a
'.; percentage of the academic group than
‘ commercial gave out-of—school time to
hool organization activities. from 11 to 46
cent of both groups engaged regularly in
h activities. The academic group. likewise
elled the commercial in all forms of cul-
al activities. However, the students in both
ups engaged in these activities, the per-
tage varying from 39 for the theater to 88
cent for the reading of books other than
001 assignments.

incinnati’s Closing Festival—The play-
~ nd pageant which climaxed the season’s ac-
ies in Cincinnati, Ohio, this year took the
of a celebration in honor of George Wash-
on. Approximately 850 children took part
I he pageant entitled “First in the Hearts of
‘ Countrymen,” which was arranged and di-
' d by Mabel Madden and presented by Robert
' Coady of the staff of the Public Recreation
' mission. Four thousand people saw the pag-
and as many more were turned away. It was
lorful event for which the children and the
ground mothers’ clubs made the costumes and
ided the materials. There was one general
F rsal held the day before the presentation of
pageant.

1 auncey Allen Park—On June 8th Chaun-
: Allen Park, a nine~acre beauty spot facing

high school of \Vestlield. Massachusetts,
dedicated with a program including a
onstration by 600 boys and girls of the
sical Education Department of the schools
mass work, folk dances and games. This
the first outdoor demonstration of the
ever held in \Vestfleld. The park was the
of Albert Steiger of Springfield, a former
stiield resident who reclaimed it from an

IN CHRISTMAS
PACKAGES

An ideal gift for follower: of the
game. Attractive. colorful and. of
course. Diamond OEcial Pitching
Horseshoe: are the preference of
amateur: and professionals alike—
the country over. They're drop
forged from highest.quality steel.
They will not chip or break.

DIAMOND CAI-K

HORSESHOE CO.

4610 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH, MINN.

 

unsightly swamp..Approximately 30,000 yards
of fill were placed in the area. The develop-
ment has been going on over a period of years.

An Ingenious Slide.—A geographical play-
ground handicap was turned into an asset
when a 60-foot slide was built on the side of a
hill on a site formerly an eyesore in the form
of a junk pile and weed patch. Mr. M. G.
Moore, Superintendent of the Manchester,
Illinois, Public School, designed the slide
which a local hardware dealer constructed at
a total cost of $89.75. The slide is a community
attraction on holidays and Sundays. Mr.
Moore believes the slide to be a contributing
factor to the decrease in absence and tardiness
which has marked the last school year.

Some Facts and Figures.—The.Recreation
Department of Saginaw, Michigan, in a recent
activities report points out that in 10 cities in
Michigan whose recreation funds are raised
through taxation the per capita cost of recrea-
tion ranges from $.03 to $.85, the per capita
cost in Saginaw being $.10.

“What can you buy with your tax dime in
wholesome recreation ?” queries the report.

“10 days for a youngster on the playgrounds

402 - WORLD AT PLAY

In Commemoration

Oi Armistice Day

OR GROUPS planning to cele-
brate Armistice Day the
Community Drama Service of
the National Recreation Asso-
ciation offers a short peace
pageant with production notes.

Schools and community groups
of all kinds will welcome these
suggestions.

National Recreation Association

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

PRICE $.15

 

or

“20 swims at the swimming pool
or

“10 days skating at Hoyt park
or

“20 baseball games (play or look on)

or

“20 music week observance concerts and
Oratorio Society concerts.

“Any municipal recreation activity is pro-
duced at a cost of 1/3975 per person in attendance
at that event. Compare this cost with other
recreation activities that you buy—shows, bas-
ketball, baseball games, concerts, game pro-
grams.”

From a Drama Institute—As a result of the
interesting drama institute held in Monroe,
Louisiana, under the leadership of Charles F.
Wells of the N. R. A., a little theater has been
organized and a professional director engaged.
Puppetry has been introduced in the schools
and playgrounds, and an exhibit of masks, cos-
tumes, dyed material and miniature stages
made by students of the institute has been
shown as a means of interesting the public.

   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
     
  
   
  
 
 

The Rag Bag Alley Puppets—At 128 Ch
topher Street, New York City, Kathryn Da
and Weaver Dallas, under the name, “
Bag Alley Puppets,” are experimenting in
possibilities of community drama as inter
ted through the medium of puppetry. T
programs, played on a stage curtained wi
patchwork quilt, are based on folk lore
superstitions of the southern Negro. All p
are original and are given in the native dial
Much care has been taken to preserve
vividness, the humor and the quaint phil
phy of the source material. In addition to
formances on a miniature stage, original !
grams of storytelling with puppets have n
worked out to meet the needs of groups in
ested in puppets used informally.

Recreational Reading
(Continued from page 369)

6. There is another division in the Realm
Gold, the most re-creative of them all—the w
of poetry and plays. Spenser’s gentle Kn
pricking on the plain, the elves of James Steph
that splendid gallery of William Shakespeare, .
Winged Horse of Joseph Auslander and Fr
Ernest Hill, that Book of Famous Verse corn
by Agnes Repplier—these are excursions to
Realms of Gold with rich rewards awaiting
faithful. Well might Masefield’s lines be the r'

ing chorus of such voyages:
“A winds’ in the heart of me,
A J‘ire’s in the heels,
I am tired of brick and stone
And rumbling wagon wheels;
I hunger for the sea’s edge.
The limits of the land,

When the wild old Atlantic
Is shouting on the sand!”

Here there is a feast worthy of youth: ad
ture, the meaning of life, the world of work .
workers, international peace, spiritual crisis
quiring a choice, the land of fancy and
resolve. Such contacts mean a quickening (1
into new life, to be truly re-created.

How Much Public Recreation

Is Essential?

(Continued from page 375)
demand thus constitutes a real reason not f0
stricting but for enlarging budgets for our p
recreational services, and this reasoning is -
mented by consideration of the value of rec

HOW MUCH PUBLIC RECREATION IS ESSENTIAL? 403

in preventing delinquency at a time when

ss, discontent, lowered morale, may readily
pon our young people a heavy and increased
- ation toward delinquency. By every rational
now would be an excellent time to increase
ublic recreational service, both through en-
ng our plant through the use of unemployed
inexpensive labor and through the expansion
ur current service to meet the greatly ,in-

ed demand and need.

we need to remember that greatly in-
ed leisure for all, even in more normal times,
- confident expectation of all social observers
. This larger leisure may be a liability or
, both personally and socially, depending
ly upon what opportunities our communities
ide for the wholesome use of leisure time.
ented leisure will require augmented public
at'ional services.

well realize that there are times when even
ssentials cannot be paid for and, I repeat,
tion leaders everywhere will be glad to co-
te with tax appropriating authorities in
. ing practical reductions in service in ways
will hurt least. But when you ask me to
on how much recreation is essential I can-
fail to remind you that nowhere have even
um standards been attained. Children must
They will play. It is good for them to play
it is good for the community that they should
wholesomely. The space required for shoot-
raps is small. Baseball is a more wholesome
It needs more space. In our increasingly

, highly industrialized modern life our chil-
and our young people today cannot safely
They cannot play the developmental games
b they ought to play and which they want to

 

play. Only government can provide adequate fa-
cilities for the recreational life of the community
and government still has a long way to go in mak-
ing provision for even the minimum essentials
for the recreational life of our people.

 

The Christmas Tree~A Beloved

Tradition
(Continued from page 387)

tinue depends upon our using the forests wisely
and protecting the little trees from indiscriminate
cutting, from fire and other destructive agencies.

Conserving Trees

The United States uses perhaps live or six
million Christmas trees every year. On first
thought the cutting of so many young trees, to be
used and discarded in a short time, may seem a
serious drain on our forests. All of this supply,
however, could be grown on about 6,000 acres.
The amount of forest growth consumed in cele-
bration of Christmas is small indeed when com-
pared with the loss from forest tires which every
year sweep over millions of acres, causing the
destruction of countless young trees.

From a forest conservation standpoint, the
method by which our Christmas tree supply is
obtained is much more important than the num-
ber of trees used. The stealing of trees from
roadsides, farms or parks is to be severely con-
demned. The pilfering of small evergreens in-
terferes with the property rights of the owner,
and with his plans for woodland management.
Small trees should not be cut indiscriminately
from reforesting land. On the other hand a heavy
thicket of young trees may be greatly benefited
by cutting out a number of them, giving the
others more light and space in which to grow.

Check your
Playground Equipment

Parks and Playgrounds have been patronized
and utilized more this year than probably
ever before. Why? Because people have
taken their families to parks rather than
expensive resorts and shows. This has
meant heavy wear and tear on playground

equipment.

Now is the time to check your equipment.
Some of it may need repair—some replace-
ment——or additional devices may be needed.

Send for our catalog.

American Playground Device 00.
ANDERSON. INDIANA

404 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interesr to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, September 1932.
The Olympic Games of 1932, by V. K. Brown. .
City Park Trout Fishing an Innovation in Recreation.
Stadium Operations During the Olympic Games, by

V. K. Brown.
Peg Board, Baseball and Four Hand Checkers.

The American City, September 1932.
Cincinnati Playgrounds- Capitalize Rugged T'o-
pography- _ , _
City Dump Transformed into Recreation Center in
Des Moines.
Rock Garden Constructed in Community Park.
A Year-Round Playground for Young and Old—
Miami Beach.
The Journal of Health and Physical Education, Septem-

ber 1932.
Tests and Measurements, by C. H. McCloy, Ph.D.

Sandwich Island Olympics, by Lucille Bauer.
Touch-Football with the “Kick,” by L. E. Swain.
The Play House—A .Part of Play Day, by Helen

Westfall.
Combination Soccer and Football Goals.

Floor Hockey.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
October 1932. '
The Service of Recreation to Unemployment (Edi-
torial).
The New Dance Era, by Lucile Marsh. .
St. Louis’ First Elementary School Play Day, by
Ralph E. Wiley.
Swim for It.
Soccer Skill Tests, by Mildred Vanderhoof.

A Popular Playground Slide.
A Procedure for Handling Tennis and Golf

Schedules.
Line Ball—(A preparatory game for speedball).

The Epworth Highroad, November 1932.
A Football Party, 'by E. O. Harbin.

Mind and Body, September-October 1932.
Play Activities in Relation to Health, by William

A. Stecher.
Mine in Freeport, Pa. Is Used As Playroom.

The American City, .October 1932.
Syracuse University Trains Park Executives, by
Laurie Davidson Cox.
Unemployment Relieved in Beautifying Lincoln,
Nebraska.
Swimming Pool Constructed As Relief Measure in
Youngstown, Ohio. ’

PAMPHLETS .
Berkeley, California, Recreation Department Report,
1931-1932.

Play Days, Division of Physical and Health Education.
Dept. of Public Instruction, Trenton, N. J.

Westchester Workshop Program, 1932-33.

Lighting Winter Sports, The General Electric Company,
Schenectady, N. Y.

Crime Prevention Through Education
Research Bulletin of the National Education Asso-
ciation, September 1932. '

Annual Report of the Neighborhood Guild, Peace Dale,

R. I., 1931-1932.
Recreational, Educational and Leisure Time Activities of

the Neighborhood Guild, Peace Dale, R. I.

Annual Report of the Board of Recreation, New Haven,
Conn., 1931. '

   
  
 
   
       
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The question of cutting, however, is to be c
cided by the owner of the land, not by the pass'
motorist who considers that taking one tree
do no harm.

Some of the Christmas trees found in our
kets are grown especially for that purpose, .
some cities demand from vendors proof that
trees have been acquired legitimately and
stolen. Done in accordance with sound fore
principles, the cutting of Christmas trees is
contrary to forest conservation. Conservati
after all, means wise use, and it is questiona
whether or not a tree could be put to a better
than to bring happiness as a Christmas tree.

“Living Christmas trees” are coming more .
more into vogue. Such trees may be purcha
from nurserymen. They are planted in a la
flower pot or tub, according to their size, and .
kept indoors until after the Christmas festi
At a suitable time the living tree is carefully
out in the lawn or garden and in a few years e
has a steplike succession of Christmas trees, ..
one a beautiful reminder of happy, byg
Christmas days.

Developing Community Center Loya
(Continued from page 391)

wishes to join. The members of this cl
come from all the clubs.

One of the things that has done a great d
in making us a part of the neighborhood h
been the planting and care of the flower g
den in front of the school on a plot of grou
25 by 150 feet. The boys dug up the 01d gr
and brought rocks from all over the neighb
hood to make a rock garden and a flag wa
The plants have been donated by differ
people. We have not spent a cent for flowe
Several business men of the neighborhood ha
given plants and offered advice as to the b
way of taking care of the garden. Planted
this garden are about fifty varieties of flowe
making a beauty spot in a very poor distri
Every one who passes by stops and admi
the flowers, and all the members of the cen
take a great deal of pride in the garden.
far not a single bloom has been touched.

The one thing, however, which has
doubtedly done most to develop the comm
ity center spirit and consciousness has b
the formation of two leaders’ groups call
councils. We have two such groups beca

have both white and colored groups in the
er. The colored council was the first to
organized. Some of the outstanding col-
leaders in the section became interested
l i joined the council, which has been of great
'stance in planning the program. Members
‘ not only volunteered their services but
'e been the means of getting others to-offer
"ead different activities. They have a sense
social service; they see the needs of their
‘ and they have tried to meet some of them
ough the activities they have sponsored at
center. The council, which meets once a
nth, has set a high standard and is very
lous of the good name of the center. Their
lty and sense of responsibility are very
at. The activities they have sponsored have
a a vital effect on the life of the community.
he white council has not been functioning
as long a time as the colored, but its mem-
s have a similar spirit. Each white com-
nity center club was invited to send a rep-
ntative to the monthly meeting of the
ncil. There is no restriction as to the business
t can be brought before the council; there
‘ free and open discussion on every ques-
The meetings of the council bring home
the delegates, and thrcugh them to the
bs, the sense of belonging to something big-
than the individual club; they feel they are
t of the center and have a voice in its oper—
n. This council has sponsored several
irs which have helped to increase the com-
nity spirit.

I he different projects outlined have had an‘
ulative effect. Each project has had its
t in creating a real community spirit at our
ter and in making it a vital factor in the life
the community. They have been of great
cational value in helping our members to
better citizens, to learn self—government,
to respect public property.

   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
    
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

Camping on a Housetop
(Continued from page 397)

them to understand the meaning and signifi-
e of manners and morals. In this part of our
ram we found a real opportunity for tying

the instinctive acts of the camper to good
1 habits.

hrough the courtesy of the Chicago Public
- ry which cooperated with the day camp, it

DEVELOPING COMMUNITY CENTER LOYALTY 405

was possible for us to distribute the type of books
that had a direct appeal to the camper and was
wholly within the scope of his experience. The
time allotted for the library period was one hour,
from one to two, immediately after lunch.

The campers issued a newspaper containing
material relating the activities of the day camp,
and a good deal of original effort went into its
publication.

In the art work the campers were taught the
fundamentals of art——color combinations, form,
size and harmonious effects. They were given an
Opportunity to use their own judgment and origi-
nality, with the assistance of their counsellor.

A Girl Scout troop was organized under the
leadership of one of the counsellors who has had
scouting experience for a number of years.

The weekly trips planned took the campers to
Lincoln Park, the Field Museum, the Aquarium,
the Planetarium, Borden’s Milk Company, Bunte
Candy Factory, Navy Pier, Garfield Park Con-
servatory. There were two picnics at the forest
preserves.

At 8:30 on Monday evening a star-gazing ses-
sion was held for the older campers. This gave
them an opportunity to learn the various constel-
lations and the stars in the heavens. Greek myth-
ology was used to explain the myths regarding the
various stars.

Forty-eight mothers responded to an invitation
to organize the Institute Day Camp Parents’
Club. At their first meeting they discussed their
plans for the year. It was suggested that the
group meet every other week, and that once a
month the fathers be invited to the meeting. At
the following meeting the program for the entire
year was presented for their approval. The lec-
tures outlined for the year were: “Sex Conscious-
ness and Sex Instincts"; “Guiding the Normal
Child Against Delinquency"; “The Beginning of
the Boy and Girl Relationship”; “The Child, the
Mother, the Teacher”; “Recreation and the
Child”; “Problems of Child Training Including
Health Program”; “The Child—the Gang";
“Guiding the Normal Child from Abnormalities";
“The Personality of the Jewish-American Child”;
“Vital Factors in Child Life”; “Children \Vhat
Are They 3‘”; “Special Problems of Jewish Chil-
dren,” and “Direction of Children's Leisure on
the Part of the Parent.”

The day camp closed after twelve weeks of un-
interrupted activity with a splendid program and
exhibition of the work of the campers.

406 ' OUR DECISION 15

>>>

Our Decision Is

<<<

ECENT Changes and Interpretations of O 1??ch
Volley Ball Rules—United States Volley

Ball Association. Spalding’s Athletic Li-
brary 120R.

RULE I. Sec. 3. Add sentence:

It is assumed that the center line is extended
indelinitely beyond the side llnes (See Rule

X, Sec. 13.)

RULE II. NET.
Change the second sentence in the last pra-
graph, to read:
A one-inch vertical marker of soft material
should be placed the entire width of the net.
vertical to the side lines.

RULE IV. Sec. 3 to read:

A substitute may take the place of a player
only when the ball has been declared “dead.”
The Captain or the incoming substitute shall
flrst request “time out” for the substitution
from the Umpire and when such substitution
has been authorized, the substitute shall re—

port to the scorer.

RULE IV. Sec. 8: ’

“When the ball is served each player shall be
in his own area.” The Referee should see
that all players of both teams are within their
own area when the ball is served.

RULE VIII. Sec. 12. Change to read:

If wind, sun or some other circumstance
favors one court, the team with the lesser
score may request change of courts. as soon
as the opposing team has scored eight points
but the service continues with the player who
has just scored the eighth point. Only one
change shall be permitted during the game.

RULE VIII. Sec. 13.

This rule is to keep men from going out of
the playmg court except when it is necessary
to do so 1n order to recover the ball.

This should be interpreted as prohibiting
a player from taking a fixed position outside
of the court in anticipation of a set—up. It
should not be interpreted as prohibiting a
player from going outside of the court after
he clearly sees that by going out of bounds he
will be in a better position to handle the ball
or to get a longer run for a higher jump. thus

putting himself in better position for 3
“Spike” or “kill” shot.

 

    
      
    
     
  
 
     
  
  
   
 
   

RULE X. Sec. 13.
Add following to Sec. 13 so that it will r

Touch the floor on the opposite side of
center line or an imaginary line extended
definitely beyond the side lines. (See Ru
Sec. 3.)

RULE XI. Sec. I to read:

“Time out” may be called by the re
only, but the ball shall be in play until
whistle is blown by the referee. “Time .
for rest shall be allowed each team only t
during a game. (except for substitutio
players or because of injury) and may be
quested only by the Captains.

RULE XI. Sec. 3 to read:

The length of “time out” for rest or for '
stitution shall not exceed one minute, a
maximum of Eve minutes in case of in
provided the injured player is going .
into the game.

RULE XII. Sec. 2.

A game is won when either team scores a t
pomt lead wrth flfteen or more points.

 

NOTE: W'e hOpe our readers will send in any ques
they may have on interpretations of rules and si
problems.

Journal of
Physical Education

Are you interested in

The story of the invention of
Basketball ——

An objective study of
Boxing ——

A plan of procedure for
Social Dancing —

Or the teaching points in ,
Volley Ball— '

1

Read about these as well :
other interesting topics in th
November issue.

347 MADISON AVENUE ' '
NEW YORK CITY  '

Overseas and Canada, $3.2 '.
SINGLE COPIES, 35C.

Price. $3.00

   
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
    

Handicraft for Girls

Edwin T. Hamilton. Harcourt, Brace and Company,
‘ York. $3.00.

' BOOK on handicraft is particularly appropriate this

year when many people are planning to save money
‘ aking their Christmas gifts. There are step-by-step
uctions given for completing one article in each
t, and general directions are included for making
r articles by the same method. The crafts included
stenciling and crayon printing, paper mosaic, prizes,
en modeling, masks, Batik, hooked rugs, making and
' a camera, paper pottery, art metal work, block

ting, favors, table decorations, fancy costumes, art
1 jewelry, pottery and leather work. Attractive il-
ations and diagrams accompany the directions.

The Cohesbury Party Book

Arthur M. Depew. Cokesbury. Press, Nasville,
n. $1.50.

WELCOME aid to the individual or group planning
parties and socials, this new party 'book contains
estions for fifty-two completely planned parties, each
around a central theme and including invitations,
rations, costumes and refreshments. There are par-
for the home, the club, the school, for large and

11 groups, for indoor and outdoor gatherings and for
' es, churches and community clubs. Holiday parties
offered and “pay” parties, including a minstrel per-
ance that has been used successfully on several oc-
ons to raise money.

Games to Play

Pollyé 1J—sohnson. The Farmer’s Wife, St. Paul, Min-
ta. . .

RE is a practical help to the recreation worker in
planning parties, picnics, club meetings and com-
ity gatherings. One hundred and forty-eight games
described in this illustrated pamphlet, under the clas-
tion of home games, one room school games, pre-
y games, games for picnic, playground or large
rainy day games, table games, and after dinner
5. In addition, suggestions are offered on program
ning and leadership.

Kicking the American Football

erOy N. Mills. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York.
.

as long been the hobby of this author, a Westchester
ounty lawyer, to spend his spare time teaching boys
ick a football. In this book Mr. Mills has analyzed
ly and in detail his methods of instruction. The

contains numerous photographs and diagrams
rating the methods.

     
   

New Books on Recreation

The American School and University

l932- I 933

gnagrican School Publishing Carporation, New York.

THERE is much in this Yearbook devoted to the design,

construction, equipment, utilization, and maintenance
of educational buildings and grounds which will be of
interest to recreation workers as well as to school of-
ficials. There is, for example, an article on the School
System and the City Plan by Harland Bartholomew,
much of which deals with the planning of recreation
facilities. Charles H. Cheney, City and Regional Plan-
ner, has an article entitled “Combining School Grounds,
Playgrounds and Neighborhood Parks in Palos Verdes
Estates, California.” There are articles on the planning
of stages for school auditoriums and making provision

for musical activities. A wealth of information is to be
found in this volume.

Official Rules for Track and Field Events

l932-l933

Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 115R. $.25.

N ADDITION to the rules for track and field events com-

piled by the Women’s Rules and Editorial Committee of
the Women's Athletic Section of the American Physical
Education Association, the booklet contains the policies
of the committee, official rules for volley ball, and direc-
tions for playing twenty-four athletic games. This book-
let should be in the hands of all recreation workers
conducting activities for girls and women.

Athletics in Finland

By Martti Jukola, Ph.D.
HERE is a splendidly illustrated book telling of the
many fOMs of athletics and sports which the Finns
enjoy and in which they have achieved so high a degree
of efiiciency. Not only are the sports and their place in
the life of the country discussed but information is
given regarding some of the country’s leading athletes
who have taken part in the Olympic Games. Copies of
this report may be secured from the Cansulate General
of Finland, 5 State Street, New York City, as long as
the supply lasts. Those interested in obtaining the vol-
ume are requested to remit $.25 in postage to cover the
cost of handling and mailing.

Soccer-Official Playing Rules I932-33

National Collegiate Athletic Association. Spalding’s
Athletic Library. No. 108R. $.25.

THIS NEW booklet of records, reviews and playing hints

contains only one change on rules. It does, however,
give much detailed information about the 1931 seasOn of
soccer play.

407

408 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Fundamentals of Personal Hygiene.

By Walter W. Krueger, Ph.B. W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia. $1.75. '

Not only the fundamental principles Of personal
hygiene but their practical application to healthful 11v1ng
are discussed in this readable text book. A chapter on
“Recreation and Rest” points out the need of recreation
and discusses various types. Hobbies as well as outdoor

recreation and sports are advocated.

The Official Rules of Card Games.

United States Playing Card Company, Cincinnati,
Ohio.

In this “Hoer Up—to-Date” will be found directions
for playing approximately two hundred card games. In
the case of a number of the games, several variatlons are

Offered.

New Girls for Old.

By Phyllis Blanchard and Carlyn Manasses. The
Macaulay Company, New York. $2.50.

The new girl is with us! How much do we know
about her? Many revealing facts are set down in this
bodk which embodies the report of a study by Miss
Blanchard, who is Psychologist at the Philadelphia Child
Guidance Clinic, and Miss Manasses, who has long been
associated with her in her experimental work. The evi—
dence they present is the fruit of intensive experiment
in research Iby examination and questionnaire of hundreds
Of girls of all classes. The, girl and her attitude toward
sex and marriage, toward her family and her wOrk; the
girl in her many varied moods—she is here for your con-
sideration.

In a chapter on Recreation for Women the authors
point out the importance of recreation as a necessary
part Of any well balanced scheme Of existence.

The Modern American Family.

Edited by Donald Young, Ph.D. The American
Academy Of Political and Social Science, 3457 Wal-
nut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.00 (pa-
per); $2.50 (cloth).

In publishing this book, Volume 160 of The Annals Of
the American Academy of Political and Social Science,
the purpose has been “to secure summarizing and inter-
pretive contributions which might afford readers a com-
prehensive view Of the historical background of the
American family, a descriptive account Of its present
form and function, and an analysis of the efforts being
made to improve and stabilize this basic social institu-
tion.” Twenty-six individuals, including college profes-
sors, social workers and other professional people, have
contributed tO this symposium which covers three main
subjects—The Heritage of the Modern Family; The
American Family in Transition, and Efforts at Family
Stabilization.

The Play and Recreation of Children and Youth in
Selected Rural Areas of South Carolina.

Mary . E. Frayser. South Carolina Agricultural
Experiment Station of Clemson Agricultural College,
Clemson College, South Carolina.

Increasingly information is being gathered about the
recreatlonal interests and activities Of children and young
peOple In rural districts. In this particular study the
method of “random sampling” was used in gathering data.
The survey was made through visits to the rural schools
selected and subsequently through visits to the homes
in these districts. Inquiry was made as to the provision
the environment Offered for the use Of leisure, and infor-
mation was sought concerning the use of leisure by the
children and youth Of the families interviewed. Facts
were secured from 617 white and 337 negro young people
and children m_embers Of families. It is a thoughtful
study which all interested in rural needs will want to
secure.

   
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   

The Mercer County Plan (A Guide for Future -

opment.)
Mercer COunty Planning Commission, Trenton,
Jersey. -

The Mercer County Planning Commission, app
in 1929, has submitted in a comprehensive report t
sult of fifteen months’ study in which Russell Van
Black served as consultant. As a part of the re
park program development has been suggested on .
designed to give the people of Mercer County a r
able amount Of recreational opportunity and sufhci
bring Mercer County approximately on a par in
with other counties Of its class in New Jersey.
hoped,” states the report, “that the Board of Freeh
will see its way clear to make a modest beginn
panks this year_ in two or three locations where t
the help Of gifts of land recreation centers may be .
lished at small cost. This can be accomplished u
appointment of a board Of recreation whose activiti
expenditures would be entirely within the control u
board of chosen freeholders.”

Official Field Hockey Guide—1932.

Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 38R. $.25.
This booklet, the thcial publication of the
States Field Hockey Association and the American
sical Education Association, contains rules for pl
hockey and a number of articles on features of the a

A Handbook for. Members of Local Councils and
Community Committees of the Girl Scouts.

Girl Scouts, Inc., New York. I$.60 postpaid.
This new handbook of about 300 pages gives inf
tion which every local council and community co
member should have. The procedure recommende
organization and administration of local councils
committees is presented in such a way as to be appli
to any community. Among the subjects discusse
“The Girl Scout Troop and the Brownie Pack,”
Girl Scout Program and Activities,” and “The Girl "

National Organization.”

Oflicers and Directors of the Natio .

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARE, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRs. ARTHIIR G. CUHMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUEEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y. .
MRS. CHARLES V. HICRox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOHIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERch S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAHES W. WADSWORTH, 11., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, 11., Plainfield, N. J.

