" Bread and Circuses"

HE workers of the world have always wanted to swim, to skate, to play ball
I games, to sing, and except when they have become self-conscious, to dance.

Workers have wanted circuses just as much as they have wanted bread.
Even more than to see a circus they have wanted themselves to be the “circus,”
themselves to be the actors.

Man without bread, any animal without food, is more or less dangerous.
Man without his circus, his adventure, any animal caged in, is equally more or
less dangerous.

Food—~yes, but something in the way of adventure too. If in time of severe
unemployment you want disaster, close your ball fields, your swimming pools,
your recreation centers; close down your orchestras, your choral societies.

The trouble with those who would close playgrounds and recreation centers
in times of depression is that they have never known what it is to go hungry, to
be without money to pay for recreation—or it was so long ago that they have
forgotten.

In one American city some 60,000 unemployed and the members of their
families are reported to be organized. One of their first undertakings was to es-
tablish centers for recreation.

One who had been a carpenter, who had known what it was to have no
place to lay his head, recognized the need not only for loaves and fishes but a meas—
ure of “abundant life," for man does not live by bread alone.

The common people of all ages have wanted recreation. Society has ever
been in great peril when it has failed to provide recreation and adventure as well
as food.

Man is not the kind of animal that you can cage up and keep in idleness.
The indomitable spirit of man is his own undoing if he have no outlet for ad—
venture, for living, for recreation.

It is no economy to clap the lid down on recreation and adventure and wait
for the inevitable explosion which comes when human beings sit together in idle-
ness and let petty irritations grow. Activity alone can give the ventilation that
the human spirit requires.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

August, 1932

 

 

217

There are many such beauty sp
the Cook County, Illinois, F
Preserves, to reward the hil<er ll
Follows the trails leading thr
this vast playground availabl
citizens ol: the City ol: Chicag

 

Courtesy Coo}: County Forest Preserve District

These are the days which belong most at all
to the children. To the playgrounds ol: many
cities they are crowding, eager For the games
and sports, tor music and drama, and For the
opportunity to play to their hearts’ content,
which make summer vacations so ioyous a time.

218

 

anted - a method of safe-
.uording the natural interest

ind ioy every child has in play!

' OHNNY has just come to the playground for
' ‘J the first time. If he is an active, wide—awake
boy, he will soon be in trouble of some sort;

I.if he is a somewhat sluggish Johnny, he will sit
br stand around for an hour or two, doing noth-
ing and deriving no benefit save, perhaps, the
‘ negative one of not being run over. A curious re-
l action appears, however, when we approach
l Johnny and suggest that he take part in one of
he games or.activities which have been organized

I to meet his needs. Johnny will say “All right”
; father grudgingly and follow his assent with
I the query, “\Vhat do I get out of it ?” He does—
. A’t necessarily mean a cash payment, but his ques-
I .ion is, nevertheless, perfectly serious. He does
Got have the idea of playing a game or taking part
if an activity for the enjoyment he will find, par-
‘cularly if it‘ is suggested by or seems to be under
.18 direction of an' adult. He thinks that there
i 'hould be some sort'of prize, medal or award to
won for any display or skill or for the mere
ct of winning. In short,
hnny is a professional by

Teaching Johnny to Play

 

How are we to convince Johnny and his sister that
the joy of making something is” sufficient reward?

reaping a harvest of publicity and profit from
the things they do well may be responsible.
School background with its marks, rewards,
and punishments may be another. At all events

Johnny does not do things for the sake of
doing them.

An Attack on the Problem
Recreation, if it is to mean anything at all,

‘ should mean just that. Hence, within the past

year the members of the Recreation Depart-
ment have faced and attempted to solve this
problem. The difficulties, in addition to John—
ny’s “VVhat’s-the-prize”'attitude, were many.
The more skillful boys and girls, without sac-
rificing their desire for rewards, accumulated
medals, certificates and cups until they were
almost meaningless. At the same time all such
awards placed a disproportionate emphasis
upon the actual winning, rather than upon the
effort or pleasure involved, personal attitude,
- or any other values that might
lie in the activities. Closely tied

 
  
 
  
  
 

tinct.

We need not try to discover

causes of this attitude.

emphasis today on pro—

" ional sport, the fact that
mny’s idols in almost

'ry field of endeavor are

 

The Department of Recreation of
the Board of Education, Newark,
New Jersey, last summer tried an
experiment in the development of
a point system which was recorded
in the October, [93I issue of the
Newark School Bulletin. This sub-
iect is one which is of keen interest
to all recreation workers.

up with this was the unsports-
manlike spirit, another symp-
tom of professionalism, which
had crept into the competitive
games, particularly those be-
tween representatives of dif-
ferent playgrounds.

219

220 TEACHING JOHNNY TO PLAY

A beginning was made in the summer of
1930. Activities were divided into the follow—
ing classifications: atheltics, games, drama,
handcraft, clubs, and dancing. The children
were divided into age-interest groups as fol-
lows: midgets 6-8, juniors 9—11, intermediates
12-14, and seniors 15-17. The number of com—
petitive games was strictly limited, interplay-
ground competition was temporarily abols-
ished, and an effort Was made to place the
emphasis in athletic activities on what was
considered its most important phase.

All competitive team games were rated on

the following basis:
Sportsmanship—60 points

Winning the game—30 points

Promptness—IO points

Each of these terms was discussed thor—
oughly with the playground leaders in order
that all might be interpreted alike on all play—
grounds. Tlie umpire for each game awarded
the points and filled in the report blank that
was sent to the main office. Under this system
a team could actually win a game, yet in the
final scoring lose on poor sportsmanship and
At the end of the season winning
teams were determined on the basis of total

tardiness.

points accumulated.

The partizanship, the unsportsmanlike con-
duct, and the false values which had crept into
the inter—playground competition were not
confined to the players, however.
until other attit'udes had been substituted all
along the line, something to take the place of

Therefore,

tivities.

this competition had to be found. The values

of contacts between the various playgrounds
“Play days” were

could not be sacrificed.
developed.

Play Days Introduced

Following the play day schedule, children
from three or four nearby playgrounds met

each week at one of the play-
grounds to play together. As
each child entered the grounds
for play day, he or she was
given a colored ribbon, regard~
less of the playground usually
attended. That child then found
his color flag on the playground,
met the children of his color,
practiced a color song or yell,

Many recreation worlzers are
becoming greatly concerned
with what they believe to be
an increasing tendency on the
part of boys and girls to take
part in activities from a"what's-
in-it for-me" motive. The
problem, they feel, is serious.
They are eager to learn how
others are solving it.

and arranged teams to enter the various .

The general program of activities was .
ranged beforehand by the playground lead
to include active games, quiet games, f
dancing, community singing, etc.
was given points for winning activities duri
the afternoon, and at the close of the play (1
the “color team” having the most points w
All the children participated in some activ
all the time. There were no spectators. Si
every playground had representatives on :
winning color team, there were no hard f
ings at the end of the day over which pl
ground was best.
playgrounds seemed to be forgotten afte
few play days, and children who had pre
ously played for prizes, played just for the
of playing. This, summer, having built
higher standards of sportsmanship and co
tesy, inter-playground competition on a li
ited scale was reintroduced.

Many games besides team games were
cluded in the summer program. These ga l
were divided into four classes: jumping-h
ping games, catching-throwing-kicking ga
chasing-fleeing
miscellaneous games.
each game was given to every playgro
leader, and the games were discussed, .
sometimes played at staff meetings. The w
of the playgrounds was planned in two-w
cycles so that the children of all playgrou
were familiar with the same games.

Art Activities Emphasized

Dramatic activities were given a new a
phasis on the playground program. Thro
clubs or other interest groups many orig
story plays were given. The children arran
most of the plays for their own enjoym .
producing for audiences only on occasi

l

l

l

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
  

Each c0

n
The bitter rivalry betw I

and hiding-seeki
A ‘full description

games,

such as “community nig .'
when all the people in the c
munity surrounding a a
ground were invited for
evening’s entertainment.
onette plays turned out to b
most popular form of drama
Many lovely, grotesque,
amusing little marionettes
made by the children for u ,I

TEACHING JOHNNY TO PLAY 221

  
  
     
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
     

' .2 t they arranged them-
lves. “W innie-the-
oh” became a very
n ous character on the
‘I aygrounds. He had the
' nor of being sent out
. th his tr00p to visit
her grounds via the
eatre Van. He was
. ned and controlled by
hfteen-year-old boy.
me phase of marion-
' es seemed to appeal
almost every age

i oup.

ll andcraft projects, ex-
pt for marionette con-
° ruction and s h o w
t rk, were usually sim-

- and could be made in
short time. Materials
' 1ch as paint, clay, soap,
od, paper, crayons,
ue, etc., were available
d simple directions
re given the children
0 asked for help. At a
m b er of the play-
ounds, manual train-
; shops were opened
d directed by special
». ders, who gave the children freedom in se—
ting and making articles, helping only when
lled upon by the children. Instead of a city-
de handcraft contest at the end of the sum-
r season, handcraft products were displayed
' every community night so that parents and
nds of the children could see what they
e doing in handcraft. Lack of inter-play-
und competition here made the leaders
\ e free to let the children do what they
'” nted to do as they wanted to do it. “Show

fill k” was eliminated.

   
  
  
    
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 

O

.1

II
I

 
 
 
   
   

usic included community singing, har-
nica bands, jazz orchestras, toy bands, uku-
.’ > clubs, and barber shop quartettes. A mas-
l", musician has assisted with some of the
It bs and bands. Song sheets, ukulele songs,

, were given out to stimulate musical ac-
ties.

       
 

t"

I!“ any of the playground leaders arranged
i t of the activities through club organiza-

 

Courtesy Department of Parks, Seattle, Washington

tions. These seem to
work rather effectively.
Eac h playground ar-
ranged its dramatic
clubs, handcraft clubs,
athletic clubs, etc. Danc-
ing, however, seemed to
keep away from club or-
ganization. Folk dancing
was steadily emphasized,
with dances so simple
that almost any child
could enter a dancing
group without previous
experience. These danc-
es were used' very effec-
tively in play days and
community nights.

Placing Awards in Their
Proper Setting

All of these were steps
in substituting play for
competition. There still
remained the problem of
placing awards on a sat-
isfactory basis. There

It's a great thing when Johnny who lives in a was no overwhelming
crowded city is provided with an overnight camp
nearby where he may go at very little expense.

desire to do away with
them altogether. Awards
of one sort or another,
and always providing they are not over-em-
phasized, give a valuable stimulus. The rec-
reation leaders did feel, however, that they
should be systematized and should contribute
definitely to the main objectives of recreation.
The problem was taken up by the advisory
committee of the recreation department, com-
posed of nine permanently employed recrea-
tion leaders. The members of this committee
are: Allan Krim, chairman, Helen Collin, Fan-
nie Diener, Rose .Freeman, Vivian Y. \Veitz,
Peter D. Jones, Thomas Donovan, Jacob \V.
Feldman, and James O’Dea. Last July they
formulated a unified award system for the rec-
reation department. It was placed in operation
immediately.

The purposes of the system are:

1. To aid in increasing the interest of the in-
dividual in a varied program of recrea-
tional activities.

2. To reward this increased interest upon the

222 TEACHING JOHNNY TO PLAY

part of the individual or group of individ—
uals when certain standards have been

reached.

3. To standardize these awards for all recrea- I

tion centers so that the increased interest
upon the part of the individual or group
will be given equal recognition.

4. To make a system of awards progressive
to a degree so that an individual spending
several years in the recreation center may
receive a cumulation of awards.

The system considers interest and effort as
most important; competition and reward are
not emphasized; activity, fun, fair play and
sportsmanship are primary considerations.
There are four types of awards, the individual
certificate, the team certificate, the gold but-
ton, and the gold medal. An individual may
secure a certificate or certificates with a value
of three points, two points, or one point, de-
pending upon the rules governing the granting
of awards in any particular activity. A mem-
ber of any winning team who meets the re-
quirements set up for the granting of awards
in the various team activities may secure a
certificate with a value of three points. A gold
button may be secured by accumulating a total
of fifteen points of certificate value, providing
that four different activities are represented.
A gold medal may be secured by accumulating
three gold buttons, regardless of the length of
time necessary for this accumulation, provid-
ing, of course, that the individual is of play-
ground age i.e., under eighteen. It is the idea
of the committee that it will take at least three
years for a boy or girl to acquire a gold medal.
Awards will be made by the director of recrea-
tion in conjunction with the advisory commit-
tee twice a year—the first Saturday in Janu—
ary and the first Saturday in July. Credits
earned on one playground may be transferred
to another.

A system for the award of' certificate points
has been set up for each activity by a special
committee which considered the fundamental
purposes of the activity and its place in the
recreation program. Every effort was made to
make the certificate points under the various
activities about equal in value.

Under clubs, a three-point certificate is
awarded to each member of a club which accu-
mulates 300 points of credit, such points being

  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

gained by the attendance record of the club, b"
its activity in entering members in contest
and tournaments, and lastly, for the winnin
of events. In drama, dancing, music and hand
craft emphasis is always upon participatio
and creative interest, rather than upon ac‘com
plishment or victory in a contest.

In games the awarding of certificates i
based on the total number of points secure
during the team’s league season. Under trac
and field events minimum number entries ar
set up, provisions limit contestants to on
track and one field event, and certificates ar
awarded to winners of events and to member

of. winning teams.

The Point System

The number of points awarded for indivi
ual activities are as follows:

Dram atics

Types of Productions—Plays (one, two a
three acts) ; Minstrels; Puppet Shows; Pageant
Masques, Festivals, Operettas, Musical Comedie
Reviews, Follies; Recreational Dramatics (P
tomimes, Tableaux, Impersonations, Walki
Rehearsals, Shadow Pictures, Skits, Stunt Plays

Awards—Anyone appearing in a major part i
full evening’s entertainment of one presentati
of at least 11/; hours before an audience, will r
ceive a 3 point certificate. A minor part in a li I
production will receive 2 or I points dependi
on length of part. Anyone appearing in a maj
part in a short entertainment before an audien
will receive a 2 point certificateeminor part
like production I point.

The director, stage manager, business manag
property manager, costume manager, light ma
ager, scenery manager, understudy, and mu
director of any performance will receive poi
in proportion to the amount of work each has

do on said production.

f

Anyone writing an original full evening’s a .
tertainment which is produced will receive a f
point certificate. ’

Anyone writing a short, original entertainm
for a part of an evening’s production, which
produced, will receive a 2 point certificate. .

To receive an award in dramatics, a child m
present a record showing the name, author .
publisher, and part played in entertainment
which he participated.

D
l
:J

l

  
 
    
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

0 .
ummer playgrounds are to transfer their re-

’ ctive children’s credits to the playground
ich the children expect to attend in the winter.

cing
Types of Dancing—Acrobatic; Ballet, Charac-

; Chorus; Folk Dancing; Interpretive; Ryth-
cs; Tap and Clog; Original Dance Conceptions.

retards—A 1-point certificate for attendance
every I 5 hours.

1-point certificate for an individual taking
t in recitals or dance routines arranged for
ws, exhibitions, minstrels, etc.

‘ 2-point certificate may be awarded a pupil
an original dance conception executed in a
- mendable manner by that individual.

n additional I point may be awarded an indi-
ual for an original (lance conception executed
a group of individuals.

\wards are to be made in dancing at the end
a six-month session.

ic

I ypes of Music—Harmonica; Ukulele; Toy
d; Glee Club; Orchestra; Fife and Drum
ps; Community Singing Leader.

wards—I point for every 15 hours of attend-
e. 2 points for every 30 hours of attendance.
oints for every 45 hours or any multiple
reof. I point for playing in concerts, musi-
, shows, city bands, entertainments, etc.
utstanding Achievements—Any pupil writing
words for a playground song will be awarded
-point certificate if the words will be adapted
a playground song. The adaptability of the
ds is left to the discretion of the instructor
harge.

nyone composing and playing a musical com-
ition before the instructor and class will re-
e a 2-point certificate.

nyone composing musical selections which
later be rendered to a group of children, will
ive a 3-point certificate.

n advanced pupil who is superior to the others
he preliminary work may be appointed as a
r to instruct in the various assignments in
music made by the instructor in charge and
receive a 3-point certificate.

wards are to be made in music at the end of
'-month session.

mmer playgrounds are to transfer their re-
ive children’s summer credits to the play-
md they will attend in the winter.

0 TEACHING JOHNNY TO PLAY ' 223

Handcraft

Suggested Handcraft Activities—Art Stone
Craft; Airplane making; Asbestos work; Animal
making; Art needlework; Boats (model); Bas-
ketry; Beading; Batik work; Bird houses; Clay
modeling; Circus project; Crepe paper craft;
Crayonexing; Crocheting and knitting; Costum-
ing; Creative work; Cork articles; Dolls; Doll
houses and furniture making; Decorative masks
and plaques; Dressmaking; Drawing; Furniture
making; Flower making; Japanese gardens; Jew-
elry; Lamp shades; Lanterns; Leather work;
Magazine or playground paper publishing; Pup-
pets and marionettes; Paper craft; Plaster Paris
work; Painting; Printing; Poster work; Paper
mache articles; Rug making; Rubber articles;
Sealing Wax craft; Sewing; Soap carving; Scen-
ery making; Spool toys; Scrap books; Tying and
(lyeing; Toy making; Weaving; Wood carving;
\Vhittling.

Awards—For a project or group of projects
taking 45 hours, award a 3-point certificate; 30
hours, award a 2-point certificate; 15 hours,
award a 1-point certificate.

Certificates will only be awarded for I 5 hours
or any multiple thereof.

For outstanding achievement award a 2-point
certificate.

For an original idea award a 1-point certificate.

A child who has a great amount of ability in
handcraft should be appointed as leader to in-
struct handcraft activities and should be awarded
a 3-point certificate.

Summer playgrounds are to transfer their re-
spective children’s credits to the playground they
expect to attend in the winter.

The number of articles made are not to be con-
sidered.

Awards in handcraft are to be made at the
end of a six-month session.

Games

Games Suggested—Baseball: Diamond Ball;
Punch Ball; Football; Basketball; Long Base;
Speed Ball; Goal Ball; Box Ball; Stride Ball
Relay; Volley Ball: Dodge Ball; Captain Ball;
Corner Ball: Field Ball; Volley Quoits; Fox and
Geese Dodge Ball; Newcomb; Snatch Ball; Over-
head Ball Relay; Kick Baseball; Ping Pong;
Paddle Tennis; Shuffle Board; Horseshoe Pitch-
ing; Clock Golf; Carroms; Ring Toss; Jacks,

Hop Scotch.
Awards—In order to receive an award a

224 TEACHING JOHNNY TO PLAY

player must be on the winning team and must
have participated in one game more than half

the total number of games.
In individual competition, such as checkers,

paddle tennis, jacks, etc., first, second, third place
winners are to receive a certiflcate equivalent to
the value of the place won.

The awarding of certificates to the winning
team is to be based on the total number points
gained and scored during the league season. Each
team has the possibility of scoring 100 points for
each game—Sportsmanship, 60 points; Winning
game, 30 points; Promptness, 10 points.

Those midgets and other children who do not
participate in team contests, but who are regular
in attendance and actively engaged in low or-
ganized games, should receive a certificate of
award, the value of which to be left to the discre-
tion of the director.

Athletics

(1) Classification
A—to apply to all events

Individual C lassijicai‘ion
Midget Girls—8 years and under
Midget Boys—8 years and under
Junior Girls—9 to 11 years inclusive
Junior Boys—9 to I I years inclusive

a. Intermedate Girls—12 to 14 years inclusive
Intermediate Boys—12 to 14 years inclusive
Senior Boys—15 to 17 years inclusive
Senior Girls—15 to 17 years inclusive

Team Classification
b. Intermediate—I4 years and under

Senior—I7 years and under

B—VVeight and height not to be considered
Events

(2) No midgets eligible..(All subject to condi-

tions)
A—Track
a. Sprints—

junior Girls—4o yd. Dash

Boys—4O yd. Dash
Intermediate Girls—4O yd. Dash

Boys—50 yd. Dash
Senior Girls—50 yd. Dash

Boys—50 yd. Dash
b. Relays (4 to team)
1-——Junior Girls—120 yds. (30 yds.
each) % lap
Boys—120 yds. (30 yds.
each) M lap

  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
     
 
 
   
    

2—Intermediate Girls—120 yds. (
yds. each) % lap
Boys—240 yds. (
yds. each) V2 lap
3—Senior Girls—120 yds. (30 y

each) % lap
Boys—480 yds. (120 y

each) I lap
c. Shuttle Relay (Girls’ special event)

to team

I—Juniors—Girls (each to run
yds.)

2—Intermediates—Girls (each to r
40 yds.)

3—Seniors—Girls (each to run
yds.)

B—Field
Girls

a. Junior-Volley ball throw, standing a
running broad, running high jump

b. Intermediate and Senior-Basketb
throw, baseball, throw, standing .
running broad, running high jump

Boys
c. Junior, Intermediate and Senior-R
ning and standing broad jump, r

ning high jump

Boys and Girls
d. Intermediate and Senior-Hop, step .
jump
Awards—Individual—3, 2, I point certilica
Team—3 point certificate to each member
winning team.

The system has been presented in consider
detail here because it may suggest a similar u
of graduated awards to others and because i
new on the Newark playgrounds. At all ev
it is the recreation department’s answer to J0
ny’s question, “What’s the prize?” While
prize may be a stimulus to keep Johnny’s inte
up, it is not so valuable that he will seek it
its own sake. Consequently we hope that 1
before Johnny has exchanged his three gold i
tons for a gold medal, or has reached the m
age of eighteen at which gold medals pres
ably have no allure, he will have learne
play because he likes to play and will en
in pleasurable and prolitable recreation
recreation.

 

NOTE: A contestant may take part in only one
and one iield event. The minimum entries requir
make an event ofiicial for an award shall be te
field events, twelve for track events, five relay tea

 
  
    
   
 

ypsy Jaunts

‘ LONG about the time
that Mrs. Bloomer was *
crusading for bloomers for

a‘dies and bicycling was a daring

eminine sport, and women went

1 bathing, (not swimming), swathed from head

. toe in voluminous garments, camping for girls

‘ 'as considered almost too radical an innovation

0 be whole-heartedly accepted—too strenuous,

7 0t quite ladylike, and very apt to be dangerous.
ow far the pendulum has swung the other way!
erhaps too far. Today there are private and or—
anization camps for. girls in every part of the
ountry. The danger now lies not in their being
1 angerous to life and safety but in their being too
ivilized—over—programmed, sophisticated.

There has been a tendency to carry over into a

ull camping schedule the sports and handicrafts
'hich the girls enjoy in their winter, school and
own experience. To make room for these activi-
ies the days have been crowded too full. Up
'ith the bugle, dip, dress, flag raising, exercise,
reakfast’, morning sing, clean up, tramp, tramp,
ramp from class to class, dinner, rest hour, more
ssigned activities, supper, and evening program,
nd so to bed, worn and weary.

The Camp Program

We all recognize that type of regimented
hedule. Perhaps it developed because conscien—

What could be more fun this
summer than one of these in-
formal, spontaneous hikes?

By C. FRANCES Looms

National Headquarters
Camp Fire Girls

tious camp di-
rectors wanted
to give the girls
all they possibly
could during th eir
brief stay at camp. Perhaps it was just easier for
capable but unimaginative executives to organize
camp that way. Three disadvantages are obvious.
An inflexible, crowded schedule is apt to make a
girl tired and nervous rather than relaxed and
rested, it permits little or no opportunity for the
girls to follow their individual interests, and it
rarely allows either counselors or campers to take
full advantage of the camp’s richest offering—its
’environment. If there is no “time to stand and
stare” one might almost as well be confined be-
hind brick walls in the heart of a city as en-
camped beside the sea or on a pine-clad hillside.
Camp Fire camps are not guiltless of over-
scheduling. We have, or we hope we can say we
have had, bugle-run camps, but not many of them,
for most Camp Fire leaders have imagination.
That quality, in fact, is practically a prerequisite
to leadership in Camp Fire, and imagination does
not usually express itself in hard and fast sched-
ules. \Vhere, in such a schedule, would one be
able to squeeze in an impromptu Ta jer hunt? Or
a moonlight swim, because moonlight and warm
weather were for once in happy combination?
Or a barbecue because a friendly rancher had

225

226

presented the camp with seven goats? Some
scheduling there must be—regular meal times if
one is to keep the camp cook, the campers’ di-
gestions in good humor, regular hours of sleep,
though this routine is occasionally broken by a
midnight star gazing party or a sunrise hike, and
a regular time for the main swimming period
each day because that is dependent on meal time.
For the rest, the campers in small groups pursue
the activities which interest them most, whether
it is building a tree house, making a rock garden,
exploring a brook or rigging sails on the row
boats. There is really free time when each girl
may pursue her individual hobby with counselors
within call for advice and help. There is leeway
for Spur-of-the-moment expeditions and explora-
tions that have been inspired by some activity the
girls are interested in, such as a trip to the swamp
for sphagnum moss to fill the chinks of the log
cabin, or a hunt for clay from which to make

pottery.

It is admittedly more difficult to direct thisq‘

more spontaneous type of program. It requires
vision and initiative and tact on the part of the
camp director and counselors alike, but it is well
worthwhile in the richer and more personal ex-
perience which it gives the girls, the real re-crea—
tion which comes with their initiating their own
activities and putting themselves into what they
do. In carrying forward such a program the
camp staff finds its most valuable asset the camp
environment and
t w o interests
which are in-
spired by the
c a m p environ-
ment and in turn motivate
most of the camp activi-
ties—nature lore and camp
craft.

S

:eil

It is the aim of every
camp to have a competent
nature lore and a compe~
tent camp craft .coun—
selor, but to know some-
thing of these crafts is an
asset in every counselor,
for no matter for what ’
particular skill a counselor
is engaged—swimming or
handicraft or music—if
she can recognize a bird’s
song or knows what wood

They build their own equipment, cook their
meals, and Find it a delightful adventure!

GYPSY JAUNTS

will make a good fire for roasting, she is just tha
much more valuable. Even the nurse may mak
her special contribution if her hobby happens t
be star lore or if she knows how to make dye
from certain plants and berries, and the hand
man is just that much more handy if he know
the ways of woodchucks or can show the girl
where to find rushes and willows for their ba
kets and mats. The out-of-doors is heart and so
of camp and a store of nature and camp lore i
the treasure trove that girls take away with the
to draw upon all the rest of their lives.
Hiking

Naturally hikes, both the day trips and th
over-night ones, outdoor cooking, and sleepin
out-of—doors, play an important part in a pro
gram such as this. The novitiates start with shor
hikes and cooking simple meals over outdoo
fires; they progress to over-night hikes, when the
must be able to make themselves comfortable 0
the ground in any weather, and they learn mor

of the possibilities and devices of outdoor cooking

until they finally achieve their longed for goal
the longer trips which the girls in some camp

call “gypsy jaunts.”
These trips last a week, sometimes ten days

sometimes longer. By covered wagon in Arizona
on horseback in Colorado, by canoe in Minnestoa
on foot in California, under sail in Puget Sound
these trips are as varied as the localities, th
abilities and the desires of the girls.

They are so different that only .
few general statements can be mad
that apply to them all. They ar

if.—

 

    
 
   
  
     
  
  
 
  
  

- special privilege of the older campers who
'.;ve shown particular interest and skill in camp
. aft and who are physically fit. Permission
obtained from each girl’s parents before
e is allowed to take the trip. The number
' limited to ten or twelve, sometimes less. The
mp craft counselor is usually in charge and one
3 two other counselors, skilled in camp craft and
ture lore, accompany the girls. The route is

I nned by the girls and counselors together, and
, i ether they make up the lists
.5 supplies and equipment and

GYPSY JAUNTS 227

since transportation has to be considered, be situ-
ated within from twenty-five to a hundred miles
of the cities in which the girls live. Some camps
are fortunate in having fairly wild country, for-
ests, mountains, deserts or chains of lakes more
readily accessible than others, and these are the
setting for their gypsy jaunts, while girls from
other camps less fortunately situated must hike

through country that is rather well settled.
Even this had its piquancy in adventure and
experience. On the Michigan

"One of the greatest luxuries in trip mentionEd the girls enj0y3d

tend to their assemblage and
' cking. Perhaps a gypsy jaunt
' most exciting when the plans
I d preparations are under
ay. Then maps are pored over
d equipment lists made and
vised again and again. The
neral equipment is furnished
, the camp and the supplies
me largely from the camp

 
   
 
  
   
  
  

the world is to be let alone at the
proper time. I don't like a cheer
leader to tell me when to cheer.
In this age we lack proper Facilities
for play and too much drudgery
enters into our lives. Efficiency as
we are developing it gives me a
cold chill."'—'From Dr. Allen
Hobcn, President, Kalamazoo
College, Michigan.

the novelty of getting permis-
sion to put up pup tents in orch-
ards or woodlots or in the lee
of a haystack, buying eggs and
milk at the source, being al-
lowed to pick wild blueberries
for blueberry pancakes, hiking
miles along back country roads,
through maple sugar groves,
through acres of dispiriting

 
   
 
 
  

mmissary, supplemented by

‘_ esh fruit and vegetables bought along the way.
I \ hat is taken of course depends upon the nature
the trip, its duration and the method of travel,
t the equipment in any case is kept as simple as
' ssible, the stunt being for the girls to see how
uch they can get along without and still be
mfortable. Heading the list is the first aid kit
hich includes a bedding roll and poncho for each
rl, sometimes pup tents, the minimum of cook-
; equipment and personal necessities.

l

    
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
 

' If the girls go by canoe or on horseback, the
oblem of carrying the dufHe is easily solved.
4 they hike some arrangement is made for trans-
rting the heavier equipment by wagon or truck
ause it is not thought wise for girls in their
3 to walk for hours carrying heavy loads no
ter how scientifically packed and placed. The
. ls meet this problem in their own way. In
'chigan, where their gypsy jaunt led them along
ntry roads, they used Molly, 'the old gray
l '- ' turns driving while the rest led the way to
ourage Molly and set her a good example. In
'zona, two slow but sturdy mules pulled the
on over the desert trail. In the effete East
' camp station wagon carted the dufile by the
'n highway, while the girls climbed the moun-
trails.

‘ ‘ e are rather short on wilds in the vicinity of
.o t of our camps, which must of necessity,

l

1'

1 p mare to haul a covered wagon which they_

, scrub oak until iinally and at
last they approached their long heard of but
never before seen goal—the white sand bluffs and
Lake Michigan.

Great Adventures

These girls who set out to find a great lake
would probably tell you that they had just as
thrilling an experience as their Colorado sisters
who set a mountain peak as their objective. The
Colorado girls could see the peak from their
camp, with lesser pine-clad mountains and aspen
tilled valleys stretching between, and early in the
summer they chose it as the goal of their gypsy
jaunt. As they worked about camp perfecting
themselves in outdoor cooking and camping lore
the mountain beckoned, until finally, one August
morning, they were ready to answer its call. With
dufHe tidily rolled in their saddle packs they set
out on horseback to follow the long trail that led
them up and down and up again, and then up and
up to the mountain’s top. Their last camp before
timber line was beside a cobalt blue lake and in
the warm afternoon sunshine they ventured a
plunge into waters which proved to be glacial
both in origin and temperature. The shock of
that experience, and hearing what they insisted
was the cry of a mountain lion, and the tales of a
ranger who was their guide on the last long
stretch above timber line, where what they talked
about most when they came back to camp—that

""

228 GYPSY JAUNTS

and the view from the
top of the mountain.

Girls in Arizona have
mountains to climb, too,
but most of them prefer
their desert. It has as
much lure for them as
sea or mountains or lakes
for some of the rest of
us, and as they describe
it we can hardly blame
them. Theylove its chang-
ing color the red sand-
stone and the green-gray
s a g e , the candle-like
yucca and the flaming
cactus. They love its sur-
prises, especially the tree
fringed tanques which
invitea swim. They sleep
under very bril-
liant stars and
sometimes in all-
e n v e l 0 pin g
moonlight t h a t
makes the desert seem like a great silver sea.

At their camp on vashon Island the Seattle
Camp Fire Girls have the sea all around and
about. It is no wonder that their gypsy jaunts are
by water. They have rigged sails on some of the
camp rowboats and these carry them merrily
ahead———when there is a wind. When the wind
dies there are strong young arms to man the oars,
and on they go. The island covers considerable
territory———there are one hundred and eighty-six
acres in the camp property alone—so it is quite a
trip around the island, especially if one explores
the alluring coves and investigates the streams.
The shore of the island offers a variety of camp-
ing spots, on the sandy beach among the rocks, in
wooded bays or at the outlet of a brook. Camp
Sealth girls always have tall stories to tell after
one of these trips.

And All of It Fun!

In fact, as much fun as the gypsy jaunts them-
selves is the telling about them. First there is the
fun of planning, then the adventures of the trip
itself, the camping and the cooking, and finally
the fun of coming back to camp and telling about

it. Sometimes the girls make up songs about l

their trip, or dramatize exciting incidents for the
evening program, or bring back treasure which

And there's the icy of pursuing, with perfect tree-
dom, individual hobbies in crafts and nature lore.

 

they show and explain, or write
it up for the camp paper. Though
the Colorado girls insist that they
heard a mountain lion (our pri-
vate Opinion is that the ranger’s
stories had something to do with What they
thought they heard) and the girls in Arizona may
have disputed their right of way with a gila mon-
ster, the Wild beasts that are most apt to beset and
distress the gypsies are——mosquitoes.

It would be impossible to describe in detail the
numbers of very different sorts of trips the girls
enjoy. They are important in the camping pro-
gram because girls do enjoy them so much, they
make the something different which camp direct-
ors seek for older girls who have been coming to
camp for a long time, they stimulate interest in
camp craft and nature lore among all the campers,
and they provide an enriching eXperience which
the girls talk about, write about, dramatize and
do not soon forget.

It is logical that many or most of these trips
should start out from camp, since at camp both
equipment and leadership are available, but there
is no reason why gypsy jaunts should not be en-
joyed by groups from town. If the same train-
ing and leadership that the girls have at camp
can be provided in town, equipment and provi-
sions are easily managed. Then the girls will
have the joy of knowing, as they set out from
town, that they will not have to turn back so as
to be home in time for supper; they will have the

(Continued on page 257)

  
  
  
    
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
    

A committee report
f much interest to
recreation, park and

‘school authorities.

l

l

'the particular area. Before en-
ering upon a discussion of
the various types of surfacing
an understanding of these fac-
lftors is essential.

IMPORTANT FACTORS

Varying Climatic Conditions in
Different Parts of the Country

The influence of climate is
perhaps most felt in the effect
of freezing and thawing upon
various types of surfaces. In
the case of a hard SUrface such

differences of opinion among local recre-

ation leaders as to the merits of various
types of surfacing, make it exceedingly difficult,
sif not impossible, to establish definite standards
'for the surfacing of various types of play areas.
‘Each play area presents a special problem in sur-
facing, and the solution depends upon various

0
.WIDELY divergent local conditions and great
0

Courtesy Seattle Park Department
It is quite generally agreed that turf is the

Surfacing Playground Areas

 

ideal surface for most forms of children's play.

factors which must be taken
into COnSideration 35 aEeCting In response to a request made bya group

of recreation authorities that a special
studybe made ofthe problems involved
in surfacing recreation areas, the Na-
tional Recreation Association appoint-
ed _a committee of eleven recreation
executives to conduct such a study.
The Committee decided to limit its
inquiry to such areas as were devoted
primarily to children's play, and to
specially surfaced courts used for
tennis, handball and similar games. An
effort was made to collect information
concerning the various kinds of ma-
terials used for surfacing such play
areas, the methods of constructing
and maintaining the surfaces, and the
cost involved.

as concrete or asphalt, a greater thickness is gen-
erally required and greater care must be given the
subdrainage where heavy freezing occurs than in
a warm climate.
buckling are more likely to occur in a cold region
unless great care is taken in laying the surface.
On the other hand, extreme heat affects many

Cracking of the surface and

bituminous surfaces. Certain
types of soils are not suitable
for use when the frost is leav-
ing the ground, and it is there-
fore impossible to use many
play areas during the late win-
ter and early spring. The
amount of rainfall is some-
times a factor affecting the
problem of surfacing. The
expense of maintaining clay
or turf areas in California
cities, for example, has been
responsible to a considerable
degree for their widespread use
of concrete and asphalt courts.

229

230 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

Wide Divergence in Natural Soil Conditions

It is obvious that natural soil conditions are of
importance in facing this problem. In certain
parts of the country, such as Florida, the soil is
so sandy as to make it unsuited for many play
activities, whereas in other sections the natural
heavy clay soil makes drainage difficult. Different
methods of treatment are obviously needed. On
the other hand, in the upperopart of Minnesota
there seems to be a peculiar soil condition consist-
ing of a sand and gravel covered with a clay loam,
which makes it very easy to obtain a grass growth
and provides a very satisfactory surface for this

particular region.

Location and Size of Area to Be Suriaced

The location and size of the area to be surfaced
have a direct bearing upon the surface to be used.
Intensiver used park areas near picnic grounds,
swimming pools, wading pools and similar facili—
ties, provide a distinct problem. Playgrounds ad-
joining a school building, especially when these
grounds are used for physical education activities
during the school day as well as for general play—
ground activities in out-of—school hours, require a
special type of surface. Small areas in congested
districts used for many different types of activi-
ties require different treatment than larger areas
with possibilities for separation of activities.

Type of Activities to be Conducted

The type of activities to be conducted at a given
area has a relation to the surfacing to be used.
For example, a turf surface is ideal for many
freeplay activities of young children but it is not
suitable for a handball court where an accurate
bound of the ball is essential to good play. On the
other hand, a hard, smooth surface such as is re-
quired for a game like handball, is not to be rec—
ommended for general play purposes. Under cer-
tain types of playground apparatus from which
children are likely to fall, special soft or yielding
surfaces are needed which would not be suitable
for games or other active play.

Extent of Playing Season

The number of months during which a given
area is to be used each year may influence the
type of surfacing. A park playground, for ex-
ample, used only during the summer months, does
not present the same surfacing problems as a
playground which is used throughout the year. It
is often possible to maintain a grass surface
where the area is used for a few weeks only, but

on a year-round playground it is often impossi n
to maintain turf and a natural surface is general
unfit for use during several weeks of the ye
In the case of special areas for games which a
played during only a brief period there may I
less need or justification for special surfaci
than when courts are to be used for many mont

Intensity of Use

The number of persons likely to use an area
another factor to be considered since there is
relationship between the serviceability of the su
facing and the loads that it is to carry. A surfa

receiving constant use by large groups of in
viduals requires different consideration than 0

with intermittent use by large or small grou
Special surfacing is sometimes'needed at portio

of the playground receiving the greatest wear.

Suitability for Flood Lighting
Another factor of increasing importance is t

‘ suitability of a surface for lighting. Absorbti

power of surfacing—effect on glare, reflecti
power, etc., are all points that must be consider
if the area is to be lighted for night use.

Local Tastes, Habits and Traditions

The element of tastes or traditions is probab
more evident in the case of special game, are
than in children’s playgrounds, but it is a fact
with which to'reckon. In certain cities_ whe
concrete or asphalt tennis courts have been i
stalled for the first time, there have been mu.
criticism and objection to their use, largely becau
they were different, whereas after a period of u
they have proved more popular than clay or di
courts. Although public opinion is a factor to I
respected, it is believed that recreation leade
should not hesitate to introduce new metho
which have proved their worth.

Availability of Surfacing Materials

A readily available and inexpensive supply I
surfacing materials makes practicable certa
types of surface in one part of the country whi
would be out of the question in other sectio
In the Northwest, for example, sawdust, due
the abundant supply, is widely used as a su
facing material. In cities where there are ta
neries. tanbark is used under play apparatus a
elsewhere. Many cities report ready access to
supply of special types of sand, gravel, clay, sl
or some other material which is utilized for pl
surfaces. Naturally a city should make an eff

 

  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
    
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
     
     

. use, if they are satisfactory, surfacing mate-
' ls available at comparatively low cost.

arying Local Costs of Labor and Materials

Naturally the local costs of labor and materials
. ve a bearing on the type of surfacing to be
‘ sed in a given city. If, as mentioned above, a
I ertain type of surfacing material is readily avail-
' ble at a low cost, a city should make an effort to
tilize it rather than import a more expensive
roduct. Low labor costs may permit the instal-
tion of a better type of surface than would be
ossible in a city of high labor costs. Since labor
osts also effect maintenance, it may be economi-
al in the long run in a city where labor costs are
igh, to install more expensive surfacing requir-
ng little upkeep than to use less expensive sur-
acing materials, which require considerable
aintenance.

:- ide Divergence in Quality of Workmanship

C] Materials

. Although it differs in type from the consider-
, tions previously mentioned, the possible diver—
ence in workmanship, materials and methods in
: ollowing specifications must be recognized. Many
| xperiments in surfacing play areas have failed

cause the directions were not followed accu-
 ately. So much depends upon selection of mate—
I ials, the method of laying them and the treat—
ents at varying stages of the process that if in
- my respect specifications are not complied with
n unsatisfactory surface is likely to result.

DESIRABLE QUALITIES IN A SURFACE

Important as it is to bear in mind these factors
thich may effect the type of surfacing to be used
n a given play area, it is equally essential to
nderstand the qualities desirable in a play—
round surface. Although other considerations
uch as cost are important, it is obvious that a
urface, to be satisfactory, must be adapted and
\ uitable for play purposes and that the final judg-

ent of a surface is the extent to which it meets
his test. Possibly one reason why surfacing has
roved such a troublesome problem is the fact
hat it is impossible to obtain all of these desir-
l ble qualities in the same surface. However, it is
, dvisable to decide which are the more important
ualities for a particular area and to adopt a type
' f surfacing which will most nearly meet these
{ quirements.

 The following are some of the elements con-
l 'dered important in a good playground surface:

f

   
   
   
 

   

i SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 231

Unless the surface has
this elastic quality
there results e i t h e r
considerable shock to the players or wear on the
area. This quality is especially important on
areas used for long periods of play.

Resilience

 

It is important that
water be drained off
quickly and in such a
way as not to wash out the surface. Subdrain-
age may also be necessary to prevent water from
forming under the surface, thereby creating a
soggy condition. At the same time the soil should

not be so porous that it is neither firm nor free
from dust.

Good Drainage

 

 

It is both Unpleasant
and unhealthful to
play on areas which
are dusty when dry. The surface should be com-
pact enough to prevent excess dust; otherwise
(lust layers should be used.

Freedom From Dust

 

A surface is not satis-
factory unless it with—
s t a n d s considerable
wear without repair or replacement. It must have
lasting qualities and must also be firm enough to
hold up under sudden and severe shocks.

Durability

Children and adults

are bound to fall while

playing, and the sur-
face should be of such texture as to reduce cuts
and bruises to a minimum.

Non-Abrasiveness

A surface should not

only be free from

dust but it should not
injure clothing or soil excessively either persons
or clothing coming in contact with it.

Cleanliness

For many types of
play activities, and to
a considerable extent
for general play purposes, a firm surface is
needed. It is important that it provide a sure
footing and one which is not easily affected by
hard and frequent shocks.

Firmness

232 SURF/ICING PLAYGROUND AREAS

 

A play area should be
comparatively smooth
and free from irregu-
larities and rough Spots. This is particularly true
in games involving the bounce of a ball, and it
also applies to most play activities. On the other
hand, it' is important that the area does not be-
.come slippery when wet.

Smoothness

 

 

A surface should be
suitable for a variety
of uses and under
varying weather conditions. A surface, for ex-
ample, which cannot be used during several
months of the year because of moisture or frost,
has a low percentage of utility and in general
should be avoided. One advantage of hard sur-
faces is that they may be used not only by people
in rubber soled shoes but also in street shoes.

Utility

A surface should be

reasonable in cost:

(I) of construction,
and  of maintenance. The relation between
original and maintenance costs of various types
of surfaces should be studied. Frequently the
more expensive the original surface the less will
be the maintenance cost. The length of playing
season and varying uses are other important fac-
tors to be considered in a study of comparative
costs.

Cost

This involves not only
the general aspect of
the surface but also
its suitability for play. Surfaces should present a
neat aspect and they should
facilitate play. A glaring
surface should be avoided
because of the eye strain re-
sulting from it.

Good Appearance

ESSENTIAL FACTORS IN
SURFACING A PLAY AREA

In laying any surface cer-
tain factors must receive at-
tention if the results are to
be satisfactory. Among them
are drainage, grading, exca-
vation, application of mate-
rials, rolling and treatment
of finished surface. Main-

This statement offers a compilation of
data which it is believed will be helpful
to communities faced with surfacing
problems. It is not a committee report
though it represents much of the inform-
ation gathered by the Committee. Any
comments or corrections of statements
made will be welcomed. It is believed
that an adequate study of this subject is
possible only through personal observa-
tion and study of methods used in a
considerable number
Until funds are available for such a study
it is hoped detailed reports of local sur-
facing experiments will be sent to the

Committee in care of the National Rec-
reation Association.

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
     
  

tenance, including necessary resurfacing, is also '
major importance. Although the procedure di
fers with varying types and sizes of play ar
and surfaces, and detailed methods cannot be d
cussed in this report, a few important principl
are mentioned.

Drainage and Grading

Subdrainage—While this subject is too large
cover in detail in this report, the committee fe
that certain outstanding points should be me
tioned and the importance of this feature of pla
ground construction emphasized. Proper drai
age, especially in the case of turf, soil or crush
stone surfaces, increases the number of hou
that the area may be used and decreases the c
of maintaining it'. If not properly drained, bit
minous and concrete surfaces are likely to cra
or buckle as a result of freezing and thawing.

The purpose of subdrainage is to remove e
cess subsoil water which might otherwise colle
underneath the play area. The purpose of su
face drainage is to remove the excess water fa
ing upon the surface of the area. The subdrai
age is taken care of by providing a porous ba
for the top surface graded so as to permit t
water to be drained to a point outside the are
In the case of heavy soils or unusual moist su
soil conditions a system of tile drains will 1
needed. As a rule, if the natural soil condition
fairly porous, if the sub-base on which the vario
surfacing materials are laid is made parallel
the finished surface and if a porous sub-surface
provided, the subsoil water can be properly tak
care of without the use of special tile drains.
the case of a turf surface there is danger that t
elaborate a subdrainage system may remove '

much moisture from the s
as to make it difficult
maintain the turf.

Where a wet condition
the soil generally preva
due to an abundance v
ground water, it is necessa
to provide a special t
drainage system. Agric

ctural tile is geneially us
laid in trenches with op
joints and back filled w'
porous material such as ci
ders or broken stone. T
spacing of these lines

tile depends entirely on t

of communities.

1

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 233

aracter of the soil to be drained. Naturally, the

avier the soil the closer the drains should be

id. No definite rule can be given as to either the

istance apart or the depth at which these drains
should be placed, but they are frequently spaced
from 15 to 30 feet apart depending upon the soil
water conditions determined by observations made
g'n the field. The grade on these drains, when pos-
ible, should not be less than %” to the foot,
referably Mi”. Local conditions will naturally
etermine the amount of fall that can be gotten
I nd the above figures are merely cited as a guide
nd to indicate what experience has proved to be
tisfactory. It is important to give consideration
.0 the location, size and levels of city sewers if
[drains are to be connected with them,

Proper subsurface drainage allows the surface
to dry out early in spring and following heavy
him. It is also important because any subgrade

pon which stone, bituminous material, concrete,
r any other surface is to be applied must have
.ufiicient drainage at all times of the year to pre-
'ent it from becoming soft with a consequent
r. eak—up or settlement in the wearing surface.
aturally if water collects under a hard surface

L uring freezing weather there is great likelihood
hat the surface will be cracked. If a clay bank
.edge or other under ground condition is found to
.jnterfere with the draining off of subsoil water, it
ay be necessary to lay tile either through or
round the obstruction to prevent water from col-
cting under the play area. The topography of

e ground surrounding the play area also often
as an important bearing upon the amount and

pe of drainage required.

rfaco Drainage
The subject of surface drainage is also of para-

ount importance and is usually taken care of in
ne of two ways, or a combination of both,

amely: that of sloping the surface and allowing
-- excess water to run off the area, or sloping

I'
he surface to a predetermined point where the

ater is collected in catch basins connected with
‘ nderground drains. In this connection it is im-
ortant to remember that where catch basins are
0 be used they can usually be economically
horked out to connect with the agricultural tile
rains installed to take care of the subsurface
ater. On turf areas considerable slope is neces-
ry to insure surface water runoff, a very im-
Ortant point which is frequently overlooked in
e designing of play areas. Unless it is abso-

- tely essential that a turf surface be constructed

perfectly level for some particular sport or game,
it should have not less than eight inches fall per
hundred feet. As a rule the slope should not ex-
tend more than two hundred feet because the sur-
face is likely to be washed out. On a wide field
lateral drains will be needed, and drain inlets
should be placed between the playing fields.

Hard surfaced playgrounds naturally require
less slope to dispose of surface water. Authori-
ties differ as to the amount. The following fig-
ures, however, are inserted as a guide, being based
on experience and found to be suitable:

Clay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6"-—9" slope per 100 ft.
Crushed rock . . . . . . . .. 6” “ “ 100 ft.
Bituminous . . . . . . . . . . .. 6”-8" “ “ 100 ft.
Concrete . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6" “ “ 100 ft.

The care with which any surface is laid with
respect to local pockets and depressions affects the
amount of slope necessary to dispose of most of
the water. The figures given above are based on
what might be termed “average construction” and
they might be reduced slightly, especially in the
case of the hard surface areas, if extreme care is
used in making a smooth and accurate surface.
The possibility of future settlement is another
feature which should govern the slope given to
the surface, as it is necessary to allow consider-
ably more fall if it is probable that local depres-
sions, which cannot be readily filled and brought
up to grade, are apt to develop.

Too much emphasis cannot be laid on the fact
that the providing of sufficient drainage to take
care of the excess subsoil water, and the shaping
and sloping of the surface to provide adequate
disposal of surface water, are of fundamental
importance. They should be considered in the
construction of any play area as they insure a
better and more lasting surface with a lower
maintenance cost, and one on which the play
hours will be materially increased. As previously
stated, the subject of drainage is a large one and
many details which are involved are obviously be-
yond the scope of this committee. Further in-
formation as to the actual methods of caring for
subsurface drainage are available in the bulletins
published by the United States Department of
Agriculture, and helpful data as to the method of
laying, the size of tile available, and prices, are
to be found in the publications issued by the man-
ufacturers of agricultural tile.

Excavating and Filling

In excavating, before laying a surface it is im-
portant that all roots and stumps be removed, for

234 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

if left, they may cause subsequent depressions in
the surface. Similarly, all holes should be care-
fully filled and great care should be taken to see
that no boards or cans are allowed in the fill. All
filled areas should be allowed to settle for several
months if possible. Otherwise they should be
thoroughly puddled. As a rule the subgrade on
which the surfacing materials
are laid should parallel the fin-
ished surface.

Application of Material
The selection, inspection and

application of surfacing mate-

rials are of great importance. A careful check
should be made to insure the materials conform-
ing to the specifications in every respect. The sub-
stitution of inferior or other material may ruin
the final surface. It is also important to check on
the steps taken in laying the surface. If an at-
tempt is made to hasten the work or lessen the ex-
pense through less frequent rolling or watering or
the application of more materials at a time than
called for in the specifications, the results are
likely to be unsatisfactory. It is also important
that the finished surface be protected and not used
until it is in condition for play.

Maintenance

Maintenance is another factor of major im-
portance in assuring a satisfactory playing sur—
face. Except for con-
crete and certain bitu-
minous materials which
need little care, most

 

Illustrations on this page and on page 237 are from
Play Areas—Their Design and Equipment, Copy-
right 1928 by Playground and Recreation Association

of America (now National Recreation Association).
A. S. Barnes and Company. Publishers.

 

A well landscaped and effectively
surfaced area lighted for night use.

 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
   

types of surfaces need frequent attention in 0rd
to keep them in good condition. Depressions r
soft spots need to be filled; rolling, mowing

raking at regular intervals may be necessary, a
sprinkling or applications of dust binders a
often essential. Only by continuous care c
a surface be kept in first class conditi

and the necessity and expen
of providing a new surfa
avoided. Furthermore, it

important that people be ke
off areas when they are not
condition for play.

A GENERAL GROUPING AND CLASSIFIC
TION OF THE VARIOUS SURFACINGS
BEING USED

Although the Committee’s study is limited
the surfacing of children’s playgrounds and a
special game courts such as tennis and handba
the data secured from different sections of t
country indicates a great variety in the types I
materials used for playground surfaces. Arno
the materials in most common use are sand, gr
vel and clay in various combinations, turf, cinder
crushed stone, slag, loam, concrete, various typ
of bituminous materials, and a number'of speci
patented surfaces. These types of surfacing a
grouped under the following headings for pu
poses of this report: I. Turf; II. Sand-Clay
III. Crushed Stone; IV. Bitumino
Surfaces; V. Concrete; VI. Speci
Patented Materials. Each of the
general types is briefly discuss

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 235

i and specifications are given for a number of types
of 'surfacing which have proved successful.

turf
It is quite generally agreed that turf is the ideal
surface for most forms of children’s play and for
many of the highly organized games and sports of
youth and adults. It is believed that it should be
lmost universally used on small areas used for
the play of pre-school age children. It is also es-
yential for use on certain types of special game
ourts such as lawn bowling. Many cities have
.arge playgrounds which are mostly in turf, al-
though it is not practicable to maintain turf areas
an intensively used playgrounds of less than two
or three acres.

Turf is not practicable for small, intensively
used play areas because it is impossible to main-
tain it. Furthermore, it is not suitable for use
When the grass is wet because it becomes too
Slippery, nor can it be used when the ground is
fhawing without harming the turf. It is not prac-
Iicable, of course, for any games requiring an ac-
curate bound of the ball nor where a sure, smooth
footing is required. In order to maintain a good

rf it is necessary that there be a top surface of
It least six inches and preferably nine inches of
Qoam. It is important that the area be not used
after seeding until the turf is well established.
Turf is found on few school playgrounds used
he year-round although it is found on a great
hany park playgrounds used intensively only a

w months of the year.

In some sections of the country—for example,
parts of Minnesota——— the climate is such that
is easy to grow grass and apparently natural
il conditions favor its growth. In Minneapolis
y areas are surfaced with a sub-grade of six
ches of clay upon which are placed six inches
f loam. These areas are then seeded and rolled.
‘ he best quality of loam and clay are used free
om sod, gravel, sand, stones or other foreign
‘ terial. Grass seed is sown at about one bushel
r acre and consists of one-third Red Top to
'o-thirds Kentucky Blue Grass seed. No new
ld is used until the grass is cut at least twice.

I-

State Agricultural Experiment Stations are a
urce of valuable information on various types
grass seed suitable for different conditions,
(1 it is suggested that playground authorities
totemplating the development of turf areas get
touch with the Station in their state. Soil condi-

.ons, amount of shade, type and intensity of use
l

I I

and other factors should be considered before the
seed is selected. By securing competent advice
waste of seed will be avoided and more satis-
factory turf obtained.

Sand-Clay Surface-5*

More cities reported using some type of sand,
clay, gravel or loam surface than any other type.
As a rule cities make use of local materials which
are most readily avilable and at a nominal cost.
It is suggested that before surfacing an entire
play area experiments be conducted with different
percentages of local soil materials in order to de-
termine which combination is best suited for play-
ground use. Naturally the greater the amount of
sand or gravel, the more readily the area drains.
On the other hand the greater the amount of clay,
the more firm the surface is likely to be. Many
of these soil surfaces give a high degree of satis-
faction for playground use during many months
of the year, although most of them cannot be used
during periods when the frost is leaving the
ground. '

Since there is such a wide variation in the con-
tent of soils and since there is value in classifying
them, the following soil chart used by the United
States Bureau of Soils is included:

CLASSIFICATION OF SOILS
Per Cent Per Cent Per Cent

Class Sand Silt Clay
Sand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80-100 0- 20 0- 20
Sandy Loam . . . . . . . ..50— 80 0- 50 0- 20
Loam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30- 50 30- 50 0- 20
Silt Loam . . . . . . . . . . . 0- 50 50-100 0- 20
Sandy Clay Loam .. . .50- 80 0- 30 20— 30
Clay Loam . . . . . . . . . .20- 50 20- 50 20- 30
Silty Clay Loam . . . . . 0- 30 50- 30 20- 30
Sandy Clay . . . . . . . . . .50- 70 0- 20 30— 50
Clay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0- 50 0- 50 30-100
Silty Clay . . . . . . . . . . 0- 20 50- 70 30— 50

Clay—Torpedo Gravel and Sand "‘
(South Parkw—Chlcago)

One of the most commonly used surfacings in
this classification is a clay-sand-gravel combina-
tion. This surfacing is used in several large cities
on both school and park playgrounds, and wher-
ever used is considered fairly satisfactory. One
of the large systems using this surface is the
South Park Commission of Chicago who after
twenty-five years of experimentation have
adopted the following Specifications for their
playgrounds :

“A layer of yellow clay 4” deep is laid on the

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of report.

236 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

area to be surfaced and thoroughly rolled and
compacted to the drainage grade desired; a top-
ping of torpedo gravel and sand up to 3/16”
dimension is then laid loose about one stone deep
on top of the clay. Two applications per year
of calcium chloride crystals are sprinkled over the
surface to absorb atmosphere moisture and keep
the ground free from dust.”

Mr. V. K. Brown, Superintendent of Play-
grounds and Sports for the South Park Commis-
sion, says about this surface: “This type of sur-
face has several advantages. It is springy under
foot', and yet it has a granular texture on the sur-
face to provide secure footing. With the calcium
chloride it remains free from dust and what dust

.___._. ‘7

i
1

arrives at the area. After being spread an ‘
smoothed, the area is rolled to compact the soi I
and brought to an accurate grade. Calcium chlor-
ide is then applied in flake form at the rate of tw
pounds per square yard. 
Agricultural Slag 1'

A number of cities which may readily obtai
slag are using this for the playground surface
The National Slag Association recommends th
use of the material as follows: ,

“For playground work we recommend mixin .
Agricultural Slag with the natural soil of the fiel '
in the proportion of approximately 50% Agri
cultural Slag to a depth of four inches or more '
For best results the slag and soil must be mixe

1

does flow up from it is not sharp
and cutting if it gets into the eye
of a child, as cinders, for exam-
ple, would be. The appearance
is pleasing. The children’s hands
and bodies do not show black
where they have become soiled
with contact with such a surface.
The color does not attract heat
as a black surface does—it re-
mains cool and attractive even on
a hot day and consequently does
not mar the general landscaping
effect in a park which makes
some pretension to beauty of ap-
pearance.”

The success of this surface
seems to depend to a great ex-
tent on the texture of the clay
used. Analysis shows that a clay
with a content of about 30%
sand is the most satisfactory. In
the preceding soil chart this type
of clay is classified as Clay Loam.

Loam 1' (Cincinnati)
The following surface has

proved “most satisfactory in Cin-
cinnati”: The existing surface is

It was agreed at the meeting of
the Surfacing Committee in
Toronto in October, l93l, that
in view of the incomplete in-
formation at its disposal the
divergent opinions as to the
relative merits of different sur-
faces, the great variety of re-
cently developed materials not
fully tested by experience, the
widely different surfacing prob-
lems in various parts of the
country, and the inadequate cost
data available, it was not in a
position to make specific recom-
mendations. The only opinion
expressed by the group was to
the effect that it is important on
all playgrounds used intensively
throughout the year, especially
in connection with schools, that
a part of the area be surfaced
with materials, probably of a
bituminous nature, which permit
of play under all weather condi-
tions. Further, it was agreed
there would be value in compil-
ing and publishing the informa-
tion gathered by the Committee
on materials and methods.

thoroughly. This method of con
struction makes a surface laye
which will temporarily absorb .
heavy rainfall; for best result
there should be a sub-layer, about ,
four inches in thickness, of Agri
cultural Slag, clean coarse cin
ders, or a mixture of cinder
with Agricultural Slag with soil.
In this way the water will no
only be readily absorbed by th
mixture of Agricultural Slag an
topsoil, but it will also be carrie
off through the drainage layer
which should be constructed 0 i
a very slight grade. If sufficien ,
funds are available, a system T.
tile drains should also be place
in this drainage layer to he]
carry off the excess water.”

  
 

The slag referred to is know
as Water-Cooled or Granulate
Blast Furnace Slag and is als
called Agricultural Slag. I
some sections of the countr
principally in the vicinity o -
Pittsburgh, this material is avai
able in sizes ranging from %”

plowed deeply and material is removed to a sub-
grade parallel to and eight inches below the pro-
posed finished surface and having a distinct slope
at all points toward subdrains. The sub-grade is
rolled. The surface consists of eight inches of
sandy top soil. Roots, sticks and other undesir-
able material, including st'ones over 1%, inches in
diameter, are removed from the soil as it is
spread. Top soil is spread as fast as it is deliv-
ered, and it must be leveled the day on which it

down. The material is quite porous and when i

termixed with soil or clay it greatly improv
drainage conditions. Care should be taken not t
use slag from copper furnaces since its metalli
content makes it unsuitable for a playground su
face. One large city which uses slag on a- cind
base on its school playgrounds reports that it '
not proving satisfactory. Better results mig

‘I'For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of repor '

  

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 237

 

perhaps be secured if the
l! slag were mixed with the soil
' as suggested above.

Other Surfaces
A number of California
-cities report the use of de—
composed granite, a product which is apparently
readily available at relatively small expense.
Fresno, California, reports a natural sand-clay
loam surface which is reported to be ideal for
playground purposes since it dries rapidly after a
rain and yet has suflicient clay to hold the sand.
Glendale reports a sandy loam with some decom-
posed granite and clay.

Crushed Stone Surfaces

There is perhaps no type of special surfacing
that is more widely used and is more Open to just
criticism than is crushed stone. Frequently play-
grounds are covered with a layer of coarse, sharp

i stone which provides a loose surface on which it
is difficult to play active games and which cuts
and bruises children who fall on it. The use of
hard sharp crushed stone as a top surface for
playgrounds should be absolutely avoided. On
the other hand certain types of stone, especially

r when a suf’licient quantity of fine binding material
is provided, are being used with satisfaction on
the playgrounds in many cities. ‘

Any attempt to classify all of the grades and
Sizes of crushed stone used with more or less suc-

This photograph showing a West Newton
playground illustrates the difficulty of
maintaining grass under apparatus and
benches and in intensively used areas.

cess on playground surfac-
ings would be a very lengthy
job and probably of little
value since the quality and
texture of stone varies and
there seems to be no definite

standard for sizes of stone. The National Crushed
Stone Association in \Vashington, D. C. reports
that it has been striving for some time to secure
uniformity in the commercial designation of stone
but as yet this standardization has not been ac-
complished. However, it recommends that the
following sizes be adopted as standard:

Nominal Total Percent Passing Square Opening Sieves
Size 3” 2" 1%” 1” V2” #4 #8 #100
2”- 3” 90-100 0—15
1”- 2" 90-100 35-70 0-15
‘2”- 1” 90-100 0-15
#4‘V2" 90-100 0-150-5
0-#4 85—100 10-30
The following are specifications for three types
of stone surfaces which have been reported as

satisfactory :

Limestone Screenings * T

Many cities, among them Newark and Detroit,
which have experimented with several kinds of
surfacing material, are using limestone for play-
ground surfaces. Among the advantages of lime-
stone screenings are that they have. good binding

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of report.
‘I'For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs" at end of report.

238 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

qualities, forming a compact surface after being
used, especially if sufficient fine screenings are
provided, they are very porous, enabling a play-
ground to be used almost immediately after a
rain, and they form a surface which is very suit-
able for use when lighted at night. It is also
suitable for year-round play and costs less than
some other year-round surfaces. Objections have
been raised that limestone is dusty, packs too hard
and has a glare in the sunlight. Dust is eliminated
by the use of calcium chloride which also darkens
the surface thereby tending to reduce the glare.
The. following specifications of the Limestone

Products Corporation of America are used in.

Newark, New Jersey :

Preparation of Ground: All grass, weeds, stones, hu-
mus material shall be removed and ground thoroughly
rolled, after excavating playground to desired contour
and three inches below grade of proposed new finished
surface.

First Course: Apply two inches of “Lime Crest” N0.
8 uniformly over sub-grade surface, wet and roll with a
suitable roller until no waves appear in front of roller—
finished grade of this course shall parallel finished grade
of the finished course. This course shall be wet 'before
the second course is applied.

Second Course: This course shall consist of one inch
“Lime Crest” No. 8 spread evenly over first course and
shall be rolled with a suitable roller and wet between

rollings until no waves appear and a smooth compact
surface is attained.

Third Course: Calcium Chloride shall be spread
evenly over the entire surface, 1% lbs. per square yard.

Fourth Course: % lb. Calcium Chloride per square

yard, shall 1be spread evenly over entire surface, 30 to 60
days after applying the third course.

Note No. 1: “Lime Crest” No. 8 shall not be applied

during freezing weather or at any time when there is
frost on the ground.

Note No. 2: One ton of “Lime Crest” No. 8 spread
three inches thick, will cover 80 square feet in area.

Note N o. 3: Avoid flushing when wetting, apply wa-
ter by either sprinkling or spraying.

Because of local soil or drainage conditions it
is often necessary to provide under the limestone
screenings a layer of cinders or other materials
to assist in carrying off the surface water. In De-
troit, for example, a sub-base consisting of three
inches of cinders is usually laid. Furthermore a

layer of sharp coarse sand, one-eighth inch in
thickness, is applied as the final course.

On the school playgrounds in St. Louis a five
inch foundation of clean cinders is spread evenly
over the entire area, rolled repeatedly with a
heaVy roller until the entire surface is even, and
thoroughly compacted. On top of this is spread

‘l'For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of repo

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
     
     
     
   
  
  

a light coat of one-half inch clean, yellow clay
which is rolled into the cinders to fill up the inter
stices of the cinder foundation. On t0p of this ar
spread two inches of limestone screenings followe
by one inch of limestone dust, to be thoroughl
wet with a hose and repeatedly rolled. All uneve
places which may be developed by reason of wet
ting and rolling should be immediately correcte
and the entire surface left smooth and hard. Thi
type of surface has given a high degree of satis
faction on intensively used playgrounds through
out most of the year.

Limestone and Gravel? (Cincinnati)
The contractor shall neatly grade and smoot
the area by removing humps and filling depres
sions and washouts, then rolling to obtain a neatl
graded surface of well compacted material.

The subgrade shall then be loosened to a dept]
of one-half inch to three-quarters inch, just be
fore spreading the binding gravel. This bindin
gravel shall consist of bank gravel screened of a
particles over one-half in diameter mixed with .
sufficient amount of limestone screening to giv
the proper binding qualities. The exact propor
tions of gravel and limestone screenings canno
be given but will approximate one part limeston
dust to two parts gravel.

This material shall be spread to a depth whic
after rolling will be approximately four inches
Rolling shall be done only when the gravel is suf
ficiently moist to compact. If in the Opinion 0
the Engineer, the gravel contains an insufficien
amount of binder, the contractor shall loosen th
surface of the gravel and mix into it the de
ficiency. Any area thus disturbed shall be rerolle
and the whole left in a thoroughly satisfacto
condition. The roller may be any type of lig
weight self-propelled roller.

Rock Screenings? (Wilkes-Barre)

Rock screenings can be obtained from any ston
crusher that is crushing stone for highway co
struction or railroad ballast. It should be labor
tory tested to show a content of 15 to 25 per ce
shale for binding qualities. Less than I 5 per ce
will not do and 25 per cent is preferable. Fro
50 to 65 per cent should be screenings one-half t
one-quarter inch in size. The balance should r
of finer sizes and shale.

It is best to put on a subsurface of ordinar
cinders after grading. The cinders should be w
and rolled to a uniform thickness of two inche

o
l

  

  
   
  
 
 

l
l ;

SURF/ICING PLAYGROUND AREAS 239

The rock screenings should then be spread to a
depth of three inches over the cinders taking care
llhat there is an even distribution of coarse and
fine screenings. The screenings should then be
thoroughly sprinkled and rolled with a ten-ton
roller. \V hen dry the surface should be wet and
rolled again. It is best if this process is repeated
ree times.

‘ituminous Surfaces
The use of bituminOUS materials for surfacing

layground areas has extended rapidly during the
st few years and indi-
tions point to an even
reater use in the future,
9- pecially on small inten-
'vely used playgrounds
nd on tennis, handball
-. id other special game
. urts. Among the rea-
 ns why bituminous sur-
' ces are being increas-
f gly used are the fol-
T wing (some of them
l 150 apply to concrete
rfaces):
"' They can be played
.pon throughout the
, ar.
i They can be used im-
ediately after a rain.
‘. The expense of main-

ttining them is
@gligible.
0 Cracks or de-

essions occur-
tng in the sur-
ce m a y be

r tched or repaired.

I They can be played on with any kind of shoes.

' They afford an even surface suitable for many
- es of games and activities.

. They permit faster and more accurate play
an clay and other surfaces unless the latter re-
ive continuous maintenance.

Permanent lines marking the boundaries of
rious game areas may be painted on them.
Objections are sometimes raised to the use of
tuminous materials on the grounds that they are
rasive, non-resilient, dirty, absorbent of heat
(1 unpopular. The fact that the opposite argu-
nts are also offered in their favor indicates the
'de difference between the various types of hi-
! iinous surfaces. Since their use is likely to be-
l

l
I

 

At Lincoln Road Playground in Pros-
pect Park, Brooklyn, loose stone is
used on the small children's play area.

come more widespread, it is imiportant that the
relative merits and disadvantages of the different
kinds be given careful study. Opinions differ as
to the relative merits of these methods, but it is
believed that the general comments and specifica-
tions presented in this report will be of value.
Sufficient data is not available at present to en-
able the committee to make any specific recom-
mendations at this time.

Among the many types of bituminous surfaces
reported in use on play areas are cut-back tar
mixed with limestone
r chips, hot-mix asphalt,
rock asphalt (laid cold),
cork asphalt, sawdust
and asphalt, asphaltic oil
with stone chips and
spruce shavings, and
such patented materials
as Bitumuls, Colas. Tar-
vialithic, Tarmac, \Vest-
phalt A and Amiesite.
For the most part these
materials are laid on a
base of cinders or crush-
ed stone several inches
in thickness. Sometimes
they are superimposed
on a base of concrete in
which case the cost is, of
_ c o u r s e , considerably
greater. In some cases the materials
are mixed at the factory whereas in
others the mixing is done on the job.
There is a great variety in the con-
tents of the different surfaces and
in the methods of mixing and lay-
ing them. In the case of sheet asphalt, for ex-
ample, the materials are generally mixed hot at or
near the job—in the penetration method, hot
asphalt cement is poured over a prepared base.
Anyone contemplating the use of bituminous ma-
terials should consult representatives of com-
panies handling them, and also persons who have
used such materials. By consulting local sources
it may be possible to obtain valuable information
as to prices and suitability of materials for a
specific area.

The advantage of using factory mixed mate-
rials is that they are likely to be of more uniform
quality than when prepared on the job. On the
other hand, the cost of shipping the materials
from the plant to the job often adds greatly to

240 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

the construction cost. There is considerable dif-
ference of opinion as to whether the additional
cost of laying cold-mix or rock asphalt as com-
pared with hot-mix is justified by more satis-
factory results. It has been pointed out that
porous asphalt surfaces do not absorb the heat
nor become hot in summer as readily as smooth
surfaces. On the other hand, if the surfaced area
is to be flooded for skating in the winter, it is
necessary to use a seal coat in order to retain the
water.

Perhaps the cheapest asphaltic surface is ob-
tained by simply treating a gravel or sand-clay
area with asphaltic oil on, top
of which is added pea gravel,
stone chips or sand. It is
generally necessary to re-
treat this- surface annually
but after several treatments
a more lasting surface is
built up. This method is not
recommended for general use
because without providing
for adequate subdrainage it
is difficult to maintain a sat—
isfactory surface.
“Penetration” surfaces 1'

The same general method,
known as “penetration” is used with considerable
success by applying asphaltic oil 01; hot asphalt
cement to a specially prepared base. The base
generally consists of about six inches of cinders,
thoroughly rolled, on which is a wearing surface
of about two inches of crushed rock gravel or
limestone aggregate. After the asphaltic binder
has been applied, a thin layer of fine stone is gen-
erally added to fill the voids and if desired a seal
coat is applied which is later covered with a thin
layer of sand. The use of torpedo sand is com-
mon because it is less abrasive than many other
materials.

Tarmac* (Milwaukee)

Typical of the surfaces in which the penetra-
tion method is used is that adopted by the school
authorities in Milwaukee. Reports from several
sources indicate that it is proving highly satis-
factory. The specifications used are given here
because much of the detail is equally applicable
in the case of other kinds of surfaces.

Details of Specifications
Precautions:

The centractor is to take all precautions necessary to
protect existing s'hrubbery, fencing, concrete work and

The subiect of surfacing is only one of
the manytechnical problems which school,
park and recreation officials must face in
laying out playgrounds, athletic fields
and other play areas.
space for game courts, their construction
and maintenance, the question of sup-
plies and equipment, are a few of the
subiects on which officials must be in-
formed. All of these are discussed in a
book entitled "Play Areas—"Their Design
and Equipment," copies of which may be
secured from the National Recreation
Association at $2.50.

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
  

building from damage [by roller, and while various ta
coats are being applied. The contractor is to be hel
responsible for any damage to existing School Boar
property and replacement charges to be held against th
contractor.

l

Surfacing: 

The surfacing shall be done as follows, except servic '
drive as shown, where the stone shall be eight (8
inches thick:

Materials:

Playground Surfacing

(1) Stone Aggregate. The aggregate of the surfac
shall be clean, tough, durable limestone, uniform i
quality and graduation, free from dust, clay or othe
foreign matter, and free fro
thin, flat or elongated pieces. I
shall ‘be graded so that not les
than 95% will pass through
1%” screen or more than 100
pass through a No. 4 screen.

(2) Pea Gravel, Torped
Sand, and Mason Sand. Thes
materials shall be clean and a
uniform quality, equal to th
samples of these materials on fil
in the office of the City Purchas
ing Agent.

(3) Bituminous Binder. Thi
material shall conform wit
specifications #5 for Heavy Ta
Bituminous Road Binder as 0
file in the office of the City Purchasing Agent. (Tarma
“T”).

(4) Bituminous Seal Coat. This shall conform wit
Specifications #4 for Medium Tar Bituminous Road Sur

facing material as on file in the office of the City Pur
chasing Agent. (Tarmac “A”).

The amount of

(5) Cinders. Cinders used in preparation of sub
grade shall be coarse, thoroughly vitrified, free fro
ashes, dust, or other deleterious matter.

Methods:

(1) Subgrate Note: The subgrade of the playgroun
has been rough graded. The playground area to be sur
faced shall be brought to a true grade six (6) inch
below the finished grade. The entire subgrade shall D
rolled with a power roller weighing not less than fi
(5) tons until well compacted and shaped to a tr
grade. The,contractor shall supply fill if needed or r
move any excess ground from the premises.

On the subgrade shall be spread clean, coarse, stea
cinders to produce a layer three ('3) inches thick aft
thorough rolling with a five-ton roller. Rolling sh
continue until the cinders do not form a wave before t
roller and during rolling the cinders shall be kept wet.

(2) Coarse Aggregate. Upon the foundation co
structed as described in the foregoing, the stone aggr
gate of the wearing surface shall be spread to a unifor

?

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of repo
TFor cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” ,at end of repo

  
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

rade and cross section and in sufficient quantity to com-
ct to three (3) inches after final rolling.

(3) First Rolling. The stone aggregate for the wear-
ng surface shall be dry rolled with a power roller
ighing not less than five (5) tons. Rolling shall be-
. gin on one side of the grounds and continue toward the
ther side, the path of the roller each time being parallel
o the preceding path and the wheels each time over-
apping the preceding track by one-half the width of the
'heel. Rolling shall be just sufficient to key the stone.
Any inequalities in the surface after rolling shall be
orrected by the addition or removal of stone as re-
uired. In filling low spots, the rolled stone shall be
oosened with shovels or rakes and the necessary stone
dded. Any parts of the surface containing dirty stone
r an excess of fine material which would prevent com-
lete penetration of the binder shall be removed and re-
laced with clean stone uniform in size with the sur-
ounding stone. All parts of the surface in which the
tone has been disturbed shall be re-rolled until uniform
'ith the surrounding stone.

(4) Application of Binder. The bituminous binder
hall be applied only when the wearing surface stone is
horoughly dry and when the atmospheric temperature is
, 0t less than 50° Fahrenheit.

On the stone wearing surface the bituminous binder,
eated to a temperature of not less than 225° Fahrenheit
or more than 275° Fahrenheit, shall be applied at a pres-
sure of 15 to 30 pounds by a hand nozzle and hose at-
tached to auto pressure distributors, at a uniform rate
of one and four tenth (1.4) to one and six tenths (1.6)
allons per square yard. The truck “distributing the
inder shall, as much as possible, be kept off the play-
round surface. '

(5) Application of Pea Gravel. Immediately after
he application of the bituminous binder, Pea Gravel
hall be spread over the surface in sufiicient quantity to
I 11 the voids between the larger stones. Spreading of the
Pea Gravel shall be done by casting with shovels, and
elivery trucks shall not go on the tarred surface. Only
ufiicient Pea Gravel shall be spread to fill the voids and
, revent the bituminous binder from sticking to the roller.
Should the distributor have cut ruts in the stone, care
shall be taken that they are not covered with pea gravel
ore heavily than the surrounding surface.

(6) Second Rolling. Immediately after the Pea Gra-
1 has been spread, the surface shall be rolled with a
wer roller weighing not more than two and one-half
2%) tons. Rolling shall begin at one side of- the
rounds and continue toward the other side, the path of
e roller each time being parallel to the preceding path
nd the wheels each time overlapping the preceding track
y two-thirds (2/3) the width of the roller wheel. Scat-
ring Pea Gravel shall continue during rolling until the
oids are completely filled but no excess of Pea Gravel
hall remain on the surface. Rolling shall continue until

e wearing course is completely compacted and presents
smooth even surface.

(7) Application of Seal Coat. The bituminous seal
oat shall be applied at a rate of twenty-five one-hun-
redths (0.25) to thirty-five one-hundredths (0.35) gal-

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 241

[on per square yard at the same temperature, pressure,
and by the same method and with the same precautions
used in the application of the bituminous binder shall be

applied on the surface after the rolling of the Pea
Gravel.

(8) Application of Torpedo Sand. Immediately after
the application of the seal coat Torpedo Sand shall be
uniformly spread over the surface so that all voids are
filled and all excess tar absorbed.

(9) Rolling. After the spreading of the Torpedo
Sand, the surface shall “be rolled in the same manner
specified for the second rolling. Rolling shall continue
until the surface shall be uniform, free from ruts or
irregularities in contour, true to the established grade
and shall present a smooth surface.

The contractor shall have in readiness a power roller
of the size specified, and roll the surfaces as specified
before the bituminous binder or seal coat becomes hard
and brittle.

(10) Second Seal Coat. The playground surface shall
be allowed to “set up” for at least seventy-two (72)
hours of dry weather, all loose sand brushed off, and
then a second application of the bituminous seal coat
shall be made at the rate of two-tenths (0.2) to three-
tenths (0.3) gallon per square yard in the manner and
with the same precautions previously used.

(11) Second Application of Sand. Immediately after
the application of the second seal coat Mason Sand shall

be uniformly spread over the surface of the playground
to a depth of one-eighth (I/é) inch.

(12) Final Rolling. After spreading of the sand the
playground shall be rolled in the same manner previously
specified with the two and one-half (2%) ton roller.

Cushion Surfaces

Another adaptation of this method which has
been developed after considerable experimenta-
tion and which has been commended by several

’recreation leaders on the Pacific Coast is that de-

vised by the school authorities in Santa Monica.*f
The use of sawdust in the final surface gives a
resilience which has gained for it the name of
“cushion surfacing.” The following specifications
cover the steps to be taken after the subgrade has

been completed, wetted and heavily rolled:

Thoroughly cover this surface with a layer of crushed
rock (approximately eight pounds to the square foot),
that will pass a 2" mesh screen and retain on a 9.4"
mesh screen. This rock is then wetted, rolled, and forced
into the surface about one-third its diameter, pre-
senting a solid uniform surface.

Upon this surface spray Crosco asphaltic oil (or equal)
at the rate of not less than M gallon of oil per square
yard of surface at a temperature of between 350°F. to
485° F. The oil must be applied with a pneumatic pres-
sure spraying machine using the header or the hose and
nozzle attachment. Then roll with a wet roller.

"' For comments on this type of surface. see end of report.
1' For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of report.

H

Upon this surface spread a layer of crushed rock (ap-
proximately two pounds to the square foot) that will
pass a %” mesh screen and free from dust sufficient to
fill all large voids and thinly cover the two inch rock.
If any depressions show at this stage of the work, they
shall be made true by the application of additional oil
and rock. This surface is then rolled as smooth as the
crushed rock will permit and true to cross section.

This surface is then sprayed with Panco-Z-C asphaltic
oil, (or equal) at the rate of about 94 gallon per square
yard of surface or sufficient to fill all voids and having a
true oil surface. This must be applied with hose and
nozzle especially arranged so as to draw the oil from
as close to the power pump as possible and a by—pass
valve arranged on the shortest possible return to the
tank sump. This must be done to avoid excessive cool-
ing which results in the freezing of the heavy oil in the
hose. As soon as the oil sprayer has passed, and while
the oil is hot, spread surface with spruce shavings or
sawdust free from Redwood, fine dust, or large pieces
which will not pass through a %,” mesh screen, using a
scoop shovel and being sure to thoroughly cover the hot
oil. Immediately roll with a 400 pound roller forcing
as much sawdust into the oil as possible.

Important Suggestions

The spreading of sawdust and rolling should
be done immediately, that is, while the oil is still
hot, because only then can the sawdust be easily
forced into the hot oil.

These specifications will insure a uniform one
inch surfacing and will withstand the trath of
any weight pneumatic tired delivery truck.

The method tried with much success in India-
napolis differs from that in Santa Monica pri-
marily in that the first layers are of rock and stone
chips that have been coated with asphalt whereas
in the latter city the rock is sprayed with asphaltic

oil. The surface is also covered with mineral
coloring.

The following are the specifications used in
Indianapolis.*‘l'

Crushed Rock Surface

After the subgrade has been accepted the surface is to
be covered with a layer of immersed crushed rock at the
rate of approximately one hundred and fifty (150)
pounds to the square yard. (The rock is to pass a two
inch (2”) mesh screen and be retained on a three-quar-
ter (%”) mesh screen. The rock is to be coated with
asphalt, using the mechanical immersing process). The
rock is to be forced by the roller into the subgrade, it
then shall present a solid uniform surface and any ir-
regularities developed must be corrected with additional

immersed crushed rock and rolled until a uniform sur-
face is attained.

Crushed Stone Chips

After the crushed rock surface has been accepted a
layer of immersed stone chips at the rate of twenty (20)

742 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

,dredths (.25) gallons per yard of emulsified asphalt ap

   
 
   
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
  

pounds to the square yard is to be applied (the chips t
pass a one-quarter (%;”) mesh screen and be free fro
dust. The chips are to be coated with asphalt, using t
mechanical immersing process). The chips are to .
forced by the roller into the large voids and thinly co
ering the two (2”) crushed rock, any irregularities a
veloped must be corrected with additional immer
chips and rolled until a uniform surface is attained .
the surface true to cross section.

Saw Dust Surface

After the crushed stone chips surface has been .
cepted there shall be applied fifteen hundredths (.15)
a gallon of emulsified asphalt with an approved pn
matic pressure method, immediately after application .
before the emulsion breaks it shall be covered with s
ficient ground spruce shavings, or saw dust, free fr
red wood, fine dust, or large pieces which will not p
through a one-quarter (%”) inch mesh screen, to I
vent picking up when rolled, the entire surface is t
to be rolled and swept. The last operation shall be c
tinued until all the voids_in the chips are filled and
smooth and uniform coating is attained. At least f0
(4) complete rollings, over a period of one day shall 0
carried on before this coating shall be accepted.

This surface shall then be water moistened until a]
saw dust particles are moistened, then immediately ther
shall be by pneumatic power pressure twenty-five hun

plied. The entire surface shall then be rolled at leas
four times (4) over a period of one day half of the roll
ings one way and half the other alternating. The sur
face shall then be swept broom clean and afterward
given two (2) complete rollings one each way.

Final Color Coating

Upon the prepared surface spread an approved miner
coloring (color selected by owner) in an approved man
ner so that the entire surface is uniformly covered. The
roll at least four (4) times alternating the rollings.

Asphalt and Sawdust * T (Tampa)

Another method used in Tampa and othe
southern cities with success consists also of a saw
dust surfacing. It provides for a priming coat 0
oil to serve as a binder between the base and th
sawdust surface. Tampa uses the followin
specifications :

Carl): We build a concrete curb 4 inches in width an
12 inches in depth to surround the hard-surface area.

Base: A base, 3 inches thick when compacted, 0
either Ocala rock (limestone) or rock screeningS.
laid. This base is made to the contour which the t
surface will have. It is thoroughly wet and rolled ~
that the surface is even and smooth. After 48 hours a
drying, the base is primed with oil (usually crank-ca
oil) and this priming serves as a bond between the I.
and the sawdust cushion surface.

(Continued on page 258)

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of repor
‘l‘For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of repo

.A CoSmopolitan Orchestra t—V

 

Such community orchestras as this in Bloomfield give a chance for
satisfaction and expression to everybody with any musical talent.

The butcher, the baker, the candle-

stickmaker enjoy participation In
a community symphony orchestra.

l LAYING to an audience of five hundred, the
Bloomfield, New Jersey, Symphony Orches-
tra of sixty—four pieces with Walter Kurke-

wicz conducting, gave its first program May 26th.
Thus another orchestra was added to the steadily
growing number sponsored by municipal recrea-
tion agencies.

The Bloomfield orchestra was initiated by C.
A. Emmons, Jr., director of recreation, and his
assistant, Miss Ruby Oscarson. It is a further
step in the process of rounding out the soundly
developing recreation program in this cosmopoli-

l tan modern New Jersey community.

The organization is a cross section of the life
of the community, its personnel including four
salesmen, three mechanics, two carpenters, six
clerks, two plumbers, two bank tellers, a house-
wife, four teachers, a veterinary, a tool maker, a
stenographer, a chemist, a teamster, a gardener,
eighteen high school students, a coffee importer,
four college students, two masons, a janitor, and
Miss Oscarson herself who plays the ’cello.

Charles H. Demarest, Mayor of Bloomfield;
Harold H. Phillips, President of the Recreation
Commission; Councilman \Villiam Huck, Jr., and
J. W. Faust, district representative of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, spoke briefly dur-
ing the intermission in the program. The city
administration heartily supports the recreation
commission, whose members, besides Messrs.
Phillips and Huck, are as follows: Edgar S. Sto-
ver, vice-president; Arthur V. Talmage, secre-
tary-treasurer, and Frank L. Fisher.

The program at this initial concert was as fol-
lows: Grand American Fantasia by Theo. Bendix;
Unfinished Symphony by F. Schubert; Celebrated
Minuet by L. Iloccherini; L’Arlesienne by
Georges Bizet; Symphony No. 5 by Tschaikow-
sky; Liebestraum by Franz Liszt, and the Poet
and Peasant Oz'erture by F. von Suppe.

In a letter of congratulation to Mr. Emmons,
A. D. Zanzig, director of the music service of the
National Recreation Association, made this state-
ment: “It is a great thing to have a civic orches-
tra at any time, but it is a superb accomplishment
to have started so very promising a one in these
times. I can imagine a very much depressed in-
dividual saying to a man of your stamp, ‘Thesc
are terrible times, and there is no telling what
catastrophies are about to fall upon us. What shall

(Continued on page 258)
243

Park Recreation Areas .
. Five years of growth
In the Unlted States For America's Parks

THE publication of “Park Recreation Areas in reported in the earlier study failed to submit

the United States” is of special interest and reports for 1930, it can be fairly estimated that

value at this time because of the unusual con- the municipal park acreage in towns and cities
tribution which parks are able to make in the of more than 5,000 population is at least 350,000
present period of unemployment. So many peo- acres.

ple are unable to afford
the commercial types of
recreation that they are
increasingly depending
upon parks and other
public play areas for their
recreation with the result
that in many cities park
facilities and programs are
serving larger numbers
than ever before. More-
over, parks are affording
great opportunities for the
employment of relief la-
bor which in many cities
is being used in improving
and equipping park prop-
erties.

Perhaps the most strik-
ing an encouraging figures
relate to the amount of
municipal park acreage in
the United States and also
to the growth in park
acreage since the study
conducted in 1925 and
1926. The present report
records a total of nearly
309,000 acres of parks in
898 municipalities. The
total amount reported in
the earlier study which
covered almost the same
number of cities was
238,000 acres. Since some
250 communities which

The estimated park acreage
in cities of over 5,000 is
not less than 350,000 acres.

244

 

Courtesy Seattle Park Department

 

PARK RECREATION AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES 245

Developments in PastIFive Years

A comparison of the present acreage in the 534
municipalities which submitted reports in both
the present and the earlier study indicates that
their acreage in 1930 was more than thirty-eight
per cent greater than it was five years previous.
. This indicates remarkable progress in park acqui-
sition during this brief period. On the other hand,
the lack of appreciation of the importance of
parks in many communities is evident by their
very meager park acreage. One hundred and
seventy-four municipalities reported that they do
not own a single park. It is encouraging to note
that sixty cities of 25,000 or over now own one
or more acres of parks for each 100 of their
population. Although sonic of the park land in a
numb-er of these cities is outside the city limits,
the fact that so many cities have acquired this
acreage indicates the practicability of the stand-
ard of one acre of parks
and playgrounds to each
100 people.

' Recreation Facilities

In view of the increasing
importance of recreation
. facilities and activities in
. parks, the sections of the
report relating to recrea-
tion should be of special in-
. terest to park leaders. De-
tailed examples are given
, of park facilities and activi-
ties in a number of cities
and the total number of facilities and activities of
the cities reporting is also summarized. A tre-
mendous increase is noted in the number of base-
ball diamonds, golf courses, tennis courts, swim-
ming facilities, ice skating rinks and many other
Lacilities. Especially notable is the increase in
Cecilities for outdoor winter use. Among the

ost popular activities are found to be children’s
&y under leadership, band concerts, athletic

gues, water sports, holiday celebrations, winter

from the N. R. A.

In [925 and I926 the National Recreation
Association, at the request of the National
Conference an Outdoor Recreation, made
a study of municipal and county parks in
the United States. The publications coming
From the study proved to be ol: such interest
that in l930 the Bureau oF Labor Statistics,
U. S. Department of Labor, and the Nation-
al Recreation Association cooperated in
gathering additional data to determine the
progress made in the past Five years. The
findings appear in Bulletin No. 565, copies
of which may be secured from the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, Washington, D. C., or

set ,out and the total ,number of plants reported
set out during the year in 214 cities was 5,500,000.
More than 5,000 acres were reported graded in
185 cities, nearly 1,000 miles of roads were con-
structed in I 16 cities and 53 cities reported a total
of 293 miles of parkways and boulevards con-
structed during the year. Nearly 1,000,000 trees
were trimmed and a greater number were re-
ported sprayed by park authorities. These few
figures indicate the great contribution which park
leaders are making to the creation and mainte-
nance of beauty in American cities.

Expenditures

Information concerning park expenditures was
submitted by 750 cities, 704 of them reported
their total park expenditures for 1930 to be some
$96,000,000. Approximately forty per cent of
this amount was spent for salaries and wages.
Four hundred sixteen cities
repOrted their park expen-
ditures for land, buildings
and improvements for the
five year period 1926-1930
and the total amount was
nearly $200,000,000. Bond
issues voted during the
same period in 148 cities
amount to $153,000,000.
These figures all indicate
the importance which parks
play in municipal financial
planning. Figures based on
the study have also been
compiled relating to the per capita expenditures
for parks in cities of varying population groups.
Likewise, a study has been made of the sources
of park funds.

Other Facts of Interest

Among other items included in the report are
the number and acreage of municipal park prop-
erties located outside the city limits. One hun-
dred eighty-five cities reported a total of 380 such
parks with a total area of nearly 90,000 acres.

I morts and pageants.

Types of park properties are also classified.
Figures indicate that there is a marked need for
additional children’s playgrounds and neighbor-
hood playfield parks. Large parks comprise more
than 115,000 acres or considerably more than one-

, Construction and Maintenance
', Especially impressive are the figures relating to
,szcral types of construction and maintenance

lurvice performed by park departments. Nearly

500,000 trees were reported planted by park au-
thorities in 364 cities in 1930. More than 800,000
shrubs were planted, nearly 3,500,000 bulbs were

third of the total park acreage and areas of the
reservation or forest park type cover more than

(Continued on page 259) ,

 

“Little Jane Patchwork”

Playground drama, to be successful, calls for

HE success of the institute
T as a means of introducing
more drama in the play-
ground program was demon-
strated in Brooklyn this spring with effective re—

sults. The drama course was included in an '

institute covering dancing, music and other phases
of playground activities. All Brooklyn play—
ground directors attended the ten lectures and
not a little of the success of the project was due
to the fact that attendance was compulsory. The
Supervisor of Recreation, Mr. John  Downing,
and his staff were present at every lecture and
lent their enthusiastic support to the class.

All phases of production of plays for children
between ten and fourteen years were discussed.
When the COUrse was half finished Mr. Downing
announced that every director present would be
expected to put a play into rehearsal immediately
so that the production methods learned in the
weekly classes might be applied at once. At the
conclusion of the course a festival of nine plays
was produced. All playgrounds could not be rep-
resented on this occasion but the fourteen play—
grounds not represented were later visited by

246

certain essentials.
interest and a willingness to work hard.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  

Mabel Foote Hobbs, drain.
consultant of the N ationa
Recreation Association
who conducted the insti
tute. Twenty-three play
grounds produced play
and in many cases this wa
the beginning of a sum
mer drama program. Plan
are now being made t
build a miniature theatr
in one of the largest o
the shelter houses, one s
situated that a number 0
neighboring playgrOUnd
can use it. When the lit
tle theatre is complete
the directors will be give
an additional lecture an
demo n stratio
showing simpl
inexpensive meth
ods of putting u
draperies and us
ing lights. Ther
is every indicatio
that within a few years Brooklyn will have on
of the best organized children’s playgroun
theatres in the country.

The secret of the institute’s success was th
supervisor’s keen interest and his determinatio
to introduce drama on a sound technical basis
This parallels the situation found in the publi
schools. Where the principal is drama minde
there is a strong, successful drama program. I
other schools where the attitude is one of indif
ference to production methods but of insistenc
that somehow plays be given, there are sure to I
found over—worked teachers putting on poor 1i
tle plays which have cost them an immens
amount of time and trouble.

Among them are a real

Drama Wins Its Way

The Brooklyn institute presented all the pro
lems that are usually met with in attempting t
put drama on the playground. The directors wer
a typical group ofeexperienced workers and th

methods used, which made the tournament such
a marked success, might be employed with any
group anywhere. Most playground directors are
inclined to be hesitant when drama is suggested.
They are doubtful of their own ability; they
dread the hard work envolved in entering a field
that is foreign to most of them. It is almost
necessary to make attendance at lectures a re-
.quirement and to insist that a play be produced
by every director. After that it is no longer
necessary to speak of the value of drama on the
playground. For after the first play has been pro-
;duced the directors are so thoroughly convinced
of the children’s happiness in participating, and
'they themselves experience such satisfaction in
bringing about a good production, that they will
invariably be willing to make almost any sacri-
fice to carry on the work. Given this one oppor-
tunity the children will “sell” drama to the
director.

The children's contribution cannot be over-
estimated. They give far more than they receive
in their first play, if it is produced along correct
technical lines. They give the director confidence
in herself and in them. To the children it is just
another outlet for their energies. They approach
it with the same eagerness and fearlessness with
which they undertake any of their other activities.
They bring their courage and their wealth of
talents to their director. If she has the knowledge
that will enable her to use these gifts, she is in-
deed poor in spirit who is not thrilled with the
. resultsand anx-
ious to go on.
The festival of
'plays w hi c h
t h e Brooklyn
children presented was
captivating in the fresh
spontaneity, the poise and -
composure of the little
actors and the cooperation
and sense of reSponsi-
bility toward their direc-
tor and their group that
were exhibited.

And when the nine lit-
tle plays were presented in
the Picnic House in Pros-
pect Park at the close of
the institute it was dem-
onstrated most interest-
ingly that the average

 

Technical instruction plus ingenuity make
a combination which can cope successfully
with problems of setting and costumes.

PLAYGROUND DRAMA THROUGH THE INSTITUTE 247

playground director, given the necessary techni-
cal information, has sufiicient ingenuity to pro-
duce a creditable first play. One director made
an attractive outdoor set by covering hat racks
with strips of green crepe paper. This simple
devise made a cool woodland setting for Vir-
ginia Olcott’s “Little Jane Patchwork.” The
children helped make the scenery and found a
rightful pride in this bit of stage craft. “Can’t

you just smell the pine trees ?" an imaginative
little scenewright asked a visitor.

A great advantage in introducing drama
through the institute is that it enables all play-
grounds to begin play production at the same
time and on the most efficient basis. A series of
classes demonstrating the shortest, easiest and
best methods that an experienced drama director
has worked out, will save an immense amount of

-hard work and discouragement. \‘Vithout some

instruction the amateur director is almost doomed

to failure; with it, her work is simple and
successful.

Another valuable feature of the institute as it
was conducted in Brooklyn was the opportunity
afforded each director to receive criticism of her
production on her own grounds where practical

suggestions for adapting her particular facilities
could be made. This follow-up service was given

to fourteen directors who were unable to present
their plays at the festival. Before Mrs. Hobbs'
visits to the playgrounds, the children were pre-
pared by their directors to accept her criti-
cism and at the conclusion of their little
plays they gathered around, eager to hear
of their mistakes and to learn how they
might be corrected. They took adverse

 

“Pussy Cat. Pussy Cat, Where Have You Been?”

248 PLAYGROUND DRAMA THROUGH THE INSTITUTE

criticisms seriously but cheerfully and a little girl
who happened to meet the consultant the day
after her own playground had been visited, de-
clared, “We got all those points you told us about.
We’re going to make it much more expressive
when we give it on May Day!”

The directors themselves placed no limits on
their efforts to have their plays as attractive as
possible. No matter how tiny their shelter houses
were, they managed to make little stages and even
in the poorest districts they costumed the plays
attractively. The best curtains and bed spreads
that indulgent mothers could be persuaded to loan
were in evidence as backdrops and curtains. One
of the playgrounds presented “Darby and Joan”
which calls for a house to shelter the little man
and woman who appear to indicate changes in the
weather. Enough discarded lumber was obtained
from a motion picture house to build a snug lit-
tle cottage which the children painted green. Even
the men employed to work on the grounds took
an interest in launching drama as bravely as pos-
sible. On one ground the men made flowers from
discarded papers in which oranges are wrapped
and these were arranged as footlights to mark
the limits of the miniature stage. Odds and ends
of old dresses and left over pieces of cloth as
well as crepe paper made charming costumes. In
all of the little productions nothing was allowed
to be haphazard. Directors and children alike
made the most of the simple things they had to
work with.

The Value of Follow-Up Visits

While the institute sets the drama project in
motion, the follow-up visits to the individual play-
grounds are invaluable in insuring successful re—
sults. It only remains for the director to make
drama as much an every day affair as any of the
other playground activities. Then when the time
comes to put on a playground entertainment, none
of the various phases of playground life will suf—
fer while everyone concentrates on the stupend-
ous task of preparing a lone play. Play produc-
tion will be so familiar to the children that it will
be no effort to select, cast and rehearse a play for
any occasion. As most of the plays recommended
for playground use are short, the Brooklyn di-
rectors were advised to bear in mind that one play
does not run long enough to bring an audience
together for that alone. But as it takes a consid-
erable number of rehearsals to prepare even a

short play, she will be apt to forget that the actua
playing time is ten to fifteen minutes and that a

audience would be disappointed in finding the en
tert‘ainment so brief. A more elaborate and sat
isfying program can be prepared by using demon
strations of other playground activities such a
dancing, singing and tumbling. Thus a repre
sentative playground entertainment can be plan
ned around the play, a larger number of childre

are able to display their favorite skills and th
audience will feel satisfied in having made th

effort to attend.

The following is a list of the plays that wer
produced on the various Brooklyn grounds
“The First Easter Egg,” “The Three Bears,’
“The Adventures of Betty,” “The First Easte
Basket,” “The Lover’s Errand,” “The .Fairy an
the D011,” “Pussy Cat,” Little Jane Patchwork,
“Pat and Mike,” “The Princess’ Birthday,” “Re
solutions of Any Child,” “Once in a Hundre
Years,” “King Roughbeard and the Princess,
“Chicken Little,” “Any Child Helps the Bab
Tree,” “Eva’s Back Yard,” “The Sentiment
Scarecrow,” “Darby and Joan,” “The Magi
Basket,” “The Love Nest,” “Little Red Ridin
Hood,” “May Magic.”

NOTE: With August comes the problem of th
closing event of the playground season which i
a number of cities takes the form of a festiva
The following festivals and pageants have .
been successfully used for this purpose: Tl
Gifts, which provides the background for the i
troduction of a demonstration of local play activ'
ties, an excellent means of interesting local res
dents in a city’s recreation program; Silver Bel I
and Cockle Shells, by Marion Holbrook, c0
bining verses, songs and dances and The Mag
Path, by Elizabeth H. Hanley, a delightful fai
play for children.

If you have not as yet celebrated the Washin
ton Bicentennial, which is to be extended throu
November, 1932, this summer offers an opportu
ity to produce In the Hearts of His Comm
men, by Marion Holbrook, the action of whi
follows the life of Washington through his b0
hood and his career as general and president. T
may be effectively used as a closing festival.

All of the publications mentioned may be ~
cured at $.25 each from Community Drama Ser
ice, National Recreation Association.

I

 

Land
Gifts

for

Recreational

Use

IFTS of land for recrea-
6 tion use have played an

important part in the de-
velopment of park and play-
ground systems in many Amer-
ican cities. The realization that
such donated areas provide for
all time. opportunities for whole-
some recreational activities or for
“peaceful enjoyment amid beauti-
. ful surroundings" has proved a
great incentive to giving land for
parks and playgrounds. \Vhile
rendering a worthwhile service
to the community, such a gift is
likely to increase in value and
usefulness with the passing
years.

According to a study conducted
two or three years ago, nearly
one thousand communities have
benefited by such gifts, the num-
ber of which exceeds three thou-
sand. The importance and scope
.of these donated areas is appre-
ciated when it is estimated that
nearly one-third of the entire
city park and playground acre-
age in the United States has been
acquired through gift. The total
donated area is approximately
80,000 acres and although the
value of most of the properties
i 'has not been reported, less than

 

‘~;.., _ " ,

Russell Gardens, Great Neck, N. Y.

 

"The adoption of a park and
playground program frequently
results in the donation of land
for park purposes by public-
spirited citizens, or by owners
who see the advantage obtain-
able for their adjoining sub-
divisions.’I

 

The list of areas donated
to communities, counties
and states, is one which
increases almost daily.

one-third of the acreage is valued
at nearly $100,000,000.

It is inevitable that such a
great number of donated parks
and playgrounds should include
many sizes and types of proper-
ties and varying conditions of
gifts, although in most cases the

. land is owned by the donor or

purchased outright and turned
over to the city; frequently the
money for the park or play-
ground is presented to the city.
In some cases the owner improves
and equips the land before it is
donated; in others the gift in-
cludes funds for improvements
by the city, whereas the gift gen-
erally consists of land alone. The
types of areas vary from the city
lot given for a small children’s
playground to the large outlying
park or reservation. No section
of the country can claim a ma-
jority of these donated areas
which are found in every state.
In many cities the park system
is largely or entirely due to gifts
of public-spirited citizens. Among
these cities are Council Bluffs,
Iowa, LaCrosse, \Vis., Beau-
mont, Texas, Boulder, Colorado
and Raleigh, North Carolina.
Gifts of park property have

249

250

played a large part in the development of park
systems in such cities as Bridgeport, Waterbury
and Hartford, Connecticut,
Rapids, Michigan, and Springfield, Massachusetts.
All the playgrounds in Orange, New Jersey, are
reported to have been acquired through gifts.
Many of the parks in W ilmington, Delaware, are
gifts to the city. Recently two very valuable
areas have been received.

The few areas briefly described here have been

made during recent years
and are typical of the
similar gifts to hun—
dreds of communities.
Although many gifts
were made prior to 1900,
there has been a marked
increase both in number
and acreage of donated
parks and playgrounds
with each succeeding de-
cade of the twentieth
century. In 1930, fifty—
eight gifts of land for
active recreation use
alone were recorded, to-
talling 1,139.21 acres.
Adjoining the Leila ar-
boretum in Battle Creek,
Michigan, is an 80 acre
tract crossed by a creek
and dotted with woods,
recently given to the city
by W. I. Fell. This area
is to be used as a natural
park and playground for
both summer and winter
sports, with a series of
lagoons providing facili—
ties for skating and ca-
noeing. Baseball dia-
monds with bleachers,
tennis courts, children’s
playground, picnic center
and open air theatre are
among the proposed fa-
cilities. The park will be
developed in harmony
with the arboretum, and
its hills, ravines, marshes,
brooks and varied trees
and native Hora lend
themselves to the creation
of an area of unusual

 

LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE

Flint and Grand

Beautiful views in the forty-acre tract given the
City of Wilmington, Delaware, in June, 1931,
by Mr. Edward Bringhurst and his sister.

beauty. Mr. Fell was prompted. to acquire th'
property by an address made by the Mayor
which he emphasized the need for added parks an
playgrounds, especially in this part of the city.
Many gifts have been made as memorials to
member of the family, a public official or to
prominent citizen. An example of such a gift
the recently dedicated Louis A. Frothingha
Memorial playground in North Easton, Mass
chusetts. This splendidly equipped area of

l

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 

acres was presented
the town by Mrs. Frot
ingham in memory 1
her husband who, follo
ing his study at Harva
where he was leader
athletics, rendered effe
tive public service
various positions of lar
responsibility. The (1
sign for the playgroun
prepared by the Nation
Recreation Associatio
provides an athletic fie
with a quarter mile trac
co n c r ete grandstan
children’s playgrou
and many facilities f
games and sports.
“Building Americ
citizens and runing co
ton mills to pay the e
penses,” was once t
answer of Fuller
Callaway of Legran
Georgia, to the questi
of a stranger as to
occupation. School
churches, and recreati
centers are among
gifts to the city of l
birth. On June 15th t
City Council accep
the Church Street .-
presented to the city
honor of Mr. Callax
by members of his fa
ily. The park consists
ten and a half acres c
taining beautifully la
scaped areas, pi
grounds, tennis con

and playgrounds.
High Point, No

l
l

l

l

l

' '.
l
i
' I.

l
:!

 

.. :1

 

LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE 251

Carolina is another of the Southern cities which
have recently benefited by the generosity of their
citizens. David H. Blair, former United States
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. and his fam-
ily presented to the city a tract of 75 acres which
is to be developed as a municipal recreation center.
Plans provide for a nine-hole golf course with
clubhouse, a playlield and a beautiful park. Dal-
las, Texas, which has acquired several parks

through gift has recently been given a l76—acre:

park by Mr. Edwin J. Kiest, publisher of the
Daily Times Herald of that city. Durham, North
Carolina now has a municipal golf course, one of
three properties recently given the city by a local
capitalist, John Sprunt Hill. The other two gifts
are Hillside Park for negroes comprising 15 acres
with a swimming, wading pool and other facilities
and a smaller area adjoining one of the negro
schools.

Perhaps one of the outstanding recent park
gifts is that of Miss Aline Barnsdall who gave the
City of Los Angeles a beautiful landscaped site
known as the “Mount of Olives,” now called
Barnsdall Park. A second gift of an adjacent
site enlarged the park which is ideally adapted to
its use as an art center under the City Playground
and Recreation Department. Music, dancing,
sketching and dramatic productions at the “Little
Lattice” outdoor theater are features of the pro-
gram at this center. A small children’s playground

l Such scenes as this in South West Park in Wilmington, donated by a number
I of public-spirited citizens. make summer’s heat bearable to city dwellers.

 

located on a series of terraces under the olive
trees and a wading pool of Aztec design are also
provided.

Plans are also under consideration for a pop-
ular observatory to be erected in Oglebay Park,
a beautiful area of farm and woodland given to
the city of Wheeling, \Vest Virginia, a few years
ago under the will of the late Col. E. W. Oglebay.
This splendid gift, the value of which is esti-
mated between one and _two million dollars, is
providing a center for a varied program of rec-
reational activities under the direction of the State
University Extension Division and the city park
authorities. The many line buildings, gardens,
roads and the miniature arboretum on the estate
lend themselves admirably to park and recreation
use. In addition to the usual types of active rec-
creation, many unusual experiments in nature, art
and cultural community activities are being con-
ducted at the park.

A study of recreation areas in many cities re-
veals the fact that there is generally a greater
deficiency in children's playgrounds and neigh-
borhood playlields than in any other type of park.
It is not surprising therefore to find that many
citizens, recognizing this need, have given such
areas to their communities. One recent gift of
this type is Scott Playlield in Lansing, Michigan,
presented to the city by Mr. R. H. Scott, presi-
dent of the Rec Motor Car Company, and by
Mrs. Scott. This ten-acre
plot in a closely built sec-
tion of the city was given
under the condition that it
be controlled by the Park
Commission, be equipped
and developed by the city
and operated as a play-
ground. The influence of
such a gift, beyond the joy
and recreation it brings to
the people using it is sug-
gested in an editorial com-
ment: “The Scott play-
field ought to be taken as
the text of a larger idea.
Henceforth no subdivision
should be admitted to this
or any other city that does
not have in it provision
for the playlife of chil-
dren.”

Among o t h e r recent
playground gifts is the

252 LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE

 

bequest of Dr. Ernst Her-
man Arnold of the Arnold
Gymnasium in New Haven,
Conn., providing for the
purchase by the city of a playground in the most
thickly congested district of the city. Mr. William
Louden, who for 89 years has lived in Fairlield,
Iowa, where he was brought by his parents when
only a few months old, and who for many years
has had an active interest in the playground move-
ment, has left a permanent memorial through his
gift of a playground to that city. Although turned

over to the village several years ago, Edwin Gould
Park and Playground in Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.,

height of 115 feet.

It would be difficult to imagine anything
more beautiful than these falls in Enfield
Falls State Park as they plunge froma

named after the donor, is
now being improved and.
made available for recrea-
tion use. The plans provide.
for an athletic field and children’s playground on
different levels and an attractive lield house de-
signed to serve both sections of the area.

Close to the church at which John Adams and
John Quincy Adams worshipped in Quincy, Mass,
lies a park and playground of twenty acres known
as Faxon Field. This area was given to the city
by Mr. Henry M. Faxon many years ago with
the understanding that tide gates be built to con-
trol the flow of the tidal stream flowing through.

L: z

LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE 253

the property and a system of drains be laid. These
and many other improvements have been made
and an athletic field, several tennis courts and a
children’s playground have been installed at Mr.
Faxon’s expense. During the past winter he em-
ployed a group of men in further filling and grad-
'ng the area and in improving a grove which will
' erve primarily as a center for women and young
hildren.

As a rule, land dedicated to public park or rec-
eation use is turned over to the city, but some-
imes the donor deems it advisable to retain title
0 the property or to place it in charge of a board
If trustees. The splendid area of 107 acres known
1. Look Park, a gift to the people of the city of
'orthampton, Mass, from Mrs. Fannie B. Look,
5 held in trust by a self-perpetuating board, one
f them to be the Mayor during his term of office.

he natural beauty of this tract has been pre-

~ rved in its development as a recreation center.
Among the facilities in the park are a large swim-
ing pool and bath house, athletic field, children’s
~u yground and a great variety of areas for games
(1 sports. In addition to her gift of the land,

' rs. Look created a fund of $450,000 for the

velopment and maintenance of the park.
0

Finding Satisfaction in Giving

The genuine satisfaction which has come to the

. nors of play areas through a realization of the
rvice rendered by their gifts is suggested by the

. .any instances where a person who has donated
: park or playground has subsequently enlarged
' e area or made other gifts. There are probably
wa if any men who have had a part in providing
ore play areas than Mr. Nathan D. Bill of

’ pringfield, Mass. Mr. Bill, who is an Honorary
l ember of the National Recreation Association,
1 5 made a hobby of building up the park
' stem in his city and
I as donated several
laygrounds and other

. ecreation areas. Among
he former are memor-

ials to his mother, to
his wife and to Mrs.
. ills’ father. Land was
150 contributed toward

~ municipal golf course

'and in 1930 Mr. Bill
ave $10,000 toward
he improvement of an-
her recreation area

' 'hich was purchased by

 

the city and is to serve as a “at Memorial. In
addition to his many gifts of land, Mr. Bill has
generously contributed toward the cost of equip-
ping and improving them.

Few cities are as fortunate as Flint, Michigan,
in having a citizen who contributes so largely on
his time, effort and means as Mr. J. Dallas Dort,
“Father of the Flint Park System.” As a token
of its appreciation of his services and gifts to the
city, the Common Council on February 14, 1927
adopted an ordinance naming the park system of
Flint the “Dort Memorial Park System.” The
successful efforts to create a park board by refer-
endum in 1906 were largely due to Mr. Dort’s
initiative and the employment of Warren T.
Manning to lay out a city wide park plan for
Flint was arranged and financed by him. Several
of the finest parks and playgrounds of the city
were given by this prominent manufacturer and
he has contributed generously toward their main-
tenance and improvement. Waterworks, Gilkey
Brook, Oak, Dort School, Atwood and Burroughs
are parks given in whole or in part by Mr. Dort
who also presented the city with Hughes Play-
ground. The influence of his gifts has been evi-
dent from the many other splendid donations to
the city park system.

\Vilmington, Delaware, is another city in which
a majority of its park acreage has been acquired
through gift, and here again one man, Mr.
\Villiam P. Brancroft, has been the leading spirit.
Appointed member of the original city Park Com-
mission which was created in 1883 after strenuous
opposition, Mr. Bancroft served continuously
until 1928, a period of forty-five years. During
this period he not only gave service of inesti-
mable value to the parks of the city but his ten
gifts of land represent nearly forty per cent of its
present park area of more than 600 acres. A few
other examples of re-
peated gifts are the fol-
lowing: Jacob D. \Vad-
dell of Niles, Ohio, re-
cently added twenty-
three acres to a pre-
vious gift of fifty-two
acres for park purposes. I
Although much of the
property will be devel-
oped as a natural park,
part of the area will be
used for baseball, pic-
nics and other places of
active recreation. Hon.

254 LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE

Lucius N. Littauer, of Gloversville, N. Y., an
Honorary Member of the National Recreation
Association, in 1928 presented to the city his sec—
ond gift of a recreation area. It is primarily a
large swimming center. known as the Littauer
Swimming Pool, fully equipped and with an
attractive landscape setting.

Probably no gift for park purposes has as great
land value as the recent gift by John D. Rocke-
feller, Jr., to New York City. Under the terms
of the gift the city receives a beautiful, partially
wooded park of fifty-six acres bordering on
Riverside Drive and with a commanding View of
the Hudson and the Palisades. Within the bor-
ders of the park is to be erected at a cost of
$3,000,000 to $4,000,000 a museum building to
contain the collection of Gothic art of the Metro-
politan Museum of Art. Fort Tryon of historic
Revolution significance is within the park boun-
daries and it has been proposed that the area be
called Tryon Park. The value of the land, its im-
provement and the cost of the museum is esti-

mated to be $15,000,000.

Gifts for County and State Parks

Perhaps the outstanding development in the
park movement during the last decade has been
the remarkable growth in the number of counties
providing one or more parks. According to a
recent study more than sixty county parks have
been acquired, at least in part, through gift, and
the total donated area is reported to be in excess
of 5,000 acres. As in the case of many city park
systems, gifts of land for park purposes have
greatly stimulated park service in several counties.
In Wayne County, Michigan, for example, the
initial impetus to establish a park system resulted
from an offer of 162 acres, now known as Eliza-
beth Park, for park purposes. This gift was
followed by two others and not only did these
gifts result in the beginning of a park system in
this metropolitan county, but-they prompted the
securing of more favorable state legislation relat-
ing to county parks. The first unit in the splendid
Monroe County, New York, park system was
Ellison Park of 210 acres, a gift of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank T. Ellison in memory of Mr. Ellison’s

father. The Union County, New Jersey, Park,

Commission reports gifts of land exceeding
$500,000 in value.

Parkways comprise an important feature of
many county park systems and in acquiring land
for these areas, many counties have been assisted
by generous gifts. In VVestchester County, New

  
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   

York, where property values are very high, mor
than 150 acres have been donated by Mr. J0
D. Rockefeller, Jr., Mr. W. Delevan Baldwi
formerly chairman of the County Park Commi
sion, the Briarcliff Realty Company and other
Almost the entire acreage acquired by the Akro
Ohio, Metropolitan Park Board prior to 1930, w
in the form of gifts totalling nearly 1,000 acr
Of this area Mr. F. A. Seiberling gave 400 acr
and Mrs. Charles F. Brush, Jr., 330 acres.

An unusual gift for a park and highway is
Boone, Iowa. There is an old railroad bran
line of C. and N. W. Railway following the w
boundary of Hinnan and McHose Parks for abo
one and a half miles. It runs through beautif
timber on to the Des Moines River which it f
lows for about a mile, then goes on through u
touched natural timber for about two and a h
miles to its intersection with the Lincoln Hig
way. Along this railroad is the old home of Ka
Shelley, who fifty years ago, when a girl of fiftee
risked her life to warn a passenger train of t
washing out of a bridge along the creek in fro
of her home. Realizing its debt to her, the ra'
road has transferred all its rights and interests
the county for the construction of a Kate Shell
Memorial Scenic Highway, and all the individua
to whom the strip of land would revert have al
assigned over all rights for the same purpose.

The McHose Park, through part of which t
highway will pass, is a tract of approximate
140 acres given the city by J. B. McHose, fo
merly a resident of Boone. It consists of beau
ful heavily wooded ravines extending from lar
open blue grass areas of high land to a windi I
stream below. Mr. McHose also left his esta
of approximately $100,000 for park purposes. I

Through the generosity of one of its wealt
citizens and nature enthusiasts, the late Willia
J. Matheson, Dade County, Florida, is in posse
sion of a park of nearly 100 acres. This par
known as Matheson Hammock consists mainly I
a tropical hammock growth and it is believed t
there are only two such areas of truly trooi
Florida flora under public ownership and this
by far the larger of the two. Thousands of visit
wander through the trails cut in the tangled un
growth and in one corner of the park the com
maintains a picnic ground in a five acre gro
of live oaks. Another large park area of 2,
acres known as Highlands Hammock in Hi
lands County, Florida, has been purchased by I
Roebling family of New Jersey for use as

(Continued on page 260)

 

? World at Play

' THE annual report

Nail-Elm 33:35:11 of the P1aygr0und and
ayg Recreation Commis-

sion of Des Moines,
'owa, states that an increasing interest is dis-
layed each year in the nature program con—
ucted on the summer playgrounds. This pro-
ram consists of nature trails, the identification
f trees, Bowers and birds, the making of blue
-rints and similar activities.
’ “The playground director has an opportunity
0 take advantage of the instinctive love boys and
irls have for all things that live and to help
hem learn some of the secrets of nature. On the
layground itself there are many chances to ob-
rve insects, their ways, their homes, and meth-.
ds of self-protection. There are weeds and
lants on the grounds that have interesting things
bout them. Encourage those who have had some
raining to lead others who are interested. At-
raetive bulletin boards with plants or animals on
hem, nature stories, etc., will stimulate interest.
ften there are people in the neighborhood who
re very much interested in nature work. They
n frequently be induced to lead nature hikes or
ive some time on the ground each week.”

 

C. A. FILES of St.
Louis, Missouri, has
announced that he will
deed to the city Rest
Haven, his sixty-eight acre country estate in St.
Louis County as a children's playground. Mr.
Files will reserve for his own use during his
lifetime about seven acres on which his house
stands.

Another Gift
Announced

 

“I \VANT the game
refuge to be a place
where trees can grow
unmolested by chop-
pers, and trout and birds and other animal life
can exist unmolested. by hunters and fishermen—
a place where some of the things God made may
be seen by those. w ho love them as I love them
and who may find in them the peace of mind and
body that I have found."

Thus Senator (ieorge P. McLean outlined the
purpose of the 2,000 acre game refuge which he
left in his will to Simhury and (iranhy, Connec-
ticut. The trustees are directed to permit the pub-
lic to use and enjoy the property as a natural
park for recreation, “subject to such restrictions

255

From a Lover
of Nature

 

256 WORLD AT PLA Y

and provisions as said trustees may in their dis-
cretion make for the preservation and protection
of said property and the wild life thereon.” The
trustees are further authorized to expend not
more than $6,000 from the income of the estate
each year for the maintenance of the game refuge
and for the purchase of additional lands if

advisable.

A Drive for Play Equipment——- Cleveland,
Ohio, through the Associated Charities, the May-
or’s Committee on Recreation and the Women’s
Civic Committee, this summer conducted a drive
for used play equipment, such as balls, bats,
quoits, tennis rackets and swimming suits. These
were turned over to city playgrounds, parks and
baseball diamonds to meet the increased demand
brought about by the unemployment situation.

City Beautification—The use of relief labor
in Steubenville, Ohio, has been directed with
great effect toward the beautification 0f recrea-
tion property. The building of stone work, walls
and rustic fences and the planting of trees and
shrubbery have changed the entire appearance
of the areas. Much has also been done to beautify
the city in general as the Board of Recreation
has cooperated with the Women’s Club in a gen-
eral tree planting project.

Drama on Oakland Playgrounds—There are
playground dramatic clubs in Oakland, Cali-
fornia, whose members may select from a list of
activities including story playing, puppetry, pan-
tomimes, plays, dance dramas and pageants.
Plays are produced before the playground group
or, as a real treat, in the garden theatre at Moss-
wood Playground. In a quiet corner of the play-
ground set in an old-fashioned garden, brilliant
with many hued flowers and shaded by majestic
trees, is an outdoor stage fully equipped for pro-
ducing plays. On warm afternoons hundreds of
children and parents gather there from all parts
of the city. In addition to the performances in
the garden theatre, plays are given for smaller
audiences by the Vagabond Theatre Players. The
Vagabond Theatre is a portmanteau stage set up
on a truck, which also carries costumes, proper-
ties and stage equipment. The theatre makes reg-
ular tours of playgrounds during the summer
vacation and visits neighborhood centers within
walking distance of several playgrounds.

The Play Movement in Lynn, Massachu-
setts—Lynn’s playgrounds are being operated on

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

the same basis this summer as they were in 1931
An appropriation of $18,000 has been made fo
the recreation program and $30,000 in additio
has been made available for work on the go]
course. Through unemployment relief funds u
to I 50 additional men have been supplied f0
work on the golf course, who are also puttin
play areas into good condition.

Mush Ball in Pittsburgh—“Mush ball” 0
playground baseball has become a major recrea
tion in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where the Di
vision of Recreation is providing the majority o
the fields. There are shop, factory, ofhce an
fraternal leagues registered among the long ros
ter of affiliated groups, and some games ar
played before as many as 3,500 fans.

A Sketch Club in Peace Dale, Rhode Islan
—The Neighborhood Guild of Peace Dale, Rhod
Island, is promoting a sketch club open to an
one interested in doing out-of-door sketchin
Members supply their own materials and no fee
are charged. Of the members who have thus fa
joined, one is a mill hand, a man who has alway_
wanted to sketch and paint and who is now wor <
ing in oils and showing real promise. The clas
which is open to both children and adults, wi
be held once a week during the entire summer.

Suggested Legislation for Minnesota—T .
preliminary report of the Committee on Legisl
tion, Nineteenth Annual Convention of t
League of Minnesota Municipalities, held in Jun
recommended legislation to permit cities, village
counties and school districts to support recre
tional activities. At the present time, it wa
pointed out, villages do not have power to 0
ganize and finance playgrounds and recreation
activities, nor do cities except as specific pr
visions have been made in their charters. Educ
tional departments are not allowed to finan
playgrounds during the summer months.

' A Picture Contest—T he Minnehikers .
Minneapolis, Minnesota, as one of their activiti
conducted a photography contest open to all me
bers of the club. The requirements were that t
pictures be restricted to club activities showi
photographs of nature, of people and of unus
happenings. Pictures should not have been tak
prior to January I and not later than Septem
I, 1932. The pictures submitted must become t
property of the club. No person was allowed
enter more than five each month. Local photo
raphers served as judges.

   
   

A Recreation Program for Adults.—One of
the most interesting features of the recreation
program in Janesville, Wisconsin, a city of
216,000 inhabitants, is the municipality owned
little theater which has a membership of more
than 1,000. Not all of the members participate
in plays; over three—fourths of them belong to
special groups—play reading, stage manage-
ment, screen painting, stage lighting and stage
music. An annual fee of $1.00 entitles mem-
bers to attend all performances during the play
season which lasts from October to May. Dur-
ing this period 10 one-act plays and three ma-
jor productions are staged.

Another feature of the adult recreation pro-
gram is the provision by the city of a large
protection for the players against bad weather.
The courts will be lighted at night.

These improvements of the old auto camp
site are helping to convert it into an inten-
sively active recreational center. It is hoped
that later from twenty to thirty tennis courts

will be built on this site.
When the Lions Club Took a Hand—The

Lions Club of Torrington, Connecticut, joined
hands with the Recreation Commission last
fall in constructing a bathing beach at Besse
Pond. Members of the club worked from 3
o’clock until 1:30 spreading sand along the
beach. The sand was donated by a member
of the club; the use of trucks was given by
:a number of local companies.

Gypsy Jaunts
( C ontinmd from page 228)

challenge of making a comfortable camp, of
providing for the inner woman in a satisfying
and not too laborious manner, they will know the
adventUre of facing a new trail with each new
day and they will come home with reminiscences
to last a lifetime.

' We believe that Mrs. Bloomer would look with
approval upon these jaunting gypsies, though she
might be surprised at how far beyond her hard-
fought-for-bloomers the girls have gone in the
way of costume. Shorts, riding breeches and
very abbreviated bloomers might make her won-
der what she had started, but no doubt she would
recognize them as important only in signifying
the modern girls’ freedom and opportunity to
.venture of their own initiative into a vastly in-
teresting world, a privilege denied their elder
sisters of the wasp waists and trailing rufiles.

 

GYPSY JAUNTS 257

 

4.21;..- .-

. . . Playgron

can’t afford dust
this your . . . . .

 

 

Both economy and health
urge this protection!

PROTECTION of children against the dirt and
dangers of dust! Protection of the playing
surfaces against disintegration which is the cause of
dust! Both kinds of protection are assured with the

use of Solvay Calcium Chloride on gravel and earth
surfaces.

Playgrounds everywhere find Solvay treatment the
ideal way to end the dust nuisance. Clean and white,
it does not track or stain. It is easy to apply and
economical to use. And in addition to keeping down

dust, it actually kills harmful germs that live and
breed in dust.

Let Solvay Calcium Chloride help you lower the cost
of keeping surfaces in good condition. Write today

for booklet 1159 and full information.
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkaliea end Chemical Products Alamtfacturod by
The Solvay Process Company
New York

SOLVAY @

TIADK MARK RIG. 0. S. PAT. 0".

Calcium Chloride

Flake 77% - 80%

 

258 DANCING ON A RESERVOIR

  
    
    
  
 

  

SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather. Metal. Celluloid. Wood Carving. Batik.
Rope and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts
for the Educational. “Recreational gand30ccupational

~Fields. n 6 ° .. a ' :,_  3 .w 0
,HAN‘DICRAFt MANUAL
. 300 Projects. 400 Illbstratjpns ~_  h

Price $1.00 Paper, $2.00 Cloth
Sent on Approval Price List on Request”

\

esmceerr SPECIALTIES
‘ "tesTe'awaas‘a‘aro

COLORADO SPRINGSJZOLIRM

 
 

American Universities and colleges

Second Edition Revised and Enlarged

Edited by ~
JOHN HENRY MACCRACKEN

For the American Council on Education

A single volume giving facts, ngures and data
concerning the 521 accredited institutions of
higher education in the United States.

$4.00

THE WILLIAMS &. WILKINS COMPANY

Publishers of Scientific Books and Periodicals
Baltimore, U. S. A.

  

Your PLAYGROUND.
will be INVITIN6—

if you' use American Playground
equipment. Send for our catalog
which showsyou _an endless variety
of safe and dependable play devices.

For years the “American” line has

been accepted by playground au-
thorities as the leading one. Their

judgment is sound—you can de-
pend upon that and their choice has ‘

r , . ._ ’
been justifiable. , 3’ 3 - i .
 ” I. ' I ‘ ’ 

5"I
'

P American”. Playground Device 00.
 i", z  .AN'DERSO'N, INDIANAg’ ", F 

   

    
  
 
 
   
 
  
   

  
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

A Safety Program in Reading—Majors,
captains and lieutenants, proudly displaying
their safety arm bands, officered the safety
patrols organized last summer on the Reading,
Pennsylvania, playgrounds by the Department
of Public Playgrounds and Recreation, with
the help of the Berks County Safety Council.
Regular meetings were held each week, the
time for the meetings being set by the patrol
itself. During the meetings the children played
safety and traffic games, sang safety songs,
made safety posters and discussed safety les-
sons prepared for the club members. The
meetings were greatly enjoyed by the chil-
dren. The success of the organization was
demonstrated by a decrease in the reduction of

accidents both on the playground and on the
way to and from it.

Rock Island’s Drama Tournament—An in-
teresting fact about the drama tournament

held in April in Rock Island, Illinois, is that
Dr. Stuart Adler, sponsor of the National Rec-
reation Association in that city, wrote the play
which was produced by the winning group.

Surfacing Playground Areas

(Continued from page 242)

When the priming has thoroughly dried, all the loo 2
dust is swept from the surface, and Texaco macada
binder, which has been heated to about 200° F., is sprea
over the entire surface of the base. As this is sprea
hot, it is covered with a coating of sawdust. (The saw
dust should pass through a %” sieve). When the sur
face has been completely covered with a coating 0
sawdust, a water roller (200 to‘ 300 pounds) is used to
roll the sawdust into the macadam binder.

Rolling continues until the sawdust turns black. Then
more sawdust is added, and the same procedure is re-
peated until the sawdust has absorbed all of the macadam
binder that it is possible to absorb. The sawdust cushion
surface is then completed.

On this sawdust cushion surface, the lines are painted
for basketball, volleyball, or tennis, a coating of shellac

having previously been applied where the lines are to be
painted. White zone marking paint is used.

(To be continued in September issue)

 

A Cosmopolitan Orchestra

(Continued from page 243)
we do?’ And your answer is, ‘Let’s start an
orchestra.’ I say that’s good!”
“Ottawa, Kansas, a town of 9,700, fifty—eight
miles south of Kansas City has a civic orchestra
of sixty pieces, two high school orchestras total—

PARK RECREATION AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES 259

   
 
  
 
   

mg 145 members, two school string quartets and
.wo trios, and a school band of ninety members,
'.: civic boys’ band, a band of Santa Fe car shop
mployes, an orchestra in every church, a wom-
n’s club orchestra, and a number of informal
l. ome and neighborhood playing groups. There
s also the college choral society of eighty mem-
ers besides three church choirs. The Board of
l ducation owns $3,000 worth of instruments and
l he city $4,000. The civic orchestra is supported
y a small tax.” (From Music in. American Life

y A. D. Zanzig).
1 —By W. W. Pangbzmz.

 

I
l Park Recreation Areas
l (Continued from page 245)

0,000 additional acres. Information was secured
’ith reference to zoological parks in I 38 cities.
Of the 44,431 persons reported employed for
‘ ark service nearly one-half are year-round work-
rs. In cities from 50,000 to 500,000 one worker
is employed on the average for each eight or nine
acres of parks. Only sixty cities reported park

positions filled by civil service examinations.

l

 

    

q-I‘s'

LOU DEN GIANT \X/l-IIRL

ENTERTAINS 5O CHILDREN AT ONCE
I CEHE most economical of all playground

devices. because of its great capacity;
safe and delightful entertainment, at lowest
cost per child. First in pOpularity, too, be-
cause children love the merry-go-round idea
above every other in playground activity.

Louden is the most complete of all playground
lines; write for catalog and NEW LOW PRICES

J. E. PORTER CORPORfATlON
Ila BROADWAY OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

': ‘ LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

 

 

MAThe constant prog-
ress Aof‘a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City."

AAAHere you will find

news Of thellatest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future
activities.

SOUTHEIQ~

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

'Baker &MIvy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

260 LAND GIFTS FOR RECREATIONAL USE

Read Special Offer!

CODEBALL

ON THE GREEN
The game with a kick in it

Show this ad to a responsible Sport-
ing Goods Dealer in your locality and
tell him to write us at once for 1n-
formation as to how we will enable
him to donate a Codeball on the
Green set to you gratis in behalf of
your community.

Regulation course equipment consisting of
14 durable, high-class Metallic Bowls, 14

poles and pennants, 28 Kickoffs. Oiiicial
Rules, and one'dozen Oiiicial Balls.

Sanction and adopted by {the A. A. U.,
as National Sports, 1929.

Detailed information and course
charts cheerfully sent on request.

Bodeball Company of America

11 So. LaSalle Street Chicago, Ill.

 

 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
     
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
  

General Progress

The growth of the county park movement dur
ing the last five years is revealed by the fact th
whereas in 1925 and 1926 only thirty-one counti
reported one or more parks, in 1930 seventy-ii
counties reported one or more such areas. T
total acreage in county parks exceeds 108,000 an
more than one-third of it was reported acquir
during the last five year period. $22,000,000 we
spent for county park purposes in 1930 alone an
$57, 500,000 have been spent for county park Ian
and improvements during the five years, 1926
1930. Facilities most frequently found in coun
parks are picnic places, tennis courts, baseb
diamonds, children’s playgrounds, bathing beach
and athletic fields.

One of the most valuable sections of the repo
is a discussion of the total park provision in t
large population centers of the United State
With the growing emphasis upon the planning a
metropolitan districts and regions it is becomin
increasingly important that any consideration 0
parks in large cities include a study of other are
serving the people of the region. Therefore, th
careful analysis of the state, county, regional an
municipal areas serving the large cities of th
country is a timely contribution.

 

Land Gifts

(Continued from page 254)

public park. It is reported that $100,000 ..
been spent on this property claimed to be the f1 ‘
est hammock remaining in Florida and visited b
the leading botanists of the country. Rex Beac
is the president of the non-profit company ownin
and managing this property which may later n
deeded to the county.

According to a report issued in 1928 by t
National Conference on State Parks, gifts hav
also been a very important factor in the develo
ment of state park systems. Out of a total 0
351 parks listed in this report, 170, or approxi
mately one-half, were acquired either entirely I
partly through gift. The acreage of 130 of the
donated parks totals 61,859.69 and the total ar
of forty which were only partially donated
175,172.73 acres. The outstanding example a
a state park system acquired largely through gif
is that in Michigan where only five of the sixt

eight areas were either partly 0r entirely pu
chased.

OUR DECISION IS 261

One of the most recent gifts of this type is a
picturesque tract of approximately 2,000 acres
comprising rugged hills on both sides of the
N augatuck River near Beacon Falls, recently pre-
sented by the Whittemore family of Naugatuck
to the State of Connecticut through its Park and
Forest Commission. This gift includes High
Rock, an area of unusual scenic beauty. Near the
close of the last century this section was one of
the most popular picnic places in the region and
for many years a pleasure park was maintained
at this point by the railroad company. Although
the area has been in disuse for many years, old
trails still lead to the summit of High Rock, a

precipitous cliff commanding a splendid view of
the Naugatuck Valley. The summit is reached

by an easy climb along Spruce Brook through a
densely shaded ravine bordered by interesting rock
formation.

The late Harris Whittemore, who served for
many years as a member of the State Park and
Forest Commission and who also was an active
member of the Board of Directors of the National
Recreation Association, began acquiring this land
soon after the war with the intention of present-
' .ing it to the State. The Splendid donation by the
Whittemore family, who share his active interest
in the park and recreation movement, serves as
a memorial to his forethought and public spirit.
In making the gift the donors have specified that
it is to be used by the State for park and forest
purposes.

The Commission has designated the area for
the present as the High Rock State Forest and
considerable work has already been done by the
Forestry Department in safeguarding the tract
from fire. In addition to the tire lookout tower
on the hill east of the river which is maintained
by the Department, thirty miles of fire lines have
been cleaned out. The portions most suited for
recreation will be developed as a park and offer
splendid opportunities for picnicking, hiking and
nature study.

It is impossible to measure or to estimate the
inspiration, refreshment, recreation and joy of
living which have resulted from and which, with
the passing years, will increasingly result from
these splendid “gifts eternal.”

 

>>>

Our Decision Is

<<<

ANY inquiries come in for interpretation
M and advice on problems concerning rules
of games and athletics. These are often of
general interest and value. RECREATION plans to
conduct a column of such inquiries and answers.
Send in your problems of interpretation of rules;
protests on decisions; inquiries on organization of
leagues and tournaments. Those having general
interest will be used in this column. All inquiries
will receive a direct reply if a self-addressed
stamped envelope is enclosed.

Playground Baseball

1.  Runners on first and third and two are
out. Man on first attempts to steal second
and catcher throws ball to second baseman
and the runner is trapped between first and
second and is tagged out, while this play is
taking place the runner on third has scored
before the runner was put out. Does the run
count?

A. The run counts, providing the runner
had touched home base before the base run-
ner was trapped and tagged between bases.

2. Q. Can a man score fromthird or second on
an over-throw at second? Rule 21. section
4. does not include second. so we do not

know.

A. A man can score or attempt to score on
over-throw of second base. Even if a man
were on first base, on an over-throw of sec-
and he is entitled to go all the way around
if he can make it.

3. Q. A put-out has been made at first base and
the ball is tossed back to the pitcher. The
batter is not at the plate yet and the pitcher
steps out of the box and bounces the ball to
himself. Man Standing on third steals home.
Is the base runner out. or does the run count?
A. He is not out unless they tag him. If they
do not tag him the umpire should send him
back to third base, as he has no legal right
to go home.

4. Q. The batter hits ground ball that hrst hits
in foul territory and then rolls into fair ter-

ritory (between hrsr and home or home and
third). Is it a fair ball?

A. Yes. It is a fair ball according to the
specific wording of the rule.

262 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

WHATEVER

your H O B BY
you will jind 1' in K

EVERYDAY

cience and

ON ALL
' NEWSSTANDS

H
q
n
I
4
U
Iv
.q
5
n
n
n
,_
1
U
I
n
.1
:-
.

_ 4-Color Cover
0 . ' Over 450 Illustrations
 3 96 Pages-9x12 Inches

 

MR. HUGO GERNSBACK'S latest magazine contains the

most important and recent developments in Science.
Mechanics. Radio, Televisibn, Aviation and Chemistry.
For everyone, regardless of age. EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND
MECHANICS will be found to be useful and instructive.
It is thoroughly illustrated with scientific news events
from all parts of the world. and helpful to thousands of
people who wish to advance their scientinc knowledge.

Many excellent pages for students. instructors and for the
home workshop man who finds pleasure in building

things: experiments in electricity, chemistry and formulas
of all kinds. '

Just to mention a few departments:

AUTOMOTIVE HOUSEHOLD HINTS WOODWORKING
AVIATION METAL WORKING WRINKLES
BIOLOGY NEW DEVICES RECIPES Ag",
BOOK REVIEWS PATENT ADVICE FORMULAS
CHEMISTRY PHOTOGRAPHY
ELECTRICITY RADIO SHOP KINKS

' ENGINEERING -TELEVISION and others

SPEC'AL 8 MONTHS FOR $ | -°°

Mail Coupon Today! '

EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS

. 100 T Park Place. New York. N. Y.

I enclose herewith One Dollar for whi‘ch you are to enter my

subscription to EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS for the
next Eight Months.

vvv vvvvvv vvvvv vvvv

. Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interes: to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

McCalls, June 1932.
Everybody Needs a Hobby, by Frederick B. Robins

The Epworth Highway, June 1932.
An Outdoor Picnic.

The Neighborhood, December 1931.
Entirely devoted to a bibliography of books, artic
and reports written by settlement workers a

others dealing with settlements and their int
ests published between 1920-1931.

The Municipality (League of Wisconsin Municipalitie
June 1932.

Saveland Park, by Alfred L. Boerner.
Park Development to Provide Employment, r
Arthur R. Boerner.

The American City, June 1932.

Cleveland Encourages Picnics in Its Parks.

Pistol, Rifle and Trapshooting Facilities in Uni
COunty Park System.

Hunting and Fishing as Municipal Recreation
Dallas, Texas.

Parks and Recreation, June 1932.
Parks and the Future, by Horace M. Al-bright.
The Artemas Ward Playground at Marlborou
Mass, by Robert Washburn Beal.
Doyle Field—A Gift Playground, by Herbert

Kellaway.

Notes on Track and Field Facilities, by V. K. Bro
Life Guard Protection at Bathing Beaches.

Popular H omecraft, July-August 1932.
Toys and Novelties, by Bess Livings.

The Parents’ Magazine, July 1932.
How Camps Have Changed, by Paul D. Hasbrou
Playthings in Review, by Janet M. Knoff.

The Scout Executive, June 1932.
Realizing Character Objectives in the Boy Sc

Summer Camp, by Joseph S. Fleming.
Handicraft Periods—How Handled, by Victor
Allen.

PAMPHLETS

Public and Private Recreational Opportunities in Ma
hattan

City Recreation Committee of the Welfare Coun
April 1932.

Municipal Recreation in Oakland, Recreation Departme
Oakland, Calif. '

Modern Swimming Pools .
A pamphlet describing the swimming pools de51
and built by Wesley Bintz, Lansing, Mich.

Pan-Paciiic Junior Pentathlon, Junior Pentathlon, Ti
Building, Los Angeles, Calif.
A manual of instructions.

Arbor Day—I ts Purpose and Observance, Farmers’ Bul
tin No. 1492, U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Wind Cave National Park, South Dakota, National Pa
Service, U. S. Department of the Interior.

Acadia National Park, "Maine. National Park Servi
U. S. Department of the Interior.

 

     
  
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  

l

   

.Twenty Thousand Years in Sing Sing

1: Lewis E. Lawes. Ray Long & Richard R. Smith, Inc.,
New York. $3.00.

. HUMAN document indeed, this story of Warden
Lawes' experiences at Sing Sing—a volume which
he has dedicated to “those tens of thousands of my for-
er wards who have justified my faith in human nature."
11 an intimate account of life within prison walls Mr.
Lawes tells the histories of many prisoners and in the
last three chapters, which are of especial interest to rec-
eation workers, analyzes some of the causes of crime
nd delinquency. To wholesome recreation he accords an
'mportant place as a preventive force. “Educators and
ocial workers know from actual experience that juvenile
elinquency gives way before supervised playgrounds
and well organized boys’ and kindred organizations.
Some of our larger centers of population report that
wherever new playgrounds are opened juvenile delin-
quency in that neighborhood drOps perceptibly. And yet
reliable authority has it that three out of every five
children in our greatest cities are without adequate op-
portunity for wholesome play.” Speaking of the need
for recreation within such an institution as Sing Sing,
r. Lawes says: “It is apparent to every earnest prison
dministrator that clean, wholesome sports within the
ongestion of the prison will accomplish more than or-
dinary institutional inhibitions in maintaining discipline
nd a contented spirit." '

The Recreation Kit, 30.

Home Recreation. Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohr-
bough. Church Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

HE latest publication of the Church Recreation Service
deals with home recreation. Eleven programs are sug-
ested and directions given for twenty-six games. In
addition, there are a number of reports, notes and gen-
eral suggestions.

Colonial Gardens

The Landscape Architecture of George Washington's
ime. Prepared by the American Society of Landscape
' rchitects. Issued by United States George WashingtOn
Bicentennial Commission, Washington, D. C.

HIS is one of the many publications of the George
Washington Bicentennial Commission issued to aid
he thousands of communities which through November,
1932, will be conducting programs in honor of the birth
of George Washington. The book tells a fascinating
tory of gardens in Colonial days in Mount Vernon and
other Colonial places of the South, in Charleston and
he 'far South, in Philadelphia, old New York, and
Salem and the New England colonies. A closing chapter
on the Colonial Gardens Today tells the results of re-
earch into the gardens of the past to our present day
ardens. Beautiful photographs make the book one of
he most attractive published by the CommissiOn.

New Books on Recreation

Planning for Residential Districts

The President’s Conference on Home Building and

Home Ownership. Commerce Building, Washington,
D. C. $1.15.

N EAU’I‘Y is a commercial asset to the home builder
because it is a spiritual necessity to the home
owner," says President Hoover in the introduction to
this volume. the first of a series of publications to ap-
pear from the President's Conference on Home Building
and Home Ownership. And this thought of beauty in
home surroundings is emphasized throughout the report,
particularly in a chapter on Landscape Planning and
Planting. Other chapters have to do with City Planning
and Zoning, Subdivision Layout, Utilities for Houses,
the Relation of Size of Lots to Cost of Utilities and
Street Improvements in Low Priced Housing Develop-
ments, and Housing in Unincorporated Areas Adjacent
to Cities. Much is said throughout the book about the
importance of providing open Spaces and play areas.

Tennis Organized

By Dorothy Davies Randle and Marjorie Hillas. A. S.
Barnes & Company, New York. $1.60.

THIS book will have especial value because of its em-

phasis on class organization and group instruction.
Many illustrations and diagrams add to the value of the
book for the instructor. There are helpful suggestions
for tournaments, for the summer camp tennis program.
and for organization for schools and colleges.

I Camp Fire Helps

Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York. $.40.
CEREMONIES around the camp fire. stunts, games, stor-

ies and songs comprise this booklet, the latest edition
of the Service Library of the Boy Scouts. There is much
here for the recreation worker.

The Golden Flute

Selected by Alice Hubbard and Adeline Babbitt. The
John Day Company, New York. $3.00.

HERE is a fascinating anthology of poetry for younger

children from nursery age to boys and girls ten
years old. The anthology has been tested by long use
with many children and is based upon close observation
of their interests and activities. A valuable feature. is a

special index in which the poems are listed according to
the child’s interest and activity.

Official Baseball Guide-4932

Spalding's Athletic Library. No. 100x. $.33.

ALL the information which baseball players and fans
can desire is to be found in the new Guide. Revised
rules with eXplanatory notes form an important section.

263

264 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Standard for the Vacation Church School.

The International Council of Religious. Education,
203 North Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illmms. $.15.

The purpose of this publication is to enable workers
in vacation church schools to visualize their own needs
and to challenge them to better work. With this in mind
a scoring system has been arranged which is described
in the booklet and in the scoring manual which ac-
companies it.

U-Make Poster Flags of the U. S. A.

The K & T Company, Baltimore, Maryland. $.10
each; $.98 per dozen.

This booklet, which will have an appeal for children.
contains the story of the American flag and presents out-
lines for coloring eight of the most important flags in
the development of our national emblem.

Covered-Wagon Centennial and Ox-Team Days.

Published for the Oregon Trail Memorial Associa-

tion by the World 'Book Company, Yonkers, New
York. $2.00.

Many playground and recreation workers have made
extensive use of the Covered-Wagon Centennial material.
Cities and towns which are along the Oregon Trail will
want for many years to come to be remembering this
most significant part of our national history. Ezra
Meeker’s own story of the privations of the early
migration across the continent is exceedingly interesting
reading. In searching for material for story telling uses,
it is well to remember these tales of our own country.

Books for Home Reading (For High Schools).

Prepared by Committee on Home Reading—Max J.
Herzberg and Stella S. Center, co-chairmen. The
National Council of Teachers of English, 211 West
68th Street, Chicago, Illinois. $.20.

In this attractive booklet the literature recommended
has been classified under fiction, non-fiction, plays and
poems. Special recommendations have been made for
first year students. Illustrations, many of them colored,
add to the attractiveness of the book.

Municipal Golf Courses in the United States.

Issued by the Public Links Section, United States
Golf Association, 110 East 42nd Street, New York.

The latest publication of the Public Links Section of
the United States Golf Association shows that in 1931,
210 cities and county park commissions reported a total
of 323 public golf courses. Statistical information is
given regarding each of the courses, including year of
Opening, managing authority, data regarding the number
of holes and length of course, fee charged, number of

rounds played, cost of operating, and other facts regard-
1ng the budget.

Problem Manual in Physical Education
Measurements.

By Frederick W. Cozens, Ph.D. W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia. $2.25.

Here is a manual of laboratory or exercise material—
a book on tests and measurements giving the student
practical problems to solve, supplementary material on
which to practise, and a further clarification of the units
of physical education measurements. These problems of
exercise have been proven in the classroom as valuable
aids in training students in the proper handling of sta-
tistical data. The exercise material has been prepared to

accompany Bovardoand Cozens “Tests and Measurements
1n Physwal Education.”

Can You Answer It?

Compiled by Nita Fikes. Oxford University Press,
New York. $.50.

Children and many adults, too, will enjoy this delight-
fully illustrated book of riddles.

   
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
 
  

Tumbling: For Students and Teachers.

By Samuel F. Harby, M.A. W. B. Saunders Co
pany, Philadelphia. $2.00.

Literature on tumbling is rapidly increasing. In t
particular book the purpose has been to provide
thorough analysis and adequate description sufficient
enable performers to learn or instructors to teach tu
bling stunts. The book is based on the author’s fift
years of experience, and no stunts are described whi
he has not himself performed. The teaching method a
techniques have been tried with good results at seve
public schools in Seattle and at the University
Washington.

Small-Town Stuff.

By Albert Blumenthal. The University of Chica
Press, Chicago, Illinois. $4.00.

What goes on in a small town? Mr. Blumenthal, w
lived in Mineville while his study was in progress,
veals in his interesting document the vices, virtues a
surprising complexities of the small town, its physi
and historical setting, routine of living, social activit'
and the intimacy of relationships, politics, gossip a
scandal. “It is a study,” says E. W. Burgess in his pr
ace, “of a disappearing of at least a changing culture. It
therefore as timely and important to accumulate a
preserve data upon community life in America as up
Austalian aborigines or Indian tribes.”

Clear Track Ahead!

By Henry B. Lent. The Macmillan Company, N
York. $2.00.

The many questions which small boys ask about trai
are answered in this book, which in an interesting, pop
lar style gives much information about railroads for t
benefit of young readers.

Ohicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEv, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
RODERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HowaD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MR3. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAH BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.

Mas. ARTHUR G. CUHHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVIsoN, Locust Valley, L. 1.. N. Y.
Mas. THonAs A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York. N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AusTIN E. GEIITITHs, Seattle, Wash.

WILLIAM HALE HARKNEss, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MR3. CHARLEs V. HchOx, Michigan City, Ind.
MR3. FRANCIS DELAcr HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIIIY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRs. CHARLIE D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LoonIs, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass. .
OTTO T. MALLEIY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MR3. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.

MIss ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla, Calif.

FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MR3. JAHEs W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDEach M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT,_Concord, N. H.

MR3. WILLIAH H. WOODIN, J R., Plainfield, N. J.

