MncMm-ny Co“ch Library

Playgrounds
Build for the New Era

 
 

HE production of things in great abundance, in the era just ended, was
thought essential to happiness.-

So we rushed and hurried in our manufacture of things. \Ve pro-
duced in such abundance that we cared not for waste. We were swept along
in a great carnival of wasting things easily produced.

Now we see that “enduring satisfactions” are not mainly dependent upon
having many things—in great quantity.

We are turned back upon ourselves—whether our capital resources be
great or small; we are turned back on what is within us—upon our own skills,
our own capac1t1es, upon what we can do rather than upon what we have or
possess.

The playground is primarily a place for developing power to do. Swim-
ming, skating, running, playing games, acting, singing, making kites, model
airplanes, observing nature, are not dependent on costly external materials but
rather upon power to do, upon individual skill.

Helping the individual child to do well and happily what he most wants to
do now and will want to do later—is preeminently the task of the playground.

So in this changing from the old industrial era of over-production of
things to the new era in which there is to be thought for the consumer—for
living, for culture—we turn more than before to the playgrounds and the play
leaders.

We think, what is it that men, women, children most like to do when they
are free to do what they please, what activity gives the most “enduring satis-
faction,” what is the minimum of facilities needed, but even more, what is the
practice under leadership that will give a degree of mastery, of achievement,
that will make possible the maximum of satisfaction?

We turn to the playground as a means of fitting children through their
own happy activities to acquire habits of “living” every day, every week, every
year, habits that not only give skill and self-control for a future always ahead.
but which right in the present at very low cost give within themselves power
for life eternal, vital living, for keeping young.

Mastery over living may in considerable measure be independent of what
one possesses outside oneself—if one has been led from childhood to develop
enough within. The deveIOpment of activity, skills, power, vitality within is the
preeminent task of the one who leads children in their play.

More and more in the new era play leaders and parents will work together
in doing just this—making to children the greatest possxble gift—the gift of the
power to have the center of one’s own doing, one’s own lwmg, and one’s control

within and not without oneself.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER.

mas/a.

Now That April’s Here!

‘3.

c
U

a- ,3. Q. /-’J

H. Armstrong Roberts

Pets! Having a pet at his own seems a part proper care through annual pet shows. Now comes
at the birthright at every child, and playgrounds the season when plans For summer programs are
are doing much to Foster the love at children For under way. You are, at course,- remembering the

animals and their interest In them and their children's Friends!

2

 

Popular Playground

Before you make your plans for the

coming summer, take a tour with us

to some of America's playgrounds.

vERv playground program is built on activr-

E ties which have proved successful some-

where! And so a brief survey of a few of

the activities which in one city or another helped

make last summer’s playgrounds interesting may

point the way to added successes during the com-
ing summer.

Making Facilities Known

First of all there is the problem of making
facilities known to the public and at the present
time of depression, when many more people are
turning to the municipal recreation program, this
is important. Last year the Board of Park Com—
missioners of Seattle, Washington, met the prob-
lem by carrying on a Playground Week Cam-
paign at the beginning of the season to acquaint
the public with'the extensive facilities available.
The radio was widely used, while motor car

,— ,-_.w.-——-- - .

 

There was no single activity more popular on last
summer’s playgrounds than handcraft in all its forms.

placards urged parents to send their chil-
dren to playgrounds and bathing beaches
where leadership was provided. There
was much publicity in the local news-
paper, the Post Intelligencer publishing
a complete list of the playtields with their
locations.

Use your local press to make known the names
and addresses of the play centers. Place posters
in store windows and in all the places where the
unemployed congregate. “Through every possible
channel broadcast invitations to come to the play-
grounds?

A Traveling Theatre That's Different

A popular feature of community nights in
Salem, Massachusetts, last summer was eleven
plays sponsored in each of the neighborhoods of
the playgrounds maintained by the Bureau of
Park Commissioners. The plays were presented
on a specially designed traveling stage, a very
unique structure, built on an obsolete horse—drawn
hook and ladder truck. The scenery consists of
one stationary set painted in oil upon unbleached
cotton and nailed firmly to the stage. The design
is serviceable for both interiors and exteriors,

3

4 POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS

being finished 1n dark green
and neutral. The portable
stage is 28’ long, 14’ wide
and 14’ high. There are
side and rear entrances,
dressing rooms, proscenium
and footlights.

On each of the commu-
nity nights the program was
the same with singing
games by the playground
children in a circle on the
grass, a performance by the
percussion ensemble with
victrola accompaniment giv-
en on the stage, a Punch
and Judy show, using pup-
pets made by the play-
ground children, a special
play for each ground. and
local talent in dance or vo-
cal numbers. Audiences for
these performances were
large and responsive and all
the features won great
favor.

A special class in puppet making was conducted
throughout the summer to instruct children in
the art of puppetry. Plasterline was used to mold
the heads of such characters as Black Sambo,
Punch and Judy, and Old Lady Witch. Plaster
was poured over these molds and allowed to
harden. The plaster was then removed and an
impression left in these plaster molds. The chil—
dren then dressed the characters and conducted
Punch and Judy shows on their playgrounds.

Puppet Shows That Go About

Traveling theatres, such as Salem’s popular
portable stage, have delighted large audiences in
a number of cities. And now comes the “peram-
bulating” puppet show, an innovation last summer
in Philadelphia where it traveled through the
streets of crowded tenement districts. A portable
collapsible stage, 6 feet high, was used. \Vith its
green velvet curtains, gold fringe, props and
stage scenery, it was a theatre in miniature. The
actors were an assortment of pretty and amusing
dolls made for the occasion with hollow arms and
heads for the fingers of the puppet players.
Clever manipulation by the fingers of the puppet-
eers, who were hidden behind the screen, gave
very life-like movements and gestures. Complete

 

You may never have another chance to

go back-stage and see how it's done!

plays were acted out on
this miniature stage. It was
a “talkie” as well, for the
manipulators b e h i n d the
screen talked as the pup-
pets acted. The shows were
operated by the Philadel-
phia Playgrounds Associa-
tion in cooperation with the
Inter-State Dairy Council
who furnished the training
to those who conducted the
sho ws and shared with
the Playgrounds Associa-
tion the expense of present—
ing them.

A Children's Folk Theatre

A folk theatre for chil-
dren is one of the unique
developments on the public
playgrounds of Cleveland
where there are thirty—,two
nationality g r o u p 5. And
from what “homely” mater-
ial do the children construct
their house of dreams!

The passerby walking through a Bohemian
neighborhood reads the announcement posted at
the playground that on Friday night “The Rose
Bud,” a play, will be given at seven o’clock. Re—
turning promptly at seven, he finds a rope encir-
cling the supports of the traveling rings and ex-
tending around the volley ball standards. Around
this roped off area are several hundred adults and

children.

Then comes the play!

A child in costume passes around the inside of
the roped area and shows a placard giving the
name of the play, and possibly the names of the
characters and the children who will play them.
The area beneath the traveling rings is the stage.
It is crude, but the children of this playground
have decided it is the most adaptable and desirable
place for the stage. A larger area in front of the
stage is roped off so that the spectators will not
crowd the stage.

A herald in costume announces the first scene
and states that this play is one that has been devel-
oped from a folk story taken from Czechoslova-
kian folk lore. The entire play has been made up
from the story by the actors. Few lines have been

 

POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS

memorized but the action is accompanied by
dialogue strangely like the usual language of the
children. The stage props are the playground
benches. Practically every other item needed in
the action of the play is borrowed for the occa-
sion from the homes of the children. The play
is costumed, as the Recreation Department has
scores of costumes for both boys and girls.

The herald announces the scenes and the play
progresses to the intense interest of the neigh-
borhood. \V hen the last scene has been played,
the herald or instructor will perhaps announce
that next Friday another play will be given and
that the children who want to be in it are to ap-
pear at the storytelling hours throughout the
week when the stories of another country will be
told and the story will be selected for playing at
the next Friday night presentation.

This scene took place last summer on all of
the city playgrounds in Cleveland. Eight foreign
countries were selected for study, and scores of
folk tales of each country were told and drama-
tized. For next season’s theatre stories will be
selected from the folk lore of Italy, Russia, China,
Roumania, Greece, Scotland, Denmark, and the
early Colonial period of the United States.

Practically every form of dramatic expression
is used during this program of storytelling and
dramatics. The puppet show, pantomime, shad-
owgraph pantomime, and operetta as well as the
usual dramatic form are brought into play.

Some of the Stories Dramatiscd.

HOLLAND

The Wonder \Vheat of the Lady Sand.
The Beard that Grew and Grew.

The Hodge Podge Hold Fast.

Kling Klang Poor Dokkum.

The Willow Man and Sunday’s Child.
The Most Magnificent Cook of All.

The Leak in the Dike.

SWEDEN

Canutc Whistle-\Vink.
The Gift of the Sea King.
Star Eye.

The Sausage.

The Stone Statue.

J APAN.

My Lord Bag of Rice.
The Farmer and the Badger.

The Mirror of Matsuyamo.
The Youth \Vho Gathered Jewels.
Aunt \Vind and Little Pomegranate.

Ul

SPAIN

The Clover.

The Golden Pitcher.

The Witch of Amooto.

The Orange Princess.

The \Veeping Willow and the Cypress.

H UNGARY

The Magic Stone.

The Stone Princess.
The Arch of Strachena.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

The Rose Bud.

The Shepherd and the Dragon.
The Golden Godmother.

The Wood Maidens.

The Three Golden Hairs.

GERMANY

The Rhinegold.

Otto of the Silver Hand.
The Raven.

The Nose Tree.

Hansel and Gretel.

The Gallant Tailor.

A m ERICA

The Squire’s Bride.
Johnny Apple Seed.

Alice in Wonderland.
Margaret of New Orleans.
The Gulls of Salt Lake.
The Pine Tree Shillings.
An Axe to Grind.

Reading on the Playground

Not only puppet shows but libraries as well
traveled about last summer. In Newark, N. J.,
the public library sent out a truck to five of the
playgrounds maintained by the Board of Educa-
tion. The truck contained books of interest to
children, reaching each playground once a week
at a specified time. Books were also SUpplied at
two other playgrounds at which extension librar-
ies were permanently located. Here an assistant
from the library was present once a week to dis-

. tribute the books.

The playgrounds of Little Rock, Ark., also had
a traveling library which visited all the play-
grounds once a week. The librarian took with
her several handgrips full of posters advertising
the libraries. Books were checked out and in at
each play center and the children’s wants were
carefully noted, and the books they wished
brought back the following week. Two reading
centers in suburban districts were also visited by
the traveling library each week. During the sum-
mer playground season over 6000 books were
checked out.

6 POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS

An lnteresting Approach to Handcraft

Handcraft was made a particularly fascinating
activity in Monroe, Michigan, last summer when
the Board of Education added a shop course to
the playground program. On entering the shop
the boys found opportunities for making such
articles as boats, windmills, gliders, wheels, letter
holders, bicycle pinwheels and scooters. And in
addition to suggested constructions there were
provided a number of pieces of equipment for
manipulation. These included electric bells and
buzzers, dry cell lights, telephones, magnetic coils
and motors. Boys were allowed to enter and leave
the shop at will and no effort was made to control
their activity other than by visual suggestion. This
resulted in some small boys pounding nails for
the fun of pounding, and in the construction of
doll furniture from the wood clippings provided.
The number in each group ranged from twenty
to fifty, with an average of thirty at work at
one time. . i

A handcraft project in Norwalk, Connecticut,
was a model playground and doll house contest.
Each playground decided which project it would
choose and worked for a month on the construc-
tion of its model. Points were given on the fol—
lowing basis: originality (possible) 25 points;
furnishings (possible) 50 points; neatness (pos-
sible) 25 points.

Little Journeys to Other Lands

“Where do you come from,
Mr. Gay?

‘From the land of play,
from the land of play.’

And where can that be,
Mr. Gay?

‘Faraway, faraway.’ ”

And so last summer
the children of the mu-
nicipal playgrounds of
Cleveland took a_ trip
to see how the children of
other lands play. Handcraft,
sandcraft, toy orchestras,
singing games, folk dances,
games, storytelling and dramatics were correlated
in this travel program which comprised sugges-
tions from the folk lore, music, arts and skills of
a number of countries. A glimpse at the handcraft
program will show how the theme was developed:

First the children went to Holland by the
simple device of constructing windmills, tulip
gardens, ships of wood and corks, people of wood

 

"Once upon a time," begins the story-

teller, and you can hear a pin drop.

and paper, wooden dolls and beds for them of
wooden shoes.

Japan came next, and the children were able
to conjure up a vivid picture of the happy island
by making quaint little paperhouses and lanterns,
paper mats and fans, lacquered chests, flying fish,
kites, sandals, parasols, dolls and rickshaws.
Hungary they pictured through the thatched vil-
lages which they constructed, the wayside shrines,
and the costumes and embroideries which they
made.

The visit to Spain was fascinating, for there
were card castles to be made, combs of pierced
paper, brightly painted shawls, flower ornaments
for the hair, clappers and castanets. And what
would be more exciting for the boys than the
toreador game! Germany, the land of toys, pro-
vided unlimited opportunity for interesting ad-
ventures in handcraft, while Sweden was visioned
in the making of ancient Viking ships, wooden
dolls and figures dressed in national costumes,

shields and cut paper for lace designs and wall
decorations.

Flowers everywhere—in gardens, embroidered
on vests, painted on little white houses, on cradles,
gift and shrine boxes of starched paper with

painted glass tops—this was the Czechoslovakia
which the Children of Cleveland created.

And in a trip of exploration of their own
country, the children
made the acquaintance
of the Indian through
constructing wigwams,
bows and arrows, cra—
dles, ceremonial masks
and good luck charms,
and by donning beads
and feathers.

The results of the
introduction of Old
World culture into the play-
ground program found its
fullest expression in. the
final playground festival in
which almost 3,000 children participated and in
story form gave a demonstration of the music,
games, dances, storytelling and dramatics devel-

opened during the season. Over 30,000 peoplewi‘

nessed the demonstration.

Storytelling
A suggestion for storytelling comes from the

Department of Parks and Recreation, Altoona,

POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS 7

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Piedmont, California.

Pennsylvania, which is ex-
perimenting with an inter-
esting plan for primary
and intermediate groups.

\Vith the primary group,
the name of the character, property or scenery
which the child represents was printed on a pla-
card and pinned or tied on the child. All that was
required for the intermediate group was one or
two pieces of clothing to represent the character,
such as a shawl and bonnet for an old lady or a
cap or apron for a cook.

A storyteller was developed for the group, a
person being chosen who had a pleasing manner
and voice. A worker was in charge of the selec-
tion of stories who listened in once or twice a
week and gave any necessary suggestions. Cos-
tuming the storyteller added to the interest. It
was also found helpful for her to take with her
to the various playgrounds objects andr~articles
relating to the story which she exhibited as she
came to the part of the story to which they re»
lated. This plan was worked out in Altoona par-
ticularly in relation to the nature study program,
stories being told which were associated with na-
ture activities.

Playground Music

Maywood, Illinois, has a junior band sponsored
by the Recreation Board and composed, with
few exceptions, of boys who have had no previous
instrumental training. The leadership, sweaters,
caps, one bass horn and bass drum are furnished
by the Recreation Board. Class members pur-
chase their own trousers and instruments. There
are two rehearsals a week for the entire band.
Each year the graduating eighth grade class leaves

The sand box on a Saturday afternoon, with a
leader who can tell stories and who is an
expert at tying knots and doing other Fascin-
ating things -- what more would a boy ask for?

a number of vacancies in
the band. The present di—
rector, Mr. W’esley Shep-
ard, has a beginning class
of eighty, many of whom

joined the band after a few months’ training.

The Playground Commission of Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, has a twelve-piece band which meets once
a week for rehearsals. Their repertoire includes
all the numbers used for the community singing
which is conducted by the Commission. Thus the
problem of providing musical accompaniment for
the community sings has been solved.

\Vith one exception all the centers conducted
by the Peoria, Illinois, Recreation Commission
have a children’s orchestra with an enrollment of
from ten to twenty-five in each class. All of the
groups practise the same numbers, and at the
close of the season a combined orchestra from all
the centers give a concert.

All Day Hikes

At Cleveland Heights, Ohio, there were special
activities which made the playground program
particularly interesting last summer. Every
\Vednesday at nine o’clock boy and girl hikers,
well fortified with boxes of lunch, met in the
front of the Board of Education building for a
day’s outing from which they returned at 4:30.
Each trip was in the nature of an adventure, and
there were nature hunts, surprise programs, pea-
nut hunts, hare and hound races, treasure hunts,
animal study trips, and visits to camp. Every
hike was under the leadership of two adults. Girls
from ten to twelve years of age enjoyed two-day
camp outings, paying a small fee to cover ex-

8 POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS

penses. Airplane clubs and regularly scheduled
toy-making classes were popular features of the
program.

A Playground Flower Show

A new playground project in Dalton, Massa-
chusetts, last summer was a fiower show. The
older boys decided to gather from the woods all
of the different native ferns and water plants
available and to place an exhibit in the show to be
known as the “Pine Grove Playground Entry.”
The idea developed rapidly and soon there were
inany eager little gardeners at work. A tub was
sunk into the ground, rocks and moss placed
around it and cattails planted for a background.
Ferns in their native soil covered the sides and
front. Pond lilies were placed in the water, while
toadstools and mushrooms arranged among the
rocks with a big green frog on one of the pond
lilies, gave a natural appearance. A hose was
buried and a revolving spray placed in the back
gave the appearance of a fountain sprinkling the
ferns and lilies. Scores of boys and girls stood
in front of this exhibit by the hour.

Special Events on the Playground

The great majority of cities are
now following the plan of building
up their playground programs and
sustaining interest in them by the

introduction of w e e k 1 y special
events.

In Sheboygan, Wisconsin, last
summer, a pet show was held dur-
ing the first week of the play-
ground season. The second week was climaxed by
a Fourth of July celebration, and at the same time
a sand box contest was held for the younger
children, the winner from each of the playgrounds
taking part in the play festival held at the close
of the season. A lantern procession, and a parade
of decorated _doll buggies, coaster wagons and
other vehicles were the featured events during
the third week of the season. Each of the play-
grounds held a track and field meet for the fourth
week, while the next week was featured with a
huge playground demonstration held on each of
the playgrounds. During the sixth week push-
mobile, coaster wagon and kitty car races were
held for the boys, jackstone and rope jumping

The success of a playground
program, a number of recrea-
tion executives have pointed
out, depends on careful plan-
ning. While it is desirable,
they say, to plan a program
to go through the summer, it
must be flexible, so that the
initiative of the individual
worker will not be stifled.

._|
'_
contests for the girls, and a kite flying contest for‘
both boys and girls. The seventh week was the .
week of climaxes with the Third Annual Play

Festival scheduled for August 8th. During the '
final week of the playground program a huge pic-

nic was held in which all of the children and many I
of their parents took part. ‘

A Balloon Day was one of the interesting
events of the playground season in Somerville,
Massachusetts. Break-the-balloon, balloon relay,
kick—the-balloon, and balloon hoist were among
the popular events.

Community Week was observed August 10th
to 15th by the Community Recreation Associa-
tion of Dalton, Massachusetts. The community
night program, the most important event of the
playground season, was held on August I 3th,
when 1,500 people celebrated the event held at
Pine Grove Park. Each of the three playgrounds
contributed to the program which included selec-
tions by the drum corps, a marionett’e show, a

comedy sketch, and a Maypole dance and other
features.

The Square Dance Returns

Have you tried square dances in

your recreation program? First
' held as an experiment by the

Houston, Texas, Recreation De-

partment', callers, fiddlers and

friends of the dance appeared in

such large number that it was

found desirable to hold the dances

regularly in the city auditorium.

As many as two thousand people
would attend. The fiddlers soon became the
“Piney Woods String Orchestra.” The callers,
each reviving his own peculiar call, added variety
and color to the dance. And now the Houston
Square Dance Association has been organized to
preserve the square dance in its original charm.

A typical dance program for one evening, from
8 PM. to midnight follows:

1. Grand March.

2. Square Dance “Four Hands Round.”

3. Square Dance “Right Hands Cross.”

4. Jiggers’ Contest.

5. Fiddlers’ Contest.

6. Rye Waltz.

(Continued on page 42)

 

Courtesy Girl Scouts.

The making of primitive musical instruments
proves a fascinating activity at some camps.

The Girl Scout Comping Program

Adventure, discovery, the Feeling oi
being at home in the out-oi-doors;
all are essential to camp programs.

11E Girl Scout camping program is an impor-
Ttant part of the movement. The organization

feels that every girl should be at home in the
out-of-doors where she can become familiar with
every growing thing. discover the magic of sun-
rise on a mountain top, learn to build a fire and
cook a meal even in the rain, experience the ad-
venture of blazing a new trail and enjoy the peace
of deep sleep under the stars. The organization
believes that these experiences not only enrich
girl’s lives and build healthy bodies for them, but
develop courage, resourcefulness, initiative, love
of wholesome fun and the give and take of real
companionship—qua]ities that will stand them in

By EMELIA THOORSELL

Secretary, Camp Advisory Stall
Girl Scouts

good stead in whatever walks of life they enter
in the future.

As the camping program is carried out in over
five hundred camps in widely different localities.
it is necessarily flexible. Girl Scout camps re-
semble each other in that they comply with the
minimum standards (explained in detail in “Mini-
mum Standards for Girl Scout Camps”) for com-
munity hacking. general program, quality and
number of leaders, camp site, health and sanita-
tion, waterfront regulations, equipment. fund re
quiremrnts and business records.

A primary requirement in the. general C3111!)
program is the use of the patrol system, the key-
stone of (.irl Scouting. .\ patrol is made up of

9

10 THE GIRL SCOUT CAMPING PROGRAM

six or eight girls, one of whom is chosen leader.
A number of patrols form a troop. The girl’
leaders of the patrols, with the troop captain and
her lieutenants, form the Court of Honor, the
governing body of the troop. In this way girls
govern themselves, guided by unobst‘rusive lead—
ership.

The patrol system lends itself readily to camp
life. At Camp Edith Macy, the Girl Scout
national training camp at Briarcliff Manor, Ne .v
York, girls live in troop—sized units, which in
turn have been divided into smaller groups for
patrol living. The girls christen these encamp-
ments with such provocative names as Singing
Pines, Gypsy Rest, Top of the World and Trail’s
End. Each of these camp families does it own
work and runs its own affairs, uniting with other
groups scattered over the hillside for occasional
community meals in the big camp dining room
or on the hillside, for land and water sports and
the Council Ring, Scouts’ Own and other group
activities. The organization considers the small
unit system of camping an ideal one and plans
that eventually all Girl Scout camps will be con—
ducted on this basis.

Apart from the above mentioned similarities,
no two Girl Scout camps in the whole country
are really alike. They are as diversified and pic-
turesque as the localities in which they are set up.
In California girls sleep under the giant redwoods
in bed rolls on the ground; in Alabama they use
the natural houses made by the cavernous rocks.
Three-sided Adirondack shacks are popular in the
virgin timber covered hills of New Mexico and
bamboo shelters in Porto Rico. At Camp Edith‘
Macy there are model tents with wooden floors
for sleeping accommodations.

While the camping program is flexible, in all
Girl Scouts there are five main lines of activities
which are developed in so far as environment and
leadership permit. These are: campcraft, nature
study, aquatics, games, and camp “aesthetics.”

Campcraft

Campcraft includes tramping and trailing, out-
door cooking, pioneering, primitive camping and
gypsy trips.

The tenderfoot in camp begins by learning to
make fuzz sticks for tinder, to whittle toasters
and broilers from green sticks, and to become
prohcient in blanket rolling. A morning spent in
pioneering projects will show girls making im—
provements about their camp. One group may be

carrying stones to make dishwater drain; anothei
will be busily digging a cache in the ground or'
building one in a stream, with a third group lash-
ing branches into a sturdy camp washstand or a
bathing suit rack. At some camps they con—
struct complete open air kitchens, consisting of
stone stoves, wooden tables and benches, caches
and “bean-holes.” Many cooking experiments
suitable to use in permanent camps or on the
trail, are tried out. Fried eggs sizzle on tin can
stoves and pots of ham and sweet potatoes cook
slowly in “bean-holes” dug in the ground. Girls
learn to mix dough in a bag, wind it on a peeled 1
stick, and toast it over the fire. Many camps cook
whole lambs and sides of beef in Hawaiian imu
style, wrapped in wet grape leaves and placed in
a fiery pit in the ground. Luncheon, supper and
all-day hikes into nearby woods put the acquired
campcraft into actual practice.

After the preliminary training has been gone
through, the main camp is used as a woods base
and groups are taken on overnight hikes with ex-
perienced leaders. Every girl does her share of
the work. She may pitch tents, collect fire wood,
make a latrine, carry water or do the cooking.
She gradually becomes thoroughly at home in the
out-of—doors. When girls have mastered the tech—
nique of the overnight trip, they are ready for
the primitive camp where groups go off from the
main base, set up their own camp, and remain
for a week‘ or ten days.

There is no limit to the kinds of adventure
an experienced camper may have. Troops plan
their routes ahead and take gypsy trips in cov-
ered wagons, in trucks or on foot. They stop for
a safe dip in a lake, eXplore green lanes, and make
and break camp when the spirit moves them.
Long canoe trips are taken from the leaders’ camp
in Minnesota. The annual pack trip taken on
horseback, with a chuck wagon brought along to
carry provisions and baggage, which goes out
from Camp Mary White, Roswell, New Mexico,
covers one hundred and seventy-five miles of un-
eXplored mountain trails.

Nature Study

The Girl Scout method of teaching nature is
through first-hand observation, through games
and related handicraft. Information is not mem-
orized from books. The whole forest is open for
research and reference. Books are turned to to
clear up a doubt or to determine a correct name.
Girls are encouraged to take steps to study the

THE GIRL SCOUT CAMPING PROGRAM ll

plant and animal life in their own vicinities. At
the Roswell, New Mexico camp, girls have plant-
ed a special turnip patch to encourage the deer.
Once the animals’ timidity is overcome, there is
a fine chance for close observation. California
girls have assembled a zoo typical of their state's
insect life. The specimens—a five-inch scorpion.
a six-inch tarantula and a centipede with forty
legs—were collected on desert hikes and kept a
short time for observation.

Nature Projects include trees, birds,
| flowers. fresh and salt water life, insects
and stars. Girls learn to identify trees by
leaves and needles, bark
and twigs and to recog-
nize trees by their
stumps Troops vie with
each other to do the
most “ f o r e s t good
turns,” which may
in e a n labeling poison
ivy, destroying a cater-
pillar’s nest, neatly cut-
ting a broken branch,
removing a tree fungus
or planting the seed of
a desirable plant. Girls
plant tree seeds, have
tree nurseries and take
an active part in refor—
estation. In Salt Lake
City, Girl Scouts have
adopted a novel tree
planting project. Tree
seeds are taken along
whenever the girls go
hiking, and planted in
appropriate places. Nature diaries illustrated by
tree sketches, photographs and carbon prints,
record tree observations made during camp ses-
sions. The interest aroused in trees while in
camp often leads girls into reforestation move-
ments in their own communities.

Courtesy Girl Scouts.

Every camp has its bird houses and feeding
trays. Bird Logs are kept that include all kinds
of fact gathered about birds, from information
about which parent brings the food, to the effect
of moulting on song. At one Girl Scout camp :1
nature counsellor has introduced unusual and ori-
ginal methods of teaching bird lore. On early
morning bird walks girls grow familiar enough
with bird songs to enable them to record the songs
in a bird choir book, each bar of music being ac-

Open air kitchens are construction
proiects full of absorbing interest.

 

companied by a drawing of the feathered singer.
Girls have built a Bird Cafeteria, too. Under the
portrait of each bird is a list of his favorite foods.
Food trays hanging underneath are kept well sup—
plied with his fancies. At the same camp girls
have made an outdoor museum in which all the
native animals are represented by cardboard
images, made by the girls themselves.

Troops made rock gardens to beautify spots
near their camps or
build a flower sanc-
tuary devoted to wild
flowers which are

r a pi dly disappearing
because of excessive
picking. \V hen it is
time the seeds are gath-
ered from field and
roadside and planted in
the sanctuary the fol-
lowing year. The seeds
of these flowers are
gathered and planted,
and so the flock increas-
es every year.

At one camp there is
a special stand with a
vase on it. Each day a
different wild flower is
put in the vase and the
picture of a different
bird hung b e side it.
Any Girl Scout may try
to find out the names
of the specimens. She
puts her answer on a
slip of paper and drops
it in a box. Tags are given to the one who cor-
rectly guesses all the Howers or all the birds. Like
acquiring the dictionary habit, the girls remember
distinctly what they search out for themselves.

\Vhen camps are close to ponds, lakes or any
body of water, pond acquariums are made in
order to study fresh water life. The girls con-
struct the aquariums of stones and netting, with
separate compartments for turtles and fish, and
a rock for the creatures to sun themselves on.
\Vater plants and ferns make them homelike. At
camps close to the ocean, salt water life is studied
in tidal pools. Accurate and fascinating obser-
vations are made in this manner.

Delightful games are played in the form of
Nature Quests. In one of these Quests compass

12

points were painted On top of a post. A sign
nearby read‘ “Go 24 paces S. S. W. and find a
cluster of fiowers that are pale with shame be-
cause they steal their food.” When the nature
student had found the fiowers, she came to the
next direction which read “\Vhat tree, twenty
paces N. E., is named for a fish?” Girls study
the map of the skies and have evening star gazing
parties. An experienced camper can find her way
by the sun or stars.

Aquatics and Games

Organized games with
their usual quota of spec-
tators are not included
in the Girl Scout camp.-
ing program. Stimulating
games that make every
girl a participator are in
favor. Canoeing, boating
and swimming are very
popular in all e a m p s
with waterfronts. An
American Red C r o s 5
Senior Life Saver who
is an experienced canoe-
ist and boatman is always
in charge. Girls who at—
tain certain ranks are eli-
gible for river trips with
perhaps two days of pad-
dling and a night spent
on the sand dunes by the
ocean. The whole camp
joins in water games and
pageants.

A wide green field with
colorful targets where archers try the Co-
lumbia round is a familiar sight in a Girl Scout
camp. Some troops make their own equipment
as a handicraft project. Horseback riding is be-
ing introduced into camps, there is an occasional
mounted troop, where girls learn to be real eques-
triennes. Lassoing and rope-spinning are prac-
ticed in a western camp.

Woods games are very popular everywhere.
Girls thoroughly enjoy tramping and trailing, na-
ture games, treasure hunts, map trailing, observa-
tion, stalking and tracking and cross country
games like Run Sheep Run and Point to Point.

.‘\

 

I”-

Hi...

V,
* i, ‘1 as:
l. g.‘
..:.: e

,3“

   

- 1*! .-

*h.

Courtesy Girl Scouts.

Camp “Aesthetics”

Folk songs, sea chanties and old fashioned mel-
odies are sung in Girl Scout camps in preference

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

\
as
. 9

‘1

And how delicious are the products of
such "close-to-nature" cooking methods!

    
 
     
    

“I 
.n‘a '“ 3'

THE GIRL SCOUT CAMPING PROGRAM

to jazz and popular music. Like the minstrels of
old girls take pride in- preserving the original
spirit and words of the songs and try to pass
them on intact. There is an increasing interest
in primitive orchestras consisting of pipes of pan
and tom toms, the instruments being made by the
girls themselves. Music of this type combines
well with camp dramatics.

Plots are drawn from local history, ancient
folk lore or from pioneer tales recounted by the
girls as heard from their grandfathers’ lips, and
pageants and plays built around them. A natural
theatre with a level stretch of green for the stage
and trees for backing and wings is preferred to
an artificial constructed one. Colorful scenes are
enacted around camp fires also and gay folk danc-
es danced on the green. Puppet shows for which
the girls make and operate the puppets, have
proved very successful.

Handicraft, known as “Hobbies” in some
camps, has always been a most popular activity.
Blue-printing, sketching,
photography, m a k i n g
plaster casts of animal
tracks, hammock making
or carving records of
s u m m e r activities on
walking sticks are some
of the favorites. Lately
the organization has been
making available to the
field very interesting pro-
j ects in craft work from
natural materials, such
as making pine needle
brooms, o s i e r baskets,
drinking cups, from
burls, and baskets of grape leaves to carry water
cress from the brook. Native crafts are studied
wherever they are to be found. Girls in New
England have a fine chance to learn to make
hooked rugs. In New Mexico Indians instruct
troops in pottery making. Girl Scouts in the
Shenandoah mountains learn basketry and _be-
come skillful at weaving on looms over a hun-
dred years old, under the tutelage of old moun-
taineer men and women.

NOTE: A list of material published by the National
Recreation Association of special interest to camp direc-
tors has been prepared. It may be secured on request.
Send for a copy.

1
I
l
l

By ETHEL BOWERS

National Recreation Association

VERYWHERE we go we hear the cry: “Give the
boys a chance.” Fraternal orders, service
clubs and similar groups are concerned,

rightly so, with “keeping the boys off the streets";
“turning the gang into a club”; “making citizens
of our boys,” and “training the men of tomorrow.”

\Vhat about the girls of today, the mothers
of tomorrow?

No great army of after-dinner speakers seems
to be shouting: “Give the girls a chance !” Girls,
the supposition is, are sheltered, protected; are
never seen loitering on the street; are never
bored with school or home routine; never are
found using their leisure unwisely; are able to do
their own planning. Theirs is an
ideal condition, so we are led to
believe, and they do not need
the help and guidance which
boys require in their play hours.

Volunteers and employed
leaders, however, who work
with girls of all ages in organi-
zations concerned with their
leisure time or welfare, know
the fallacies of such reasoning;
realize that girls need help as
much, if not more than boys,
because they do not have the

Ethel Bowers, who is the Katherine
F. Barker Memorial Field Secretary
on Athletics and Recreation For
Women and Girls, of the National
Recreation Association, for more
than three years has been visiting
cities with recreation departments
studying the work for women and
girls, advising on local problems and with a trained, sympathetic,
helping in the training of workers.
Her summing up of the situation
will be of interest to recreation
workers and officials for whom the
program of activities and its admin-
istration present serious problems.

 

Courtesy Brooklyn Children's Museum.

Betty, of preschool age, needs a small play-
ground near her home. Have you given her- one?

We introduce to you five girls. Every
city has hundreds like them. Is your
recreation program meeting their needs?

natural leaders who are caring for the boys.
So we must give the girl a chance.
What girls need help in solving their leisure
time problems? Let me introduce you to five

girls whom we all know.

Betty, the Baby
Betty is the little sister of the family, some-

where between three and nine years of age. She
is usually an active, healthy, little girl, curious,
energetic, influenced by bright
colors, rhythms and people and
is very imaginative.

In some cities there is a small
playground near her home, not
more than a quarter of a mile
away, with special play area
just for her age group, and

young woman leader, in charge.
Here she learns ga m e s and
group dances, makes things out
of bright colored materials dur-
ing the handcraft hour, takes

13

l4 GIVING THE GIRL A CHANCE

part in the rhythm
band and sings;
listens to wonder—
ful stories, plays
on the apparatus
and in the sand
and acts in chil—
dren’s dramatics
and pageants.

Unfortunately in
many cities Betty
has no place to
play except in the
street, because the
playground is too
far away, or if
there is a nearby
area, her mother
will not allow her
to go b e c a u s 
there isn’t a wom—
an 1 e a d e r in
charge, or the big
boys play ball so
that there is no safe place for little girls to play.
In some other cities, there are neighborhood
playgrounds and women workers, but they are
untrained in recreation leadership, so that Betty
plays active games all through the hot days and
at the end of the summer we {ind her tired and
underweight, because the leader did not provide
a balanced program of active and quiet games,
handcraft, music, storytelling, and sand play and
dramatics. .

Betty needs a backyard play space, and also a
. nearby safe playground open all year, supervised
by a well—trained woman recreation leader, who
conducts a balanced program suited to this age

group.

 

Peggy, growing fast, must
have many hours of out-
door play in safe places.

Peggy, the Pre-Adolescent

Peggy is about nine to thirteen years old, and
is very much like Betty, the baby, for she, too
needs to play, outdoors if possible, many hours
a day.

Some cities are providing neighborhood play—
grounds in the summer and after school play
throughout the rest of the year and encourage
the parents to build a backyard playground for
Peggy.

Many cities have only summer playgrounds,
and for the other nine or ten months of the year
Peggy is without play leadership. On some play-

grounds there are no women workers, to see that
Peggy has a safe place to play and the right type
of activities. The man leader on the playground
is too busy with boys’ athletics to pay attention to
little girls, unless they are very good athletes and
can run and jump ‘_‘like a boy.” And it is sad to
say there are still cities which are neither pro-
viding play areas in congested neighborhoods, nor
summer playgrounds with leadership-for Peggy
and her sisters. It’s no fun and not safe for little
girls to play on a vacant lot, school ground or
playground if a woman leader isn’t there.

Peggy, like Betty, needs a backyard play space,
also a nearby safe playground Open all year round
and supervised by a well-trained woman recrea-
tion leader who conducts a balanced program for
this age group.

Alice, the Adolescent

Alice is going through a diflicult period, physi-
cally and emotionally. She feels very grown up,
when she is with little girls, yet she is only a girl
herself about thirteen to sixteen years old.

Some few cities make a special effort to pro-
vide suitable activities, such as the right games,
music, dancing, handcraft, dramatics and social ‘
recreation all year round for Alice under sympa-
thetic trained women leaders.

There’s nothing Alice likes better than camp-
ing. Does your city give her an opportunity?

 

Courtesy Girl Scouts Incorporated.

 

GIVING THE GIRL A CHANCE 15

In many cities Alice is neglected for nine or
ten months during the year for there are no after
school play activities for her—and often she does
not feel at home on the summer playground, for
the woman leader isn’t trained to reach the tem-
peramental adolescent girl, or doesn’t want to
bother. Some play leaders still feel that a play-
ground position is a summer vacation with pay.
. It is hard work to lead adolescent girls in recrea-
tion and many untrained women leaders give up
*in despair. Others provide a strenuous athletic
program only, which doesn’t interest Alice during
the hot weather or at times when she doesn’t feel
physically fit. If Alice lives in a com-
munity where there are no playgrounds
or where only men are employed, she 
will not enjoy the playground unless i
she is a “star athlete type” (and most
girls are not), so she may spend most
of her time at the movies
or reading unwholesome
magazines.

Alice needs a well-bal-
anced year round recrea-
tion program of selected
games, handcraft, music,
dramatic, and social ac-
tivities, under a sympa- \
thetic, mature and ex-
perienced woman work-
er who is really interest-
ed in the adolescent girl
and her problems. If
Alice cannot belong to
Girl Reserves, Camp
Fire Girls, or Girl
Scouts, there should be
other girls’ clubs for her
0 join. Most important
of all, she must be pro-
tected from poorly se-
lected athletic activities
under coaches who over-
emphasize the value of individual stardom.

 ° ‘ in
‘6. F .v
{‘t m

Beatrice, the Business Girl
He, the Industrial Girl

These two need the same general types of rec-
reation but must be approached and managed
differently. Beatrice is from seventeen to twenty-
hve or thirty years old, has completed high school
and business school or college and now is em-
ployed in a good store, an office, or teaches school.

  
   
  
   
   
   

Courtesy Los Angeles County.

. It is natural for them to want a good time
after the day's work at the office or factory.

She usually lives in a nice home or boards with
a private family. Ida, on the other hand, is
younger, from fourteen to twenty-five years, has
left school as soon as she could, and now works
in a factory, 5 and 10 cent store or as a maid in
a private home or hotel. Usually she lives at home
or with relatives or with the people for whom
she works, but in most cases, her living place
lacks the beauty, comfort and spaciousness she
desires.

Both Beatrice and Ida want to have a good time
after work is done, but in separate groups, and
often in different ways. For example Beatrice en-
joys gym classes, games and sports for
the fun and the physical benefit she re-
ceives, and she takes part in the finer
forms of music, dramatics, or hand-
craft activities because they appeal to
her love of the beautiful. Ida doesn’t
want to sit still and make
things in a handcraft
group, because she has to
do such things all day.
Her w o r k is monoto-
nous, therefore she must
have very exciting recre-
ation. She wants stren-
nous athletics, jazzy mu-
sic, snappy dramatics or
musical comedies, thrill-
ing parties, not for the
benefit she will receive,
but because she will
show off to good advant-
age before an audience
of the opposite sex.

Both Beatrice and Ida
want social recreation,
dances and parties, pic-
nics and clubs, but they
must be in separate
groups, because Beatrice
and her friends and Ida
and her admirers will not mix. The first group
can afford to pay for better orchestras, better
facilities, while Ida’s crowd need well conducted
social activities near at home and at little or no
expense.

Ida, (and sometimes Beatrice if she is “man-
crazy”) if left without any recreational oppor-
tunities, will spend all her play time in one of
three ways, movies, cheap dances, often at road-
houses, and automobiling with the subsequent"

16 GIVING THE GIRL A CHANCE

Martha, the Matron I 1

parking and petting. (A study of delinquent girls

in Oregon showed a direct relationship between
delinquency and lack of girls’ clubs and suitable

recreation opportunities) .

In some cities Beatrice and Ida can go to their
neighborhood school building one or more even—
ings a week during the winter or their nearby
playground in the summer, and enjoy athletics,
handcraft, music, dramatics, and social recreation,
conducted just‘ for their own groups, under ex-
pert women leaders at little or no cost.

In most cities, unfortunately Beatrice and Ida
are not made welcome on the summer playground
and in the winter there is no place for their activi—
ties and no women leaders to conduct a program.
Worst of all, in a few places some coach, un-
trained in recreation and physical education, has
encouraged Ida, and sometimes
Beatrice (if she is athletically
minded) to enter a basketball,
baseball, track or swimming
group which he is coaching to
be a winning team in city, dis-
trict, state or national contests
so that he may have the honor
of being the coach of national
or Olympic women stars.

Beatrice and Ida need recre—
ation leadership more than any
other group. They are most ne—
glected and hardest to reach,
and most liable to use their free
time unwisely. They need a
well-balanced year round recre-
ation p r o g r a m of athletics,
dancing, music, dramatics and
occasional handcraft classes,
and many club and social activi-
ties, conducted by expert wom-
en leaders, in their own neigh-
borhoods, and at little or no
cost. There should be an abun-
dance of activities for young
men and women together, well
supervised, of course. Mosf .
important of all, they need to be protected (if
they are “star” athletic material) from the ambi-
tious coach, who would induce them to play on
all—star basketball, baseball, track or swimming
teams, for his own glorification and possible
financial reward, irrespective of the physical and
moral harm the girls may receive.

 

Do older women want to play? Plan
a picnic ‘or a play day and find out!

Usually Martha, who is over twenty-five years I
old, has had a grammar school and perhaps some '

high school education (before the days of physi—

cal education departments and playgrounds), then ‘

she married young and raised her children and
now, for the first time in her life she has time
to play.

In a few cities Martha and her friends and '
neighbors go several evenings a week to the near- L

est school building during the winter for gym
classes, volley ball, handcraft classes, chorus or
ukulele, dramatics and social clubs or parties. In
the summer they attend their neighborhood play—
ground participating in volley ball, kick ball, cro—
quet and many other games, sewing or making
Christmas gifts, helping with playground parties,
picnics, community nights and circus or pageants.

Unfortunately in many cities,
Martha is entirely neglected by
the recreation department, be-
cause the city fathers think she
doesn’t need organized leisure
time activities. Therefore, no
women leaders are employed
for older women’s activities, no
facilites are Opened, and Mar-
tha is made to feel that the sum-
mer playground is for children
only, and neighborhood school
buildings are for boys’ athletics,
and that she should be content
to play with her children or

work is done.

Because Martha wants to
play so very much, yet has
never learned, she needs expert
women leaders who are sympa—
thetic and tactful. Because she
has little money, and feels em-
barrassed in strange groups she‘
needs well selected recreational
activities including gymnastics
and games in her own neigh-

borhood, with her own friends,
at little or no cost.

Objectives in Activities for Girls and Women

To promote and improve recreation for girls
and women four factors are necessary: Public
Education—Better Organization—Trained Lead-
ership—Adequate Programs.

play bridge when and if her

GIVINGTHE GIRL A CHANCE

Public Education
Many civic recreation commissions, boards,
committees or councils might well include a
larger number of women representatives to in-
sure more attention to the special needs of women
and girls.

\Vith increased public education will come a
greater recognition of the values to the commu-
nity of adequate recreation programs, and more
money will be made available for this purpose.
Some cities have recognized this special need of
women and girls for adequate recreation and have
supplied a budget for the work, a trained woman
dxecutive, sufficient women workers and ample

use of neighborhood facilities. Other cities have

not provided all or even a part of these necessi—
ties, with the result that in some communities
there is practically nothing for girls and women
I although a good program forwmgn-‘r'and boys‘éis
being conducted. » I” '

Public education is a means of developing a
more friendly understanding and closer coopera-
tion among the various local girls’ work agencies,
especially recreation departments, schools, Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Girl Reserves, Y. W.
C. A.’s, churches, settlement houses, national and
fraternal groups.

Better Organization

A year round recreation program, not merely
a summer playground program, is essential. Some
city fathers think that girls need to play only
during the summer, not during the other ten
months.

There is a need in many communities for a
more equal distribution of the budget, time, use
of facilities and leadership, so that girls and
women will have opportunities more nearly on a
par with those for men and boys. In some cities
the boys and men have almost entire use of the
facilities and receive a greater portion of the
budget and the time of the leaders than do the
girls and women. Since there are as many, and
usually more, women than men citizens, and since
their need for leadership is often greater, they
should have a larger share of the recreation
budget than they now have in many cities.

A department in the recreation body for women
-and girls, with a well trained, capable, energetic
and sympathetic woman in charge to administer
the program and to serve as assistant to the rec-
reation director, has been found in a number
i of cities to be the ideal system. Many cities do

3 a“ 37
it???
. if.
not have a year round woman executive. Therge-

fore the girls and women do not receive adequate
leadership. Recreation executives are for the
most part so busy with problems of budget, con-
struction and the operation of the program that
generally they have little time and energy left for
the problems of girls and women.

More neighborhod centers are needed. There
are so many reasons why women and girls cannot
participate in distant or downtown activities—
(expense, time, effort, clothes and transportation
problems are considerations)—that nearby activi-
ties become a real necessity. Only a few cities
are now meeting this need adequately.

In many instances it has been found desirable
to organize a Girls’ Recreation Council in order
to secure the support of local women and make
the program permanent. The purpose of the for-
mation of this council ismainly to educate the
public to the need of larger‘budgets, more trained
workers, broader pr0grams and-{well selected and
conducted activities. Where'- such councils have
been organized they are proving a great asset.

Trained Leadership

An important objective is the securing of
women leaders for girls’ activities and their train-
ing for the profession of recreational leadership.

A well trained professionally-minded woman
worker on each summer playground—one who
will work to meet the needs of girls and women
of all ages and not one who wants a vacation with
pay—is essential.

Every city needs trained women leaders for
year round activities for girls and women. In
many communities girls and women do not have
suitable activities because the budget does not
provide for trained women leaders, none are
available or because the women now employed
are not recreationally-minded or trained.

Adequate Programs

A program for girls and women of all ages,
not merely for children up to adolescent age,
should be the aim. There still persists the belief
among some that employed girls and women do
not need organized recreation. This attitude,
however, is changing.

Programs for girls and women of all ages
should not be one-sided. Some communities have
an athletic program only, which meets the needs
of certain types of girls and women but neglects

(Continued on page 43)

 

A Gift to San Francisco

to be preserved in San

Francisco t h r o u g h the
generosity of Mrs. Sigmund
Stern, president of the Recrea-
tion Commission and honorary
member of the National Recre-
ation Association, who has presented to the city
a large portion of the famous old Trocadero
Rancho at Nineteenth Avenue and Sloat Boule-
vard.

a N historic old landmark is

The gift, comprising three city blocks, was pre-
sented to the city by the donor as a memorial to
her late husband, Sigmund Stern, for many years
a prominent civic leader of San Francisco. The
work of developing the area as a recreation center
is already under way. Bernard 1. Maybeck, one
of the nation’s foremost architects, whose Fine
Arts Palace at the Panama Pacific International
Exposition was acclaimed as one of the most
beautiful dream structures ever erected, is con-
sulting architect for the project. The work is
being executed, however, by Garner A. Dailey.

The three blocks comprising the gift are situ-

18

An attractive scene in the lovely
wooded dell of Trocadero, which
Mrs. Stern, president of the Re-
creation Commission, has given to
the city of San Francisco as a re-
creation center in memory of her

late husband, Sigmund Stern.

ated in a wooded dell that forms
a natural bowl, said to be ideally
suited for open air concerts,
pageants and other forms of
recreation. The fact that the
tract is walled in on two sides .
by high slopes, which in turn
are heavily wooded by groves of fifty-year-old
eucalyptus, gives the bowl a sheltered protection
which makes it the warmest outdoor area in San
Francisco. Those who have studied its climatic
advantages declare that it is fully ten degrees
warmer than the rest of San Francisco. Automo-
biles will be prohibited, the park being reserved
for pedestrians only. '
The property, which comprises the entire dell,
forms an integral part in San Francisco’s colorful
past. It was purchased from George M. Greene,
octogenerian, who was born on the property and
still lives there in the famous old house, said to
be one of the first built in San Francisco. This
house, which for a number of years was operated
as the Trocadero Inn, a famous meeting place for
early San Franciscans, is still standing and with
reconditioning will be available as a club house. i

Spring Thoughts for Recreationists

1

April is with us again!
How can we make the most

of the joys she brings?

By MARIE F. HEISLEY

Forest Service
U. S. Department of
Agriculture

“ HE spring, the spring, has come again.” For
Tweeks now the days have been getting pre-
ceptibly longer and brighter, and Old Sol
himself has so warmed up to his job that the
whole realm of nature is awakening from its win-
ter lethargy. Brooks and streams which have
been silent all winter long have thrown off their
icy coverings and have once more begun to sing,
only to be outclassed by the chorus of frogs living
in or near them. That earliest harbinger of
spring, the skunk cabbage,
has already appeared in
the fields and in wet mead-
ows and along the banks
of streams the pussy wil-
low greets us with her
furry silver flowers.
March winds have even
now given place to April
with her tantalizing
changes from sunshine to
showers.
Forests and Water
The forest is a natural

"April is here!

and there;

April is here!"

o
'

April

There's a song in the maple, thrilling and new;
There's a Flash of wings of heaven's own blue;
There's a veil ol: green on the'nearer hills;
There's a burst of rapture in woodland rills;
There are stars in the meadow, drOpped here

There's a breath of arbutus in the air;
There's a dash ol: rain as il: Hung in iest;
There's an arch ol: color spanning the west;

(From "Arbor Day Selections"
by Katherine L. Craig.)

 

Courtesy U. S. Forest Service.

One cannot begin too young to know the delights
of camping, and to learn the secrets of campcraft!

conservator of water and through its help April
rains, as well as all others, go to make up our
available SUpply of that precious fluid. When you
have been in the woods during a rain, you must
have noticed that the water does not beat down
in seemingly unbroken streams as it does in the
open. This is because the thick forest canopy
of leaves and branches breaks the fall of the rain.
When the rain reaches the ground, it again meets
obstructions in the leaf litter, which checks the
water in its flow over the surface, soaks up part
of it and passes the remainder down to the humus.
The humus is that layer of rich, black, light soil
found directly beneath the surface litter of leaves,
twigs, and other decay-
ing vegetable matter. The
water seeps down through
the humus to the min-
eral soil and to the fissures
of the rocks. Th e r e it
joins the great reservoir
of underground ware r
that feeds springs, brooks,
and rivers, insuring them
a steady and even flow
throughout the year.

Rain falling on bare
ground, however, acts in

19

20 SPRING THOUGHTS FOR RECREATIONISTS

a very different way. There (unless‘ the ground
is absolutely level) the water collects into little
rills and streams which, gathering headway may
tear away particles of soil, sand, and even gravel
as they speed on their way. Instead of seeping
.gently into the earth and being fed gradually L0
the water courses the water rushes madly down
the slopes, swelling brooks and streams, often illl—
,ing them with debris. Thus when the soil—bind-
ing forest cover is removed from hillsides, they
become badly eroded and eventually non-produc—
tive and the streams which they feed are apt to
be Hooded at some seasons and almost dry at
others.

The water from melting snows behaves much
in the same way, both in the forest and on open
ground. Snow in the_ woods, however, may be-
gin to melt earlier than does snow in the open,
but the melting in the forest is much slower, last-
ing from four to eight weeks longer. Moreover,
the mellow forest soil is likely to remain unfrozen
or to freeze less deeply than soil” in the open.
Forest soil therefore absorbs more of the snow
water, while the soil in the open, freezing more
deeply and freely during the winter, allows the
water from melting snow to rush off more rap—
idly into the streams. The rapid and uncontrolled
run-off from both rains and melting snows is one
of the contributing causes of spring freshets and
floods, which in sections where forests have been
removed from the headwaters of streams or riv—
ers may become annual disasters.

By checking the run—off from rains and melting
snows forests help to prevent erosion, to reduce
the danger from freshets and floods, to equalize
stream-flow, and to insure a plentiful supply of
fresh and pure water for drinking and other do—
mestic purposes. The protection of the water-
sheds of navigable streams was one of the pri—
mary purposes for the creation of the National
Forests.

An excellent way to demonstrate how forests
control run-off and prevent erosion is by an ero—
sion model. Such a model is easily constructed
and makes a good project for any recreation
group interested in forestry subjects. The model
may be constructed indoors or out—of—doors on
the ground. Directions for making an erosion
model are contained in Leaflet 58, “Making a
Model to Show How Forests Prevent Erosion.”
Copies of this leaflet may be obtained free of
charge from the Forest Service, U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Forests and Fire

It is easily seen, therefore, that if we are to
have a constant supply of water we must protecc
the forests on the watersheds of streams and riv—
ers from fire. Not only does lire kill many trees
outright, but it damages countless others. By
making wounds in the living tissues of trees, ilre
Opens up fertile fields for rot—producing fungi
which hollow out the trees and make them easily
thrown. Fire—weakened trees, too, are more sus—
ceptible to the attacks of insects. By burning the
seeds and young trees, flre destroys all chances
for future forest growth; it retards the growth
of the trees that‘survive; and reduces the fer—
tility of the soil, thereby leading to erosion and
rapid run-off. Fire drives out game and other
animals, and last, but not least, renders the
forest wholly unfit for recreation purposes.

 

In some localities spring is a bad time for flres.
It therefore behooves all those who seek recrea-
tion in the woods during this danger season to be
especially careful with fire. Recreation leaders
can do much to forward the cause of fire preven-
tion by teaching the tenderfoot safe ways of
handling fire in the woods. They can also make
fire prevention one of their major spring activi-
ties.

You can impress your recreation groups with
the need for fire prevention in a number of differ-
ent ways. If there have been any woods fires in
your locality take a field trip to see just how much
damage they have caused to the large trees, to the
undergrowth and ground cover, and to bird and
animal life. Does the place still invite camping
and other forest pleasures? A poster contest in
which prizes are given for the best original fire
poster also helps to create interest. Another way
of presenting the subject is through a story telling
party where each person tells a story of forest
fire damage from personal experience or from
some other authoritative source.

Arbor Day Reminders

Although a discussion of forest fires certainly
has a place on the Arbor Day program, the one
purpose of Arbor Day is tree planting. If you
haven’t planted a George Washington Memorial
tree in your playground or school yard, Arbor
Day is an excellent time to do it. Be sure to have
your George Washington tree registered with the
American Tree Association, Washington D. C.,
which is giving a “Bicentennial Tree Planting
Certiilcate” for each tree planting registered.

SPRING THOUGHTS FOR RECREATIONISTS 21

The fact that Arbor Day has already been
celebrated in your State need not deter you
from tree planting this year, for trees may
be set out at any suitable time during the
spring or fall and dedicated to any person
or event of oustanding importance. If your.
playground does not need any more trees,
the planting may be done in other places
such as around homes, in the city parks, or
even on highways, providing, of course,
that you have received permission to do so
from the proper authorities. Your City
Parks Department or State Forester can
give you information as to the species of
trees suitable for planting in your locality,
instructions for planting, and may even
furnish the trees themselves. You will not
go far wrong in your tree planting, how-
ever, if you will take the following sugges-
tions made by John Burroughs, that great
nature lover, in a letter to the principal of
schools in a Pennsylvania town:

“I am glad to hear that your pupils are
going to keep Arbor Day; if you can teach
them to love and to cherish trees, you will
teach them a very valuable lesson.

“* * * Give the tree root's plenty of room and a
soft, deep bed to rest in; tuck it up carefully with
your hands. The roots of the tree are much more
soft and tender than it's branches and can not be
handled too gently. It is as important to know
how to dig up a tree as how to plant it. A friend
of mine brings quite large hemlocks from the
woods and plants them on his grounds and has
no trouble to make them live. He does much of
the work with his hands, follows the roots along
and lifts them gently from the soil and never
allows them to dry. The real feeders of the tree
are very small, mere threads; the bulky muscular
roots are for strength; its life is in the rootlets
that fringe them, and to let these delicate feeders
dry, even by an hour’s exposure to the drying air,
is to endanger the vitality of the tree. By the way,
in your planting do not forget the hemlock. It is
a clean, healthy, handsome tree. Do not forget
the ash, either, if only for the beautiful plum-col—
ored foliage in autumn. Above all do not forget
the linden, or the basswood, a tree generally over-
looked by our arborists. It is as pleasing as maple
in form and foliage. and then it is such a friend
of the honey bee. What a harvest they get from
it, and just when other sources of honey supply
begin to fail.

“I have somewhere said that when you bait
your hook with your heart the fish always bite;
and I will now say that when you plant a tree
with love it always lives; you do it with such
care and thoughtfulness.”

 

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Service.

Breaking camp involves careful attention to all
the prescribed methods of extinguishing fires.

A spring project suitable for either school or
playground is the mapping of tree species and ar-
rangement in a given locality, such as the play-
ground, park, or section of a highway. The area
selected may be divided into sections and each one
assigned to certain members of the group for
study. The results may be reported in a general
conference and a map of the whole area made
from the section reports. If there is time. the
sections of the area may be interchanged and re-
ports compared. The area can also be studied as
a whole and prizes or honors given to the persons
making the most accurate maps.

For the benefit of community groups wishing
to celebrate Arbor Day, the Community Drama
Service of the N. R. A. has compiled a bulletin,
“Arbor Day Suggestions,” containing a cere-
monial, “In Praise of Trees,” a list of plays and
appropriate musical selections, and “How the Elm
Tree Grew,” a play and ceremonial. Price $.25.

Copies may be secured from the Association
which will be glad to suggest material for spring
celebrations of various kinds.

 

By GLADYS FORBUSH

Director of Handwork For Girls

Playground Commission
Newton, Massachusetts

'1‘ this time when budgets are being slashed,
A it behooves the handwork supervisor to
plan ahead for the summer season. Even

with a normal budget the amount of money spent
on materials is never enough to meet the demand,

but this year only skillful contriving will stretch
over what we have to cover.

Sources of Supplies

\Ve can greatly aid the stretching process by
using discarded material. It is astonishing how
much good material is thrown away or wasted in
business, efficiency men to the contrary! Visit
your local mills and see what they have to give
away or sell. From shoe factories you can get
leather scraps large enough
to make chain belts, odd
buckles, and pieces of fine

material which backed with via she.
cloth are heavy enough to '
use in making pocketbooks. ‘ Germ“!

Good Digging to You!

You will unearth unsuspected treasures
for your handcrait program it you will
dig with sufficient skill and energy!

or sport suits of jersey suitable for braiding or
hooking.

From your local 5 and IO cent stores you can
often get last year’s stamped goods at bargain
prices, although we find it cheaper to buy per-
forated patterns and stamp them on unbleached
cotton cloth. A pattern costing 35 cents if han-
dled carefully will stamp a thousand articles.
Decorators will give you samples of cretonnes
and wall papers, and department stores will often
have broken bunches of beads, large perfume
bottles and odd shaped boxes or stamped goods.

When you have exhausted the survey of stores,
make a list of the occupations of the fathers in
your neighborhoods. People who work for whole-
sale drapers can get “swatches”—pieces of sample
cloth nearly a yard long. If some members of
your community go to Florida in the winter, coax
them to gather and send you long pine needles.

For a few cents postage
you can have several dol-
lars w o r t h transported.

whafha’d, Your survey will disclose a

procession of parents who, ,

besides having materials to

From yarn mills you can ob-
tain very cheaply “thrums"

(odd bits of yarn) and
“special threads” (broken

skeins), a little more ex—'

pensively but still at one-
fifteenth of retail prices.
From knitting mills come
scraps of knitted underwear

22

Wk) ol 2 Yule}:

’l‘m Clio Y"

The material required for this tractor in-
cludes a large spool with edges notched, a
slice of candle with wick removed, a whole
match and half a match. (Be sure the match-
es have been struck.) Put the half match in
the elastic band which is threaded through
the spool and then through the slice of can-
dle. Finally, put the whole match throuh
the elastic and twist until the band is tight.

share, can be interested in
coming to the playgrounds
and taking an active part.

Finally, put a plea in your
local paper explaining what
you are doing and asking
mothers to keep you in
mind during spring clean-
ing and to save straw mat--

GOOD DIGGING TO YOU! 23

ting, spools, stockings, rib-
bons, tape, cloth, paper
dolls, Christmas cards, em-
broidery materials and ar-
ticles suitable for prizes.
Once your community be-
comes in handwork from discarded
material, your donations from this plea will rap-
idly exceed anything your budget can buy.

\Vhen you have selected all materials you can
use for other purposes, take small’ pieces of cloth
and a clothespin and tie together in small bundles
for making clothespin dolls on rainy days.

 

interested

      
 

bomm of

he 16%0581 bath

See page 44 for description of this sewing companion

Things to Make
\Vhen planning the program remember that
you have very little children to plan for. Tots
who cannot sew are the problem of every hand-
work teacher and on them the money must be

and the whole thing laced
together.

Dolls can be made from ‘
spools laced together on
shoe strings; dolls’ fur-
niture can be constructed
from heavy cardboard. the
spools being used for legs.
A hat stand may be made
by older boys by using a
round piece of cardboard,
gluing a large spool in the
c e n t er and above this
slightly smaller s p o 01 s.
graduated in size, until
the c o r r e ct height is
reached. The finished ar-
ticle may be given a coat'
of enamel paint. (I hope
you are the true play-
ground worker who lets
her children paint their
own toys.)

If you are not successful in securing pine
needles, straw matting will do nicely for basketry.
Rip the stitching of the matting carefully and use

Cut oblong piece
from leg of black
stocking. Gather cor-
ners for ears. Sew on
two two-hole buttons
for eyes and make
red marks for mouth.
Stuff body. Sew
across bottom and
attach braided tail.
Tie bow on neck and
use wax thread for
whiskers.

spent.
We find it inexpensive to trace jointed
paper dolls and mimeOgraph them on
light weight oak tag. If a simple pattern
is used, crayons can be given out and
when the whole project is neatly cut
out and colored, paper clips are fur-
nished to join the pieces. Sewing cards
are also good and may be bought from
the school supply houses at about half
a cent apiece.

Teaching our young children to sew
is initiated with stuffed toys which
have been colo red with crayons,
pressed and outlined on cloth with
black embroidery cotton. The diffi-
culty is to get the children to press the
crayoning before they sew. \Ve stamp
these toys with the perforated patterns.

For the slightly older children
Christmas cards can be pasted back to
back for the foundation of a basket
which is made by cutting one hexa-
gonal base and six sides and sewing
them together with bright wools in
baseball stitch. If the boys are mak-
ing these, the pieces can be punched

They must have things to cut and color.

 

Cut three inches off toes
of one pair of men’s
socks having white
heels. Cut top of one
sock in center the width
of ribbing for legs and
sew. Stuff body lightly
and slip other sock leg
over for sweater. Fold
foot flat at back of heel
for head. Mark face and
tie bright wool around
neck. Cut one toe In
two for arms, sew, stuff
and attach. Use other
toe for cap.

the straw.

Stitch together with wool if rafha is
not available.

The boys will do almost anything
that girls do. I once had an enthusi-
astic group of high school boys cutting
the jointed paper dolls for their small
sisters. It was, however, at their own
initiative.

Buttons and spools furnish hand-
craft material. A simple top is made
from a large two hole button and :1
piece of cord. Acorns and spools also
make good tops. The tricky little
tractor which has been described, will
delight the children by going Up hill.

Stockings are a blessing! The silk
ones can be painted attractive colors.
To cut a stocking for braiding or cro-
cheting, slip a rolling pin in it and start
from the top. Cut in one inch strips
barber pole fashion. (The rolling pin
will hold the stocking firmly.) \Vhen
cut take the strip and stretch lightly.
The edges will roll in giving it a loose
cord-like effect. From the black stock-
ings we get the cat with the braided

(Continued on page 44)

Where

Street Play

5 Safe

HERE are a number of cities
which for various reasons, chief

among which is lack of play
space, are finding it advisable to set
aside certain streets at particular
hours for play. '
In Cincnnati, Ohio, where a street
play plan has been in successful operation for
over ten years, streets are selected on the basis
of child population congestion, traffic flow, sur-
face conditions, and the attitude of the majority
of the people residing on the streets. When the
movement started considerable opposition was at
first encountered, and much time was spent in se—
curing approving signatures of the majority of
citizens. An interesting gauge of the changed
public opinion is the fact that after ten years of
service committees from practically every section
of the city, better residential districts as well as
the downtown congested districts, began petition-
ing for playstreets, with leaders not only during
the vacation period but throughout the Spring and

fall.
Plan of Operation

At no time since the first year of operation have
the playstreets in Cincinnati been operated with-
out at least two paid leaders in charge. The plan
in use, as outlined by Will R. Reeves in the re-
port of the Committee on Street Play presented
to the President’s Conference on Child Health
and Protection, is as follows:

24

 

It’s a little crowded for baseball in the street,
and it’s hard to keep in bounds, but it’s fun!

(1) Official barricades with city police signs
designating the street as a playstreet are set out
at both ends of each street promptly at 6:00
RM. These stanchions do not extend from curb
to curb as residents on the streets are permitted
ingress and egress. Other automobile drivers
who ignore the signs are arrested and fined. As
soon as it becomes close to dark, the lighted lan-
terns are hung on the barricades. The streets
are closed to play at 9:00 RM. The supervisors
are held responsible for the use and care of the
barricades, lanterns, street showers, and play
equipment. All this paraphernalia is stored with
a resident on the street.

(2) N 0 hard ball or soft ball is permitted on
these streets. The games are limited to volley
ball for the older boys and men; kick ball, captain
ball and center ball for the girls and young
women; long base (substitute for baseball). for
the smaller boys; an singing games, circle games
and storytelling for the little children. Hand
equipment is provided for jackstones, checkers,
modified quoits, hop Scotch, O’Leary, bean bag

WHERE STREET PLAY IS SAFE 25

 

And modern methods of closing streets
make even tracks safe for young players.°

throw and numerous other small group and indi-
vidual games.

(3) \Vhen the surface permits, all major
game areas are marked off with granolite, one
treatment lasting for the summer period.

(4) Every regular participant, junior or
senior, is registered. The registration card car-
ries the sex, name, age and address. A child
must register on a playstreet or playground. N0
interchange of registration is permitted.

(5) Every street is provided with a bulletin
board on which newspaper clippings, bulletins,
and games rules, are posted.

(6) After the second week of operation reg-
ular teams in senior and intermediate volley ball,
intermediate kick ball, and intermediate and ju-
nior long base are or-
ganized and scheduled
for inter-playstreet
games. Every “travel-
ing” street team must be
accompanied by the play leader except-
ing the senior volley ball team. All
inter-playstreet games are played for
the playstreet championship silver cup.
The junior “C” emblem given for
good conduct, good sportsmanship and
athletic ability, is awarded on the basis
of one for every fifty registered boys
and every fifty registered girls.

(7) Two trained gypsy storytellers
are sent twice weekly to each play-
street. Transportation is furnished for
these storytellers by the service clubs
(Kiwanis, Rotary, Lions and others).

Curbs are very handy—especially
when you're shooting—checkers!

(8) The Traveling Theater with a program
for both adults and children visits each playstreet
five times during the summer. It is not uncom-
mon for these amateur actors, singers and instru-
mentalists to entertain an audience of some 800
to 1,200 people, most of whom stand throughout
the performance and many of whom occupy “box
seats” in the tenement house windows. For many
of these people their only theater going experience
is with the theater-on-wheels.

In Cincinnati the Traveling Theater has been a
propaganda and educational medium. From the
stage and before the performance, officials from
the Public Recreation Commission speak of the
ideals and purposes of the Recreation Commis-
sion, the neighborhood recreational needs, sports-
manship standards for spectators as well as for
participants, the obligation of the hostess street
to visiting players, and the way to act when a game
is won or lost. Tax levies and bond issues for
recreation also come in for their share of the dis-
cussion.

(9) Just before the street is closed, on hot
nights, especially constructed streets showers are
attached to the street fire hydrant, and the chil-
dren enjoy a shower.

Suggestions to Playstreet Workers

The Cincinnati Public Recreation Commission
in its “Rules, Regulations and Instructions,” 193:,
has issued the following suggestions to leaders:

1. Streets are to be ready for play (stanchions
in place and all hand equipment out) by 6:30
RM. sharp and closed at 9:00 o’clock unless it
is still light. Lanterns should be lighted
at dusk.

2. The program of work on your
street should follow along these general
lines:

 

26 WHERE STREET PLAY IS SAFE

From 6:30 to 8:30 continued activity in games
for all ages of children.

From 8:30 until dark special features can be
engaged in. Suggested activities for this time are
boxing, team relay races, athletic events, such as
hop, skip and jump, broad jumping, basketball
throwing and dashes.

3. Group activities between 6:30 and 8:30
should be as follows:

Each leader, male and female, is expected to
have three groups or more representing ages 8,
12 and I5 years, participating in games. It is ad-
visable to spend a portion of time with each group
and enter the game with them. On leaving groups,
designate a leader to carry on the game.

The games director should make every effort
to get all the children to participate in the play
activities.

Watch for late arrivals and newcomers and
place them in their age group. It may be neces-
sary to go along the sidewalk at intervals and
gather the unassigned children.

Remember you are responsible for play activi-
ties, but do not become interested in one group
to the exclusion of others.

4. The program for each evening’s work
should be varied. There are many books on games
from which you can obtain any number of good
games. From time to time, suggested programs
and instructions will be given you. The type and

number of activities will determine the success
of your playstreet.

5. It is necessary that playstreet leaders de-
velop and maintain a friendly relationship with
the residents on the street. A cheery “hello” and
some comment about play go a long way. In case

of any dispute, give the resident the benefit of
the doubt.

6. The male leader is responsible for placing
stanchions and lanterns on time and for distrib—

uting and collecting play equipment. The equip-
ment should be checked each evening.

7. When machines are left on streets after
6:30, request the owners to move them. Ask ii
a kindly way—do not order them to do so.

8. Leaders are urged to designate some place
on the street for bulletins and announcements.
Window shutters have been used to advantage in
former years. Arrange to do this immediately-—
it will help in your future program of work.

9. When the gypsy storytellers visit the street,
the woman leader should gather the small chil-

dren, make certain they are in a quiet and suitable
place, and then resume work with the older
groups.

10. Boxing should not be attempted during the
first week or two. Be certain that your street is or-
ganized and well under way before you encourage
this action. The male leader should arrange to
supervise the boxing bouts or place some reliable
person in charge. No bout should be over three
one-half minute rounds, with sufficient time for
rest between rounds. Boxing is an excellent ex-
ercise, but it must be carefully supervised. Dis-
courage slugging; teach the boys to refrain from
hitting when one or the other is off his feet; urge
the boys to retain control of themselves; make
them shake hands before and after contest; en-
courage fair play and true sportsmanship.

11. Leaders are required to submit a weekly
report to the office. Blank forms for this report
will be furnished you.

12. No regular uniform is necessary for lead—
ers but you should dress in a manner appropriate
for active play.

13. Activity is the essential thing on a play-
street and you are responsible for it. Make a
practice of having several new games ready for
any emergency. You are required to have an exact
knowledge of all the rules and regulations of such
standard street games as volley ball, kick ball,
long base, center ball, dodge ball, etc. You are
required to have an exact knowledge of such
games of low organization at Cat and Rat, Squir-
rels in the Trees, Bear in Pit, Wooden Indians,
and Prisoners Base.

14. A list of games which you should know
and teach will be furnished you.

15. The summer activities on the playstreets
will culminate in a play day to be held in one of
our parks the latter part of August. You will
be expected to enter representative teams in vol-
ley ball, kick ball, long base, with boys, girls and
young men competing. Athletic events such as
relays, basketball throw will also be held. You
will be given definite information later on, but
this is advance notice; begin now to arouse inter-
est in these activities.

16. Suggestions as to any phase of the work
are always appreciated.

17. Remember—Your task is to get the chil-
dren to play and to use this great play instinct
to make them better mentally, physically and
morally.

 

Courtesy Radburn Association

Promoting

Art Hobbies

By RUBY M. PALMER

Director Junior Department
Santa Barbara Recreation Center

Give a child the opportunity to follow his natural urge to
create,and you are helping develop an interest in hobbies.

A hobby is a life saver. It may be studying

have the power of bringing out the inborn
creative tendencies will perhaps be of the
most lasting benefit to all of us.

angle worms or painting pictures, but there

must be some interest outside our routine. The Arts as Hobbies

. The arts had their beginnings in primitive

for himself a high type of morale both for his

own sake and his work, and for the sake of
those with whom he comes in daily association.
He cannot do his best work or live as satisfactory
a life if he does not in some manner partake of
regular and systematic mental and spiritual re-
laxation and refreshment.

IT is the duty of every individual to maintain

The surest guarantee of this desirable state is
the acquiring of a live interest in something
totally and completely apart from the daily rou—
tine of whatever his occupation may be.

A hobby has long been recognized as a life-
saver in a great many instances.

We constantly hear the worn out phrase about
the “tired business man” and his golf, or his in-
dulgence in a musical comedy to make him less
tired. Or he may be the type that collects stamps,
or plays bridge, or, if he is rich enough, he col-
lects art objects from different parts of the world,
or it may be reading, or music. However, of all
these and other forms of hobbies, those which

times during the hours of leisure when our
forefathers were having a respite from hunting
their food or fighting their enemies. “Necessity
is the mother of invention,” and so it was neces-
sary to invent and develop those things which
made life easier and more comfortable for them-
selves. Thus through a long slow process the
arts of weaving, pottery, basketry, painting.
sculpture and metal work, came into existence
and were developed to a high degree of perfec-
tion. It has been said that “human culture con-
sists largely of accomplishment in such primary
crafts as spinning and weaving, working clay,
wood and metal, and applying decoration.”

The increase of leisure time due to the over
abundance of and efficiency of labor saving ma-
chinery confronts our country with a serious
problem which grows more complex every day.
This age of speed has perhaps been so fast that
it has pushed ahead of 115 and we find ourselves
with an excess of empty time on our hands. \Vhat
are we going to do with it? Couldn’t we better
prepare ourselves for a future of even more lei-
sure than we have now, and train our children to

27

28 ' PROMOTING ART HOBBIES

use it in a constructive way instead of a destruc-
tive one? In other words, beat Satan to it!

You can’t paint pictures by machinery and
there is such a thing as a bowl being too round, a
plate too smooth or too perfect in design. It be-
comes uninteresting. Perhaps because some will-
o’-the-wisp quality of charm is lacking in the
machine-made article that is present in the hand-
made thing which has in it a part of the person-
ality of the artist who created it, it has become
alive and there is only one of its kind, not a
thousand.

The development of the arts may be one of the
solutions for the problem of increased leisure, and
we find that much more than in the past is the
training in the arts and crafts becoming a part
of the educational program of our schools and
universities.

Let us look at it from the child’s angle first.
In every child is the natural instinct to create,
whether it be a mud pie, a kite, a boat, or a dress
for a doll. The wise training and direction of this
tendency toward constructive, character building
occupations, rounds out the child’s personality
and gives him a zest for life. Youth is full of
energy. It must be guided in the right direction.
It must have an outlet. Bottle it up and it is as
though you put a cork in the spout of a boiling
kettle. What happens? An explosion is sure to
follow.

Handicraft is valuable as one form of outlet
for several reasons. “It demands accuracy, neat-
ness, order, perseverance, initiative, and through
the attainment of these habits it strengthens the
will, while appreciation of property created by
one’s own labor, brings about a new attitude to-
ward thoughtless destruction.”

Aside from these worthwhile points, crafts in-

struction develops in children a love and appre-
ciation for beauty in form and color, gives them
a power to recognize the best in
art and turns their tastes from
the cheap and tawdry to the
simple and lovely things of every
life with which they live.
Occasionally we come unex-
pectedly upon a surprising de—
gree of talent. Perhaps the child
is unaware that he possesses any
particular skill along certain lines
until he learns the possibilities,
for it has been said that “skill,

"Unoccupied leisure is deadly, stifl-
ing, fatal to life and happiness.
Something to do, something to en-
ioy, something definite and regular
to be accomplished---these are the
only salvation for the man who is
retired. . . . If he hasn't a hobby
now, he should begin at once to
cultivate one, and the earlier in life
he begins, the better for him and
for those with whom he is to asso-
ciate."---Thomas Arkle Clark, The
Rolarian, March, l932.

taste, and tendency awaken only after contact -
with material and tools.” Where industrial arts
is a part of the educational system in a commun-
ity, the additional stimulus of a workshOp where
the child can develop his own ideas tends to for-
ward his interest in his school work.

And now for those of us who have passed
childhood’s enchanting state and have entered into
the serious business of living. Physical fatigue
can easily be cured with sleep and rest but real
fatigue is principally a mental state and its relief
comes largely from a form of satisfying mental
recreation. Physical exercise, music, drama, all
have equal value but to different personalities
different forms of recreation appeal. We are
concerned here with art hobbies.

Real art in any form, in order to succeed, can-
not be hurried in execution. With more and
more time on our hands, we shall be able to de-
velop the esthetic side of our personalities and
open up for ourselves a fuller and more beautiful
existence perhaps. Friendship and good will are
greatly needed in this world we live in and one
powerful weapon in breaking down prejudices
and misunderstandings is the uniting of a group
in the common interest of sustaining an artistic
cause. Perhaps I can best illustrate what I mean
by getting to the subject of the Santa Barbara
Workshop.

The Santa Barbara Workshop

Like all such undertakings, it started in a very
small way with a woodwork class for a few boys
in the cramped and inadequate balcony of our old
gym, with myself as instructor. The class was an
enthusiastic one and the next year it was twice
as big. Then the earthquake came along and
knocked our old gym into a heap and the wood-
work class was moved to the main house where
we added sewing and craftwork for girls. This
was not very satisfactory on account of the noise.
Our building houses so many
different kinds of groups at the
same time that we found it im-
possible to run a musical pro-
gram downstairs with the ham-
mering and pounding of. fifteen
or twenty boys overhead. When
I came back from my vacation
the next summer I had a surprise
awaiting me. I was led to the W
window and told to look out."
\Vhat I saw, to my delight, was

PROMOTING ART HOBBIES 29

one of the empty stores across the street with the
words, “Recreation Center Children’s Workshop”
painted in large letters across the front.

From that time on, in spite of struggles for
funds and the criticisms from those who think
we put too much money and energy into this
phase of our work, the Shop and Junior Depart-
ment has grown from ten or twenty boys to an
active membership of two hundred or more reg-
ular comers and an average yearly contact with
five hundred individuals. The activities consist
of the following:

There are two woodwork clas-
ses per week with an enrollment
of twenty-five boys. As manual
training is not available to the

o ,1,

Courtesy Westchester County Workshop

children in Santa Barbara schools until they reach
junior high school, it goes without saying that
this group is a p0pular one. It is guided by a
young man with a rare understanding of boys and
a sympathy for their enthusiasms.

A mental work class, for boys also, has turned
out some remarkable work and in several in-
stances decided talent has been brought to light.
A sewing class for girls meets once a week and
an effort is made to forge a connecting link be-
tween the class and the homes of the girls in
teaching them to make the articles of clothing
most needed.

The Play School is made up of tiny tots, four
years to nine. They learn simple handiwork and

Hobbiesuone solution for the
problem of increased leisure.

 

supplement it with games, stories and simple
dramatics.

No group is more enthusiastic than the Girls
Club. Girls between ten and twelve and mostly
Mexican and Spanish as to nationality, they meet
once a week for dramatics, once for sewing, and
the big day is craft work day. It takes so little
to thrill these girls and they get so much joy out
of working together. It is surprising what they
can do. They are given work with raffia, simple
metal work and jewelry, tooled leather, bead
work and various other forms of craft work.

The art of puppetry intrigues
both boys and girls. This oldest
of dramatic arts develops so many
different angles of character. They
learn modeling and carving in the
making of their marionettes. They
become interested in costume de-
sign when it comes to dressing the
little figures. Color, line, form,
design and proportion all enter
into the designing and making of
their miniature stage sets and pro-
perties, as does also the fascina-
tion of experiments with lighting
effects. Usually they write their
own plays and thus they develop
further their powers of imagina-
tion.

The Junior Players group is a
large one which writes and acts
its own plays as well as those al-
ready published. The stagecraft
committee of this group meets
regularly in the shop to plan and
execute miniature sets for their
plays. Two classes per week are
devoted to adults, one evening grOUp and one in
the afternoon.

Hitherto we tried having separate classes for
separate crafts—one for metal work, one for
jewelry, one for leather and so on. We found by
experiment this year that it was more successful
to have one class combining four and five handi-
crafts. In this way opportunity is afforded each
individual to get a taste of several arts. After-
ward he can decide what he wants to concentrate
on or do a little in each one. The two classes are
composed of women, although men are eligible
if they wish to enter. Many different businesses
and professions are represented as well as a few
women who are in it just for the fun of it. Some

30 . PROMOTING ART HOBBIES

fine work has been turned out in copper, pewter
and brass and combinations of these metals in
such articles as bowls, plates, trays, book ends,
desk sets, cups, picture frames, and any number
of other beautiful things.

Purses, belts, book covers, portfolios and the
like have been made out of leather and tooled in
either Spanish or Italian manner; sometimes they
are colored with dyes in rich color combination.
Hand wrought jewelry consisting of rings, brace—
lets, pendants, and pins are made of silver and
set with semi-precious stones. Lamp shades also
come in for their share of popularity.

While it is not primarily our purpose to pre-
pare the children or grown—ups in our shop for
more productive wage earning occupations, and
though handwork is more and more used as a
means through which to discover dormant in-
terest and ability, there have been a few instances
where the start they have received in our work-
shop may lead to definite following of certain
professions. We are tolerant, to a reasonable
degree, of crudities and mistakes provided they
are accompanied by real effort; on the other hand
recurrent and increasing emphasis is placed upon
the fact that careful, accurate workmanship will
produce a more perfect piece of art work and
give more complete satisfaction to both the artist
and the possible purchaser. This brings to mind
another branch of the Workshop.

Students may, if they wish, sell their work
through our salesroom and pay us a small com-
mission. We also take certain types of work from
people who do not attend the classes or use the
shop, and sell it for them if we can. This not only
helps them financially but the knowledge that they
are able to create something of sufficient distinc-
tion to be salable stimulates them to higher effort
and brings to them a distinct increase in self-
respect that comes from the realization that their
work is worthy of being paid for.

Some of the children’s classes require the pay-
ment of a small fee and if the child is unable to
pay he is given a chance to earn it in the shop.
Or if he shows particular interest or talent he is
given a scholarship. Adults pay at the rate of a
dollar a lesson (or fifty cents per hour) but are
asked to do this in advance. It is our desire to
maintain enough adult classes during the hours
when children are in school to pretty much sup-
port the rest of the shop. Those who know how
to work but have neither the tools nor the place
to do it are able to use the shop and its equipment
at the rate of thirty-five cents an hour.

There have been many interesting individual
experiences. A woman joined the class in metal
work who was just recovering from a nervous
breakdown. She wasn’t sure that she could stand
the noise but she tried it, and after a few weeks
nothing could have pried her away from that
shop.

Another woman, also ill, came into the class
and enjoyed it to the fullest extent until her
health forced her to give it up. I had a card from
her at Christmas saying she only had two months
to live. I suppose she has gone by this time, but
while she was here I am glad we were able to
help her morale a little. Still another woman, a
victim of an unhappy marriage which had caused
a bad mental break, was with us for two years
'doing art metal work and tooled leather and re-
ceiving from it a healing power far beyond any
medicine made.

A boy handicapped by a muscular affiiction
since birth is gradually out-growing his handicap
and learning to use his hands in a way that is
astonishing. A fourteen year old boy from a very
undesirable home condition has found his outlet
in puppetry and dramatics. It was hard at first
to get him to speak scarcely above a whisper, but
he comes regularly and often to work silently
and industriously on his puppet and gradually he
is getting over his diffidence and shyness, and we
hope eventually to be the means of releasing him
from this bondage of fear that he is laboring
under now.

I would like to see our shop or some other shop
become a real community project in Santa Bar-
bara where any one could come and work or re-
ceive instruction in any craft he wanted without
any charge except for materials. A craftworkers’
guild is a fine thing provided it is managed pro-
perly and by the right pe0ple. This might be one
way of financing such a piece of work.

However, when the city treasurer (who is a
woman) rushes into the shop during her noon
hour to tell us excitedly about a new idea she had
about a light fixture (while she was making out
John Smith’s tax receipt) and asks that we help
her work it out; or when a laboratory technician
from the clinic escapes from her bacteria pets on
her Saturday off and spends the entire day work-
ing in the shop on a piece of leather; or when a
teacher succeeds in forgetting the trials of a
teacher’s life in the trials of soldering a ring with-
out melting it, we feel that our workshop is indeed

(Continued on page 44)

 

Grace, joy and a sense of release from routine
are expressed in this delightful form of dancing.

It is a far cry from an English village green
to the gymnasium of a New York school but
English folk dancing has bridged the chasm.

F you wonder what natural and spontaneous
forms of recreation have been left to city-
bound adults in an age labeled “machine,”
come with me some evening through the doors of
a brick building in New York City. Men in white
ducks, women in gay summer dresses, are run-
ning lightly through the figures of old dances.
They arm, they hey, they -swing one another,
laughing as they arrive successfully at the linal
bow that honors their partners. In another room
you hear the click and tap of sticks accenting the
tune the fiddler plays, or you see white handker-
chiefs waving in the more vigorous morris dance.
It is a long, long road from the green of a quiet
English village to this bare and business-like
school gymnasium. But English folk dancing has
come along that road into the busy lives of New
York men and women. Because it is one way to
meet the need for adult recreation—a pleasant
and feasible way for other cities, too, we believe
—its story is set forth here.

The Values of Folk Dancing
To the average dancer this evening is a release
from desk work, a welcome change for mind and

English Folk Dancing

as Recreation

By MAY GADD

Director, New York Branch
English Folk Dance Society

body. Except for the home-makers, many

lead sedentary lives during the day. \Ve have

teachers, secretaries, accountants, statisticians,

in our classes. \Ve have photographers,

nurses, social workers, artists, musicians, edi-
tors. Probaly the majority of our members come
from the professional groups. With so many
types of leisure-time interest open to them they
would hardly pursue country dancing, week after
week, unless they really enjoyed it. Most of them
would say, “It’s fun 1” if we should ask them why
they are dancing. There are many elements in
that fun.

As exercise it is less strenuous than handball
or a regular gymnasium period; more accessible
than golf; fitted by it‘s easy spring and simple
running and skipping steps to keep the muscles
limber but not to make them stiff. It is one of the
few forms of physical exercise which can be in—
dulged in socially, in the evening, and by men and
women together.

Its sociability is the essence of the folk dance.
Couples do not merely dance with each other, but
are constantly shifting and progressing to form
new combinations with others. Out of this springs
the joy of teamwork, of forming part of a beau-
tiful whole.

The traditional background has a strong appeal,

'too. Centuries of customkinvolving village festi-

vities, court ceremonials, and religious rites and

3]

32 ENGLISH FOLK DANCING AS RECREATION

symbols, have produced the dances we are danc—
ing now. However modern we may be, these
ancient associations give a fillip to the imagina-
tion, a sense of enduring value in music and
motion.

One woman summed it up this way: “No mat-
ter what happens the rest of the week, or how
worried or busy I may be, for two hours on Fri—
day night I am quite happy. I can alizvays count
on that.” And the editor of a nationally known
magazine, who dances in one of our classes, de—
clares that if people only knew what fun it is
there would be thousands instead of hundreds

dancing.

The Program

The season from October to May centers
mainly around regular weekly classes, bi—weekly
country dance parties, and the festival held in
April under the auspices of the Federation of
American Branches of the English Folk Dance
Society. One group of graded classes in country
and morris dancing meets Thursday evenings,
another on Friday evenings. A qualified teacher
and an accompanist (on either the piano or the
violin), comprise the necessary staff for each
class. By using school gymnasiums with their
nominal rent we find it possible to offer a course
of lessons at an average fee considerably less than
$I.00 an hour per person, which in a large city is
unusually low for a strictly self—supporting form
of recreation.

On alternate Tuesday nights we hold a general
country dance party open to all members of the
society and their guests, whether or not they at—
tend the regular classes. The program includes
dances of varying degrees of difficulty. At least
two are so simple that they can be taught to every
one, even “first timers.”

Of the festival itself I should like to say more
than space permits.. It is a gay
and joyous occasion at which
several hundred dancers from
various eastern centers gather.
This year it is to be held on April
23, in the Seventh Regiment Ar-
mory. Groups in suburban com-
munities, in schools and colleges
and churches, receive the list of
dances ahead of time and begin
special rehearsals so that they
can prepare to take part in the
massed dances along with the

The release it offers from desk
work, the change it affords for
mind and body, the enioyable
physical exercise involved, which
can be indulged in by men and
women together, its esssential
sociability and the strong appeal
of its traditional background
make English dancing one of the
most delightful of, recreation
activities for adults.
old associations of this dance
form give a sense of the endur-
‘ing values in music and motion.

city classes. Individual members get groups to-
gether and coach them. It is a thrilling sight to
the spectator in the balcony as he looks down on
the evolutions of all the dancers, making the huge
floor gay with color and movement, but it is
equally thrilling to the dancer to be part of so
large a group and see his own steps form part
of the whole charming pattern.

English folk dancing is by no means limited to
those of British descent. They dance side by side
with Americans whose ancestors came from other
parts of the world. Our branches in the United
States are, of course, affiliated with the English
Folk Dance Society. Teachers approved by the
society and trained either by the late Cecil Sharp

i‘or by those associated with him teach in the dif—

ferent branches, and these branches can, and do,
supply or recommend 'teachers to other groups.

Branches in Other Cities

Boston has a well organized branch, with
numerous classes; New York conducts activities
such as those outlined, and there are groups in
other cities, including Rochester, N. Y., Pitts-
burgh, Cleveland, Chicago, San Francisco, and
Palo Alto, though they are not yet organized as
branches. In spite of the variety of plans through
which it is offered, too many persons still think
of English folk dancing as belonging to academic
circles. Physical education classes in schools and
colleges are natural places to learn folk dancing,
but it has not begun to make its contribution to
American life until it steps out of school walls
and into the country club, the church social hall,
the mountain climbers’ lodge. I believe there are
many men and women who are not satisfied that
golf and contract bridge are the only kinds of
recreation open to them, and to whom the totally
different kind offered in English folk dancing
would appeal strongly.

That is why, even in a year like
this, new members are presenting
themselves and new groups are
being formed. One of the most
interesting developments is that
of suburban classes served by
teachers from near—by metropoli-
tan centers and operated for the
pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Com-
muter.

I should, perhaps, mention one
special contribution of the

(Continued on page 45)

The age-

 

Horseback Riding in a County Park System

Where the automo-

bile must retire In

favor of the horse.

 

Courtesy of the Albertype Co., Brooklyn, N. Y.

By W. RICHMOND TRACY

Engineer and Secretary
Union County, N. J., Park Commission

5 we all know, with the advent of the gaso-
A line engine the horse was replaced on the

public high way by the automobile and
truck. This same machine, however, because of
the resultant sedentary habits developed by man
through the various labor saving devices, has pop-
ularized the horse and all equestrian sports for
recreational purposes during the past few years,
far beyond the fondest dreams of horse lovers of
twenty years ago.

Hunt clubs, members of which are up at day-
break to follow the hounds over hill and dale and
back for an early breakfast, are to be found in
numerous suburban communities. Riding for
exercise and recreation has also had a great im-
petus in recent years. Riding stables have sprung
up in numerous towns and cities in the metropoli-
tan area. Riding clubs which until recently had
barely enough entries for a full day’s program are
now scheduling two- and three—day horse shows.

All those living in closely built up areas and
desiring to ride are always confronted, however,
with the problem of finding. on unposted prop-

Starting at the stable in the Reservation, riders
soon find themselves following beautiful trails.

erty, trails and paths suitable for horse and rider.
Recognizing this need the Union County Park
Commission has made provision for bridle paths
in all of the larger units of the Park System. At
the present time there are about thirty miles avail-
able and many sections are surfaced with Cinders,
making them usable during the winter months.
In the Watchung Reservation of about two thou-
sand acres, the largest unit in the system, there
are twenty-live miles of carefully prepared trails
where a person may ride all day without encoun-
tering a motor vehicle. The open weather en-
joyed so far this winter has permitted the riders
to engage in" their favorite sport-daily. The trails
have not frozen and the warm sunny days have
found numerous riders taking full advantage of
these facilities.

The Commission has a large stable, having a
capacity of fifty horses, located in the Reserva-
tion. Good roads lead directly to the stable and
people may travel here in their cars and then en-
joy this large wooded area by riding over the many
delightful trails which lead into areas inaccessible
by auto. Horses may be boarded at the stable by
the week or month, and there are about twenty

(Continued on page 45)

Modern Babes

in the Woods

By S. ELEANOR ESCHNER

There are many fascinating proiects
through which children are being in-

itiated into the mysteries of Nature.

HE Forestry Notebook Contest has given. an
Topportunity to the children of the Nation’s

Capitol to compete for the group of medals
awarded by the American Forestry Association,
whose medals are distributed yearly in a number
of states. Many essay contests have been held
through the program of the association, while the
planting of trees, tree identification and the prep-
aration of forest posters have
been popular. The notebook con—
tests, however, aroused more gen-
eral interest among the children
of the District of Columbia.

The contest held last summer
was the second of its kind con—
ducted in the District of Columbia.
The first had its origin in the joint efforts of the
Art and Nature Departments of the public
schools, in cooperation with the American For-
estry Association and the District of Columbia
Congress of Parents and Teachers. Fifteen hun-

dred books were presented for judging in No-
vember, 1930.

The Second Year’s Contest

The scope of the contest was broadened the
second year by enlisting the interest of all local
parent-teacher groups, and mass meetings were
arranged in each diivsion before the closing of
schools in June. This plan had the desired effect,
for after the summer vacation the notebook con-
test boasted 4,000 entries, and the books made
with the help of the parents showed a marked
improvement, particularly in the treatment of
specimens collected during vacation days.

Plans for the second year’s contest were pub-

34

During the past summer the
District of Columbia Congress
of Parents and Teachers spon-
sored a Forestry Notebook

Contest as a vacation activity.
Mrs. Eschner, State Chairman,
Forestry Notebooks, tells how
the contest was promoted.

 

 

)‘ r

Courtesy American Forests

Winners of the American Forestry Association
medals with their attractive Nature notebooks.

lished early in June so that the boys and girls
about to leave the school for their vacations
would find in it an interesting
5 u m m e r time occupation. The
children of the fourth, fifth and
sixth grades of the schools of the
District of Columbia and sur-
rounding metropolitan territory
were invited to participate. Facts
regarding the contest were sent to
all teachers of these grades, with definite contest
rules.

Trips to the woods brought knowledge of the
life of the forest, and leaves, bark and the fruit
of the trees were gathered for the notebooks. The
only rules of the contest were that the books must
be made by the children and must not be under
8 inches by 10 inches nor over 18 inches by 24
inches. Pictures illustrating bird and forest life,
including wild life, could be used, and stories of
many forest occupations, lumbering, camping,
fishing and hiking, might be written or clipped.

In September the materials collected during
the summer were assembled in the classrooms
under the leadership of the teachers, and. the
books were put in shape for entering the contest.
Leaves, bark, wild Howers and seeds were per—
fectly preserved and protected by a wrapping of
cellophane. Butterflies were carefully mounted,

(Continued on gauge 46)

 

Courtesy Playground Association of Philadelphia.

World

at: Play

On March 7th the Play-
g r o u n d s Association of
Philadelphia celebrated its
silver anniversary. Six of
the Board of Directors who were charter mem-
bers are still serving on the Board and taking an
active part in the program. Mr. Otto T. Mallery,
a member of the Board of Directors of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, has held ofhce in
the Playgrounds Associations of Philadelphia
since its organization. The first president was the
late Governor Martin Brumbaugh, who when he
became president was Superintendent of Schools
in Philadelphia. In the entire history of the asso-
ciation there have been only four presidents.

The association has been responsible for the
initiation of many of the recreation projects of
the city. Chief among these services was the set-
ting up of the original Board of Recreation which
later became the Bureau of Recreation. In the
beginning the association turned over sixteen
playgrounds of the city as a nest egg, holding title
to two of the properties which it still operates.

A Two nty-fifth

Anniversary

 

“Greatest year for sports
and books, with all records
1) r o k e n for playgrounds,
diamond ball, golf and li-
brary! Year closed with cash surplus. Biggest
tax cut in city’s history.”

An Optimistic
Report

These are a few of the headlines in the story
of 1931 as told by reports in the office of the City
Manager of Beloit, \Visconsin, H. G. Otis, him-
self once a recreation worker. Mr. Otis in his
reports states that 112,478 people attended the six
summer playgrounds—more than twice the num-
ber in 1930, while municipal golf with the new
club house, enlarged course and splendid greens,
chalked up 41,914 rounds of golf. This is a course
record and a gain of 43 per cent over 1929. Book
circulation at the public library jumped to
128,416, an increase of 44 per cent from 1929.

Boys’ \Veek will be cel-
ebrated this year from April
30th to May 7th. During
this week every effort will
be made to “focus attention upon the boy as one
of the world’s greatest assets by making the nation
think in terms of boyhood.” The National Boys'
\Vcek Committee, 211 West \Vacker Drive, Chi-
cago, Illinois, has published a manual of sugges—
tions for the observance of Boys’ \Veek. C0pies of
this manual may be secured from the Committee.

35

Boys’ Week
in 1932

36 WORLD AT PLAY

Westchester County’s Music Festival—The
Westchester County Recreation Commission
is preparing for its annual music festival which
this year will be held May 20th and let at the
County Center in White Plains. There will
'be 1,500 people in the combined choruses from
the various communities. Albert Stoessel will
conduct the chorus, while well known soloists
of the concert stage and a symphonic orchestra
of eighty pieces will assist in the performance.
Opening on the first evening with Haydn’s
famous choral work, “Spring,” the Choral So-
ciety on the closing night will present as the
climax of the festival Beethoven’s Ninth Sym-
phony, especially arranged by Mr. Stoessel to
bring it within the range of amateur choral
performers.

Badminton in Montreal—There were six
hundred entries in the city and district Bad-
minton tournament which started January
23rd in Montreal and ran for a week. Only
twenty of these were for the junior events for
boys and girls, the age limit of which was six-
teen years. Five hundred and eighty people
entered for the adult events including women’s
singles, women’s doubles, men’s singles and
men’s doubles. The age range of the competi-
tors ran from twenty-five to fifty-five years.
“Interest in this game has grown tremendously
in the past few years,” writes Dr. A. S. Lamb
of McGill University, “and it appears that it
has come‘ to stay.”

A Successful Referendum Election—“On the
record of its past four years of service, the
Niles, Ohio, Recreation Service with the back-
ing of many local groups, including the Juven-
ile Court, carried on a successful campaign in
a recent referendum election which decided the
question of the continuation of the recreation
program for the next five years. A fact which
was effectively used in the campaign was the
marked increase in attendance at the play-
grounds from 25,508 in 1928 to 47,443 in 1931.
In 1928 there were 38 cases brought to the at-
tention of the Juvenile Court judge; in 1931,
only 16.

Austin, Texas, Acquires a Tract of Land—
On December 15th Austin, Texas, took a ref-
erendum vote on the offer made by Col. A. 
Zilker, Sr., to the effect that if the city would
purchase at $200,000 a large tract of land ad-
jacent to the Columbia River he would donate
that sum to the Austin Vocational School. The
proposal was carried by a vote of two to one.

   
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
    
  
  

Safeguarding Children—The entire progra
of the 1932 Convention of the National Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers to be held in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, May 15th to 20th, will
be built around the theme of “Safeguarding '
Children through the Present Crisis.” The sub-
ject will be considered from the point of view
of safeguarding the child through the home,
the school and the community.

School Centers Popular—The Recreation
Department of York, Pennsylvania, on Janu-
ary 11th opened three school centers. Within
two weeks there was a registration of nearly
600 individuals. Each center has had an aver-
age attendance of 125 to 150 people, and this is
increasing each week. The average age of those
attending is about eighteen years, and most of
them are unemployed. Center activities in-
clude basketball for boys and girls, tap dancing
for girls, boxing and wrestling, checkers, table
tennis, cards, table bowling, community sing-
ing and social dancing.

A Gift to Philadelphia—Through the be-
quest of Miss Lydia Thompson Morris, Phila-
delphia has been offered a very notable gift in
Compton, the Morris estate, located on one of
the highest points in the city. Long famed
for the beauty of its location and its view,
under the Morris ownership it has been devel-
oped as a garden spot of renown among hor-
ticulturists. Its Japanese gardens are one of its
distinguished features, while the possession of
many rare and exotic plants makes it a place
of interest to the student of botany. Richly
endowed through the gift of Miss Morris it is
expected to become an outstanding place for
study, and under the control of the trustees of
the University of Pennsylvania, named in the
will, the Morris Botanical School and Museum
will be a notable agency in promoting local
interest in botany.

Kenosha’s Symphony Orchestra—~The De-
partment of Public Recreation of Kenosha,
Wisconsin, has a symphony orchestra- of sixty
players of whom about six belong to the Mu-
sicians’ Union, which is giving splendid coop-
eration in the project. The group makes no
charge for its concerts and no one is paid ex-
cept the director of the orchestra. The orches-
tra gives three concerts a year, the Recreation
Department meeting the entire expenses which
does not amount to more than $150. The activi-
ties of the orchestra are a real contribution, it
is. felt, to the musical life of the community.

 

    

Los Angeles Plans City Athletic Federation
—Plans are under way for the formation of a
municipal Athletic Federation in Los Angeles
which will comprise all sports groups and as-
sociations now existing in the city under the
auspices of the Playground and Recreation
Department. There are at the present time
athletic associations for the direction of ten-
nis, basket ball, baseball, volley ball, horse-
shoes and other sports, with each association
controlling numerous leagues and individual
clubs. Under the proposed plan municipal
athletics in the city would align itself with
other amateur sports authorities and the‘ entire
program would be enlarged and benefited.

A Gift for Ann Arbor.——-The Ann Arbor,

Michigan, municipal golf course will be ex-
panded from nine to eighteen holes by the gift
of 62.72 acres of land to the Board of Park
Commissioners by the Detroit Edison Com-
pany. As soon as the lease has been formally
«executed about forty—live men will be put to
work clearing the property.

Golf for Industrial Groups—Among the ac-
tivities provided through the Division of In-
dustrial Recreation of the Department of
Playground and Recreation of Los Angeles,

DAGA LOOM FRAMES

are efficient, easy to operate, suitable for artistic weavings, and inexpensive

WORLD AT PLAY 37

California, is golf. Golf classes are held every
Wednesday evening in the swimming pool
building of Griffith Playground from 6:00 to
9:00. Group instruction is given at ten cents
per half hour; individual lessons at $1.00 per
half hour. Golf equipment is supplied with-
out charge. There is an excellent outdoor put-
ting green for which the fee is ten cents for
eighteen holes or twenty-five cents for the day.

National Child Health Day—Among the
fundamentals on which the National Child
Health Day for 1932 will focus attention are
three elementary necessities—the nutrition of
our children, the importance of an adequate,
clean and safe supply of milk, and the protec-
tion of motherhood. “A measure of the joy-
fulness associated with May Day should be a
part of a every day’s health program. In 1932,
therefore, even more than in recent years,
every citizen interested in the health of chil-
dren in supporting community measures for
recreation. Since, in the words of Dr. Miriam
Van Waters, young people need ‘fiowers,
trees, water, earth and rocks,’ we should ex-
tend rather than curtail the development of
parks and playgrounds, nature study, artcraft,

and hobby clubs.”

  

   
   
       

The Daga Loom is operated with a patented heddle bar so
easy to operate that a child of kindergarten age can ma-
nipulate it. The loom has a wide shed and takes a warp of
more than a yard length.

For the weaving minded individual, it has all the ele-
ments of the large loom, can be taken along when travelling,
handled like one’s piece of knitting or embroidery, and used
as an ideal diversion.

Daga Looms make valued gifts. All models come equipped
with a shuttle and instruction sheet. Warping and decorated
cartons are optional.

We offer a wide variety of dyed yarns for loom weav-
ing, hooked rugs, and hand knitting. There are many
qualities in wools, silk, linens, and cottons—also large
color ranges. Write for samples and price list.

The prices on the two models now offered are as follows:

 

     
     
    

Daga Loom No. 25 (91/; inches in width) $2.00 with shuttle and instruction sheet
Daga Loom No. 25—-$2.50 with a 20/2 warp
Daga Loom No. 35 (14 inches in width) $3.25 with shuttle and instruction sheet
Daga Loom No. 35—$4.00 with a 20/2 cotton warp, packed in decorated carton

Other types and sizes will be offered later

  

 

 

}- EMILE BERNAT a. SONS co.

   

and packed in decorated carton

- JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS.

38 WORLD AT PLAY

The “IT” Suit
W

FIGURFIT
SWIM SUIT

Patented May 26. 1931
Inbuilt Brassiere for \Vomen

Drama and Music in Evansville — The
Evansville, Indiana, Recreation Department
promotes a children’s theater which meets at
10:15 every Saturday morning at the Temple
of Fine Arts. Plays are presented by the ele—
mentary and high schools of the city and by
the high schools of surrounding territory. The
plays are broadcast in the presence of the chil-
dren who are admitted free of charge from the
public and parochial schools. Because of space
requirements tickets are given to a limited

    
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   

‘- Double knit right
into the suit — its
new and different.

 

 

Other Suits - ..
CottIon, 50% \INOOL number from each school. On a Secent Eat
00% woo . ' 1 _

A style f0], a" the urday morning one school presente a mar on
famlly. ette show for wh1ch the marionettes had been

A suit to suit.

made by the children. On February 27th the
Recreation Department held its second annual
tri-state one act play contest. Eight high
schools took part, four from Evansville and
four from nearby towns.

On February 16th the Evansville Civic
Choral Society, numbering three hundred men
and women, presented “The Messiah,” the sec-
ond annual production.

 

Speeds, Lo-Baks,
Standards, Tank
and Swim Models.

 

Athletic Shirts and
Trunks.

 

G e t them from
your favorite
dealer.

Take no substitute.
\Get lndera Figurfit.

NOTICE—l.— —9
DEALERS WRITE FOR PRICES
Manufactured and sold by

lilllel'a  no. N. Y. Sales on...

Room 611
WINSTON-SALEM Wilson Bldg.
N. C.. U. S. A.

- 1270 Broadway
Tel. Dlal 2-2603 Tel. Penn. 6—9456

 

 

  

Music Program to Continue—In spite of the
reduction of the recreation budget in Cran-
ford, New Jersey, the symphony orchestra will

Recreation Supervisors

ATTENTION

RUBICO RED and GREEN Playground
and Tennis Court Surfacing possess-
ing the following superior qualities
is now available:

Resilient
Purvious

Color Guaranteed
Frost Proof

Quick Drying
Dustless

Will Not Crack
Low Maintenance

Manufacturers of Surfacing Materials
for Every Recreational Purpose

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.

Westtield New Jersey

Phone 2-1807
C

Largest designers and builders of athletic fields and
tennis courts in America.

 

continue. This has been made possible by the
fact that the director and the four professional
musicians in the orchestra of seventy have
agreed to give their services. A further econ—
omy will be effected by the elimination of
printed programs, the plan being for the direc-
tor to announce each number and give the
explanatory notes.

Members of the community chorus are being
canvassed for an expression of Opinion on the
plan of paying $1.00 a year dues for the pur-
chase of music. The conductor will contribute
her services.

A Bait and Fly Casting Tournament—The
Department of Public Playgrounds and Recre-
ation of Reading, Pennsylvania, urged the
fishermen of the city to get in trim for trout
season by taking part in a bait and fly casting
tournament held in the armory on February
29th. The events consisted of one—half ounce
bait casting contest at unknown distances and
an accuracy dry fly casting contest, 35 feet in
a 30-inch ring. “You don’t have to be a cham-
pion,” read the invitation, “to get into the
tournament. Get that old rod, line and reel out "i
and try your luck. We are all novices at this
game.”

 

WORLD AT PLA Y 39

Louisville’s Play Tournament—A one act
play contest, open to all non-professional dra-
matic groups in the city was held on March
28th, 29th and 30th in the University of Louis-
, ville Playhouse. Contestants were divided into
age groups as follows: Junior high school age,
senior high school age, and open (no age lim-
it). An entrance fee of $3.00 was charged upon
registration, and each group was given $3.00
worth of tickets which could be used to defray
the entrance fee.

A Play Day for Women—On January 31,
1931 Los Angeles housewives temporarily
abandoned brooms for bats and juggled volley
balls instead of dishes at the Play Day for
\Vomen held under the auspices of the Play-
ground and Recreation Department. From
widely scattered sections of the city the women
came to the Armory at Exposition Park to
enjoy a day of play together.

Hiking the Year-Round—The great popu-
larity of walking trips in \Ve'stchester County,
New York, and its environs has led the West—
chester Trails Association, which had previ-
ously planned trips only in the fall, Winter and
spring, to arrange for week-end and Sunday
outings during the summer months. Another
innovation will be the exploring of fairly un-
known hiking territory and the blazing of new
trails.

“To Promote and Encourage All the Arts”—
The American Federation of Arts, Bar Build-
ing, Washington, D. C., is performing impor-
tant services in the encouragement of the arts
through a number of channels, among them
traveling exhibitions, package libraries, and
the publication of literature. Recreation work-
ers will find it helpful to learn more about this
organization and avail themselves of its ser-
vices.

A Hockey and Sports Camp—The 1932 Mills
College Field Hockey and Sports Camp will
be held from June 25th to July 23rd on the
Mills College Campus, Oakland, California. It
will be a “pre-Olympic Games session,” sched-
uled early enough to permit those who attend
to include both summer session work and the
important meetings to be held in California in
July and August. Further information may be

secured from Miss Rosalind Cassidy, Mills
College P. 0., California.

"keep the
children off
the street: ”

750

Cities and Towns Have
Adopted it Because it is

Trouble
Proof

Does not give trouble.

Does not freeze.
Foot-operated.

Self—draining.

Each drink fresh from the

water main.

Rustless brass pipe.

Angle Stream. Mouth Guard.

+
Write for Booklet

The Murdock Mfg. & Sup. Co-

426 Plum St., Cincinnati. 0.
Established I853

Oufdo or. Bubble font

 

 
     
   
 
  
   

SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather. Metal. Celluloid. Wood Carving. Batik.
Rope and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts
for the Educational. Recreational and Occupational

Fields.
HANDICRAFT MANUAL

I 300 Projects. 400 Illustrations
Price $1.00 Paper, $2.00 Cloth

Sent on Approval Price List on Request

CRGFT SPECMLTIES
. wtese'seasasa .

cmnm ultimatum

 
    

Again—Play Night at the County Center—-
The Monday play nights at the \Vestchester
County Center, announced in the February is-
sue of Recreation, are arousing much interest.
On the second Monday evening there was a
total attendance of about 450 individuals ac-
tively taking part in the program. To accom-
inodate the young people of high school age
who have been coming to the center, the hour
from seven to eight has been set aside for their
exclusive use. After this the facilities are at
the disposal of adults over eighteen years of

40

WORLD AT PLAY

AND PLAY

9
J AMES EDWARD ROGERS

Director, National Physical Education Service
National Recreation Association

THE CHILD
B

What must be done to bring to every child
his rightful inheritance of happy and beneficial
play? This vitally important question is an-
swered in this book, which explains in readily
understood language for busy parents, teachers.
and playground directors the invaluable findings
and recommendations on children's play which
were developed by the various committees of the
White House Conference on Child Health and
Protection. The book discusses all aspects of
play, inside the home and outside the home. It
describes the play impulses of the child and points
out how present-day agencies and facilities are
providing for the expression of these impulses.
and wherein they fail to meet the entire need.
Octan, 204 pages. Illustrated.

THE CENTURY CO.

PUBLISHERS OF THE NEW CENTURY DICTIONARY
353 FOURTH AVE. 2126 PRAIRIE AVE.
NEW YORK CHICAGO

age. One of the splendid things about play
night is the opportunity it affords to teach
many people who have had no previous experi-
ence in the activities how to play basketball,
archery, ping pong, shuffle board and quiet
games of many kinds, thus laying the ground-
work for a more interesting time later.

Social Dancing in Los Angeles—No group
of young people under eighteen may have a
permit to make use of a playground building
in Los Angeles, California, for a social dance.
Adults must make application for such a per-
mit, must invite the young people and must
supervise the activity if a permit is to be given
for social dancing parties for young people of
high school age.

The Art Activities of a Settlement—Art ac-
tivities play an important part in the program
of the Irene Kaufman Settlement in Pitts-
burgh. On ]anuary 3lst there was an exhibit
of paintings made by children at the Settle-
ment which conducts an art school for instruc-
tion in plastic and graphic arts, making use of
the more important media, especially Oil paints.
Recitals by pupils of the music schools of the

 

 

Charges and Fees . . .

ORDER
YOUR
COPY

NOW

For Community Recreation Facilities and Activities
oi Public Park, Recreation and School Systems.

“Ought the use of all recreation facilities to be free?” Under what
conditions is it permissible to make a charge?” “What are other
cities doing?” These are questions discussed at length at all Recre-
ation Congresses and conferences where recreation workers convene.

The report of a study of charges and fees for community facilities
and activities of public park, recreation and school systems made by
the National Recreation Association, will be ready for distribution
about April 15th. The lirst comprehensive study along this line in
the entire field, it will have very great value for recreation and park
workers and oilicials and all others interested in the leisure time field.

PAPER BOUND EDITION $I.OO
CLOTH BOUND EDITION $l.50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

3l5 FOURTH AVENUE -

NEW YORK CITY

AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

On May first, Tam Deering, formerly of San
Diego, California, assumed the duties of Director
of Recreation for the City of Cincinnati, Ohio,
as successor to the late \V ill R. Reeves.

George C. Getgood has recently become Di-
rector of the \Vinnetka, Illinois, Community
'House of which Dr.  \V. F. Davies was for
many years in charge. Dr. Davies is now con-
nected with the Religious Education Association.

Miss Elizabeth O’Neill, formerly Supervisor
of Playgrounds, Division of Physical Education,
Board of Education, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
has retired after many years of service.

Sioux City, Iowa, has appointed a new Director
of Recreation in the person of John E. Gronseth
of Duluth, Minnesota. Mr. Gronseth has re-
signed his position as Director of the Harlem
Boys’ Club, New York City, to accept this
appointment.

 

‘Settlement are given for the benefit of the
neighborhood, while the Irene Kaufmann
‘ Players present four major productions a year.

“School Management”—A new magazine,
“School Management,” dealing with the ad-
ministration, equipment and construction of
schools, has begun publication with offices at
11 East 32nd Street, New York City. Clyde R.
Miller, Director of the Bureau of Educational
Service, Teachers College, Columbia Univer-
sity, New York, is editor; George J. Hecht is
president and publisher. The first issue con—
tains an article by John Dewey, “America.
Needs an Entirely New Educational System.”

Championships to Be Abolished in New
York State—The New York State Public High
School Athletic Association has begun action
to abolish not only State basketball tourna-
ments but all State championships. This action
will begin to take effect after the games which
have been scheduled for this year have been
played. “The association,” writes F. R. \Veg-
ner, Secretary-'l‘reasurer of the association, “is
fostering a wider athletic and physical educa-
tion program for boys and girls through the
stimulation of i n t r a m u r a 1 activities and
through determining principles which will aid
the schools in setting up inter-scholastic con-
tests on the basis of equality of competition.
Believing in the educational principle of learn-
ing by doing, the association is encouraging

Camps and Their
Modern

Administration
Hazel K. Allen

Every phase of camp
administration is
touched upon. Of
vital interest to camp
owners and directors.

$1.75
NATURE CRAFTS . . . . . . . .Emily A. Veazle

Directions are given for leaf and fiower print-
ing. and collecting botanical specimens .35

PROGRAM MAKING AND RECORD
KEEPING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ruth Perkins

A book that will appeal to workers within or-
ganizations who are interested in “program
making and record keeping." 2-00

ELEMENTARY TAP DANCES
‘ Katherine Ferguson
Simple "taps" with music for beginners. 1.15

WATER PAGEANTS

The Kingdom of Isles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
The Rainbow Fountain and

The Harp of Apollo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
Two Water Pageants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3"

The Rescue and Sea Sand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

THE WOMANS PRESS
600 Lexington Avenue New York

EAGLE RINGER PITCHING SHOE

The Eagle Ringer Pitching Shoe is
the tOp-notcher of the Diamond
line. Drop forged from Special
Diamond horseshoe steel—hard or
soft. Preferred by amateurs and
professionals.

Also Diamond Oflicial — Diamond
Junior —— Double Ringer and pitch-
ing shoe accessories.

The Most Complete Line!

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE Co.
46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

41

42

POPULAR PLAYGROUND PROJECTS

vvahe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." “A

“AHeI-e you will find
news of the latest activities
of public officials through—
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans-for future
activities.

SOUTHEIQ IN

 

 

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE -

CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

and fostering schools to use this principle of
conduct in interscholastic games so that win-
ning as the object of the game may be supple-l
mented with the more worth while objects of

play.” ‘

Lawn Bowls in Worcester.——About twenty
years ago Mr. Donald Tulloch, returning from
a visit to Scotland, brought with him sixteen
bowls and converted a tennis court at his
home into a small bowling green. Thus bowl-
ing on the green was introduced in Worcester,-
and ever since a large group of men have-
played at this private green every summer. In
1929, Mayor O’Hara made a sufhcient appro-
priation in the parks and recreation budget to
provide for a public bowling green in the
Green Hill Park area. There are now one hun-
dred members in the Worcester Bowling and
Curling Club, and on week nights and Satur—
day afternoons from twenty-hve to sixty (men
play on the seven rinks. The erection of flood
lights has made it possible to play for hours
after sundown and from May until November
the green is kept in playing condition. Mem-
bers of teams from other cities occasionally
come to Worcester to compete with the local
team.

Popular Playground Proiects
(Continued from page 8)
7. Square Dance “Swing Four Ocean wave.”
8. Cornhusking and Husband Calling Con-

tests.
9. Square Dance “Rotate Four.”
10. Schottische.
11. Square Dance “Change and Swing.”
12. Square Dance.
13. Square Dance—Extra.

Athletics

The popularity of athletics never wanes. Twen—
ty-seven play helds in Seattle. Washington, were
reported last summer in the third annual relay
carnival held under the auspices of the Park
Board and the Seattle Times. An innovation was
introduced in the sectional preliminary plan which
made it possible to put on the carnival in a five-
day period. The city was divided into three sec-
tions, one day being allotted to each for prelim-
inary events in the tields of that particular area.
More than 2000 boys and girls took part in the
carnival which included three divisions of boys!
and two of girls. Boys were classitied according

  
    
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
 

height, while girls were grouped according to
5, those fourteen and fifteen years of age com-
ing separately from those of thirteen and
er. Playground ball throw for distance was
event in each classification. Each first place
met received a medal and ribbons were award-
second and third place winners. The winning
y field took permanent possession of the ban-
emblematic of the city play field champion-
'p. The Park Board’s 20-piece band was on
d to give added color to the event, leading the
d march of all the contestants.

orseshoe pitching was a popular activity on
‘ Seattle play fields, nearly all of which are
ipped with courts. The Park Board held a
ior horseshoe tournament late in August in
'ch 80 young players competed for the city
mpionships. The event came as a climax of
elimination tournaments held on the individual
rts. Boys fourteen years of age and under
hed over 30-foot courts in one division, while
,1 fifteen and sixteen years of age played on
_ lation 40-foot pegs.

Giving The Girl A Chance

(Continued from page 17)
se interested in music, drama, handcraft, social
a mental recreation.
There is a great need for more group activities
ich young men and young women may enjoy
,1 ther. So many cities have had unfortunate
e riences in mixed group play that they refuse
conduct clubs and dances for mixed groups.
her cities do not have a trained leader, the
tiative or vision to provide for the needs of
- “man crazy” young women for natural com-
nity groups. Thus the great need for employed
ls is not being met in many cities.
More family play is essential. So often the
plaint is heard that the family is being split
; each member finds his recreation in a differ-
t place. We need more family play activities,
munity nights, picnics, parties, home play sug-
. ions, entertainments, music and dramatics.
A great need lies in the control of poor athletic
rams for girls and women and the substitu-
n of well selected activities. Some cities have
neficial athletics for girls but in others the play-
are exploited for the glorification of the coach,
r the advertising value to the commercial firm
m gate receipts of the organizer of the meet,

cking the team, and in some cases, for the profit
rnament or league.

f

i
l

GIVING THE GIRL A CHANCE 43

      

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

     

MAGAZINES

Camp Life, January 1932.

“Master of Science" in Organized Camping.
Training Courses of Interest to Counselors and

Directors.

Parks and Recreation, February 1932.

Saveland Park—A Small Park for a Residential
Neighborhood, by Alfred L. Boerner.

The Alama Placita—A Denver Park and. Play-
ground That Attracts the Motorists’ Attention, by
S. R. De Boer.

A German Park and Playground Designed by Amer-
ican Architect.

Acquiring Park Lands by Special Assessments, by
E. A. Howard.

Is Recreation a Necessity? by V. K. Brown.

New Haven’s Parks Keep Pace with Archery Move-
ment, by Harold V. Doheny.

Building a Golf Course.

Regina’s Parks and Playgrounds in Winter, by J. W.
Craig.

The American City, February 1932.

Ridley Park, La Grange, Ga.—An Unemployment
Relief Project, by E. S. Draper.

How City Planning and Civic Spirit Have Kept
Springfield at Work, by Joseph Talmage Woodrqu

New Boulevard and Memorial Drive for Trenton.

Unemployment Relief \Vork Creates Permanent
Improvement.

Gift Restores Lost Park Site to City and Makes

Work.
Tennis on a Reservmr.

Christian Citizenship, (Y. M. C. A.) Vol. 10, 1931.
Motivating Games, by Frederick Rand Rogers.

Scouting, March 1932.

Indian Pageant and Dances.
A Night Hike.

The California Parent-Teacher, March 1932.

Principles of Recreation.

Summer Playgrounds, by George C. Tinker.

Does Leisure Bring Happiness? by Ivah E. Deering.

Recreational Illiterates, by Winifred Van Hagen.

Neighborhood Activity Groups, by Mrs. H. C.
Eichmann.

Alhambra Establishes a Community Clubhouse, by
Mrs. H. C. Baldwin.

Recreation Program of .Oakland Council, by Mrs.
\V. C. Heim.

The Rotarian, March 1932.

“Well, 80 I’m Seventy,” by Thomas Arkle Clark.
(A plea for hobbies.)

The American City, March 1932.

Present Day Swimming Pools Achieve High Stand-
ards of Design and Operation.

Sanitation Furnishes a Holiday Resort—Germany,
by Gordon M. Fair.

To Serve the Living and Honor the Dead—Berke-
ley, Calif.

Items in a Million-Dollar Recreation Program—Lo:
Angeles.

O
44 GOOD DIGGING TO YOU! 1

The Journal of the National Education Association,
February 1932.
Character Building, a Community Enterprise, by
Francis C. Rosecrance.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, March

1932.

The Women’s Division of the N.A.A. F., by Agnes
Wayman.

The Third Winter Olympics, by Warren E. Johnson.

A County Play Day, by Joseph H. McCulloch.

Oklahoma City Junior High Schools Adopt New
Intramural Program, by Joseph E. Roop.

20 Cardinal Principles for Women’s Basketball, by
Marjorie E. Fish.

PAMPHLETS

Proposed Everglades National Park

7th Congress—Document No. 54. Available from
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences—Seventieth An-
nual Report, 1930—31.

Annual Report of the Division of Parks and Recreation of
the Department of Public Welfare, St. Louis, for Year
Ending April 1931.

Twentieth Annual Report of the Playground Community
Service Commission of New Orleans, La., 1931

Second Annual Report of the Board of Park Commis-
sioners, Chillicothe, Ohio.

' National Negro Health Week, issued by the United States
Public Health Service, Washington, D. C.

Nay Day—National Child Health Day in 1931,
published by the American Child Health Association,
450 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

Special Certificates and College Degrees for
Students and Teachers

of Physical Education and Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION
July 5 to August 12

Wide variety of graduate. and under-graduate
courses. Prominent coaching staff. Modern gym-
nasxum. An ideal environment for health and study.

J

Special Bulletin on Request

Address
Director of Summer Session

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
STATE COLLEGE, PA.

Build it Yourself

If you have a home workaho , h ' mac
Each ielue of Popular Homegraftiui: gigging]; “in. you need-

with lane for making such heautlf 1 -

ful inn an: Book Cases 011qu 33:23,

Blrd Houses Ship Models fiuatic Furniture

Len-ins, Children a Playthings, Tea Tables '

Antiques, Candle Stlcka etc. Covers wood:

work ug. metal-working,'lathe Work . leather

craft. toys. cop er. brass and pewter work.

Etgp‘iiziritg'uae an lean-e80! toole.fAi real "How

- - mazaz ue. co

draginxzammako e every atebeg'ilgpleuastioA‘ilBeéf

NTI-IS' TRIAL $1.00

Send $1.00 today for trlal 8 mouthe' aub-

acriptlou. Money back if not delighted.
POPULAR HOMECRAF‘I'

783 N. Michlgan Ave. Chlcago, III.

 

Good Digging to You!
(Continued from page 23)

tail and from the fiesh colored ones, the dolls wit
painted faces and woolen curls. ‘

Small boxes, such as match boxes, are good f0
pasting projects. They can be covered with
single piece of envelope lining or made patchwor
fashion. Three of the boxes placed one on top 0 l
another and bound around with wide ribbon b
come a doll’s bureau when a tiny button is fas
tened on the front 'of each box. Powder boxe
come in fascinating shapes and can be covere
with bits from the upholsterer, as can perfum
bottles. An interesting effect is secured by fillin
a good sized perfume bottle with hot water an
then “painting” on the outside with crayons whic';
melt from the heat of the water and blend.

A little sewing companion is a perennial favor
ite. To make one of these attractive sewing boxes
cut two hexagonal pieces from medium weigh
cardboard. Cut cloth about one inch larger tha
the cardboard pieces and cover each piece by bast
ing edges of cloth together on box. Fasten th
two pieces together with an over and over stitc
to form the base. For sides cut twelve pieces of
cardboard as per pattern, which may be made any
size desired, and proceed according to the direc-
tions for the base. Join sides and base with over
and over stitch.

None of the ideas we have are new. Things
do not have to be new and startling for children
to like them. If they are fun for the child to make
and useful to him when done, they can be re-l
peated year after year. The little toddler who!
goes with big sister this year, next year is big
enough to/ come alone and in all probability she!
has secretly planned all winter to make what big
sister made last year! 1

Your community will have different materials
to offer than mine. Each locality is a gold mine in.
itself—so, good digging to you!

Promoting Ari: Hobbies
(Continued from page 30)

getting to be what we are aiming for, a means of
giving to each and every individual member a
freedom of spirit, an escape into idealism, an op—
portunity for self-expression, and a place for the
imagination to run riot.

ENGLISH FOLK DANCING AS RECREATION 45

English Folk Dancing as Recreation
(Continued from page 32)

Tmachine age” to this movement. It is possible to
cure phonograph records of some of the simp-
br dances and with the aid of a teacher, or at
, East of some one who knows the figures, to begin

. Iancing even if a musician is not available.
, Inquiries by any reader who wishes further in-
l£ormation will gladly be answered by Miss Susan
- I. Gilman, secretary of the Federation of Ameri-
clm Branches, English Folk Dance Society, 159

East 33d Street, New York...

Horseback Riding

(Continued from page 33)

horses for rental by the hour. Competent riding
instructions are provided and class instruction to
school children is one of the features of the pro-
’ram. During 193I 13.927 riders were recorder]
.1 the trails in the Park System. This is some
'1dication of the popularity of the sport.

Special Programs
Special programs are held from time to time
uch as moonlight rides and paper chases. Many
‘njoy the jumps and several are available for
‘hose who have horses trained in this equestrian
rt. There are an almost unlimited number of
ctivities which can be promoted that serve to
rake this sport attractive to young and old alike.

The VVatchung Riding and Driving Club which
perates in connection with the stable has its
eadquarters here, and each year promotes a very
uccessful horseshow. Serious consideration is

’ 0w being given to extending the program to a
wo-day show. The riding ring where the show is
eld is located adjacent to the stable and is an
eal spot for such an activity. Nestling at the
cot of a slope with a background of dense trees

l nd shrubbery, the setting gives the appearance
f a large private estate rather than a public park.

The bridle trails in the \Vatchung Reservation
re always beautiful, but to ride them on a spring
iorning when the dogwood is blooming full is to
. e this wooded area at its best. At these times
he trails are banked on either side by these snow
hite blossoms glistening with the morning dew.
he loosened petals strewn on the path from
bove are crushed into the soft ground by the
0d hoofs of the horses.

As long as the human race can have contact
'ith living things of beauty in this form, life will
ontinue to be a challenge which all of us will
trive to meet!

“NEW

PADDLE TENNIS PADDLE

 

.5

IF yours is one of the 165 cities where
Paddle Tennis is now a regular part of the Re-
creation Program —

IF yours is one of the hundreds of
schools and colleges where Paddle Tennis is now
a popular intramural sport —

IF yours is one of the many Summer

Camps where Paddle Tennis is a popular tour-
nament feature —

You will want to have this new “Tennette”
model Paddle Tennis Paddle, introduced for the
first time this year. Specially designed in shape.
weight and balance, it has exactly the same "feel"
as a regular tennis racquet. It affords perfect con-
trol of the ball. Paddle Tennis played with this

paddle, has an added speed and is a real prepa-
ration for tennis itself.

If you have not yet introduced Paddle Tennis
as a part of your recreation program. try it this
season and just see how popular it quickly be-
comes with all your people. It is played on a
space only half as wide and half as long as a
tennis court. The equipment is surprisingly in-

expensive. Send the coupon for descriptive cir-
culars, Rules of Play. and prices.

- -—-————- —- Send Coupon Now ----———-1

] THE PADDLE TENNIS COMPANY I
g 285 Madison Avenue. New York I
I Please send descriptive circular. Rules of Play. and prices I
I for Paddle Tennis.

. ................................................................................................ _ g
I Name

I .. .-, -  - l
I Address I
I .. ...... M :

THE PADDLE TENNIS CO. INC.

285 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

Sole Makers ol: Paddle Tennis Equipment:

46 ' MODERN BABES IN THE WOODS

ECREATIONAL
IITERATURE

(Please mention Recreation when writing companies)

     

 Organization, it has been found, can add

greatly to the enjoyment and popularity of
horseshoe pitching. The Diamond Calk Horseshoe
Company, Duluth, Minnesota, has issued a booklet en-
titled “How to Organize and Promote a Horseshoe
Club” which gives a model constitution for a club,
outlines the duties of officers, suggests a program of
activities, and offers suggestions for: laying out a
court. All the information you need to start a club
and initiate your horseshoe program is here in a

nutshell.
 An attractive new playground catalogue (No.
17) has just been issued by the American

Playground Device Company at Anderson, Indiana, a
pioneer in the manufacture and sale of playground
equipment, having been established in 1911. In view
of the increasing emphasis on home play and the
needs of the pre-school child, two pages of the cata-
logue devoted to “Home Playground Items” will be of
special interest to many. A kindergarten slide, a lawn
swing for tiny tots, an infant’s swing, a self-propelled
child’s swing and a teeter totter are among the equip-
ment which the American Playground Device Com-
pany has especially designed for backyard playground
use. Many other pieces of apparatus and devices for
municipal, school and private playgrounds are out-
lined. A helpful feature of the catalogue is the inclu-
sion, with the description of each piece of apparatus,
of information regarding installation material, total
labor hours and number of men required.

The latest development in park equipment, the
double duty park bench, is an interesting new device
shown. It contains three articles— two settees and a
table. With picnicking so popular this new money-
saving, comfort-producing device will commend itself
to park and recreation officials.

 “0n one-fourth the space at one-fourth the

cost.” Here is a slogan which has a distinct
appeal, especially in a period of reduced budgets and
with space for play limited in many communities. A
circular, “Paddle Tennis,” issued by the Paddle Ten-
nis Company, Inc., 285 Madison Avenue, New York
City, sole makers of official paddle tennis equipment,
will tell you the advantages and enjoyable features
of this game which has won an important place for
itself on the playground program. A copy is yours
for the asking.

 In the March issue of “Recreation” the Na-

tional Recreation Association announced that
patterns for making doll furniture from cigar box
wood would soon be ready for distribution. These
patterns are now available and a complete set may
be secured for $.20. The articles for which plans are
offered include a vanity dresser, davenport, high boy,
bed, kitchen cabinet, kitchen range and ice box.

In planning your handcraft program you will want
to remember that another inexpensive project is pre-
sented in the patterns published by the N. R. A. for
the construction of three types of paper boats. These
may be secured for $.20.

Modern Babes in the Woods

(Continued from page 34)

    
  
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
   
  

and the forest life of birds and beasts intere ’
ingly portrayed. Many books boasted origini
poems, sketches, essays, stories and description
and were interspersed with picttlres and origins
photographs.

Through the courtesy of Dr. Alexander We:
more, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Ir
stitute, permission was secured to use the foye-
of the National Museum for the exhibit. Tif
presidents of the local parent-teacher groups wer
requested to appoint two chairmen, one to t
books to the museum and check them out at ti
end of the contest, the second to take charge 0
the display during the time of the exhibit at ti
museum.

Seven divisions of the District of Columbi
Congress of Parents and Teachers were repré
sented with books, each division having threw-l
classes of books—Group 4, 5 and 6. There we!
three distinct groups of judges. Group I we
requested to select the best three books in eacl
class in every division; judges in Group 2 selectei
the best book in each class of their division. Tl'l
final judges were Dr. Gilbert Grosvenor, Press
dent of the National Geographic Society, D‘
Alexander Wetmore, of the Smithsonian Institut
and Mr. C. Powell Minnegerode, Director of ti:
Corcoran Gallery of Art.

V5

Trophies were awarded the winners in a C61“;
mony held in the auditorium of the Nation.
Museum. Awards were divided into three classes
A large plaque, mounted on a black walnut stan
and bearing a bronze reproduction of the Genera’
Sherman tree, was given for the best school e}
hibit of notebooks. This was awarded the Jacks
School for its remarkable showing of individu;
notebooks. Of the eighty children enrolled in tlr.j
fifth and sixth grades, seventy-five submitte
notebooks of which fifty were of sufficiently hig
quality to receive the commendation of the judge;
A small bronze medal, also bearing a reproductio
of the General Sherman tree with a backgroun
of Sequoias delicately executed in has-relief, we
given for the best notebook prepared as the joi'
effort of an individual room. Medals were als
awarded as first prizes for the best individu:
notebooks prepared by a girl and a boy.

I New Books on Recreation

 
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   

Music in American Life

‘ y Augustus Delafield Zanzig. With a foreword by
.‘ niel Gregory Mason. Oxford Umversrty Press, New

'ork. $3.50.

HE findings of the study made by Mr. Zanzig under
the auspices of the National Recreation Association
re to be found in this volume of 560 pages. “It is an
pecially valuable handbook of musical information for
1 those interested in music as an important part of
mmunity life,” writes Hollister Noble in the New
York Times Book Re-
view, February 21st. Mr.
Noble points out that the
book is not only a survey
but a comprehensive text-
book of musical efforts
in the United States, an
extensive listing of the
various kinds of oppor-
tunities provided for in-
dividuals to carry out as
far as possible whatever
musical interests they
have. “A quality that en-
hances the value of this
survey is the intelligent
attitude maintained by
' r. Zanzig in constantly distinguishing between those
dividual efforts illuminated by a genuine love of mu-
' , which are found only too rarely in every land, and
at widespread attitude of regarding the appreciation
(1 understanding of music simply as the social obliga-
'n of a cultured person.” Copies of the book may be
cured from the National Recreation Association.

‘

  
   
   
 
   
  
 
  

America's Tomorrow

‘1 C. C. Furnas, Ph. D. Funk & Wagnalls Company,
‘ ew York. $2.00.
n this delightfully written book the author “to whom
the object of life is to live,” attempts to draw a picture
f America’s future placed on the background of her
esent. He reviews the growth of machinery which he
 ieves will finally reduce the working day to an hour
two so that “the job which supports you will become
rather insignificant chore, and the hobby and avocation
i1] absorb more of your energies.” There will be em-
yment for all, he prephesies. Labor will get its fair
re of the profits, and the specter of old age poverty
'1 be banished by an industrial pension system that is
ready beginning to evolve in our larger plants. Leisure,
- says, is going to become more and more one. of the
mands of our standard of living and it represents our
t great step toward liberty. With all this time on our
ds, Professor Furnas asks, what are we going to do?
e answers the question in a most illuminating way.

 

The happy state of affairs he pictures will not come
about without difficulties, the author admits, but he is as
sure it will come. Written in this Spirit, the book is one
well worth reading at a time when gloom is so pervasive.

The Awakening Community

By Mary Mims and Georgia Williams Moritz. The Mac-
millan Company, New York. $2.00.
HERE is a human book written by two women who have
been community workers in Louisiana and who
through this book are making their experience available.
It is not a formal text book but a book of rich and happy
experience. “No one,” says Dr. Charles W. Pipkin in his
introduction, “can read the adventures of Louisiana com-
munities without believing more in the courage of creat-
ing a finer American life. . . . It is a glad human mes-
sage of friendship and fellowship, of work and play,
and of the renewing powers of creative community build-
ing of which this book tells."

In the first part of the book the authors describe their
visit to Denmark and their work in various communities
in this country. The second section of the book includes
a collection of programs—recreational, educational, in-
spirational, and political—for community meetings.

In Defense of Tomorrow

By Robert Douglas Bowden. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.00.
R. BoonN’s book, awarded the John G. Agar prize
for the best book on the scul of America in a con-
test sponsored by the National Arts Club, is the defense
and an interpretation of the machine age. He traces the
influences which have shaped America’s concept of the
State, of religion, of art, literature, and education, and
surveys present trends and predicts the probable effect
of the machine age upon the individual in the course of
its advance. Without ignoring the black marks against
our civilization, he sees a distinct gain in the machine
age in that it has freed the simple citizen, has amplified
his life, widened his horizon, increased life’s resourceful-
ness and released time for leisure.

American Foundations and

Their Fields

Twentieth Century Fund, Inc., 11 West 42nd Street.
New York. $1.00.
THIS study, which covers the last fiscal year of each of
the foundations listed—in most cases the calendar
year of l930—presents its findings under the headings of
“Definitions” (foundations and fields of interest) and
“The Returns"—(number of foundations; capital funds;
geographical distribution; total grants paid; the flow of

47

48 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

funds by field of interest and type of activity; miscel-
laneous data, and foundation tables). Appendices include
check list of American foundations, fields of interest;
foundation grants classified, and two charts showing the
flow of funds.

Handbook on Winter Activities in Snow and Ice.

Compiled by Women’s Editorial Committee, Ameri-

'can Physical Education Association. Spalding’s
Athletic Library. $.25.

‘ This booklet represents a new member of the series
of athletic guides and handbooks for women and girls.
It includes revised rules for ice hockey, articles on meth-
ods of conducting group work in skiing, skating and
snowshoeing, and contains programs for outing clubs and
snow carnivals. It also offers an adaptation of men’s
rules for «ice hockey for the use of girls’ and women’s
groups.

1932 Olympic Games.

Spalding’s OHiciaI Athletic Almanac. Spalding’s
Athletic Library. N0. IX. $25..

All interested in the Olympic Games will want to
secure this booklet which gives facts about the program
for Los Angeles, as well as Olympic, world, American
and foreign records.

A Contribution to the Theory and Practise of Parents
Associations.

By Maria Lambin Rogers. United Parents Associa—
ticgns of New York City, Inc., 152 West 42nd Street.
$. 0.

Mrs. Rogers’ booklet comprises a discussion of the
theory and practise of the United Parents Associations
of New York City which from 1925 to 1930 made a self—
conscious attempt to convert the programs of a number
of parent-teacher associations and mothers’ club from
haphazard civic welfare work to parent education
through study of the parent-child relationship, of the
work of the child’s school, and the new developments
in the science of education. No one is in a better position
to treat this subject than Mrs. Rogers, who from 1925
to 1929 served as executive secretary of the association.
The booklet is not intended to be exhaustive, and an
effort has been made only “to sketch the pattern which
theory and practise have assumed after five years of
work; to list and describe briefly the community situa-
tion and attitudes which on the one hand indicate the
need for some such social effort as the organization has
made, and on the other largely determine the method it
can utilize and the results it can attain.”

A Thousand Ideas for Mothers.

By Helen Jackson M‘illar. The Century Co., New
YOrk. $2.00.

Well called “an investment in ingenuity,” Mrs. Mil-
lar’s book is a clearing house for the ideas and experi—
ences of mothers. In it are to be found tested remedies
for conditions and problems of many kinds. On the play
side there are suggestions for parties, picnics and games,
rainy day diversions and hints for things to do for the
only child -or the convalescent boy or girl. “Toys and
Playthings” is the title of one section.

Playthins for Children.

By Dr. Lois Hayden Meek. Day Nursery Bulletin.
December, 1931. National Federation of Day Nur-
series, Inc., 122 East 22nd Street. New York City.
$.10.

In addition to an interesting article by Dr. Meek, this
issue of the Day Nursery Bulletin contains some sug—
gestions for books and play materials and a number of

book reviews.

Stunts Of All Kinds.

By Katherine A. Miller. Richard R. Smith, Ne
York City. $1.50.

The author of Stunt Night Tonight has given us an
other book of good times in this volume which contain
some easily presented stunts which modernize mythology
history and fiction from the folk lore of many lands
They are, many of them “gain absurd” and fun-pro
voking. The second part of the book contains a numbe
of well worked out party plans which will be very help
ful to all who entertain.

   
   
    
     
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
   

The Recreation Kit, 29.

Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough. Church
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

. Leap Year is the fitting theme of the latest Kit whic
includes Valentine and Washington plans, folk songs an
thirteen musical games.

Ballads for Acting.

Arranged by V. B. Lawton. The Macmillan Com-
pany, New York. $1.00.

“Walk up, walk up, ladies and gentlemen, and tak ,
your seats for the Show!” For here is real drama and i’
melodrama, too, in traditional form with traditional
words and music. The idea of the ballad play is panto-
mimic. The whole of the ballad may be sung by the bard
or chorus, the actors performing the story in dumb show; ‘
or the principals may speak the words which fall to the . '
in the ballad while the air is played softly, the bard or |
chorus taking up the story. Five ballads are presented
here with the music and suggestions are offered for their
presentation.

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINAN'r, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W'. BIDDLR, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLAREch M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALR HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainlield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOHIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

O'I'ro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
MISS ELLEN ScnIppS, LaJolla, Calif.
FREDERICK S. TITSWOR’I‘H, New York, N. Y.
Mas. JAuEs W. WADswoa'rH, 11., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINAN'r, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLtAn H. WOODIN, JR., Plainl'ield, N. J.
FREDERch M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.

