Freedom in Leisure

COMMITTEE on the use of leisure time! What is the idea! Of all the nerve! The response
all over the country to the appointment of such a committee was much the same.

The spontaneous outburst is a very healthy sign. We in America do not want our
lives controlled. Such control as there is we want as self-control. Leisure affects our lives so in-
timately, we do not want any one determining it for us. If there is any place where democracy
applies, it is with reference to our leisure.

Let us make no mistake. Much leisure time. character-building writing in the past has been
definitely on the basis of controlling other people’s lives. Ten years ago a philanthropist of
great wealth sat entranced for three hours while a social worker outlined a plan for “scientifi-
cally conditioning men and women in their leisure time so that they would be compelled to be
good." The social worker’s illustrations even Were taken from science, from chemistry. The dif-
ficulty is to find a Stalin, a Mussolini wise enough to answer the question—What is good, what
is the good life?

Some of us would rather live in a bad world than in a world made good by external com-
pulsion. It is clear that there are certain human activities that are recognized to do harm to
others. Such activities are discouraged. But as between activities not in themselves harmful,
who is wise enough to say in a given generation at a given time what combination of activities
are higher or lower, give greatest satisfaCtion to this individual. to this group of individuals?

Many act as if man were Only intellect. or only body, or only this or that. The truth is
man is many sided and with many moods and with many periods in his own growth. No one
else can climb inside of us and tell us at any given moment what we need.

We are lucky, however, when we have a need if we find a wide variety of choice of recre-
ation facilities, of recreation activities, of education opportunities.

Protests against the committee on the use of leisure time have not been prOtests againSt
providing baseball fields, bathing beaches, swimming pools, gymnasiums, meeting places, libra-
ries, classrooms, recreation leaders, librarians, teachers——-but rather prOtests against any “high-

brow group attempting to tell us what we ought to do,” against a suSpeCted “vast desire to put
across a program of self-improvement on us masses.”

This protest shows the sound sense of America and gives one faith in the thought and
feeling of the mass of the people. Recreation workers, leaders in education, adult education
specialists, may well ponder the clippings from all over the United States which show that
individuals conside’r themselves perfectly capable of choosing wisely for themselves and to a
certain extent by themselves how they will use the leisure time they have achieved.

Perhaps much of the difficulty is in the use of words, even in tone of voice. Rightly or
wrongly there is an impression abroad that many interested in guiding leisure are “snOOty.”

superior, wish to guide other people’s leisure rather than their own. that many of these leaders
are not as in Scandinavian countries close to the common people.

It is because the whole issue of democracy in leisure time is so fundamental that so much
space is given to facetious newsPaper comment which carries so serious a message.

Many were deeply concerned when in certain induStries the working hours were reduced

from eighty-four hours per week to sixty hours or forty-eight hours. There has been no evi-
dence, however, that this reduction which took place when the working day was shortened
from twelve hours to eight hours, from seven days to six days, was disastrous to society. And

in all probability men and women have within themselves the reserves to meet the situation as

the working week is reduced from six days to five days and the working hours are reduced to
seven hours or even six hours per day.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.
December, I933

401

uNothing Can Hold Back the Dawn"

“‘1

 

Notional Recovery Administration Acts

to Teach Workers to Play
Eight Prominent Men Named by Whalen to Study

Proper Use of New Leisure

COMMITTEE to study and report on the pro-
A per use of the leisure accruing to millions

as a result of shorter working hours under
the NRA program was appointed yesterday by
Grover A. Whalen, City Chairman of the Presi-
dent’s Emergency Re—employment Campaign. The
members of the Committee on Use of Leisure

Time are :

RAYMOND B. Fosnrcx, Chairnwn.

MORSE A. CARTWRIGHT, American Association for Adult
Education.

Professor JOHN ERSKINE, Juilliard Foundation.

Professor ELBERT KIRTLEY FRETWELL, Columbia
University.

HOWARD BRAUCHER, National Recreation Association.

Professor HENRY OVERSTREET of City College.

Dr. JOHN .H. FINLEY, associate editor of The New
York Times.

JOHN W. DAVIS, past president of the American Bar
Association.

Importance of the Problem

“With hundreds of thousands of workers all
over the United States about to experience a sud-
den shortening of their working week, due to the
NRA, giving them in many
cases as high as thirty-five

men will be putting in not more than forty-
eight hours instead of from sixty to seventy—two
a week.

“Think of the countless small shops through—
out the country in which salesmen and women
have' been putting in from fifty-four to sixty
hours, who now will work no more than forty.
Multiply these few illustrations by thousands and
you begin to see the enormity of this problem of
how we Americans are to use our new-found
leisure.

“In approaching the problem, the members of
the committee agree with me that we will have to
use Greater New York as a great laboratory—
this is to be a scientific experiment from which
we hope to derive formulae that can be employed
in every city, town and village in the United
States. The personnel of the committee guaran-
tees the thoroughness of this great experiment.

“The more tangible targets of the NRA are
daily becoming more visible. The signing of
agreements, the preparation of codes, the general
acceptance of the principles of collective bargain-

ing, the adoption of maxi-
mum hours and mini-

additional hours of leisure,
the work of this new com-
mittee assumes top rank in
importance,” Mr. Whalen
said.

“For instance, a large
percentage of garment
workers, who have been
toiling in sweatshops as
high as seventy hours a
week, are about to return
to work for a maximum of
thirty-five hours weekly.
What are they going to do
with those thirty-five hours
saved? In the gasoline field,
hundreds of thousands of

When the announcement was made in
August of the appointment by Grover
Whalen of a committee for New York
City to study the use of leisure time,
newspapers found in it plenty of grist
for their mills, and editors, columnists,
and magazine writers made it the sub-
ject of much comment. Later a state-
ment by Mr. Fosdick, Chairman of the
Committee, issued after the first meet-
ing, provided more ammunition for
these writers. The result has been a
series of editorials, articles and letters,
many of them making the project the
subject of good natured ridicule. Some
of the material has been so clever and
amusing we submit it for your enjoy-
ment. A sense of humor is a very im-
portant asset for all workers in the rec-
reational and educational fields!

mum wages are daily ap-
proaching solution. But be.
fore we know it, we will be
faced with the problem, the
most intangible of all to-
day, of millions of hours of
leisure. This may well be-
come the greatest problem
of all, and it is with this in
mind that I have appointed
this fine committee. Its
work may well affect the
lives of 120,000,000 people
of this nation for the years

to come."—-Used by permission
of The New York Times.

-No1:n: There are now twenty-eight
committee members.

403

Do You Have Leisure Trouble?

By DOROTHY DAYTON

00D, 'EARNEST FOLK seem to be fretting
6 themselves quite dreadfully about what

people are going to do with all this new
leisure. Already movements are on foot, research
committees are being appointed and schemes dis—
cussed in an effort to devise some way whereby
all this time can be used worthily. All in all, the

problem of leisure is furnishing a lot of employ-—
ment—a brand new cause for those who have

been looking for one, and future work for typ-
ists who will set down the results of costly and

learned findings on the subject.

It’s easy enOUgh to find out, this reporter dis-
covered. All you have to do is to survey the home
neighborhood. We decided to begin on Elsie, the
typist who lives down the street and is already
knocking off an hour earlier in the evening.

Time for Hair Curling

“What,” said we to Elsie, “are you doing with
all this time you have on your hands now?”

Elsie’s gait was a little less hurried than it
i used to be. She seemed less preoccupied; a little
more inclined to sociability.

“Well, this evening I had time to get a hair
cut,” said Elsie, shifting her wad of gum to the
other side. And in truth, she looked a little less

f rowsy than is her custom.

“Now I’m going home and put some of those

beauty pads on my eyes and take a nap, and first
I’m going to roll my hair into CUrlers, and then I
guess maybe I’ll have time to iron a blouse before

the boy friend comes.”

Well, one would scarcely have expected Elsie
to take courses in economics, or the history of
art. Her use of leisure was, perhaps, just as wise

404

If you have a number of remedies
are offered here. “Try foot bath-
ing and napping,” suggest two of

the people interviewed. “Set and
ruminate,” is one woman’s advice,

“and leave people be.”

 

as anything any committee could suggest. Wc
decided to tackle Mrs. Finklebaum, whose hus-
band gets home at 6 instead of 7. He’s some sort
of a watchman at a factory.

“John? What does he do now?” she repeated
the question good naturedly enough. “Oh, well.
he has time now to take a foot bath before din-
ner. You see his feet swell so, being on ’em all
the time. I was hopin’ he’d get one whole day off
so I can get him to mend that kitchen cupboard.
Always claims he’s too tired evenings. But he
got it this way instead.”

Eternal Feminine

Next we went up the scale a notch. We found
little Miss Brown, who is a brisk coming yOUng
business woman, hurrying along with a bag of
groceries under her arm.

“Oh, I have time now to really cook dinners,’
she said. “This evening I’m going to have real
hot biscuits. Come Up some time. I’m learning
to make waffles.” Miss Brown had to rush along.
because she had invited her beau to dinner.

“7 e decided to try a more serious minded male
next. There was young Mr. Stewart, who is some
sort of a research worker. He, too, is getting off
earlier evenings.

Extra Shave

“There really isn’t so much more time,” he
said. “The only difference is now I have time to
shave and take a bath and change my clothes
before I go out in the evenings. Well, this even-
ing I’m going to take my girl to the movies.”

Some workers, however, are getting a half, or
a whole day off. The first one we approached was
Mr. Hopkins, a young married man, an office
worker.

DO YOU HAVE LEISURE TROUBLE? 405

“Well, so far,” he said, “I’ve mostly been
catching up with my sleep. I do just about like I
do on Sundays, only there’s less paper to read,
so I listen to the radio_ more, I guess, and well,
let’s see, I ran a few errands for my wife, and
wiped the dishes, and then we intended to go to
the natural history museum and look at the dino-
saurs, but we never got around to it. \Ve didn’t
seem to have time.”

Another husband in the neighborhood divulged
that he now has time to walk the dog before din-
ner. A young woman is getting in some daily
exercises and a swim. Louise has time to mend
her stockings and wear white lingerie collars on
her office frocks.

Most of all, however, we liked Mrs. Parsons’
attitude toward time. Mrs. Parsons spends her
days altering garments. She has two hours of
leisure each day that she didn't have before. We
found her sitting on the front stoop, a placid and
contented look on her face. She appeared a little
nettled at our question, however.

Just Set

“I just set,” she said firmly, and we thought a
bit defiantly. “Just set and ruminate. When I
get tired settin’ here, I’ll go inside and set,” all
with a “and what’s it to you?” attitude. Then,
suspiciously, but not unkindly, she added, with an
air of enlightenment.

“Say, I’ll bet you you’re some kind of a wel-
fare worker. And you want to know what people
are doing with their ‘leeshur.’ My husband, now,
he’s upstairs restin’, if you want to know. He’s
got a right to rest, hasn't he? I ’spose, according
to your idea he ought to be studying ‘Roosian,’ or
somethin’. My advice to you, young woman, is
to leave people be. Leave ’em be!”

Least of all, we liked the soda jerker at the
corner drug store. He has that self-righteous,
egotistic air of those who are bent on self—im-
provement. He takes night school courses, car-
ries around learned magazines, and worst of all
passes along a lot' of misinformation on scientific
subjects as he hands out the breakfast coffee and
toast.

The only improvement we could notice as a
result of the leisure, is that everybody’s disposi-
tions seemed a little better. And personally we
hope that, like Mrs. Parsons, a lot of them will
just sit and ruminate.

We have pleasant recollections of country folk
who just sat and ruminated all winter long. As

we remember it, they had a lot of originality and
and individuality that is lacking in the average
city apartment. Calvin Coolidge’s old shoemaker
friend in Northampton was on that order, and
he actually said many of the things which were
attributed to him in the press. We heard him
ourselves, and all the adult education he ever had
came from ruminating between shoe repairs, and
observing the ways of his neighbors.

Perhaps Mrs. Parsons already has ruminated
herself into wisdom. So we pass along her advice

for what it may be worth, “Leave ’em be!”
——-Courte5y The Sun, September 9, 1933.

Work and Leisure

\Vhen John \V. Davis returned from Europe
the other day he was asked what he thought of the
forty-hour week. “I have always believed, and
still do, that no man should work less than eight
hours,” he is reported to have said to the ship
news couriers. “What are we going to do with
all these extra hours? Honestly, how many men
do you know who will use them for self-improve-
ment, for reading a worth-while book or study-
ing something they need?”

Nevertheless, there must be plenty who employ
their leisure for self-improvement. Even during
the depression they have flocked to school in con-
siderable numbers to equip themselves for ad«
vancement. In prosperous times the desire for
self-improvement is one of the most astonishing
revelations of human character. The night schools
and trade schools are crowded. Humble though
they may be in quality, the culture dispensaries
are normally grinding at top speed. If the outline
histories and the sets of classics and the study
classes and the books on manners mean anything.
they indicate a strong impulse for self-improve-
ment among people whose experience has been
limited.

However, men are under no bond to make this
use of their leisure. It is part of their right to
their own souls. They can put it out to compound
interest or waste it, according to their personal
inclination. To many people work is mainly a
means of keeping body and soul together. When
men are not working, it is their inalienable right
to loaf if they want to. Is it only a poet who can
perceive the connection between loafing and in-
viting the soul? Sometimes work may be as mis-

chievous as idling. -
-—Courtesy of the New York Times, August 22, 1933.

Notes and Comment

11F. USE OF newly created leisure time is per-
haps less of a problem than City Chairman
of the President’s Emergency Re-employ—
ment Campaign Grover A. Whalen supposes. One
way to use the new leisure is to serve on Commit-
tees on the Use of Leisure Time, such as the one
headed by Raymond B. Fosdick. Mr. Whalen
speaks of the “enormity” of the problem of lei-
sure; obviously, one way to keep busy is by going
quietly up to persons like Mr. Whalen and telling
them the meaning of the word “enormity.”

Another use for leisure, which all men will ap-
preciate, is in changing one’s pants. A man, in
the ordinary course of his life, spends twenty-
five hours a year transferring his keys, penknife,
and money from the pockets of one pair of trou-
sers to the pockets of another. In the old cut-
throat-competition days of industry, a man did
this nervously and with the feeling that every
second lost was a second lost. Under the new
code, he will be able to go at it more deliberately

and with greater calm—almost with a feeling of
peace.

‘Nith the largest surplus of wheat on hand in
the history of the world, a certain amount of
everybody’s leisure can be spent helping to dis-‘
tribute it, a good plan being to get up a house-to-
house campaign and leave a sample of wheat on
everyone’s doorstep with a little printed slip say-
ing that it is with the compliments of the United
States, Canada. Russia, China, Australia, and the
European deficit areas, and that it can be served
with cream or milk, or with berries and sugar,

and that if you like it you can order more from
your neighborhood grocer.

Another use for leisure is the bicycle. We
would like to see a network of permanent bicycle
paths built throughout the East, to serve bicyclists
in the special way that bridle paths serve eques-
trians. A great many people have now reached
forty years of age in this country, despite all the
handicaps, and they are the ones who specially
enjoy bicycling, the men being somewhat elated
on discovering that they can still ride no hands.

If you think we are being silly about bicycle paths.
we should like to call your attention to the King-
dom of Belgium, where bicycle tunnels under the
Scheldt Estuary are nearing completion. The
King is going to open them himself, no hands.

Idle persons can also spend some of their lei-
sure trying to invent a word or phrase which will
express an idea for which there is at p'resent no
word or phrase in the language. To illustrate: a
week or so ago, we were in the midst of an ar—
ticle on bicycles and were about to write that a
certain shop “rents 1,000 bicycles a week.” Then
we realized that that wasn’t exactly the case. The
shop rents a certain number of bicycles a total of
1,000 times. It doesn’t rent bicycles to a thousand
people, either; but how are you going to eXpress
that idea? The New York Times, we notice, is
fond of printing figures on travel. “New York
had 265,345 visitors per.month last year.” It
didn’t, of course; many of them were the same
visitors coming back for more. Or, “100,000,000
commuters traveled on ferries last year,” or “the
subways carried 1,546,904,726 passengers last
year.” It didn’t, but what is the word?

Frittering is another good way to occupy one’s
idle moments. We should have two major leagues,
the corn fritterers and the banana fritterers. And
what about the Bronx Zoo, under the new leisure?
The Zoo is an important loaf-ing spot and should
be kept open at night, as is the London Zoo, when
the lemurs, nightjars, bats. owls, and other noc-
turnal creatures are active. We were once in the
snake house after dark (delivering a telegram)
and it was a far richer experience than by day.
We should think that a very excellent night hali
could be added to the Bronx Zoo, which would
include an African waterhole to which the large
cats would come to drink.

Anyone who still finds himself with time hang-
ing heavy on his hands may collect stalactites
from the new subway. They have been found
forming in one or two of the stations along the
line. "

—Courtesy The New Yorker, September 2.

Whalenizing Leisure

T COMES to us with a sickening shock that
I Grover Whalen, who can be counted upon to

organize anything from a welcome for Colonel
Lindbergh to a dog fight, has seen fit to appoint
a Committee on Leisure to teach beneficiaries of
the New Deal how to play. It is not the fact of
the Committee, but rather its constituency, that is
depressing. It’s all so blamed “official.” Raymond
B. Fosdick heads it, John W. Davis and John H.
Finley are members of it. Other names include
Morse A. Cartwright of the American Associa-
tion for Adult EdUcation, John Erskine (will he
give away copies of “The Private Life of Helen
of Troy” P), Professor Elbert Kirtley Fretwell of
Columbia University, Howard Braucher of the
National Recreation Association, and Harrv
Overstreet of City College. Mr. Whalen is all
het up about what the poor garment workers, who
will only have to work thirty—five hours a week
instead of sixty, will do with their spare time

May it be pertinent to suggest that it is none of
M r. Whalen’s business?

Leisure is, or should be, whatever the indi-
vidual cares to make of it. If the poor garment
worker wants to go home and sleep for thirty-five
hours, that is his own affair. He is not interfer—
ing with the progress of the New Deal. If a
Committee wants to provide more playgrounds,
or build model houses with gardens attached, or
insure wages that are adequate to allow for week-
end tickets to the Jersey or Long Island beaches,
in the hope that the working man will make use
of the new facilities, that is one thing. But the
creation of the opportunities for loaflng and play-
ing ought to be in the hands of definite commit-
tees for slum razing, park improvements, the
making of swimming pools; and the best insur
ance for leisure well-spent is a strong labor move-
ment pushing for wage scales that would be high
enough to permit of periodical trips to the coun-
try in the working man’s budget. We just can’t
see John \V. Davis or Raymond B. Fosdick tak-
ing much interest in these matters in their ca—
pacity as members of a “committee for leisure.”
We are afraid they will be pushed, by some moral
imperative, into dull schemes for “self-improve-
ment” that rightly antagonize those who see
hypocrisy in the notion that any one class in

society is a Fit guardian of the leisure time of
.

other classes.

A better committee, to our mind, would include
“Babe” Ruth, the Gilbert Seldes who wrote “The
Seven Lively Arts,” John McGraw and Connie
Mack, the National Association of Ping Pong
Table Manufacturers, the Crime Club of Double-
day, Doran, the publishers of the Modern Library,
and Ethel Merman. A few Lifeguards might pro-
titany be thrown in. Leisure should imply good
healthy vulgarity. But we suppose we must take
things as we find them, even when they are “of-
ficial.” If Mr. VVhalen’s committee really wants
to do something for leisure, it might find a way
of preventing the pollution of the waters of the
nearby beaches; it might provide for free open-
air concerts; it might provide better tennis facili-
ties within the confines of the city than are at
present available at the north end of Central Park.
But to do any of these things will require a real-
ism, a quality of statesmanship, that one does not
associate with Mr. Whalen’s “official” way of
doing things.

As for the publishers of New York City, be-
fore the committee becomes mummified with talk
and inaction, they should press their opportunity
here. Any committee for leisure, whether “of-
ftcial” or not, should be primarily interested in
increasing library endowments and library facil-
ities. It is by good reading that the soul of the
“loafer” may be invited to something more than
occasional dips into drug store fiction. But the
increase of the habit of good reading depends on
primary and secondary education, something that
depends in turn on good (and adequately paid)
teaching, not on the appointment of blanket com-
mittees of men who are all right in their normal
individual capacities, but apt to be stuffed shirts

when appointed to anything large, imposing, and

“official.”
—Courtesy of the Saturday Review of Literature.

A Code for feisure

JOHN \V. DAVIS, returning from foreign shores

a few days ago, declared that every one ought
to work eight hours a day, and expressed the fear
that those deprived of this privilege by NRA
would not know how to use their leisure. Few of
them, he said, would read improving books. Mr.
Davis is to have an opportunity to show the gar-

ment workers, who now have a maximum of
(Continued on page 438)

407

Letter to John W. Davis

Dear Sir: My favorite attention-caller, my
right eye, has gazed at your recent statement to
the effect that no man should work less than eight
hours. I assume that you mean eight hours a day,
though if I work eight hours a week my severest
male critic, Mr. James Hughes, of the Herald
Tribune Composing Room, says: “Hey! Look
out, or you’ll crack under the strain.”

You ask what, in the event that men work less
than eight hours a day, they are going to do with
all those extra hours; and how many men will
use them for self-improvement, for reading a
worth-while book, or for studying something that
they need.

As one who has those extra hours, I ask you
to tell me the names of ten worth-while books
that I should read. All right, one such book. And
what might I study that I need? I am asking for
information and guidance.

Now, in what you might call my extra hours.
I ride on trains, subways, elevators, and spend
time in conversing with reporters, the booksy
folk whose office is hard by mine—asking them
often “Isn’t there anything fit to read in this
whole place ?”-—wait for stuff to be set, read
proof, make up, play the concertina, and—this
cuts into the extra hours—read the newspapers.
N o self-improvement in a barrel of it.

What shall I do with my extra time? \Vhat do
you do with yours?

An idea: You write The Conning Tower some
leisurely day. That will give me a day off, and
I’ll devote it to the reading of any book you want
me to read. or to studying something that I need.

EDITOR OF THE CONNING TOWER.

Of course, Mr. Davis is a member of the Com--
mittee on the Use of Leisure Time. It is hard
for us to believe that there is such a committee.
\Vhat we should like to be is a DeSpot on the Use
of Leisure Time. Our first job would be to order
the committee to go to Australia for fifty years of
leisure. Or to go bicycling in Cathay. . . . . After
giving that order, we’d resign, and let the de-
lightfully human race do what it likes with its
leisure time.

(Continued on. page 438)
408

What to Do with Leisure

To the Editor of The Sun:

Sir—Recently John W. Davis professed him-
self greatly concerned over the use of leisure time
that might accrue to workingmen under the new
scheme of things and greatly doubted that they
would apply profitably and constructively any
added free time accorded them from their daily
tasks.

The gentleman is utterly correct, in the writer’s
instance, at least. For, quoting Silas \Veir
Mitchell’s poem called “Idleness” :

“There is no dearer lover of lost hours
Than I.

I can be idler than the idlest flowers;
More idly lie
Than noonday lilies languidly afloat,

And water pillowed in a windless moat,
And I can be
Stiller than some gray stone

That hath no motion known.
It seems to me

That my still idleness doth make my own
All magic gifts of joy’s simplicity."

And what does John W. Davis do with his
leisure hours?

Regardless, one wishes that we workingmen be
permitted to dispose of our leisure time as we see
fit ;' would appreciate it if others would not worry
themselves about our private lives, though we
spend our nonworking hours pitching horseshoes,
working crossword puzzles, drinking beer or
writing letters such as this. In fact, we working-
men trust that some day our altruists, our reform-
ers and all those who'd standardize individualism,
robotize the masses to their own way of thinking,
would, in the words of some poet whose name

the writer is too shiftless to ascertain:

“Let us alone . . .

Time fleeteth fast

And all too soon the lips are dumb;
Let us alone.”

And what do you do with'your leisure hours,
Mr. Davis? \Ve workingmen reciprocate your

interest. ARTHUR FLAHERTY.
—-'Courtesy of The Sun, September 14.

Ideas Wanted

To the Editor of the Evening Post:
Sir—Have your readers any suggestions as to
how I should spend my leisure hours (they are

(Continued on. page 438)

The New Leisure

ENERAL application of the 35 and 40-hour
6 week is very obviously going to cause the

exchange of a good many man-hours for an
equal number of hours of leisure Not that there
haven’t been a great many leisure hours in the
aggregate in the past four years. Twelve million
workers out of employment represents a consider-
able quantity of undesirable and valueless leisure.
What is aimed‘ at and what will probably be ap-
proximated if not perfectly attained will be the
distribution of this leisure among the masses in-
stead of leaving it concentrated in an economi-
cally indigestible lump in the unemployed.

From the pother which has been raised about it
by social specialists one would be led to believe
that the masses hitherto have had very little ex-
perience in the employment of leisure. One gath-
ers the impression from the apprehension with
which they profess to view the situation that it
is a very dangerous thing suddenly to thrust six
or eight or ten hours a week of leisure into the
hands of each of many millions of men. One.
man might be able to get away with it without
any.serious social consequences, but with every-
body trying to get the hang of it at once it is
feared the devil may be to pay.

The fear of the sociologist is thus summarized
by the Literary Digest:

“To Fred Eastman, professor of religious drama in
the Chicago Theological Seminary, this emerging prob-
lem of leisure suggests the story of the boy who received
three Christmas present—a sled, an air rifle and a diary.
In the diary he made these entries:

“December 26. Snowed so hard I wasn’t allowed to
go out with my sled.

“December 27. Still snowing. Had to stay in.

“December 28. More snow. Shot grandma.

“When denied recreation and amusement, ‘we shoot
grandma,’ says Prof. Eastman.”

Dr. Earl T. Sullenger of the University of
Omaha shares this view. As his contribution to
schemes for warding off the threatened danger
he suggests the organization of neighborhood
clubs or community centers with headquarters in
park pavilions, schoolhouses and other suitable
public property.

From the standpoint of simple social theory the
specialists are no doubt right. The wisecrack
about Satan and idle hands has too much of

demonstrable truth about it to be scoffed at. But
it seems to us that the danger has been greatly
overestimated. The theory exaggerates the evil
and the unwisdom in mankind and ignores the
good and the immense capacity for common sense.
Or if it admits those qualities it seems to assume
that they are completely incapable of natural ex-
pression and can be set in motion only by experts
who know ust how to do it. It takes the attitude
that, even in a self-governing society, “mother
knows best.”

An even more serious defect of the alarmist at-
titude is the assumption it makes that we are
wholly unschooled in the use of leisure. It repre-
sents the situation as something entirely new
which confronts us instead of merely the growth
of something in which the American public has
had considerable experience. It overlooks the fact
that society has weathered fairly well the change
from the 72 and 60-hour week to the 48 and in
many cases the 44-hour week already. It ignores
the fact that the opportunities for employment of
additional leisure are already numerous and
varied.

What we seem to detect in the background of
these sociological misgivings is a vast desire to
put across a program of self improvement on as
masses. We don’t rise to culture as we should,
though it is no more than is to be expected of an
educational trend which has all but kicked the
humanities out of the back door to make way for
practical science, vocational training and a kind
of cheap and tawdry democratization of the fine
arts.

Of course all leisure is'not used wisely or well.
To our mind the walkathon craze is one of its
baser manifestations. Perhaps it is the source of
some of our crime. Harvey Bailey at least seems
to have used his leisure from the engine cab to
take a preliminary course in rum running follow-
ed by a post—graduate course in gangsterism.

The golden age of Greece was perhaps the per-
fect flower of leisure. But perhaps it was over-
done, the people tired of it. At any rate it faded
and disappeared and its beauty has never been re-
captured since. It seems preposterous to think

(Continued on page-438)
409

C Use of Leisure Strictly
lndividual's Own Problem

T0 the Editor of The Herald:

I’have read with great interest and high in-
dignation the many articles in current journals,
magazines and periodicals on the subject of work
and leisure. The indignation is not a result of the
attitude the various writers of these articles as-
sume; as the great majority of them concede the
American public sufficient intelligence in making
beneficial use of its leisure time. It is the eco-
nomical, the statistical, the mechanized manner in
which they discuss the situation and not the im-
mensely important personal one.

When I read that “A Committee on the Use of
Leisure Time” (which sounds like a public wel-
fare satire) had been formed with Raymond Fos-
dick at its head, that personal aspect loomed so
ominously on the horizon, that it left me aghast at
the insulting intereference with one’s private life
that the formation of this committee symbolizes.
Why not form a “Committee on Living Other
People’s Lives”? It would amount to the same
thing.

John W. Davis who, besides Grover Whalen,
John Finley and other lesser lights, is a member
of this clever group, is
quoted as saying. “I have

Use of Leisure

To the Editor of The Herald:

I have many times had the impulse, but have
heretofore resisted the urge to “write to the
Times about it.” In the interest of common sense
(that uncommon attribute), however, I feel I
must just this once write to your Mail Bag col-
umn in order to applaud most heartily the splen-
did letter signed by Mary F. Galvin in the issue
of Sept. 26 on the “Use of Leisure.” I also ap
plaud most sincerely your editor’s discrimination
in selecting it as worthy of publication from the
hundreds you no doubt receive on various
subjects.

Miss (or perhaps it is Mrs.) Galvin’s letter in
regard to the “Committee on the Use of Leisure
Time” should be adopted as a sort of petition, and
I’ll wager if it were put to such use and its desti-
nation known to be the halls of Congress, or to
be read at the annual conventions of the various
meddlers in the private lives of citizens, it would
have as signatures fully 85 per cent of the aver-
age people of every community in these United
States, despite their other affiliations.

If the people who give their time to such ab-
surd ideas as this “Committee on the Use of Lei-
sure Time” would spend some of their leisure
time at home getting ac-
quainted with their famil-

always believed and still
do that no man should
work less than eight hours.
What are we going to do
with all these extra hours?
Honestly, how many men
do you know who will use
them for self -improve-
ment, for reading a worth--
while book, or studying
something they ,need ?”
What earthly right has
any individual to make
such a statement, the in—
anity of which is so obvi-
ous that it is insulting to
one’s intelligence; what
right has that individual
to assume the responsi-

( Continued on page 439)
410

“The statement by Raymond Fosdiek about
the use of leisure is highly sensible. He
has been chosen to the leadership in the
movement to get the most out of the added
free time into possession of which millions
have suddenly entered. It is not for this
group to determine how the leisure of other
people should be spent. Its function is
simply to help give knowledge of existing
facilities, educational, recreational, avoca-
tional, so that people can the better choose
what they wish to do. It will doubtless
discover that there are needs beyond the
present provision. For the moment it can
be most useful in stimulating interest in
the subject and in spreading information
about opportunities. A timely word of Dr.
L. P. Jacks is that, as to labor and leisure,
“better conditions” in the one are impos-
sible without “better conditions” in the
other. The fate of civilization may be de-
termined less by what people do in the few
hours when they are “officially at work”
than in their many hours of free time.”

ies (if they have any), or
use their leisure time and
surplus energy knocking
the little white balls
around the golf course
they would do far less
harm in the world.

No doubt hundreds of
people like the writer, who
get along without inter-
fering with their neigh—
bors’ avocations and ap-
preciate the fact that the
great middle class of
Americans are doing a
splendid job of working
and living under many
trying and adverse condi-
tions dUring these trouble-

( Continued on page 439)

Those Leisure Hours

(“Committee on Leisure Time named by NRA
Board to teach workers what to do with their ad-
ditional spare time under shorter working hours.”
—News Item.)

SCENE—FACTORY OFFICE.

Workman (forlornly) ——-Boss, I’m sorry, but
I’ve got to ask you a favor.

Boss ((1 little puzsled) ——These are not your
working hours. You’re not supposed to be around
as late as this.

Workman—That’s just it. You’ve got to help
out or I’ll go nuts.

Boss—What’s the matter? Haven’t I done
everything possible for you? Haven’t I given you
more time off than you ever had in your life?

Workman (weeping)——It’s terrible, boss . . . .
those long hours with no work to do . . . . those
dark periods of complete leisure. They got me
whipped!

Boss—The thing to do is to take that problem
up with the local Committee on Leisure Time.
They have it all figured out.

Workman—I did, boss. They suggested kite
fiyin’. I tried it for a few days, but it didn’t sat«
isfy me. I never was much of a hand for kite
fiyin’.

* a: *

Boss—How about hoop rolling? One of our
men who only works four hours a day under the
new deal tried hoop rolling on his free time and
he seems to be enjoying it immensely. He’s got-
ten so he can roll two hoops at a time.

VVorkman—I tried hoop rolling, too. And train
gazing.

Boss—Train gazing?

Workman—Yeah. Goin’ down to the depot and
watching the trains come in. The committee
recommended that, too, but the same pe0ple come
in every day. Just a bunch of commuters.

Boss—I’d like to help you, my man. You can’t
give us your best work if you come in every day
all in from worrying about how to play in your
spare time.

Workman—No, indeed, sir. It’s got me goofy

* a: *

Boss—Have you thought of stamp collecting
or butterfly mounting? How about steam shovel
watching?

Workman—Steam shovel watching?

( Continued on page 440)

Interview on Success

|933 Model

“What is the secret of success, Mr. Epper-
waithe ?”

“Recreation, leisure, plenty of good hard play.”

“Do you think there is just as much opportun-
ity as ever fer a young man in America?”

“More than ever. There never was a day when
a young man who liked fun could get so far ahead
in business. All he needs is the determination to
avoid toil and long hoursI”

“In your case, Mr. Epperwaithe, did you begin
life with any special advantages?”

“On the contrary, I faced very serious disad-
vantages. My father, for example, believed in the
old-fashioned gospel of hard work. He believed
that there was satisfaction in honest toil, and all

that sort of thing. It was very disheartening.”
* * =I=

“That view was rather generally held some
years ago in this country, was it not?”

“Yes, indeed. Why I can remember back fif-
teen years or so when the magazines printed con-
fessions by successful Americans in which they
actually boasted of how they used to labor from
sunrise to sunset in order to master the business.”

“What did you do to escape this influence, Mr. t
Epperwaithe ?”

“I ran away from home. It wasn’t easy at first
but I finally found a job which required me to

come in only four or five hours a day five days a
week.”

“Then what?” f-
“Well, I immediately attracted the attention of
my employer by going to him and solemnly
promising to let nothing in connection with busi-
ness interfere with my hours of play. I agreed
to take as much time off the job as possible.”
:2: =1: *

“Was your success rapid, “Mr. Epperwaithe ?”

“Very. I lost no time in perfecting myself for
the strenuous demands of business. In twenty—
four hours I had joined the thirty-six-hole golf
club, and before I had finished my first week on
the job I had taken up polo, archery, soccer and
handball. I think I may say without seeming im-
modest, that in no time I had worked out a sys-
tem where I waS'not doing any work whatever.

(Continued on page 440)
411

A Symposium on Loaiing

A Loaiing Code

“It ought not to be assumed that a person doing
nothing is wasting his time.” It is Mr. Raymond
B. Fosdick, the chairman of Mr. Whalen’s com
mittee on the use of the new leisure, who has pro—
nounced these revolutionary, these stupefying,
words. Not exactly pronounced them, that is to
say; but he has committed them to paper in a
public statement to the press. When discovered
by the reporters, the committee turned out to be
a group of rather shy violets, laboring modestly
at the peculiar task to which patriotism and Mr.
VVhalen had called them. Mr. Fosdick’s state-
ment was not even in the name of the committee
as such. Yet behind this reticence there would
seem to be hearts of iron; for the words are there
in black and white—and more, too. The commit-
tee actually does not believe that “any group
should attempt to determine how the leisure of
other people should be spent.” It does not seem to
Mr. Fosdick even “desirable that all leisure be
spent in activity”; and he comes right out before
an astounded world with the flat declaration that
“idleness and loafing have a legitimate part in
the art of living.”

We must, indeed, have left the “economics of
scarcity” behind us. What public man (barring.
of course, a few columnists, irresponsibles and
professional Bohemians) would have dared in
even the last few years thus to demolish the dear-
est cornerstone of the American ethic? How
many even today would similarly flout the great
tenet that “Satan finds some mischief still for
idle hands to do”? It will be noted that Mr. Fos-
dick himself is still cautious; “it is not to be as-
sumed,” he says, that the idler is wasting his time.
'This is really only shifting
the burden of proof. The
gentleman lying on his back
in the grass should not be
considered guilty until the
charge of shiftlessness has
definitely been proved against
him. He remains open to

(Continued on page 441)
412

Mr. Fosdick’s statement gave rise to
some delightful editorials on loafing.
(And who would not agree that just
to loaf is often one of the most satis-
fying ways of spending one’s lei-
sure?) “Is it only a poet,” queries
the New York Times, “who can per-
ceive the connection between loafing
and inviting the soul?”

The Virtue oi Loafing

Europeans have said of America that this coun—
try does not know how to loaf—that our biggest
trouble is our ceaseless activity. This opinion
usually is ridiculed by the rank and file of am-
bitious Americans. Thankful the nation should
be that it is not taken seriously.

But everyone realizes, too, that there is a value
and virtue in learning how to relax. This coun-
try might turn to Europe and say that the Parisian
sidewalk cafes indicate that Europe understands
too well how to loaf.

In the first statement from the New York
NRA committee on the use of leisure time, Ray-
mond B. Fosdick, chairman, pronounces the right
to loaf. He claims that “idleness and loating have
a legitimate part in the art of living. It ought not
to be assumed that a person doing nothing is
wasting time.”

This human sidelight puts a little joy back into
life that some would try to remove. There is a
time, place and use for everything, even loating.
Like any other good thing, its misuse leads to
downfall.

All the new leisure under the NRA cannot be
spent reading good books, learning trades and arts,
playing bridge, gardening and looking after the
children. There is no common sense in ridiculing
the New York committee for its plain-spoken en-
dorsement of loating.

Fosdick continues, “The first thought of the
community in considering leisure ought to be:
‘What do men and women want to do?’ ” After
all, theirs is the decision, not the committee’s.

“The next thought,” says Mr. Fosdick, “what
would they want to do if they had the full and

complete knowledge of ex-
isting facilities?” And here
we come to the real heart of
the matter. It is far prefer--
able to tell people what they
may do than to tell them
what they ought to do.

It is a point to bear in

mind in the coming years.

-—Courtesy of the Flint Journal.
September 26, 1933.

ACorollaryofthe Codes

FEw YEARS AGO Professor Jacks of Oxford
A in a lecture at Glasgow University pre-
dicted that the hours needed for mass pro-
duction and mechanized labor would fall so low
as “to leave the leisure hours the major Quantity”
for all classes of workers. He thought that the
effect of this would assuredly be “to shift the task
of social organization” in such a way that the
chief weight of it would be thrown into a new
field—the field created by the “abundant leisure”
of the citizens. The codifying of the hours of
labor resulting in their reduction to 35, 40, 48 per
week—out of the total of 168 hours in every
week—for millions of workers in America has
suddenly increased that major quantity of leisure
and made its use an urgent social problem.

\Ve are warned that many a civilization has
owed its downfall to “untrammeled” leisure and
that our own may likewise utimately perish from
the same cause. But the spirit which permeates
our sports and which shows itsself in the creative
arts generally is our surest defense against such
degeneration. Personal skill driven out of the
shop or factory by the machine may find a wel-
come in the avocations of leisure—in recreational
activities ; in the cultivation of aptitudes for which
vocations offered no opportunity; in following
hobbies of intellect or hand;‘in the pursuit of
happiness that comes of doing something of hu-
man significance, in “applying one’s heart to per-
fecting one’s works.”

A code looking to the better education of the
people in a sensible use of their leisure time may,
as one has suggested, come in time to be known
as a second Magna Charta of liberty—the free
dom, as Arnold Bennett said in his “How to Live
on Twenty-four Hours a Day,” of so many hours
every week in which “to
spin h e a 1 th , pleasure,

money, cOntent, respect
and the evolution of an

immortal soul.” This does
not mean a feverish filling

of ' every moment with

s o m e hurried activity,
“something to keep in
store.” There is such a

(Continued on page 441)

And now for the other side of the picture!
There should be balm for wounded feel-
ings in the fact that not all of the editori-
als have found in the appointment of the
committee merely a subject for clever
satirizing. Many have pointed out the real
need for the work of such a group and the
possibilities for constructive s e r v i c e .
Through calling attention to the vital is-
sues involved they have helped greatly in
interpreting to the public the issues faced.

That Spare Time

HAT ARE THE American millions now being
w turned loose anywhere from eight to forty
hours weekly in that devil’s workship, idle-

ness, going to do about it?

Nothing to do all Monday or all Tuesday or all
\Vednesday. Holiday and no picnic to go to. \Vith
characteristic vision Grover \Vhalen, head of the
local recovery administration, leaps to the front
with the appointment of a committee to help
solve this great problem. He says:

“A large percentage of garment workers, who
have been toiling in sweatshops as high as seventy
hours a week, are about to return to work for a
maximum of thirty-five hours weekly. W’hat are
they to do with these thirty-five hours saved ?”

\V hat are the clerks in the countless stores and
shops of the nation going to do with the twenty
hours and more a week that will be left hanging
heavy on their hands?

Mr. VVhalen eXpects that his committee will
make New York City a great laboratory for the
solution of the problem for the whole country.

The committee will find a reservoir of eXperi-
ence in the million local victims of unemployment
who can testify well to the effects of a life of no
work and also no play. The problem of these in
solving itself through new jobs will make a prob-
lem of leisure for the now employed. The former
have been bearing the whole brunt of the inevit-
able consequence of the technological age—a sur-
feit of leisure. Now leisure is to be distributed.

Obviously the general solution will cost money
and great effort. It will, doubtless, in great part
take the form of community activities, such as
cultural, musical, choral and sporting activities.
Education will have to be provided along new
lines for people all the way from the cradle to the

grave. Mr. W'halen and

his committee will be pio-
neers in what is to become
the foremost problem of
the American people. In
the answer to that prob—
lem will come a vast new
growth of enlightenment
and new sinews for true

democracy.

——Courtesy New York W arid-
Telegram, August 24.

413

What to Do With Your New Deal Spare Time

Trend to Country, Cultural Gains, lncreased Content Held
Likely—Pursuit of Hobbies Stressed—N RA Experts Needed to

Teach People How to Enjoy Themselves in Economical Ways

REATER LEISURE, more time for personal af-
6 fairs, is being newly acquired under the

operation of the National Industrial Re-
covery Act by the American working man and
woman.

To what use will this new-found leisure be
apphed?

A practical view is to anticipate that the work-
er’s first use of his extended leisure will be recre-
ation. Idealists may frown, but it is well to re-
member that the average working man makes his
own interpretation of enjoyment of life, or, in
other words, the pursuit of happiness, and it is.
therefore, likely that with greater leisure and
means to enjoy it he will put in more hours at
wholesome diversions from the serious tasks at-
tendant upon earning a living, says George A.

Sloan, president of the Cotton Textile Institute,
Inc.

Widespread Benefit Seen

The country as a whole is bound to be a de~
cided beneficiary from the successful application
of the recovery act because it is reasonable to ex-
pect that more opportunities for recreation, with-
out worriment over means of livelihood, will
make for greater contentment with life. Con—
tented workers are assuredly a strong asset to
both industry and nation.

One of the reactions to be expected is an in-
creased interest in various sports. Shorter hours.
will give an employee greater opportunity for
motoring. Railroads and other common carriers
will doubtless experience a sharp pickup in week-
end traffic.

“Back to the Country”

Shorter hours will also tend to move people
farther out into the country, as they will have a
longer time to reach their place of employment.

Added leisure will also permit the further pur-
suit of hobbies. Those persons who had a desire

414

for gardening, necessarily repre‘ssed on account
of lack of time, will now have time for this recre-
ation, with the chance of tangible reward. Others
mechanically inclined, or who are studious by
nature, will have similar increased opportunity
for engaging in the things they like to do. Family
life should also benefit from increased leisure.

Travel and leisure will give people an oppor-
tunity to become better acquainted with museums
and art collections, historic shrines and public
institutions of interest, all of them stimulative of
better citizenship. They will also have more time
for active interest in public affairs.

Stimulus to Spending

Unquestionably there will be a greater stimulus
to spend. More time will be had for shopping
with benefit to the storekeeper, and the farmer
and manufacturer who supplies the storekeeper.
with a consequent benefit to the entire economic
organization of the country.

Some old-fashioned people may be pessimistic
about the increase of time for idleness, but we
prefer to believe that in view of the uncountable
diversions which exist in modern society for
wholesome recreation, the influence of leisure is
certain, in the main, to be good.

Cultural Advancement Likely

The idealist need not necessarily feel that his
theories will not receive attention. Americans
made programs culturally under the working con-
ditions of the past. With more leisure time they
are bound to realize more of the better and finer
experiences of life. Surely, some of these benefits
will be greater cultural advancement.

I would advocate that the NRA draft the serv-
ices of experts in methods of play, and teach the
people to enjoy themselves in wholesome, con-
venient, economical ways, says Jesse Frederick
Steiner, professor of sociology, University of
Washington.

( C ontinued on page 442)

More Time for Play

This Country Has Opportun-
ity to Set a World Example

To the Editor of The New York Times:
NOTE YOUR comment on John W. Davis’s state-
I n1ent that people ought to work eight hours a

day. Good King Alfred, whose haunts about
Winchester, England, I have just been exploring,
believed eight hours should be devoted to work,
eight to play and eight to sleep. That was in 900
A. D.

Modern machine production has made it pos-
sible for more people to play. Preaching at
Southampton on August 6 to a thousand or two
people, I stated that hours of work must needs
be reduced, that hours of leisure must be in-
creased. I said that modern inventions gave more
chance to all the folks to go to the movies, use bus
lines, for travel, boats, airplanes, &c., for en-
larged knowledge of the world in which they live.
Likewise radio, the illustrated press, current
events of the screen, wireless reports from every
section of the globe, are educating all the people
so that the average power to think and act is
amplified daily.

It is no longer possible to expect a leisure class
to enjoy the labors of the rest. Feudalism was one
economic system; ultra—capitalism has superseded
that. But a reconstructed, liberal international
economic planning is inevitable.

My education, my reading
and my studies have made

Leisure IOO Years Ago

INCE THE ADVENT of the NRA with its pro—
S gram for decreased working hours, there has

been much discussion of the problem of lei-
sure. What is to be done with all this time which
labor is to find on its hands? It is not a new prob-
lem, and yet it was somewhat startling to find it
posed the other day in our “Century Ago” col-
umn. By bringing the elements of nature and the
principles of science to our aid, this item in the
Evening Post of a hundred years ago stated, our
surplus time has been increased nearly a thousand
per 'cent. “And how is this time appropriated?”
the writer asks. “This question is nearly answer-
ed in three words, viz., idleness, extravagance, and
vice. How ought it to be appr0priated? The an-
swer is in two words, to mind and heart—intel-
lectual and moral improvement.” How much
progress has been made in the century since this
was written in utilizing leisure along such lines
we would not attempt to answer. But we would
call attention to this discussion of the question to
Mr. Whalen’s committee on leisure.

—Courtesy of The New York Evening Post.

Leisure Time

Interviewed on the subject of the new deal
program, John W. Davis, distinguished democrat
and erstwhile candidate for the presidency, is re—
ported to have expressed
doubt concerning the wisdom

me not selfishly associated.
with intellectual groups who
want to preserve the old sys-
tem of exploitation of the
masses for the benefit of
greedy groups who expand
their own business by con—
trol of the conditions of sup—
ply and demand, gamble in
bonds and stocks, even while
there may be 30,000,000 un—
employed and looking for
jobs.

I believe, as I said at St.

(Continued on page 443)

“I believe that the subject of leisure
is as vital to individual Americans to-
day as the economic dilemma itself.
America will not grow up until it
makes the discovery that a successful
life cannot be summed up entirely in
terms of achievement even if the
standard by which that achievement
is measured is high, and of the spirit.
we have only lately begun to recog-
nize and admit that a successful life
is also to be estimated in terms of
satisfaction returned to the liver, in
the rewards of a contented spirit, in a
vital and growing sense of the full-
ness of life.”—From report of
Alumnae Conference on Leisure, Wel-

lesley College, April, 1933.

of further shortening the
average workday and in-
creasing the leisure time of
the masses. He believes in
an eight-hour day for every-
body, and fears that few per-
sons in any walk of life know
how to employ their leisure
wisely and profitably.

Mr. Davis has pointed out
a real difficulty, but hardly
for the first time. The ques—
tion of teaching boys and
girls to use leisure intelli-

(Continued on page 443)
41 '5

Time To Burn

HAT WOULD you do with yourself if you
had to go to school only from 9 to 12 A. M.

five days a week, and had no lessons to
get, no grass to cut, no housework to do, no
papers to deliver, nor any other compulsory chores
in your spare time? Sounds coocoo, doesn’t it?
“Lead me to it!” yells a voice from the crowd.
Well, twenty years from now your life may be
arranged on just that sort of patter. When, in
1919, the United States Steel Corporation abolish—
ed the 12-hour day only after a prolonged fight,
protesting that any change would ruin the indus-
try, no one dreamed that in 1933 practically. every
manufacturing plant in America would be run-
ning on a 40—hour, five-day week by order of the
Federal Government. For years the American
Federation of Labor has been a voice crying in
the wilderness for shorter hOUI‘S. Now they are
a reality, and every indication points to a still fur-
ther progressive decrease of working hours. For
competent engineers and economists have come to
the conclusion that the only possible way to keep
our ‘tremendous capital plant running steadily
without_piling up vast surpluses of unsaleable
goods and causing periodic crises like that of the
last four years, is to hold down production to ex—
tremely moderate figures. Already there is talk
that the NRA maximum ought to be 25 instead
of 40 hours a week. The experts are saying that
all the necessary work of the world can eventually
be done in a four—hour day, and still raise the
standard of living for every man, woman, and
child.
It is a favorite doctrine of aristocrats that onlv
a small minority is ht to “loaf and invite the soul."
To put it a little bIUntly, they think that the com-
mon man has no soul to invite. Mr. John W.
D a v i s , the distinguished
Democratic lawyer, has ex—
pressed the fear that less than
eight hours work a day will
demoralize the ‘American peo-
ple. This sounds suspiciouslv
like the old charge of dwel-
lers on Park Avenue that it
doesn’t pay to provide bath-
tubs for people in the slums

416

“With the new leisure, and work
penduluming back and forth from 40
hours a week, America needs to learn
one thing more—how to play. . . . . If
we used the spare time to widen out
our heads between the eyes, we might
be better for it. If we even had some
hobby or avocation at which to work,
it might be useful.”——From the Red-
wood City Tribune.

-—they will only use them for coal bins! But, whe-
ther Mr. Davis likes it or not, the masses wili
soon have time to burn.

We are going to have leisure—leisure in such
quantities as the world has never known for the
common man. The “NRA holidays” are already
upon us——a full Saturday and Sunday. What
shall we do with all these empty hours? Granted
that a stevedore has just as much right to waste
his time as a yachtsman, it is fair to ask them both
whether what they do with their leisure makes
them any happier, healthier, or better furnished in
the head. One large section of the newly leisured
public will go in for golf, motoring, beach parties,
and fishing. The sporting goods business, accord-
ing to trade journals, has taken a sharp upturn.
For these we have only best wishes. It won’t
hurt them. It will prolong their lives, keep them
out of mischief, and perhaps give them an occa-
sional glimpse of nature. Another group will put-
ter about in gardens. cellar workshops, and radio
apparatus. We congratulate them. The man or
woman with a hobby will find it the best salvation
against going to seed. A very large section will
attend more movies and musical comedies, or sit
more hours glued to the radio. And this is where
one of the greatest dangers of the new era arises
-—the turning over of a vastly increased market
to the cynical purveyors of commercialized amuse-
ments. At the lower edges of this held, the line
between amusement and vice is a very thin and
wavering one. The threat is redoubled by the new
freedom of drinking habits that is bound to come
with repeal of prohibition.

For those who have the will to do something
creative with their new-found leisure, the world
lies wide open. Here is a sort of brief code for
loafers: The best leisure--
time activity does these things
for any one: (1) Makes him
do something actively with
his own body, hands, or
mind, instead of sitting stili
'and soaking up impressions
like a sponge; (2) Gives him
a sense of solid achievement

(Continued on page 443)

‘

Shorter Work Days Expected to Provide

Better Citizens

QUERY FROM John W. Davis as to what the
A people will do with their extra hours of lei-
sure under the recovery plans is answered
by the press with some enthusiasm. The oppor-
tunity of better individual training and the en—
joyment of recreation facilities provided by com-
munities is expected to result in better types of
citizens with the prospect of more contented lives.
“One suspects,” avers the San Antonio Even-
ing N ews, “that the question of leisure is worry-e
ing sociologists and the psychologists more than
the persons immediately concerned.” That paper
thinks they probably “are too busy catching up
with their gardening, housework, fishing, golfing,
bridge or reading to give the matter much
thought,” but the Evening N ews continues: “By
and large, what to do with added leisure is less a
social problem than what to do with the several
million persons still lacking permanent jobs. Any—
how, many workers are solving their own leisure
problems in a manner satisfactory to themselves.
Some are going to night school; probably the
promised “opportunity schools” will enroll many
more. Others will spend spare hours reading at
libraries or riding hobbies. Probably few will
pursue culture, but that is no occasion for
anxiety.”

History of the National Recreation Association
is recalled by the Youngstown Vindicator, with
the belief that its services increased and the advice
that “communities cannot ignore the new condi-
tions they have to meet.” The Youngstown paper
continues: “The work period for millions is short-
ened by the recovery act, and the leisure they will
have has been considered in many quarters, some
concern being expressed as to what the result will
be, how the hours will be employed. The Recrea-
tion Association has a definite line of action and
having had experience of many years is in posi-
tion to aid in the national constructive movements.

In planning for this new time in which longer
periods of leisure have been suddenly provided,
the association has had in mind the greater need

of educational and recreational services in Every
community.”

 

Here is an interesting summary of
some of the articles and editorials
published in a number of news-
papers on the use of free time. It
will be encouraging to all workers
in the leisure time field to see how
wide spread the interest is and
how deep and genuine the appre-
ciation of the importance of the
problem.

 

Commenting on the cheers given in its own
State at a meeting for support of the NRA pro-
gram, the Portland Oregon 'Joumal, looking
ahead to “an America of life and business and
recreation and pleasures, instead of the America
that for nearly four years has been a land of
despair,” exclaims: “Why shouldn’t the tidings
be everywhere carried of nobler modes of life and
fairer fields for folks! Why shouldn’t every soul
in the land hear that the Government is trying to
apply squarer laws; is struggling to substitute
agreement and understanding for strife and hate
in industry; is striving to fill every household
with love of right and the pride of truth!”

While conceding that “when men are not work-
ing, it is their inalienable right to loaf if they
want to,” the New York Times voices the belief
“there are many who employ their leisure for self-
in1provement.” The Times continues: “Even dur-
ing the depression they flocked to school in con-
siderable numbers to equip themselves for ad-
vancement. In prosperous times the desire for
self-improvement is one of the most astonishing
revelations of human character. The night schools
and trade schools are crowded. Humble though
they may be in quality, the culture dispensaries
are normally grinding at top speed. If the outline
histories and the sets of classics and the study
classes and the books on manners mean anything.
they indicate a strong impulse for self-improve-
ment among people whose experience has been
limited.”

“Doubt if leisure can be mass handled” is ex-
pressed by the Providence Bulletin, with the state-

(Continued On page 444)
417

The Public Hearings on the Use of Leisure

ERHAPS it would serve
P the interests of clarity

if, at the outset, I were
to outline the purpose of
these public hearings which
are being held by the Com-
mittee on the Use of Leisure
Time. This Committee was
appointed by the New York
City branch of the National
Recovery Administration.

By RAYMOND D. FOSDICK

On November the sixteenth, scv-
enteeth, twenty-first and twenty-
second, the Committee held a
series of public hearings. At the
opening meeting Mr. Fosdick
made a statement regarding the

purposes of the hearings which
we present here. Mr. Fosdick’s
statement is followed by a num-
ber of the addresses given by
those appearing before tll e
Committee on the first day.

known to more people what
the leisure time opportuni—
ties of New York are and
also to inform the New York
City public as to the desires
and needs of our citizens in
relation to their leisure time.
Only through such an in-
formed public opinion can
there be support and back-
ing for those facilities and

We were given no directions
and no terms of reference,
but the idea behind the ap-
pointment was undoubtedly the belief, which can
scarcely be challenged, that the world is entering
an industrial era in which the necessary work
will be done in a shorter working day and a
shorter working week. This applies particularly
to those countries like the United States which
are most completely mechanized. The use of this
newly-acquired leisure constitutes not only a per-
sonal question for the individual but a social
problem for the community. Is the community
equipped to meet the demands for leisure time
facilities which this new industrial revolution is
even now creating? It was the attempt to find an
answer to this question that led to the appoint—
ment of this Committee.

The purpose of these hearings, therefore, is to
bring to public attention information and sugges-
tions as to what people want to do with their
leisure, what opportunities there are for the use
of leisure, and what additional opportunities, if
any, might well be made available.

It should be said at once that it is not the pur-
pose or the desire of this Committee to teach peo-
ple how to play or how to improve themselves,
nor would we presume to prescribe how people
should use their leisure. The purpose of these
hearings is to ascertain not what people ought to
do with their leisure but what they want to do
with it. Leisure time by definition is free time.
Any sense of obligation to do anything other than
what one’s own tastes and interests invite is a
denial of the very essence of leisure. The Com-
mittee hopes 'through these hearings to make

418 ..

 

opportunities that may be
needed by our citizens, espe-—’
cially those activities which
depend for their satisfaction on the collective pro~
vision of public facilities such as museums, parks:
aiid libraries, or on the resources of private lei-
sure time agencies, which it is beyond the ability
of the individual to provide for himself.

I am sure I speak for the Committee in saying
that while in our opinion there is a certain time-
liness about the consideration of this topic at this
present moment of industrial change, there is
nevertheless a touch of bitter and ironic inappro—
priateness because of the fact that the leisure of
hundreds of thousands of people today is en~
forced leisure through inability to secure employ-
ment. I would not want these hearings to start on
any complacent note—as if in a sound and healthy
condition this community were sitting down to
consider further opportunities for its citizens. A
museum is no substitute for bread and a play-
ground is not a roof against a winter sky. I do
not care to be a party to any attempt to provide
an ornamented facade for a social system that
cannot find work for its people. The leisure that
we are talking about is not the "leisure of unem—
ployment. The enjoyment of true leisure de-
pends not only upon having a job, but also upon
an adequate income from the job, and upon a
sense of security in the job. At the very outset
of these hearings, therefore, and so that there
may be no mistake as to how we rate the im-
portance of this problem of leisure time, I would
like to say on behalf of the Committee that un-
less we can solve the far greater problem that

(Continued on page 444)

Leisure—An Interpretation

By NICHOLAS MURRAY BUTLER, PhD.
President, Columbia University

NE 05‘ THE most obvious objects of life is to
0 learn how to live. That means two things,
first that you must make life physically
possible by such compensated effort as will pro'
vide the necessities of physical existence and
comfort for yourself and those dependent on you,
and second, that you will seek to find and to make
opportunity to use your human abilities in larger
and non-material ways and fashions both for your
own satisfaction and for the good of your kind.

We call the first work, and we call the second
leisure. There is a great difference between lei-
sure and unemployment. Unemployment means
an absence of the first, work, and it destroys the
basis for real leisure. It merely fills up the hours
of the day with anxiety and worry, and so long
as work is not available leisure is impossible be-
cause leisure is the outgrowth and accompani~
ment of successful work.

If one is an animal he does not have any leisure
except, I suppose, the time spent in sleep, if that
be leisure; but a human being has all these capa—
bilities and possibilities and becomes increasingly
human as he finds opportunity for their manifes—
tation and enjoyment. An immense mass of the
population of our modern world has known very
little of leisure. Their work—the first of these
two aSpects of life—has occupied most or all of
their hours, and what little period might have
been given to leisure has really been spent in
recovering from fatigue.

Now we have come to a point where the in-
terest of the intelligent
mass of mankind is fo«
cused on so raising the
standard of living that,
first, work will be proper
1y remunerated and sys-
tematically provided, and
second, that leisure will be
offered, together with in—
dication and guidance as

Dr. Butler in his introductory remarks said
he felt the best use he could make. of the
opportunity given him to speak would he
to offer an interpretation of the philon
sophic framework of the picture the Com-
mittee was attempting to paint, and to out-
line and interpret briefly a few of the
fundamental principles which in his esti-
mation are controlling in the existing
social, economic and political order.

to how it may best be used. One of the physical
characteristics of leisure is that it involves the
rest and relaxation of the nervous system. The
strain on the nerves of a brain worker of any
kind, for example, is very serious and very
severe during the hours of occupation, whether
they are long or short. True relaxation, there-
fore, in his case, should involve relaxation that
may take the form of physical exercise or games.
It may take the form of light occupation of some
non-serious kind, working in a garden with flow-
ers, trees or vegetables. It may involve the read—
ing of books, hearing good music, or visiting
great collections of art and expanding the field
of interest and activity.

Take this city of New York for example, where
one of the most significant sights is to see the
crowds of people from all over this metropolitan
city and its vicinity who pour into the Museum
of Art and the American Museum of Natural
History on Sundays and holidays. They are oc-
cupying leisure in increasing their interest in
either Nature or art, instructing their children, or
following up some new discovery of which they
have read in the newspapers.

Intellectual Guidance Needed

What is exceedingly important, most impor—
tant just now, is that the hand worker should
not only be offered leisure and given opportunity
for leisure but he should be helpfully guided in
its interesting and helpful use. That means out-
door interest, sports and
occupations of various
kinds, as well as those
which already have been
mentioned as m ak i ng
direct appeal to the brain—
worker.

VVe need increased em—
phasis on the intellectual
guidance of our adult

419

420 LEISURE—AN INTERPRETATION

population. As I have pointed out publicly at
great many times, the average human being seems
to reach the climax of his intellectual activity at
about twenty—three or twenty-four years of age,
and very few individuals continue to grow intel--
lectually after the age of forty. If one crosses
the age of forty with a rising curve of intellectual
activity, he will probably go on growing for the
remainder of his life, but unfortunately the in-
tellectual curve for the great proportion of the
population reaches the ground long before that
age. This indicates the field to be occupied by
what we call adult education. Adult education
does not mean going to school or even following
any very rigorous program of instruction. W hat
it means is guidance from competent sources as to
one’s systematic reading, as to one’s standard of
judgment in art, science and literature, and as to
one’s occupations in either work or leisure.

The exercise of this guidance must be very
carefully considered and very carefully offered.
It would be foolish to offer a list of books to a
man who had been toiling for six or seven hours
in a mine. His natural desire would be for the
open air and it would be there that he would
naturally wish to seek his relaxation.

One great trouble heretofore has been the com-
paratively few hours that physical workers have
had for relaxation. For the most part they have
cared little for anything except rest during those
hours. In New Yorl. City and perhaps in other
great cities, you may notice that among the toil-
ers it is the evening newspapers that are read.
The reason is simple. These men and women
have just time for their coffee or milk in the
morning before they rush off to work. It is only
in the evening that they have time to read even a
newspaper. This is true in all the great industrial.
centers. Yet it is in the morning newspapers that
one gets the most complete details of the im-
portant news of the world. Therefore, the man
or woman who has not enough leisure to see the
morning newspapers may never get a full under-
standing of many very important events.

Factors Affecting Interest in Reading

Moreover, it is very interesting to see how cur-
rent happenings affect the interest and the read-
ing of the population and how quickly they affect
it. The Director of the New. York Public
Library, Mr. Anderson, told me recently that
following legislation at Washington last spring
there had been enormous demands in our public

library here for books upon brewing. People who
had never thought of reading about brewing
wanted to read about it because of the new legis-
lation. A change of policy upon the part of the
Government which had naturally been reported
in the press had aroused and evoked a new inter-
est in many people.

Indeed, few things are more interesting than
to visit the New York Public Library, or better
yet the branch libraries scattered through this
city, and to see what men and women are reading
in the evening. You will find them reading the
most extraordinarily diverse sorts and kinds of
literature. One will be consulting an encyclopedia
another will be reading up on what is happening
in Germany, another will be interested in Italy.
another in scientific invention, another will be
asking for some best seller among the works of
fiction, and if you will stand for an hour in one
of those branch libraries, you will get a cross»
section of the interest of the average part of our
population as it reflects itself in the desire to read
under the conditions of today.

The Cinema

Some people find relaxation, and very properly,
in the cinema, and with the new leisure the cine--
mas will be enormously patronized. It is very im-
portant for that reason that the standard of
cinema production should be very much higher
than it has been. For the one person who will
read a book about Disraeli or Hamilton or Vol-
taire, thousands will go to see George Arliss por-
tray them and will get an insight into history, into
personality, into happenings of importance that
they could not get in hours or days of reading.
They will get it in an hour or two under most
agreeable circumstances, but they must not be
tempted so much as they now are by cinemas that
are vulgar and debasing in the highest degree and
are having a most injurious effect upon the young
of this land in its every part.

Group Organizations Important

Then there are people who seek a social expres~
sion apart from their work, tendency to join into
groups, to make organizations for some definite
purpose, but the indefinite purpose of which is
really controlling is social contact with your fel-
low men. All sorts and kinds of organizations of
this sort exist in the United States.

Then we have in every town Rotary clubs,
Kiwanis clubs and other similar organizations, the

LEISURE—AN INTERPRETATION 421

effect of which is to draw
out one’s interest in his
fellow man, to draw him
out of his individualistic
selfishness and give him
some concern for what is
happening to his fellows.
That is a most admirable
use of )leisure, and you
may be interested to know,
as a concrete example of
what is possible, of one of
the policies of the Car-
negie Endowment for International Peace, for ex-
ample. That body has organized all over the
United States international relations clubs com-
posed, of young people and older people who meet
once a week or twice a week to read something
or discuss something bearing upon the interna
tional relations of the world, upon peace, upon
the monetary problem, upon tariffs, upon any of
the things which are engaging the attention of in-
telligent people everywhere, and a great many peo—
ple, in fact tens of thousands of them, find in that
a very interesting and attractive use of a certain
amount of their leisure.

Now that is an idea which can be multiplied.
There is no reason why, without any regard to
political preferences or affiliations, there should
not be discussion clubs by the scholar over this
land for the study and debate of all sorts and
kinds of problems of public interest which are
not necessarily political but which may be social
or economic.

The purpose of it all is to make the individual
more socially-minded, to get him out of himself,
to relieve him from the burden of his work, and
to make him feel that there is another side to life
which has in it attractiveness and companionship
and pleasure.

Of course men and women differ enormously
in their response to suggestions and directions.
Some are very easily fatigued and make very
slight response even to a strong invitation. Their
use of leisure is very apt to degenerate into mere
laziness. Others will show a great response in
many cases. In that case leisure becomes not only
interesting in itself but vastly increases the inter-—
est and capacity for work.

Leisure and Work

I should like to emphasize the fact that in my
judgment a man who understands the real use

“For all of us alike, employed and unem-
ployed, want a new kind of recreation that
shall engage more of the whole man’s in-
terest than is liable to be aroused by a
game, a show, or what We significantly call
a ‘pastime.’ It is the whole man that must
be catered for—his body, by exercises of
a kind that will do more than keep him
‘fit’ for something else; his mind, by in-
terests that absorb him so fully that he
will never be at a loss what to do.”———-A.
Barratt Brown, President of Ruskin Col-

lege, Oxford, in “Education for Leisure,”
Hibbcrt Journal, April 1933.

and enjoyment of leisure
is a far better worker than
the man who does not, and
there is one truth which.
Americans in particular
find it very, very difficult
to grasp, and that is that
while no man can do
twelve months’ work in
twelve, he can do it very
well in nine or ten. A man
who works nine months,
measured in hours, and
has fruitful and enjoyable leisure for three, meas—
ured in hours, will do more that is worth doing in
a year’s time than he who works twelve months
with no leisure at all. In other words, properly
used leisure increases the capacity for useful and
productive work. When men get that into their
heads they will see the basis of a new argument
for shorter hours of labor. That argument is not
that shorter hours of labor will result in less work
being done, but that it will result either in more
work being done, or in the same work being
better done.

We have a long way to go in dealing with this
question, because there are parts of our own
country and other countries in which the standard
of living is still far below what it should be. This
standard of living cannot be raised all at once, but
nevertheless it should be our object to raise it by
all means in our power, and certainly to remove
any obstacles, governmental or other, which may
now stand in the way of its'being raised. One
great obstacle to the freer movement of interna
tional trade, which freer movement would be of
such benefit to the pe0ple of the United States
and to many other peoples as well. is that the,con-
dition of the workers in some lands is still so very
low as to make it quite incommensurable with the
condition which we have in mind for our workers
of today and tomorrow. This is an international
problem of large importance; it will not down
and must be solved by the generation upon which
we have now entered.

Use of Leisure in Other Countries

This problem of the use of leisure has been at-
tracting the attention, the vigorous attention, of
the newer governments of the world. The new
government of Italy, for example, has developed
a most extraordinarily brilliant program for the
interesting and enjoyable use of leisure on the

422 LEISURE—AN INTERPRETATION

part of both children and adults, and that gov-
ernment offers guidance, local in character, of
many sided variety, to school children and to
older people, as to how they may healthfully and-
pleasantly, either out of doors or indoors, make
use of the leisure which is afforded them.

The German people have long had their way of
dealing with this problem. They began with phy-
sical exercise. Their Turnverein years and years
ago, of which almost every youth was a member,
were part of their attempt to offer something that
would be social, physically advantageous, and it-
self interesting.

The French have never done so much, but they
are beginning now to see the effect in Italy and
in Germany of what those peoples have done, and
they are casting around for ways and means to
adopt' a program of their own.

The British, like ourselves, are dealing with the
problem now in serious and practical fashion and
along very much the same lines that are pro-
jected and advocated in this country and along very
much the lines which I feel quite confident will
be presented to this committee by those who are
very competent to speak upon individual phases
of this problem.

But the fundamental fact to be grasped is that
work and leisure are two parts of one and the
same thing, and that one and the same thing is an
interesting and a useful life. He who does not
work loses one of the greatest of life’s enjoy—
ments, and he who has no adequate leisure and no
knowledge of how to use that leisure is deprived
of life’s greatest satisfaction.

Following the formal presentation of Dr. But—
ler’s testimony members of the Committee asked
him a number of questions.

MR. FOSDICK: Dr. Butler, in one of your re-
ports to the trustees of Columbia, you voiced the
opinion that it was the duty of the schools to train
for leisure as an important obligation, perhaps a
more important obligation than vocational train-
ing. I don’t know that you recall that particular
statement, but I was wondering if you have any
opinion on that point.

DR. BUTLER: I do not recall the precise dis.
cussion but the idea is perfectly familiar. Train-
ing for vocation is relatively simple. Training for
leisure is pretty difTicult, and it requires for its
fullest success the ‘c00peration of home and

school, and the school that overlooks sowing the
seeds of a proper use of an obtainable leisure has
done only part of its work.

I feel quite strongly that leisure develops into
laziness unless the human being has got some no-
tion of how he wants to enjoy himself, and that
should be his own way, not one imposed on him
by anybody else. But if he likes physical exercise,
if he likes games, if he likes going to the mu-
seums, if he likes going to the cinema, or hearing
lectures, or listening to music, open his mind to all
of these things.

MR. FOSDICK: Along that same line, as you
know, there is considerable attack, on grounds of
economy, against subjects in school curricula that
are now called “fads,” such as music, drama, art
and physical education. They are under attack,
and I sUppose in this pressure for economy they
are the first things to be lopped off. They are
being lopped off, as you know. I wonder if you
would care to express an opinion on that.

DR. BUTLER: Well, not dogmatically or finally.
That there can be a very far-reaching and im—
portant reconstruction of the program of studv
which has grown Up in the last twenty-five years.
I certainly believe, but it can be done without de-
priving the pupils of tomorrow of any of these
elementary and fundamental subjects of human
interest. As long ago as my school days I had
some of them, but nothing like the extent or the
cost of today.

DR. HAROLD G. CAMPBELL: Do you think, Dr.
Butler, that these things are properly called “fads
and frills”? ‘The things that are usually so de-
nominated are they frills of education or are the}
essentials of education?

DR. BUTLER: Almost everything depends on
the way they are treated and presented. I could
present arithmetic so it Would be a fad and f rill.

MR. FOSDICK: You spoke very interestingly of
what some other national governments are doing
in the field of leisUre time, such as Italy, Ger-
many, some of the others. Would you have any
suggestions to make as to what the Federal Gov--
ernment here in the United States could or should
do in this field of leisUre time?

DR. BUTLER: I shouldn’t think it was a Fed-
eral function. I should think it is the function of
the states and localities, especially localities, to
provide their own.

( C ontinued on page 445)

Our Leisure Thinking

By
NEWTON D. BAKER

HE PROBLEM of leisure is acute at the moment,
but I fancy your Committee’s inquiry is not
limited to the unusual leisure that comes in

time of unemployment, but is rather the constant
problem of the use of leisure at all times, because
we always have some leisure and we make either
a helpful or an unhelpful use of it.

I think the problem has grown very much more
serious in the United States in recent years, and
although your Committee is a New York Com-
mittee, the problem has ceased to be local in the
sense that it used to be. One of the striking
things about our country is that it has practically
become an urbanized country. Not merely have
more than a majority of our people undertaken
to live in cities and towns, but the good road, the
automobile, the telephone, the radio, have made
the country so much a part of the city that what
ever the resident of a city does with his leisure
is Quite likely to be done by the person who lives
in the countryside. Of course, the problem is
more acute in the city because some means of di-
version and recreation in the country are not
available to the city dweller.

In a large way, what I have tried to think out
in my own mind about your task was this—that
the whole nation has been for a long time, for
decades, concerned about the standard of living,
the so-called American standard of living, and I
think your Committee is really now addressing
itself to perhaps even a
more important question,
and that is the American
standard of thinking. What
kind of thinking are we goi
ing to do in our leisure mo-
ments? Nobody is concern-
ed with w hat anybody
thinks about in his occupa-
tion. His thoughts then are
dictated by his occupational
necessities. But when the

“I hope,” said Mr. Baker in his prelimi-
nary remarks, “it will not be supposed
there is any suggestion of an idea on my
part that people should he required to
use their leisure in any other way than
they want to use it. I think the whole
idea of leisure is that people should be
permitted to use it the way they want
to use it, and that the relation between
the facility provided for leisure and the
person who uses it ought to he in the
very highest degree voluntary.”

From his war-time experiences and
his knowledge of American life Mr.
Baker suggests one use of leisure.

occupation is over and our minds are unspanned
and we are free to think about whatever we want
to think about, what do we think about?

No psychologist has yet undertaken to make
the kind of a study that would tell us that. It is
a study embarrassed by very grave difficulty. If
you undertook to have a questionnaire on the
subject, I suppose a great many people would be
shy about admitting some of the things that all of
us think about, and I suspect perhaps the residue
of showmanship in all of [13 would make us an-
swer that question a little to our own advantage.
Perhaps it would be discovered that more people
thought they thought about Plato in their leisure
than any of us suspect to be the actual fact. So
such an inquiry would be very difficult, and yet I
suspect that our leisure thinking is the resultant
of our leisure environment, whatever that is.

So if we are surrounded by things which sug-
gest cooperative effort, cooperative enjoyment, we
are likely to have cooperative thinking in our lei—
sure moments, and as this is a country in.which
the success of our civilization depends upon our
capacity for cooperation, cooperation in our lei—
sure environment, which tends to make us ap-
preciate cooperative thinking and cooperative act-
ing, is directly constructive toward the national
welfare.

Now of course one of the characteristics of a
civilization like ours is the extent to which we
have come to depend upon
publicly and privately sus-
tained agencies for charac-
ter building. I just can’t
t h in k of what America
would be like if we were to
withdraw from the training
of youth in this country the
work done by the character
building agencies. In part
they are supported by pub-
lic funds, 'but the great boys’

423

424 OUR LEISURE THINKING

and youth’s work of this nation which gives him
something to do besides ganging on the street,
gives him an opportunity to do something better
than that, is sustained by private agencies main-
tained by welfare councils and groups of one sort
and another, but privately supported. And in a
time like this the importance of that is over-
whelmingly emphasized because particularly at
this moment one of the striking outcomes of the
NRA which you gentlemen represent has been
that it has accomplished with the stroke of a pen
a thing that a very large group of American people
have twice tried to do by constitutional amend-
ment and by Congressional legislation. We have
emancipated the child labor of the country.

Now that means that a very great many boys
and girls will have more opportunity to go to
school among other things, go longer to school,
so that the educational gain is very great. But in
addition to that, it means that there will be a very
great deal of juvenile and adolescent leisure for
which some provision must be made, and instead
of shrinking these character building agencies and
facilities which we have already built up and
upon which we depend to such an extent, they
must be expanded to meet this new demand. The
expanding task of the school is a very heavy addi-
tion to the public burdens which are almost in-
supportable in our subdivisions.

I think that is more or less obvious, but the
thing which I think is becoming increasingly to
be felt in America is the importance of a move-
ment which generally goes by the name of adult
education. Of course we have long known that
people who stopped getting educated when they
graduated from a school or a college, if they
stopped at that point soon became uneducated.
The tide of knowledge just sweeps past them, and
the only kind of education that is of any value in
this modern world is up-to-date education, so that
the boy and girl whose proud father sees .them
graduate from college with a sheepskin and in a
cap_and gown and thinks, well, Jim is educated,
probably doesn’t often realize that unless Jim
continues that and adds new cards to his mental
index each day that a new fact comes out—and
they come out every second of every day—in a
little while it would be just as well for Jim if he
had never been educated at all, because he is so
far behind the times that he doesn’t fit his en—

vironment at all.

The nature of the modern world, it seems to
‘me, is that it has given us simultaneous nervous

reactions. Everything in the world, all of our
thoughts in the world are simultaneous. I am
fond of illustrating this by the fact that there
were two periods in our history when we would
have had a war with Great Britain if there had
been an Atlantic cable or a wireless. One side or
the other got mad at something the other did and
sent a hasty message, which took three weeks to
get to England. It thoroughly outraged and an-
gered British sentiment and they got very angry
and sent a highly tempered reply back to us. But
by the time it got here, we had cooled off, and so
we sent a very conciliatory message in reply.
Well, by the time that came back after three
weeks, we were cooled off again, and so the mo-
ment of meditation, the lapse of time between
tempers saved a situation which, if there had been
a possibility of simultaneous anger on the part of
those two peoples, would have led to war.

Now all those automatic opportunities for medi-
tation are withdrawn. If we get mad at another
country now, they know it probably by the clock
before we do, particularly if it is a country to the
east of us. So that we live in an atmosphere of
simultaneous emotion on the part of masses. In-
stead of our government getting provoked and
having it gradually spread out from Washington
to Baltimore and then to New York, ultimately
as far as Cleveland or St. Louis, it is in every
place at the same time, and we are now living in a
world in which public opinion is completely
dominant. Public officials, no matter what form
of government under which they live, must re-
spond to the pressure of public opinion because it
is instantaneously mobilized and is overwhelm-
ingly powerful in its mass expressions. I suppose
only occasionally from now on will anybody be
born who is either great enough or stolid enough
to resist a real, no matter how wild it may be, but
a real wave of public opinion.

Well, in a world that is like that and where the
cost of improvident action is so great, where the
whole civilization is at stake, if wrong action is
taken it is of course of the highest importance
that purely as a social institution we should train
ourselves to think before we melt ourselves into
the mass of emotion which expresses public
opinion.

Now there is one very happy circumstance
about all this. I think we all greatly underesti-
mate the desire of people to think. The war ex-
perience has been mentioned and I want to refer
to it, too. I am sure nobody in this room is mis-

OUR LEISURE THINKING 425

led by the Chairman’s very
gracious reference to my
part in that. The Chairman
of this Committee was the
person who formulated and
executed the great program
of recreational opportunity
and activity for the Ameri-
can Army, and of course it
was the most striking con-
tribution which America
made to the war. Up to
that time the leisure time of
soldiers had always been a time of peril and dan-
ger. They were surrounded by every inducement
to misconduct and almost no opportunity for
wholesome behavior.

When the war was over, we had gotten through
the war and had had recreational opportunities.
and then came the great discovery and the great
surprise. VV e had an army of two million men in
France. Half of them had been carried there in
British ships and half of them over a period of a
year and six months in American ships. The
British ships, upon the Armistice, were immedi-
ately withdrawn from Trans-Atlantic service, so
that our soldiers faced the problem of staying in
Europe for an indefinite length of time with the
stimulus of the great undertaking withdrawn.
Before the Armistice of course every boy in the
army felt, and was easily made to realize, that his
job was to prepare himself for the day of trial.
When the Armistice came, however, here were
two million men in France, two million on this
side, who could in no case be quickly demobilized;
they had to remain in the army; two million of
them in France, gradually getting back to this
country. And what in the world to do with them
was the question that puzzled everybody! They
were in a country where the conventions were not
those to which they had been raised. Freedom
was at their disposal and leisure, and the disci-
pline of the harsh experience for which they were
inducted into the service was withdrawn.

I think at the outset the army people thought
the only way to keep them even moderately well-
behaved was to drill them all the time, so they got
them out of bed at six o’clock in the morning and
drilled them until they could scarcely stand up.
and then they took them in and fed them and let
them rest a little while, and as soon as they showed
the slightest recovery they would take them out
and drill them again.

nomic Forum.

“A new and tragic factor has entered
the relief situation—the re-creation of
the morale of those who have suffered
privation and spiritual humiliation in a
rapidly changing world. Leader after
leader serving the cause has offered in-
creasing proof of this. Not only is there
imperative need of meeting immediate
material wants, but a growing urgency
for salvaging the victims of the eco-
non1ic disaster who cannot at once be

restored to efficiency by shoes, shelter
and food.” Newton D. Baker, in Eco-

Well, to our very great
surprise there came from
the army, not from us but
from this great incoherent
mass of two million men,
not merely an insistent but
an overwhelming demand
for education. We had pro—
vided under the agency of a
college professor a little
modest educational effort.
so if there should happen to
be anybody among those
two million men who wanted to improve his lei-
sure he could have the opportunity, but it never
had entered into our heads that everybody among
the two millions would have that desire, and yet
that is exactly what they did have, and in our ef-
fort to respond to it, I think we did the—I say
“we” only because I love to associate myself with
these great things—we did, I think, the most
amazing piece of educational work in the history
of the world. We took a hospital which had been
built to receive the wounded of a battle which
was never fought—it was intended to house ten
thousand wounded men who were the anticipated
sacrifice of the next big battle, and there we built,
almost over night, a university. We went all
through this army of all the talents and found
professors in every branch of science and of
learning in the university at Bonne where we had
ten thousand students in every branch of knowl—
edge known in any university, where all the arts
are taught, including the fine arts, music, archi-
tecture, engineering, all the languages, every
branch of knowledge was taught in that university.

How completely democratic it was I think is
shown by the fact that in a room where integral
calculus was being taught the students were a
major, two lieutenants, and two doughboys, and
the professor was a doughboy. So the hierarchy
of rank which had to do with the military estab-
lishment was completely upset by the hierarchy
of capacity and ability. The man who knew cal—
culus happened to be a private soldier, and the
men who wanted to know it were majors, other
private soldiers, and lieutenants.

Well, that took care of ten thousand. Every
university in England, Scotland, Ireland and
France opened its doors for as many students as
they could take from our groups, and we freed
them and sent them there.“ Then we established
in every division and practically in every regi—

426 OUR LEISURE THINKING

ment a school of greater or less pretentiousness.

Finally, as the last effort to satisfy a perfectly

insatiate demand, we set up a correspondence
school in Paris, and advertised to those through-
out the army, to those who couldn’t be spared
from their military outfits, that if there was any
boy in the army anywhere who wanted to learn
something, and there was not immediately avail-
able to him the opportunity to learn it, if he would
write to the correspondence university in Paris,
the A.E.F. school, he would be taught by mail.
So, not because we wanted it, but because they
wanted it, this great army of two million men
devoted its leisure to consecutive study.

That demonstrated to me a thing which I ought
to have known, that the natural tendency of youth
is up; the natural tendency of everybody until he
gets too old to be youthful in spirit, I mean, not
in years, is continuous self-improvement, and if
any of us has a lowly idea of what people prefer
from what we see them do, we probably are do-
ing them a grave injustice. Most people who seem
to others to be misusing their leisure are making
the best out of the bad choices that are afforded
to them.

So I lay this down as a premise: if we as a
society will once really believe in the vitality and
natural aspiration of the race of which we are a
part and will make available opportunities for
handsome uses of leisure, they will be taken ad-
vantage of in such an overwhelming way that we
will be surprised.

I think another illustration along the same line,
though less conspicuous, is what has happened in
the last two or three years of unemployment and
undesired leisure. So far as I know the figures,
every public library in the United States has
enormously increased its service. Most of them
have had less money to employ attendants. Many
of them have almost had to stop buying books.
Many of them have cut down their periodical lists

to a very few. And yet I know no public library.

in the United States, and I have had some figures
brought to my attention, which has not in the
last two or three years successively year by year
enormously increased the number of persons who
have come to take out books, the rapidity of cir-
culation, and also the use of the library facilities
in the library itself. So wherever I have been
able by observation to test the desire of the
American mind, I find it goes as truly to an en-
lightening source, if it can find one, as the arrow

goes to its mark.

Now out of that I think perhaps I can draw the
only philosophical reflections that I ought to un-
dertake to make. I think it is a part of the social
duty of a society like ours, which has achieved
the great triumph which we have achieved in in-
dustry of liberating men from the necessity of
spending all of their vital energy in material pro-
duction, to give to the liberated an opportunity to
make handsome uses of their leisure.

I want to add only one thing to that. As I have
grown older in observing what efforts we do
make, I think it is pretty highly important for us
to realize that education, adult education and
adult recreation, if it is to be constructive, has to
have a certain element of consecutiveness and
constancy. just going to a Chautauqua lecture
and hearing a man make a speech on a subject
and going away, informs us but it doesn’t edu—
cate us.

We have tried two or three experiments in
this country to replace the discipline of neigh-
borhood opinion which was so valuable a correc-
tive of conduct in our village life when we were
a village nation. We have tried that by attempt-
ing to see whether we could create a feeling of
neighborhood among people, and our first rather
crude assumption on that subject was that if we
got a number of people together who happened
to live near one another, we could tell them they
were neighbors and they would feel it. And so
we used to post notices on school buildings say-
ing that if the people who live within four blocks
of this school will come around next Wednesday
night, there will be a neighborhood meeting and
speaking and crullers and cider. And when Wed-
nesday night came they would all be there in
their best clothes, all rather prim and formal,
rather noncommittal. They listened to what was
said, went out politely when it was over, and the
episode was ended.

Now we have discovered that people are not
neighbors merely because they live above one an-
other or below one another in flats or in adjoin-
ing houses, but that it has to start with a native
community of interest. And so we put signs on
schools stating that if anybody living near this
building is interested in astronomy, if he will
come around on Wednesday night, there will be
somebody there who will tell him about as-
tronomy. When those people come they start with
a common interest, and those people form them-
selves into classes, not merely to exhaust the
subject with the one lecture of that evening but

OUR LEISURE THINKING 427

to pursue it. And so all over the United States I
think we are creating this sense of neighborliness
by beginning with a community of intellectual
interest, and it has continued instead of being
casual and sporadic.

So in our plans for leisure development and
leisure improvement, I think the lesson we have
at last learned on that subject is of very great
importance, and it leads to this; that we ought to
continue established institutions and establish
others that will have the promise of continuity
and consecutiveness of continuous interest as the
basis of our whole plan for adult education and
adult recreation.

MR. H. S. BRAUCHER: I would like to ask
Secretary Baker whether he believes it is possible
to make public service attractive to the ordinary
citizen as a means of using a part of this in-
creased leisure? Secretary Baker, himself, has
given so much of his time in public service. Can
that be made attractive enough to the ordinary
citizen so that he will want to give more time in
various ways of voluntary public service?

MR. BAKER: I think I would say yes to that
in this way: of course we can’t allow the agencies
either of recreation or education to rest finally on
voluntary effort. They have to be in the hands of
people who make enough of a profession of it to
feel that that is their job, but every agency either
voluntary or public is enormously aided by vol-
unteer aid.

Now there are some people to whom that ap-
peals and some to whom it doesn’t. Young pe0p1e
come to me and ask how can they help. The
spirit of service is wide and bountiful. It is fitting
the man to the job or the woman to the oppor-
tunity that causes the trouble. They ask me how
they can be helpful, and I say, “Why don’t you
go to a social settlement and see what they can
find there for you to do ?” And it may be a com-
plete misfit. They may come back and say that
doesn’t interest them at all. Others say that it
does. Why don’t you form a group of young
pe0ple to study the problem of local taxation?
Well, taxation has become so complicated a thing
that only a few pe0ple can interest themselves in
it. It is beyond the scope of detailed investigation
by many pe0ple.

I think, if I understand your question, that if
Opportunities for association in public enterprises
and public service are open, that they will afford

opportunity for leisure time to a very large num-
ber of people and be immensely stimulating to
them and valuable to the public. I do not believe
however, that it is a universally acceptable
opportunity.

MR. Fosmcx: Mr. Baker, we have spoken of
the responsibility of the community. I suppose
by the community we mean for the most part the
city or the town where our citizens live. Would
you conceive that the national government has
any part to play in the situation? Is there any
function that it can discharge financially or other-
wise, or is this solely something for which the
local community must assume responsibility? I
mean the provision of leisure time facilities.

MR. BAKER: I think as yet it must be local.
My notion is that we have not yet gotten to the
place where the national government can do very
much more than act as a clearing house through
the Department of Education, the Commissioner
of Education, or some relationship of that kind.
Certain encouragements can come from the na-
tional government. The Children’s Bureau in the
Department of Labor, for instance, can be very
stimulating and helpful, but up to now I think
the problem is very largely local. I am not now
drawing the distinction between public and pri-
vate, but I am drawing the distinction of manage-
ment and support. I think up to now it must
largely be local.

“ ‘The whole idea of leisure is that the people
should be allowed to do what they want.’ This is
a magnificent if at present heretical idea. It cor-

' responds exactly to that fundamental conception

of liberty to gain which much blood has been
shed. The Government was not created to tell
people what to do with their own lives, talents
and enterprise, either in work or leisure.”-———From
the Springfield, Mass., Union.

“There is no use blinking the fact that the
worker with additional time on his hands is the

best judge of what is agreeable, useful leisure to
him or her.”—From the Syracuse, N. Y., Herald.

“This is an argument in favor of such guiding
of leisure as may be compatible with the princi-
ples of democracy and the traits of a highly indi-
vidualistic people.”———From the Worcester, Mass.,
Telegram.

Labor and the New Leisure

HEN ALEXANDER HAMIL-
W TON, in response to a re-

quest from the House of
Representatives, presented his
masterful argument for the es«
tablishment of manufacturing in the United States
in 1791, he based his proposal upon the proposi-
tion that the machine would virtually solve unem-
ployment. The cotton mill in particular, he
argued, would not only provide work for the per-
sons regularly engaged in them, but also afford
“occasional and extra employment to industrious
.individuals and to families who are willing to
devote the leisure resulting from the intermis-
sions of their ordinary pursuits to collateral labor,
as a resource for multiplying their acquisitions or
their enjoyments. The husbandman himself ex-
periences a new source of profit and support from
the increased industry of his wife and daughters.
invited and stimulated by the demands of the
neighboring manufactories.”

“Besides this advantage of occasional employ-
ment to classes having different occupations, there
is another, of a nature allied to it, and of a simi-
lar tendency. This is the employment of persons
who would be otherwise idle, and in many cases
a burden on the community, either from the bias
of temper, habit, infirmity of body or some other
cause, indisposing or disqualifying them from the
toils of the country. . . . .”

This argument of the first Secretary of the
Treasury was very appealing. A new nation had
been born in an undiscovered wilderness of un-
known and unexploited wealth. Man power was
lacking to perform the task of subduing the wil-
derness. The machine seemed to be a new power
in man’s hands, not only to increase his produc-
tivity but to provide continuous employment. The
possibilities of manufacturing at once captured
the imagination of the legislators and leading citi-
zens. So completely did the benefits of manufac-
turing overshadow any disadvantages that there
was no suggestion that the new order might con-
tain seeds of possible future demoralization.

But what Mr. Hamilton and the protagonists of
manufacturing did not foresee was that the eco-

428

By MATTHEW WOLL

Vice President
American Federation of Labor

nomic philosophy of domestic in-
dustry was not adapted to the
factory system. Without any ade—
quate community sanctions and
with a total absence of legislative
restraints, the first phases of the industrial revo-
lution both in England and the United States
were characterized by a ruthless exploitation of
human labor in an effort to secure the maximum
output- from the non-human machine. Further-
more, the new inventions of lighting buildings
early in the nineteenth century made possible
almost unlimited hours of employment. In 1800,
for example, fourteen to sixteen hours a day were
common and accepted. Eighteen hours and over
were considered excessive. Early records in Eng-
land indicate that little children sent from the
orphanages into the mills would work from four
in the morning to eight at night, and not infre-
quently leave their cots to trundle off to work
while another shift of children would ocupy their
cots still warm with body heat. Work was counted
as the chief virtue and idleness the supreme vice.

When Lord Shaftesbury, the emancipator of
industrial England, and Robert Owen, the social
reformer, early protested against the unhealthy
and immoral conditions of work, they were re-
garded at first with both suspicion and impatience.

In this country the hours of labor for factory
workers were equally long. Sixteen hours was
the common practice at the opening of the nine-
teenth century. A decade later the shortest day
was thirteen hours and ten minutes and the longest
fifteen hours and nineteen minutes. The general
rule was for the “hands,” as they were called, to
work from sun to sun. Both the hours and wages
that had prevailed in agriculture were carried
over into industry.

The First Protest Against Long
Hours of Work

The rise of the organization of Labor was the
first conscious protest against the excessive hours
which characterized so much of early American
industry. Their first demand was for shorter.
hours! In 1827 when the carpenters in Philadel-

LABOR AND THE NEE-V LEISURE 429

phia went on strike for a ten hour day, all the
other groups of organized workers in the city
came out in sympathetic support of the movement.
Around this struggle for the ten hour day there
developed the first federated movement of the
workers known as the Mechanics Union of Trade
Association. The objects of this union gives strik-
ing evidence of the early appreciation by Labor
of the value of leisure:

“The real object of this association is to avert, if pos-
sible, the desolating evils which must inevitably arise
from a depreciation of the intrinsic value of human
labor; to raise the mechanical and productive classes to
that condition of true independence and equality which
their practical skill and ingenuity, their immense utility
to the nation and their growing intelligence are beginning
imperiously to demand; to promote, equally, the happi-
ness, prosperity and welfare of the whole community—

to aid in conferring a due and full pr0portion of that ‘

invaluable promoter of happiness, leisure, upon all its
useful members; and to assist, in conjunction with such
other institutions of this nature as shall hereafter :be
formed throughout the union, in establishing a just bal—
ance of power, both mental, moral, political and scien-
tific, between all the various classes and individuals
which constitute society at large.”

The ten hour day thus became at once the cen-
tral issue in the early political movements of
labor. Here was an issue that could be supported
both on moral and economic grounds. In fact,
Labor insisted that long hours reduced workers
to the status of slaves and provided no time to
improve their minds. The burden of the argu-
ment was that shorter hours were needed to re-
cuperate from arduous labor.

S0 deeply had the philosophy of work, how-
ever, dominated the thinking of the early New
England settlers that when the ten hour day was
urged by labor it was declared to be “An evil of
foreign growth and one which we hope and trust
will not take root in the favored soil of Massa
chusetts.” Then, too, there was the familiar fear
of the perils of idleness lest it open “a wide door
for idleness and vice and finally commuting the
present condition of the
mechanical classes, made
happy and prOSperous by
frugal, orderly, temperate,
and ancient habits for that
degraded state, by which
in other countries, many
of these classes are
obliged to leave th ei r
homes, bringing with them
their feelings and habits

children’s game,

“An immediate problem in the shortening
of working hours is the use of our leisure.
The cultivation of the little gardens, the
the
poetry, the love of art in painting and
music, the reading of finer literature, the
quiet atmosphere of home and family, give
real and lasting happiness. Let us dare to
give play to our finer tastes, and, if we will,
live the simpler life.”———-Bishop
Lawrence, in Atlantic Monthly.

and a spirit of discontent and insurbordination to
which our native mechanics have hitherto been
strangers.” .

By 1840 public sentiment had been so modified
that President Van Buren, responsive to a threat
of political action by Labor, ordered the ten hour
day on federal government work. It represented
a marked advance. According to the best reports,
the average working hours in the fourth decade
of the nineteenth Century were seventy—eight in
the United States as contrasted with sixty-nine in
England and eighty-three in Germany.

From the Civil War up to establishment of the
American Federation of Labor, the main focus
of Labor effort was to secure the reduction of
the ten hour day in industry to nine, and in cer.
tain basic trades where there was a strong organi-
zation,‘ to secure by collective agreement a nine
hour day with two hours off on Saturday. When
the American Federation of Labor was establish-
ed in Pittsburgh in 1881, as a successor to the
Knights of Labor, it made the shortening of hours
one of its fourteen original principles. The first
objective of shorter hours -——namely time for
physical recuperation and recreation — having
been in part achieved, Labor pressed on to a sec—
ond objective, namely, an hour standard that
would provide maximum efficiency. This was the
move important as the corporate control of Amer-
can business tended to secure a wider basis of ef-
ficiency in management.

\Vhen the movement for the eight hour day in
1886 was blocked by the unfortunate violence in
Chicago, Labor rallied to support the Carpenters’
Union in their struggle for the eight hour day.
By international agreement May Ist, 1889, was
set for a great demonstration for this new ad—
vance in working hours. Since that date May Day
has been a great day of Labor demonstration,
especially in Europe.

The Shortening of Working Hours

From 1890 to 1913 the
average working hours in
the United States were
shortened from 58.4 to
53.8 or about 8%. Prior
to the war hours ranged
in American industry
from to 66%. In ad-
dition to the shortening of
working hours per day,
there was also a move-

comradeship of

William

430 LABOR AND THE NEW LEISURE

ment on the part of Labor for the shortening of the
work week. The goal of one day’s rest in seven,
which was a part of the definite goal of Labor,
is now an accepted practice in .most industries.
Early in the new century Labor raised the leisure
standard for the work week by providing for the
half Saturday holiday. In 1912 the President and
Secretary of the Army and Navy were ordered
to issue half Saturday holiday in the Army and
Navy, which was extended to all Federal em-
ployees in 1915. Through the efforts of Labor
a dozen states have made Saturday afternoon a
legal holiday. As a result of these years of effort
Congress passed a law giving Saturday half holi-
day to Government employees without salary
reduction.

Each advance made by Labor in shortening
working hours and the work week has been ac-
companied by a significant social gain either in
the improved health of the worker or improved
standard of work. Perhaps the most striking re-
lationship between the shortening of work time
and lengthening of work life of American Labor
is to be found in the striking facts which have
been gathered together by the International Typo-
graphical Union. In 1850, for example, printers
worked twelve hours per day and their average
age at death was twenty-eight. The Union cut the
working hours to eleven hours by 1868 and their
average death was at the age of thirty-five. By
1893 the working hours had been reduced to ten
and printers were living to the ripe old age of
38.78 years. After nearly six years of the nine-
hour day, the Secretary-Treasurer of the Inter-
national Typographical Union reported death
benefits had been paid out in the year 1905 for
567 members who died at the average age of
46.48 years. The following year a nation-wide
struggle for the eight-hour day was finally won
by the Typographical Union at a cost of over
$400,000,000. This victory which it is asserted
was the most expensive ever gained by an Ameri-
can Trade Union, was counted as worth the ex-
pense because it had increased the average age of
its members, to 53.17 years. Thus in cutting the
hours from twelve to eight, the printer has gained
25 years of life for himself and society has gained
an increase of 38,400 hours of production.

The Struggle for a “Cultural Wage”

To secure a balanced economy Labor urged in
the Post-War period not only a shortening of
working hours but insisted that as a necessary

corollary that wages should increase in propor-
tion to productive capacity so that workers would
be enabled to purchase the product of their in-
dustry for their enjoyment in the greater hours
of leisure. The emphasis upon a cultural wage was
an indication of the focus of Labor thinking. By
1925, in the midst of the Coolidge Era, Labor
made the five-day week the central plank of its
demands as an indication of its awareness of more
leisure as a part of a better balanced national
economy. The soundness of Labor’s position was
supported by the National Bureau of Economic
Research in its survey of Recent Economic
Changes from 1922 to 1929. In the report of the
Committee under the chairmanship of Herbert

Hoover, there appear these significant paragraphs:

“Closely related to the increased rate of production-
consumption of products is the consumption of leisure.

"It was during the period covered by the survey that
the conception of leisure as ‘consumable' began to be
realized upon business in a practical way and on a
broad scale. It began to be rec0gnized not only that
leisure is ‘consumable,’ but that people cannot ‘consume’
leisure without consuming goods and services and that
leisure which results from an increasing man—hour pro-
ductivity helps to create new needs and new and broader
markets.

“The increasing interest in the fine arts and in science;
the increased sale of books and magazines; the increase
in foreign travel; the growing interest and participa—
tion in sports of all kinds; the domestic pilgrimages of
some 40,000,000 motor tourists who use more than 2,000
tourist camps; the greatly increased enrollment in our
high schools and colleges; the motion picture theatres
and the radio-——all these reflect the uses of increasing
leisure.

“During the period covered by the survey the trend
toward increased leisure received a considerable impetus.
The work week was shortened in the factory by better
planning and modern machinery, and the work day was
shortened in the home by the. increased use of time and
labor-saving appliances and services.”

With the coming of the Great Depression and
the new awareness of the part which technological
unemployment had played in permanently displac—
ing wage earners, Labor felt it indispensable to
throw the weight of its whole influence behind
the movement for a thirty-four hour week. It
felt that unless some such drastic shortening of
working time took shape it would not be possible
either to re—absorb the unemployed or set the
wheels of American industry going again. Labor
thus favored the Black Bill for the 30—hour week
because of its conviction that this was a necessary
part of the national economy. With equal en-
thusiasm Labor has supported the Recovery Act
because it represents a trend and a social philoso-

LABOR AND THE NEW LEISURE 431

phy to which Labor has promulgated for a gen-
eration and more.

In a century, then, Labor, by its steady pressure
and its community leadership has witnessed hours
shortened from upwards of a hundred to thirty
per week and leisure hours increased from ten to
eighty per week. And the end is not yet! Such a
reversal of Labor and leisure hours is nothing
short of a capital revolution in our Western
civilization.

The Challenge to the New Leisure

Today more than ever, Labor faces the chal—
lenge to the new leisure with a realization in the
first place that its one hundred years of the ad-
vocacy of the shortening of work time has been
vindicated by the present concern about the new
problems of leisure. While

bilities. There is a new realization on the part of
Labor of the relationship of work to our con-
temporary civilization which has evolved out of a
long century of struggle and quickened by ad-
versity. The new age of leisure has given labor
a new outlook. Labor can assert again an ancient
religious doctrine that “Man does not live by
bread alone”—that there is something more than
earning one’s daily bread ; it is enjoying the bread
one earns. Wages should make possible not a liv-
ing but a life—Labor thus believes that leisure
has become not only the privilege but the neces-
sary condition of a full life for all. For this
Labor is not wholly unprepared in spite of the
fears of those who now enjoy their leisUre. For
a century Labor has sUpported our great system
of public schools as necessary for the democracy;
its slogan has been “educa-
tion for all.” Today with

‘workers at the outset f ocus-
ed their attention upon the
shortening of work time to
provide for rest and recu-
peration, and more recently
insisted upon a shortening
of work time in the interest
of a balanced economy, La—
bor today insists upon lei-
sure as a condition for the
development of a full and

“It is a sad commentary upon the civi-
lization of which the world has boasted
that its policies have resulted in wreck
and ruin, in sorrow and tragedy in all
parts of the world. The nineteenth
century has been regarded as one of
scientific discovery and mechanical in-
vention, but it failed to meet the social
rcquiremcnts of the world and the
spiritual aspirations of the people.
Material prosperity does not hold the
kcy to progress or happiness.”———Senator

William H. King.

equal emphasis, L a b o r
would add to that universal
appeal a new slogan in the
interest of the democracy,
“leisUre for all.”

In facing, then, the prob-
lems of the new leisure,
Labor would insist first that
we must recognize that this
new freedom from toil is

rounded life of every
worker.

Labor realizes that as we have moved from a
deficit economy into a surplus economy, that the
whole question of human labor in modern society
has been subjected to an important change. There
was a time when it was thought that the workei
existed to produce. Production had become the
end of industrial effort and the worker had be-
come the servant of production. In such an age
workers were treated as inanimate beings. It was
a commonplace to discuss the worker as a com-
modity or an article of commerce. Under the
Clayton Law, however, it was laid down that
Labor is not a commodity or an article of com-
merce. Employers frequently used the expres-
sion, “I work my labor ten hours a day or sixty
hours a week.” A worker is not a machine to be
worked—he is a human being.

Today, however, production has become our
embarrassment and work a doubtful virtue. What
we need are not more producers but more con—
sumers. Furthermore, the worker has become a
citizen conscious of his rights and his responsi—

not a temporary phenomena

of the depression, but is a
necessary part of our whole national economy.
\Ne shall never go back to the forty—eight hour
week! We move irresistibly in the direction of a
greatly increasing techn010gical deve10pment on
the one side, and a vastly increasing leisure
activity on the other.

In the second place, Labor recommends that
the facilities for the wise use of leisure time ac-
tivities of the people should be expanded and en-
larged. That means that all our civilizing agencies
of the community, such as the schools, churches,
libraries, museums and playgrounds should be ex—
tended to serve this new interest in leisure time.
These are not fads and frills; they are the very
basis of our new civilization. Prior to the great
depression, Labor had already given its earnest
thought to the enlargement of adult educational
and recreational activities; to the development of
choruses and orchestras, art exhibits, work thea-
ters and wider library facilities. Here we have a
clue to the direction of Labor’s planning for the

New Day.
(Continued on page 446)

Now That the Hearings Are Over!

As WE GO to press it is too soon to publish news-
paper comments on the hearings except for

a few statements which may have been in-
spired by the interest evoked by the hearings. A
number of extracts follow:

“If, as seems likely now, we are to devote less
time to work and more to recreation, or play, or
what has been called ‘constructive loaling,’ we
must give the matter intelligent attention. We
must provide sensible opportunity for people to
engage in sane avocations, hobbies.

“But these things have a way of working them—
selves out, after all. We don’t think the new lei-
sure justifies too much worry.”——From the New-
port, R. I., News. '

“The achievement of some measure of leisure
is a triumph of human endeavor. It is something
that the people have won by hard work, saving
and inventive genius. It represents a certain de-

gree of gain on the part of mind over matter.”—
From the Utica, N. Y., Press.

“Now the play hour moves up to a parity with.
the work how. Affecting the individual, it af-
fects the mass, and Kansas City has plenty of
new responsibilities and opportunities ahead by
reason of the new leisure. There will be more
play, more recreation and, in a varying degree.
more of cultural interests.

“The new leisure means baseball diamonds, ten—
nis courts, public athletic fields, public boating
and swimming, just as certainly as it means
greater use of the public libraries. There will be
more than ever a demand for summer outdoor
theatre, such as St. Louis has.

“This new leisure, which will be in the form of
free hours, or extra free days, comes to a com-
munity that not long ago built its entire concep-
tion of public recreation around Sunday after—
noons, with the occasional holiday. Now the ex—
ceptional becomes the ordinary everyday fact. It
is a big fact for Kansas City, something that calls
for consideration of residents as their desires may
lead them afield, and for the visitors from this
area who in increasing numbers should be drawn
to Kansas City in week-end or even midweek
visits. The road map is much more important

432

under the ‘new deal.’ That is not a theory, but.
something to which Kansas City should be awake.
Hard surface accessibility to the new Lake of the
Ozarks, for example, is of much more public
concern than a year ago.

“There are big economic questions still unan—
swered, but in the matter of the new leisure the
answer has been given. People in the future will
be less in factory, office and workshop and more
about. That means the highway system is more
important, the parks more vital to the community,
parking and the handling of larger crowds more
pressing.”——From the Kansas City, Mo., Star.

The following conversation was overheard be-
tween two people who had read in the newspaper
the story of the first public hearing of the New
York Committee on the Use of Leisure Time.

Said the first: “So they are starting to worry
about what we shall do with this extra day a
week that the NRA is going to give us. They
have to tell us who we should worship and how
and where; what we should drink and what we
should not; how we should vote and for whom,
and over the radio we get specific directions as
to what we should wear, and as Will Rogers says,
how we should brush our teeth and when, what
we should put on our hair and why, on what kind
of mattresses we should sleep, and if we have a
pain in the chest what we should apply, what
books we should read, what music we should
hear, where we should go, etc. And now, even
before the day of leisure is given us, groups are
getting together to decide how it is best for us to
use this day of leisure.”

The second person joined in sharply: “I should
like to have been there yesterday and I would
have told them that the essentials of recreation
are getting away from the routine that life places
on one, doing something that one doesn’t have to
do and that is not prescribed for him. Thebest
recreation for a college president would be a pick
and shovel, and I would like to tell some of them
so. I never get any fun out of anything that I
plan to do. It is always just fooling around with--
out any compulsion of any kind that gives me
rest. Then if I want to fish and play golf or just
do nothing I always feel greatly rested.”

When
Christmas
Comes

Bringing with it
Iaughterand gai-
ety, and scatter-
ing good cheer!

  
   

 

   

 

 

 
   
    
     

"a, ’41 MEXICO CHRISTMAS Is GAY!
for 37:” the whistles and play me tambourinesrensr
9’9 is coming to earth The King of The Hea"

Cancun“. an;

   

 
     

 

One of eight cords showing Christmas customs
of many lands published by the National Coun-

T IS A SACRED time, Christmas. It is a merr .
I y cil for the Prevention of War, Washington. D. C.

time, too, when gay decorations, cheery greet-
ings and happy ivoices make the atmosphere

one of friendliness and good-will.

There is a place for games at Christmas.
Among those which follow you may find some
which you have never used. Try them this year
in your Christmas party program:

When the Party Begins

Before the guests arrive conceal small gifts.
enough for the crowd expected, in various un-
lighted places, and from each run a string to a
central place not too conspicuous. Each guest is
given the end of a string which he unravels until
he reaches the gift. Gifts should be small, ridicu-
lous articles suited to the personality of the indi-
vidual for whom they are intended.

To match partners each guest may be given a
candle and a slip of paper on which is written the
name of some familiar song. (The same title is
written on two slips.) At a signal from the
l e a d e r , all candles are '
lighted, other lights being
extinguished and each in—
dividual hunts for the
other person in the gath-
ering singing the same
song.

Hunts of various kinds
are excellent mixers at the

For the game suggestions offered here we
arc indebted to a number of sources, among
them the Reading, Pa., Department of
Public Playgrounds and Recreation, the
Playground and Recrcation Association of
Wyoming Valley, Pa.‘, and the Christian

Endeavor World. The cuts
loaned by the Girls9 Friendly Society.

beginning of a party. A package hunt is always
great fun, especially when conducted as an in-
door treasure hunt. On arrival each guest present
is given a slip with a number and certain clews to
follow. \Vhen the clew is unraveled it will lead
the player to the next one containing the same
number. This will in turn give him a description
of the next place to go where he will find further
directions. The last place contains a package with
the player’s number on it and directions to return
to the assembly room. The distances should be
as great as possible. Favors, such as crepe paper
caps or inexpensive gifts, may be used.

Over a table or some other place a stuffed
stocking may be hung with a hole in the toe. Each
guest pulls a ribbon from the stocking containing
a note with directions telling him where to search
for a small gift or a small
stocking filled with candy.

Another h u n t always
popular is the Santa Claus
puzzle hunt. Large heads
of Santa Claus or any
pictures of the popular
saint are pasted on card—
board and cut in different

433

have been

434 WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES

shapes and sizes. The pieces may be hidden in
various places or they may be given to teams of
players. The purpose is to fit the pieces together
in the quickest possible time.

Candle Games

Blow Out. Each couple tries to blow out can-
dles held by other couples while trying to prevent
others from blowing out theirs. A player may
blow only while his own candle is lighted. If one
player’s candle is blown out it may be relighted
from his partner’s candle, but if both candles are
extinguished the couple is out of the game which
continues until only one couple is left.

Candle Bowling. Arrange ten candles on a
table in the way in which tenpins are set up. The
candles are lighted and the contestants blowing
from a fixed spot attempt to blow them out.
Allow each contestant two puffs and score the
game as in bowling. When all the candles are
extinguished in one puff a strike is counted; in
two puffs, a spare. Five frames will test the
lung capacity of every one!

Snuflers, Half the players are snuffers, the
other half candles. Each candle identifies himself
by holding one hand on top of his head. At a sig-
nal the snuffers go about the room, suddenly
touching some candle on the head and saying:
“Puff! You’re out.” If the startled candle is
speechless he goes out of 'the game, but if he be-
gins to make the reply: “No, I am only blinked.”
before the snuffer has finished his sentence the
snuf'fer goes out of
the game. This con-
tinues until only one
snquer or one can-

dle is left.

Paper and Pencil
Games

Candlelight. Pass
out a pencil and a
sheet of paper to
each c o u pl e who
form as many words
as possible from the
letters making u p
the word “candle-
light.” F o r e i g n
words or p r o pe r
names should not be
allowed, a n d t h e

 

Courtesy The Metropolitan Museum of Art

the time should be limited to between ten and
fifteen minutes.

Nut Craclz Game.

(1) Which nut is used to describe a pair of
Oriental eyes ?———Almond

(2) Which nut is found in every home?—
Walnut

(3) Which nut suggests a popular beverage E’—
Cocoanut

(4) Which nut bears a girl’s name P—Hazelnut

(5) \Vhich nut forms a part of the human
body ?—Chestnut

(6) Which nut is found at the seashore ?-—

Beechnut

(7) Which nut suggests the size of fuel?—
Peanut

(8) Which nut has a South American flavor ?—
Brazil-nut

Christmas Stocking Puzzle. The hostess pro—
duces a huge stocking made of course net filled
with small articles of all sorts. She holds this up
in plain view for a short time, then takes it away.
The players then write down‘all the articles they
can remember. A prize is given the player who
guesses the largest number. (This game may be
played by passing the stocking, each player look-
ing at it for a specified time.)

Unraveling the Christmas Stocking. Explain to
to the guests that although the word “stocking”
contains only eight letters, these will form at least
twenty words. Furnish paper and pencil and have
them find:

1. A small bed cot
2. Part of a wheel cog
3. A royal personage

king
4. A mile knot
5. Something to spend
coin
6. A useful metal tin
7. For a foot sock
8. An intoxicating
drink gin
9. An outfit for a
sailor kit
10. A poem set to
music song

11. What ‘birds do sing
12. To do wrong sin
13. Where dishes are
washed sink
14. Above a store
door sign
15. Another name for a
notch nitch

WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES 435

16. A heavy weight ton
17. A person who does not laugh or cry stoic
18. Used in a fireplace tongs
19. Something a bee does sting
20. Covering for body skin

A tarlatan stocking of candy should go to the
one who guesses the most words.

Cranberry Games

Each player tries to throw five cranberries into
a glass.

Guests vie in seeing who can string cranber-
ries first. Each has a string of the same length
and the same number of cranberries.

Players race carrying cranberries on knife.

Cranberries are rolled on the floor with a knife
or pushed with the nose. A glass of cranberry
jelly may be given as a prize.

Other Games and Stunts

Toy Shop. In this game in which three play-
ers stand in a circle made up of the other players,
there are three kinds of toys—dolls, wooden sol-
diers and blocks. Each player in the circle is given
the name of one of them. The three players in
the center take turns in calling out the name of
one of the toys and at this signal all the toys of
that name change places. The toy in the center
who called the name tries to catch one of these
toys as they change places. If he succeeds the one
caught must take his place; if not, one of the
other two remaining toys takes his turn at calling
the name of some toy. The same toy may be
called twice in succession to enliven the game.

Pop Corn Reloy. Fasten two very strong linen
threads to the wall at one end of the room. Run
the strings the entire length of the room. Put a
needle on each of the threads and insert the point
of the needle in corks of a good size. These are
placed on a table at the end of the room opposite
from the walls to which the strings are fastened.
On this table place two bowls of pop corn, each
having exactly the same number of kernels. The
players are lined up in two teams in relay forma-
tion. The game starts when the first player in
each line threads the kernel of corn on the string,
puts the needle back in the cork and runs holding
the kernel of the corn on the string to the op-
posite end of the room. After touching the wall
he returns to the head of his line and touches off
the next player who repeats the procedure. Two
people who are not participating may hold the
corks so that they will not roll off the table while
the runner is taking his kernel to the opposite end

of the room. The Slde wins whose players empty
its bowl of pop corn first.

Christmas Mail. In one corner of the room fit
up a Christmas postoffice where mail may be
placed. Provide a table with plain white post-
card or cardboard cut in the form of post-cards.
The table also contains crepe paper with Christ-
mas designs, water colors, crayons, pins, ink and
paste. Each player is instructed to make an
original Christmas card, writing on it an original
verse and addressing it to the person facing him
at the table. This insures every one receiving a
card. As soon as the cards are finished they are
mailed at the post—office and the player receives
from the postman a dissected puzzle to be put to-
gether. These are made by cutting the post-cards
into irregular pieces. The puzzles are then to be
placed in envelopes and each is addressed to a
player. \Vhen they have been put together they
are mounted on white cards and taken to the post—
office. The player who arrives first at the post—
office is given an award and the one who reaches
it last receives a box lettered with the words,
“A hint to the tardy,” which contains a tiny toy
watch.

Holly Circles. Draw a circle on the fioor large
enough to contain all the players. Outside of it
draw enough small circles (each to hold three
players) for all participants. When the game
starts all players are within the large circle. At
the sound of a whistle all run for a small circle,
then every one marches in a large circle outside
the small circles until the whistle blows again.
when they all try to get into one of the small
circles. In the meantime the leader has eliminated
one of the small circles, and the players left out
go into the large circle and try to catch any one
who runs through it. Eventually all of the small
circles are eliminated.

Favors and Refreshments

All kinds of interesting favors may be made
prunes, raisins, marshmallows, etc. Hard candy
sticks may be used for legs and arms. Raisins on
a toothpick give the impression of jointed legs
instead of stiff candy legs and arms. English
walnut shells may be used effectively when mak—
ing animals as favors.

Suggestions for refreshments include hot
chocolate with whipped cream, sand tarts shaped
like stockings, and sandwiches. Or there may be
ice cream in forms such as Santa Claus, a Christ-
mas tree, a stocking, Christmas cakes and coffee.

World at

T H E popularity of
ping-pong was one of
the high lights of the
summer recreation
program of Pasadena, California, according to
Cecil F. Martin, Director of the Department of
Recreation. Two tournaments were held, and for
the ninth consecutive year the California state
championships in ping—pong were decided in Pas-
adena. Classes were open for men, women and
boys with singles and mixed doubles. Trophies
were awarded to the victors in each class. So
great was the interest of the state tourney, which
attracted a record list of I 54 entries, that it was
found possible for the first time to stage a city
tourney. Seventy-two boys and adults entered.
One of the largest setups of tournament equip-
ment so far used in the state was necessary for
the city event. Sixteen tables were used simul-
taneously in the early rounds. The new civic
auditorium exhibit hall was the scene of the play

LAST summer the

Lancaster, Pennsyl-
vania, Recreation and
Playground Associa-
tion conducted in cooperation with the local New
Era newspaper and one of the public swimming
pools, Maple Grove, a free swimming campaign
for children up to ten years of age. According
to the plan worked out, all children desiring to
participate were given tickets from their local
playground. This entitled them to five free swim—
ming lessons at a_ specific time, the instruction
being furnished by the swimming pool and the
association. At the close of the term a certificate
signed by all three organizations was presented
to children who could execute a plain dive and
swim 20 feet.

436

Ping—Pong in
Pasadena

A Swimming Campaign
at Lancaster

 

A glimpse of some of the players and spectators
at the Ping-Pong tournament in Pasadena.

PHILADELPHIA’S
Tot Lot Playground
has a wading pool
built at a cost of
$15.00, not including labor furnished free by the
older boys and men of the neighborhood. The
foundation is made of brick salvaged by wheel-
barrow and hand from an officially demolished
old factory building on the site. The only cost
was for cement and stone to cover the founda-
tion. The pool is a foot and a half deep and 18
feet square. Water, supplied by commission
houses on Front Street whose back yards form
the playground, comes through a hose attached
to spigots. Outside these houses there is a pipe
to take care of the overflow, assuring a constantly
changing supply of water. A sprinkler stands
upright in the center.

A Wading Pool
For $15.00!

THE Quoit League
of Allentown, Penn--
sylvania, anxious to
continue activities dur—
ing the winter, secured the use of an old barn in
back of the Little Theater. Members of the
League cleaned up the barn, secured concrete road
patching and laid a Hoor, and whitewashed and
weather-papered the ceiling. The League now
has a club house of which it is justifiably proud.
In one end there is a clubroom used for reading
and the playing of games, in the other are the
quoit courts. Unused seats from the Little Thea—
ter have been placed along the sides of the room.
The old barn has become one of the finest centers
in Allentown giving a large group of men, many
of them unemployed, social recreation of real
value.

From Barn to
Club House

WORLD AT PLAY 437

A Santa Claus Village—The Palladium Pub
lishing Corporation of Richmond, Indiana, through
its Public Relations Department (Robert R. Reid,
Director) in cooperation with local merchants is
presenting a Santa Claus Village to which every-
one in Richmond and the surrounding communi-
ties will be welcomed during the holiday period
Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus, who will have their
own dwelling in the middle of the village, will be
assisted by twenty-five elves who will be seen at
work and play. Santa’s factory will be in Opera-
tion, and local merchants will exhibit toys in
special huts. Northern Lights, miniature sleigh
course from the North Pole to Richmond, are
other outstanding features. A miniature broad—
casting station will be in operation. Children will
talk to Santa Claus telling him of the things they
want for Christmas, and groups on Main Street
will be able to hear the conversations. The Christ-
mas project is expected to add much color and
enjoyment to the holiday season.

Work Projects in Youngstown—The City of
Youngstown, Ohio, has passed the necessary
legislation to- request $2,000,000 for work pro—
jects which are now before the State Board. The.
proposal includes $187,700 for recreation includ-
ing the development of five new playgrounds and
the building of four shelter houses and one swim-
ming pool. The project involving the pool and
one shelter house will be in the negro section of
the city.

For Your Christmas Program— Suggestions
and ideas for your Christmas program emphasiz-
ing good-will among all nations have been pre-
pared by the Women’s International League for
Peace and Freedom, 1924 Chestnut Street, Phila-
delphia. This pamphlet, one of a series of small
publications, contains suggestions for songs,
plays, games and other entertainment suitable for
school parties. The pamphlet may be obtained at
cost (five cents) from the League.

Drama in Los Angeles—Last summer in the
leafy setting of trees and shrubbery children’s
dramatic groups from any diHerent playgrounds
presented plays, operas and musical programs
every week at the Little Lattice Playhouse at
Barnsdall Playground and the Sylvan Theater at
Yosemite Playground. Each week different
groups were given the opportunity of presenting
plays prepared during the summer vacation sea-
son. The plays were witnessed by audiences of
children, parents and friends.

NEW—
REVISED EDITION

FOLK-DANCES and
SINGING GAMES

by Elizabeth Burchenal

and

Dances of the People
by Elizabeth Burchenal

President American Folk-Dance Society:
U. S. Member International Commission
on Folk ~Arts: Executive Chairman Na-
tional Committee on Folk Arts of the
U. S.: Author “American Country
Dances.” “Folk-Dances from Old Home-
lands," “Folk-Dances of Denmark.” “Folk-
Dances of Finland." "National Dances of
Ireland." etc.

New. delightful photographs of folk
groups themselves!

 

Available in Paper or Board Covers.
Out soon! Send for a copy on ap-
proval

H—HHHHI—n—n—I— —J-l_i——l—u—l—p———————————

G. SCHIRMER, INC.
3 East 43rd Street
New York, N. Y.
Send me on approval the new edition of Elizabeth
Burchenal’s
................ ..“Folk-Dances and Singing Games”
.... ..............“Dances of the People."

—'""""""'I

l

NAME ................................................................................................ ..
ADDRESS ........................................................................................... ..
CITY ............................................................. .. STATE ................... ..

_——— III-- III- — —_——————

 

438 A CODE FOR LEISURE

A Code for Leisure

(Continued from page 407)

thirty-five hours a week instead of the old sweat-
shop week of seventy hours or more, how to use
their leisure.

Under the law you can lead a man to leisure,
but there is nothing in the Industrial Recovery
Act, or the Constitution, or any legislation passed
by Congress, under which any committee, even
one appointed by Grover Whalen, can compel an
American citizen to use his leisure according to a
code. Even if Mr. Davis gets up a list of im-
proving books, the committee can’t make any-
body read them. Nevertheless, we believe the
committee will function well, on that fine old
American formula that every one has a right to

regulate the lives of other people.
——Courtesy of the New York Times

Letter to John Davis
(Continued from page 408)

A man plays poker once a year for about an
hour. “I don’t see,” says his wife, “how you can
waste your time night after night at that silly
game.” A woman, happening to pass near a
cinema palace, goes in for the first time in a year,
and doesn’t get home until almost seven o’clock.
“I don’t mind your having a little fun,” says her
husband, “but it’s not only neglecting the chil-
dren; it’s such a terrible waste of time.” What
we are driving into is that enjoyment is a man’s

own’ affair, and the use of leisure is a local issue.

 

What would the Committee on the Use of
Leisure do about Busmen’s Holidays? What
would they do about the gobs off the visiting bat-
tle ships who used to go riding on the Central
Park swanboat? 'Imprison them?

 

0 many an hour
I’d get
Of leisure
If the Conning Tower
Were set
This measure! F. P. A.

Courtesy of the New York Herald Tribune.

Ideas Wanted

(Continued from page 408)

many)? There are a few considerations, how-
ever, to be kept in mind. I enumerate them:
(1) Our larder is generally composed of only

the most prosaic staples. This precludes any in-
teresting baking or cooking ideas.

(2) We have books—lots of them —most of
which I have read and reread.

(3) Our vacuum cleaner has broken all speed
records for cleaning, thereby clipping off several
hours of gainful occupation.

(4) I have no spending money—the cinema is
thereby eliminated.

(5) I would be selfish if I found an occupa-

tion with a salary, for others need it more than
I do.

(6) Few of my friends are worth the cost of
the refreshments I serve them.

What to do?
PERPLEXED Parsv.
Forest Hills, Sept. 15, 1933.

P. S.—Please exclude any suggestions as to
charity work—I haven’t the carfare into town!

——Courtesy of the N ew York Evening Post.

The New Leisure

(Continued from page 409)

that it ever will be in an industrial and mechani-
cal civilization. There was a primitive simplicity
about it that defies duplication in the presence of
machinery.

The products of our own leisure in their own
way and without conscious direction tend to the
development of excellence as well as that which
is base. A notable instance is to be found in the
moving pictures, which in their better form have
risen quite to the dignity of a noble and inspir-
ing art.

The greater part of the time to which our
leisure is applied, the more numerous forms of
recreation and mass participation in it are proba-
bly neither noble nor base. They are merely what
the name implies and they have their value in
relaxation for tired bodies and minds. The pub-
lic, we suspect, will keep right on reacting to its
recreational opportunities pretty much as it has
in the past. And there is nothing much which the
experts can do about it, except to worry.

We should like to recommend, however, if we
may be permitted to assume the superior role of
“mother” for a moment, the value of just loafing,
not in front of the pool hall or the corner drug
store, but under the shade of an elm or in an easy
chair before a cheery tire. It’s lots of fun and

USE OF LEISURE STRICTLY INDIVIDUAL’S OWN PROBLEM . 439

ought to be indulged in oftener. But you have to
be careful about it. It is the way poets and phi-
losophers and bums are made. It may become a

habit. .
Courtesy of the World Herald, Omaha.

Use of Leisure Strictly
Individual's Own Problem

(Continued from page 410)

bility of saying such a thing with its evident ef-
fect on the working pe0ple the world over when
they read it? It is encroaching on the most valu-
able privilege to which a working person is en—
titled—and that is leisure.

If a person does not ch00se to use his leisure
moments for self-improvement (although I’m not
saying that a great part of the working public
doesn’t) it is his own business—his and no one
else’s.

A factory—worker, after a day’s labor, feeling
tired, fed up and disgusted is much more likely
to go out and get good and drunk than he is to go
dashing madly down to the library, narrowly
escaping death by any number of automobiles in
his eagerness to get to his beloved classics. That
is his privilege—of doing what he wishes with his
spare moments, be it noble or ignoble; and it is
perhaps the only privilege left to him in this
somewhat stereotyped world of ours.

To me, the most valuable aspect of the use of
leisure is that it enables one to express his true,
his inherent individuality. He cannot do this
while he is working because whether he likes his
job or whether he, with all his heart and soul.
detests what he has to do in order to survive, he
is not an individual but simply a mechanized being
who lacks that independence, the assertion of
which is limited to his leisure hours.

“A Committee on the Use of Leisure Time”—
any intelligent person who repeats this abominably
silly title two or three times will not quite know
whether to laugh at its childish implication or to
be intensely irritated at the malicious infringe-
ments to which his personal rights are being

subjected. MARY F. GALVIN.
——Courtesy of The Boston H erald, September 26.

Use of Leisure
(Continued from page 410)

some times, also feel their feelings have been very
well expressed by Miss Galvin’s letter.
The Mail Bag is certainly an open forum, and

At last -'SAFETY-

in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 

   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  

    
  
   

Patent Pending

 

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. SR-205

All exposed and con-
taCt surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

     
    

The suspension
clevises are re-
versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

 
   
 
    
  

  

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

    
    

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

 
   
   

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

440 IMAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

          

MAGAZINES

The Journal of the N.E.A., October 1933 _
How the Schools Educate for Seven-Point Lives

Parents’ Magazine, November 1933
Youth’s Opportunity, by Abel J. Gregg
Toys :1 Young Child Needs, by Helen Van Pelt

Collins.

Collier’s, October 7, 1933

Humanity, Common. Goes Up (The Children of
Gastonia, N. C., Begin to Play), by \Villiam G.

Shepherd

City Planning, October 1933
Modern Planning Legislation and the Small Park

The National Humane Review, November 1933.
Hard Times, Children and Animals '

Parks and Recreation, October 1933

Increased Activities During Times of Depression,
by Walter L. Wirth

The Survey Midmonthly, November 1933

Creative Leisure in Des Moines
Play Schools
For Free Time

The American City, November 1933

New Jersey Seeks to Answer the Leisure-Time
Problem

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, Novem-
ber 1933

The Enchanted Island—An Experiment in Play, by
Josephine Blackstock

The Promise of Leisure—An Editorial

Providing Recreation in the Township High School,
by Herschell Lammey

Volley Ball in the Required Pr0gram, by Lee
McCandless

Volley Basketball
Two Original Games

Child Welfare, November 1933

Three Christmas Eves—A Short Play in Three
Scenes, by Lucy Barton

PAM PH LETS

Juvenile Court Statistics: 1931

Children’s Bureau, Publication No. 222.
Government Printing Ofiice, Washington, D. C.

Price $.10.

Sixth Annual Report of the Recreation Division of the
City of Louisville, 1933

Annual Report of the Recreation Division of the Depart-
ment of Public Welfare, City of Miami, 1932-1933

Annual Report of the Board of Recreation, Parkersburg,
W. Va., 1932-1933

forms a valuable cross section of current readers'

opinions. A. H. CHIPPENDALE.
—Courtesy of The Boston Herald, October 4.

To the Editor of The Herald:

I have been much interested in two letters in
The H erald dealing with the subject of “The Use
of Leisure,” one by a Miss Galvin and one by A.
H. Chippendale. Their comment is helpful, but I
think in some respects misleading. It seems to me
that the subject would be clarified somewhat for
Herald readers if you could reprint the editorial
inclosed—from the New Y ork Times of Sept. 30.

JOHN NOLAN.

(See insert on page 410 for editorial)
—Courtesy of The Boston Herald, October 16.

 

Those Leisure Hours
(Continued from page 411)

Boss—Yes. A lot of the workmen are doing
that in their leisure hours. You just walk around
town until you find somebody excavating for a
new post office or something, and just lean on the
rail and watch the steam shovel. You can even
criticize the operator and offer suggestions.

Workman (very dejec’tedly)-—-—It’s no use. I’m
a nervous wreck trying to figure what to do with
my leisure hours.

Boss (with a sudden inspiration)—-—I have it.

W0 rkman—VVhat P

Boss—There’s an old high-wheel bicycle in my
attic. I’ll be glad to let you take it. Try it in
heavy trafiic. It’s bully fun and will take your
mind off everything

Workman (with an expression of hope) ——

Fine! That may be just the solution!
—Courtesy of The Sun, September 7.

Interview on Success l933 Model
(Continued from page 411)
In a very short time I only came to the office two
days a week. At the end of six times I was re-
porting to the boss only by telephone.”

“Was your employer pleased?”

“Well, not exactly. No matter what you did
for him he wanted more. So he insisted that I
take up fishing, surf—board riding and tennis.”

“Did you do it P”

“No. I felt it was a time to stand for my rights
and walked out. But we finally submitted it to

arbitration.”

“Who won?”
“I did. The Leisure Time Committee of my

BENJAMIN A. CLARK 441

Beniamin A. Clark

Municipal recreation has suffered a genuine
loss in the passing of Benjamin A. Clark, for
more than fifteen years Supervisor of Recreation
at Spokane, Washington. “Ben,” as he was
familiarly known to all of his colleagues on the
Pacific Coast, died very suddenly from a heart
attack while visiting the Century of Progress Ex-
position at Chicago during an early fall vacation.
Benjamin Clark was widely known, highly re-
spected and loved for his sterling integrity, faith-
fulness to duty and untiring energy.

particular union fOLInd that I was already loafing
as much as an employer had a right to expect.
But I wanted to be more than fair to my em-
ployer.”
“So what, Mr. Epperwaithe ?”
“So I took up fishing.”
“Courtesy of The Sun, October 10.

A Loafing Code

( Continued from page 412)

such questioning as whether he loves his children.
turns in his (forty-hour) weekly pay envelope
to the wife on Saturday night, or is really attuning
his soul to higher things and not just wondering
whether it’s time to go and have a beer. But
guilt cannot be assumed against him without
proof; and when Mr. Fosdick adds, moreover,
that he is not to be regarded as a recognized vic-
tim and raw material for any bUsybodies who
want to spend their time telling him what he
ought to be doing-——then, indeed, one begins _to

sense the first dim dawn of a new era. .
—Courtesy of the New York Herald Tribune.

A Corollary of the Codes

(Continued from page 413)

thing as purposeful idleness-—the fallow in hu-
man culture; for a fallow field is not an idle field.
It is a Field plowed and tilled, but left Unsown

for a time that the ultimate crop may be the
richer.

The appointment by Grover Whalen, city
chairman of the President’s Re-employment Cam-
paign, of a committee to consider what may be
done by New York as a community to promote

 

 

Give Pitching Shoes
In Gaily Wrapped
Christmas Packages

 
     
 

An ideal gift for followers of the game. At-
tractive. colorful (will brighten anyone's
Christmas tree), and of course Diamond
Official Pitching Horseshoes are the choice of
professionals and amateurs the country over.
Drop forged from heat treated steel. Ac-
curately balanced for perfect pitching. They
will not chip or break.

 
    
      
   
      

D I A M O N D
Official
Pitching

Horsehoes

 
   
     
 
 
 

WRITE

for catalog showing long
line of pitching shoes
and accessories rule
books, score pads, etc.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4m GRAND AVENUE -- DULUTH, MINN.

 

 

the most sensible use of this new leisure time is
a corollary of all the codes. Much has been done
already by the agencies that minister to the intel-
lectual needs of the many (the libraries, colleges,
universities, museums. institutes, settlements, &c.)
to the public recreational needs (thongh even the
playgrounds are inadeqUate) and to spiritual
needs. Steps have been taken by the Welfare
Council and the Adult Education Council to bring
information about the opportUnities already avail-
able. But only a beginning has been made in this
field of free time, whose borders have been so
suddenly and spaciously enlarged.

Aristotle said two thousand years ago that the
right Use of leisure is the chief end of education.
But he was thinking only of the few, not the
many. Professor Jacks said a few years ago, “I
name education for leisure as an outstanding need
of the present age.” The National Recovery Act
has made it iinperative that the nation, following
the example of New York City, give prompt,
serious and joyous attention to its new asset of
freedom.

“Courtesy of The N ew York Times, August 27.

442 ' AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

On October 30-31, the twenty-fifth anniversary
-of Mrs. Eva Whiting White’s service at Eliza-
beth Peabody House, Boston, was celebrated with
a program paying tribute to her educational,
social and civic work.

Mrs. White, in addition to her local service, is
well known nationally and has long been asso-
ciated with the leisure-time movement. From
1913 to 1917 she served as Director of the Ex-
tended Use of Public School Buildings in Boston
where she made a valuable contribution to the
community center movement. During the war
Mrs. White worked with War Camp Community
Service holding institutes for women workers.
Her work for six years as Director of Boston’s
Community Service represented another very im--
portant contribution to the leisure-time move-
ment, especially from the point of view of the
development of the arts.

In spite of her busy life, Mrs. White finds time
to lecture each year at the National Recreation
School

E. Dana Caulkins has been appointed Superin-
tendent of Recreation in Westchester County,
New York, to succeed George Hjelte. Mr. Caul-
kins, who was at one time a member of the staff
of the National Recreation Association, has re—
cently been serving as Assistant, as Vice-Presi-
dent, to Gustavus T. Kirby, President of the Pub-
lic Schools Athletic League of New York City
He has also been head of the Division of Recre-
ation of the Adjustment Service of the Ameri-
can Association for Adult Education.

In September Walter J. Cartier resigned as
Superintendent of Recreation in Charlotte, North
Carolina. He has been succeeded by Lacy Ran-
son, a resident of Charlotte.

What to Do With Your New

Deal Spare Time
(Continued from page 414)

Staggered Hours a Problem

Difficulties arise as soon as a whole nation is
given leisure time. Unless recreational hours are
staggered so that they do not come all at once
during week-ends, the playgrounds and amuse-
ment facilities of the country will become choked.

On the other hand, if leisure time is staggered,
as in Russia, the religious habits of the nation are
disrupted. That is only one of many similar
problems.

Amy Morris Homans

Dr. Amy Morris Homans, well known pioneer
in the physical education field, died in October
at the age of eighty-four. The first director of
the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics founded
in 1889, she continued as director when the school
in 1909 became the Department of Hygiene and
Physical Education of VVellesley College. Here
she initiated a five year course which might be
taken in conjunction with the regular college
work. Many of the graduates of Dr. Homans’
course are in all parts of the country occupying
important positions in colleges and in school
systems.

Possible repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment,
coupled with leisure might bring to America the
European form of cafe recreation, if this country
could become used to its slow tempo. In Paris,
one sips a glass of beer all afternoon, while en-
gaged in meditation and social intercourse. This
country has become habituated to drinking for the
effect, and people fear to sit still, but are driven
about by restlessness.

Conversation a “Lost Art”

Years ago in the evenings families sat around
a fire and talked, and played games. Today con-
versation is a lost art, and a hostess dreads such
simple pastimes. She suggests bridge, or a movie,
or an automobile ride, and these are not particu-
larly conducive to culture.

American sports are too expensive and too pro-
fessionalized. We have accustomed ourselves to
playing games requiring a considerable outlay for
equipment, and to playing the part of spectator
most of the time. If we could learn to appre—
ciate such pleasures as hiking, badminton, table
tennis, shuffle board, canoeing, fishing, volley ball,
intra-mural football and baseball, we would be
better off.

Sports should be turned into amateur channels
so that the majority of us will not be eternally
paying money to watch a group of hired hands
take our exercise for us.

Hobby Development Urged

Development of hobbies such as gardening,
mechanical work, dancing and the many artistic
and scientific avenues for creative endeavor should
be encouraged, as they give the American profit
as well as pleasure.

MORE TIME FOR PLA Y 443

In other words, the American must be taught
to abandon the motorboat for the cheaper canoe,
to became a player instead of an onlooker, and to
use his leisure so'that his body and mind will be
strengthened and refreshed, rather than for the
costly and more or less stultifying timekillers with

which he has diverted himself in the past.
-——Courtesy Boston Evening Transcript, August 12.

More Time for Play

(Continued from. page 41.5)

Martin’s in the Fields, London, a fortnight or so
ago, and elsewhere in England and Ireland, that
the time is ripe for the extension of the principle
of shortening hours and bringing more of the
idle back into industry.

More leisure will not hurt. Idleness or doles
or voluntary philanthropy is a mere temporary
recognition of the iniquity and injustice of pres-
ent monopolistic control. If liberalism now and
here should fail and if nationalism should block
the progress of the rights of man, another world
war vaster than the last would inevitably occur.
America may save the day by bold, courageous

action.
(Rev.) WYTHE L. KINSOLVING.

Leisure Time
(Continued from page 415)

gently has long been important. Many eminent
educators have wrestled with it. Constructive
ideas on the subject are not wholly wanting.

Meanwhile, reduction of the workday below the
eight hours is accepted by the business world as
a lesser evil, rather than a greater good. When
millions are idle, and forced to live on doles, ju-
dicious sharing of avilable jobs is both sensible
and morally beneficial. In an emergency it is not
always possible to think of ideals.

Yet society must study the problem of employ--
ing leisure time, for it is likely to remain perma—
nently. Technology is freeing man, and he must

endeavor to utilize his freedom worthily.
—Courtesy of The Chicago Daily News.

Time to Burn i
(Continued from page 416)

—some memory of great thoughts or Hashing
beauty—some permanent gain in his own interior
life; (3) Brings him into pleasant, c00perativc
relations with other people of like interests and
aims—through little theatres, voters’ leagues, un-

Three Distinctive Books!

 

 

Price $4.75

Order direct from
DR. H. W. HURT

THE COLLEGE BLUE BOOK
17th Floor - 2 Park Ave.
New York City

I The College Blue Book, III Edition

Standard Reference Book of Higher Education
in one place—findable at once—you have

the Basic Facts and Ratings of

1034 Technical and Professional Colleges
1250 Universities and Colleges

Indispensible for vocational guidance.

II The Influencing of Character

Bears directly on home, school, recreation. Result
of Research under Rockefeller Grant.

Ready November —— price $1.15, postpaid.

III Year Book of Aviation for Young Men

Ready Christmas

Remarkably illustrated
Price $2.00

NEW

v—VEAR BOOK or AVIATION

" FOR YOUNG MEN

 

 

444 SHORTER WORK DAYS EXPECTED TO PROVIDE BETTER CITIZENS

Read This Letter

"When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book —
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens

of times already. It is, indeed, the
-Pool Bible.

“(Signed)

“CAPT. Enw. H. MCCRAHoN.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo,
Capt. McCrahon was for seven years manager of

Spa Municipal Pool and Beach. St. Petersburg, Fla.

send For a Copy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoiiman-Harris, Inc.

[[4 E. 32nd STREET NEW YORK CITY

employed projects or other community activities.
People who follow this code will never be bored.

NOTE: This is one of a series of articles for high

school students in Scholastic, the National High School
\Veekly.

Shorter Work Days Expected to
Provide Better Citizens

(Continued from page 417)

ment that “the old-fashioned school teacher, who
knew that ‘the patient must minister unto him-
self,’ was brushed aside by the practical idealists
who were bent on showing young America how to
do things and get somewhere.” The Bulletin ad
vises as to the value of the present movement;
“One of the finest achievements of any civiliza-
tion is making an artistic use of leisure. America
has never learned this art. The doctrine of hard
work has possessed us from the beginning. The
early settlers had to work to live and the tradi-
tion has persisted. We have, quite naturally ideal--
ized men of action. Our so—called leisure hither-
to, has been filled with action. But there comes a
time when action will not suffice. There are count-
less problems which it will not solve, countless

 

pleasures which it cannot anrd. The most valued
and enduring things which civilization possesses,
from its philosophies to its cathedrals, have been
the fruit of leisure and ripened contemplation.”

“Spiritual regeneration and a new concept 0t
what it means to be an American citizen” are re-
cognized by the Oakland Tribune, while the St.
Joseph Gazette. feels that “the immutable laws of
decent human association, justice and good will
may flower out of the codes in some way.”

“Use of a man’s spare time for his own small
jobs.” including improvements about the house, is
suggested by the Brooklyn Eagle, while the San
Antonio Express suggests: “The public library
should be kept open full time and be supplied with
enough books, practical and cultural, new and
classic. The night schools should operate on a
convenient schedule and more such schools should
be provided. The University of Oklahoma—in
adding 40 new courses in 20 diHerent fields for
adult learners in spare time—has set a worthy ex-
ample. That institution has invited business men,
home—makers, teachers, clerks and machinists to
study civics, politics, travel and national traits,

creative writing and namerous practical subjects."

——Courtesy Daily Editorial Digest, Consolidated Press
Association.

The Public Hearings on the

Use oi Leisure
(Continued from page 418)
confronts this nation today, all this talk of the
satisfactory use of leisure is empty words.

But for myself I have faith to believe that we
shall solve the problem. And furthermore I do
not conceive that there is any just criticism at-
taching to an attempt to grapple with a collateral
problem, even if in importance it is far subordi-
nate. We are in the midst of gigantic changes in
our social and industrial life. More and more it
would seem as if the community must assume
responsibility for providing privileges and oppor-
tunities which otherwise the individual cannot
obtain. \Vith the growth of free.time, with the
lengthening of leisure hours, we have a new kind
of social problem, a new type of challenge to cre-
ative thinking and organized effort. As members
of a community, anxious that the life of each
individual shall be as rich and rewarding as
human intelligence can make it, we are bound to
think and plan about the needs of the new leisure,
and the methods by which men and women in
their after-work hours find rest, growth, satis-

LEISURE—AN INTERPRETATION 445

faction, relaxation— in short, an enjoyable and to
them desirable use of their free time.

In an effort to throw light on this problem, the
Committee has invited as witnesses at number of
men and women who have given thought to these
questions of leisure, and who have some knowl-
edge of what people want 'to do in their free
time, of what opportunities exist in New York
City for the enjoyable use of leisure, and of the
ways and means by which these opportunities can
be increased and made available to larger num—
bers of people. These men and women have been
asked to appear at these hearings to make state-
ments to us, to reply to such questions as may be
put to them by members of our Committee, and
furthermore to submit in writing any additional
facts, plans or suggestions which they may wish
to bring to our consideration.

In addition, the Committee invites anyone in
the city to write to us at our office at 61 Broad-
way, sending in any suggestions or facts or com-
ments bearing on this question of the use of lei-
sure time in this metropolitan area. If time per-
mits, opportunity will be given for oral presen-
tation, and those who have contributions to make
are asked, in order to prevent confusion, to send
in their names to the Committee at 61 Broadway
indicating what the nature of their contributions
will be.

Leisure~An Interpretation
(Continued from page 422)

MR. FOSDICK: You believe then that it should
be a local function here instead of national?

DR. BUTLER: I should think so. It is part of
the life of the community. Of course in Italy they
are organized very differently from the way in
which we are, but even there they have stimu-
lated the locality to make these provisions, and if
you go to the buildings in which the supervisors
have their headquarters, you will see that there is
a man or woman assigned to the direction of al
most every one of these ten or fifteen or so sub-
divisions. and it is that person’s business to see
that people get a chance to play tennis, to play
whatever takes the place of football, to use the
running track and all the rest of it. Then there
are others to take charge of lectures, of music and
other activities.

MISS JANE HOEY: Isn’t there any way in which
children can be trained in the opportunities open-
ed up for them?

School Activities
The Wational Extra Curricular Wagazine

Our Best Testimonial and proof
of unusual Reader Interest ——

. . . . the number of SCHOOL
ACTIVITIES readers has in-
creased 400%

depression I

d uring the

Many of our readers tell us that their copies of
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES are in constant demand not
only in their schools but at church and other
community functions.

Subscription Rate—only $l.50 per year
($|.25 Cash With Order)

THE SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUB. Co.

1013 WEST SIXTH STREET
TOPEKA. KANSAS

 

DR. BUTLER: I should say there the problem is
the general problem of sound education, to open
enough doors to a child’s interest to let him go
through the one which makes an appeal, and not
leave him entirely strange to something which
might have been his chief interest in life if he
only knew about it. If you open only two or three
doors to him he doesn’t know these five or six
others exist, and late in life he finds out that" they
did, and he is pretty regretful and rather critical
of his parents and teachers.

MIss WINIFRED FISHER: I should like to ask
Dr. Butler whether he thinks it is possible for us
to find means to encourage, we will say, people
over 40 or 45, roughly, to begin to participate in
new leisure activities, especially creative activities?

DR. BUTLER: It isn’t very easy, but it is ex.
traordinary how in this country there has been
increased in the last twenty—five years the attend-
ance of persons of that age at public lectures and
presentations, and at dramatic, musical, and other
events that are distinctly cultural.

Seventy-five or eighty years ago we had in this
country a very extraordinary development which
died out with the Civil War. That was the period
when a half dozen men, especially men like Henry
Ward Beecher and Ralph Waldo Emerson, went
about the country delivering lectures to miscellan-

446 LABOR AND THE NEW LEISURE

eous audiences not only in colleges and schools
but at social and other gatherings, and they pro-
duced a very profound effect upon the thinking
of the American people during the 1850’s, par-
ticularly down to the Civil War period. After
the Civil War conditions changed, and those par-
ticular individuals, and men of that type, had
almost entirely disappeared or had become inca-
pacitated by the passing of years for such work.
but there has come up in the last twenty-five years
a very remarkable development of interest on the
' part of adults to hear these subjects discussed.

MISS FISHER: May I pursue that a little fur—
ther and ask Dr. Butler if he thinks that the par—
ticipation of people of that age must be a listen—
ing or passive participation?

DR. BUTLER: Not necessarily. I think you fre~
quently have both questions and discussion which
are very illuminating, and of course I hope very
much that the creative arts shall come to occupy
- a larger part, that interest in art objects and in
music, in really good music will increase.

Labor and the New Leisure
(Continued from page 431)

In the third place, Labor would urge that in the
planning for these new leisure time activities and
in providing for more ample facilities that it be
invited to participate in this planning program.
Thus its knowledge and experience can be made
available to the community and the ends of this
new day more adequately serve.

In October of this year, there was unveiled in
Washington a monument to the late Samuel
Gompers, the leader of the American Labor
Movement for fifty years. His life and service to
the American wage earner spanned the period be-
tween the close of the old frontier and the open-
ing of this new frontier that we describe as lei-
sure. He who knew the old was not unprepared
to live in the new, for near the close of his life
he was asked about Labor’s goal; “What does

Labor want ?” said Gompers:

“It wants the earth and the fullness thereof. There is
nothing too precious, there is nothing too lofty, too
beautiful, too ennobling unless it is within the scope and
comprehension of labor’s aspirations and wants. We
want more school houses and less jails, more books and
less arsenals, more learning and less vice, more constant
work and less crime, more leisure and less greed, more
justice and less revenge—in fact, more of the oppor—
tunities to cultivate our better natures, to make manhood
more noble. womanhood more beautiful, and childhood

more happy and bright.”

\Vho could deny the elevation of spirit in this
utterance or the broad basis of inclusiveness of
this aim of Labor? Upon such a foundation all
men of good will should be able to agree. In such
a spirit Labor is prepared to join in building the
New \Vorld of Leisure.

MR. FOSDICK: That is an excellent stimulat—
ing paper, precisely what we wanted. We are
particularly happy to get the historical back-
grotmd which we were hoping we would get from
some of the witnesses. \Ve are very happy, too.
to get the recommendations at the end.

MISS HOEY: Can you tell us of any existing
facilities for satisfying the needs of labor for
long-time education?

MR. WOLL: You mean so far as leisure time
is concerned? Personally, I have tried to express
the opinion that in all of our educational activities
and facilities up to the present time, we have laid
undue stress on the philosophy of production, and
as indicated in the presentation made, with leisure
time becoming greater and greater and overbal-
ancing work time requirements, all of our think-
ing must embrace educational opportunities and
facilities for the leisure time occupation. So I
feel we are not following in the right direction so
long as we maintain our principal concern on
questions of production.

MR. FOSDICK: Has the American Federation
of Labor given particular thought to what leisure
time facilities ought to be added to those that
already exist—that is, is there a subdivision or a
committee of the Federation that has worked on
this particular problem?

MR. WOLL: No, there is no particular com-
mittee that has devoted itself to the study solely
of the question of recreation and time to be taken
up with recreational opportunities, other than
through the work of its educational committee,
where, of course, it has sought to promote the ed-
ucational opportunities among the wage earners,
not confining itself to occupational education but

rather to cultural education.
As I view this development of leisure time, I

find in it the opportunity of bringing about a
world culture and a world much more happy to
live in because it does give mankind the oppor-
tunity of enjoying the beauties of life and of God
and of Nature which under the old system ot
production the majority of our people have never
been able to enjoy.

New Books on Recreation

Complete Model Aircraft Manual

By Edwin T. Hamilton. Harcourt, Brace & Company,
New York. $3.50.

N CALLING this volume a “complete” model aircraft

manual, the author has not exaggerated. The book re-
flects the five years of research in every phase of model
aircraft building and Hying which Mr. Hamilton has
done, and a veritable encyclopedia on airplane construc-
tion is the result. Sixty-five models are described, in-
cluding gliders, stick models, solid scale models, built-
up non-flying scale models and flying scale models. It is
seldom one finds such clear and specific plans and dia-
grams, making it possible for the builder to progress
stcp by step in making simple gliders or elaborate flying
models. In addition to the eighty-five working plans,
there are seventy-seven full page photographs of the
models. Definite information is given on tools and ma-
terials and their use, and there is a complete aviation
dictionary, a glossary of model terms, with a dealers
list and model pilot’s log.

Busy Childhood

By Josephine C. Foster, Ph.D. D. Appleton-Century
Company, New York. $2.00.

N THE PREPARATION of the material for this book the

author has drawn liberally upon the publications of the
White House Conference in her discussion of the im-
portance of occupation and play in the deve10pment of
personality and charactei. Following this the book takes
up the play of the infant and the vigorous play of the
young child, describing in some detail the games and
activities so important for physical and mental develop-
ment. Toys, play equipment, social and dramatic play,
intellectual play and participation in family activities.
play during vacations, travel and special days are pre—
sented in turn. An entire chapter is devoted to occupa-
tions and activities for the ill or convalescent child.
There are two other [books in the series—Healthy Child-
hood by Dr. Harold C. Stuart and Happy Childhood by
John E. Anderson, Ph.D. ($2.00 each.)

Naturecraft Creatures

By Joseph W. Lippincott and G. J. Roberts. J. B. Lip-
pincott Company, Philadelphia. $1.50.

HE AIM OF THIS BOOK as outlined in the foreword is

“to guide in the collection and use of things one
comes across every day on walks in parks, in the fields,
in the woods and on the beach.” Many strange and fas—
cinating creatures are described and pictured in this
volume whose suggestions not only offer an outline for
creative activity in handcraft but provide “a grand ex-
cuse to get out-of-doors and nearer nature.” The book

is a delightful manual in the art of woodland and sea
beach modeling.

Handbook on the Prevention and Care
of Athletic Injuries

National Collegiate Athletic Association. $.15. Order
from Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft, Princeton University.

IN FEBRUARY, 1933 the National Collegiate Athletic As-

sociation appointed a committee consisting of Dr.
Edgar Fauver, Dr. Augustus Thorndike, Jr.. and Dr.
Joseph E. Raycroft, to study and report on the general
subject of the training and medical supervision of ath—
letic squads. In July the report of the committee was
publishcd. In it essential facts are presented in a sim-
ple but thoroughgoing way. It should prove a practical
guide to coaches, trainers and others who have had the
basic training in physiology and training methods. It has
perhaps an equally valuable service to render by pre—
senting in simple and concise form to college presidents,
high school superintendents and others the essential
practices in the prevention and care of injuries. Such
information should enable these officials to pass judg-
ment 011 the quality of work done by their coaches and

trainers and should offer a basis for a satisfactory pro-
gram of training and prevention.

Our Forests

U. S. Department of Agriculture. Government Printing
Office, Washlngton, D. C. $.05.

HERE IS A PAMPHLET designed to acquaint us with our
forests—-—what they are, where they are and how they
serve us. Wc learn, too, of the enemies of the forest, of
the values of timber as a vital material resource and of
the dangers which threaten it. In view of the efforts
which are being put forth at the present time to pre-
serve our forests, this booklet is particularly timely.

Lighting the Stage with Homemade

Equipment

By Jack Stuart Knapp. Walter H. Baker Company,
Boston. $1.25.

THIS Is NOT the f1rst .book to be published on stage

lighting. There are a number but most of them deal
with commercial equipment. Here is a book written for
the group just starting out, a group with little money
which produces only occasionally. It tells how at little
expense but with the exercise of considerable ingenuity
home-made equipment may be devised which will light a
stage effectively. There are descriptions, with diagrams,
of ways of making flood lights, spotlights, footlights,
border lights, strip lights and dimmers. Fundamental
principles involved in producing color effects and light—
ing are discussed. Such practical matters as avoiding
flre danger and storing lighting equipment are presented,
and there are suggestions on how to light a stage without
electricity. A bibliography of books on lighting com-
pletes this practical volume.

447

448 ' NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Linoleum Block Printing For the Amateur.

By Lyle B. Yeaton. The Yeaton Press, Los Angeles.
$2.00.

This book, with its concrete directions and direct
method of address, is an invaluable aid to the amateur
whose primary requisites for mastering the art of 1m-
oleum block printing, according to the author, are good
eyesight, a steady hand and patience. The book (115-
cusses first tools and material, then takes up step by
step the processes involved in making articles of many
kinds. Many attractive illustrations are offered.

Modern Ping-Pong and How to Play It.

Coleman Clark. The John Day Company, New York.
$1.00.

Here are answers to the many questions regarding
rules, strokes, Spin of the ball, equipment and other
technical problems. The book starts with a listing of
the benefits of ping-pong, discusses equipment, and then
takes up the various strokes. There are hints for tour-
nament play and interesting sections on ping-pong for
women and for boys and girls. The complete laws of
ping-pong, amended 1933, are given. Many illustrations
are incorporated. a

How to Help.

National Women’s Committee, Welfare and Relief
Mobilization. Free.

This seventy-two page handbook outlines social prob-
lems, describes briefly the social services needed to meet
them and suggests ways in which volunteers, board mem-
bers and contributors can assist the social program of
their communities. C0pies may be secured from Miss
Mary S. Sims, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York City.

Recreational Areas of the United States (Under
Federal or State Government).

National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C. Free.

Through the National Park Service of the Federal
Government it is now possible to secure a large map
showing the location of national parks, monuments, mili-
tary parks, and state parks and monuments. On the back
of the map the parks are listed and some brief informa-
tion given regarding the recreation facilities they provide.

The International Olympic Committee and
the Modern Olympic Games.

Published by the International Olympic Committee,
Mon Repos, Lausanne, Switzerland.

This pamphlet tells something of the history, purposes
and duties of the International Olympic Committee, out--
lines the conditions under which the competitors of the
Olympic Games are received and gives general informa-
tion regarding the committee and its relationships with
Olympic committees in the various countries. Any one
wishing a copy may secure it by applying to the Secre-
tariat of the International Olympic Committee.

Mathemagic.
By Royal Vale Heath. Simon 8: Schuster, New
York. $1.75.

Here is a collection of ingenius mathematical tricks
and puzzles worked out by a well known amateur mathe-
matical magician. In these days of mental games and of
crossword puzzles, mathematical magic long neglected
by the general public should find an enthusiastic response.
The book is amusineg illustrated by Gerald L. Kaufman.

Tidings of Joy.

By Elizabeth McFadden. Samuel French, Inc., New
York. $.35.

This Christmas play of one act by the author of Why
the Chimes Rang, which has been used by so many groups
at Christmas time, will be of special interest to church

organizations. It tells how Christmas joy is brought to
an evicted family. Permission to use the play must be
obtained from Samuel French at 25 West 45th Street,
New York. It may be presented by amateurs upon pay
ment of a $5.00 royalty for each performance where no
admission is charged or $10.00 for each performance
with admission charges.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT
CIRCULATION. ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF
MARCH 3, 1933, of RECREATION, published monthly at New
York, N. Y., for October 1, 1933.

STATE or New YORK,
COUNTY or New YORK. 3:.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county
aforesaid personally appeared H. S. Braucher, who, having been
duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief. a true statement of the ownership, man-
agement (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the afore-
said publication for the date shown in the above caption, re-
quired by the Act of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537,
Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this
form, to wit:

I. That the names .and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and busmess managers are:

Puhlisher: National Recreation ASsociation, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor: H. S. Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: Artbur Williams, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a cor-
poration, the names and addresses of the individual owners must
be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual
member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle. Pa.: William Butterworth,
Moline, 11].; Clarence M. Clark, Pbiladel hia, Pa.; Henry L.
Corbett. Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. ummer,1\gacksonville,
Fla,; F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L. I., . Y.; Mrs.
Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.;NJohn H. Finle , New
York, N. Y.; Hugh Frayne, New York, . Y.; Robert arrett.
Baltimore, Md.: Austin E. Grifliths, Seattle, Wash.; William
Hale Harkness, New York, N. Y.; Charles Hayden, New York,
N. Y.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan Cit, Ind.; Mrs.
Francis deLacy Hyde. Plainfield, N. J.; Gustavus . Kirby, New
York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Charles
D. Lanier, Greenwich. Conn.: Robert Lassiter, Charlotte, N. C.:
Josenh Lee, Boston. Mass; Edward E. Loomis, New York. N. Y.;
J..H. McCurdy, Springfield, Mass.; Otto T. Mallery, Philadel-
Rhia, Pa.; \Valter A. May, Pittsburgh. Pa.; Carl E. Milliken,

ugusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, \Voodbury, N. Y.; Freder-
ick S. Titsworth, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. James W. Wadsworth.
Jr., Washington, D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.; Freder-
ick M. W'arburg, New York, N. Y.; John G. \Vinant, Concord,
N. H.; Mrs. William H. Woodin, Jr., Tucson, Ariz.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state.) None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of
the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain
not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they ap-
pear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the
stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the com-
pany as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of
the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is
given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements em-
bracing afiiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances
and conditions under which stockholders and security holders
who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide
owner; and this afliant has no reason to believe that any other
person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or in-
direct in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so

stated by him.

5. That the average number of cogies of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed. throug the mails or otherWise, to
paid subscribers, during the months preceding the date. shown
above) is (This information is required from daily publications
only.

H. S. BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 28tb day of Septem-
ber, 1933.

[send CLARENCE B. WILSON,

Notary Public, Queens County.

Queens County Clerk's No. 2069. Certificate Filed in New
York County Clerk’s No. 510.

(My commission eXpires March 30, 1934.)

