 

 

Courage!

EVER before.have men needed music, reading, athletics as they do this min-
ute. Those 1n charge of recreation in our communities have as great a re-
sponsibility as those who handle relief.

The immediate present holds little of hope and cheer—without. Within—
men must keep their courage, must play their part as men, show that they have
inner resources for livmg.

First and foremost men must keep active if they are to continue to be them-
selves, to keep their courage, to keep a degree of cheerfulness. Read. Sing. Play
games with the children. Make pieces of furniture for the family. Share skills and
knowledge with others. Keep human relationships warm and satisfying.

Mental and social health depend on mental, yes, and physical activity. Men
cannot hibernate. The unused arm withers. Life unused just disappears, is gone.
and you cannot find it. Air, ventilation, activity, safeguard mind and body from
poison, tension, burning up, from deadness.

The routine of life must go on for all even in times like these—must go on
With the max1mum of norma11ty, of courage, of vigor, of cheer—no matter what
the load on the human sp1r1t.

There must be enough of rebellion to make impossible the long continuation

of intolerable conditions. Yet on the stage of life men must take their places and
play their parts even though their hearts are heavy.

This is a world of children, of young people, of old and feeble, with many
who are helpless. Those who are able—bodied, those who are fairly nOrmal-minded.
who are mature, must show their calibre, must be helped to keep up their best.

In war, in polar adventure, in shipwreck at sea, men have shown what man-
hood can be. Present t1mes are even harder on men's spirits because longer drawn
out, not so soon over, less dramatic.

It is up to recreation leaders—even though city governments have taken
away many of their workers, have reduced salaries, have left them with scant re-
sources, even though part of their work must be carried on with volunteers who
have had little training,——it is up to recreation leaders with their own courage high,
to give all they have to keep unemployed and employed active, to keep men normal,
to keep men men in the fullest sense.

There is no greater calling at the present moment than to be a recreation
worker giving a measure of leadership to people without work, who are eating the
tasteless bread of charity, wearing old clothes, coming from poorly heated homes.

Let there be warmth at the community recreation center that warms to the
marrow of the bone.

No resourcefulness, no depth of good will, no lion-heartedness is too great
for the recreation leader now.

His task is not of education—adult education are far too cold and forbidding
words to describe his opportunity. It is for him to help maintain the art of life in
nis part of a sick world, to help maintain sanity in a world where we all know there
is hunger with too much food, cold with too much fuel, lack of clothing with too
much cloth. It is for him to do his part in helping to prove that life may be still
worth living because the inner resources of the human spirit are through activity
maintained unimpaired.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

553

Courtesy Charlotte, North Carolina, Park and Recreation Commission

554

 

 

Leisure

A well-known educator urges
training on a new principle
based on the creative impulse.

   
  

NTO MY office come all sorts of people on all
I kinds of missions. The last few months have

brought a veritable army. All day long they
march in and out, always on the same errand.
They need help. They have lost their jobs and
want help to re-establish themselves. I listen,
saddened by the burden of distress these people
carry.

Many are well educated. They are trained.
They have had experience. "I am a university
graduate. I have pased the examination for a
teacher’s license. I have specialized in foreign
languages. And yet I haven’t had a day’s work
in six months. I’ve walked the streets begging
for work, any sort of work. Surely in this great
school system you have need of such a person
as I?”

Scarcely had he disappeared when a woman
took the chair at my elbow. “I am a trained
writer. I lost my job when the paper was merged
with another. Since then I haven’t been able to
find work. I’ve used up the last dollar I had
saved, and don’t know where to turn. Isn’t there
something I can do that will give me food and
shelter? Anything to earn my living?”

Sadly I shook my head,
I had nothing to offer but
sympathy, and she could
hardly be expected to live
on that.

Then a boy came. His
shabby clothes and general
“let downness” told his

 

Mr. Patri, Principal oi one oi New York
City's great public schools, is the author
oi many articles and boolas on child train-
ing. This address, broadcast on the seventh
oi December, is published here through the
courtesy oi Mr. Patri and the Cream oi
Wheat Corporation, Minneapolis.

\—

bu

Courtesy The Journal of the National Education Association

By
ANGELO PATRI

story with an eloquence his halting tongue could
never approach.

"Can you give me a job? I’m on the street. I
might come back to school but what’s the use, I
never was any good at lessons. For a year now
I’ve been in and out of work, mostly out. That
isn’t getting me anywhere. What am I going to
do P’“

Well, this one I can help a little. He is still
young enough, flexible enough, to go back to
school and under the right direction learn to ad-
just himself. But when the school gets through
with him a second time, what then? That’s what
is bothering me. What’s going to happen to this
boy and the millions like him? What is ahead of
the next generation? What preparation can we
give them that will lessen the idle army, now
marching footlessly up the hill and down again?
What can we do to make life bearable for the
people of the new day? Surely it is plain that the

’ amount of work calling for
the use of man-power is go-
ing to be reduced even be-
yond what it is at present.
A friend of mine who, a
few years ago, employed
twenty thousand men, now
needs only two thousand to

555

5 56 ' LEISURE

do the same amount of work. He is looking for-
ward to the day when he can reduce the number
of workers in his plants to two hundred. He is
glad that man has been relieved of the burden of
labor. He is glad that man is to be further re-
lieved. But what is to happen to these thousands
of unemployed people?

Is it possible that the long-cherished dream of
the worker has come true? Is it true that the hun-
ger for leisure, for time to commune with one’s
soul, for time to enjoy beauty and peace and
friendship has become a reality? It would seem
as if the millenium has fallen upon us. It has
fallen upon us like a thunder-clap, suddenly, un-
expectedly, and found us unprepared. Leisure
and time—time to do all the things we dreamed
of doing but never found time to do—are upon
us. Yet somehow we are un-
prepared to take advantage
of the cultural values that
are inherent in leisure time.

And that is why, as a
teacher, I am seriously think—
ing about the difficulties of
the present day and about
those that the new genera-
tion will have to face. The
schools failed to look ahead.
We must not make that mis—
take with the children of the
new generation. How can
we train them so that they
may profit by the element of
leisure that looms so large in
their lives? Are we going to allow leisure to
wreck our lives? Shall we let leisure, the goal of
man’s efforts, destroy our children? What can
we do to meet the challenge that this wealth of
time has put upon us? It would be bitter indeed
to have reached the millenium and found nothing
but emptiness.

There's only one answer. We cannot stop the
machines. We cannot go back to the ways of yes-
terday. We must master a new technique. We
must learn how to use leisure for the good of
mankind.

We learned how to work. We preached the
nobility of labor. Patiently, persistently, we
tackled the jobs that lay ahead of us. We mas-
tered the idea that success lay in hard work; and
now, with equal determination, we must learn a
new art, the wholesome use of leisure. What
shall we do to help our children enjoy the free—

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation, Greenwich, C mm.

"We are ready now to take the curse
out of labor. But we must make sure
to take the poison out of idleness."

dom that our continuous labor has brought upo
them? Leisure that once was a by-product of on
existence, is now to be the main business of liv
ing. It always was important. We always fe
that it was during leisure that we develope
spiritual values, that we did the things we like
to do, that we re-created our souls. We worke
and hoped and struggled and saved and invente
So that one day we might have time enough to d
the thing that was nearest to our heart’s desir
We always felt a little disappointed because th
time stolen from labor, the vacations, were all to
short. Now that all is to be changed. We hav
the time, we have the means, we should be read
to enjoy the arts, the sports, the crafts. W
should be ready to develop our intelligence, ou
altruism, our social science. We' should be read
to subordinate money, a
power, and mechanism. W
should be ready for emanci
pat‘ion, to turn our back
upon bigotry, cowardice, self
ishness. We would be, i
our schools had been wise t
see ahead of their time.

What shall we do with th
new school for the new day
Have we the courage and th
wisdom to meet the challeng
of leisure and so train on
children that they will fin
the new day one of hope an
gladness, one where leisur
is their birthright and cul

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
  

ture their heritage?

How can we profit by the experiences of thi
day of trouble and emerge from a civilization 0
servitude into one that sheds new light on th
meanings of life? Children must be taught to us
the leisure time aright. No human being can re
main idle for any length of time without protes
The spirit of man must have food. That food i
found in doing something that one likes to d
In idleness lies danger.

When the machines carried the work of hom
into the shops and laboratories, home was emptie
of its vitality. It is always so. When an institu
tion loses the stimulus of creative work it 105
meaning. Unless creative work becomes part an
parcel of the life of the school it cannot hope t
prepare children for the era of machine-mad
service.

So I say that the next generation must b

trained upon a new principle, one founded on the
creative impulse of humanity. Through that it
will cultivate spirituality and achieve its soul.
People who do not know what to do with their
leisure time are already giving themselves and
other people a lot of trouble. If they had some-
thing within themselves on which they could draw
for support in their leisure time they would be
an asset instead of a liability to themselves and
to the community. \Ve must do our utmost to
develop in every child the peculiar personal power
that makes him a person. We must keep alive
and cultivate his creative imagination. \Ve must
teach him to know the thrill of creation and find
life bearable.

  
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  

The school must do this for its children. It
must come alive and set the stage so that they are
prepared for the new day.

Is leisure valuable? Should the school feel jus-
tified in cultivating a taste and a technique for
leisure? Surely. We are ready now to take the
curse out of labor. But we must make sure to
take the poison out of idleness.

This is no easy task for any school. It is never
easy to help a child create his own personal self.
It requires great sympathy, deep understanding.
Growth is fiexible. The school must accept the
changing child, and aim at freeing the child’s
mind of fear and releasing his gifts and powers.

One of my friends lost patience with me and
said: “You’d turn the children into a lot of half-
baked poets and third rate artists if you had your
way. And those you couldn’t make 'into poets
you’d turn into craftsmen. \Ve have too many
people of that kind now and they can't earn a
living.”

No, I know better than that. I am concerned
with what is happening to human beings. Unless
the work a child is taught to do holds a reward-
ing joy born of the creative impulse, the job
falls flat. The child goes elsewhere in search of
higher values. It is by doing the thing that he
likes, the thing that is an expression of his inner
. self, the thing that allows his creative power to
function, that the child gets an appreciation of his
own strength—gets a feeling of tolerance for
others, an enthusiasm for mastery of technique.
It is through this that he forms enduring friend-
ship. It is from this that he derives his notions
of right and wrong. It is through this that he
develops his ideas of reverence, of service, of
beauty, of godliness.

LEISURE 557

Most of us are ordinary people. No marked
gifts distinguish us from the great group of peo-
ple with whom we work and play. But there is
always something that we can enjoy more than
anything else, something that brings the light of
joy and interest in our eyes, quickens our move-
ments, illumines our spirit. \Vell, it is for the
ordinary person that I crave a training for leisure,
for culture, for creative expression. The genius
has the power to liftvhimself above the routine of
daily living. \Ve don’t have to worry about his
leisure time. Nature takes care of that. But the
ordinary person must be trained in school so that
he develops a hobby, an avocation, something he
can turn to in his lesiure time. It is the ordinary
person who is going to have time for doing the
things he likes to do, and those things he should
learn to do in school. The school must change its
standards, its methods, its equipment, its atmos-
phere, if it is to be a place where he develOps his
gifts, enriches his life with beauty, lives joy-
ously, richly, with deep satisfaction in every
breath he draws. The school must teach children
the profitable use of leisure. In idleness and
vacancy lies danger. \Ve cannot allow the schools
to go on as they have been doing without running
the danger of setting man adrift, a rudderless
creature, bound to founder in a sea of plenty.

“A sense of beauty is as essential to good citi-
zenship as a sense of morality. The average per-
son is continually confronted with the problem of
creating an environment conducive to esthetic,
economic, and emotional satisfaction. Man is es-
sentially a spiritual being, revealing strong im-
pulses to escape from the tyranny of eating and
sleeping, and the monotony produced by a ma-
chine age. Modern methods of mass production
and labor-saving machinery give to the average
working man precious leisure hours that must be
put to profitable. -wholesome use or else prove
burdensome to him. \Vhat to do with leisure
time becames a problem that education must help
solve. . . . Elihu Root has said: ‘The greatest hap-
piness in life comes from things not material. It
comes from the elevation of character, from the
love of beauty gratified, from the many influences
that ennoble mankind. I think that we have no
higher duty than to promote the opening to
Americans of every opportunity to secure these
means of happiness.’ "—From A Program of Art
Education, by Joseph Wiseltier, in The Journal
of the N.  A., February, 1933.

 

By WALTER J. CARTIER

Superintendent, Park and Recreation Commission
Charlotte, North Carolina

had the Urge to establish memorials which

he has expressed in every conceivable form
ranging from a rough boulder set in the ground
with a few crude words scratched upon its sur—
face, to elaborate and costly monuments carved
of solid rock in the side of a mountain and large
enough to be seen for miles.

Memorials, like other things, have their styles
and periods. Each decade is marked with some
special style or whim, and as each succeeding
generation leaves its monuments of varied type,
we see the ever-growing tendency to try to sur-
pass all others in elaborateness or style.

Of recent years there has developed a ten-
dency toward memorials having a living value,
which are useful and will serve to make this world

558

aLMOST from the beginning of time man has

very formal park development. The property
and even the cost of developing, often is donate

donon

Music court in the Francis William Bird Park—-
a memorial park at East Walpole, Massachusetts.

   
   
  
    
 
   
  

a better place in which to live. This idea has bee
expressed in memorial fOUndations, the incom
from which is expended on some particular pro
ject‘ having to do with the welfare of people. \Va
now find foundations for almost every conceiv
able cause, and this type of memorial is indeed
valuable service.

Parks As Memorials

During the past twenty-hve years thousands 0
acres of park lands have been given to cities al
over this country as memorials of various an
sniidry nature. Some have been simply large area
of standing timber and rolling land, to be left i
as nearly natural a state as possible. This i
known as the woodland park. We find, too, th

in order to construct a memorial suitable to th

Regardless of type or size, such memorials go
down through the years gathering value and im-
Eortance with age and increasing use. Thousands
. f people throng these memorial parks every year
enjoying the shade of their trees, the coolness of
ltheir running waters, and the opportunity to play
tin God's out-of—doors. Surely it does not‘ require
pny great imagination to picture the enduring
values of such a memorial.

     
   
 
   
  
  

Athletic Fields

One of the newest developments is the dona-
tion of land, necessary buildings and construction
of facilities for athletic fields. There have been
several notable examples of this form of me—
morial. In one instance, not only was the land
given the city, but the entire cost of development
was borne by the donor and a trust fund set aside
for the perpetual maintenance of the plant with-
out cost to the city. This solves the problem of
maintaining such a splendid facility, the cost of
which might embarrass a municipal commission,
especially if it were operating on small funds.
However, very few municipalities has so many
parks or athletic fields that they would not be glad
to accept gifts of developed land, if the only ex-
pense were that of maintenance.

l

Memorial Playgrounds

The gleeful shouts and running feet of happy,
care-free youngsters are guaranteed to bring sat-
isfaction to anyone considering the establishment
of a memorial which will live for all time in the
lives of boys, girls and adults. It has been truly
said. “The gift of land is the gift eternal.” Cer-
tainly the gift of a playground would be the type
of memorial destined to bring pleasure into the
lives of thousands, and something which would
never be forgotten or done away with.

Numerous men and women, in selecting suit-
able memorials for their children, have found in
the playground a means of memorializing a loved
one in something more intimate, more lasting than
bronze or stone, because the
playground is a constructive
force dealing in human
values—a builder of hap-

Wading and Swimming

In a western city, not
long ago, a small 'curly- January, |933.

"We have made locomotives, automobiles,
bridges and skyscrapers, and sometimes have
stumbled upon beauty. Is there any reason
piness_ why we should not now go deliberately
forth to seek it? And need we be ashamed
to seek it in our own way and our own
Pools ploce,not alone in quietness but amidst sweat
and dust, fire and molten metal?-—R. L. _
Duffus in The American Magazine of Art, (alluded “Donated Parks

.llEMORIALS USEFUL AND ORNAA’IENTAL 559

headed girl was killed while crossing the street.
Her parents were grief-stricken. After the shock
abated, they began to cast around for a suitable
memorial. A visit to the neighborhood playground
made them realize the value of play in the safety
and happiness of children, and they decided to
give a memorial wading pool. This pool was de-
signed by an eminent architect in collaboration
with the playground executive. So genuine and
enthusiastic was the response to the opening of
this splendid memorial that the parents, happy in
the joy they had brought, decided to build a sec-
ond pool in a different section of the city.

In Charlotte we have a beautiful memorial pool
known as the Arhelger Memorial Pool, dedicated
to a young woman who lost her life in saving a
child. This memorial was built through popular
subscription, and since its opening has been ex-
tremely popular. (See photograph, page 554.)

The imperative need of adequate swimming
facilities in the modern city has been answered in
a number of localities in the gift of splendid
memorial swimming pools. In some instances
municipalities have furnished the money and the
pools are memorials to soldier dead. In others,
individuals have furnished the necessary funds
for building and beautifying pools which are liv-
ing and vital memorials to the loved ones they
commemorate.

Another very attractive type of memorial is
the memorial garden. These gardens are being
developed in a number of ways. Some are very
formal; others are simple, old-fashioned gardens
with a wealth of Howering plants, shrubs and
trees, with winding walks and opportunities for
restful enjoyment in the out-of-doors.

\Vithout depreciating the aesthetic value of our
splendid bronzes, sculptured stone and inspiring
shafts of marble and granite, is it not wise and
reasonable for us to give more serious thought,
in the provision of memorials, to making them
useful as well as ornamental?

Anyone wishing definite
information on areas given
for recreation purposes is
invited to send to the Na-
tional Recreation Associa-
tion for the free pamphlet

and Play Areas.”

 

Courtesy German Tourist Information 035%, New York

Ploy Streets

AST SPRING at a meeting held in the office of
Police Commissioner Edward T. Mulrooney,
the Committee to Open Recreation Centers

of the Community Councils of New York recom-
mended that for play demonstration purposes one
hundred play streets be set aside. With the aid of
Mr. Barron Collier, who contributed $1,000, it
was possible to undertake the program.

The directors, in selecting the play streets, were
careful to choose streets in neighborhoods where
recreational facilities were at a minimum. In some
instances streets were chosen which were dead end
streets or free from heavy traffic. Forty-eight
play streets were established in congested areas in
the Boroughs of the Bronx and
Manhattan. Seven streets were
run for a period of from one to
three weeks and forced to close
for various reasons.

Leadership was discovered
among the candy merchants,
grocery clerks, barbers, sextons,
janitors and other volunteers.
who took care of equipment on

560

Play streets came into being in
Germany when in three different
sections of Hamburg en’rire streets.
or parts of them. were closed to
Jrraffic. The city authorities have
given assurance that "Spiels’rras-
senll are purely emergency meas-
ures. As soon as funds are avail-
able real playgrounds will be cre-
ated in all parts of the city.

Hamburg, Germany, has ioined New York, Cincinnati, ,
and other large cities in setting aside streets for play.

 

their respective streets. These men, who were a
eager as the children to have the play equipmen
installed, proved to be capable adult leaders. No
only did they see that the equipment was takei
care of but they also settled disputes, suggeste
new games and took a personal interest in wha
was going on. With the assistance of three 0
four older boys who acted as block captains
these adult leaders helped carry on very success
fully the block activities.

The Emergency Work Bureau assigned fou
men to supervise activities, each man being as
signed a certain number of streets where he wa
in general charge of the activities, took care of th
equipment and organized tour
naments.

Boys and girls between th
ages of six and sixteen years 0
age took part in the activitie
and many areas were represent
ed. The lower East Side an
Harlem streets attracted th
greatest number of children

(Continued on page 589)

,i/

hey Voted ,
"Yes"

For

  
  
  
    
    

ecreation

How three cities car-

ried on successful
referendum campaigns

'r WAS NOT by accident that
the citizens of Battle Creek,
Michigan, Canton, Ohio,
nd Parkersburg, West Vir-
inia, went to the polls last
ovember and voted substan-
ial approval of their tax sup-
orted recreation programs.
ccidents like that do not hap-
en in the face of one of the
ost powerful campaigns for
ax reduction that American
ommunities have known.

It was skillful and intensive
:ampaigning based on a foun-
lation of successful recrea-

tion service that led to the successful vote. Wil-

 

Courtesy Berkeley, California, Recreation Department

When cities vote “Yes” for recreation they
make possible activities such as these.

iam G. Robinson, district respresentative of the

National Recreation Association, who was called
in to help plan the campaigns and give advice as
:hey progressed, states, “In all three cases is the
Jackground of a number of years of well-planned,
raried, and far reaching programs. The voters
.vere convinced by accomplishments and not by

)romises.”

A common element in the strategy of these
campaigns was house to house and person to per-
son canvassing for votes. General publicity was
utilized, of course, but that was not considered
sufiicient. Another common factor was the en-

listment of participants in the program as election
workers. And how they did work!

561

562 THEY VOTED “YES” FOR RECREATION

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

The campaign in

we A View of Excelsior Playground, San Francisco twenty-
Five 'years ago, when recreation development 'started.

Canton, largest'lof the
three cities, was so
thorough, says Mr. C.
W. Schnake, director of the Department of
Recreation, that by November 8th practically
every voter had in one way or another been ap-
proached three times.

In 1931 the city had completed a five-year
period of recreation financed by a one—tenth of a
mill tax levy. That year the attempt to renew
the levy by referendum vote failed by eighteen
hundred votes. However, a minimum program
was carried on by”. the department, using a sur-
plus that had been accumulated from revenue dur-
ing the previous five years. Early in 1932, it was
decided to present the levy to the voters again,
raising it to two-tenths of a mill because of the
depreciation in property appraisals and a decrease
in city revenues due to tax delinquencies.

Canton’s Campaign Begins

Instead of the very large citizens’ committee
set up in 1931, only a small group consisting of
the recreation board of five members, the mayor
of the city,.and the clerk of the council, engi—
neered the 1932 campaign. In its work this com-
mittee sent out very few letters, depending in-
stead on personal interviews.

   
   
    
  
 
 
   
 

The campaign co
menced quietly durin
the summer of 193
At all athletic an
other events ca rd
were passed around among the spectators an
participants stating that these activities wer
made possible by the city’s department of recrea
tion. The cards made no reference to a tax le
Throughout the year all the activities of the de
partment were given newspaper publicity.

J

On the understanding that it was probabl
necessary to petition the board of education t
vote a resolution passing the question of recrea
tion to the board of elections, petitions were cir
culated among voters early in September. Afte
five hundred signatures had been secured, th
city solicitor made a ruling that the petition wa
not necessary. Realizing, however, that the cir
culation of the petition and the securing of signa
tures were good advertising, the signature get
ting was allowed to continue until four thousa :
had been obtained.

Because of the general campaign for tax re
duction going on everywhere it was later decide
to give special publicity to the tax feature. Th
theory of this was that if the people had becom
familiar over a period of a month with the pros-
pect of a tax levy they would not suddenly I:
upset about it at the polls. Large signs wer

   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  

ainted on playground basketball backstops and
lsewhere reading, “Vote for the Recreation Tax
vy.” Cards were also placed in stores and read,
For Health and Safety—Vote for Recreation
ax Levy," “Give the Kids a Break—Vote for
ecreation Tax Levy,” “Keep the Playgrounds
nd Swimming Pools Open—Vote for Recrea-
ion Tax Levy.” Signs were also placed in buses.
he large signs were put up approximately a
onth before the election; cards, three weeks;
nd bus signs, one week.

Cooperation of Church Organizations

The intensive phase of a campaign began three
eeks before election with the calling together of
our ministers, two priests and a rabbi for dis-
ussion of the recreation levy as a moral and re-
igious issue. The clergymen accepted the cam-
aign as such and agreed as a committee to ap-
roach the other churches and present the levy as
non-political measure to their congregations on
he last two Sundays before election.

A resolution was written and signed by the of-
cers of the Men’s Federated Bible Classes, a
entral organization covering all the Protestant
faiths in the city, calling for a favorable vote on
he tax levy. This was

THEY VOTED “YES” FOR RECREATION 563

men’s, on the last two Sundays before November
8. A complete sample ballot, the reference to the
recreation measure marked with red crayon, was
printed to the number of 100,000 and distributed
to the churches and Sunday schools.

Arrangement of this remarkable cooperation
from churches and Sunday schools was made
through the president of the Federated Bible
Classes, who suggested the key men in each
church.

Work With Other Organizations

Small meetings were held with those who took
part in the activities of the department, includ-
ing members of committees, backers, players,
coaches, and other participants. It was explained
to them that the city was in no condition to carry
on recreation except through this special levy.
The schools were not in a financial position to do
the work. Recreation would be lost if they did
not go out and push the measure.

In one way or another the measure was brought
to the attention of bridge clubs, participants at
society functions, and members of numerous or-
ganized groups. This got it talked about and dis-
cussed even more than the presidential candidates,

people said.

A chairman of rec-
reation was appointed
for the city-wide Par-

ead before all Bible
in the city,
vomen’s as well as

 

Excelsior Playground today under the new chartervoted
by the people increasing the tax levy for recreation

#
In
U!
U!
(D
U!

 

Courtrry San Francisco Recreation Commirriou

564 THEY VOTED “YES” FOR RECREATION

ent-Teachers Council and in turn a chairman for
each association. The levy was presented to every
association not by outstanding men of the city,
but by inHuential men from each neighborhood.
A committee was then organized in each associa-
tion, consisting of not less than three members,
which engaged in block to block canvassing in
favor of the measure.

During the summer of 1932 the Italians, Slo-
vaks, Hungarians, Poles, and Negroes formed an
organization for consideration of and voting on
political measures. Out of the membership of the
city blocks by which these groups were organized,
a central committee of sixteen men was eventually
formed. At the last pre-election meeting of
this group, the recreation issue was considered
and it was voted fifteen to one to support it. This
brought a practically one hundred per cent fav-
orable vote from the foreign groups of the city.

Since the November election was to be-on na-
tional and state issues primarily, there were no
local issues to confuse voters and to divert their
attention from the recreation question. The
mayor, various councilmen and other political
leaders took a favorable position on the tax levy.
It was brought up at practically all political ral-
lies, both Republican and Democratic as a non-
political issue. All ward captains and workers
having sample ballots, the levy was stressed as
both a Republican and Democratic measure.

The cooperation of the superintendent of
schools having been sought, he personally talked
to all principals and they in turn presented the
question to all their teachers. A sample ballot was
taken home by every school child Monday noon
before election. Each public school teacher and
each Sister in the parochial schools explained to
the pupils that the tax levy was one question that
was of vital importance to the city and to them
personally, stating that the schools and the par-
ishes were behind the movement and would ap-

preciate their support.

The Arguments Used

Voters were told that paying asmall tax for
recreation was cheaper than paying the excessive
costs of juvenile delinquency or suffering the de-
preciation of public and private property that
threatened if the levy failed to pass. The moral,
spiritual, and recreative benefits of a city-wide
program “at a time of such dire need” were
stressed as extremely important for the children,
young people, and adults of the city. It was
pointed out that the playgrounds, swimming pools,

and other facilities which had been closed f
lack of funds would be reopened and would tee
with activity. The Canton Economist, the spok
man for Canton’s business institutions, declar
editorially that defeat of the measure would .
false economy.

As a final climax of the campaign a truck w
driven through the business section of the ci
from 3 P. M. to 6 P. M. the day before electio
bearing signs and a group of forty-live childre
Two signs read, “Vote for the Recreation Ta
Levy.” Streamers on either side of the truck rea
respectively, “Please Give Us Back Our Pla
grounds,” and “Please Keep Our Swimmi
Pools Open.” The children blew horns, ran
bells, and sang a parody on the “Mississip
Levee” to the effect of “vote for the recreatio
levy.” The truck had police escort.

Individual to individual contact was the hea
of this campaign. The voter was approache
through some political organization, or partic
lar friend, through the block to block work of th
Parent-Teachers Associations, and through th
children from every school on the Monday befor
election. One worker personally made three hun
dred calls. He was unemployed and thought tha
this was as good a use as any he could put hi
time to.

Other forms of publicity were not neglected
They included outdoor advertising and printe
matter, paid for by donations, newspaper stories
speeches, and a very cleverly arranged radio pro
gram in which the mayor of the city interviewe
individuals representative of the participants i
the various activities of the department, bringin
out how much the activities were valued and wha
a loss it would be if they could not be continued.

Precinct Organization in Parkersburg

The campaign in Parkersburg, while quiet, was
also very thorough. As in Canton, there was an
intensive organization of the vote by precincts.
Each precinct committee was headed by an in
dividual appointed for his or her interest in recre-
ation. Such individuals included backers an
managers of athletic teams, personal friends of
members of the recreation board and executive,
individuals in key positions in industrial plant
and shops, key leaders in teachers’ associations
members of the Lion’s Club, employees of th
recreation board, the Girl Scout executive, and
participants in recreation activities.

(Continued on page 589)

 

By MARY J. BREEN

National Recreation Association

  
 

RAC'I‘ICAL jokes and tricks are the special
P privilege of April Ist socials. There will be

room for plenty in this Bag O’Tricks Party.
If you like rhymes and are enterprising enough
to make cut-out invitations, send out the suggested
message with little Mr. Bag O’Tricks as pictured
here.

The Invitation

Use the illustration as a pattern for Mr. Bag
O’Tricks. Cut the figure out of tan card board.
Color with red the coat, shoes, pack, and trim-
mings on the coat and trousers. Write the
invitation in colored ink or crayon on thin white
paper. Fold this several times and put it in the
slit in the bag as shown in the picture.

If your tastes are simpler, write your invitation
on plain white note paper or a double correspond-
ence card. On the outside, in one corner, place a
jester cut-out, and in the middle write “April
Fool.” On the'inside write “But don’t be fooled
by staying away from my Bag O'Tricks Party on
April Ist. Sharpen your wits and be ready with
some trick or practical joke. You will need it in
self-defense.”

The place . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
The time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The party can be conducted without the pre-
sence of little Mr. Bag O’Tricks, but he will add
fun and color. If you do have him as master of
ceremonies your guests will be expecting a Peter-
Panish person resembling the figure on your in-
vitation. But since it is April Ist and everything
is topsy-turvy, your Mr. Bag O’Tricks may be a

I
in." ’ ’7’,
‘3  \\

Little Mr. Beg O'Triclts

Comes to you to sey

You're invited to e perty
On All Fools' Dey.

Little Mr. Beg O'Tricls'
Pack is rather light

So won't you bring along e trick
To cheer the little wight?

lt needn't be expensive
it may be old or new
In fect. if you'll perform it
Just the name will do.

tall robust person, or even a shriveled old man
with whiskers. \Vhichever he is, he should be
merry and have a good sense of humor. One of
those “dyed-in-the-wool” practical jokers who is
indispensable but slightly bothersome on other
social occasions would be in his element in such
a role. He should wear a bright colored cap and
sash and “floppy” boots. Realistic ones can be
made of oil cloth or colored canvas.

As each guest arrives, Mr. Bag O'Tricks greets
him with some foolish saying and hands him a
card, on one side of which is written in a spiral
the following message: “The message on this
card is very important, so read it carefully. It’s
April first! Beware of practical jokes. Now look
at your hands." The person has to turn the card
around and around to read what the card says.
The under side is covered with lamp black. This
is a good enough opening for any party!

Before admitting the guests Mr. Bag O'Tricks
checks up on each one to be sure he is ready with
a trick. Those who are not prepared are made to
perform a stunt later in the evening. If a trick
or stunt can be put on by a few people to enter-
tain the crowd, Mr. Bag O’Tricks asks the per-
son responsible for it to wait until he gives him
the signal before performing it. T he. old stunt,
“Playing Fools for the Crowd” and “I Have
Caught a Line of Suckers,” both of which are
described later, are much more effective if there
is a good audience and a great deal of hullabaloo

before the event.
565

566 A BAG O’TRICKS PARTY

As a sign that he approves the guests Mr. Bag Tricks of All Kinds
O’Tricks hands each person a paper bag to which
is tied a tag on which is written the person’s
name and these words, “This is your bag o’tricks.
Solve the puzzle.” The bag contains a jig-saw
puzzle which each person must put together be-
fore he is allowed to join the initiates who have
preceded him. The jig-saw puzzles are made by
pasting comic valentines on a piece of cardboard.
This is cut up into pieces of different shapes and

Have a lot of innocent looking tricks to cat
the unwary and others to catch even the warie
The first nine tricks of the following list can
made very easily. The others can be purchased
novelty stores. If your local store does not car
them, write for a catalogue of the Ross Souve
Company, “the Shop Full of Foolishness,” 2 W
33rd Street, New York City.

sizes. Each valentine should be selected so that (1) A Depression spoon. can be made ,
it fits the Person for Whom it is intendEd- tiling off the bowl of a flve- and ten-cent sto

Decorations should be as foolish as possible. Spoon, It Should be placed in a dish of candy .
Display signs may be used wishing the guest a peanuts_

“Merry April Fool Day” or “A

Snappy Easter.” Misguided pro—

verbs such as the following will 50' out Of blaCk 5tle Paper: make t1
0%

six legs by pasting on t

' “H 1 ughs best who 0" c I‘F‘L ll 2 under side of the roa
occasmn. e a I , i .

gathers no moss.” “There is g 0 Oak P J’ ‘3 StrlPS 0f €135th Cut fro

(2) Paper Roaches. Cut the

add to the “seriousness” of the

f 1 1k p6 my Wise” I'Q ' narrow elastic bands. T
no 00 1 e n ' '_ roaches are ver effective
“A 1‘0“ng Stone and "hls 0 Of: Q) é *0 of? """' 9 put near the liefreshmen
money are 300“ Parted- £ 3 2‘  or dropped in a glass in
Rebecca’s motto, “When  a- water_
joy and duty clash, let i. ‘3 U 0 J.) as (3) The E n d1 e S
St: 3521.53.33“ om '°v‘° } ~z>     f
A  l t L 10 a‘\ ‘0 \ men or for women if th
p n 00 par 3" " ~ «35 y a. are wearing coat suits. ‘
In one corner of. the room 0/19 \ Spool of thread is placed i
arrange a fake exh1b1.t* usmg \p 4 I \' \ the upper coat pocket, Th
thf f0110w_mg3 . n f ' J. '  loose end of the thread is p
two}? 8:31;: . Of WaShmgton "fifty 41(303'4‘Q through a needle, which is broug
“Fifty Views of the Panama Canal”_ . out through the pocket to the und
fifty Panama Stamps_ Slde of the coat and out again on t t
“Fifty Points in Colorado”——a sketch of Colorado lapel Of the coat The needle is then taken OE an
with fifty dots one inch of white thread is left hanging on t .
“Among the Rockies”-—several rocking chairs (doll coat The tidy guest Who tries to take Off the i

furniture and others).

Place a large letter “C” on each end of a strip of
cardboard which must stand north and south. The letter

nocent thread will pick out many yards before i
sees the joke.

at the north end is “The North Sea” and “'Below the (4) The MOVing P iece 0f Cheese- Tie
North Sea” is the lower letter. long blond hair or a piece of light colored sil
General Cobb and his Colonels——a cob of corn. thread around a piece of Cheese. Hold the 0

The Bust of a Commentator—-—a potato.
The American Elevator—a yeast cake.
The Rose of Castile—-—Castile soap in rows.

end in your hand and draw the cheese across t
table at the appropriate moment.

A Swimming Match—a match in a glass of water. (5) The Jumping candy' CUt Off a t“
The Peacemakers—a pair of Scissors. inch piece of the spring from the roller of a Wi
Study in Black and White—a piece of chalk and coal. dow shade. Stretch it until it measures about

A Diamond Pin‘*3 dime and Pin- inches. Cover this with green paper cambri

A Pair of Slippersw—banana peels.

Extracts from Many Pens—a penwiper.
The Unopened Letter—the letter “O.”

Squeeze it into a candy or nut jar or can abo
four inches high. The can should be small enou
in diameter so that the “snake” will spring wh
* From The Book: of Games and Parties by Theresa H. Wolcott. the can 15 Opened' The Jar or can Should bear t

 

 

abel of some good brand of candy or nuts so
hat the guests will not be able to resist opening
he can. They will find a very tasty tidbit good
for many shrieks during the evening!

Nora: Riddles No. 4 and No. S are taken from Sam
oyd and H is Pussies, published by Barse & Co.

(6) Fragrant Flowers. Sprinkle snuff or
pepper on flowers which are really fragrant and
which the guests won’t be able to resist smelling.

(7) The Lost Handkerchief, is sewed fast
to a (livan or chair.

(8) The Lost Nickel. Glue a tack to a
nickel. Place it' on the floor, head up, and step on
it. Even the most persistent Scotchman won’t be
able to pick it up!

(9) April Fool Signs. Pin on unsuspecting
guests such signs as “Poke me gently,” “Tell me
my name,” and the like.

(10) A Bending Soup Spoon, which has a
joint in the middle and bends when it is picked

up

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  

(11) A Wobbly Cigarette Box. This box
resembles a well known brand of cigarettes. A
hidden mechanism makes it vibrate when it is
picked up.

(12) A Left-handed Cork Screw. This has
a left-handed thread and it usually takes the vic-
tim several minutes to “wake up.”

(13) For the Guest Room. Crying towels,
each printed with funny inscriptions, soap which
gives the hands a greenish color, and a funny
mirror which distorts the appearance of anyone
who looks into it, are indispensable for the guest
room at an April Fool party.

(14) A Diamond Ring. A white stone ring

with a hollow stem. Water is ejected from a
rubber bulb hidden in the hand.

(15) Joy Buzzer. A handshaking contriv-
ance which is worn like a ring. The persons shak-
ing hands receive a shock.

(16) J o k e r’s Snow-
flakes. A small pellet plac-
ed upon a cigar or in a pipe
will fill the room with an
imitation snowstorm.

(17) Jumping Frog. A
small metal frog which
jumps several feet into the air
and can be timed to jump at

different intervals.
(18) Musical S ea t. A

April Fool's Day, or All Fools' Day, is

a day dear to children, and to grown-ups
as well, by reason of the sanction that
it gives to all sorts of mischievous and
.harmless pranks. Its origin, though un-
known, is old, Nina B. Lernkin points out
in "Good Times for All Times," as Poor
Robin’s Almanac, published in I760, con-
tains a rhyme regarding it. In English
speaking countries the victim oi a joke
is called an April Fool; in Scotland he is
a gawk, and in France afisb.

A BAG O’TRICKS PARTY 567

small bellows placed on a chair or under a cushion
sqeaks when anyone sits on it.

(19) A Shooting Match Box. A metal
match box made for paper matches which shoots
when it is opened.

(20) A Surprise Squirter. A metal monkey
which is worn as a lapel button. Water is squirted
through it from a ball in the pocket.

(21) Palpitator Plate Lifter. Makes plates
and dishes dance. This is a small bulb with a long
rubber tube attached to a larger bulb. The larger
one is held in the person’s hand and when it is
squeezed, the bulb under the plate puffs out and
lifts up the plate.

Games and Stunts

Games and stunts with humorous twists or those
in which a few entertain the group are especially
appropriate for April Fool parties.

The Vicious Donkey. A picture of a donkey
with a huge ear is drawn in charcoal on a large
piece of white paper. About ten of the guests are
asked to go into another room and brought back
one at a time. As each one is brought in he is
shown the picture of the donkey and told that
after he is blindfolded he is to go up and poke
his finger in the donkey’s car. He is then blind-
folded, led up to the donkey and told to go ahead
and poke. Just as he is about to do so, one of the
leader’s “assistants” who has been casually stand-
ing near the donkey, kneels down, and as the ex-
ploring forefinger is about to touch the picture,
he gives it a healthy bite. It never takes very
long for the blindfold to come off ! The healthy
bite is a nip by the teeth of some toy animal or
a large paper clip.

April Fool Spelling Bee. Contestants are
lined up and when everyone is ready the leader
says, “April Fool! You’re not going to spell. I
am. As I spell, you pronounce the words.” The
players will be surprised
when the leader spells such
words as “Antipode, Anti-
podes, acclimate, decadent.”
There are lists of words for
pronouncing contests in the
book, “Are You a Genius?”
by Robert A. Streeter and
Robert G. Hohn, published
by F. A. Stokes Company,
443 Fourth Avenue, New
York City. Price $1.00.

568 A BAG O’TRICKS PARTY

April Fool Jump. Three or four stout men
are chosen—with friendly determination on the
part of the leader—for the victims in this race.
A washline is stretched across the room, some two
feet off the floor. In order to get an idea of its
height these men are asked to try umping across
it in turn, as they are to jump it blindfolded in
a few minutes. After they have all jumped it
with their eyes open they are blindfolded at the
same time, and one at a time are faced in the
right“ direction and told to jump the rope blind-
folded. The picture of stout men making frantic
attempts to jump over an imaginary rope is most
ludicrous.

Ulind Boxing. Two blindfolded contest-
ants put on the boxing gloves. A rope is tied
around each fighter’s waist so that they can be
guided and pulled away from each other at will.
After their eyes have been covered, the referee
puts on a pair of gloves without the boxers’
knowledge, and clowns with them. This is very
successful if the boxing is well done.

Playing Fools for the Crowd. The people
who did not come prepared to play a trick on the
other guests are asked to leave the room. The
stunt is explained to the rest of the group. When
the players leave the room they are told that they
are to pantomime playing in an orchestra. They
are to play their instruments when the leader
gives the signal, and the crowd is to guess what
instruments they are playing and what tune they
are playing. When they start playing on their
imaginary instruments, individuals in the audience
venture guesses as to the instruments which are
being pantomimed. The leader then turns around
to the audience presumably to ask the name of
the tune and says, “What are we playing?” and
the audience in a chorus says, “Fools for the
crowd!”

Marshmallow Eating Contest. Three or
more pairs of players (men preferably) are asked
to enter a marshmallow eating contest. The
players line up on opposite sides of a table. A
dish of marshmallows is placed between each pair
of players. The players are instructed to feed
their partners the marshmallows in the dish. Each
pair of players is competing with all the other
pairs. To play the game, however, all the con-
testants must be blindfolded. When the blind-
folds are put on, the dishes of marshmallows are
replaced by dishes of marshmallows covered with

lampblack. The players deserve all the marsh-
mallows they can eat!

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
  
  
   

Obstacle Race. Select several contesta
for this race. Place a number of obstacles in
race course—buckets, books, cups, tumblers, .,
Let the contestants try the course once. T
blindfold them, have some one noiselessly rem
all the obstacles, and start the race. If this
done cleverly enough, the contestants will do 5
ridiculous high-stepping to avoid knocking o
or touching any of the obstacles, since one of
rules laid down was that each obstacle touc
counts one demerit against the racer. The c
testants must walk and not run.

“I Have Caught a Line of Suckers.”
your guests are still trusting enough when you
troduce this game, ask several of them to c
up and take hold of a string which you and an
complice are holding. Then start a telephone :-
versation with your accomplice on the other e
You tell him about a fishing trip you have b
on and when he asks what you caught, you re
“A line of suckers.”

And Riddles, Too

Humorous riddles are good for April F
parties. If the group is large, form teams a
score one point for a team each time one of '
members guesses the correct answer. In selecti
riddles be sure that they are not too difficu
Some riddles can’t be solved for weeks and ev
the most amiable person would lose his good 11
ure if a party continued that long. Here are 501

good ones :

(1) A boy was sent to a spring with a live and thr
quart measure to procure exactly four quarts of wa
How did he measure it?

(2) A gentleman was shown the picture of an
mate of a prison and asked by the warden whether
was related to the culprit. He replied, “Brothers .
sisters have I none, but this man’s father is my fat
son.” What relation was the gentleman to the priso

(3) A snail climbs up a wall twenty feet in he
during the day it climbs five feet but slips back ‘
feet each night. How many days will it take to r

the top?

(4) Twice four and twenty black birds are sitti ._
the rain, one shot killed a seventh, how many dld rem

(5) Three stupid boys who were so dumb they c
not do a simple sum were tagged with numbers 3,
and were told those numbers they could mix to find,
any changes tried, a sum of .which seven would di
One of the boys proved to be not such a dunce after
for in a very clever way he arranged the three fl
in to a number divisible by seven. How did he do it?

(6) Two Indians were sitting on a curb a big Ind
and a little Indian. The little Indian was the big 1

(Continued on page 590)

Lo - the Poor Judge!

By MABEL FOOTE HOBBS

Community Drama Service
National Recreation Association

      
   

tournament this year in your club, community
or county, it might be well to consider the
'udges’ powers of endurance along with their
ther qualifications! If you have ever been in the
position of serving as a tournament judge, this
statement needs no explanation. For at times there
is likely to be no more thankless task in the world.

Someone calls you on the ’phone, or perhaps
writes you a flattering letter, asking you to serve
as a judge. You ruefully weigh the long, ardu-
ous evening hours against the desire to be help-
ful and decide that you really ought to accept.
You break engagements for the week, if you are
to be a preliminary judge, and faithfully appear
at each performance. With the rules before you,
you mull over every point and strain your critical
powers to the utmost to give each cast what it

IF YOU ARE thinking of conducting a drama

The judge in a drama tourna-
ment must very often wish he

had the wisdom of a Solomon!

deserves. Or, if you are to judge the finals, you
take your seat, conscious of the fact that a great
responsibility has been thrust upon you. You
sharpen your wits and make an earnest effort not
to let a thing get by, good or bad, without taking
it carefully into consideration. The reports are
finally handed in or you may meet with the other
judges for a few minutes of grave discussion and
sober comparison of figures before giving the
decision to the master of ceremonies who is to
make the announcement to the restless audience.

You heave a sigh of relief. Well, it was worth
it to have done your part! You enjoy a modest
glow of satisfaction and wait for someone to
shake your hand gratefully. That is, you do if
you have never before helped judge a drama
tournament! A seasoned judge knows that now
the time has come to turn up his coat collar and

A scene from the “Florist Shop,” one of the plays
used in a drama tournament in Westchester County.

 

 

570 1.0— THE POOR JUDGE!

sneak out the nearest
fire exit before the
“brickbats” begin to fly!
Nobody loves a tourna—
ment judge. How can
one, when the judges
completely overlook the
play in which poor,
dear Mary Agnes rose
from an attack of grippe
to appear? Of course
she didn’t give her best
performance but—think
of it—she actually had
a fever!

Or perhaps it is a
boys’ club tournament.
How could the heart-
less judges ignore the .
group who put on the ‘
scene from “Hamlet”!
Didn’t those tired moth-
ers trudge to the club
house night after night
to sew costumes? The club leader is heart-
broken because the boys and girls who gave up
their opportunities to swim or dance to rehearse
a scene from “Cyrano,” received no recognition.
The judges did not and should not know about
these things, interesting as they are. The judges
are concerned solely with what occurs on the stage
after the curtain is up and the play goes on. Their
interest is exclusively centered on audibility, dic-
tion, teamwork and similar points.

Some Remedies

It would be most unfortunate if tournaments had
to be abandoned because of the ill—will they some—
times engender. They have so many advantages
that it seems as though some remedies could be
found for their unpleasant features. The real dif-
ficulty seems to lie in a lack of understanding.
The persons directly connected with'the individ-
ual productions are apt to consider it from the
emotional side. Many things which have nothing
to do with the final production of the play creep
into their evaluation of it. Personal sacrifices, the
impoverished home of some child who does a
lovely bit of acting—all these things loom large
to the club and drama directors who are close to
the children and often obscure their perspective
of the tournament as a whole. But the judging,
on the other hand, must be more or less mechani-

 

Lady Gregory's play The Full Moon has been
very successfully used in drama tournaments.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

cal. The only way th
it is possible to condu
a tournament is throu
cold reasoning. Let an
one who doubts thi
attempt to direct one 0
an emotional basis
taking into consider
tion all the touchin
facts that the dram
directors can think up

In reviewing some 0
the tournament ills tha
have come to our atten
tion, two points stan
out as being particu
larly troublesome. They
are lack of conlidenc
in the judges’ abilit
a n d misunderstandin
concerning the rules. I
is of the utmost im—
portance that the judge
be well qualified fo
their work and that their experience is such tha
their opinion will go unchallenged by the lay—
man. A suburban group whose tournaments had
been outstanding events'in the amateur world for
years, was obliged to give up the touranment re-
cently because the groups participating refused
to complete before the judges whom the com—
mittee had been able to supply. It‘ is becoming
more and more difficult to secure the services of
judges gratis and the time is not far distant when
judging will have to be put on a financial rather
than a complimentary basis. The fee paid the
judges for their time and expert work may be
looked upon in the same light as the remunera—
tion which the author receives in royalty.

The solution to most tournament problems will
undoubtedly be arrived at through perfect under-
standing of the rules by the players, club direct—
ors, drama directors, and judges. It is impossible
for any committee to arrange a set of rules which
will apply to all tournaments. The rules employed
in the National Little Theatre Tournaments con-
ducted in New York by Walter Hartwig could
not be used in a rural tournament. But in general,
the considerations are similar. The most satisfy-
ing rules can be obtained by having the commit-
tee members acquaint themselves with the rules
used by other groups and take what seems to
apply to their own case.

 

' The following suggestions were selected from
[ten different set ups, ranging from the most ex-
.perienced to the simplest tournaments.

Suggested Tournament Rules

I. The contest is open to all non-professional
.dramatic groups in  No professional actors
shall be employed in the presentation. A profes-
sional director does not come within the restric-
tions mentioned, as long as he does not act a part
,in the tournament.

II. Not' more than . . . . groups may compete.
Registration of intention to enter the contest must
be made by . . .. and registrations are accepted
in order of their receipt. Name of play and cast
need not be announced at that time.

NOTE: Mr. Carl Glick, well-known playwright, who
ms one Of the first tO introduce the state tournament,
Otiers the following suggestion. An invitation to par-
ticipate, with the rules attached, is sent by the tourna-
ment committee to each eligible group by registered
mail, receipt card requested. The reply Of acceptance,
which the committee asks the groups to send by regis-
tercd mail, indicates that the entrants are willing to
a-biJe by the rules. This method eliminates any possible
misunderstanding through lost mail.

III. Name and synopsis of play must be in the
hands of the committee by . . . .. No two groups
shall give the same play. The first group to sub-
mit the play shall be given the preference. No
player may act in more than one play.

IV. An entrance fee of . . .. will be charged
each contesting group, payment to be made not
later than  Each competing group will re-
ceive gratis . . . . tickets. These may be disposed
Of for . . . . apiece, thus covering the cost of en-
trance fee and perhaps the royalty for the play.
There will be no expense to the contestants for

rental of the theatre.
NOTE: The rental and general expenses govern the
amount Of the entrance fee.

V. Entries are limited to strictly one-act plays
with casts of at least four people. Musical and
dancing specialties are barred. Only one set is
allowed. The curtain may be dropped to denote
passing of time. Maximum playing time shall be

forty minutes.

NOTE: The time limit varies from thirty to forty-five
minutes. but the majority Of rules place a forty minute
limit. The New Haven Drama Tournament bars orig-
inal plays, one act from a long play, and plays that have
been presented in the tournament during the past four

years.

V. Each contesting group must be responsi-
ble for the royalty on its own play, and the receipt

 

l L0 -— THE POOR JUDGE! 571

for payment to the play agents must be presented
to the committee twenty—four hours before the
performance. Failure to comply with this 'rule
will be considered an automatic withdrawal from

the contest, with forfeiture of the entrance fee.

NOTE: This rule, which is in general use, is taken
from the Pittsburgh Drama League set up.

VII. Each group will be allowed one hour
during the afternoon of the day Of their perform-
ance for rehearsal, making it possible for the act-
ors to gauge their voices and become familiar with
the stage. Full dress rehearsal is not possible at
this time. '

VIII. All scenery, properties and effects of
each group must be at the theatre on the morning
of the- day it is to play. These must remain in
charge of the tournament committee until a de-
cision has been reached by the judges as to the
prize plays that are to be presented at the final
performances. Groups must remove properties
as soon as they are eliminated from the contest.
Transportation to and from the theatre is at the
expense of each group which is also responsible
for the care of costumes and properties.

IX. All plays will use the same drapes as a
background.

NOTE: Most tournament committees are desirOus Of
getting away from all ikinds and types Of stage scenery
and the expense Of elaborate settings. This rule is espe-
cially valuable when groups of different financial stand-

ing are competing.

X. N 0 persons are permitted backstage except
those connected with the play being presented at
the time.

NOTES Back stage space is always limited. Each
group should have full use Of the stage without any
handicap during the presentation Of their play. Groups
will wait in their dressing rooms until the time Of their
appearance when they must be ready tO take charge of
the stage as soon as the previous play is over.

XI. The preliminary contests will be on the
first . . . . nights, four plays given each night. The
preliminary judges will select the four best per-
formances and these four will be presented in the
final contest, usually held the first night follow-
ing the preliminaries. The committee will group
all plays entered as seems best from the stand-
point of artistically arranged programs.

XII. There will be two sets Of judges——One
for the preliminary contest and one for the final.
These will be selected by the Drama Tournament
Committee.

XIII. The cup will be awarded to the play
judged best by the final judges. The cup is to be

l

l:
572 L0 — THE POOR JUDGE! '.

The Dearborn, Michigan, Civic Institute of .
Drama uses the following more explicit and de 1

held by the winning group for one year. It will
again be competed for in the next tournament.

The group winning it three times, not necessarily
in successive tournaments, will become the perma-
nent owners.

Rules for Judging

The basis for judging seems to represent the
greatest difficulty in drama tournaments. Opinion
varies so widely that no two tournament rules
have identical distribution of points. The follow-
ing rules, chosen for their excellence and for the
variety which they demonstrate, may be helpful
to committees in deciding what rules best govern
their own conditions.

The National Little Theatre Tournament, held
in New York, is judged according to the follow-
ing standards:

Presentation, meaning interpretation or
“how well the idea of the play is gotten

over” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50%
Acting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..25%
Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15%
Selection of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..10%

The Pittsburgh Drama League, entering into
their ninth annual amateur players’ contest, offers.
the following rules:

Interpretation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40%
Acting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30%
Choice of play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..20%
Staging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..10%

The Los Angeles County Drama Association
Tournament of One-Act Plays is judged as
follows:

Interpretation, including characterization

and pantomime . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20%
Direction, including tempo . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30%
Presentation, including make~up, costuming

and scenic effect .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..20%
Diction, including voice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30%

At a recent conference of thirty drama direc—
tors among whom several had had tournament ex-
perience, the following rules were suggested:

Diction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..25%
(Play must be audible and understood)
Teamwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10%

(Meaning give and take, ability to play to—
gether, and that no one person may feature
himself at sacrifice of others.)

Interpretation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25%

(How well the director has presented the

meaning of the play.)
Acting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25%
General effect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15%

(Make-up, costuming, properties, scenery
must be appropriate for play.)

tailed type of score:
Presentation

1. Diction
(0) Could the actor be heard with difficulty (5)
clearly (10)?
((7) Was the diction of the actors fair (5), goo
(10), excellent (15)?

NOTE: Diction to cover pronunciation, accurate dialec
and fitting quality of voice.
2. Acting

(a) Was the individual acting of the_ members 0
the cast fair (5), good (10), excellent (15)?
(b) Was the acting of the group as a whole fai

(5), good (10), excellent (15)?
3. Setting

(a) Is the adaptation of the properties fair (5),
good (10), excellent (15)?
Interpretation

1. Was the interpretation of the play as a whole fai
(10), good (20), excellent (30)?
NOTE: Interpretation to 'be understood as the meaning

of the play as brought out by the actors and the degre
to which the audience realized it.

There is a difference in opinion concerning the
method of presenting the judges’ decision. In
some cases the judges are required to sign their
scorings and hand them to the chairman of the
tournament committee. In other instances the
judges meet for a short conference and discuss
the matter before the final decision is made. These
are questions which must be left to the tourna-
ment committee to decide. In case the judges use
the formal method of turning in their reports, we
strongly recommend that the chairman open the
sealed envelope, in which the scores have been
placed, in the presence of at least one judge. This
formality protects the committee from any criti-
cism. For, as we have said elsewhere in this ar-
ticle, tournaments are apt to breed a partisan
spirit that is not above making itself felt in un-
pleasant ways.

A tournament that culminated in an unusually
happy arrangement is described by Miss Dorothy
C. Enderis, Director, Extension Department,
Milwaukee Public Schools.

“We are topping off a most interesting dra-
matic contest tonight with a party at which the
judges will discuss the various plays. The judges
have picked from each cast the members who
seem most promising and with these as a nucleus
we are organizing an all-city dramatic group with
which we can do experimental and intensive
work. We are calling the same the ‘Milwaukee

(Continued on page 591)

   
  

Spiritual
Fellowship
With the

Unknown

Soldier

OT BY NAME, rank,
N creed or class, do we
know who he was in

life. All that we know
about the Unknown Soldier
is that he was a member of
the A. E. F., that he faced
the issues of good citizen—
ship on the battle front,
and that he gave the last drop of devotion to the
common cause. \Ve pay homage at his shrine be-
cause he symbolizes all that we know and feel
about faith, courage, devotion, patriotism and
sacrifice in the interest of the common good. But
what mockery it is to thus designate and pour out
our praise and supplications at the shrine of the
Unknown Soldier, if we fail in peace time to do
substantially what he did in war time! The
generals and other ofiicers played their conspicu—
ous and devoted parts in the \Vorld War, but in
the last analysis the War was won by the allied
forces because of the devotion to duty of the Un-
known Soldier. It is just so in peace time. Our
public officials may be ever so devoted and bril-
liant in their service to the common cause, but if
the Unknown Citizen fails in spirit and practice
to give of himself as did the Unknown Soldier,
the social, political and economic battles of peace
time will be lost to the forces that stand as the
enemies of good government and the social health

and security of the nation.

 

Courtesy Boy Scouts of America

In cities everywhere
we find them serving

By E. B. DEGROOT

Secretary
Boys Work Committee
International Rotary

Having o b s e r v e d, in
many situations, the Civic
Service work of Boy
Scouts, I am prepared to
say that we have in the
ranks of Scouting a count-
less number of boys who do
indeed carry on in the spirit
of the Unknown Soldier, in
the interest of the common good of their com-
munities and the nation. For the most part, Boy
Scouts who do civic service work for their com-
munities are unknown and unsung. They go to
the front and stick to their posts until the day is
won in all sorts of civic, social, educational,
philanthropic and patriotic enterprises, in the in-
terest of the common good. Thus they not only
express good citizenship in the service they ren-
der, but they enter into spiritual fellowship with
the Unknown Soldier. Here are four stories, told
in brief, of actual happenings which illuminate
the theme of this article.

Unsung Services

An international hero is on his way to town.
The Mayor of the city and the Governor of the
state announce a great public reception in his
honor. At once the emotions of more than a mil-
lion people are aroused to great heights. A pub-
lic park in which there is a big grandstand is
selected as the place for the public reception.

573

574 SPIRITUAL FELLOWSHIP WITH  UNKNOWN SOLDIER
"  "1.4 - '

Thousands of people will soon surge into the  breaks in the ranks of an orderly and happ

park to see and hear the international hero. Hur-
ried preparations are made not only for a fitting
reception but for handling the crowd. Thousands
of school children are to be given a preferential
place in front of the grandstand. Heads of the
police and military organizations of the commun-
ity hold a conference to perfect plans and make
assignments for handling the procession and the
crOwd. It is discovered that with all available
policemen, firemen and military forces on the job,
there is still need for organized and trained men
to do many things. “How about the Boy Scouts?”
“Just the group we need to complete the arrange-
ments,” said the generalissimo in charge of the
preparations. More than a thousand Boy Scouts
are willingly pressed into service—to do what?
Not to wield the authority of policemen; not to
escort the dignitaries in the procession; not to
parade in mass formation like the boys of the
R.O.T.G.; not to guard points close to the speak-
er’s stand where they could see and hear advan—

tageously to themselves;
not to strut on dress pa-
rade and thus “steal the
show,” in part, for their
unit. Boy Scouts serve
beyond the range of
newspaper cameras; be-
yond the range of the
voice of the international
hero; beyond the glam-
our of military pomp;
beyond the focal points
of intense interest. They
are the Unknown Sol-
diers of the occasion.
They are the reserves
who guarantee the suc-
cess of the plans of the
generals. They are
mighty in their incon-
spicuous service in the
interest of the common
good. They leave the
field of action unsung
and unknown, but the
generals in charge know
that the Boy Scouts have
rendered a volume and a
quality of unselfish serv-
ice without which there
might have been serious

Courtesy Boy Scouts of America

public assembly.

Because of favorable climatic conditions, th I
outdoor Easter Sunrise Service has reached stu
pendous proportions in several cities in Cali
fornia. In one of the cities of Southern Cali
fornia there is a great natural amphi-theatre
called a Bowl, nestling in a gulch formed by th 1
surrounding hills. The seating capacity of the
Bowl is 20,000, and the hillsides forming the Bowl
furnish standing room for countless other thou-
sands. Into this Bowl. is projected the Easter
Sunrise Service. Preparations for handling 50,-
000 people and 15,000 automobiles are perfected
in advance. Boy Scouts are called upon to stand
by the management—take full charge of usher-
ing, assist in parking automobiles; direct traffic
upon the main and secondary arteries of travel
to the Bow], establish and man first aid stations

At the Tenth Olympiad Boy Scouts performed inval-
uable service in helping to handle the vast crowds.

 

  
   
   
  
   
  
      
  

and otherwise “Be Prepared” to meet the emer-
encies of the occasion.

A special detail of more than one hundred
icked Scouts arrives at the Bowl the night be-
fore. They sleep under the canopy of the heav-
ens, and in the light of the twinkling stars ever-
lastingly associated with the heralding of the
birth of the Christ. These Scouts are up at three
o’clock next morning and go to their several posts
lof special assignment, chiefly that of directing
,the efforts of hundreds of other Scouts upon
their arrival for Civic Service duty. On come the
throngs of people. Courteously, calmly and un-
obtrusively, and with no other authority than the
Boy Scout uniform, people are guided and di-
l rected in orderly assembly. Members of the great
i chorus need help in finding their places. They
turn to Boy Scouts and find ready assistance. Old
people who have trudged their way to the Bowl
.drop from physical and emotional exhaustion.
They are taken out of the paths of traffic and are
adequately cared for by Boy Scouts. Traffic jams
of automobiles are untangled by the calm direc-
tion of Boy Scouts. Way is made through the
crowd for the dignitaries who arrive late.

l

Soon the Easter Sunrise Service is on and
concluded. Once again Boy Scouts swing into
action in almost countless ways. Once again the
Bowl is empty and the surrounding hills have re-
gained their natural state. The hundred and
more picked Scouts who have camped there over-
night, and given direction to hundreds of other
Scouts, gather up their blankets and start for
home, tired and hungry, but happy. They have
' seen 50,000 people give beautiful expression to
the culminating item of the Scout Law, and they
have rendered the fullest measure of Civic Serv-
ice duty to that end. They are only Boy Scouts
on Civic Service duty, unknown and unsung, but
nevertheless they are participating citizens who
have helped to engineer and manage a great com-
munity enterprise. They have rendered such val-
uable service as to gain for themselves spiritual
fellowship with the Un-
known Soldier.

The Community Chest, in
a city of over a million pop-

planning its annual campaign
for funds. The Chest in this
, city has never reached its
Ti goal, and this year there are

The Boy Scouts of America, in adopting
Ian for the boys of
America, has set or itself a gigantic
ulation, is in the throes of task. In the achievement of this obiec-
tive all who believe in scouting may help.
To this end the organization asks the
cooperation of all American citizens in
helping to carry through its plan for the must eam more than a

good of the country.

a ten year training

' SPIRITUAL FELLOWSHIP WITH THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER 575

to be extraordinary efforts to go over the top.
Every organized body in the community has been
appealed to lend aid. The Boy Scouts are not
new at the job, for year in and year out they, in
good number, have been the chore boys for many
weeks prior to and throughout the Chest cam-
paign. To gain a certain psychological effect
upon the public, the campaign managers wish to
place in a house-to-house distribution a striking
campaign booklet, all in one day and just at the
moment of opening the campaign for funds. It
will cost the Chest several hundred dollars to hire
the job done in accordance with the plans outlined.
How can the house-to-house distribution be done,
thoroughly and at no expense to the Chest?

Boy Scouts are the answer to the problem.
They are recruited and organized to cover the
entire city in one day. They distribute in house-
to-house visitation 250,000 campaign booklets.
Computing their time at no more than twenty-
five cents per hour, Boy Scouts save the Com-
munity Chest no less than $600.00 on this one
job . . . . and that just one of many jobs done for
the Chest extending over many weeks of consecu-
tive and faithful service. That year the Commun-
ity Chest campaign goes over the top for the first
time. Unknown and unsung, Boy Scouts have
played the part of participating citizens in a great
community enterprise. They receive no loving
cups, medals, scrolls or parchments for the serv-
ice rendered, but the thoughtful men and women
of the Community Chest organization know that
the Troops and Patrols from whence these Scouts
came were producing “men” — Community-
minded and community-service citizens; men like
unto the Unknown Soldier.

The Tenth Olympiad of the world-wide Olym-
pic Games is being held in Los Angeles. The
games are for amateurs, but their conduct and
management is in the hands, in the main, of a
vast army of professionals. There is nothing for
Boy Scouts to do directly to aid in this great en-
terprise. Olympic Village, where nearly 2,000
athletes live, is guarded and
serviced by paid workers. All
of the ushering at the sta-
dium is in the hands of paid
men. The games are, in the
last analysis, a stupendous
financial enterprise. They

million dollars to pay the
(Continued on page 591)

The
Costume Cupboard

With drama as important as it is in
the recreation program, many recrea-
tion departments are making special
provision For the care of costumes.

By HESTER PROCTOR

Supervisor, Educational Dramatics

San Francisco Recreation Commission

" OSTUMES!” Magic word that conjures up

C in everyone’s mind innumerable memor-

ies of gay good times. Every child and

most grown-ups as well, never lose the thrill of

“dressing-up,” whether it be in something old—

fashioned and different, or in a dress of the
latest style.

The San Francisco Recreation Commission has
equipped a building for the use of the Dramatic
Department in which all costumes are made, dyed
and stored. The building is of one story with
skylights admitting light, air and sunshine. At
one end are tubs, a gas plate and all facilities for
washing and dyeing costumes. At the other end
is the office “equipment, such as a desk, telephone,
and files. We also have a factory sewing machine
which is a constant joy because of its speed and
reliability.

On each side of the building are cupboards in
which the costumes are kept. On one side the
cupboards have shelves on which are piles of
bloomers of many colors and skirts of various
lengths. In fact, anything that is not hurt by
folding is stored on these shelves. On the other
side the cupboards have rods on which are hung
the court costumes and such others as are not
easily folded. On top of the CUpboards are stored
lights and many stage properties.

This building is the outcome of many years’
work and planning. At flrst the costumes were
kept in a closet at the City Hall. When this be-
came too small they were moved to the attic of
one of the field houses with a club room used

576

for sewing. This also was found to be un-
satisfactory, and the only solution seemed to
be a building such as we now have.

Originally most of the costumes were
made by the playground directors, who met
and sewed at the building on rainy days
and free mornings. At times the children
and parents helped in the sewing, but the
bulk of the work was done by the directors
who use the costumes. One playground
mothers’ club made and altered all costumes
used by that playground. For over a year
the costume making has been very differ—
ently handled.

A year ago last summer the city needed
occupation for many unemployed women. '
Some of these people could sew and since
that time there has been no lack of women
who have made costumes in return for the
necessities of life. They have been a most
willing and cheerful lot of people who have be-
come interested in recreation activities and are
now spreading our usefulness abroad. They have
greatly enjoyed seeing the costumes which they
have made used in programs. There have been
from four to eighteen women a week, and in the
year and a half an approximate total of 462 peo-
ple have been anything but unemployed for the
time of their assignment at the Drama Studio.

In dealing with large numbers of costumes
there are, of course, many details to be con-
sidered. The first of these is the budget, which
is so often a limited one. In costumes one must
find material that is substantial and yet gives the

 

 

111}; i (1.811

ill i I I‘hu. ' - r' 577

 

_,- nun—L.— __

In San Francisco an entire buildinq has been set aside for tho storing

desired effect. “e have found
that a good quality cheese-
cloth and unbleached muslin clu- “21:11 and wear
well, besides being adapted to man} t)1it'> Hi
costume. They can he stenciletl, made over and
dipped many times. l’aper earnlirie is also Useful
but fades if washed frequently tiinghams and
other light-fast materials are much more satis-
factory in a place such as this, where costumes
are used often and washed between each wearing.
For court costumes sateen has the necessar}
richness and yet it can be dyed and washed.

For spring pageants it here tiowers firt'tlumilmtt
we use crepe paper. For waists we use sateen
with a cheesecloth foundation skirt. ()n this n e
sew the paper in the desired form and color. In

and care of the thousands of costumes used by the Recreation Commission.

this way. when Flu liagier iueeuii'iw- turn it n." he
ripped off. the garment nashnl and He“ iiapei
sewed on when needed. “e fui'iu’ this .i \en
hiltihfilt'ttll') list inf irtlie part1

\l‘ter s-t'Hfl‘Ili war:- ut' \Illli't ting u-sttum s then
are “H\\ about three [llllll\-'lllti lT-Ili‘ whit-h the.
pla)g'riittiiil dirt-eth ma} ihmnsi- “hatei er is
suitable for their performances the costumes
are loaned only '1“ dtl‘uuih i-f 'illll‘lt‘lpdi play
grounds. [Isttallt the iliru‘tur tin-dun: unsttzmt‘s
mines to the dramatic studio as m call the utos.
tume building. and with wliati-xer assistance is
neeessary. with» out the desired autumn Tin-st-

'( "Irl'ullt. :3 ii' (“-4. "I

Giving the City Charm

By our planning of park areas we add

charm to a city or rob a city of it.

'E HEAR and see so much of
W the more spectacular side
of civic improvement that

we are apt to forget the simple

term “charm.” I sometimes

think that we even get into the
habit of clapping our hands to our pocketbook

whenever we hear of “municipal well being”
as though it always meant increased taxes.

Along comes the thought of “Giving the City
Charm,” and strange to say we are dealing
with something that although it is one of the
most precious attributes of a community, costs

nothing.

What Is Charm?

Often the first thing a speaker does is to
define his subject. It is not easy to define the
word “charm.” It is one of those terms like
“goodness” or “charity.” One sees the results
of it. It is something like trying to define
a soul or the omnipotent spirit.

Would you say that a city’s charm had to
do with the impressive side of city making?
N'o. Though it may accompany splendor some-
times, it is on an humbler and more simple
quality. Perhaps we can get at it just a little
closer by trying to answer what is charm in

a human being.

I am thinking of a play I saw quite a few
years ago in New York. Maude Adams and
Richard Bennett played most delightfully Bar-
rie’s play, What Every Woman Knows. Perhaps
it was the hero, John Strand; perhaps it was
someone else who asked the winsome Maggie
the question point blank, “What is charm?”
Maggie replied, “Oh, it’s a sort of bloom on a

woman. If you have it you don’t need to have

578

By P. N. EVANS
Superintendent of Parks

Sacramento, California

anything else, and if you don’t
have it, it doesn’t much matter
what else you have.”

Now there is this to reflect
about. The situation, both for
people and for cities, would be
discouraging could a certain amount of charm
not be acquired if one goes about it in the
proper way. Do not suppose that a city’s
chances of charm are lost if it is not sprung to
life with charm at the start. And babies, alas,
are not all born with a charm that will stay
with them after they acquire a personality.

While in the human being charm may be
said to come from demeanor, breeding, man-
ners, as a sort of aura that goes with pleasant-
ness and an adaptable disposition, in a town
or city it is the atmosphere. that comes of taste,
a frank handling of the materials at hand, an
orderly arrangement, and a courage to be in—
dividual without freakishness. One finds charm
in parts of Old Monterey, with its View of the
old cypress trees overshadowing the old Cus-
tom House. We find it in some of the old
adobes there. Here it is a charm of simplicity
and age. We find charm in some of our mod-
ern residential subdivisions where homes are
built without undue ostentatiousness, where
grounds are well arranged and planted attrac—
tively. Here it is a charm of harmony, of
tasteful building, and of good arrangement.

In Sacramento there are many street trees,
which offer beautiful and unusual street pic-
tures, as well as abundant shade in summer.
In that city, too, the camellia bush grows un-
usually well. The residents pride themselves
upon their street trees, and upon the camellias.
Here it is the charm of individuality—of the

unusual.

 

GIVING THE CITY CHARM 579

I think of the source of charm of some of
the older parts of Boston and old world cities
which I have visited. The streets were wind-
ing, some of the shops and closely built houses
did one thing and some another. The whole
scene took liberties at every turn. and one
found one’s self hastening on to discover what
interesting sight might be just around the next
corner. Here it was the charm of the unex—
pected. The charm of anticipation. The feel-
ing that the whole city held promise to the
imagination. At Brookside Park in Pasadena
there is to be found charm, particularly in the
actively used portions. And that is an acid
test for parks and playgrounds.

Now what is the application of all this to
the recreation person? To make these consid-
erations of value we need to apply them to
ourselves and to our work.

Parks Are Recreation Areas

\Ve are witnessing a change in terms and a
change in aims and motives in recreation work.
For example, parks have become known as

recreation areas, an im-
portant subject of dis-
cussion for recreation
workers. “I h i l e the
word “park” and the
word “playground”
will always have a dis-
tinet meaning, both are
recreation areas and
there is no park, no
matter if it is only a
doormat size and with
room for only one
tramp to sit in, which
does not have its recre-
ational value. We may
say its use is to look at,
but no park is just to
look at. It has a recre-
ative value if only for
that one tramp!

The element of rec-
reation is pervasive. it
enters into all public
pleasure areas. It is
only a question of how
active a type of recre-
ation may be offered,
and how demanding

 

"Charm is elusive but it is not too

hard to woo and win.
sell with using simple elements with
taste in arrangement-getting, harmony-
avoiding discord. By attempting to do
this we usually secure beauty. At least
we shall avoid actual ugliness."

the person who haunts it may be for bodily
exercise.

I speak as a park man, but I pray continu-
ally for the ability to get the playground man’s
point of view, too. It is highly necessary for
the park man and the playground man to get
on the same side of the fence. I may say that
I pray continually that the playground man
may get the park man’s viewpoint. \Vhat a
boon it would be on both sides! Is that putting
it too strong?

Sometimes in the past a situation like this
has been noted in some of the cities I have vis-
ited. \Ve use here extreme viewpoints, of
course, to illustrate the point. Says the play-
ground man, “The park man thinks only of
his flower beds and keeping the public off the
grass,” and the park man says with equal ve-
hemence, “There goes the playground man
putting a fenced-in corral in the most beautiful
part of the park scene.” Both need to get on
the same side of the fence, or possibly each
needs to exchange sides for awhile.

Any landscape scene, no matter how lovely,
is helped by the pres-
ence of people in it“.
Did you ever examine
the pictures in an art
gallery? You will no—.
tice there are few if
any scenes of nature
unassociated with hu-
man interest. \Ve see
the rustic fence or gate,
the result of man’s
handiwork. \Ve see the
cottage on the hillside
—-the lone fisherman,
and so on. It takes the
suggestion of a human
being somewhere to
give the landscape in-
terest. Just as the de-
lightful gardens of the
p a l a e e of Versailles
were designed under
Louis XIV’s direction
with the idea of their
appearance being aug-
mented in attractive-
ness by the presence of
hundreds of guests
wandering abou t in

It concerns it-

580 GIVING THE CITY CHARM

them, so the park designer should consider

that the'parks are made for the people and not

the people for the parks.

We want people in them by the score—by
the hundred. Parks cost a lot of money and
they should be used so that the city may get
its money’s worth out of them. When I say
“used” I do not mean “ab-used.” This some-
times happens. Parks should be used as we}!
as looked at. There is no finer sight on earth
than to see happy people at play. I may be an
extremist in liberality, but I find it hard always
to agree with the park caretaker’s attitude
when he fears all the boys ruin all open areas.

On a number of occasions one of our good
and faithful Sacramento park men, who cares
for a certain city square, comes to my door.
The moment I see him I know what he is after
and before he opens his honest mouth I say,
“I know. Charlie, the boys have been wearing
your plaza out again. Well, just soak that
place where they play so much and they will
move to another spot.”

“What!” he says, perplexed at me, “and let
them wear out another place!” and I say sooth—
ingly—only it doesn’t soothe Charlie——-“As
long as the worn patch doesn’t show up ter—
ribly from the street, don’t you think we’d
better let the boys play?”

If any of you are park men, you know that
if you see a much worn trail caused by hun-
dreds of feet crossing through a lawn you may
just as well put in a path first as last. It is
a good deal the same with play spots.

You and I, dealing with public open spaces,
can do our share in “Giving the City Charm.”
Let me propound a problem in logic‘ to you.
If it is true that one of the finest sights in the
world is to see children at play, and if parks
afford many opportunities for the establish—
ment of play spaces, is it not best so to place
and arrange and handle our play spaces that
while giving all the room that is needed for
play, they add to rather than detract from the
park’s appearance?

Playgrounds Can Add Charm to Parks

It can be done. Play apparatus can be put
in a city square without ruining it. If one
insists on a wire fence to go with it, that may
be another matter. Stockton has done it with'
excellent effect. There is just enough appar-
atus to provide for needs, no more. San Jose

has a fine playfield w1th a park—like edge, a
beautiful example of what other cities might
do. Charm may, and should, go hand in hand
with recreational development. An area need
not be ugly because it is a playground. Some
play directors, I fear, defend an unsightly area
by saying that it is safe and useful. So is a
broom useful, but one does not drag it into
the parlor when company comes.

In Colorado Springs recently a downtown
area that was about as useful as a doily over
a chair as far as serving any real purpose was
concerned, was made over so as to provide
recreation for rocque, chess players, bowls,
horseshoes, and other things. Whereas afore—
time it had two hundred visitors a day, now
it has five hundred, and I understand that the
appearance of the place is not harmed in the
least by the operation. '

We should have more major operations.

Several years ago I stepped ‘off a trolley car
in Philadelphia near Fairmount Park, one of
the largest and one of the most used parks in
the country. I cut through from the car to
the park by a path, and though I spent the
whole day in the park photOgraphing and
studying it, the picture that lasts most strongly
in my mind was the first one I saw. I came
upon a broad lawn surrounded by trees, and
there in the middle was a wading pool with a
hundred children wading and laughing and
splashing in it. Did the playground detract
from the charm of the park? No, it added to it.

When we see how well the problem of lo—
cating playground facilities in a park is han-
dled in Brookside Park at Pasadena, we realize
that this is done through an evident careful
cooperation of officials and planners in work—
ing out problems of use and appearance.

Let us not lose sight of the value of charm
to our cities. It is one of the most precious
assets our communities can possess. \Vhat is
it that takes thousands of Americans to Eu—
rope each year? Is it to see the banks, the fac—
tories, or the business establishments? It is,
you will grant, to absorb the charm of those
places where needful things have been made

beautiful.

As recreation officials you have it in your
power to detract much. You may make or you
may mar. Look for your opportunity and meet
it thoughtfully when it comes!

 

On St. Patrick's Day

When green's the only color

and the shamrock's supreme!

HERE IS NO limit to the

good times which the St.

Patrick party offers. No
other occasion affords 'such op-
portunity for the exercise of
the famous Irish wit. And what
decorations are more effective
than the green and the sham-
rocks of Ireland?

The Guests Arrive

Such a device as the following may be used if
desired to keep the guests in teams and facilitate
the playing of group games:

As each guest arrives he may be assigned to
one of four families—the Murphys, the Maloneys
the Mulligans or the McCarthys, keeping the
groups as even in members as possible. Each
family has its own insignia: Murphys—band of
green around the arm; Maloneys—large green
run around the neck; Mulligans—tall green dunce
hat; McCarthys—green bow under the chin.

As the guests arrive a letter is given each person
which he is asked not to show to anyone else.
\Vhen all the guests are gathered the signal is
given to begin. The first group to form the words
“Saint Patrick” wins. These sets of St. Patrick
letters are made, either cut out or just written on
printed pieces of paper, and there are enough for
all participants. Be sure that if forty-eight people
are present four complete sets are distributed.

These family or St. Patrick groups may act as
teams during the entire evening.

To match partners, potatoes cut from brown
cardboard are hidden, the girls’ in one room, the
men’s in another. On the men’s potatoes ques-
tions are written to be answered by some word
or words or expression containing green written
on one of the girls’ potatoes. After hnding a po-
tato, each man searches for the girl who holds the
answer to his question. She becomes his partner
either for the next game or for refreshments.

The I7th of March in the avenin'
Has been chosen by a few

To have a good old Irish light
And we're inviting you.

1.

2.

3.
Please come all ready for the fray; 4-
We want you on the scene. 
7.

8

9.

You'll find the place quite aisily;
'Twill all be trimmed in green.

Questions

delicious apple.

plum.

tree.

fountains in Vermont.

place where flowers are kept.
n inexperienced person.

dealer in fresh vegetables.
kind of a green we all want.
bird.

V>>>

>>>>>

10. A poison.
11. A famous artists’ colony.
12. Jealousy.

Austt'crs
Greening.
Green gage.

Evergreen.
Green mountains.

. Greenhouse.
. GreenhOm.
. Green grocer.

Greenback.
9 Green finch.

10. Paris green.
11. Greenwich Village.
12. Green eyes.

Before the refreshments are served a large hat
(green) is brought around. Each girl picks out a
small green hat while each boy picks out a white
pipe on which numbers have been written. The
boy finds the girl with the corresponding number
on her hat and they become partners for re-
f reshments.

wwomeywr

Games

Pig in the Parlor. If the family idea is used
one family at a time forms a circle, facing the
center with feet astride and touching the foot of
the next player, while the members of the oppos-
ing families try to roll a ball or balls into the cen-
ter from the outside, getting the pig (balls) into
the parlor. The family or group whose parlor
remains pigless for the longest time wins.

Irish Relay. Families or groups form in files,
each file facing a pencil and paper on a table or

581

582 ON 5 T. PATRICK’S DAY

some hard surface on which to write. On the
signal to begin the first person in each row runs
to the pencil and paper, writes a word, then car-
ries the pencil back to the second person in line
who runs up, writes another word, etc. The first
team to finish the sentence, “There is nothing too
good for the Irish” wins.

Snatch Paddy’s Pig. Each group forms one
side of a large square. From left to right each
family is numbered or given such names as Pat,
Mike, Jerry, Kitty, Maggie, Kathleen, etc. The
leader calls out the numbers or names and four
players respond, one from each family or group
who attempts to get the “pig” back to his side.
Score is kept. One point is scored each time the
pig is bl‘OUght over the line or if one side catches
the snatcher. Two groups may be used with a
smaller crowd.

Shamrock March. Contestants are lined up
as for a relay game, the first in each line being
given two large cardboard shamrocks. The sig—
nal to start is given and each of the first con-
testants places his foot on one of the shamrocks,
places the other shamrock one step ahead and then
puts his other foot on that, takes the other foot
off, puts that one step ahead and so on, continu—
ing in this manner to the goal. They now run back
giving the shamrocks to the next in line. Con-
testants are not allowed to shuffle along with both
feet on the shamrocks or to step off them.

Pig-Tail Race. Each group is in file forma—
tion. About twenty-five feet away is a pig-tail,
one for each group, braided with two shades of
green and one white strip of cambric one yard
long. On the signal to go the first person in line
runs up, unbraids the plait, braids it again and
runs back to tag of‘f number two and so on. The
line finishing first wins.

Irish Potato Snatch. Players form a circle
around potatoes which have been placed in the
center on the floor. (There is one less potato than
the number of players.) When the music stops
each player tries to snatch a potato. After each
snatch one potato is removed with the player who
did not secure one. These players sit down on the
side and clap their hands to the rhythm of the
music. The last one in the circle wins.

Pat’s Hat. A large hat is cut from green card—
board and pinned to a sheet which is hung over
a door. Each person in turn is given a shamrock

with a pin and attempts, blindfolded, to pin it
on Pat’s hat.

Snakes St. Patrick Drove Out of Ireland. A
pencil and paper are given each person on which
to write down the answers to the following:

1. Worn a few years back in winter time by women—Boa
2. Worn all the year around—Garter

3. Baby plays with it and never gets hurt—Rattle

4. An Indian wears it with comfort—Moccasin

5. Indian head penny—Copperhead

Matching of the Green. Six or eight samples
of different shades of green material are chosen.
These samples arecut in half, numbered and hung '
about the room. A key of the matching pieces is
kept by the leader. Paper and pencils are given
the players who attempt to match samples using
the numbers, such as 1-12 are from the same
piece. The person with the nearest correct list
w1ns.

_ Irish Juggling. For this trick provide four
shamrocks and four pipes cut from cardboard.
The leader tells the players that they must ar-
range the eight cards in such a manner in their
hand that when they put them on the table, one at
a time, by placing a card, slipping one to the bot—
tom of the pack, placing a card on the table and
slipping one, etc., the cards will alternate a sham—
rock and a pipe, a shamrock and a pipe, etc. The
trick is to arrange them in the following manner:
two shamrocks, one pipe, two shamrocks and
three pies.

Shamrock Confusion. For this stunt three
shamrock are used. The one who is starting the
game puts the three shamrocks on the table. He
then picks them up, counting each one aloud as
he does so, saying slowly “one, two, three.” Then
he lays them down again, counting “four, five,
six.” Next he picks two of them up, saying
“seven, eight.” There is one shamrock left on the
table. He then hands all three of the shamrocks
to another player and tells him to see if he can
count them just as he has done and have only one
shamrock on the table at the end of his count of
eight.

Fortune. Each guests receives an Irish po-
tato. The number of eyes in each potato is indi—
cative of his fortune. A chart on the wall tells
that (1) means foes; (2) presents; (3) friends;
(4) beau; (5) travel; (6) courtship; (7) wealth;
(8) broken heart; (9) happily married; (10)
single blessedness.

Blarney Race. Partners face each other
across the room. At a signal those on one side of

(Continued on page 593)

 

Wanted - Old Buildings!

They may seem hopeless at First, but
you'll be delighted with the result.

N DECEMBER the eleventh, Toledo, Ohio,

opened it's first city operated recreation

building with addresses by the Mayor, a
representative of the Council of Churches and
the editors of three daily newspapers, and with
the announcement of a schedule of activities for
children and adults which will keep the building
occupied from 10:00 A. M. to II :00 P. M.

Last October the city turned over to the Recre-
ation Department a well built three story brick
building in a congested neighborhood formerly
used as the medical school of Toledo University.
Through relief labor the building was cleaned,
painted, repaired and remodeled from cellar to
roof. Plantings were set out in a small space be-
tween the building and sidewalk. The rooms were
furnished almost entirely by gifts from individ-
uals and organizations. The Mayor supplied
gymnasium equipment; luncheon clubs equipped
rooms for club meetings; one citizen provided
tables and one hundred chairs for a large meeting
room, and individuals gave a piano, radio, office
furniture, clocks, pictures and games. The city
library established a branch. One room was
equipped as a reading room with papers and per-
iodicals. Another was furnished for musical
groups. A third was set aside for card and table
games, while a fourth was

devoted to handball. There

nasium classes for men and for women, and op-
portunities for an individual to enjoy pool, hand-
ball, woodworking, reading and similar activities.
Special activities have included a course for lead-
ers -in social recreation with seventy-five repre-
sentatives of churches, settlements and young
peoples’ organizations, and a course of lectures.

A Garage As a Social Center

In South Orange, New Jersey, half of the City
Garage has been converted into a social center for
the unemployed and others interested in attend-
ing. By assigning one of the workers to night
duty, the problem was solved of having someone
present all the time without additional cost. Since
the place is already heated the only expense is
sixty cents a night for electricity. Games, maga-
zines and a radio have been donated and passes to
motion picture theatres and football games have
been provided.

A Fraternal Hall Becomes a Recreation Center

Old Moose Hall in Belleville, New Jersey, has
been taken over by the Recreation Commissmn
and is being developed as a recreation center. The
owners of the building have rented to the Com-
mission two floors and are supplying the lumber
for the erection of hand-
ball backs and other ap-

was no stage and no room
large enough for basket-
ball or team games, but
the eighteen available
rooms furnished oppor-
tunity for many activities.

Regular groups include
a young peoples’ orches-
tra, children’s classes in
games and dances, gym-

Two things have been outstanding in develop-
ments in local recreation programs as recrea-
tion departments have Faced decreased funds.
One is the ingenuity which is being shown by
many recreation workers in using existing Fa-
cilities which normally would not be thought
of as possible assets. The other is the re-
markable increase in Facilities which made work
programs have made possible. In this brief
article mention is made or some of the new
recreation centers in the acquisition of which
both ingenuity and the wise planning of mode
work programs have had a port.

paratus and for repairing
the building. All of this
work, including special
wiring, was done by the
unemployed.

The program provides
periods for every age
group and an afternoon
and evening for colored
citizens. On the First floor

583

584 WANTED—OLD BUILDINGS!

there is an entrance hall and combination gym-
nasium and auditorium with stage and balcony;

on the second floor a large room about forty feet .

square and another room approximately half this
size. The large room contains a ping-pong table
—two more tables are being made—and one card
table. Benches will be placed around the wall.
Adjoining is the exercise and play room with
gymnasium equipment.

A minimum of ten men have been assigned
from the unemployed to aid the Superintendent
of Recreation, and a schedule has been made out
which makes it possible for the building to be
open from nine in the morning until eleven at
night. A local paper, reporting on the progress
of the project, speaks of it as “an employed and
unemployed center plan-

A request has been placed with the United
States District Attorney to make available to the
Board for equipping the centers some of the fur-
niture taken in raids of speakeasies. Both centers
are located in sections badly in need of such
buildings.

In East Cleveland, Ohio, forty-five unem-
ployed high school graduates have established
club rooms in a garage. The project is being
sponsored by the East Cleveland Commission on
Unemployed Young Men, including the Y.M.C.
A., school and church organizations. The garage
will be used for the present only as a recreation
room but later it is planned to add a steam presser
and a carpenter shop for the use of the members.
The group has been formally organized with

elected officers.
Centers have been estab-

ned by the employed, built
by the unemployed and
used by both.”
Centers in Other Cities
In Lima, Ohio, a com-
munity center has been
opened for the unemploy-
ed under the auspices of
the Recreation Board. The
center occupies an old
building, vacant for a
number of years, which
was once an armory and
IS now owned by the
Knights of Pythias. The
building which has been

To help meet the needs of the younger un-
employed men in Liverpool. England. the
Council of Voluntary Aid is establishing cen-
ters on Merceyside known as Service Clubs.
There are now over thirty of these Clubs. or
occupational centers, housed in various build-
ings. Two are in disused industrial schools;
others are in stables. haylotts, garages and
in a derelict club. In starting a center a
nucleus of about a dozen young men is
chosen. These members do as much as pos-
sible of the necessary repairing of the build-
ings, and all the painting and decorating.
The two occupations with which all centers
begin are carpentry and cobbling. Then
come clothes repairing, lino cutting. toy mak-
ing. wool mat and rope mat making, metal
work, book binding and carpet weaving.

lished in a number of the
communities of Westches-
ter County, New York.
In Ossining, for example,
a building provided by the
Board of Education has
been taken over by the
Recreation Commission
which has a gymnasium
and various game rooms.
Another portable building
belonging to the schools is
also available.

In an old building next
to Madison House, New

cleaned and reconditioned

by unemployed labor, includes a gymnasium 180’
by 120’, balcony 40’ by 120’, and two rooms about
20’ by 20’ which are being equipped, one as a
reading room, the other as a quiet game room. The
balcony will be used for such games as ping-pong
and pool, and a radio will be installed here. Much
of the material, furniture, books and games has
been donated. Tickets will be given to those reg-
istered at the employment bureau. They will be
used merely for identihcation purposes and will
not be demanded for admission.

In Paterson, New Jersey, a building owned by
the city has been secured by the Board of Recre-
ation for the use of the unemployed. Eight men
from the Emergency Unemployment Bureau have
been assigned to prepare the center for use.
Rooms for reading and for quiet games will be
provided. The second center, a vacant store, has
been secured through a building loan association.

York City, a group of
older boys have established headquarters which
they have furnished and decorated. Here they
are carrying on a crafts program and are making
book shelves and other articles which they are
selling whenever a market can be found. For
their athletic and social activities they are attend-
ing Madison House.

“Free Time Activities for Unemployed Young
Men,” issued by the Association Press, New
York City, tells of the rehabilitation of an empty
storeroom in Yakima, Washington, as a center
for unemployed young men. The free 1186 of the
room was secured from the owner. Furniture
stores were asked to supply used tables and
chairs, and folding chairs were secured from the
Chamber of Commerce and park benches from
the city. A radio was loaned by a hardware store
and a piano by a music house. Games, magazmes

( C ontinued on page 593)

 

The Need

A significant prophecy from the
for

American Institute of Architects

Recreation Buildings

"We are going to turn our attention to parks, municipal and national, and
to the building of swimming pools, outdoor gymnasiums and country hotels."

 

CHANGE will take place in buildings, and
A “this change will be not only in style but in

kind,” it is declared in a report of the Com-
mittee on Industrial Relations of the American
Institute of Architects, of which William Orr
Ludlow is chairman.

“The increase in leisure time will create a de-
mand for the kind of building that leisure time
will need. The kind of building that will be re-
quired first will certainly not be the skyscraper.
Dwellings and institutional buildings, schools,
hospitals, churches, and similar non-commercial
buildings will probably lead the way.

“There is, however, a new factor in the situa-
tion that will mean building along another line.
The new factor is shorter hours of labor and
longer hours of leisure. A ‘five-day week’ is
practically an accomplished fact, and perhaps the
‘four-day week’ is just around the corner, for we
shall keep on inventing machinery to replace
handwork.

“Whether the outcome is ‘live days’ or ‘four
days,’ the average man and woman will have an
unprecedented amount of leisure time that is go-
ing to be filled with recreation and amusement.
Already the automobile has changed our manner
of living, and it will be the means of making the
greatest use of out-of-doors and the buildings
that go with it. The time is not far away when
the heart of our great cities will be abandoned as
places for residence, and will be given over to of-
fice buildings, centers for the distribution of
freight and passengers by rail, bus and airplane.

“Amusements, shops, and residences are al-
ready beginning the process of decentralization,

as one can readily see by the establishment in su-
burban towns of branches of our department
stores, of moving picture houses and legitimate
theaters, and by the popularity of out-of-town
apartment houses. Even in these times, when
there is apparently no money for building, people
have been building private residences in suburbs
and country.

“City congestion reached its limit in 1929, and
the many nostrums which simply seemed to make
the disease worse are giving away to the obvious
cure—taking the people away from the city and
not into it. It is probable that skyscrapers will
not be built for many a long day. We are going
to turn our attention to parks, municipal and na-
tional, and to the building of swimming pools,
outdoor gymnasiums and country hotels.

“The additional leisure will also promote build-
ings of many sorts for indoor recreation and
amusement. Theatres and movie houses will
Hourish, great gymnasiums for football, baseball,
tennis, skating and the like will be built to make
outdoor sports possible indoors. for winter and
at night. Our colleges, schools, hospitals and
charitable institutions are even now at full ca-
pacity, and better times and more available money
will bring about a great expansion of these and
the new housing necessary to accommodate them.

"Wiping out the Eighteenth Amendment, with-
out the return of the saloon. but with more gen-
eral leisure, may well bring about the European
way of drinking. and we shall be building beer
gardens, dance pavilions, and music halls.

(Confirmed on page 593)

 

Courtesy Detroz't Recreation Department

World at Play

 

STIMULATION of

recreation and physi-
cal education work in
Mexico has resulted
from the Mexican participation in the Interna—
tional Recreation Congress held in Los Angeles
last July, states a Mexican newspaper. This is
particularly true of Monterey, the capitol of the
State of Nueva Leon, which sent six delegates
to the Congress. The Director General of Pub—
lic Instruction is planning a series of sports events
for adults. There is a particular interest in dis-
tance running in the live, eight and ten thousand
meter events. A new building for the Depart-
ment of Physical Education contains two gym-
nasiums, one large enough to accommodate three
games of basketball for practice periods, or to
accommodate one game and 2,500 spectators for
exhibition purposes. The building contains also
dressing rooms and showers for men, women and
juvenile work. The entire plant is to be used for
social recreation as well as for athletics. The new
building occupies an entire block adjoining the
Plaza de Zaragoza, and will cost 125,000 pesos.
It is expected to be the most complete recreation
structure in the entire Republic of Mexico.

Mexico Profits by
Recreation Congress

BUTLER University
in Indianapolis, Indi-
ana, has scheduled

courses for the utili-
zation of leisure. Hobbies and avocations will be

586

A College to Teach
Use of Leisure

encouraged by the courses which have for their
purpose the preparation of individuals to utilize
to the fullest the spare time that will be theirs in
the new social order predicted. These courses
will be offered during the evening so that em-
ployed as well as unemployed may take advantage
of them. Gardening, astronomy, photography,
radio, birds, politics, appreciation of art and after
dinner speaking are among the studies outlined.
Other courses will encourage interest in religion,
philosophy, the languages, history, psychology
and the laboratory sciences.

A SUM MARY of
construction projects
undertaken by the Los
Angeles Playground
and Recreation Department in 1932 shows a total
of $451,937 spent in improvements to the mu-
nicipal playgrounds and recreation centers ef-

Construction Projects
in Los Angeles

fected under terms of the Department’s $1,000.- I

000 unemployment relief bond issue voted in
1931. The balance of the bond fund was applied
to the construction program of that year. The
projects included the swimming stadium, seven
community buildings and field houses at the mu-
nicipal playgrounds, with three additional struc-
tures of this type being erected at the present
time. In addition, a dozen tennis courts were in-
stalled together with other facilities, such as wad—
ing pools, children’s play apparatus, and adult
recreation facilities. A number of existing build—

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY 587

ings and facilities were repaired and remodeled.
Municipal beaches received extensive improve-
ments, Cabrillo Beach having been developed into
one of the finest seaside recreational areas on the
Pacific Coast through the addition of a bath house
and community recreation building, walks, drives,
landscaping, pergolas, picnic facilities, and chil-
dren’s playground.

From Swamp to Playground—Hellrung Play-
ground in Alton, Illinois, is the only play area in
the city definitely set aside permanently as a play-
ground. One hundred fifty yards long and about
100 yards wide, it is located in the inside of a
block. A short time ago it was a dump full of
stagnant water. \Vith the help of twenty-five un-
employed men who worked for nearly a month,
the dump has been converted into an attractive
ground. Interested citizens in the neighborhood
have conducted a .campaign to secure funds to
purchase two adjoining lots.

Made Work Projects—A new nine hole mu-
nicipal golf course is nearing completion in Bal-
timore, Maryland, ten years ahead of time be-
cause of the unemployment relief program. Two
hundred and sixty acres at Mount Pleasant Park,
purchased several years ago and originally in-
tended as a bird sanctuary, have been cleared of
underbrush and converted into a golf course. The
budget of the Park Department would not have
made this possible had it not been for the labor
furnished by the Emergency Work Bureau. From
400 to 700 men have been given work through
the project.

San Diego, California, has also been making
use of relief labor which has resulted in the build-
ing of a new golf course, bridle paths and other
major features in Balboa Park, the construction
of a new district playing field and swimming pool
which when completed will cost nearly $90,000
and will give the city one of the finest playing
field parks on the Coast.

In the winter of 1931-32, $5,000 was raised in
Red \Ving to provide work for the unemployed.
The project chosen was the landscaping of the
old stone quarry in Memorial Park. The former
quarry is now a beautiful rock garden with park-
ing places where visitors may view the landscape
for miles up and down the Mississippi Valley.

A Church Centered Recreation Institute—
\Vith church executives and recreation leaders of

LEADERSHIP
recreation leaders at entertainments. parties.

A N D G A M E
By CHARLES F. SMITH
Instructor of Recreational Leadership
Teachers College. Columbia University
I 7“ games and recreational arrivities for use by
holiday celebrations. camps. schools. playgrounds
and .community centers. Instructions for leading an
activity included with its description.

Endorsements by National Leaders

JOHN H. FINLEY, National Recreation Association: “A
notable service to the recreation ntoeetnent."

JESSE FEIRING WILLIAMS, President of the American
Physical Education Association: "The most complete and by all
standards the best book on this aterial in English."

DEAN WILLIAM F. RUSSELL, Teachers College:
“Mr. Smith. an outstanding leader in the whole ield of play
and games. has made a notable contribution in this new M"

I80 Him. 658 pages $2.50

I THE most complete, up-to-date
and authoritative information in
English today.

Do-dd, Mead t. 69., 449 Fourth Avenue, H.

many different denominations participating, the
Los Angeles Church Centered Recreation Insti-
tute was held January 19th and 26th. Demonstra-
tions of recommended activities for churches were
held and there were addresses on such subjects
as cultural activities in the church pr0gram and
service activities for church young people. The
institute was sponsored by a committee repre-
senting churches of all denominations and the
city’s Recreation Department.

Successful Drama Groups—Last season was
the most successful one which the Outing Club
Players of Glens Falls, New York, ever had.
Three players were given: "The Show-Off," “To
the Ladies,” and “The Perfect Alibi.” A num-
ber of steps were taken which added greatly to
the success of the program. First, a permanent
director was secured; second, a permanent prop-
erty connnittee was organized, and third, two full
sets of scenery were purchased.

At the Church of All Nations on New York’s
Bowery, a group known as the “Melting Pot
Players” has been organized and over forty young
people are producing experimental plays as recre-
ation because they love the theatre. Carl Glick,

588 WORLD AT PLAY

 

A full
LOAD . . .

means a terrific strain on a Giant Stride—
or on any other piece of playground
equipment.

Purchasers of playground equipment know
the importance of selecting units specially
constructed to carry the full load.

EVERWEAR Equipment is designed to
give unusual factors of safety and dura-
bility—it is not built down to a price,
yet is low in cost.

Ever Wear

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

     
  

 
 

Safe, beneficial action is provided by the
255 different types, sizes, and units of
recreation apparatus found in the splendid
EverWear line.

    
   
     

An outfit for every play purpose. The
design and details of construction insure
safety and durability. Investigate them.

      
    

Have you read the information found on
the inside front and back cover pages of
the EverWear catalog No. 23? If you
do not have this splendid book, write for
your capy.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.
Springfield, Ohio

 
       
   
   

 

Everett B. Sherman

The sudden death on December 10, 1932, of
Mr. Everett B. Sherman, Superintendent of
Parks and Recreation of the City of New Bed-
ford, Massachusetts, brought to an untimely close
a long and useful public service. From early in
1919 to the end of 1932 Mr. Sherman had served
as executive of the New Bedford Park and Rec-
reation Department. During this period several
valuable properties were added to the park and
recreation system ; many major improvement pro-
jects were launched and successfully carried out;
most of the recreation facilities now possessed
by the department were planned and constructed
and the beauty of the parks greatly enhanced. It
was during his regime that the city assumed re-
sponsibility for providing playgrounds under
leadership.

Mr. Sherman had executive ability of a high
order and the faculty of inspiring a fine sense of
loyalty and ideals of service in his associates. He
enjoyed to an unusual degree the confidence of
the members of the Park Department and of the
general public.

founder of the San Antonio Municipal Theatre, is
their director. Daniel Frohman, Hilda Spong and
Mabel Foote Hobbs are among those interested
in the group. 'A new and provocative play, “Ene—
mies at Home,” was the first offering of the play—
ers early in December.

American Physical Education Association
to Hold Annual Convention—From April 25th
to 29th the American Physical Education Asso-
ciation will hold its thirty—eighth annual conven-
tion in Louisville, Kentucky. The convention
proper will open officially on Wednesday noon
and close Friday night, thus making possible a
full week-end for visiting historic places in and
around Louisville. The schools, the City Recrea—
tion Department and other local groups will hold
a number of demonstrations. Further informa-
tion may be secured from H. T. Taylor, Local
Convention Manager, Board of Education.

Recreation Section at A. P. E. A. Meeting-—
The program of the Eastern District Convention
of the American Physical Education Association
to be held in Springfield, Massachusetts, April
5th to 8th, has a recreation section meeting on'
Thursday, April 6th at 9 :30 in the First Congre—

 

THEY VOTED “YES” FOR RECREATION 589

gational Church. John C. Kieffer, Division of
Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia
Board of Public Education, is chairman of the
section. Ernst Hermann, Director of Recreation,
Newton, Massachusetts, will discuss the subject,
“The Individual Activities of Childhood Influence
to a High Degree the Complete Enjoyment of
Later Life.” James A. Moyer, President, Na-
tional Commission on Enrichment of Adult Life,
will talk on “Recreation in Relation to the En-
richment of Adult Life,” and Arthur T. Noren
of the National Recreation Association will have
as his subject, “Selecting Games to Fit the In-
terest, Abilities and Needs of Children.” There
will be a recreation demonstration on April 5th.

Play Streets
(Continued from page 560)

with the Bronx and lower west side of Manhat-
tan a close second.

The equipment which was purchased proved
excellent for play street use and withstood the
wear and tear of over fifty days of hard service.
Shuffle board met with great favor on the part
of the boys, while paddle tennis proved popular
with the girls. During the months of August and
September games of indoor basketball on a box
ball court were introduced on a number of the
streets of the Bronx and Manhattan.

The demonstration proved to be both practical
and economical.

They Voted "Yes" for Recreation
(Continued from page 564)

The committees having been formed in July
and August, frequent contact was maintained with
them by the recreation board. They were sup-
plied with campaign material outlining the exist-
ing recreation program and giving the principal
talking points for recreation at this time, particu-
larly in Parkersburg.

Strategy in Parkersburg differed from that in
Canton with respect to the tax feature. In Par-
kersburg the question at issue was renewal of
the existing levy, the Board of Education hav-
ing decided to conduct a referendum on it. The
campaign was conducted as an attempt to secure
a vote of conhdence. Little reference was made
to the tax feature in view of the general propa-
ganda conducted in the newspapers and business
interests for tax reduction.

Diamond Horseshoe Courts are easily installed. Can

be used indoors or out. Stake tilted at proper angle
toward opposite court.

Also a complete line of pitching shoe accessories
and many styles of horseshoes. The Eagle Ringer

illustrated below is the leader of the line.

Write for information. We'll be glad to help you
lay out your courts.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE Co.
4610 Grand Avenue, Duluth. Minn.

EAGLE RINGER

 

Rallying the Vote

As far as was known there was no organized
opposition to the recreation program. Hence every
care was taken not to arouse such opposition. Ef-
fort was centered on getting to the polls voters
favorable to recreation and swinging over those
who were lukewarm or in doubt. No time was
wasted in arguing with people who were opposed
to the continuance of the levy.

In response to a letter from the chairman of
the board the principal organizations of the city
gave time to speakers advocating the recreation
measure. Most of the speaking was done by two
of the board members, the principal of the high
school, the principal of the junior high school, a
prominent member of the Junior League, a for-
mer superintendent of recreation and the exist-
ing executive, D. D. Hicks. Reports of all activi-
ties were given the public through the papers and
endorsements of groups and individuals were
solicited and made public. During the final ten
days of the effort publicity was intensified, edi-
torials were secured, the approval of influential
men and women was quoted in the press, and ex-
hibits of handcraft, nature work and photographs

590 THEY VOTED “YES” FOR RECREATION

send for

P LAYGRO U N D
CATALOG

Our catalog shows one of the most complete

lines of safe and durable playground equip-
ment ever offered. Investigate what we have

to offer when in the market for play devices.

American Playground Device 00.
ANDERSON. INDIANA

were put on view in downtown store windows.
One of the clinching efforts during the final drive
consisted of letters to members of the commun-
ity groups which had recently opened community
centers inviting their support and urging them to
solicit the votes of their friends, relatives and
neighbors. “I feel that this was valuable to us
since these people were the ones who had de-
rived great benefit in the past years and who were
anxious to be maintained,” writes Mr. Hicks.
Similarly team captains and managers of
leagues and all who had benefited by the picnic

Observations and Tests

Of Swimming at the
l932 Olympic Games

By THOMAS K. CURETON, JR., B. 8..
M. P. E., Professor of Applied Physics
and Animal Mechanics, also Director of
Aquatics and Coach of Swimming at the
International YMCA College, Spring-
field, Massachusetts.

M arch issue

Journal of
Physical Education

347 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

Price. $3.00 Overseas and Canada. $3.25

Single Copies. 3 5c.

 

and social recreation service and other services of
the department were urged to assist in the cams
paign. The final vote was three to one for the
measure, every precinct giving a favorable

majority.

The Battle Creek Referendum

The vote in Battle Creek was a referendum
called by the City Commission on the continuance
of municipal apprOpriations for the sports and
recreation program sponsored by the Civic Recre-
ation Association. This quiet campaign centered
chiefly around newspaper publicity, talks before
numerous organizations, the personal work of the
thousand members of the Civic Association, and
the cooperation of the Parent-Teacher Associa—
tion. The Civic Association, made up principally
of members of basketball and baseball teams and
their officers, worked very successfully for votes
among their neighbors and friends.

The newspapers gave excellent news and edi-
torial support. There was no organized opposi-
tion, although tax reduction was very much in
the air.

The success of these campaigns at a time like
this seems to show that' however much citizens
are interested in economy in governmental affairs,
they stand ready to sustain good recreation pro—
grams when given the opportunity to exPress
their convictions.

A Bag O'Tricks Party

(Continued from page 568)

dian’s son but the big Indian was not the little Indian's
father. What relation were they?

(7) Two men living in cities a hundred miles apart
rode toward each other on their bicycles at the rate of
ten miles an hour. A Hy sitting on the forehead of one
of them started off at the same time Hyin'g fifteen miles
an hour. He flew back and forth between the two men
until he died of exhaustion just as the two men passed
each other. How many miles did he travel?

(8) A bookworm ate its way from the first page of
the first volume of a set of books to the last page of the
last volume. The inside of each .bodk measured two
inches and each of the covers one-quarters of an inch.
The set consisted of twenty volumes. How many inches

did he travel?

The Answers:

(1) He fills the five. then empties that into the three—
quart measure. He now has two quarts in the five-
quart measure. After emptying the three-quart measure,
he pours the two remaining quarts into it from the five-
quart measure. Then he fills the five-quart measure
again and pours off one quart to fill the three—quart

 

A BAG O’TRICKS PARTY 591

measure. Four quarts now remain in the five-quart
measure.

(2) The prisoner was his son.
(3) It took the snail sixteen days.

(4) Twice 4 equals 8 and plus 20 equals 28. If
1/7, the 4 dead ones remain, then 24 flew away.

(5) The boy who was tagged number six turned the
tag around so as to convert six into nine and then the
numbers were arranged into 931 which is divisible by
seven.

(6) The big Indian was the little Indian’s mother.

(7) It took the men five hours to travel one-half the
distance. The fly was traveling fifteen miles an hour
so he covered seventy-five miles.

(8) Most people don’t realize that the books are
backwards when put in a bookcase in their regular order.
The first page of the first volume is next to the last
page of the second volume instead of vice versa as would
be expected. Therefore, the bookworm eats his way
only through one cover of the first and last volumes.
The distance he travels is forty-five and one-half inches.

Refreshments

Simple refreshments served in buffet style
would be most appropriate for this kind of a
party. A center piece for the buffet or the table
on which the refreshments are placed may be a
bouquet of vegetables, a head of cabbage or a
cauliflower surrounded by beets, carrots and
onions with parsley taking the place of the fern.
The refreshments should consist of dainty sand-
wiches, coffee and doughnuts and nuts and candy.
Hide among the real refreshments some April
Fool ones. A few rings of raw cotton may be
dipped in batter and fried int‘o doughnuts. April
Fool caramels can be made by cutting paraflin in
squares and coating with chocolate. Chocolate
chips may be made by dipping tiny pieces of wood
in melted chocolate. Brown paper shredded will
make a realistic meat filling for a sandwich. Don’t
have too many “fakes” or your guests will be on
their guard and those you have prepared will lose
their point. If the group it not too large a dozen
or so will insure plenty of laughter.

Lo - The Poor Judge

(Continued from page 572)

Players.’ Each member of the Milwaukee Play-
ers must also be actively connected with a social
center drama club, and carry back to his group
what he gains at the meetings of the Players.”

So much of the value of the tournament can
be preserved and so much dissatisfaction can be
dispelled by allowing the judges to tell repre-

sentatives of the different groups wherein they
fell short and why the winning play was superior,
that it is our hope that some discussion of the
SOrt will become part of every tournament pro-
cedure, especially when the participants are
young people.

Spiritual Fellowship With the
Unknown Soldier

"'

(Continued from page :13)

expense of organization, management and con-
duct. Boy Scouts, like other groups of citizens,
are denied free admission, even if willing to w0rk
within the arena. Traffic arrangements and safe-
guards have been worked out far in advance, and
policemen only are entrusted with this exacting
job. The overseas delegations of athletes are met
at the railroad stations and ushered to Olympic
Village in special automobile buses, escorted by
motorcycle policemen.

Great as the Olympic Games are, and the cen-
ter of universal attraction, the community is alive
with many other attractions and events. Great
national and international conventions are being
held as accessories of the Olympic Games. A

The New

C A M P I N 6
Magazine

The ogicial Journal of the Camp

Directors’ Association of America

For recreational leaders—here is
timely opinion. eXperience and
news of camp experts and the
camping world.

25 cents a copy . . $2.00 a year

CAMP DIRECTORS’

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
551 FIFTH AVENUE

New YORK CITY

 

592 SPIRITUAL FELLOWSHIP WITH THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER

 

_______________.__———-
Special Certificates and College Degrees
for Students and Teachers of

Physical Education and
Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION
July 3 to August 11

   
     
   
   
   
    

Wide variety of graduate, and under—gradu-
ate courses. Prominent coaching staff.
Modern gymnasium. An ideal env1ron-

ment for health and study.

Special Bulletin on Request I
Address Director of Summer Session

The Pennsylvania State College
State College, Pa.

    
       
     
     

stupendous pageant— “California Welcomes the
World”—is held in the Hollywood Bowl. This
event is so appealing to the public and so over—
whelmingly attended, it must be repeated within
a few days to satisfy the thousands of people un—
able to gain entrance to the first performance. A
new state building in Los Angeles is being dedi-
cated. Exposition Park in which the great Olym-
pic Stadium is located, seating 105,000 people, is
the scene of a colorful Olympic tree planting
ceremony. All of these events are attended by
city, state, national and international dignitaries,
and a multitude of common people. The most
distinguished members of the International Com-
mittee of the Olympic Games attend and partici—
pate in these events. While Boy Scouts are not
permitted to take a direct hand in the conduct and
management of any of the Olympic Games events,
they are overwhelmed with calls for service in
support of the accessory events. Early and late
they rush hither and yon, doing their bit as par-
ticipating citizens in helping their city welcome
the world. The public press is too busy announc-
ing hourly and daily events and chronicling the
endless story of the Olympic Games, to pay any
attention to the hundreds of Boy Scouts on Civic
Service duty. The spotlights, camera and news-
reels are upon the committees, distinguished in-
dividuals and the record-breaking athletes. Boy
Scouts are in the background serving patiently,
faithfully and arduously in almost countless capa—
cities. Here again the Boy Scout, in his civic
service duties well performed, holds spiritual fel-
lowship with the Unknown Soldier. The host city
of this world event, the Tenth Olympiad, could
not have handled the vast number of public events
in such praiseworthy manner without the services
of the unknown and unsung Boy Scout.

The Objective of the Boy Scouts

It is the belief of thousands of men in this
country that the training a boy receives while a
Scout does help him to become a useful citizen.
It is in pursuit of this need that the Boy Scouts
of America has set before itself a gigantic task,
the objective of which is to make it possible for
at'least one of every four boys in this country to
have the benetits of Scout training for a four
year period. It is proposed that special training
in community welfare shall be given to these
boys as a result of which standards of citizen-
ship shall be raised to a higher plane of under-
standing.

President Hoover recently presented to the
Boy Scouts of America a vital statistic in the
fact that whereas we deal with one million boys
there are ten million who should be Scouts and
have the values of Scout training. This chal-
lenge was seriously accepted and as a result what
is termed as the “Ten Year Program” was
adopted. By this the Boy Scouts of America
hope, through the cooperative effort and the sup-
port of the American people, within a period of
ten years to bring about conditions so as to in-
sure in America that one of every four new male
citizens shall be a four year Scout trained man.

Those men in Scouting who are giving leader-
ship have pledged their support. One of the first
letters received after the announcement of the
plan was from a Scoutmaster near New York
who wrote: “In ‘these days of difficulty, when
we read so much pessimism, by men of professed
learning and responsibility, it is gratifying to
learn that the Boy Scouts of America is meet—
ing this challenge with resolution and fOresight.
It is likewise an inspiration to oneself to be able
to feel a part of this effort.’

The Costume Cupboard

(Continued from page 577)
are then listed, packed in boxes and delivered
with a duplicate list. When the costumes are re-
turned the list is carefully checked to prevent
loss.

The returned costumes are put into laundry
baskets and washed or cleaned as the case may be.
They are then sent back to their respective cup-
boards and are ready for use again. So all
through the year costumes come and go. They
are used for many occasions, and the more they
are used the happier we are as it justilies the
money spent in materials.

 

ON ST. PATRICK’S DAY 593

On St. Patrick's Day

(Continued from page 582)
the room run to the others and each gives her

partner an envelope containing one easy word
and a pencil. The partner must open the envelope
and write a complimentary couplet as quickly as
possible, using the word he finds in the envelope
for the rhyme. \V hen the couplet is finished the
girl rushes back to her original place against the
wall. The first one back wins.

Balloon Relay Race. The leader of each line
receives a green balloon. At the signal each per-
son must pass it backwards over his head. When
it reaches the end of the line, all turn and pass it
back to the head again. If anyone drops the bal-
loon he must pick it up, return to the line and
pass it.

Irish Washerwomen. Two lines are formed
with two in front of the line at about ten feet
away holding up a clothesline. The first in each
line has a basket in which are three articles of
clothing and clothespins. At the signal the first
in each line pins the clothes on the line and the
second takes them off, and so on.

Refreshments

The refreshments may carry out the St.
Patrick’s Day idea in the color scheme and in the
food itself. The place cards may be green gum
drops with little shamrocks stuck in them. Irish
club sandwiches may be served consisting of
toast, roast pork and lettuce. Or an Irish salad
may be used consisting of potatoes with parsley
to add the green. A green gelatin salad is attrac-
tive and easy to make. Plain ice cream may be
made gayer by the addition of a jaunty sham-
rock and tastier by the use of mint sauce. Olives,
green frosted cakes and assorted green mints will
add in the color scheme.

Wanted—Old Buildings!

(Continued from page 584)

and newspapers were given by interested citizens.
These gifts provided club room facilities for sev-
eral hundred men a day. One of the men who
was a barber cut hair free for the group, with a
local laundry furnishing towels. A stage and
platform were built by carpenters in the group,
and on Wednesday and Sunday nights open

forums were held. On Friday night the weekly
entertainment program was presented, for the
most part by members of the group.

The Need For Recreation Buildings

(Continued from page 585)

“\Ve shall also build many straight highways
for travel and traffic, and winding roads of scenic
beauty for pleasure driving. Landscaping, plant-
ing, flowers, bridges, pavilions for rest, recrea-
tion and refreshment, public playgrounds, and
golf comses, will, of course, accompany these in
ever increasing numbers.

“Architects, engineers, city planners, landscape
architects, builders, park boards and public of-
ficials will do well to think a little in advance of
the inevitable trend of afi'airs. They should pre-
pare for great building activity, taking account
of our rapidly changing conditions and probable
mode of living, so that whatever is done shall not
be done in the costly haphazard fashion of for-
mer days, but shall be planned with careful study
and comprehensive scheming for the greatest
economic use and the most adequate future
development.”

Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
To Equipment and Supplies

A year-round reference book for
swimming pools and other public
bathing places. A bound volume.

Contains, among other material, the
Rules, Laws and Regulations of the
various States and some cities. The
Regulations were compiled by the
Sanitary Engineering Department of
the State of Illinois.

In this volume every important
phase of the swimming pool and
beach is dealt with by outstanding
engineers and municipal and State
departments—design, operation, con-
struction, sanitation, maintenance,
etc.

Price $2.00

Volume will be off the press later part of January

ADDRESS

NOTABLE SWIMMING POOLS and

GUIDE :0 EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES
114 E. 32nd Street, New York, N. Y.

 

 

New Books on Recreation

Listening to
Music

By Douglas Moore.
W. W. Norton and
Company, Inc., New

York. $3.00.

MR. MOORE in his

Listening to Music
sets out “in pursuit of
the ‘hearing ear.’ ” He
brings attention to the
very stuff of which
music is made—tone
and its agencies,
rhythm, melody, har-
mony, tonality, polyphony—and points out all the fea-
tures, uses and effects of each element. He goes further
and deals with design in music and with the various
forms that have been used for it at different stages of
its history. The book is delightfully readable through-
out. Even when it is most thoroughly engaged in ex-
pounding the technique of harmony or polyphony it
speaks of these things as a keenly intelligent person
would speak of them in a good dinner conversation.
Every little while it invites one to sing or play or to
observe a certain melody in real music. For example,
in a chapter on Musical Tone it says: “Suppose you sit
down quietly and pay attention to the sounds about you,”
and then proceeds to mention such agreeable things as
the songs of birds, the buzzing of insects, the wind in
the trees, and also several sorts of sounds that the city
dweller would hear. “Listen to these sounds carefully
and see if you can pitch your voice to the approximate
tone.” The chapter on Rhythm is excellent and con—
tains many references to excellent music. The chapters
on design in music are also eSpecially valuable.

—AUGUSTU5 D. ZANZIG.

Facts About Juvenile Delinquency

Publication No. 215. Children’s Bureau, U. S. Depart-

ment of Labor. Superintendent of Documents, Wash-
ington, D. C. $.10.

THIS PUBLICATION has been prepared in response to
numerous requests for a non-technical outline of
what the citizen needs to know about the prevention and
treatment of juvenile delinquency. Its purpose is to pre—
sent in easily available form something of the newer
phi1050phy in regard to the whole problem of delin—
quency which has grown out of the studies and findings
of the Delinquency Committee of the White House Con-
ference on Child Health and Protection. It discusses the
nature and extent of juvenile delinquency, preventive
programs, including community influences and leisure
time activities, and the treatment of delinquency. Recre-
ation workers will find it helpful to have this pamphlet
in their libraries.

594

Courtesy W estchester County Recreation Commission

Morale~The Mental Hygiene of

Unemployment

By George K. Pratt, M. D. Published Iby the National
Committee for Mental Hygiene. 450 Seventh Avenue,

New York 'City, $.25. _
HIS BOOKLET has been prepared for the primary pur—

pose of helping social workers, unemployment relief

investigators and others to understand a little better

what goes on in the minds of men and women who lose
their jobs. A number of suggestions are offered for the
treatment of mental health problems arising out of the
depression. The first is that the unemployed man or
woman ‘be given a chance to talk it out. “For a social
worker or relief investigator to cultivate deliberately the
habit of being a good listener may prove half the battle
in maintaining a client’s morale and mental health.”

Work for its own sake is also recommended. “Work
for health’s sake” is a vital need which helps a man
maintain a feeling of worth—whileness, self-respect, and
accomplishment. Almost any work will do as long as it
presents a reasonably definite task. It may be sawing
wood, spading a garden or painting a house. The de—
velopment of recreational facilities and hobbies as a
further means for conserving individual and collective
mental health is strongly advocated in the report which
presents instances of effective work now being done
along these lines by scores of communities alive to the
importance of leisure time activities ° as a morale
measure.

Touring Storyland

By Lucile and Thurman C. Gardner. Banks Upshaw and
Company, Dallas. $1.25.
ASOURCE book for theory and style, as well as for ef-
fective stories, this publication may be used as a
text for students interested in the art of story telling
and as a guide for teachers and workers with children.
It is divided into two sections. The first contains stories
illustrating the interests of each age; the second part
deals with the principles and technique of story telling
from babyhood through the adult period.

 

More Thinqs to Make.

By Charlotte C. Jones, The Pilgrim Press, Bos-
ton. $1.00.

This unusually attractive book contains patterns with
illustrations for making forty-three articles, including
paper baskets, toys, furniture, calendars, posters, trans-
parencies and similar articles. A comprehensive index is
a feature of the book.

   
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
 

,' Education As Guidance.

By John M. Brewer. Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.75.

“To examine the possibilities of a curriculum in terms
of life activities in elementary and secondary schools and
college" has been the objective of the author in preparing
this book which deals with guiding students. He em-
phasizes five specific points: (1) that our guidance cur-
riculum is formulated solely out of what life itself re-
quires; (2) that quality of activity is to be stressed.
not quantity; (3) that the definition and criteria of
guidance involve student initiative; (4) that both for
the individual and the 'groups self-guidance is the final
aim. and (5) that opportunities are advocated and de-
scribed for self-teaching, judicious loaf'tng and being let
alone. Guidance is to be applied only as necessary to
avoid the ignorance and other dangers from which edu-
cation is designed to protect and to afford the progressive
deveplopment which life itself demands.

A chapter on “Guidance for Leisure and Recreation”
stresses the urgent need for the school’s interest in the
use of leisure—for teaching children the right uses of
leisure time and ways of transfering this leisure time
wholesomeness to all other duties and activities.

0

A Handbook of Stunts.

By Martin Rodgers, M. A. The Macmillan Company.
New York. $3.00.

The material presented here as .a supplement to the
present programs of physical education in large city
systems, is the result of an experiment conducted by the
author at the request of the Board of Education of New
York City. The stunts suggested, organized as they are
on the rotating squad plan, will help meet the needs of
the school suffering the handicap of inadequate play
space. Chapter headings include Principles and Organ:-
zation of Physical Education; Individual Stunts; Com-bat
Stunts; Stunt Games; Stunt Races; Mat, Agility and
Tumbling Movements; Apparatus Stunts; Athletics;
Miscellaneous Self-Testing Activities, and Pyramids.

Spectatoritis.

By Jay B. Nash. Sears Publishing Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.50.

The machine age has given leisure to man. Is man
ready for it? The answer depends upon his ability to
make wise choices. He may choose to 'be a watcher, a
hirer of other people to perform for him; or he may be
a doer, creating with his hands, doing imaginative think-
ing. Professor Nash paints a vivid picture of the dangers
which lie in “spectatoritis” and urges activity—physical—
mental—creative—without which there can be no growth.
Our schools. he points out. must offer vital activities that
challenge interests. permit achievement after difficulty and
effort, and thus compel growth.

“Kit” 32.

Program Number. Edited by Lynn and Katherine
Rohrbough. Church Recreation Service, Delaware.
Ohio. $.25.

The latest issue of the Recreation “Kit” called the
Program Number, cantains programs for \Vatch Night.
April Fool, Geometry and Smile parties along with a
number of other suggested programs for social occasions.
New home games and a number of tricks are included.

NEl-V BOOKS ON RECREATION

U!
\0
g"

Children’s Library Yearbook.

American Library Association, Chicago. $2.25.

The fourth Yearbook compiled by the Committee on
Library \Vork with Children of the American Library
Association is a compilation of articles by a number of
libraries in the children’s field and of authors of books
for children. The Yearbook also contains an annotated
bibliography of books and periodical articles about child-
ren’s literature and reading. The material is divided into
two parts: Part I includes general works, the history
and the study and teaching of children's literature. Part
II deals with poetry and the arts of writing and illustrat-
ing for children.

Housing Objectives and Programs.

The President's Conference on Home Building and
Home Ownership. New CommerCe Building, \Vash-
ington, D. C. $1.15.

One of the volumes of greatest interest to recreation
workers coming out of the President's Conference on
Home Building and Home Ownership is this publication
on objectives and programs, which outlines standards and
objectives, tells of technical development. legislation and
administration, presents organization programs, local and
national. and lists research projects. A chapter on Educa-
tion and Service tells of ways in which the findings of the
report may be used to stimulate public interest and secure
application of the facts and suggestions offered. The
provision of playgrounds and play space in housing pro-
jects is discussed. Recreation workers may, however,
question the adequacy of some of these standards.

Other volumes available from the President’s Con-
ference on Home Building and Home Ownership are
Home Design, Construction and Equipment, an exceed-
ingly practical book, and Slums, Large-Scale Housing
and Decentralization, which contains a discussion of the
importance of the provision of play space in connection
with large-scale housing. These two volumes are also
available at $1.15 each. The complete set of eleven vol-
umes may be secured for $10.50, postage prepaid.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Joszrn Lac, President

JOHN H. Fun", First Vice-President
JOHN G. thanr, Second Vice-President
Rona-r Guam, Third Vice-President
Gustavus T. KIIIY, Treasurer

Howaao S. Buocnaa, Secretary

DIRECTORS
Mas. Eowno W. BIDDLI, Csrlisle. Pa.
Wituau Burrsawoarn. Moline. Ill.
Cuaauca M. Cuax. Philadelphia. Pa.
Hanav L. Cossm, Portland, Ore.
Mas. Aarnua G. Conan. Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Taosu Dawson, Locust Valley, L. 1.. N. Y.
Mas. Tnouas A. Benson, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. Fntuv. New York. N. Y.
Hucn Puma, New YOrk, N. Y.
Roazar Guam. Baltimore, Md.
Austin E. Galrrtrns. Seattle. Wash.
WILLIA‘II HAL! Haaxuass, New York. N. Y.
Cnaaus Haven, New York, N. Y.
Mas. Cnaaus V. iItcxox, Michigan City. Iad.
Mas. FIANCIS oaLacv iivoa. Plaintield. N. J.
Gus-raves T. Ktaav, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. bacon. ledianspolis. Ind.
Mas. CIIAILB D. Lanna. Greenwich. Conn.
Roan-r LASIITII, Charlotte. N. C.
Josuu Ln. Boston. Mass.
Eowaao E. Looms, New York. N. Y.
J. H. McCuaor, Springfield, Mass.
0110 T. Haunt. Philadelphia. Pa.
Wan-n A. Mar. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Cut. E. Humans, Augusta. Me.
Mas. Ocean L. Hitu. Washington. D. C.
FIDIIICK S. Ttrswoarn. New York. N. Y.
Mas. Jana W. Waoswoa'rn.%a.. Washington, D. C.
J. C. Waun New York. N. .
Fasontcx  Waaauao, New York. N. Y.
Jonn G. WINANT, Concord. N. H.
Mas. \VILLIAI H. Woootn. 1a.. Plainfieid. N. J.

