A Ray of Light

HE NEW DEAL involves new thinking as to values. Values thought to be as
sure as Gibraltar crumbled. Are there other values which have even 1ncreased?

We are not quite so sure about bonds and stocks. We are more secure than
ever as to the enjoyment 1n read1ng, 1n nature, 1n mus1c, 1n art, 1n drama, 1n crafts,
in power to do things W1th our bod1es——to tramp, to sw1m, to skate.

We want some form of security somewhere. Security in the arts is not a sub-
stitute for security as to food—clothing——shelter. Yet 1t helps to know that 1n a

world where millions who want only work must have relief funds—the human
spirit still can have a measure of triumph.

Men themselves out of work—after training —— are giving leadership in the
arts—in the art of recreation, to yet others who too are out of work, to the end

that all together may keep their spirits triumphant—unbowed even with the pres-
ent weight of woe.

Dark as is the curse of unemployment — yet there is something thrilling in
thousands of children having playgrounds because unemployed men and women
paid with relief funds are freed to give leadership to them. Boys and girls are
swimming in swimming pools that the unemployed have built, young men and
young women are playing tennis on tennis courts that unemployed labor has cre—
ated. Men are playing baseball on fields which have been levelled off because re-
lief funds were available and men preferred to work for their relief.

We were so busy filling our granaries with wheat and corn, stufling our
warehouses with cloth, making steel for buildings. that many had no time to read,

to swim, to play ball, to compose and play music, to do the things that would
build immortal souls.

And now we have had time to build playgrounds, swimming pools, athlet...
fields for our children and for ourselves.

Dark and terrible as unemployment is and ever must be —— yet through this
darkness breaks a little light—with a note of promise unemployed men themselves
are building recreation facilities, giving recreation leadership —— providing means
for more abundant living—and building also a public opinion which begins to
recognize that the human activity of living, of playing, of creating for the joy of

the activity itself — which has been rated as temporary and passing, is after all
permanent, abiding, secure.

Many are feeling with David Cushman Coyle: “We need a society in which

the economic is put in the cellar where it belongs and the living room is left for
life itself.”

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

September, |933

 

258

The Evolution of a Playground

4*? ("t x.
*H‘.‘*

a ' HtHBM-«ri
MQ-tvi 1.5-? 1+ 4“ t

 

The James Barrie Playground, Oak Park, Illinois
(Sec page 294)

Training for Leisure

14' HE WHOLE END and object
Tof education,” said Aris-
totle, “is training for the
right use of leisure.” It is only
recently, however, that the full
practical import of this declaration has made itself
felt. In the first place, the amount of leisure time
has been constantly increasing and seems destined
to even more rapid increase in the near future. In
the second place, urban civilization has disrupted
traditional leisure pursuits and the individual’s
control over his own leisure, thus making neces-
sary community action on the subject.

Aside from the tremendous amount of enforced
leisure which the economic depression has brought
in its wake, it has directed attention to the con-
stantly shortening working week and working
day even during periods of prosperity. Labor
leaders exhibit charts showing the reduction of
the working week from eighty-four hours in 1840
to fifty hours or less in 1930. Since that time the
forty-hour week has, in theory at least, already
been accepted. In addition, more than one—third
of our p0pulation are children and from forty to
fifty per cent of all their waking hours is leisure
time.1 Another fifth of the population engaged
as housewives has been largely released from the
drudgery of long hours by the changing role of
the home as well as by the revolution in the tech-
nique of housekeeping. Not only has the number
of children per family decreased but the mother’s
responsibility for education and rearing has been
largely assumed by the community. Household
conveniences—gas, electricity, water supply, and
sewage disposal-—-—as well as the simplifications in
the preparation of food and the making of cloth-
ing have greatly lessened the labor of millions of
women. Add to this large number of women and
children the “retired” and the “leisure class”
proper, and some idea is se-
cured of the enormous amount
of leisure which exists in a
modern community. In the
face of such facts and with
even more striking prospects

By GEORGE A. LUNDBERG

Department of Sociology
Columbia University

Protessor Lundberg's paper, which we
are reprinting in Recreation through
the courtesy of the Teachers College
Record, was presented at the annual
meeting of the American Sociological
Society at Cincinnati, December I932.

for the future, it is not surpris-
ing that President Nicholas
Murray Butler declares that
“guidance in the right use of
leisure is vastly more important
than what is now known as vocational guidance.”

What will people do with this additional leis-
ure? One student of the problem has stated the
question in this way: “Will they take as the model
for their leisure the sort of life now most favored
by the ‘idle rich’ and get as much of that sort of
thing as their means enable them to procure—dis-
play, luxurious feeding, sex excitement, gambling,
bridge, golf, globe-trotting, and the rest? Or will
they spend it in the Way the idle poor—by whom
I mean the unemployed—are now spending the
leisure forced on them by the industrial crises,
which consists, for the most part, in just stagnat-
ing, physically, mentally, and morally? Or will it
be a mixture of the two-—stagnations relieved by
whatever doses of external excitement people
may have the cash to purchase PM We do not
know which possibility is being chosen nor why,
although the problem has already been with us
for some decades. Yet these are questions which
are at least as challenging as any now occupying
the attention of social scientists.

What people will do with the new leisure is
largely a question of what we train them to do.

_ I assume that it will be granted that the choice

and technique of avocational and leisure pursuits
are not acquired any more spontaneously than are
the choice and technique of vocational pursuits.
I shall take it for granted also that what people
do with their leisure is a matter of social concern.
Otherwise I should have to devote the remainder
of this article to an exhibit of numerous studies
and testimonials on the relation between leisure
pursuits and delinquency, illness, and demoraliza—

 

1 Estimate by Lies, E. T., The Lei-
sure of a People, 1). 56. The Council of
Social Agencies, Indianapolis, 1929. See
also Rosecrance, F. C., “Character
Building, A Community Enterprise,”
Journal of the National Education A:-
socmtion, 21: 51-53, February, 1932.

2Jacks, L. P. “Leisure: A New and
Perplexing Problem," New York Times
Magazine, p. 6, July 5, 1931.

259

260 TRAINING FOR LEISURE

|_' -.'.'-“-'"—-. '— '

tion. Having assumed that
these relations exist, we
may now turn to possible
approaches to the problem
itself.

School Training for
Leisure

Conventional studies of
the subject of school train-
ing for leisure usually pro—
ceed somewhat as follows:
(I) The, curricular and
extra - curricular subjects
which are usually regarded
as avocational are selected
from a number of cur—
ricula; (2) the percentage
of the whole school day
given to these subjects is
completed; (3) the investi—
gator concludes largely on the
basis of his own prejudices as
to the propriety of this state of
affairs.

East Orange, N. I.

Now I do not believe that such a performance
would touch the essence of the problem, which, in
my opinion, lies much deeper. Subject matter or
activities cannot be very rigidly classified as vo—
cational or avocational, work or play. The clas—
sification depends entirely on time, place, circum—
stance, and the person’s mood. Consequently I
do not believe that a mere change in subject mat—
ter of the present curriculum would of itself
make much difference in present habits of leisure.
These habits are an inseparable part of the dom—
inant culture pattern of the day and as such wait
for modification upon certain fundamental changes
in the current philosophy of work as well as of
leisure. Such changes in our philosophy depend
not so much upon the subjects offered in the cur—
riculum as upon the objectives that are held up
as a justification for both vocational and avoca—
tional subjects. In other words, it is not so much
a matter of what is taught as the spirit in which
it is taught.

Let, me give a few simple illustrations. Sup—
pose, for example, that we introduce golf into the
curriculum as a required subject and strongly
impress students with proofs that it is as neces—
sary as arithmetic to success in business. Suppose

the avowed purpose of studying foreign lan—
guages and literature is to be able to astonish the

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation Commissioners,

The greatest satisfactions of life
come from the acquisition of skills
not necessarily of economic value.

boss by casually breaking
into French. Suppose fur—
ther that the major consid—
eration in studying music is
to gain grace with the boss’s
daughter. Suppose that the
teaching of the fine arts, of
the classics, and of the hu-
manities in general keep
well in the foreground
their utility in impressing
the board of directors.
Under these conditions,
would increased attention
to these subjects cause any
noticeable change in present
leisure pursuits? I doubt
it. The leisure activities of
our time are concomitants
of the tension and tempo of
the dominant culture
scheme. Any important change
in our leisure habits will wait
upon corresponding changes in
our habits and attitudes toward work.

Now the dominating note of our teaching on
this subject at the present time, both through our
schools and through the more informal but per—
haps more important community influences, is
that the measure of a man is what he buys rather
than what he is. We succeed in turning out from
our schools products firmly convinced that the
more wealth they can amass the happier they will
be. Above all we imbue them with the firm con—
viction that the only means to both wealth and
happiness is individualistic diligence in business.
Calvin Coolidge was a true spokesman of our age
when he intoned as follows: “To provide for the
economic well—being of our inhabitants, only three
attributes, which are not beyond the reach of the
average person, are necessary—honesty, industry,
thrift.” If anyone doubts the thoroughness with
which this doctrine has been inculcated, let him
consult the most immediate victims of its falla-
ciousness. Let him consult those who stand in
breadlines and sleep under bridges. Does any con—
siderable number of them question the efficacy of
hard work, saving, and minding their own busi-
ness as the solution of their troubles? They do-
not. On the contrary, they are expecting a break
any day now, when they will obtain a profitable
job, invest a few hundred in the stock market,
and presently retire to a castle in Scotland. Why

TRAINING FOR LEISURE 261

not? It has been done by fellows once no better
off than themselves. This has been and is the

dominant theme, the prevailing overtone, the prac-
tical idealism of our educational system as well
as of other community influences. Its growing
incompatibility with the realities of the present
situation is at the bottom of much personal and
social maladjustment at the present time.

I trust it is unnecessary here to enter into any
detailed discussion of the validity of this pattern
on which we are at present organized. It should
be clear that, at present, prosperity for large
classes depends upon their working less rather
than more, unless indeed we include intelligent
cooperative effort as part of our work. It must
be clear, further, that to an increasing degree the
main objects of striving are
no longer to be attained
through the mere accumula-
tion of individual wealth
Health, personal security,
and aesthetic satisfactions
are increasingly dependent
not upon individual wealth
but upon community organi-
zation. The dominant ob-
jectives of present school
training, both vocational and
avocational, therefore, are
false not only as regards their
intrinsic validity but also as
regards the means of their
attainment.

Let us examine a little fur-
ther how these attitudes affect the problem of
leisure. I quote from Recent Economic Changes
by the President’s Committee, “It began to be
recognized not only that leisure is ‘consumable’
but that people can not ‘consume’ leisure without
consuming goods and services, and that leisure
which results from our increasing man—hour pro—
ductivity helps to create new needs and broader
markets.” Here we have very excellently revealed
the current preoccupation of economists with the
productive aspect of their subject. From this
point of view the problem of leisure is a problem
of increasing man’s consumption of material goods
so that business and profits may be bigger and
better. This, apparently, is the highest and final
object of endeavor. Increased sales bring in-
creased employment and higher wages. Purchas-
ing power is thus increased, which in turn makes
possible still bigger business. If, as a result of big

"H. 6. Wells said, It has always been a

race between education and catastrophe,’
and we have found that to be true in
our attempted solution of the leisure
problem; for this same problem is the
most important one we have before us
today, whether it is viewed from the
standpoint of economics, sociology, in-
dustry, ethics or religion. The present
unemployment is but one phase of it, and
when that is solved the greater part of
it will still remain.
help in its solution, especially from the
standpoint of education, is a most wel-
come and valuable contribution at the
present time."—George B. Cutten, Presi-
dent, Colgate University, in Ventures in

Informal A dutt Education.

Anything that will

business, improved methods of production are de-
vised by which a task that used to require four

days now requires only two, the chief significance
of this development, in current theory, is that in
the time saved the laborer will be able to con-
sume some goods and services for which he has
hitherto not had time to develop an appetite.
Herein we have the modern version of the fas-
cinating experience of growing more corn to feed
more hogs to make more money to buy more land
to grow more corn to feed more hogs, and so on.
This exhilarating round, at an ever-increasing
tempo, represents, apparently, the highest aspira-
ation of western civilization.

There is no denying the hypnotic centripetal
power with which the increasingly rapid swirl of
this circle is capable of hold-
ing man. As a method of
bridging the gap between
birth and death, keeping oc—
cupied, it has much to be said
for it. It undoubtedly keeps
many out of mischief. The
people most completely in its
sway are not infrequently
the pillars of society. Among
other things, it prevents phil-
osophic meditation and those
other m o r b i d reflections
which tend to afiiict some
preachers, professors, artists,
and others who won’t work
according to the formula.
Nevertheless, the charmed
circle is unpleasantly suggestive of a squirrel cage
and suitable rather to the brain of a squirrel than
to that of man.

What is the alternative? It is conceivable that
under another system of ideals and education men
might prefer to utilize at least part of the leisure
which the machine has won for them in some
form of self-activity which would not greatly
affect economic production of profits. We might,
for example, hold up what men are rather than
what they buy as a standard of worth. On this
theory the greatest satisfactions of life as well as
the best-balanced personalities come from the ac-
quisition and exercise of skills and activities of
various sorts not necessarily of economic signifi-
cance. The consumption of blue sky, sunshine, and
sylvan solitude, or the amateur dabbling in the
fine arts is of this nature. Merely as a method of
killing time and consuming energies it may be no

262 TRAINING FOR LEISURE

Ei-

"A neighborhood workshop where
facilities for and instruction in the
plastic arts and crafts are provided
is worth more than all the courses

in the history and theory of art in
the country.”

more absorbing than the frantic
game of keeping up with the
Joneses. The justification for
this substitute, therefore, must

that its indulgence contributes more to that nice
balance and integration of personality which is
generally recognized as desirable.

The value of leisure-time activities, play, and
recreation is usually conceded to lie in the nervous
release which they afford from the customary and
coercive activities which the social order imposes
upon us. To the extent, therefore, that the pur-
suits of our leisure time tend to become organized
under conventional patterns dictated by competi—
tive consumption, they lose their unique and
primary value as recreation and so become merely

another department of ‘activity devoted to the
achievement of prestige or status. That a great
deal of leisure-time activities at present, dictated
as they are by the dominant economic motif of the
age, partake of this nature, there can be no doubt.
“If the business man plays golf, it is, as he will
tell you, to keep himself fit for business; if he
takes a holiday he is submitting to boredom for
the same reason.” 3 An increasing number of peo—
ple find themselves coerced by such considerations
into a meaningless round of “recreational,” “lei-
sure” activities, which they heroically endure but
which is devoid of capacity to minister to release
of the tensions and the development of personality
which constitute the true purpose of recreation.
Explosive and orgiastic “parties” are the patho-
logical substitutes for the leisure pursuits which
are the normal release of the tensions resulting
from the job. Orgies have almost become a social
obligation as well as a necessity. As one girl put
it, “Without cocktails the pleasures of life would
be quite insupportable.”“ Maxim Gorky remarked
on a visit to Coney Island: “What an unhappy

 

Courtesy Lo: Angelo: Playground and Remedies Department

people it must be that turns for happiness here.”
\V hat shall we, in fact, say of a civilization which
has so encumbered life that one of every twenty
of us is destined to be actually committed—t-o a
hospital for mental diseases? How shall we ap-
praise a prosperity which insures that one out of
every ten of us will suffer such mental impair-
ment as to make him eligible for psychopathic

institutions?‘5 It is considerations of this kind
which justify us in turning our attention to con—
sumption of the products which might minister
to the enrichment of life. One of the chief of
these products is leisure.

The indictment of current leisure-time activity,
then, rests not upon the mere fact that it tends to
be increasingly commercial and coercive. Nor
does it rest upon the a priori generalizations of
artists and aesthetes regarding “higher” and
“lower” forms of activity. The charge is that
leisure or recreation of this type is neither leisure
nor recreation in any basic biological or psycho-
logical sense. “ Slavish pleasures and mechanical
leisure are contraditions in terms. That the
shorter working day necessarily means more lei-
sure of a desired or desirable kind is a non
sequitur which is almost universal but palpably
false. All it necessarily means is more time for
other pursuits, or for simple boredom. The latter
is receiving increasing attention as a factor in
mental disease. As Edman has said, “Leisure is
an affair of mood and atmosphere rather than

 

3Joad, C. E. M. Diogenes; or, The Future of Leisure, p. 65.
Routledge, George & Sons, London, 1928.

4Jacks, L. P. The Educot‘ion of the Whole Man, p. 67. Har-
per & Brothers, 1931.

50gbum, W. F., and Winston, Ellen, “The Frequency and
Probability of Insanity." Amerr'con Jmcrnol of Sociology, xxxrv:
822-831, March, 1929.

6 Cf. Allport, F. W., “This Coming Era of Leisure,” Horper’s
Magazine, November, 1931, pp. 641-652.

TRAINING FOR LEISURE 263

simply of the clock. It is not a chron010gical oc-
currence but a spiritual state. It is unhurried pleas-
urable living among one’s native enthusiasms.”

Spirit and Objective Vitally Important

It appears, then, that the training for leisure
which the machine age makes necessary is not
simply a matter of teaching school children some
new games or requiring more hours of poetry,
art, and classics. It is a matter of toning down
some of the dominant notes of the current culture
pattern and playing up certain others. Nothing
that has been said above should be interpreted as
depreciating the role of the schools in this pro-
cess. I have merely suggested that the spirit and
objective of what is taught is quite as important
as the categorical subjects under which it is
taught. Furthermore, the school and the cur-
riculum constitute only one of the influences and
agencies which are responsible for the present
culture scheme. With these reservations in mind
I shall conclude with some concrete suggestions
as to possible curricular changes which might
facilitate the enrichment of life by affording bet—
ter opportunities for educating pe0ple to a more
satisfying use of the new leisure.

A desirable leisure pursuit must fulfill four
main requirements: first, it must have the capacity
for being relatively permanently interesting; sec-
ond, it must be as different as possible from the
activities which our station in life forces upon us;
third, it should as far as possible have both its
origin and its fulfillment in the individual himself
rather than in invidious coercions of the social or
the economic order; and fourth, it should be at
least compatible with, if not conducive to, physical
and mental health and person-
ality development.

Under the first criterion,
namely, that of permanent in—
terest, it might seem that one
subject in the curriculum is as valuable as another
in training for leisure. I have already suggested
that the whole problem is not so much a question
of subject matter as of the spirit in which teach-
ing and learning take place. I am aware, for ex-

ample, of the permanent fascination which science
and mathematics are capable of exerting over
many minds. Instead of attempting to ascribe
particular value to a particular subject per se,
therefore, as desirable for leisure we must seek
for a certain balance in the curriculum. For the
essence of a leisure pursuit is that it should afford

Nature provides inexhaustible re-
sources for a satisfying use of
leisure with minimum equipment.

relaxation and relief from the socially obligatory
activities of our life. Hence the second criterion
that a leisure pursuit should be as different as
possible from the activities which from choice or
compulsion absorb most of our time. I have in
mind the positiOn of Darwin when he said: “It is
an accursed evil to a man to become so absorbed
in any subject as I am in mine. . . . If I had my
life to live over again, I would have made a rule
to read some poetry or listen to some music at
least once a week.” 7

From this point of view, I believe that the chief
modification needed in the present curriculum for
most people'in order to afford more adequate
training for leisure is greater emphasis on the
arts, the crafts, and the enjoyment of nature. It
seems to me that these fields not only possess to
an unusual degree the capacity for being perma-
nently interesting, but by the very uniqueness of
the media which they involve as compared with
those with which present civilization is primarily
concerned, they are especially adapted to afford
that release and relaxation which should be the
essence of leisure pursuits. Without going into
details as to the present position of these subjects
in the curriculum, one may properly ask, for ex-
ample, by what standards it is considered essen-
tial for high school or college people to have spent
some years on foreign languages, literature, and
philosophy, while no familiarity whatever with
the works of Beethoven or Brahms is required.
Yet the latter remain exciting even after we have
heard them a hundred times and over an indefinite
span of years. How many books, poems, or
philosophical theories do we re read with satisfac-
tion as often as every month or even every year?

Space forbids further elabo—
ration and application of this

 

7Life and Letters of Charles Darwin,
Vol. I, pp. 81, 495. D. Appleton and
Company, 1911.

 

264 TRAINING FOR LEISURE

reasoning to other arts, crafts, and the contempla-
tion of nature. I have merely given an illustration
of the line of reasoning upon which a revision of
the curriculum might be undertaken to afford
more adequate training for leisure. These sub-
jects also fulfill to an unusual degree the other
two criteria of desirable leisure pursuits, in that
they can be carried on by the individual relatively
independently of the more prevalent social coer-
cions and in that they are highly compatible with
man’s physical and social well—being.

In this connection we must again emphasize
that mere changes in the curriculum in this direc-
tion will not accomplish much unless a corres-
ponding change takes place in the current culture
pattern as a whole. The subjects mentioned above
fail to play an important role in the lives and the
leisure of most people for two main reasons'
(I) Under the current dominant culture pattern
which I have described these subjects have been
regarded with suspicion if not with contempt.
They have been considered proper subjects for
women and “sissies” but not for he-men who ex-
pect to amount to something in the world. (2)
They have been and are now being taught in a
way that tends to confirm the above popular esti-
mate. For credit, at least, the curriculum tends
to recognize only courses about art which, if they
have any effect at all, qualify those who take
them only to talk glibly about subjects concern-
ing which they have no real understanding or
feeling whatever. I refer to the so-called “appre-
ciation” courses. A student who can merely per-
form creatively can get no credit for it in schools,
although even a very elementary ability to per.
form, for example, on some instrument, fre-
quently involves more hours of application than
an entire college course. A neighborhood work-
shop where facilities for and instruction in the
plastic arts and crafts are provided is worth more
than all the courses in the history and theory of
art in the country. And participation in a chorus,
orchestra, or chamber music group is worth more
than all the music “appreciation” courses in the
world. Our pedagogues need to recognize that it
is more important that pupils should leave school
with a great curiosity about the world and a de-
sire to inquire into it than that they should be able
to chatter about textbook details. Likewise, it is
more important that they should have become in—
terested in the acquisition of some skill in some
art than that they should know the history and
theory of that art. I do not say that these mat-
ters are fundamentally incompatible. I do say

that means are frequently so mishandled as to
defeat the main end. Let us put the emphasis on

the acquisition of skill in some of these fields and
the appreciation will take care of itself.

In addition to the development of skill in the
arts and the crafts, I believe that the schools can
do more than they are now doing in the develop-
ment of a fondness for outdoor life and the en-
joyment of nature. Closely related is general par-
ticipation in outdoor sports on a really amateur
basis. The possibilities of outdoor life and sports
as among the most obvious and satisfying uses of
leisure are so generally recognized as to make
elaboration here unnecessary. I am aware of the
problems they represent in the larger urban cen-
ters. These problems are not beyond solution if
given a sufiicient demand for more adequate fa-
cilities. We may profitably look to Germany,
England, and the Scandinavian countries for ex-
amples of what may be done in this field.

In conclusion, it should be noted that as we
grow conscious of the problem of leisure, there is
danger that through the techniques of business
efiiciency recreation may become more of a grind
than work ever was. I refer to the passion for
organizing, directing, and supervising everything.
Last summer the superintendent of a city recrea-
tion commission proudly showed me his system of
playground supervision. Every minute was
scheduled under a leader in charge of each play-
ground. A staff of supervisors dashed around in
cars visiting each playground many times during
the day to see that the leader was operating ac-
cording to schedule and that everybody was work-
ing hard at playing. There was a tension pervad-
ing the scene comparable to that of a modern ef-
ficiency factory. Facilities and leadership have
their place and they require organization and su-
pervision. But again we need t0'be on our guard
lest, following again the ideals of our dominant
culture pattern, we become so preoccupied with
the means that we forget the end.

“There is no better way of safeguarding a de-
mocracy than by improving the quality of its fu-
ture citizens. Bring our children up in an at-
mosphere in which they can exercise their native
abilities and we shall develop a new race, strong,
free and fit for self-government. The primary
function of a recreation program is to create
such an atmosphere, and the effectiveness of the
program can best be judged by the response of
our people to it.”—Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Chair-
man, Westchester County Recreation Committee.

Find Your Leader and Train l-liml

An interesting and important
sport for our adult leaders.

'1‘ THE OUTSET we must all understand clearly
A what we mean by the term “leader.” Pages
are written about leaders but they are
rarely defined. One author distinguishes between
leaders and what he calls “Headmen,” those who
are in positions of leadership but never do any-
thing about it. Other writers use the term
“leader” only when they refer to individuals
elected to responsible positions. We have all heard
the expression, “Wherever there is play, there is
a leader.”

After a study of many definitions, the follow-
ing has been devised as the basis for this article:
A leader is an individual who causes other peo-
ple to act and think the way he would like them
to act and think. (Note carefully the words
printed in bold face type.)

Leaders Do Not Drive. According to our in-
terpretation of this definition the director who
holds executive power over his subordinates and
who drives them in the direction he would like
them to go is not necessarily a leader. Those
under him may act as he wishes them for fear of
losing their jobs if they did otherwise; but the
point involved in respect to the definition is this—
Did the director prove himself a leader by get-
ting “other pe0ple to act and think” his way?
Then, too, there are many boy and girl leaders
who are given authority by
an adult who may not be

This material has been prepared at the request

By DE ALTON E. PARTRIDGE

and

CHARLES F. SMITH

less. Manyvadult supervisors fail to recognize
this and overlook the fact that a so-called prob—
lem boy may be a leader insofar as his relation-
ship with his own group is concerned; he in-
fluences others to act and think the way he wishes
them to act and think. So it is not the way an
individual influences others but the fact that he is
able to do so that marks him as a leader.

Train Children to Choose Leaders. Isn’t it
rather startling to consider how little has been
done in our educational institutions—the play-
ground included—either to train competent lead-
ers or to teach boys and girls how to choose them
wisely——-and this, in spite of the fact that our
basic hope in democratic government depends
upon our ability to choose leaders wisely? The
mediocrity of ability which finds its way into
many responsible civic positions should be mute
evidence that some very definite educational pro—
cess is essential to the proper continuance of our
national democracy. For children, play and rec—
reation provide great opportunities for develop—
ing leadership ability, along with ability to choose
leaders wisely and to follow them to the degree
that they merit followship. Recent studies have
shown that no matter how small the group there
is bound to be one individual who will partially
dominate. It is quite impossible to find two indi—

viduals in the same group so
much alike that one of them

leaders, but they sometimes
get results by driving the
other children under them.

Right and Wrong Lead-
ers. Read the definition of
leadership again and you will
see that according to it those
individuals who lead in the
wrong direction, according
to standards of social be-
havior, are leaders neverthe-

ot the editor of Recreation in response to
the article "Junior Leadership on the Play-
ground" which appeared in the June issue. The
ioint authors are well-known in the field of
recreation. Mr. Partridge has contributed a
part of the material which will appear in his
research study of Leadership and Leadership
Training which he is conducting at Teachers
College. Columbia University. Mr. Smith is In-
structor of Recreational Leadership at the
same university. He has contributed frequently
to Recreation, and is best known in the field
of play and recreation as author of a recent
popular book. Games and Game Leadership.

would not assume the initia-
tive. Indeed, studies have
identified this characteristic
of leadership at an age as
young as three months.

Human beings are not
divided into two distinct
groups with reSpect to lead-
reship ability——-namely, lead-
ers and non-leaders; on the
contrary there is a continual

,4

265

266 FIND YOUR LEADER AND TRAIN HIM!

distribution of ability from
those who are seldom lead-
ers in any situation, Up to
those who are leaders in
.practically all situations. It
is difficult even to imagine a
collection of children that
does not contain at least one
dominant individual. As play
and ,recreation leaders we
should all be constantly aware
of our responsibility in giv-
ing embryo leaders an opportunity to develop and
expand their capacities, even at the temporary ex-
pense of the activity itself if necessary.

A Philosophy of Play Leadership. At this
point let us interrupt the thought to outline
briefly a philosophy of play activities that is fun-
damental to the further consideration of the sub-
ject of leadership in this article. It is believed
every supervisor would agree that it is the major
duty of play leaders to teach children to perform
better those desirable recreational activities which
they are likely to perform anyway. That is to
say, the director should give adequate considera-
tion not only to the activities that are performed
on playgrounds or play fields when he is present,
but he should also ask himself, “What will the
players do when I am not there?” No doubt most
readers will agree to a second thesis, which main-
tains that another duty of the play leader is to
reveal higher types of activities and—-—-more im-
portant———to make these both desired and to an
extent possible. If you believe in these theses you
must direct recreational activities so that the par-
ticipants are enabled to perform better and to
have more fun out of the activities you provide
than they were going to have anyway without
your leadership. Furthermore, you must take
youngsters from the point at which they are and
reveal to them higher types of activities, prefer-
ably those that lead on and out of the playground.

Natural Groups and Natural Leaders. Now
let us get back to the subject of leadership to
point out that if you agree with the above phi-
losophy, you will also agree that the most im-
portant reason for using natural groups and lead-
ership from within them is to insure a carry-over
into the spontaneous group activities which oper-
ates during the leisure time of the children with
whom you deal when they are not'under your im—
mediate supervision. It is only through influence

The subiect of Leaders and Leadership has
Philosophers have phi-
losophized about it; so-called leaders continue
to try to lead but comparatively little scientific
work has been~done to help us understand
what leadership ability really is and how it
operates. This article summarizes the most sig-
nificant studies which have been made during
the past decade and evolves them into a work-
able philos0phy applicable to play and recrea-
tional leadership. It is well worth while for
those of us who deal directly with young people
to consider the scientific work done in this field.

always been popular.

of this kind that you can
hope to produce permanent
and constructive results in
the lives of the individuals
with whom you deal. It is
quite important, for this rea-
son, if for no other, that you
observe the presence of a
natural group and deal with
it through its natural leader.
How unfortunate it is that
adults who are supposed to
be leaders are frequently instrumental in destroy—
ing the very threads of these natural groupings
of children so that there cannot possibly be a
carry—over from the playground to spontaneous
outside activities! To be sure, you may get im-
mediate results because of the power vested in
you, but your prestige immediately wastes away
when the group resumes its own activities. It is
trite to comment on how much more effective it
is for the prestige of the leader to carry over to
outside life situations. “Fine theory,” say some
adults, “but you forget that many of the natural
leaders do not always want to lead in the right
direction, and many of them are mischief makers
of great ability.”

No one can dispute that, but that is exactly the
problem that confronts the supervisor. This is
not a problem peculiar to playground supervis—
ors ; it is one of society’s greatest problems. The
outstanding misunderstanding of adults regard-
ing leadership usually comes when the boy or
girl leader is not interested in directing the activ-
ity in the way in which the adult would like him
to. Admittedly, it demands skill for the leader to
get certain people to act and think the way he
would like them to act and think, but remember,
our definition of a leader requires that he be able
to do this.

A Lesson From the Indians. The Plains In-
dians devised a very clever scheme for trapping
buffaloes. After building a huge fan-shaped cor-
ral with a very large entrance and a very small
exit leading over a big cliff, there was still the
problem of getting the buffalo to enter the trap.
The Indians were smart enough to do this by
working through the leader of the herd. They
realized that the winning over of his influence
was worth more than any other method they
could put forth. For days they would observe the
herd until finally they spotted the leader. Then

FIND YOUR LEADER AND TRAIN HIM! 267

it was the job of a trained member of the tribe to
arouse the curiosity of this leader. This he did
by approaching him very carefully and attracting
his attention by queer manoeuvers and slight
noises. Sooner or later the herd leader moved
cautiously in the direction of the Indian trapper
who backed away toward the trap with the herd
leader, and the herd following him. Then the
trapper made his exit while the remainder of the
tribe of Indians drove the herd and caused a
stampede which forced the buffaloes over the
cliff to their destruction or capture.

Developing Boy and Girl Leaders. Not the
least important reason for using and developing
potential boy and girl leaders from within the
group is the economy of time and effort in the
long run. No one will deny that at the outset it
is much easier for the adult who does not possess
executive ability to assume practically all respon-
sibility himself, in order to get the job done in
the way he wishes it done. Many of us can think
back to our own childhood days and remember
someone saying in effect, “Oh, you run along, I
can do it better myself.” Do you remember the
way you felt on such occasions? The individual
who made that comment was correct, because his
objective was only to get the job done rather than
to enrich the experiences of children. The final
measurements of the ability of junior leaders
should not be in terms of
the appearance of their per-
sonal leadership to experi-
enced adults, but rather in
terms of how effective it is
in bringing about rich ex—
periences. No one blames
the novice adult leader of
play who is constantly
tempted to interfere and to
run the show himself. Evi-
dently this novice does not
have in mind goals and ob-
jectives of recreational edu-
cation, and he only sees
what is before his eyes,
whereas the experienced
leader sees not only what is
happening but what may
happen after the children
leave the playground.

Raising Standards of
Free Play. Everyone knows
that the job of the play-

ground, for example, is to do more than provide
worthy use of leisure time, and to influence the
character of children only when they are on the
scene of action. There should be ample provision
made for discovering the natural groups which
come to the playground, and an attempt should be
made to raise the level of their activities before
sending them back into the streets and fields
under their own leadership. We can multiply the
chances for this happening by utilizing the real
leadership that exists in each group. A trained
supervisor would never think of ignoring the re—
cognized leader of a group of adults when deal-
ing with them in recreational affairs. On the
other hand, this same leader too often does ex-
actly this thing when dealing with children.

Finding the Leaders. This raises a very
practical problem—~namely, what are some ef-
fective ways to discover these group leaders? To
answer this question partially, let us consider the
findings of recent researches relative to the char-
acteristics of apparent child leaders. Practically
every scientific investigation which has been re-
ported concludes that those who come into posi—
tions of leadership are superior to the average of
their group in intelligence. Not all studies agree
to the amount of superiority, but there is a general
agreement as to the validity of the generalization
that other things being equal, the leader of the

 

Courtesy Hotel Gramercy Park, New York City

268 FIND YOUR LEADER AND TRAIN HLM!

 

group will be among the most intelligent of the
group. So it may be concluded that while not all
intelligent children are leaders, the natural lead-
ers are usually among the most intelligent.

Research indicates that leadership tends to be
specific; that is, a leader in one activity, say base-
ball, may not be a leader in other activities, par-
ticularly if they are of a different nature, such as
dramatics. \Vhere a leader is needed for any
specific activity he should have considerable nat-
ural ability in that activity. Over against this,
however, there is a definite tendency for an indi-
vidual who is a leader in one activity to be con-
sidered by the group as a leader in others. Ap-
parently there are two reasons for this: (1) Su-
perior characteristics tend to be associated in an
individual; (2) There is a general tendency in
human beings to place a “halo” around certain
individuals who stand out in one activity and im-
mediately assume that they are superior in others.

Regarding the first point, studies show that
with comparatively few exceptions, these indi-
viduals of superior intelligence are taller, heavier,
stronger, quicker, and ——most important ——more
attractive. Regarding the second point, it is per-
fectly normal for thOse who are not natural lead-
ers to set others who have that ability upon a
pedestal since they are superior in height, poise,
intelligence, and usually in prowess. This ten-
dency makes it difficult for the supervisor to dis-
tinguish the popular “prima donna” from the real
leader of the group. The outstanding athlete in

A group of young leaders
receiving their instruction.

college is frequently chosen by
the student body as president
of his class, although his abil-
ity in fulfilling this position
adequately is almost nil. The
point of the presentation of
the foregoing findings is to in-
dicate the tendency of indi-
viduals to choose leaders un-
wisely. Study indicates that
there is much to be done in the
important matter of teaching
children to choose their lead-
ers with a reasonable degree
of intelligence.

Teach Children to Choose Their Leaders.
For an adult to assume the responsibility of
choosing the leader is like a situation difiicult to
imagine in which a music teacher would agree to
practice for his pupils. Experiment has shown
that adolescent boys and girls are perfectly capa-
ble of choosing intelligent leaders. if trained to do
so, and if given an opportunity to try after thev
have had an opportunity to become acquainted
with each other. The novice may ask, “What
shall I do when they select the wrong leader?”
One thing is to make certain that the choice of
the wrong leader is realized by the choosers. Ar-
rangements can be tactfully made for consecutive
elections until the right individual is chosen. If
at the time of the election, it is understood that
the leader is chosen subject to a trial period, the
others will be alert to spot the real leader, and it
will not take them long to do so. Experiments
have proven this beyond a reasonable doubt. It
is true that there are some individuals who act
well the part of a leader without having real abil-
ity to back it up. However, sooner or later the way °
a leader talks and acts will distinguish him from
his associates.

Avoid Adult Standards of Judging. One
reason for the discouragement of inexperienced
adults is their tendency to judge childhood be-
havior and childhood ability on an adult scale.
Certainly we should expect and hope for the best,
but when junior leaders fail to use adequate

(Continued on page 298)

Avocational Education

The forms that avocational interests may take are as
broad as human interests. The more they overlap, the
richer will be the individual’s powers of expression.

ORALE——tl‘lat inner urge to do, to believe, to

M achieve, and to desire—sustains people dur-

ing hours of trial. During the war much

was done to build morale both among the soldiers

and civilians, in order that the nation might come

through triumphantly. Morale building is just as
important during the present economic crisis.

To satisfy the hunger of the body is a first
concern. But to keep men and women from de-
feat of the spirit and personality, we must keep
alive the hunger of the mind to reach out and
learn ; the hunger of the hands for skills, and of
the social instincts to meet with other people.
These things are the roots of morale and of pride.
They save the human spirit from apathy, from
the death in life that can come even to the well-
fed.

The efforts of communities in providing recre—
ational and avocational occupations are serving
not only to maintain morale now among unem—
ployed and depressed people. Such efforts are
preparing for the enrichment of life tomorrow.
For many signs of today point toward increased
need for avocational pursuits in the reconstructed
future.

The Work Day Shortens
First, is the indication

r .

ing technical progress will enable men and women
to make a living in only a fraction of their wak-
ing hours. ,A wide margin of free time will be
left to them to fill as they please. So that people
will not be helpless in the face of these idle hours,
or will not use them destructively, an avocation
will be as necessary as a job.

A further reason for promoting avocational
education comes through the changing character
of work itself. Work has been mechanized and
intricately subdivided. Yet the nature of man
has not changed as a complex civilization has en-
compassed him. He is a skill-hungry animal and
must express himself in activity. In order to get
fulfillment and satisfaction, he must do more than
tend a machine, pull a lever, or push a button.

Increasingly adults must find outlets for their
abilities, talents, hobbies and interests outside of
their work. The measure of a man tomorrow
promises to be not only how successful he is in
his vocation, but how much he enjoys his avoca-
tion. That education for leisure is now vital to
our civilization is recognized as Social Trends,
the research findings of a committee of social
scientists appointed by ex-President Hoover.

Dr. L. P. Jacks of Oxford University is among
the educators who a r e
pointing out that modern

that hours of work will be
greatly curtailed for all
workers. Already hours
have been cut in many in-
dustries, and the full holi-
day on Saturday has come
into effect widely as a means
of spreading work. Whe-
ther or not we believe in
such schemes for engineer-
ing the future as Technoc-
racy, it is clear to leaders in
different fields that increas-

This report on Avocations For Adults was
prepared For the National Commission on
the Enrichment of Adult Lite, National Ed-
ucation Association by a committee consist-
ing of the following members: Otto T.
Mallery, President of the Philadelphia Play-
grounds Association, Chairman; Grace Ab-
bott, Chief of the Children's Bureau; W. T.
Bogan, Superintendent of Schools, Chicago;
John H- Finley, Associate Editor New York
Times; Katherine Kohler, Board of Educa-
tion, Minneapolis; James E. Russell, torm-
erly Dean, Teachers College, Columbia
University, and James E. Rogers, National

Recreation Association, Secretary of the
Committee.

leisure must set free the
creative powers of men and
women, thwarted in mod-
ern industry. He states,
“N 0 amount of ready-made
pleasures, no intensity of
external excitement will
ever compensate a human
being for the starvation of
his essential nature when
skill is denied him. The
driving power to be relied
upon in bringing out crea-

269

270 AIJ’OCA TIONAL EDUCATION

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

tive ability is the love of
beauty, innate in every-
body, but suppressed,
smothered, thwarted in
most of us——a deep, unsatisfied hunger, rendering
our lives miserable though we don’t know what
is the matter.”

In ' this high—speed age, avocations provide
needed relief from tension. They are enemies of
the American diseases current among people in
all classs of society—physical, mental, and nerv—
ous breakdowns.

The Contribution of Recreation

Avocations are serving many adults today as
the most satisfying form of recreation. Recrea-
tion is concerned not only with fun, amusement
and pleasure, but with affairs of deeper meaning.
As a child gains his life through play, so an adult
re-creates his life and liberates his spirit through
recreation. Sports and games programs, music,
art, drama, handcraft, nature study and social
activities are among the varied fields of recrea—
tion which lend themselves to hobbies and
avocations.

And thus we find that agencies which exist to
promote recreation are an invaluable community
resource in avocational education. Public recre-
ation departments in their programs both for chil-
dren and adults are fostering tastes, hobbies, and
skills that will provide life-long avocational in-
terests. The Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Girl and

Boy Scouts, settlements and museums, are among

Amateur music has felt no slump in the depres-
sion. People have turned to it increasingly.

other agencies that pre-
pare for future avocations.

Training For Leisure

Habits for the use of
leisure are most effectively
f o rm e d in childhood.
Many of the men and
women who are now at a
loss for ways to occupy
their spare time received
the formal education of
yesterday’s school and had
few opportunities in their
spare time as children to
plant enthusiasms that
could grow with the years.
Now, more and more
schools and colleges are
recognizing the challenge

to train boys and girls

for the wise use of leis—

ure, as well as for mak—

ing a living. Leadership
for play outside the school supplements this cur-
ricular training.

A choice of leisure time activities offered to
boys and girls gives them a chance to decide
which they want to pursue as adults. In the
plentiful spare time that is promised to them as
workers of the future, they will have time to fol-
low several avocations.

The Schools’ Contribution

Beside their contribution in training children
for the wise use of leisure, schools are taking an
important part in the community scheme for de—
veloping avocations among adults. The “lighted
schoolhouse” in many cities is offering a wide
choice of public evening classes, clubs and recre-
ational groups, reaching at least a million men and
women. Informal and purely voluntary in spirit,
these activities are found in all sections of the
country, though by no means in every school
system. The important community resource of
the school plant is far too little used outside reg-
ular school hours.

The depression has forced the curtailment of
evening school staffs in some cities. In others.
however, the challenge of unemployment has
greatly enlarged the activities, volunteers sup-
porting the work of the regular teaching staff.
Although many students enter evening schools

AI"OCATIONAL EDUCATION ° 271

to study along vocational lines, or to get schooling

they missed in their childhood, avocational inter:
ests are increasing. Dramatics, choruses, craft
work, gymnasium classes, swimming, athletics,
and painting are popular. A number of schools
stress the importance of community singing,
dancing, and social recreation as a means of de—
veloping friendships and clearing the atmosphere
of formalism. '

The evening school system in Dallas, Texas,
publishes a newspaper, which has done much to
stimulate attendance. Among the students in this
system is a grandfather who is studying journal-
ism. He married early and reared a family of
nine children who now have children of their
own. All his life he has wanted to write, but this
is his first chance to learn about the art.

Denver’s famous “Opportunity School” offers
any kind of educational service for any individ-
ual whenever he comes and asks for it. The very
flexible scheme permits students to enter at any
time during- the year and to spend as much time
as they wish at school work. In 1931 the more
than 9,000 students ranged in ages from 13 to 79,
and 1,000 people had to be denied admission be-
cause of lack of space and facilities.

Through the notable recreation plan of schools
in Newark, New Jersey, the individual is given
under one direction, from his
early childhood through adult-
hood, the opportunity to ex—
ercise the physical, rhythmic,
manual, dramatic and social
skills he has learned in the
curricular activities of the
classroom and gymnasium
To carry over into adult life
the interests and skills for
leisure formed in childhood
and to give them fresh infor-
mation and inspiration on
which to feed as the years go
by, will be a growing obliga-
tion of the school of the
future.

A shoemaker of Boston finds
his chief ioy in beautiful carving.
Avocations involving skills with
the hands give many individuals
a great degree of satisfaction.

Avocations and Unemployment

The “bitter leisure” of unemployment is being
filled with constructive activity through the ef-
forts of schools, public recreation departments
and other community agencies. Men and women
either t0tally or partially unemployed are finding
a chance to acquire skills and hobbies that are 
ing them new courage and a fresh outlook on life.
While they are keeping occupied in the school
workshop, community recreation center or settle-
ment house, many of them are discovering for the
first time their own powers, tastes and capacities.
Having held routine jobs and used their leisure
for futile amusements, they have never known
before the satisfaction of creative achievement.

Among young people who have left school re-
cently but cannot flnd work, the cultivation of
avocations is especially needed. These boys and
girls have never known the stabilizing influence
of a job. Restless, seeking adventure, feeling that
there is no place for them in community life.
thousands of such youngsters have taken to the
road. To stem an increasing tide of vagabondage,
with its grave dangers to health and character,
communities must mobilize their res0urces for
avocational and recreational activities. Arts,
crafts and sports, under good leadership can pro-
vide for young people substitute adventures, a

 

272 ° AVOCATIONAL EDUCATION

chance for achievement and a feeling that their
community appreciates their abilities and wants
them. When the call to work comes, they will be
started in the avocations so necessary to a bal-
anced life.

Sir Ronald Lindsay, British Ambassador, in
explaining the recent march of the unemployed
on London, said it was largely due to the fact
that they had been sitting about so long that they
wanted to “kick up their heels.” Even though
men are provided with food and shelter, when
numbers of them are congregated in idleness
they grow restless and even rebellious. Activity
is one of' the fundamental needs of human nature.

The experience of American cities with shel-
ters for unemployed men soon proved that pro-
grams of activity are essential to keeping men
orderly and contented while
they are waiting for a job.
Hence various amusements.
recreations and avocations
have been provided for the
men in many such shelters.
The work done in Phila-
delphia and Chicago is
especially noteworthy. Mu-
sical and dramatic perform-
ances have revealed consid-
erable talent among the
men. Reading and quiet
games such as chess, dom-
inoes and cards are always
available at the centers. The younger men enjoy
active sports provided through basketball and
volley ball leagues. Beginning with the simple
handcraft of whittling with a knife, a whole pro-
gram of crafts has been developed in the Chi-
cago shelters, through cooperation with the V0-
cational Extension Department of the Board of
Education. This program is interesting men in
new vocations as well as avocations.

“Why walk the streets when you can play.
study and produce?” the Department of Public
Recreation in Reading, Pennsylvania, asks unem-
ployed. men. The man without a job in this city
can go to any of four recreation centers for ac—
tivities which bring greater dividends of knowl-
edge and health out of enforced leisure.

azine of Art.

Hobbies

Hobbies are safety valves. They give a sense
of power and achievement. In this highly stan-
dardized, artificial civilization, people must turn

"While art furnishes the patterns of human
conduct and the aids to their performance,
it also serves to provide the
through which man turns his back on the
world of duties and necessities, and finds
sheer delight in alwholly imaginary life por-
trayed for him by the artist. . .
our leisure time grows, it is probable that
artistic activities, so long confined to the
relatively few, will become a resource of
all but the dullest, as we find in them new
avenues to expression, new resources of
reassurance, and new escapes from perplex-

ity."—L. K. Frank, in the American Mag-

to them more and more for self-expression and
for compensation. Yet thousands of men and
women who need hobbies have never acquired
them because of the lack of training and example,
and also because of the desire for conformity
that dominates our social life. The authors of
“Middletown,” study of a typical American small
city, state that a man who followed a hobby there
was considered somewhat of a “nut.”

Studies of the hobbies of people in a variety of
different occupations show a large category of in—
terests outside of work. Physicians love to paint
and sculpture and do it well, as shown in their
recent art exhibit in New York City. Artists en-
joy working at machinery. Many teachers find
recreation in handcraft. An important industrial-
ist can be found more often at his work-bench
than at his office desk. For
a certain locomotive engi-
neer, the height of creative
satisfaction is singing in the
community chorus.

.Among the “ninety-seven
varieties of hobbies” listed
as 21 results of a question-.-
naire sent to one hundred
men and women in many
different professions, were
bookbinding, studying lan-
guages, interior decorating,
fencing, chess, mask mak-
ing, painting furniture, gar-
dening, collecting (from sea shells to kites),
cooking and “getting odd groups of people to-
gether to see what happens.” Of all hobbies.
travel and outdoor sports led.

escapes'

Indeed, as

Fields For Avocations

Avocations may be based upon skills with the
hands—as pottery making, wood carving, sewing;
skills of the body, as swimming, tennis, dancing,
and mental skills, as creative writing, working
at puzzles, composing music. Many avocations
partake of more than one skill———-for instance,
sculpture, which involves both skill with the hands
and creative imagination. A person who adopts
the drama as an avocation and joins a little thea-
ter group may have for his spare time such varied
interests as play writing, painting scenery, study-
ing color and line as applied to costume design,
and directing publicity, as well as expressing him-
self as an actor through the arts of voice and

pantomime.
(Continued on page 299)

Getting the Values
Out of the
School Social

Opportunities the school party of-
iers for development and training.

By G. TURNER HICKS, PhD.

Head, Education Department
Murray, Kentucky, State Teachers College

CHOOL PARTIES should furnish the oppor-
S tunity to develop initiative and leadership,

and to form habits of loyalty and cooper-
ation. Some boys and girls who never develop
leadership traits in athletics, student councils
or debates, can exercise these traits in the social
evening. Successful school socials demand
leaders for the different games and stunts, and
where large numbers are used on the various
committees the opportunity is offered to form
habits of loyalty and cooperation.

They should provide opportunities for train-
ing in all forms of social convention and cour-
tesies, such as how to act as hosts and hostesses,
the technique of introductions, the formalities
of polite society. The social training that many
students receive in school is the only training they
have along this line. Pupils need to know many
important things about conventional social cus-
toms and to have a respect for them. In them-
selves these customs may mean little, but observ-
ance of them marks one as experienced and
thoughtful, whereas neglect of them is evidence
of crudeness or carelessness. School parties, far
from being decried, should be welcomed and en-
couraged as offering a type of training not inher-
ent in other school situations.

They should satisfy the instinctive impulses and
cravings of adolescent nature, such as desire for
social intercourse, rivalry in stunts, play, love of

 

+.

Parties in celebration of holidays and oc-
casions such as Hallowe'en play their part.

social approval, and self—assertiveness. The de-
sire for social intercourse, or gregariousness, is
one of the primary characteristics of adolescents.
It is the normal desire of boys and girls to want
to have regular and pleasant associations with
other boys and girls. They will plan their parties
and clandestine meetings at times when they will
greatly interfere with school work if this impulse
is not properly met in other ways.

They should provide social enjoyment for those
whose home environment would make such

273

274 GEETING THE VALUES OUT OF THE SCHOOL SOCIAL

activities impossible. In many homes the financial
status is so low and the environment conditions so
poor that young people are not permitted to hold
their social gatherings. Too often they are driven
to seek their entertainment in commercial amuse-
ments. Hence the maladjustments and social
evils, and the school’s responsibility.

They should develop a better feeling of com-
panionship between teachers, pupils and parents.
By these social evenings teachers leading them
may become acquainted with pupils under a dif-
ferent social atmosphere than that which prevails
in the classroom, and they will learn many of
their students’ characteristics and eccentricities.
They may find new angles of approach to their
pupils and discover in them traits that can be
used in dealing with.classroom situations.

They should give moral training through social
contact and develop the spirit of altruism through
planning for the enjoyment of others. Morality
is the practice of right conduct in relation to one’s
fellow man. If we can set up situations in which

our young people can be led day after day'ito";
practise those highly desirable qualities of 3.fai-i‘il‘:
play, give and take, square dealing, thought “£611,

the other fellow, unselfishness, excellencef'giifi
achievement and beauty of action, we'shall'ufind
these boys and girls developing those habits which
go to make the finest type of ethical character.
One of the highest virtues is that of altruism, and
nowhere do we have greater opportunity for its
development than through planning for the en-
joyment of others.

They should brighten school life and increase
its holding power. In the writer’s own experience
as a high school principal he found that boys and
girls who had to stop school to go to work de—
sired to continue as part time pupils to enjoy the
social activities.

They should train in habits of worthy use of
leisure. It is just as essential to a stable social
order that an individual should know how to
spend his recreation hours as
it is that he should know how
to spend his vocational hours.
The specialization in labor,
large scale production and
limited working hours on the
one hand, and the tendency
to commercialize our most
popular entertainments and
amusements 0n the other,
have created what some feel

Dr. Hicks is the author of "A Handbook

of Social Programs for Teachers." The
ranking of volues for the school social
which he presents is the composite view
of “53 people representing fifty-three
writers in the field of extra-curricular
activities, 300 college and graduate stu-
dents, 250 high school superintendents
and teachers, l50 parents of high school
pupils, and #00 high school pupils, all a
random sompling from every state.

to be a crisis in our national moral life. We must
teach boys and girls to discriminate between en-
joyments that enrich and enlarge their lives, and
those that degrade and dissipate.

They should bring out the retiring, self—con—
scious type of pupil and prevent the development
of the anti-social type. The pupil who is shy, dif-
fident and timid, needs to be set free. It is pos—
sible through well-planned social evenings to
provide opportunities through which every pupil
may find release from the inhibitions and repres-
sions so common in the lives of many of our

young people.

They should develop an appreciation of the
esthetic in art and music; of intellect, humor and
human nature. Appreciation in the life of the in-
dividual is recreative in that it relieves the mind
of worry and soothes the emotions. It is imper-
sonal in that it takes us out of ourselves. It has
a close bearing on conduct as we become like that
which we appreciate.

They should supply one of the strongest inte—
grating forces of the school and promote school
morale. School loyalty and morale come only as
the pupils are kept busy and made happy through
excellent achievement both in their subjects and
in the planning and carrying out of successful
social activities. School spirit or morale may be
defined as that indefinite, subtle something which
permeates and motivates the school, giving-pur-
pose, life and meaning to the work of the school.
The growth of school loyalty makes for real in-
tegration and cements a heterogeneous group of
individuals into a unified, effective social group.

They should motivate such curricular activi—
ties as art, music, drama, English, home eco-
noinics, history, manual training and printing.
The social activities can make a real contribution
in the motivation of the curricular activities if
they are properly integrated with the subjects of
the curriculum. They may well form a practice
ground for much of the training, knowledge and
skill gained in the various
subjects and classrooms.

They should p r o m o t e
health of body and mind
through the proper function-
ing of the emotions. Health
of body and mind depends
upon the proper functioning
of the emotions, and here
wholesome enjoyment easily
ranks first. Professor Burn-

CEETING THE VALUES OUT OF THE SCHOOL SOCIAL 275

ham feels that if the junior high school in its type
of organization does nothing more than provide

the proper outlet for the emotional life it is worth
its cost.

They should provide activities suited to the ages
of the pupils and prevent too much imitation of
adult activities. There is much wholesome enjoy-
ment for pupils when participating in activities
that are on a par with their mental and social
maturity. If left to themselves in planning these
activities they will imitate the activities of adults
in bridge parties and similar activities.

They should provide teachers the opportunity
to set standards and ideals for social evenings.
The tone of any community’s social life may be
elevated by teachers who have high ideals. This
opportunity carries an obligation that cannot be
lightly thrown off by teachers.

then held on patriotic occasions, they should
increase the spirit of patriotism. Patriotic occa-
sions furnish a thread around which to weave
both the program and decoration features. When
the programs are built around the lives of great
leaders, they cannot fail to make the students feel
a keener sense of patriotism and a desire to emu—
late the lives of those who are being honored.

They should reveal latent talents and lead to
choice of vocations and careers. Miss Blackburn
in her book, Our High School Clubs, cites the
case of a boy who found decorating for high
school social events so interesting that he took up
interior decorating as a profession and is making
a decided success of it. Often a pupil who is
quiet, diffident or even apathetic, may be per-
suaded to take part in some play or school pro-
gram only to find that he has an unusual gift or
extraordinary ability.

They should help teachers see the world
through youthful eyes and keep them young.
Contact with young people in their social activi-
ties is one of the best ways for teachers continu-
ally to renew their youth. The mental hygienic
effect of laying aside one’s dignity and entering
wholeheartedly into youthful activities cannot be
overestimated. Strained nerves and poor diges-
tion find a wholesome tonic in these activities.
The teacher who takes time for his pupils. who
is interested in their mental health and develop-
ment, and Who associates with them in their social
activities, tends to get away from the modern of-
fendiculum in education.

They should contribute to worthy home mem—
bership. The most happy, joyous homes are those

in which parents and children play together,
where parents continue to derive enjoyment from
the activities of their children, and where they
become companions through such participation.
School social evenings have an effect upon the
homes. Parents receive the echoes from a suc-
cessful social evening for many days afterward.
The stunts and activities enjoyed by the youths
become the subject of conversation in the home,
and the parents rejoice in the wholesome amuse-
ment their sons and daughters have received.

They should satisfy the motor needs of youth
and give rhythm, grace and poise through esthetic
and folk dancing. Adolescence is the golden
period of the nascency of rhythm. During this
period the centers of cadence and rhythm are de-
ve10ping. Many educators feel that there is noth-
ing to commend in the modern jazz-accompanied
frenzy, mislabeled dancing, either from the physi-
cal or esthetic angle, leaving out of account its
moral aspects. But there is much to praise in the
attempted revival of folk dancing with its digni-
lied measures, its graceful movements and stately
poses.

They should help overcome the tendencies of
the serves to form separate organizations in the
first years of adolescence. There is a decided
tendency in early adolescence for the sexes to draw
apart and form separate organizations. This is
no doubt due to the new and novel interests which
are absorbing their attention. If teachers are in-
terested in bringing boys and girls together in the
school social, in which they put forth their best
efforts to entertain the opposite sex, and the
group as a whole, they are helping to overcome
the anti—social qualities that often lead to social
maladjustments. Especially important is it that
the proper type of school social be conducted in
the junior high school.

They should be preventives of problems of
school discipline. Interesting worthy activities
should absorb the attention to such an extent that
undesirable activities are not thought of. In the
writer’s own experience as a student, in instances
in which social evenings were forbidden for Hal-
lowe’en and April Fool nights, pranks and stunts
were inevitably carried on during the evening
hours which resulted in damage to school property
and considerable inconvenience. As a teacher in
high school he found that the anticipation and ex-
pectation of certain social events. in the arrange-
ment of which the pupils were held responsible

(Continued on page 300)

.A Summer Activity Program

for

Junior High Schools

" By EUGENE SANDERS

William A. Bass Junior High School
Atlanta, Georgia

the junior high school, the group of teachers

to whom the responsibility was given made
use of two factors contributing to the success of
the plan.

The first of these was the fact that the course
of study in the elementary schools had for several
years been based upon an activity program, thus
making it an easy step for pupils from these
schools and now in the junior high school to par-
ticipate in a summer activity program similar in
spirit. The other factor which proved an excel-
lent starting point for the actual planning, was
the outgrowth of the teaching of Dr. Sutton for
many years. It has been his objective to etch upon
the hearts of Atlanta’s growing children three
aims of his educational program expressed in the
slogan, “Health, Character and Scholarship.”
These things he emphasized constantly and urged
his teaching force to
stress. It may have been
in dealing with this latter
group that he felt the need
to add “cooperation” to
the slogan; but soon we
were hearing of coopera-
tion in home and church
and school. It has been
Dr. Sutton’s desire that a
school day should never
pass without every child’s
hearing these words and
being taught the value of
the ideas in more real

IN OUTLINING a summer activity program for

276

THE OBJECTIVES

To prevent the spirit of group endeavor from
dlssipating during the summer months into un-
guided and less social days of leisure

To guide the activities of children into chan-
nels not only pleasant to themselves but help-
ful to their communties, while training them
in citizenship responsibilities

To enrich the vacation period for the large
numbers of children who lack opportunity to
participate in organized vacationing

To bring the children back to school with the
sense that the summer has been a part of the
educational process in which they have carried
on experimentally, largely self guided, work
ways. - which is part of life as well as of school.

The interesting summer activity pro-
gram described here was planned by

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Superintendent
of the Atlanta Public Schools, and

past president of the National Edu-
cation Association, to include jun-
ior and senior high schools thus
extending a type of work already be-
ing done in the elementary schools.

 

It was because this wish of Dr. Sutton had
been at least partly realized and the effects were
gradually becoming noticeable, that the group felt
it had a starting point for its program in fields of
activity at once familiar, important and interest-
ing to the child. Somewhat later the ideas of con-
servation and beautification were added and simi-
larly treated, although the beautification idea de-
veloped into a city—wide project of major propor-
tions which has made Atlanta’s school grounds
during the years of the depression the most beau-
tiful in the history of an already beautiful city.

The Procedure

As a preliminary step, at the request of Dr.
Sutton the superintendents of the various depart-
ments and other members of the official staff had
made up a list of activities which they thought
would be worth while and interesting to the chil-
' dren under their super-
vision, and this list had
been printed and used
during the year before a
cooperative g r o u p of
teachers drawn from all
of the junior high schools
had been called upon to
formulate the present pro-
gram. With this list as a
guide, the group felt it
could well base a summer
activity program upon the
appeal generated in the
children for the six ideas
alreadymentioned. Treated

A SUMMER ACTIVITY PROGRAM FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 277

generously the divisions leave out no worth
while activity. Accordingly, steps were taken
along the following lines:

A list of credited summer activities was made
up embracing typical activities along each of the
six lines, some subdivisions being added for con—
creteness and to facilitate checking.

Each item was evaluated and definite limits set
so no child would labor in too narrow a field.
Each school was not only permitted, but urged, to
prepare supplementary lists, to have a standing
committee to credit and evaluate other worth
while activities, and to use the prepared list as
suggestions rather than as an ultimate list.

An educational program of publicity was ar—
ranged to emphasize summer activities both be—
fore and after the summer vacation period.

Before the end of school in the spring, and not
too near the end, each child was given a list of
summer activities and also a record sheet pro-
viding for necessary information regarding the
activities engaged in by the child, which would
present proof of satisfactory 'work by a responsi-
ble person. Each teacher went over this list with
the home room class, in many cases the pupils
making out tentative lists which they intended to
follow. Suggestions were welcomed and used.

A short program under the guidance of the
home room teacher was given by members of each
class with a view to arousing enthusiasm and of
pointing out the value and pleasure of the activi—
ties. Each home room teacher presented to the
class the school program to be
followed when school opened
in the fall, made plain the im—
portance of having the activi-
ties properly vouched for, and
told the class of the awards to
be made in the fall. Additional
lists and record sheets were
made available at branch
libraries.

The Activities

The activities on the list for
which points were given were
grouped under the following
general headings: Health and
Recreation — Personal Health,
Community Health, Sports,
Music and Art; Character;
Scholarship; Cooperation -— in
the Home, in the Community,

 

Courtesy Girl Scouts, Inc.

A proiect for which points are
given in the summer activity
program of the Atlanta schools

Conservation and Beautification. The total num-
ber of activities suggested was seventy-two.

A button was awarded each pupil winning 100
or more points, with a special award to the pupil
having the highest number in each grade. The
highest number of points awarded for any one
activity was 20. Ten points were given for many
of the activities, and five for several others. The
lowest number given in any instance was one.

The Follow-Up in the Fall

In the fall the following method was used:
During the first week of school three things were
done. An essay contest was held, pupils contest:-
ing only with those of the same grade. The win-
ning essays were published in the school paper
and awards made. Activity lists and record sheets
were collected and tabulated, and dental and
health certificates were gathered. _

During the second week of school three other
summer activities matters were featured on the
same day. A home room program on summer ac-
tivities was given by the class, and as a special
feature of this there was held throughout the
school a poster contest, each class selecting its
winning poster. Each class had an exhibit in its
own home room of all the things made by mem-
bers of the class which could be displayed, and
selected winners.

During the third week of school there were two
main events to bring pride and pleasure to the
participants. First there was a summer activities
fair. This was a diSplay, pro-
perly labeled and grouped, of
everything that showed the ac-
tivities of the children during
the summer. The winning es—
says, winning posters, records
of dental and health certificates.
as well as articles on exhibit,
gave a large and satisfactory in-
terest to great numbers. A most
varied realm of activity was
shown, from pig growing to
saxophone playing; but the
numbers attending and the
pride and interest shown well
repaid the extra' exertion of
housing pigs along with peoniesl

The culmination came at the
school assemblies, at which
those winning in the various

(Continued on page 301)

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP

N ationol Recreation Association

A few of the things the
director takes up in that
important first rehearsal

. EFORE STARTING rehearsals the competent di-
B rector studys the play thoroughly, and goes
through the procedure of “blocking out"
the production. This means the placing of the
doors, windows and other exits in the set, the
position of the furniture or set pieces, such as
trees and walls, and the position and grouping of
the actors in the various scenes of the play.

Blocking Out the Play

A model stage made of a grocery box, furni-
ture, and small figures representing the characters
in the play—these may be made of cardboard—-
offer the most efficient method of blocking out a
play. The director goes through the play, mov-
ing the small figures about and planning the posi-
tions or stage groupings for each scene. After

the position for a scene satisfies him, he diagrams,

the positions for the scene on the margin of his
manuscript. If the margin is not wide enough a
sheet of paper may be pasted to the edge of each
sheet of the manuscript for this purpose and for
the jotting down of notes during rehearsals.

A thorough blocking out of a play before start-
ing rehearsals not only saves the time (and
nerves) of the actors, but gives them confidence
in the director.

In planning the stage positions and groupings
the director keeps certain points in mind. First,
he considers visability. The actors should be vis-
able to the audience. The following suggestions
are made in this connection:

I. Keep the actors out from behind the furniture.

Inexperienced actors have a tendency to edge
behind something, (perhaps it is a desire for
protection), with the result thatothey often
look as they were cut off in the middle. They
should do their acting alongside the furn1ture,
or out in the front of it, not behind it.

278

"Rehearsing for Position" is the sub-
iect of this month's article in which
Mr. Knapp stresses the importance of

"blocking out" the play before start-
ing rehearsals.

He takes the reader
through the first rehearsal which is
devoted to positions and groupings.
In the October number Mr. Knapp will
continue the consideration of rehears-
als and will discuss "Line, Business
and Voice Rehearsals."

 

2. Keep the actors out from behind each other.
Nothing irritates an audience more than not
being able to see an actor on the stage. The
actor up stage (away from the audience)
should see that no one gets between himself
and the audience.

3. Keep the actors in the acting or visible area of
the stage. Many amateur theatres have poor
sight lines, and an actor too far to one side of
the stage can not be seen by part of the
audience.

4. Actors important to the scene should play
down stage (down near the audience) rather
than up stage.

The director planning stage positions must also
consider what might be called “pictorial rules.”
Stage positions and groupings should be so
worked out that he might cry “halt” at any

moment and the stage would present an interest-
ing and artistic picture to the audience.

1. Avoid straight lines across the stage. Nothing
is more amateurish, in the unpleasant sense,
than a lot of actors standing in a row like a
display of footmen. The lines on the stage
should be broken and interesting to the eye.

to

. The picture must have a center of interest.
The actors who hear the weight of the scene
are the center of interest and naturally should
occupy the center of the acting arca.

3. The stage should be well balanced. This effect
is maintained not only by the arrangement of
the fUrniture but by the grouping of the actors.
Balance does not always mean equal distribu-
tion of numbers. One actor may be so import—
ant in a particular scene that he will balance a
large crowd on the other side of the stage.
Example, Mark Anthony adressing the mob.

In planning the positions the director also con-
siders the character of the scene, the emotions of

HOW’ TO PRODUCE A PLAY 279

the characters and the action of the play. If this
scene were to take place in real life, what would
be the logical and natural position of the charac-
ters in the scene? He must group his characters
in a manner that is psychologically correct. The
following examples may clarify this point:

I. A and B are quarreling violently. C, a mutual
friend and neutral, tries to make peace between
them. Where would he take his position upon
the stage? Between A and B, naturally. If he
were to take a position alongside of one of
them, he would be considered by the other,
and by the audience, as favoring the one he
was standing beside.

2. The hero and heroine are alone upon the stage
and a love scene is in progress. Would it be
natural to have the hero on one side of the
stage and the heroine on the other? Foolish
question, isn’t it? Yet the author has seen
love scenes performed in that fashion..

3. Two groups of people on the stage are enemies
and are meeting to negotiate a truce. Would
the groups intermingle? One group would
stay on one side, the other on the other, until
the truce has been successfully negotiated.
After that they might mingle.

The First Rehearsal

After blocking out the play, the director calls
his first rehearsal. This first rehearsal, and pos-
sibly the second, is called “position” rehearsal or
rehearsals. The director advises the actors not
to worry about lines, voice or expression, but to
concentrate on the stage positions and groupings.
'Each actor has his manuscript. They get up on
the stage and go through the play, reading their
lines from the scripts and, if necessary, marking
down their own positions on the margins of the

manuscripts. They discover their individual ex- '

its and entrances, so that the butler does not
bring the guests through the kitchen door and
serve the coffee from the entrance to the front
yard. They find out where they cross over, where
they sit down and stand up, where they are when
they give their various speeches, so that at the
conclusion of the rehearsal, or two rehearsals, if
necessary, each actor knows just about where he
is going to be during the entire play. He then
takes the same position at each rehearsal, unless
it is changed by the director.

If positions and groupings are not worked out
during the first rehearsals, the director is going
to be assaulted with a barrage of questions.
“What door do I come in?” “Where do I exit?”
“Where am I supposed to go now?” “John’s

standing in front of me.” “How do I get over
there?” “Should I sit down now?” Moreover
the reader is familiar with the sensation which
comes when he is not sure that he belongs in his
present position. It is a decidedly uncomfortable
and self conscious feeling! The actor, until he
discovers his pr0per place, has that same feeling,
but as soon as he knows that he is supposed to
stand in a certain place upon the stage for a par-
ticular speech, he forgets himself and thinks of
the speech. Every director strives to get his
actors in that state of mind.

The inexperienced actor should know the names
of the various parts of the stage, and the wise
director gives them this information at the first
rehearsal. The director does not say “Mary, come
over here,” or “John, go over there.” He says,
“Mary, come down right,” or “John, go up left
center.”

“Down stage” is down towards the audience.
“Up stage” is up away from the audience. (Not
back stage, which means around behind the scen—
ery out of sight.)

“Right” is the actor’s right and “left” the
actor’s left, when he is facing the audience.

The following diagram illustrates the parts of
the acting stage:

BACK STAGE
U. R. U. R. c. U. c. U. L.C. U. L.

R. R. c. c. L. c. L.
n. R. n. R. c. n. c. n. L. c. D. L.
AUDIENCE

One rehearsal for position is usually enough,
and seldom will more than two be required. As
rehearsals progress the director may find it neces-
sary to change positions or groupings, but the
actors take the positions designated at the position "
rehearsals until changed by the director.

“When the normal adjustment of society to a
state of high productivity shall have been attained
it will be found that the cultural activities of
life occupy central place. Slum districts will give
way to parks, public health services will be
greatly extended. . . . Education for children and
adults will grow in quality and extent. There will
be a demand for music and drama and archi-
tecture and for all the arts. The arts of living, of
using leisure time, of social cooperation, of per-
sonal relationships will develop in more ways
than we now know.”-—David Cushman Coyle.
Midmonthly Survey, July.

Some Guiding Principles

in-
Gome Selection

A few suggestions for the choice of
games which will satisfy the needs,
abilities and interests of children ‘

UR FUNCTION is to help children learn desir-
O able responses which are in varying degrees
mental, social, moral and physical, through
big brain-muscle activities. As a result of these
responses, steps toward reaching certain general
aims and specific objectives may be made. We
should conform to the aims of general education.
We should also conform to the aims and objec-
tives of physical education based on the needs of
the child. We should analyze these ideals, aims
and objectives until they can be stated in terms of
specific activities. We may, then, assume to select
the best of these activities for meeting the needs
of the child, recognizing the needs of each par-
ticular group on each different playground.

Our aims and objectives in the selection of a
game program are directed towards the develop-
ment of the instincts, needs and capacities of the
individual so that he will enjoy a healthful, happy
and useful period of childhood and become a
healthy, happy and useful citizen. It is our prob-
lem to translate into definite activities the physi--
cal, moral, social and intellectual aims and
objectives.

An analysis of each age level shows us that
there are certain inherent characteristics of that
particular age group which influence largely the
type of activity to be selected and the need for
making certain application at that particular stage
This we can accept in spite of the great diverg-
ence of opinions as to the number and duration
of age classifications and groupings. Few educa-
tors agree either upon the number or the 'length
of the periods. All agree, however, that there is
continuity of interest and ability and that changes

280

 

Courtesy Birmingham Park and Recreation Department

. By ARTHUR T. NOREN

National Recreation Association

from one period to another are gradual and sub-
j ect to individual differences. We can think of the
changing stages of child development as the in-
tertwined, continuous strands of a rope rather
than the connected, though separated, rungs of a
ladder. There is insufiicient objective evidence
for us to assume that at certain age levels the
diversity of play interests suddenly increases or
decreases, or that social or individualistic behavior
is limited to certain periods. However, although .
we are concerned with the child as an individual
and it is desirable to select activities that best sat-
isfy him, it is obviously impossible to carry this

-out practically. We attempt, then, to get the aver-

age for his age and then by adjustment and read-
justment within the group, approximate the de-
sired result.

Analyzing Children’s Spontaneous Activities

Perhaps a first step in selection of the game
program is the analysis of the worthwhile activi—
ties to which children spontaneously tum. It
seems reasonable to suppose that the activities in
which children voluntarily participate represent
their genuine interests. If these can 'be identified
by the director as the games which a childiplays
“just because he wants to,” a valuable suggestion
for his program has been secured. The evalua-
tion of the play life of the child should be a
guiding factor in determination of interest. It

SOME GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN GAME SELECTION 281

.. AW"“W,N,‘,’ '- - 

A well planned game program will in-
clude the Fundamental movements and

skills .of running, iumping, climbing,
throWIng, hitting and catching.

 

seems logical to assume that an effort should be
made to enable children most profitably to engage,
under skilled leadership, in those activities in
which they will ultimately participate through
their own choice. ‘It would seem wise for the
leader to teach a child to do better the things that
he will do whether he be instructed or unin-
structed regarding them. Is not the duty of the
leader so to train a child that he will be equipped
especially to take part in the experiences of his
everyday world? This, accompanied by the op—
portunity to modify these experiences so as to
promote human welfare, is a worthwhile challenge.

What do children of various ages actually do
outside of the classroom or on the playground,
when the choice of activities is left to them? For
these activities constitute their play life—their
own response to felt needs—it is their real edu-
cation. This question has been considered in a
number of studies and researches, notably, “The
Psychology of Play,” by Lehman and Witty, and
“Game Preferences of 10,000 Fourth Grade Chil-
dren,” by Miss Norma Schwenderer. Many of
these, particularly the latter, emphasize the fact
that the games selected of their own choice by
children are exceedingly limited. This is true
even where a wide variety of games have been
offered by the teacher in class. In many cases it
was noted that the children would select games
for their “free” play that were not presented as
part of class instruction. Children are happy in
known activities and should not be rushed breath—
lessly from one satisfying activity to another for
the sake of curriculum requirements. Growth
continues in a known activity far longer than the

teacher realizes. It may be true that the variety
of game activities offered is due to a response to
the boredom which adults often feel toward oft
repeated activities of the more simple types.

It is the observation of several studies on this
specihc question that while younger children en-
gaged in a larger number of activities and mani-

and girls of sixteen years of age would participate
in only half as many different games as children
of eight. Can we not assume, then, that in our
selection games should be made progressively
fewer in number but more definitely directed to
meet the particular evidenced interests? The
matter of selection of the games to use is, then,
an important step, for it would beimpossible to
teach all, even those that are satisfactory, and
selection should insure against wasting time on
the useless or even harmful activities. The selec—
tion should be made on the analysis of life activi-
ties and the value in their use to the individual.

Wood and Cassidy in The New Physical Edu-
cation have carefully worked out, through a pro-

cess of “job-analysis,” the needs of the individual,
both vocational and avocational. With children.

considered. The next step was to determine what
the conduct of a good citizen is in terms of ac-
tivities which will make this conduct a function-
ing part of a child’s life. A further step was the
study of community groups to know and provide

 
   
 
 
 
   
 

At the Eastern District Conference of
the American Physical Education Asso-
ciation held at Springfield, Massachu-
setts last April, Mr. Noren presented
some of the underlying and generally
accepted principles involved in the se-
lection, on an educational basis, of
children's games.

 
 

282 SOME GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN GAME SELECTION

for the needs of adult life, not only in bodily
vigor, but also in attitudes, habits and recreational
preferments.

For example, it is pointed out in The New
Physical Education that a boy of from ten to
eleven years of age is growing rapidly in height
and weight. His liver and kidneys are still large
and his heart small. He has great curiosity. He
is independent, likes to be trusted, enjoys activi-
ties of all kinds, likes to play games with rules
and is interested in gaining skills. Sex antagonism
is noticeable about this age. He is more of a
social being than formerly. He wants to be a
member of a group but has difficulty in adjusting
himself to others in the group. Rivalry is the ex-
pression of his desire to be somebody, to be
noticed by the group. To meet these character-
istics and needs of the child of this age, taken
from an authoritative treatise on this subject,
The Psychology of Childhood by Norsworthy and
Whitley, \Vood and Cassidy have set up the ob-
jectives and aims of the teacher, as follows:

I. To deve10p favorable attitudes toward play

and exercise

2. To provide three hours a day of physical

activity

3. To give games with mental content

4. To teach as many skills as possible

5. To give club and team activities

6. To give games of adventure

The director, then having in mind, first the gen-
eral aims which concern the child; secondly, the
specific needs and characteristics of his particular
group, and thirdly, his own objectives for this
particular group, should then be equipped to
know what activities are helpful for their realiza-
tion and be able to suggest certain activities which
the children may adapt, adopt or develop. As
activities which seem consistent and effective in
both meeting the needs and characteristics as well
as the objectives and aims, the following are sug—
gested for this group: variations of tag games—
relays—number call—club snatch—stunts—swim-
ming—tennis—soccer—baseball—winter sports—
formation of clubs and teams.

Our task is to go through the range of motor
activities, selecting and reject-
ing, keeping and using those
through which we make our
ideas and ideals function, dis-
carding those which cannot
produce effective results. Ac-
cording to the findings of the

"We may really and confidently hope
for a democracy of play when we have
evolved ways of giving every child
of today those progressive play ex-
periences found of proved value by
the children of the centuries."

study of Miss Schwanderer, four common ele-
ments were found in most of the popular games.
These are:

I. General bodily activity plus certain specific

physical skills

2. Strenuous and general participation

3. Competitive behavior, and

4. Social organization of the two-group type

The presence of these elements so constantly
leads to the conclusion that they are satisfying
and pleasing to children, certainly of the fourth
grade and probably throughout school.

Value of Free Play and Group Games

We feel certain that free play and most group
games are activities which will aid in making the
aims set up concrete in terms of conduct. They
include the fundamental movements and skills of
running, jumping, climbing, throwing, hitting,
catching. The free play is the life activity of the
child up to school age and through the first few
grades. Games are the child’s primary means of
growth and education from infancy on up through
the school years. These activities are satisfying
because they meet growth needs which are not
met by any other kind of activity. They give
physical vigor through exercise; they supply
many opportunities for the formation of social
and moral responses; they are mentally stimulat-
ing in that they demand rapid decisions, organiza-
tion and testing of one’s own ideas.

Our emphasis, as teachers, should be devoted
primarily to teaching those activities which will
tend to go on spontaneously in children’s free
time and there be organized to mold skills, habits
and attitudes for recreation all through life.

Individual Events Versus Major Team Games

The difficulty in reaching these objectives has
been due largely to our emphasis on the so-called
major team games, such as basketball, baseball
and football. These games are highly complex in
their technique, elaborate in their system of rules,
and involved in team play, necessitating a higher
degree of skill from every player. To organize a
physical education program with emphasis on
these games will mean that the
large majority of players will
soon find themselves unable to
meet the requirements in co-
ordination, skill, special tech-
nique and general fitness. Un—
less they can measure up to

SOME GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN GAME SELECTION 283

the standards of performance, their participation
detracts from the enjoyment of the game by
themselves and by the other players. Their own
weakness is soon recognized and at the first op-
portunity they refrain from playing and soon join
the group who sit by the sidelines and watch the
skilled few perform.

Instead of centering most of our attention on
the major team games in their final complex and
technical form, attention should be given to an
organization of individual events selected from
most or all of the broad groups of natural and
related big muscle activities. Individual events

apply to those activities in which each individual
carries on the whole activity by himself without
dependence on the activities of others. The ad-
vantages of individual activities, as pointed out
by Clark W. Hetherington in the School Program
in Physical Education, are: (a) The activities can
be organized equally well in the instructional
period or play periods; (b) they can be practiced
(when learned) by individual children them-
selves; (c) they can be engaged in by the indi—
vidual or by a social group; (d) they give the
best physical-training results because each indi-
vidual is active all the time, or active in turn, and
gets all the benefit of each activity; (e) the ac-
tivities can be graded progressively to each pupil’s
needs or to the needs of small groups of pupils;
(f) each pupil can be taught or observed as an
individual and each can progress as an individual ;
(g) the activities can be organized by the average
teacher, anywhere, under any conditions.

A large part of physical-training activities are
of this individual nature. Those that are not in-
dividual can best be learned or taught by individu—
alizing them. Team games are the best illustra-
tion of this. These team games are the great
standard big-muscle play activities of late adoles-
cence and early adult life. Because they are ball
games and competitive, they are the most stimu-
lating activities after nine or ten years of age.
But children between nine and fourteen years of
age, and frequently older children, do not usually
have the strength or the skill to play these games
effectively in the school time available, or under
school conditions, and get educational results out
of them. This is especially true of girls. Most of
the time in the game is wasted through the awk-
wardness 0f mates or opponents. The games
however, can be modified to meet the plan by

making individual contests out of the elements of
the games. By devising contests based on the
characteristic elements of each game the ball and
the competitive features are retained, as, for ex-
ample, throwing the basketball for goals or
throwing a baseball for strikes. Such events give
very stimulating educational athletic activities for
the younger ’teen or inexperienced children
These individualized events give a rapid develop-
ment of strength and skills for the standard
games and, together with track events in running
and jumping for boys, should form the great bulk
of the edUcational athletic activities.

\Ve would then take every boy and girl through
a progressive program starting with simple games
and contests that emphasize and test individual
skill and which lead to more advanced games and
skills and finally to major team games. If such a
program were adequate, every player would have
a real experience in the fundamental skills under-
lying the satisfactory playing of a team game, and
through lead-up games, interesting in themselves,
would have gained a fair knowledge of the im-
portant rules.

“I e must promote activities that will meet the
child's complete growth..needs; we must present
those activities in a manner so satisfying to the
child that he will tend to repeat them and es-
tablish habits that will be evidenced by his own
choice in his free time, and we must foster activi-
ties whereby social attitudes can be learned and
made into general ideals and standards for all of
his life activities.

“The wonderful art of the ancient Greeks was
largely due to their fine physical culture, which
they coordinated with the culture of the mind and
expressed in beautiful games. Their games were
the growing point of their arts. Through their
physical culture and through the games they
grafted on to it, in which rhythmical dancing
played an important part, they learned how to
bring their bodies under the control of their in-
telligence, and having established skill in that
fundamental form they went on from it, step by
step, to the higher recreation in art and thought,
not only producing works of visible beauty which
are joys forever, but creative thinkers whose
wisdom is still one of our greatest treasures.”
L. P. Jacks, in Education Through Recreation.

A City Provides for its Unemployed ‘

Cincinnati's Committee on Opportunities tells in its annual

report how many local agencies are pooling their resources.

INCINNATI, OHIO, in its program of work
C for the unemployed is utilizing the services

of a Committee on Opportunities formed
through the cooperative efforts of many organi-
zations, including the Public Recreation Commis-
sion, the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., the public
schools, the Catholic Charities and the Associated
Charities—all working to find opportunities for
those of the unemployed wishing recreation and
education.

In the fall of 1932 the committee sent out 2,300
circulars stating that educational and recreational
stimuli were just as necessary to the unemployed
as material assistance, and asking for the time,
talent and financial help of those willing to con-
tribute along these lines. These circulars describ-
ing the objectives of the committee were sent to
members of boards of directors of civic and social
organizations, men’s and women’s clubs, churches.
organizations belonging to the Chamber of Com-
merce, the University of“ Cincinnati, substitute
teachers in the public schools and the members of
many smaller community organizations. One hun—
dred and twenty volunteers responded offering to
teach such subjects as art, bookkeeping, child
care, cooking and civics. Some volunteered to
lead discussion groups, others to direct glee clubs
and community singing, to take charge of recre-
ation activities or to give lectures on diversified
topics.

A girls’ orchestra of seven pieces offered to
play for dances for the unemployed without com—
pensation. Services for 202
varied activities were reg-
istered and a total of $209
was received for operating
expenses. The public li-
brary loaned the committee
space in its building for a
centrally located offlce. A
desk and filing cabinet were
provided by the schools and
two typewriters furnished

284

community.

Recreation for the unemployed is assum-
ing such Importance ,in [the present emer-
gency that it has seemed wise to devote
some space to the subject in current issues
of "Recreation." We are therefore attempt-
ing to present from month to month some
of the ways in which various cities through-
out the country are meeting the problem,
and the plans they are using to make avail-
able the facilities of all the groups of the

by members of the committee. A secretary was
engaged in November and the committee pro-
ceeded with a winter and spring program.

During the summer of 1932 the school princi-
pals and leaders in districts where large numbers
of unemployed live had been consulted on the ad-
visability of establishing classes in their districts.
The committee initiated its activities by organiz-
ing in two of the school areas classes in sewing,
dramatics and business English at one center, and
dramatics and child care at the second. As new
requests for classes were registered at the office
additional groups were organized. These included
classes in free-hand drawing, elementary short-
hand, bookkeeping, child care, dramatics, public
speaking for men, Spanish, piano playing, sewing
and singing.

An Art Workshop

In addition, the committee conducted two com-
plete free courses. In a room furnished at the
Commercial Arts Building an art workshop was
established in which free classes and materials
were offered the unemployed. Experienced and
capable teachers donated their services for such
classes as free-hand drawing, fashion drawing, de-
signing, sketching and leather craft. The attend-
ance at these classes and interest shown by the
students in the work, and the excellent content of
the courses made the art workshop a most suc-
cessful project. Its policy was determined by a
committee consisting of representatives from the
. Crafters, the Women’s Art
Club, Men's Art Club, the
Art Committee of the Cin-
cinnati Woman’s Club, the
art museum, the League of
Women Voters, the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati, the
Y. \V. C. A. and the Public
Recreation Commission.
Funds to meet expenses
w er e supplied by the

A CITY PROVIDES FOR ITS UNEMPLOYED 285

Crafters and the \Vomen’s
Art Club.

Other Classes

Another group of free
classes arranged under the
auspices of the committee
were the commercial
courses taught at the Con-
roy Business S c h o o l .
Classes in elementary and
intermediate 5 h o r th a n d ,
advanced dictation, typ-
ing, business and advanc-
ed English, arithmetic and

HThese are truly times that try men's patience
to the limit of human endurance. Citizens are
assailed on all sides with half-truths, doubt-
ings and misrepresentations. Unreasonable de-
mands for curtailment of vital activities are
heard on every side. Recreational activities
of government are referred to as "luxuries."
Thought is given to dollars and cents, and the
human equation seems to have been overlooked.
. . . . Ordinarily each one of us feels the need
for receation and love of the outdoors, and
the desire for cultural and physical advance-
ment is as natural as is breathing to the nor-
mal man or woman or child. This basic and fun-
damental need becomes more acute in times like
these. Being dependent on one another in most
things, we are more so than ever now."—A. V.

CoeddeI, City Manager, San Diego, California.

tended by 400 people.

In January through the
Junior Placement Bureau,
the Committee and the
Recreation Commission
sent out to unemployed
young men and women
approximately 1,000 cir-
ulars asking what classes
and what types of recrea—
tion they preferred. Three
hundred replies were re-
ceived and suggestions
were issued telling where
the specified classes and

bookkeeping, are filled to
capacity and will continue during the summer.

In February and March the committee offered
to the unemployed a series of talks on personal
hygiene and the attributes of a good personality,
and entitled the series, “Charm for Those Who
Want It.” The topics included were: “Any Girl
Can Be Attractive”; “The Charm of Speaking
Well”; “The Charm of Good Health”; “The
Charm of a Pleasing Personality”; “The Charm
of Good Manners”; “Books, the Windows of
Life”; “The Charm of Music”; “Art in Everyday
Life”; “Some Ideals in Marriage,” and “The
Charm of the Out-of—Doors.” The attendance at
these talks varied'from 25 to 85 persons, about
one-third of whom were men.

Through all its classes, not including the Charm
School talks, the Committee on Opportunities
reached approximately 500 different individuals.
The enrollment for all the classes was approxi-
mately 600, and the complete aggregate attend-
ance to the end of May was 5,008. There were
almost an equal number of men and women reg-
istered in the classes open to both sexes.

Since the beginning of its activities the Com-
mittee on Opportunities has cooperated closely
with the Public Recreation Commission. Under
the auspices of the two groups monthly entertain-
ments were arranged in thirteen school districts.

At the initial entertainments in each school the
function and activities of the committee were an-
nounced. If the people in the community were
interested in a certain subject, a class was or-
ganized. In this way a number of classes were
initiated. The attendance at each entertainment
ranged from 70 to 700 people, and the aggregate
attendance of all entertainments was 11,895. The
committee also arranged three free dances at-

recreation activities could
be found.

At the request of the directors of the Vocation
Bureau and the Cincinnati night schools, the com—
mittee made a study of the reasons for the with-
drawal of students from the night schools. Per-
sonal contacts were made with 325 students who
had withdrawn and the reasons for their. with-
drawal were determined whenever possible. The
report was submitted to the Cincinnati Public
Schools.

The summer activities of the committee will be
almost entirely of a recreational nature, including
picnics and hikes. These activities are being ar-
ranged by the Public Recreation Commission, the
family welfare agencies and the committee.

The committee has received much publicity for
its activities. The newspapers have given a great
deal of space to its announcements and the Cin-
cinnati Street Railway Company for a week car-
ried in its street cars a placard stimulating interest
in the work of the committee. This publicity, as
well as the circulars sent to a mailing list, has at-
tracted many people to the office of the committee.

Since its inception in 1932, the committee, ac-
cording to Mrs. Murray Seasongood, its chair-
man, has attempted to serve the threefold pur-
pose of compiling information on all free classes
and recreational opportunities in Cincinnati, of
registering the demand for free opportunities and
directing the unemployed to these opportunities
according to their interests and abilities, and of
providing an impetus for the establishment of
new free classes and recreational groups. The
committee’s progress has been a process of ex-
perimentation and every effort has been made to
maintain flexibility in adapting the program to
the needs of the unemployed.

'}

   
 
 

Some of the winners in the bird
house contest in Des Moines,lowa.

OME OF THE many ways in
S which libraries are helping
to promote leisure time ac-
tivities are outlined in The
Library Journal for May 15th.
At the Des Moines, Iowa,
Main Library and ten branches
there have been from time to
time exhibits of books and pos-
ters with material relative to the
project of recreational hobbies and ways in which
leisure might be spent. These included both chil-
dren and adults. At one branch a group of chil-
dren, meeting Saturday mornings, made marion-
ettes and later gave a marionette show at the
library story hour to all the children of the neigh-
borhood. At another branch, the children made
bird houses in their spare time.

Reading Lists and Courses

During the past year the Newark, New Jersey,
Public Library has tried to make a direct appeal
to those people who through unemployment are
faced with a greater amount of leisure than ever
before. Early last fall a complete issue of the
library’s bulletin, The Library, was devoted to
reading lists and suggestions designed to be of as-
sistance to those who are unemployed. These in—
cluded not only reading lists of “how-to-do-it”
books and recreational reading, but also featured

286

The Library

and

Recreation

 
   

Courtesy The Library Journal

A scene from Cinderella given at a story
hour in the Public Library of Des Moines

such things as lists of playgrounds and other rec-
reational opportunities in the city, as well as adult
educational opportunities. The books included in
the reading list, together with a number of others,
were placed in a special collection in the reading
room. Extra c0pies of the bulletin were distribu-
ted to the various relief agencies and organiza-
tions engaged in similar work for distribution as
they saw fit. A-poster guide to the opportunities
for free recreation and study in the city, prepared
by the library and printed at the expense of the
Newark \Velfare Agency, was widely distributed
throughout the city. The library reports that this
special collection of books was one of the most
widely used which the library has ever assembled.

Reading courses for young people who because
of financial conditions are unable to attend

THE LIBRARY AND RECREATION 287

college and who are unemployed. are now being
offered by the Oregon State Library. These non-
'credit courses are designed for those who are not
able to take extension courses and who are not
within the territory served by the Portland Public
Library.

The benefits of summer camps for boys and
girls are shown in an elaborate camping tableau
which is being displayed in the rotunda of the
Milwaukee Public Library. The purpose is to
interest boys and girls who have never been to
camp, and groups from a number of organiza-
tions have been invited to participate. The Pub-
lic Library has contributed a model collection of
books on camps to the exhibit.

Cooperation with Local Groups

Interesting information regarding the work of
the Wichita, Kansas, City Library is given by
Miss Vera W. Schott in an article entitled, “The
Children’s Department and Recreational Agen-
cies,” appearing in the June, 1933, issue of the
Book List. The Children’s Department has for a
number of years been working in cooperation
with the recreational agencies of the city. Its co-
operation with the Boy Scouts is particularly in-
teresting since it is the privilege of the library to
give the Scouts their merit badge test in reading.
Each Scout who Wishes to pass this badge test
reads at least one book a month for a year after
becoming a second class Scout. Most of the boys
read either from the children’s room in the main
library or from one of
the school b r a n c h li-

The library also does much to assist members
of the Girl Scout troops by guiding the girls in
their reading. The official handbook of the Girl
Scouts and their magazine and other publications
are on file for their use.

The Children’s Department of the library co—
operates with the Girl Reserves in giving book
talks and in storytelling. Books from the library
are sent to the Y. \V. C. A. camp used by the
Girl Reserves.

Storytelling and Drama

Each summer the Children’s Department sends
a worker once a week to every playground center
to tell stories. Some work has also been done in
story dramatization by the playground groups.
Classes in storytelling have been conducted by the
library at variOUs times upon request of certain
groups, such as Sunday School teachers, uni-
versity summer school students and groups of
mothers who Wish to be equipped to tell stories
to their own children. The work with this group
has led to the organization of an active story-
telling club.

Another activity of the Children’s Department
is in connection with the Peter Pan Players, 3
group of young actors who give a series of five
plays during the Winter. The Department has a
part in the selection of the plays for this group,
encourages the reading of the books on which the
plays are based, and helps with the publicity for
the plays. “\Ve are glad,” writes Miss Schott,
“to cooperate in this ac-
tivity whic h provides

braries and thus receive
assistance throughout the
year in the selection of
their books. The Chil-
dren’s Department main-
tains a complete file of
the Boy Scout merit
badge tests pamphlets and
the library pamphlets.
Scouting magazines are
also on file. \Vorkers
from the Children’s De-
partment are frequently
asked to talk at meet-
ings of the Scout mas-
ters on storytelling and
on ways of interesting
boys in the reading of
good books.

"There should be more chance everywhere not
only to hear but to take part in the production
of good music; there should be choruses and or-
chestras in every community; there should be
more participation in the production of plays
and pageants, more foll< dancing, more widely dif-
fused skill in the use of pencil and brush, more
knowledge of natural science, more activity in the
crafts, so that in each community beautiful pot—
tery or rugs or handwoven fabrics may be pro—
duced, gardens cultivated, experiments made in
horticulture, in breeding, more study of birds,
of plants, of soils, so that each member of a
family shall be interested in raising or producing
something that shall contribute to the beauty,
the comfort or the interest of the home and to
the enrichment of his own life.

"In the forwarding of these manifold interests
the library can and must play a most important
port. It may be a center from which shall radiate
not only information but quickening impulses,
dynamic forces, spiritual influences—losephinc

A. Rathbone, in TheLfbrary/oumal, May l5, l933.

both for actors and aud—
iences so much Whole—
some recreation and
which does so much to
develop the cultural life
of the community.”

“The extent of library
cooperation with recrea—
tional agencies need be
limited only by the size
of the library staff and
the book collection, as
each contact that is made
opens up endless possi-
bilities.”

 

Query—Do you work
with your library on 10-
cal recreation projects?

Chess Tournaments in Milwaukee

 

By DONALD B. DYER

Supervisor, Extension Department

Milwaukee School Board

111: MILWAUKEE Public Schools Extension

Department has demonstrated the possibili-

ties of the game of chess as a recreational
activity. The grand old game had been practi-
cally dead in Milwaukee for several years. Private
chess clubs had been organized from time to time
but were short-lived, and there was little interest
in the game.

Chess Classes Popular

In January, 1931, the Extension Department
started to stimulate interest in chess. Classes
were opened for both beginners and advanced
students. Twelve social centers conducted a be—
ginners’ and an advanced course, each course con-
sisting of eight lessons taught by expert chess
players of years of playing experience. Each les-
son was mimeographed and given to the class
members for further home study. The first hour
of the class lesson was devoted to study of the
lesson, and the second hour to simultaneous play

288

Where chess is so important it has
been given a home oi its own!

by the instructor. A demonstration board, four
feet square with four inch chess men, was used
for class work. So much enthusiasm was aroused
by these courses that they were repeated in 1932
when they met with even greater success.

During the last two years approximately 400
lessons have been given, resulting in over 2,000
new chess players. Chess courses have again
been announced for 1933. An entirely new ad-
vanced course has been prepared which will offer
new material to those who attended classes in
past years, as well as to new students of the
game.

The First Chess Congress
In April, 1931, the Extension Department
sponsored its first annual chess congress. A
double gymnasium in one of the social centers was
used. Eight tables, each seating sixteen, were set
up for simultaneous play. Eight of the best play-
ers of the city played 128 persons simultaneously.

CHESS TOURNAMENTS IN MILLVAUKEE 289

In March, 1932, the second annual congress was
held, attracting 170 players at ten simultaneous
tables and 400 spectators.

With the interest aroused there came a demand
for clubs, tournaments or some type of competi-
tion. The problem was solved by the organization
by the Extension Department of a Municipal
Chess League. A committee of chess enthusiasts
was called, a league constitution was drawn up,
and a classification committee, a protest board,
and an award and match committee were ap-
pointed.

The classification committee classified the play-
ers according to their playing strength into four
classes: Major AAA, Major AA, Major A, and
Minor. Major league teams were charged a fran-
chise fee of $2.00, and the Minor League $1.00.
A schedule was made and the battles began. The
four leagues were composed of 32 teams, with
four men on a team. A total of 143 players were
registered, 528 games were played during the
two-round schedule. All leagues and all teams
played on Monday evenings at the same time and
place. The average age of the 143 registered
players was 32 years. The total attendance at the
league matches exceeded 1,500 people. The sea—
son closed with a banquet in one of the social
centers. The 1933 season was opened January
16th, and present indications point to more teams
this year and a bigger and better season of mu-
nicipal chess than was 1932.

Special Activities

The award and match committee has been very
active. Inter—city matches were promoted with
the Oak Park, Illinois, Chess Club and with the
Chicago Chess League. In July, 1932, this com—
mittee sponsored a municipal chess picnic at one
of the county parks, with the Chicago Chess
League as guests. This outdoor event attracted
500 people. A complete program of games for
the children, bridge for the ladies and chess
matches for the men,
was arranged.

Chess Champion, was the visiting master, playing
thirty players simultaneously. He won twenty-
eight games, lost one and drew one before 150
spectators. It is planned again to have a master
visit Milwaukee for an exhibition match in 1933.
The Milwaukee Public Schools Extension De-
partment was asked by the Wisconsin State Chess
Champion to sponsor an annual tournament for
the state title. Consequently such a tournament
was conducted. There were twenty entrants, par-
ticipants paying an entrance fee of $1.00, and a
new state champion was crowned in Wisconsin.
All league games, tournaments and inter—city
matches of the Municipal Chess Association are
held in the social centers. One of the Extension
Department supervisors acts as its secretary.

A Home for Chess

The Lapham Park Social Center is the head-
quarters of the Milwaukee Municipal Chess As-
sociation. There are on the average of 150 chess
players at Lapham Park every Monday evening
during the league season, which lasts about three
months. The building is Open to chess players
during the entire year, and an attendance of fifty
or more will be found at Lapham Park each M on—
day evening during the other nine months. In
the group are found lawyers, physicians, teachers,
financiers, business men, trades people, and a
psychiatrist. The Association is so enthusiastic
about its chess home that the members have re-
decorated a room in the center, built special chess
tables, donated furniture, and framed chess
pictures for the walls.

\Vhile the Milwaukee Municipal Chess Asso-
ciation caters mainly to adults, much interest in
chess is being aroused among older boys in all of
the table game rooms of the thirteen evening
social centers. In the six afternoon social centers
chess is being taught to children of elementary
school age.

The Milwaukee Public Schools Extension De-

partment has a convic-
tion that to ground an

In 1931, Boris Kos—
tich, one of the Euro-
pean masters, gave a
simultaneous exhibition
in which he won twen-
ty—five games and had
five draws. In Febru-
ary, 1932, Frank Mar-
shall, United States

The May, |93|, issue of The National Graphic Mag-
azine, in an article entitled "Strobeck, Home of
Chess," tells of a medieval village in the Harz
Mountains of Germany where all the inhabitants
play chess. It is taught in the schools and children
carry chess boards as they do their school books.
At the Village Inn a huge entertainment hall is de-
voted to the game, and in the town is an historic
chess tower where the chess champions held their
first contests a half century before William the Con-
querer landed in England.

individual in the game
of chess is to give him
a leisure—time resource
which he will never out-
grow and which will
never grow stale.

 

Other chess playing

cities . might be men-
(Continued on page 30])

"She'll Be Riding Six White Horses
When She Comes"

" HE’LL be riding six white

S horses when she

comes,” lustin sang

the happy group as their feet

moved swiftly and lightly to the rhythm of the
song.

“Just what does this all mean to you i’” I asked
my near middle-aged neighbor as we paused to
watch the players.

“You’ll probably be surprised,” laughed he.
“Two years ago I was so painfully timid that I
even left the house when women relatives came
:0 visit us. Now I enjoy visiting with people. It
beats anything I ever did.”

“Our community was the deadest place you
ever saw before we started our community recre—
ation program,” continued Mr. Lester. “\Vhen
my wife returned from the Recreation Institute
at Plainview about eighteen months ago, she de-
cided to start a recreation club in our community
-—-Liberty. I was elected
president. I was scared so
badly that I grasped the

back of a chair while I

By MYRTLE MURRAY

District ’Home Demonstration Agent
Cooperative Extension Work, Texas

Through all the ages there has grown up in
rural districts an unconscious art expression.

called the meeting to order. I
would turn the meeting over
to Richard. He was vice-
president. Something seemed
to come right up in my throat.

“\Nell, you saw me take the leading part in that
three-act play last night,” he continued. “I had
not taken part in plays since I was eight years
old, until we started our recreation program.
Now I enjoy doing these things, and our com-
munity is a real community.”

“It develops confidence in oneself,” answered
Richard in response to my query. “And I have
about decided that I must go to school again, for
taking part in plays has taught me‘how little I
know. I did not‘ quite finish high school. Now I
want to go to college.”

“Our program always starts with community
singing, using mostly old songs,” said Mrs. Les-
ter. “The plays are started with the Grand
March, using the varia-

tions such as, the Bridge
of Smiles, The Tunnel,
Over and Under, and

 

Courtesy Sleighton Farms, Pennsylvania

200

“SHE’LL BE RIDING SIX lVHITE HORSES lVHEN SHE COMES” 291

others. Then we play relays
with hoops, balls, bean bags,
chairs and bottles, introducing
new ones almost every evening.
These games are followed by
lovely old folk‘ games—Come,
Let Us Be Joyful, Green
Sleeves, Virginia Reel, and
Pop Goes the lVeasel.”

Big, little, old and young, at-
tend these parties. It is not un-
usual to see the grandparents
playing in the same game with their grand chil—
dren. They have taUght the young folks some of
the lovely old singing games which they played
when they were young. Some of them are: Old
loe Clark, Shoot the analo, Little Brown Jng,

The Girl I Left Behind, Captain Jinks, and Hog
Rovers.

Forty men, women, boys and girls attended the
first party. Each time the crowd increased, and
representatives from eleven communities were
attending. The school house was too small to ac—
commodate so many. So the representatives from
the Liberty community went to these eleven
communities and hclped them get started.

The play idea has developed cooperation be-
tween the individuals of the community and be—
tween the communities. When the Liberty com-
munity was ready to start the rural drama work,
a carpenter was employed to lead the job. The
men in the community contributed their work.

“The men will quit this free work before the
job is half done,” prophesied one pessimist.
Each day more men volunteered for work than
was needed. The end of the school building was
knocked out and a twelve foot stage with dress-
ing rooms on each side was built. The desks are
fastened on two by four’s so they can be moved
out of the way for the games. Thus the small
school house of Liberty, which is about 24 by 60,
is a real center for the people who live there.

“Recreation is not simply playing ‘Ring Around
Rosy,’ but includes music, drama, literature and
games that coordinate the senses,” declared Mrs.
S. M. Lester, president of the Floyd County
Recreation Association.

An Adventure in Drama

Through this organization an exchange of
three-act‘ plays was arranged between thirteen
rural communities. Later, at the request of its
members, the Little Theatre was added to this

As a result of institutes conducted
in the state of Texas by some of
the workers of the Notional Rec-
reation Association, many rural
communities in Texas are enjoying
Play Nights and drama. The activ-
ities described by Miss Murray are
being duplicoted in rural communi-
ties in mony states in which the
National Recreation Association is
cooperating with the U. 5 Depart-
ment of Agriculture in conducting
institutes for rural leaders.

group. This arrangement is an
added pleasure in the friendly
relationship already existing
between the rural and city peo—
ple of Floyd County.

Ed Holmes, dramatic director
for the county recreation asso-
ciation, is the father of this
idea. He really startcd it in
1925 when he was elected presi—
dent of the Literary Society in
his home community, Sand Hill.
It occurred to him that' it would be a good idea
to sell season tickets for the plays instead of de-
pending on the usual door receipts. The first
thing the community knew he had tickets printed
and presented his plan. He guaranteed twelve
plays for a season ticket of one dollar. He sold a
season ticket to one family only that night. But
thirteen plays were presented that year with
sixty—three actors taking part. A door fee of
Fifteen and twenty-live cents was charged. Two
hundred dollars worth of tickets were sold that

year.

About that much money has been realized from
the proceeds of these plays each year. The pro-
ceeds are used to pay for school equipment and
for the improvement of the grounds. This club
and the Sand Hill Home Demonstration Club
have bought an electric lighting system, paid for
the stationary seats in the auditorium, and pro-
vided running water and flush toilets.

“The club has put on two plays each year, and
exchanged plays with six other communities until
this year. It is one of the thirteen communities
that are exchanging plays,” said Mr. Holmes.
“The expenses of all actors are defraycd by the
club. These include five cents a mile for the act—
ors in attending rehearsals. The school children
sell the tickets. In this way everyone helps. For
the citizen who buys a ticket helps just as much
as the actor.”

This community also enjoys the old—fashioned
Sunday night singing. A leader is appointed for
each program in order that everyone interested
may learn to conduct community singing.

Each community has its own plan of financing,
and gets the proceeds from each play put on in
that community. The Roselyn community sold a
season ticket for Fifty cents a family.

“\Ve did not want to make money, just wanted
to pay expenses,” said Buster Whitlock. “Dad
bought the lights and books for us. Now, we

A92 “SHE’LL BE RIDING SIX l/VHITE HORSES IVHEN SHE COMES”

have money to pay him back, but he won’t accept
it.” His father is seventy-two years old, but con-
siders any support extended to this work a good
investment for the community.

Another community reports not having had
Sunday School for several years. But since play-
ing together it has a well organized Sunday
School, and church services twice a month.

The Floyd County Recreation Association
meets in Floydada (frequently in the basement
of one of the churches) for the purpose of learn—
ing new plays and games. It is composed of four
representatives—a man, woman, boy and girl—
from each community. These representatives by
communities “take turn about” in conducting the
program. Both plays and dramas have been con-
ducted in nineteen communities.

Fostering Art Expression

it is not sUrprising that the revival of the old-
fashioned play parties, Sunday night singings, and
plays are meeting
with so much popu-
larity in Floyd
County. Through
all the ages there has grown up
in rural communities an uncon-
scious art expressiOn which has
identified the play instinct with
all forms of labor. The Shoe~
makers Dance and the Song of
the Volga Boatman are among
the many folk games and songs
of this kind that could be men—
tioned.

Everyone does not have the op-
portunity of travelling and meet—
ing, face to face, people of other
lands. But through music, songs
and plays an intimate knowledge
of these people may be gained.

Folk games and dances spring from the same
source as other primitive arts and are equally as
valuable as art treasures. The aesthetic impulses
which produced material objects of beauty in
metal, clay, stone and wood, likewise produced
the material for the folk song, dance and story.
If one should be preserved for its cultural value,
certainly the other should. The material arts are
more easily tranSplanted, and so resist mutilation,
whereas the value of the immaterial is intangible
and lends itself to change. And changes are
wrought with the slow changes of'culture. But

Drama helps players and audience alike to for-
get five cent cotton and twenty-five cent wheat!

whatever these changes may be, they are wholly.
consistent with that particular culture and are not
wrought by an attempt to twist the art of one
culture to fit another. Our folk is essentially
European, so naturally we are interested in
European folk games and folk songs. And we
should seek consciously to preserve it intact,
rather than twist it to {it into a mechanical age.
The beauty of this folk art is that it brings to us
the richest of life itself, laying it before our
eager eyes and making us the finer because of it.

The value of the rural drama can scarcely be
overestimated. “Playing a part,” getting out of
one’s self, and being for a time, some one else—
a king, a queen, a Villain, a hero or a Cinderella
——in a mimic world of romance and adventure,
is to many intensely interesting and appealing.
Thus one forgets five cent cotton and twenty-five
cent wheat, and for the time being is carried
away by the illusion of lights, scenery, actors and
music into a world of imagination. The audience,
too, forgets its troubles fol»
lowing Cinderella to the ball,
or in helping Miles Standish
fight the Indians.

 

Creative imagination and work contribute to a
purposeful serenity. Nearly everyone, both young
and old, finds stimulation through a well balanced
recreation program. It makes leisure hours more
creative. It develops constantly new ideas and
new interests. The program may be guided in
such a way that it becomes an educational force,
a cultural medium and a wholesome entertain-
ment resulting in mutual satisfaction and pleasure
to both the actor and the audience.

(Continued on. page 301)

’ A New Deal in Music.

By R. C. ROBINSON

Executive Director

Wayne County Memorial Community Building Association
Goldsboro, North Carolina

IX YEARS AGO the Memorial Community Build-
S ing Association, W'ayne County’s social rec-

reation center, at Goldsboro, N. C., produced
its first community music program. The gather-
ing consisted of no more than a hundred and fifty
people, a large portion of them participants. On
May 19, 1933, the Association sponsored its
twelfth such entertainment with over two thou-
sand in the audience. The difference in the size of
these two groups is a fairly accurate gauge of the
growth of interest in what is locally" termed
“home grown” music.

The program on May 19th consisted of a male
chorus concert with over three hundred men’s
voices from fifteen counties combined under the
direction of a leader who organized and trained
them in five separate choruses. In this group were
farmers, mechanics, bookkeepers, mill workers,
day laborers, lawyers, doctors, school teachers,
judges, merchants—-—men from almost every lo-
cally represented walk of life. The audience was
similarly composed of people from as wide a social

and territorial scope. Critical students of music

declared the concert one of the finest of its kind
they had ever heard; the
humble listeners who judged

favorably that the committee in charge was urged
to make it an annual event and to extend its scope.
Plans are already being worked out to make next
year’s music festival one of the finest events of
its sort ever staged in the south. Not content with
one big effort for a twelve month period, the
committee, made up of business and professional
men and women, a few of them trained musi-
cians but for the most part merely lovers of good
music, aims at a year—round program consisting
of concerts, community sings, operettas and a
song leader’s training course for men and wo-
men who will return to their various communi-
ties and aid in the tremendous awakening in com-
munity music so vividly felt in Eastern Carolina
at this time.

This has not been an Overnight awakening.
During the Great W’ar people of this section
learned to sing together and to enjoy the harmony
of their combined voices, but in the years between
other recreative pursuits, chiefly of the bought
and paid for variety, weened them away from the
simple ways of enjoyment. Then came the de-
pression with its harrassing worries, its unem-

ployment, its curtailed sal—
aries, its bank failures and

music by its emotional ap-
peal were moved to loud
and often repeated praise.

The concert followed a
day devoted to community
music as a part of Gold-
boro’s National Cotton
Week Celebration. In the
morning singing cla s ses
competed fo r a trophy
award; during the after-
noon there was a quartet
contest. The day’s program
impressed local citizens sO

"Perhaps the activities of the schools next
to supervision most frequently attacked as
’fads and frills’ are art and music. Yet never
were the problems of a wise use of leisure
time so acute os at present, and these
problems ore destined to increase in magni-
tude with the inevitoble increose in leisure.
The creation of leisure without a corre-
sponding provision for the resourceful use
of that leisure is filled with dynomite. A
love for good literature, music and art is
our best defence agoinst the misuse of this
increasing leisure. They do add slightly to
the cost of education, but can we safely
eliminate them?"—W. Howard PiHsbury,
Superintendent of Schools, Schenectady, in
journal of Education.

its falling crop prices. With
more leisure time than ever
before and with no money
for paid amusements, the
urge to sing reasserted it-
self as a soul-satisfying an-
tidote against gloom and
hopeless despondency.

How the Renaissance
Came About
About two years ago a
young music student not
long out of college, Pat

(Continued on page 302)
293

 

Courtesy Child Welfare Magazine

L A S T Spring the
Berkeley, California,
Recreation Commis-
sion held its first one
act play contest. Good audiences greeted the play-

ers every night, and an especially flne audience
was at hand to witness the finals. Fourteen dif-
ferent groups participated, and other organiza—
tions which saw the activities this year are laying
plans for a similar event next season. Judging
was on the following basis: Presentation, 50 per
cent; acting, 25 per cent; setting, 15 per cent;
choice of play, 10 per cent.

Recent Drama
Contests

The Milwaukee 1933 social center tournament
in amateur dramatics was held at the Girls’ Trade
and Technical High School, May 15th to 20th,
with the finals on May 25th. Over twenty-five

groups presented plays.

ON May 10th and
A County Casting 11th W’estchester
Tournament County had its first

c a s t i ng tournament

held at Glenwood Lake in Pelham which was put
at the disposal of the Recreation Commission
through the courtesy of the County Park Com-
mission. The events were fly casting for distance,
bait casting for distance, fly casting for accuracy,
and bait casting for accuracy. A platform about
eight feet long and three feet wide was erected,
so arranged that there was as much water back
of the platform as in front. This was necessary
for the fly casting events in particular. The tar
gets used for the accuracy event were three
bicycle tires painted white and anchored in the
water at a proper distance. The meet was held
from 5:00 to 8:00 P. M., casting events being

294

 

held on the first evening, the accuracy events on

the second. An entry fee of 25 cents was charged
each entrant.

T H E Playground
Board of Oak Park,
Illinois, in its annual
report lists as the out-
standing achievement for 1932 the opening of the
James Barrie play center. “This recreation cen-
ter,” states the report, “embodies the results of
eleven years intensive research and eXperimenta-
tion tested out by actual practice. The building,
the plans for which were drawn up by Arthur B.
Maiwurm, is twice as large as the other play shel-
ters and is equipped throughout with the most
modern recreation facilities. From the large wad-
ing pool with its rim of sand and decorative stones
to the play center with its original murals, its
modern stage equipment, its handicraft, cooking
and game rooms, the James Barrie Playground
represents the last word in recreation facilities.”

The formal dedication and presentation of the
playground to the public took place before an
audience of more than 4,000 people. The speak-
ers who took part in the program complimented
the neighborhood on its acquisition of the play
center secured in a period of hnancial uncertainty.
The bond issue for $50,000 providing the neces-
sary funds for land and improvements was ap-
proved by the citizens of the village on April 7,
1931. The property was purchased on September
18th of that year and work on the improvement
of the grounds began on October 10th. Work on
the building was commenced on October 28th.
The improvement of the grounds and the build-
ing were completed on May I, 1932, and the play-
ground was dedicated and opened to the public on
June 10, 1932. (See page 258 for picture.)

 

The Evolution of a
Playground

IVORLD AT PLA Y 295

Music Week in Los Angeles—Music Week
was observed by the Los Angeles, California.
Playground and Recreation Department on a
larger scale than ever before. Community bands
and orchestras, choral societies and instrumental
and vocal solosits contributed their talent to a
number of music festivals arranged in different
sections of the city. At the same time the Recre-
ation Department organized three large civic
choruses during the week. These chorus grOUps
are now meeting on Monday evenings and are re-
hearsing for a city-wide choral festival tentatively
scheduled for the latter part of June in which all
choruses will be combined in one huge song fest.
Similar groups will be formed in other sections
of the city if the demand warrants.

In Augusta, Georgia—Augusta, Georgia, has
completed two new community buildings, mak-
ing a total of ten such buildings operated as com-
munity centers with a director in charge of each.
Two new swimming pools, completed last sum-
mer, had an attendance of 110,000, practically
three times the estimated attendance when the
pools were Opened.

A Folk Dancing Festival—On May 20th the
children of the public and parochial schools of
Cincinnati, Ohio, presented their nineteenth an-
nual May Folk Dancmg Festival at Carson Field,
University of Cincinnati. The festival was pre—
sented under the direction of the Public Recrea-
tion Commission in cooperation with the Cincin—
nati Board of Education and the Board of Edu—
cation of the parochial schools. The pageant of
“Sleeping Beauty” into which the folk dancing
was woven, was followed by the May pole dance.
Preceding the festival a concert was presented by
the Valley Community Orchestra.

Bear Mountain’s Nature Museum—Large in-
creases in buildings, indoor and outdoor exhibits
and in the general edUCational program, will make
the nature trails and trailside museums in the
Bear Mountain section of the Palisades Interstate
Park the most extensive and elaborate of such
institutions in the United States, according to the
Commissioners of the Palisades Interstate Park.
There will be two new buildings this year, one
devoted to a presentation of local geology with
examples of the rocks and minerals found in the
ancient formation of the Hudson Highlands and
the recent glacial period. A second building will

 

NOW ITS PLAYGROUND
REHABILITATION TIME!

WHY not check your equipment needs?

Order now. Take advantage of today’s
most unusual values and BUY before
prices advance.

See a new idea in Camp or Picnic Stoves
at our display at the Hotel Stevens, Chi-
cago during the annual American Institute
of Park Executives. September 17 to 21.

SEND FOR CATALOG NO. I3
Address Division R

 

HILL-STANDARD CORPORATION

ANDERSON, IND.

be used as a work shop for the staff where
devices for the display of natural history subjects
will be manufactured for the education of nature
teachers and counselors who flock to the museum.
Increase in the building equipment and improve-
ments in trails, landscaping, plantings, water 811p—
ply and other features, have been made possible
by the use of men from the unemployment relief
rolls in New York City and Orange County.

Recreation in Ontario—At City Hall park in
Ontario, California, there is a splendid layout of
eleven horseshoe courts, a small club house and
several tables in the open where men can play
cards, checkers and similar games. One of the
facilities p0pular with the children of the com-
munity is the so-called spray wagon, a water
sprinkling system carried from one part of the
city to another during the hot weather so that the
children may have showers. It started when it
was found that in the Mexican district it was not
possible to keep a spray on a city hydrant so the
water sprinkling system in use was introduced.
It worked so well in that area that it is being used
in other parts of the city.

Service Activities—Various groups of junior
and intermediate girls attending the classes pro—
vided by the Detroit, Michigan, Department of
Recreation have enjoyed many recreational activi—
ties. They have, in addition, carried on several
pieces of service work, such as making 620 scrap
books for presentation during the holiday season
to children in hospitals and orphanages, the dress—
ing of 167 dolls, and the distribution to needy
families of 171 Christmas baskets. Four hundred
and twenty-two articles of clothing have been

made for the American Red Cross Service
Bureau.

296 WORLD AT PLAY

Two Oakland Groups Combine—The Indus-
trial Athletic Association, sponsored by the Rec-
reation Department of Oakland, California, has
extended its membership to the Municipal Civil
Service Employees Association which is made up
of over a thousand employees representative of
every department of the state. These various de-
partments will enter the men’s and women’s rec-
reation activities planned by the Industrial Ath-
letic Association. This is the first time city em-
ployees have entered into athletic activities such
as are organized by the Industrial Association.
Among the first groups to enter the program were
the playground supervisors of the Recreation De-
partment who organized their own teams and en-
tered the basketball and playground baseball
leagues. Recently the association amended its
constitution in order to accept as members trade
and commercial schools. Heretofore only indus-
trial and mercantile establishments have belonged

to the association.

Danbury’s Playground—The Lions Club of
Danbury, Connecticut, is developing a play-
ground project which is assuming large propor-
tions. The work began in 1930 with the con-
struction of a large concrete swimming and wad-
ing pool. In 1931 the playground proper was
laid out by fencing in a flat area of nearly two
acres, constructing two bath houses one for boys,
the other for girls, and erecting a slide, a set of
swings and three see—saws. In 1932 a playground
director was introduced with excellent results.
Each day the playground attracted between 300
and 500 boys and girls who played on the ground
from ten in the morning until dusk.

Last year the Lions Club added additional
equipment and two water bubblers. This year it
is hoping to put in more equipment if financial
conditions permit.

A Conference on Childhood and Youth—On
May 19th and 20th under the auspices of the
Children’s Division of the Council of Social
Agencies, Buffalo, New York, held a conference
on Childhood and Youth—the fourth of a series
of two day conferencessponsored by the friends
of children in \Vestern New York. The purpose
was first, to portray the services now being ren-
dered by the six great forces of the home, religion,
recreation, education, health programs, and the
protection of children; second, to discuss the
present deficiency as viewed by leaders in each

field and to secure from these groups an expres-
sion of opinion on what is needed from other
groups to bring about greater unification of ef-
forts. One evening session was devoted to recre-
ation and included an active demonstration of
arts and crafts and a meeting at which speakers
discussed the value of recreation in the life of
the child and present needs.

Music Week in Jacksonville—“Music’s Con-
tribution to Humanity” was the theme of the
Music Week celebration in Jacksonville, Florida.
Music in war, in peace, romance, religion, every
day work and recreation—these were the themes
beautifully expressed through a pageant rather
than the usual program of concerts and recitals.
The celebration was a civic undertaking organized
for the fourth year under the leadership of the
Department of Public Recreation. It was held in
the municipal auditorium and lasted only one and
three-quarter hours —-“a record for pageants,”
writes Nathan L. Mallison, Superintendent of
Recreation.

Hiking In Louisville—“Gray world of win-
ter and green summer hills called 2,030 hikers on
58 trips along pioneer Kentucky trails,” states the
1932 report of the Division of Recreation, Louis-
ville, Kentucky. “Oldest residents and newest
schools and churches of nearby counties welcome
the hikers now as good friends, and Saturday
night suppers and game parties for hikers and
home folks follow each jaunt.”

Fees For Tennis Courts—The Park Board of
Alexandria, Minnesota, has adopted a new system
of charging for the use of tennis courts at Me-
morial Park. Last year the charges were made
for the use of the lights for night playing. This
year a charge of 10 cents per hour per person,
except for children under fifteen, is in effect dur-
ing the day. For night playing all are charged at
regular rates. Season tickets are available at $3.00.

Blochman City—_Blochman City in California
is a township founded, built, owned and governed
by the students of the Blochman school district.
Work on the project was begun in 1931 when
four eighth grade boys surveyed the land donated
by the Palmer Stendel Oil Corporation. Twenty—
four lots, 16% feet by 25 feet, and six streets 16
feet wide were the result of their labor. Ten
buildings, 10 by 12 feet, have been erected. Lum—

WORLD AT PLAY 297

her for these buildings was hauled from abandon-
ed school houses by an oil company. Additional
lumber was purchased. A prominent contractor
directed the boys’ labor on the buildings for one
day. The boys then decided they were capable of
finishing the work. All work was done outside
of school hours and took the greater part of I93I-
I932 to finish.

Toy money earned by doing various school jobs
is used by the students. A store equipped by
firms for advertising purposes sells merchandise;
a bank supplied with the necessary equipment by
a Santa Maria Bank, carries on all business trans-
actions. There are a post office with combination
lock boxes, a florist shop, a printing office and a
health center where injuries are treated. The city
lots are sold through a real estate office.

Where Tulips Abound—The craze for the
tulip, according to the Detroit Press, began in the
Netherlands in I59I and reached its highest point
in I637. During this period, when only two bulbs
of the September Augustus were to be had, one
was purchased for 4,000 florins, a new carriage,
two horses and a complete set of harness, while
the other was sold for twelve acres of land.

This love of tulips, less extravagantly mani-
fested, has for the past three years been demon-
strated in the City of Holland, Michigan, through
its annual tulip festival. Ninety-four per cent of
Holland’s population is of true Holland stock of
the Old \Vorld and has for years planted its
native flower to adorn homes and gardens. While
the tulip festival includes no carnival feature, the
week is set aside for such activities as musical en—
tertainments, concerts and pageants. The festival
was held this year from May 13th to May 21st.
It was ushered in with the annual scrubbing of
Eighth Street by men and maids in costumes and
was climaxed on May 20th with a musical con—
test. This year there will be a new feature in a
nature and conservation exhibit.

In Wilkes Barre—One of the workers on the
staff of the Playground and Recreation Associa-
tion of \Vyoming Valley is devoting his time to
organizing baseball. In May twenty-five leagues
had been organized, each with ten teams. Twenty—
five hundred boys in Wilkes Barre and through-
out Wyoming Valley are playing ball in every
spare moment. Soft ball is increasing in interest
with the older age groups and there are many
leagues in this sport.

 

At last - 

in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

       
     
 

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
N0. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber section are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension
clevises are re-

versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

R e-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

 

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach

and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

298 FIND YOUR LEADER AND TRAIN HIM!

 

How to Produce a Play

0 Often it falls to the lot of one with
little technical experience to direct a
school, club or community play.

'0 The purpose of a handbook just
issued by the National Recreation
Association is to make this task
easier and the results more certain.
“Play Production Made Easy” by
Mabel Foote Hobbs makes available
a method of production tried and
proved over and over again. It of-
fers suggestions on scenery, lighting,
costuming and make-up, and con-
tains a number of pantomimes, skits
and very short plays.

Price $.50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

Community Center Programs in Little Rock
-——The Parent-Teacher Association of the East
Side Junior High School at Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, with the assistance of the Recreation Com-
mission, last winter sponsored a community cen-
ter at the school building. Each Friday night a
general program was given, the first part being
held in the auditorium with volunteer entertain-
ers from local radio stations, Parent—Teacher As—
sociation groups, the firemen’s band and other
local talent. Following this, play leaders con-
ducted active games in the gymnasium, and table
games, such as ping pong, card games and check-
ers, were played. In addition, a gymnasium class
was held twice a week which was so popular that
it was necessary to limit the enrollment. At that
conclusion of the class a group of women formed
basketball teams and conducted basketball leagues.

Credit Line Corrected—The picture appearing
on page 230 of the August issue of RECREATION
should have been credited to New Jersey Depart-
ment of Conservation and Development and New
Jersey M unici pah’ties.

 

Fancy and Trick ROping a Play-ground Ac-
tivity—Children of the Forth \Vorth, Texas,
playgrounds are very much interested in classes
in fancy and trick rOping recently organized.
Chester Beyers, world’s champion trick roper, is
volunteering his services as instructor of the
classes.

Find'Your Leader and Train Him!

(Continued from page 268)

initiative, fail to cooperate thoroughly, or when
they fail to do the right thing at the right time,
then we should remember that even trained adults
do these exact things and make the same errors
once in a while. Sometimes children are so much
like adults that we become impatient with what
we call their stupiditj, when, as a matter of fact,
we are the stupid ones. We must all learn by both
our successes and our failures. If a project fails,
make sure that those who consciously or uncon-
sciously caused this failure realize their errors.
Never let an opportunity to learn pass. One, and
probably the most effective way to take advantage
of successes and failures, is to hold periodic
round-tables so to speak, at which juniors and
seniors discuss both past and coming events. In
this type of training, we have much to learn from
some of our national boy and girl organizations
that put great stress upon boy and girl leadership
training. For example, in the Boy Scout weekly
troop staff meetings, and in the similar Girl Scout
weekly Courts of Honor, the finest kind of lead-

e‘rship is developed.

In Conclusion. The value that may accrue to
you from having read the foregoing more or less
theoretical considerations will depend not upon
the extent to which you understand them, but
rather Upon what you do about them. In conclu-
sion leadership briefs of a practical nature are
presented as follows:

Provide opportunity for boys and girls to lead,
for the only way anyone can learn a thing is by
practicing that thing.

Make sure that leaders are glad when they suc-
ceed and sorry when they fail.

To get junior leaders to act and think as you
would have them act and think, lead them your-
self just enough to set the pattern and after that
let the juniors lead under your wise guidance, but
do not take the leadership away from them when
they fail.

AVOCATIONAL EDUCATION

.Work with and through juniors, and. let them
help you do yOUr thinking, planning, executing,
and judging.

Through junior leaders secure the cooperative
efforts of all to determine what they can do and
how they think they can do it, and how they would
like to do it.

Train leaders positively, emphasizing “Do”
instead of “Don’t.”

Avocational Education
(Continued from page 272)

The avocational recreations group themselves
in general within the field of the physical sports,
the arts (including music, drama, and the graphic
arts), the handcrafts and the out-of-door inter-
ests, which include nature study, hiking and
camping. The physical sports provide needed re-
laxation and exercise. But it is through the rec-
reations which afford an outlet for the creative
abilities defeated by the machine age that avoca-
tions can contribute most toward solving the
problem of our growing leisure.

Interest in reading, study and discussion -——
avocations in themselves ——may grow out of
nearly every other avocational interest that is
given intelligent leadership. Books on art, music,
drama, natural science, find enlarging audiences
as men and women gain first-hand practice in
these avocations at schools and recreation centers.
Comradeship is fostered through study groups
and discussion circles who have a common hobby.

Appreciation of the arts, as well as actual prac-
tice in them, is an avocational interest which will
help to build a new culture. The Graphic Sketch
Club, unusual experiment sponsored in Philadel-
phia by Mr. Samuel Fleisher, illustrates the joy
and creative achievement that men and women in
many professions may find in art as an avocation.
Business men turn to art as recreation in several
cities where business men’s art clubs flourish.

Amateur music and drama have felt no slump
during the depression. On the contrary, people
have been turning to -them increasingly to gain
courage and emotional relief. When a person is
taken outside of his daily routine thrOUgh per-
forming in a play; when he sheds his individual
worries to throw himself whole—heartedly into the
performance of a chorus or orchestra, or wheri he
catches a quick sympathy with another time and
another nationality through enjoyment of a folk

299

 

 

Bright

  

Clean

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at ploy is the oim
of the modern playground. How im-
portont to protect them from the don-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application ofSolvoy Floke Calcium
Chloride on grovel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisonce. And
Solvoy Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrogrophs pictured here
show you the results. 347cultures in the
untreoted dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

   

Before treatment After treatm ent

Make this 0 dustless outdoor season

on your playgrounds. Send today for

full information and booklet No. “59.
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

a g... Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufac.
k ,/ tured by The Salvay Process Company

 

CH

 

6] Broadway New York

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

CALCIUM
momma

FLAKE— 77%-so%

 

 

SUNSHINE
FRESH AIR

S 0 LVAY

 

300 GEETING THE VALUES OUT OF THE SCHOOL SOCIAL

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

Official pitching horseshoes and accessories are
a necessity on every playground. Here is a
game everyone can play and enioy. Easily in-
stalled and maintained. The Diamond line in-
cludes everything from booklets of explanation
and rules to several models of official pitching
shoes. Score padsl percentage char’rsl carrying
cases. steel stakes and stake holders and official
courts ready to set up—indoors or out.

 

Write for catalog

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 GRAND AVENUE. DULUTH. MINN.

 

 

song—then the arts of drama and music have lent
him forgetfulness and refreshment of Spirit, as
well as eXpression of his inmost powers and ca-
pacities. More and more communities lately have
been mobilizing their resources for music and for
drama to provide opportunities for both the un-
employed and the employed to participate in or
serve as audiences for frequent performances.
Such activities preserve mental health.

Realizing that nature lovers cannot be made
just by the study of books, cities have been en-
larging their laboratories for the pursuit of nature
study avocations. Chief among these workshops
are the many acres in county parks and the large
outlying municipal reservations which have been
acquired during the last few years. Generous
space for hiking, trail-making, sports, and camp-
ing under city auspices has helped to start an
army of young people on their way toward a per-
manent enthusiasm for the out—of-doors. In
many such parks the woodland trails have been
left in their natural state, and excursions over
them are conducted by nature guides.

The time is ripe for adult education along
avocational lines, not only as a morale builder in

depression, but as a permanent growth. Today
we have a more serious-minded public who seek
the truth and have had time—sometimes too
much time—to think things out. The assurance
that “big money” brought success and happiness.
which dominated America during the inflated
twenties, has proved hollow. In the period just
ended, money came easily and was spent easily
on amusements that failed to satisfy. Leisure
continued the mad rush for acquiring possessions,
for keeping on the move. It remained for the de-
pression to give us a clearer point of view. We
are beginning now to look beyond the develop-
ment of material resources to the deveIOpment of
human powers and fundamental human needs.

Getting the Values Out of the
School Social

( C ontimced from page 275)

for definite features and parts, gave them occu-
pation for leisure moments and prevented prob-
lems of discipline.

They should provide a means of sublimating
the sex impulse through social dancing. This is a
value that was rated high by some of our leading
writers in the field of extra-curricular activities.
But the composite view of 1,753 people placed it
next to the lowest value. Where the social dance
has been permitted as a feature of the social eve-
ning, in 60 per cent of the schools it has almost,
if not completely, monopolized the social evening,
thus robbing pupils of the more worth while
values. The writer agrees that school parties with
their varied stunts, charades, folk dances, musical
and dramatic features have a tendency to subli-
mate the sex impulse, but the weight of testimony
does not uphold this opinion where the modern
dance is concerned.

They should satisfy papils’ interest in initia-
tions and the love of signs and mystery. Dr. Fret-
well feels that the high school secret organization
is the direct result of boy nature and teacher
neglect. Initiation and mental telepathy stunts
may be introduced into the social evenings that
will satisfy this interest and desire and prevent
the formation of secret organizations.

If the pupils are to realize these values from
the social evenings the sponsor must have the fol-
lowing qualifications: A love for youth; confi-
dence in youth; an attractive personality; a
knowledge of adolescent psychology, and expert
knowledge of the activity to be managed. He
must be completely sympathetic with the idea;

A SUMMER ACTIVITY PROGRAM FOR JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 301

must see the relation between the CUrricular and
extracurricular ; must know how to hold himself
in the background and give suggestions indirectly;
must be familiar with the material in the field, and
must be able to win over parents to a firm belief
in the value of what he is doing.

A Summer Activity Program
For Junior High Schools

(Continued from page 277)

contests and exhibits and for highest number of
points made, took part on the program. Awards
were made at these assemblies. Close upon this
followed a special edition of the school paper
carrying the winning essays, lists of winners in
all events, and more precious 'than all else,
pictures!

The success of the program as a whole in this
school may be gathered from the fact that in the
second year there were approximately twice as
many winners, with many more articles for ex-—
hibit, than in the first year.

Helpful Factors

In conclusion, several matters may be men-
tioned. It has been the policy in the giving of
awards to place emphasis upon the activity rather
than upon the award itself. .Therefore the but-
tons and ribbons denoting winners have been as
satisfactory as they have been inexpensive. The
entire program has“ been conducted without cost
to pupil and parent, and with practically no ex-
pense to the school. The Carnegie Library has
cooperated throughout all its branches by prepar-
ing and making available reading lists, as well as
distributing activities lists and record sheets.

Two other agencies available have not been
fully utilized. Firms in the city in the fall have
given exhibits of materials of a similar nature.
Further interest and publicity can be had by par-
ticipating as a school in such exhibits locally. In
the last place the radio will be of great value
when used a few times during the summer to
keep alive the child’s interest in this program.

Chess Tournaments in Milwaukee
(Continued from page 289) '
tioned. The social centers of Detroit, Michigan,

for example, have found chess a popular game,
and the Department of Public Playgrounds and

Recreation of Reading, Pennsylvania, has con-
ducted a number of tournaments. In the latter
city the playing was done in the library of the
Tyson-Schoener recreation center, the players
bringing their own sets and boards. Awards were

made in the form of gold, silver and bronze
medals.

uShe’ll Be Riding Six White Horses
When She Comes”

(Continued from page 292)

Whether there be good crops or poor crops,
good prices or low prices, the child of the tenant
farmer as well as the child of the landlord is
yearning for a fuller life, goes where life is at its
fullest. We all desire life, and that we might have
it more abundantly. One of the big problems of
the present day is how to enable the country man
and his family, without journeying, to satisfy his '
economic, social and spiritual needs. Social isola-
tion brings stagnation. It results in the decay of
all that is best in the soul of man.

The most interesting part of a farm is its peo-
ple. Soul fertility is quite as important as soil

Read This Letter

“When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book —-
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens

of times already. It is, indeed, the
Pool Bible.

"(Signed)

“CAPT. Enw. H. MCCIMHON.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Gien Echo,
Capt. McCrabon was for seven years manager of
Spa M unicipai P00! and Beach, St. Petersburg, Fla.

gSend for a Copy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS, SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hottman-Harris, Inc.
:14 E. 32nd STREET NEW YORK CITY

302 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 
  

MAGAZINES

The Parents' Magazine, July, 1933.

Everyone” Needs to Play, an editorial by Howard S.

Braucher.
A Vacation Schedule of Play and Rest, by Ethel

Shreflier Heebink.
New Facts About Movies and Children, by James

Ro rty.

New Jersey Municipalities, June, 1933.
Playtime in Trenton, by George W. Page.
Parks and Playgrounds, edited by F. S. Mathewson.

The Survey, June Midmonthly, 1933.
An Emergency Message to Community Leaders, by
Arnold Bennett Hall and Harold S. Buttenheim.

The Farmer’s Wife, July, 1933.
Rural Youth “Uprises,” by Carroll P. Streeter.

Hygeia, July, 1933.

Safe Swims for Campers, by Phyllis Jackson.
Training for Athletics and Health, by Alfred E.

Parker.

Swimming Pool World, June, 1933.

The Swimming Badge Tests.
The Need for Municipal Pools.

Parks and Recreation. June, 1933.

A Memorial Park Giving Recreation Service, by

Perk Whitman.
Indoor Games.

PAM PH LETS

Twenty-third Annual Report of the Boy Scouts of
America, 1932.

Committee on Health of the New York Principals Asso-

ciation.
Follow-up of the \Vhite House Conference on Child

Health and Protection.

A National Plan for American Forestry. _
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,

Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

Annual Report Westchester County, New York, Recre-
ation Commission, 1932.

Annual Report of the Recreation Commission of Long
Beach, California, 1932.

Charlotte, N. C.—Report of Park and Recreation Com-
mission for March, April and May, 1933.

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners, Fort
Wayne, Ind., 1932.

National Playing Fields Association Annual Report,
1932-33.

 

 

fertility. Indeed the one may be dependent upon,

the other. “Life’s attitudes” are often determined
by material things. It is to be devoutly hoped that
mental, spiritual and cultural growth will come
riding in with prosperity on the fabled Six White
Horses. There are some who think mental, spirit-
ual and cultural growth may even come first, and

 
   

in coming draw “Miss Prosperity" with her.
“Where the best men and women are, the great
city stands,” said Walt Whitman.

A New Deal in Music

(Continued from page 293)

Alderman, by name, began traveling over this sec-
tion preaching the gospel of song. He was some:
thing of an evangelist as well as a spirited song
leader. In his native town of Dunn, North Caro-
lina, he had started a series of community sings
under the sponsorship of the local Rotary Club.
Their instant popularity had made them a per-
manent recreational feature in that community.
Other communities caught the spirit. Eventually
Mr. Alderman .came to Goldsboro and met the
director of the Memorial Community Building.
The first community sing at the building drew a
packed auditorium with hundreds turned away.
A male chorus was organized. A month or two
later choruses of male voices from three com-
munities were thrown together in a Sunday after-
noon concert at the local theatre and standing
room was at a premium long before the curtain
was raised for the first number. The street was
crowded with people unable to get even as far as
the doors of the theatre.

Out of this Sunday afternOOn concert grew the
idea of a mammoth male chorus concert with the
finest men’s voices in fifteen counties combined
and trained by the same leader. A committee was
organized to promote the program. Money was
raised for the venture and a huge tobacco ware-
house secured as an auditorium. Here benches
and a grandstand for the singers were erected.
The results of the concert more than justified the
hopes of the director and those who aided in its
promotion, but they agreed that it was only a
sample of what can be done with music as a com-
munity recreative force.

Next year, the colored people will have their
opportunity. Plans for a mammoth negro concert
for April are rapidly being completed. The serv-
ices of George Johnson of the National Recrea—
tion Association are being sought, and through
him it is hoped that an organization for the pro-
motion of music among the colored people will be

perfected.
Eastern North Carolina is arranging for a

“new deal” all its own, and this new deal will be
a spiritual revival expressed through a medium
as old as life itself. The peOple of Eastern North

Carolina are learning to sing again.

New Books on Recreation

Intramural and Interscholastic Athletics

By P. Roy Brammell. Bulletin, 1932, No. l7. Office of
Education. U. S. Department of the Interior. Govern-

ment Printing Ofiice, Washington .$.10.

HIS BULLETIN reports the findings of a study made by.

the government at the request of the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary ,Schools. The
material published is based on replies received from 327
schools. Many facts are presented of keen interest to
educational and recreational ofiicials, physical directors,
teachers and all others conducting athletic activities. In
summarizing Mr. P. Roy Brammell says: “When the
complete data for intramural and interscholastic athletics
presented in this report are scanned in the large, one has
the feeling that the general program of intramural sports
is in the process of establishment, whileithe program of
interscholastic.athletics is in the process of adjustment.
Both are Ibeing appraised in the light of educational out-
comes and. rightly selected and administered. both are
felt to contain certain definite educational values. The
schools in this study which seem to be setting the pace
in this field are headed definitely in the direction of
dovetailing these activitiesand' making both of them
parts of a larger program which includes not only them,
but also the health work in the schools and the work
in physical education.”

Our Movie Made Children

By Henry James Forman. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.50.

IN PREPARING this book. which is designed to show the
effects, both good and bad, of random movie going
upon the health, conduct and morals of the spectators,
especially young people, Mr. Forman has used the find-
ings of a number of studies. These studies were under-
taken by the Payne Fund at the instance of the Motion
Picture Research Council which was headed by Dr. John
Grier Hi'bben. The group of scientists, psychologists,
sociologists and educators who did the research work
were specially selected for the task. In his summary
Mr. Forman says: “At their best motion pictures carry
a high potential of value and quality in entertainment,
in instruction, in desirable effects upon mental attitudes
and ideals, second, perhaps, to no medium now known
to us. That at their worst they carry the opposite possi-
bilities follows as a natural corollary.”

Dancing in the Elementary Schools

By the Committee on Dancing of the American Physical
Education Association—l93l-32. A. S. Barnes & Com-
pany, New York. $1.00.

THE FIRST Committee on Dancing appointed by the

American Physical Education Association, in study-
ing significant problems on the elementary school level,
attacked such questions as: What can actually be ac-

complished with children at various age levels? What
materials should be included in our rhythmic program?
How could these materials be presented to achieve the
best results? With the formation of the Section on
Dancing of the A. P. E. A., a second committee made
fresh contributions to this pioneer work. The material
presented in this book has been selected from the reports
of these two committees which have undertaken to dis-
cuss the theory of the dance and the principles underly-
ing the productive teaching of dancing. Mary P. O’Don-
nell, Chairman of the 1932 Committee, points out in her
preface that there must be a great deal of scientific ex-

perimentation before any truly authoritative pronounce-
ments can be made.

Soccer for Junior and Senior

High Schools

By John Edgar Caswell, M.A. A. S. Barnes & Company,
New York. $2.00.

N AN INTRODUCTORY statement tracing the deve10pment

of football, the author states that this ancient game
may be traced back to Greek and Roman civilization.
“Historians say that football of which it (soccer) is a
variant, entered England with the Romans, but Irish anti-
quarians insist that kicking games were popular there
(in Ireland) 1,000 years before a single Roman crossed
the Channel.”

Soccer has again come into high favor and in some of
the larger cities it is taking the place of football in the
junior high school. Because of the growing popularity
of soccer, Mr. Caswell’s book, with its detailed instruc-
tions for playing and suggestions on technique, is timely.

_ Indoor and Community Games
By Sid. G. Hedges. J. B. Lippincott Company, Phila-
delphla. $1.50.
ACOLLECTION of games and stunts for use at social
evenings and parties for old and young. Games of

all kinds are described from quiet activities and ice-
breakers to races and team games.

Juvenile Delinquency

By Walter C. Reckless and Mapheus Smith. McGraw-
Hill Book Company, New York. $3.50.

AT A TIME when studies of juvenile delinquency are

taking precedence over investigations of adult crime,
a book which presents findings both of facts and case
material from the modern viewpoint of the juvenile de-
linquent as a problem child rather than as a special type,
has much of interest to offer. The authors have taken
many of the “pet” theories regarding the causes and the
cures for delinquency and have checked them against
available facts to determine how far they are applicable.
The difh'culties involved in determining scientifically the

303

304 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

effect of playgrounds on delinquency are pointed out and

some of the studies which have been made are discussed.
Throughout the authors urge that the student, the prac-
tical worker and the educated layman understand the
principle of multiple causation, that they be able tO an-
alyze the causes in individual cases and that they equip
themselves to interpret the information on juvenile de-
linquents which is presented to them through surveys

and studies.

Illustrated Tap Rhythms and Routines.

By Edith Ballwebber. Clayton F. Summy Co., New
York. $2.50.

A number of artists have collaborated in the produc-
tion of this attractive and practical book. Ellen Edwards
Boyd, Helen McAdow and Ray D. Vane are responsible
for the music. The illustrations are by Harriet Ann
Trinkle. Jay B. Nash, Professor of Education, New
York University, in his introduction states: “The con-
tents of this book are arranged in short routines and
hour blocks, so that the material is very usable, not only
in public school and the college situations, but in the rec-
reational programs of our community centers.” Direc-
tions are clear and concise, and the many illustrations
make the instructions readily usable.

Twice 55 Part Songs For High School Boys
—The Check Book.

Compiled and edited by Peter W'. Dykema. C. C.
Birchard & Company, Boston, Mass. $1.25.

This, the seventh book in the “Twice 55’ series, is in-
tended primarily for senior high school glee clubs. While
the 'book offers a wide range Of interest and several de-
grees of difficulty, a distinguishing characteristic is the
comfortable range of the songs. The subjects have been
chosen because Of their suitability for high school boys
and comprise a great variety Of moods from grave to
gay. Special attention is called to the sacred songs which
include some fine examples Of the choral form.

A Call to the Teachers of the Nation.

By the Committee of the Progressive Education As-
sociation on Social and Economic Problems. The

John Day Company, New York. $.25.

In the foreword Willard W. Beatty, President Of the
Progressive Education Association, states that the group
which prepared this report is one whose primary pur-
pose is tO furnish to members of the association materials
and Opportunities that will promote individual and group
thought along lines of their growth and improvement.
The pamphlet is a challenge to teachers tO play a posi-
tive and creative role in building a better social order.
It suggests a list Of books which discuss authoritatively
many social, economic and political problems.

From Plan to Reality

Regional Plan Association, Inc., 400 Madison Ave-
nue, New York. $2.00.

The Regional Plan Association, Inc. has just issued a
volume entitled From Plan to Reality, a report Of four
years of progress since the announcement of the Regional
Plan. The report shows real progress in the adOption Of
the principles of the Regional Plan. Indeed, “It may now
be conservatively stated that progress tO date is such
that, if it continues at the same rate, the whole Of the
proposals of the plan for physical improvements will
have been carried out before the forty years have
elapsed.”

I_nothe field of physical improvements, the greatest
activity has taken place in the field of highways and
parks, although other prOposals, too, have made sub-
stantial progress. The survey of park facilities in the
region, made in 1921, showed a total of 52,486 acres.
In 1928 when the graphic plan was completed these had
Increased to 94,534. During the four years tO December
31, 1932, about 22,000 acres of park land had been added,

an increase representing about 8 per cent of the tOtal
recommended park acquisition to be made in the whole
area during the following forty years. In New York
City an acquisition of 2,440 acres has been made, repre-
senting an increase of nearly 20 per cent.

Perhaps even more important than the physical de-
veIOpments in accordance with the plan has been the ac-
ceptance by the public at large and especially by public
authorities of the principles of planning. Planning laws
by cities, counties and states have been enacted since 1920.
Official planning boards have increased in the counties
from 2 to 8 and local planning boards from 61 to 109.
Eleven county planning citizens’ councils and 257 local
planning councils have been established.

The volume also presents a number Of projects re-
ported as urgent. Among these are many suggestions for
park acquisition in the region.

Around America With the Indian

By Nina B. Lamkin and M. Jagendorf. Samuel
French, New York. $1.50.

A book Of authentic Indian legends interwoven into
plays, dances, ceremonials, music and stories of Indian
life, this volume cannot fail tO have a wide field of use-
fulness at camps, playgrounds, schools, clubs and other
agencies. A valuable section is the original Indian music
for the plays harmonized by Anne Church Collins.

Citizens' Organizations and the Civic Training of Youth

By Bessie Louise Pierce. Charles Scribner’s Sons,
New York. $2.00.

This study of organizations represents Part III Of the
Report Of the Commission on the Social Studies, Ameri-
can Historical Association. The particular study present-
ed by Miss Pierce has been undertaken because of the
present day interest in many citizens’ groups in civic in-
struction in the schools. Attention has been directed
chiefly to patriotic, military, peace, religious, business,
political and fraternal groups as they affect instruction
in the common schools of America.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, Tresident

OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
OHN G. WINAN'r, Second Vice-President
OBER'I‘ GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W'. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWOR'I‘H, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
_HENRY L. CORns'r'r Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHHER, Jacksonville Fla.
F. TRUREE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L.  N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange,  J.
OHN H. FINLEY New York, N. Y.
UGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARRNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield,  J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRs. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
£OSEPH LEE Boston, Mass.
DWARD E. towns, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
O'r'ro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERICK S. TITSWOR'I‘H, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWOR'rH, {(R" Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. .
REDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
OHN G. WINAN'r, Concord, N. H.
RS. WILLIAH H. WOODIN, JR., Plainiield, N. J.

