Going Spiritually Stole

HEN THERE is no work, what can be done to keep people “living”?

How can unemployed families be kept from going spiritually

stale? In the best of times when resources are normal the best of

men must hght themselves to keep from going stale. “We take on new

interests—we stay away from the things that have a disintegrating effect

on us, we put in their places those things which bring inner harmony and

peace and strength. It is hard enough to do in this changing world of to-

day even if you have work and suflicient hnancial margin. But what a

Herculean task it is when you are minus these two essentials"—-— writes
Clare M. Tousley in behalf of her clients, the unemployed.

“It is fearfully important to help unemployed men and women to
keep active—physically, intellectually. No one wants to see people who
are receiving relief, passive, inert recipients having lost that most pre—
cious of assets——their personal integrity, their spirit.”

Families fret with all family traditionsoverturned, with the man
about the house all the day every day. The man feels he has lost stand-
ing with his children, with his neighbors. Yet there is much that the
father can do for his children if in this period there can be built up a
neighborhood tradition of “whole family recreation.” Recreation work—
ers have a special challenge now to take the lead in helping to train fath-
ers in recreation leadership with the family.

Many unemployed have during this emergency been given special
training in leadership at recreation institutes. Many unemployed men of
special ability after such training are helping to enlarge neighborhood
recreation opportunities. Great is the service of the recreation executives
who discover opportunities for unemployed men, and women, too, to
use their enforced leisure in ways that beneht the community. Activity
is necessary to self-respecting living whether or no there be employment.

It is for recreation leaders to help unemployed men and women
have a heart for the activities they have always longed for but never had
suflicient time for.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

 

October, |933

 

. ‘305

Autumn Days in the Mountains

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation C ommfssion

Camp Mather, maintained by the Rec- rolling mountoin meadows -at~‘an» altia
reation Commission of Son Francisco tude of 4500 Feet on the rim of the
and made possible by the cooperotion Tuolumne. Climotic conditions are such
of the U. S. Forest Service, is loca- that the season may open early in June
ted among cool evergreen Forests and and extend into the Autumn.

"fl-t,

Contributions of Recreation to the Development

of Wholesome Personality

HE ADVENT of the new era so
T confidently predicted by stu-

dents of social change will
bring us an accentuated problem
of the use of leisure time. It seems entirely likely
that the emphasis in education will shift largely
from preparation for vocation to preparation for
recreation, and with the shift in emphasis from
work to leisure we may expect a new interpreta-
tion of recreation.

Heretofore recreation has often been regarded
as the type of leisure time activity which renewed
the energies of the worker, depleted by his daily
task. The strong probability is that the use of
automatic and semi-automatic machinery, the rou-
tinization of vocational activity, and the shorten-
ing of the working week will mean that workers
will no longer be so fatigued at the end of the
work day that they will crave the type of recrea-
tions which give escape from drab reality. In so
far as machinery and organization continue to
remove the drudgery of brute labor, to that ex-
tent will working people approach their free hours
with a sense of expectancy and zest for activity
as distinguished from mere amusement.

The absence of fatigue may be the crucial fac-
tor which will change the expectancies and readi-
nesses of people for recreational activities. Stuart
Chase’s part truth that Americans are a race of
people who take their recreations sitting down
should prove even less true in the new era than is
now the case. It seems likely that people who
now can be satisfied in their few free hours with
the saccharine sentiment of stage, screen or story,
or with attendance upon athletic spectacles, or
with oft-repeated sessions around the bridge table,
will experience the need for types of recreation
which can utilize long hours
of leisure.

Challenging Activities Vital

The first contribution, then,
of recreation toward the de-
velopment of wholesome per—-

By HENRY M. BUSCI—I
Cleveland, Ohio

Mr. Busch, who is Professor of Adult
Education at the Cleveland College
of \Vestern Reserve University, gave
this address before the Division of
Mental Hygiene and Recreation, Na-
tional Conference of Social Work,
meeting at Detroit, Mich,, June, 1933.

sonality in the coming era is the
supplying of challenging activities
which, as they are carried on, de-
velop ever-moving goals. Recrea-
tion so conceived as personal growth in skill,
power, and appreciation becomes synonomous
with education.

But the realization of this high goal for recea-
tion will depend in large measure upon the fur-
nishing of trained leaders of generous outlook and
adequate training, and this will hardly be achieved
unless the public, taxpayers and contributors, be
educated to see in recreation not a pleasant but
trifling diversion, but a social force of tremendous
consequence for the personal character and na-
tional culture. The leadership in such a process
of enlightenment must come from educators,
psychiatrists, and social workers who have them—-
selves apprehended the present values in recrea-
tion and who can anticipate the implications of
recreation which exists in and for itself, rather
than as a utilitarian preparation for further eco-
nomic activity.

It must be obvious that any discussion of the
contributions of recreation to the development of
wholesome personality will contain large elements
of personal philosoPhy for two reasons: In the
first place the volume of research informatioh
upon the effect of recreation is wholly inadequate
to support strong pronouncements, however
much the amassing of personal experience may
lead one to sharp conclusions; secondly, the con-
cept of wholesome personality is largely a norma-
tive groupings of values set up by psychiatrists
and laymen, and accepted by the person carrying
on the discussion. With this recognition of the
personal bias in mind, let us proceed to a consid-
eration of the bearing of rec-
reation upon personality.

Long before the launching
of the mental hygiene move-
ment, certain advocates of rec—
reation were proclaiming the
value of a sound mind in a

307

308 CONTRIBUTIONS OF RECREATION TO PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT

sound body, and were
pointing out that recre—
tion produced sound
bodies. Sometimes there
was a naive belief that
strong bodies, capable
of efficient gross physi-
cal functioning, auto-
matically contributed to
mental wholesomeness.
The more astute, how-
ever, recognized that
while there was inter-
action between p h y s i c a 1
health and mental efficiency,
the playground and gymna-
sium still left something to be desired as agencies
for developing sound mentality. People might be
not only beautiful but dumb, but husky and dumb.

A sound mind in a sound body at best ex-
pressed the ideal that the body should be kept in
condition so that the purposes of the sound men-
tality might be achieved in action. Horace Mann
had well pointed out that one of the tragic facts
of life was the failure of men and women of
marked intellect and social spirit to carry through
to completion tasks which would enrich commun—
ity life, for want of physical fortitude in the
crises which inevitably arose.

Wholesome Personality Defined

As the understanding of mental hygiene de-
veloped the dichotomy between mind and body
tended to disappear, as well as the mystical faith
in the interaction of the two. Personality was
conceived of as the dominant organization of
traits and habits, and it was recognized that emo-
tional reactions were as important as the more
overt physical and mental reactions. Indeed the
notion grew that probably all of the reactions
which are components of the personality, whether
they be called mental, physical, or emotional, are
basically physiological and as such are capable of
training or re-education in accordance with the
principles of habit formation.

The wholesome personality is variously re—
garded by various authorities and concerning
these views, as concerning other values, there can
be little profitable dispute. However, agreement
upon some elements appears to have been reached.
The wholesome personality is that in which the
various elements and trends have been so or-
ganized that conflict within the individual does

 

Children set high value upon achieve-
ments in their recreational pursuits.

not obtrude so as to in-
terfere with health and
efficiency. The whole-
some personality is one
which can carry on the
ordinary business of
life with efficiency and
zest.

A wholesome person
is vocationally ade—
quate; he has interests
which keep him occu-
pied in his free time
and which leave no after-
math of self-condemnation
nor doubt; he has resources
with which to meet disappointments and disaster,
and he gets along with his fellows without undue
friction and, in the main, with positive pleasure.

Recreation, apart from formal training, can
hardly render a person vocationally adequate.
either now or in a new era. But to the degree that
recreation sends a person back to his work with
his body invigorated -and his spirits refreshed, it
contributes to vocational adequacy. There are,
however, definite possibilities or achieving voca-
tional values in the recreation of children. The
vast range of interests and hobbies, including
individual and group projects, may serve to
quicken an interest which becomes an educa-
tional and vocational goal. In fact, such move-
ments as the Scouts offer as a justification of
their merit-badge work that the sampling of a
wide variety of intellectual and handcraft activi-
ties gives a body of pre-vocational experiences
which may help a child to discover an aptitude
leading toward a satisfying vocation.

We are inclined to believe that one of the chief
values of the coming leisure will be the possibility
of adults engaging in types of informal education
which possess definite recreational values, but
which nevertheless make possible the redirection
of vocational life into new channels.

The Project Method in Recreation

The application of the project method to rec-
reational work, especially among children, makes
a contribution of first rank importance to the de-
velopment of wholesome personality. Modern
recreational leaders, especially in group work, are
rejecting super—imposed programs of activity and
are, instead, studying the interests of people for
the purpose of helping individuals engage in lei—

CONTRIBUTIONS OF RECREATION TO PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT 309

sure time ventures which enlist their wholehearted
activity.

As Frederick Lyman Wells has said, a prime
requisite for mental health is the possession of
sets of interests which act as balancing factors in
times of stress. Religion and philosophy consti-
tute such factors, but so do golf, chamber music,
clay modelling, swimming, and amateur chemical
experimentation. \Vhen the storms of life break
over the heads of people who have no interests
outside of their jobs and their emotional ties with
relatives, they are in danger of going to pieces.
But those who possess even a single absorbing
interest, whether it be stamp-collecting or travel,
are in a better position to stand bereavement, dis-
appointment in people, or financial ruin.

Since the schools have not as yet caught the
vision of the kind of life which modern people
are undoubtedly going to live, and since, to a
large degree, they' follow stereotyped ideas of
teaching subjects which presumably have utilitar-
ian values, they constantly thwart present inter-
ests and crush enthusiasms. The result too often
is that students emerge with a sense of boredom
.and a determination never again to have anything
to do with history, literature, drama, music, sci-
ence, or the arts and crafts. If people are to be
aided to see that:

“The world is so full of a number of things

I’m sure we should all be as happy as kings”
it will be the task of recreational leaders to bring
this about.

The acceptance of the project principle in rec-
reation is particularly sound from the mental
hygiene point of view because of the recognition
that the feeling of enthusiasm for the activity is
more important than the
mere performance of the ac-

can be no sense of confidence and self-esteem,
and the psychiatrist will testify to the centrality
of adequately based self-esteem in the make-up
of sound personality. Some degree of success is
necessary in the major areas of life, but if the in-
dividual is frustrated in vocational, sex, or social
endeavors he may still obtain a measure of fulfill-
ment in leisure time activities.

The experience of success is particularly im-
portant in the emotional life of children, and a
society which recognizes that personality does not
just happen, but that its development is suscep-
tible of intelligent direction and control, will pro-
vide for all of its children opportunities for
graded achievements in formal education and in
the areas of recreation.

\Vhile we would not deprecate the substantial
value of home and school experience, it neverthe~
less is true that the child’s highest valuations are
usually placed upon success in those activities of
which his fellows see the worth. The yOUngster,
seeking status in his group, finds that he can
achieve recognition and attain social security
more surely in the recreational areas of experi-
ence. Such abilities as running, climbing, swim-
ming, diving, hitting home runs, camping and

canoeing seem more important to children than ex-

cellence in school work, punctuality or faithful
performance of home duties.

The child who achieves social security because
his worth to the crowd is recognized is on the
way to sound adult social adjustment. The re-
searches of Professor W. I. Newstetter and the
staff of Wawokiye Camp, as well as the findings
of the staff of the Institute of Juvenile Research

in Chicago, remove any doubt regarding the high
value which children set upon
achievement in leisure time

tivity itself. Performance
gives an experience of activ-
ity, but zest furnishes the
motive power by which one
can carry on to ever-widen-
ing areas of experience, de-
spite the lack of leadership.

Achievement Plus Zest

The combination of
achievement with zest is im-
portant to the development
,of sound personality. With-
out success in the achieve-
ment of one’s purposes there

“One out of twenty of us, it is estimat-
ed. will require treatment by the psy-
chiatrist before we have come to the
end of our active lives. One out of ten
of us will go about in the gravest anx-
icty ovcr the mental state of some one
ncar and dear to us. Is it to be conceived
that such a condition would obtain if
we built our standards around interests
that livc and grow, and that ceaselessly
prcss upon us thcir claims for more
tinlc and thought? Any wisc physician
will recommend the virtue of a hobby
to case thc stresses of life. The intel-
lectual world is rich enough to give
each of us his appropriatc hobby.”—
Alvin Sanders Johnston, in The Jour-

nal of Adult Education, April 1933.

pursuits which bring them
the favorable attention of
their fellows.

Group Adjustments

An important instrument
in the reshaping of the per-
sonality of the child is the
leisure time group. If an
adjustment can be made to a
group whose values are so-
cially sound, the process of
wholesome development is
aided. But too often psy-
chiatrists, social workers,

310 CONTRIBUTIONS OF RECREATION TO PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT

"If we can educate a
generation of people
to value construct-
ive ability and sen-
sitivity to beauty,
goodness and truth,
the culture of Amer-
ica will be ossured."

and recreational lead-
ers, recognizing the
essential values of
g r o u p adjustment,
attempt to place an
unadjusted child in
a group of children
already formed. Nothing can be more cruel than
the experience of rejection with which an in-
group sometimes greets an outsider who appears
strange, inept, or queer. Experience seems to
demonstrate that the best way to secure for a
child the benefits of group experience which have
heretofore been denied him is to fit him into an
interest group, rather than a sociable grOUp, choos-
ing carefully a group formed for an activity in
which the child has already expressed an interest
or demonstrated some capacity.

It is important to recognize the tremendous
power of the group of leisure—time cronies in mis-
directing the aspirations of a child. If status is
to be achieved by exploits which his friends value,
and if they already have admiration for the child
who lies, steals, swaggers, commits sex offenses,
plays truant, or runs away from home, these ac-
tivities will appeal to the youngster. The import
of this fact for character development has already
been pointed out in the researches of Hartshorne
and May, and the later work of Sorenson.

Communities which are concerned first with
the development of ethical character in their citi-
zens will not be misled by petty considerations of
economy into depriving their children of recrea—
tional opportunities under trained leadership.
,They will recognize that times of social stress and
rapid transition to new social values are precisely
the times when false economy proves most costly.

Communities with the long range view will
recognize that if codes of action gain sanction
from the recreational group, the sensible thing to
do is to give the group such leadership and oppor-

Courtesy Oak Park Playground Board

 

tunity for wholesome recreation that socially ac-
ceptable values dominate. Herein lies the wisdom
of the more recent use of the patrol method in
the scouting organizations, and of the clubs form-
ed by the Y. M. C. A.’s, Y. W. C. A.’s, settlements,
churches and community centers, from groups of
friends who habitually play together. It would
also seem apparent that group workers would
need to recognize the value of bringing sociable
influences into groups of children formed for
such special purposes as art or music.

The study of present social trends seems to in-
dicate that within a decade or two the pace of eco-
nomic life will very definitely have moderated,
that people will live in better houses with more
conveniences, over-crowding and concentration
in centralized urban areas will largely have disap-
peared, and physical mobility will have improved
markedly. Greater social security will be offered
through insurance and social legislation. The net
effect should be to reduce and even eliminate
many of the strains which now serve to disinte-
grate personality.

Security and leisure, however, are likely to be
achieved at the cost of skill in the performance of
challenging tasks, for industry, commerce, and
even agriculture appear to be moving inevitably
in the directiOn of specialization, subdivision of
tasks, and of necessity toward routine and repeti-
tion. The professional man and the small inde-
pendent craftsman may find fulfillment in their

' daily work, but for the great majority of men and

women the substantial values of achievement will
have to be secured outside the walls of the shop,
store or office.

CONTRIBUTIONS OF RECREATION TO PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT 311

Unless we are to have a generation of people
whose sense of achievement rests largely upon
the watching of dials, lights and gauges, and the
manipulation of levers, pedals and buttons a
generation superficially sophisticated because it
controls power even though it does not under-
stand its source and nature, we shall need to capi-
talize the cultural values of recreation as a mat-
ter of public policy.

 

Preparing for Greater Leisure

We must provide now opportunities to learn
those skills which result in personal satisfaction,
for the larger leisure is upon us. To complain
that increased leisure means the menacing of char-
acter because men do not now know the profitable
uses of leisure is to forget that the only sound
way of learning is by doing. Men will learn to use
leisure by having leisure to use, but the commun-
ity that has learned the lesson of social analysis
and planning will prepare its citizens for richness
of life and fullness of interest by a sweeping pro-
gram of public recreation which embraces the
whole range of human interest.

An adequate preparation for the use of leisure
time would include the teaching of those skills in
physical recreation which serve to relax the body,
refine its controls, and give a sense of exhilaration
through achievement of grace and form. Such
activities include swimming, diving, riding. tap
and social dancing, tennis, handball, squash, and
similar sports. The sense of physical well—being
will not insure sound personality, but it does fur—
nish the persuasive undertone of physical com-
petence and self-respect.

Physical recreation will not suffice to furnish
all the elements for a sound personality. The
need to achieve security will dictate the establish-
ment of friendly relations with other people. We
recognize that among children the success of
these relationships depends largely upon athletic
achievements and relatively simple social exploits.
We may hope, however, that as the tide of Amer-
ican cultural life sweeps on, status will more and
more be accorded to people who possess com-
petence in the arts and crafts, and in social rela-
tions which affect fundamental community forces.
Already we see that in experimental schools, the
recognition value of mere athletic exploits is be-
ing diminished and that substantial achievement
in science, music and art, literature, debate, and
social organization gains ascendency.

Finally, we must not overlook the fact in our

emphasis upon social values, that a recreational
program which nurtures the whole personality
must develop within an individual tastes and in-
terests which he can carry on by himself and for
himself. N 0 man is genuinely a free personality,
if he carries on his activities solely for the ap-
proval they bring him from others. Unless he
can achieve some interests and tastes which are
purer personal in their reference, he will not
have the resources for the enjoyment of solitude,
and without the ability to think and work occa-
sionally in solitude, he will live life on the basis of
Stlperf‘icial reaction to multiple stimuli. His per-
sonality will then not be an integrating center for
values and drives, but will itself be a chance re-
sultant of social forces, drives, and stimuli. The
prophets, mystics, artists and philosophers have
always known the secret that only in the quiet of
solitude can a man work out his own values and
become his own master. Unless the leaders in
mental hygiene and recreation rediscover that
truth and help achieve its realization in human
life, their work will be a vain busyness with many
things.

Broadly conceived and socially planned recrea-
tion will make contributions of inestimable worth
to the development of wholesome personality, but
We must not expect it to achieve its results in a
chaotic social and economic system in which anti-—
social motives are so largely dominant. We are
reminded of the Italian gardener on the Pacific
Coast who came to his employer with the state-
ment that he wished to quit his job. Pressed for
his reason, he answered that he wanted to go to
work for Uncle Sam. He said the government
would pay better wages. With regret his em-
ployer released him. Six months later the gar-
dener was back, applying for his old job. “Why,
Aneglo,” his employer remarked, “I thought you
said Uncle Sam was a better employer. Why did
you quit?" Angelo answered, “Uncle Sam, he one
big a fool, he don’t know what to do. He build a
big a light house in de bay. \N e put a de stones
in de water and build a de house, den we put a de
light in de house, and a bell in de house and a fog
horn in de house. De bell she ring, the light she
shine, an de fog horn go ‘woo, woo’—but de fog,
she come in just the same.”

Don’t expect recreation to stem or reverse the
anti-social forces of an unplanned society, but
look to it to illuminate personal and social life and
to make the world a somewhat better place in
which to live.

The Pattern of Leisure

By ERNEST H. WILKINS
President, Oberlin College

experience which lies between the neces-

sary activities of life, on the one hand, and
worship, on the other. Of course the separation
is not absolute. The different regions thus sug-
gested are not marked off by sharp boundaries:
they blend into each other gradually, and they are
linked by special lines of thought and feeling
which run from one into the other.

Leisure lends itself to two different analyses,
both quite simple and quite sound. The first anal—
ysis is this: some of our leisure time is spent
alone, and some of it is spent with companions.
We might say, then, that the field of leisure is
divided into a left half and a right half, the left
half representing leisure Spent alone, and the right
half leisure spent with companions.

The second analysis is this: some of our leisure
time is spent in inactivity, and some of it is spent
in activity. The distinction between these two
types of leisure is basically physical, and is, of
course, not absolute. We may think of inactivity
as including those ways of spending leisure which
call for practically no physical exertion or skill;
and of activity as including those ways of spend-
ing leisure which do call for some considerable
degree of physical exertion or skill. We might
say, then, that the field of leisure is divided into
an upper half and a lower half, the upper half
representing leisure spent in inactivity, and the
lower half leisure spent in activity.

That gives us, as you see, four possibilities:
leisure alone, spent in inactivity; leisure alone,
spent in activity; leisure with companions, spent
in inactivity; leisure with companions, spent in
activity.

If you see things in diagrammatic form, the
field of leisure may take for you the shape of a
large square divided by two internal lines into
four quarters:

312

WE MAY THINK of leisure as that region of

Dr. \Vilkins'J interesting conception of
the division of the field of leisure into
four parts was presented in connection
with his address at Western Reserve
Commencement and Founder’s Day
Excrcises. It is reprinted in RECREATION
through the courtcsy of The Library
Journal for September 15th.

      
 
 

Alone Alone

in inactivity in activity

\Vith companions With companions

in inactivity in activity

     

The idea of these four divisions of leisure
brings me at once to what may be the most nearly
helpful thing I have to say. All four quarters
of the square are good; all four types of leisure
are good; and in a well-ordered life they should
be well balanced. Most of us tend to put too
much relative weight on the fourth quarter, ac-
tivity with companions, and to slight the values
of the other three types of leisure. Some of us
do not know what to do with inactivity, or even
fear it; some of us do not know what to do when
we are alone, or even fear being alone. Those of
us who suffer from such fear or ignorance under-
go endless discontent, and miss a great deal of
readily available happiness.

I should like next to suggest that leisure has
a certain pattern; and that this pattern may be
applied, with different results, in each of the four
divisions of leisure.

The pattern has five elements, which might be
thought of as threads or as colors: thinking, read-

-ing, art, avocation, and recreation. It will, per-

haps help you to follow my thought if you think

THE PATTERN OF LEISURE 313

of the five words as if they were arranged in a

column :
thinking
reading
art
avocation
recreation.

The element of art is itself threefold, compris-
ing the fine arts, music, and drama. The elements
of avocation and recreation are each twofold,
since each has an indoor phase and an outdoor
phase.

Let me next suggest that the well-ordered life
draws extensively on all the elements of this pat-
tern. To neglect any one of them, or any group
of them, would be really as naive as to limit one’s
use of a piano by playing always in the same key,
or by using only the black notes. The resources
for leisure, in their different combinations, are in-
finitely rich. It is surely the part of wisdom and
of happiness to draw as extensively as we can on
their well-nigh infinite variety.

Now let us apply our fivefold pattern to the
first of the four main divisions of leisure, namely,
leisure spent alone and in inactivity, and see what
happens.

Imagine, then, that you are quite alone, with
a considerable amount of leisure time before you,
and that for some reason or other you are in-
clined to an inactive rather than to an active
type of leisure. Imagine, furthermore, for the
moment, that you are at home.

The pattern then suggests that you have be fore
you live resources: thinking, reading, art, avoca-
tion, recreation. Let us look at them for a
moment, one by one.

The idea that thinking is really
a resource for leisure is not a
fashionable one: yet thinking is
the surest, and may be the rich-
est, of all resources. I am not re-
ferring now to hard, creative
thought, but to the quiet un-
forced thinking of leisure, which
may range from a passivity in
which the mind lies fallow to the
unhurried survey of some por-

Art weaving and other forms
of arts and crafts are activites
which may be enjoyed alone.

tion of a rich and living treasure house: from the
attitude suggested by the phrase “to loaf and in-
vite one’s soul,” to the attitude suggested by the
phrase “my mind to me a kingdom is.” Medita-
tion is almost a lost art; its loss, if it be not re-
captured, is a great impoverishment of life. Dante
said, in a Latin phrase I like to quote, sedendo et
qm'escendo perfiritur homo: “by sitting in quiet-
ness is a man made perfect.” That is not the
whole truth, but there is more truth in it than we
can well afford to disregard.

That reading is the greatest of all resources for
leisure spent alone in inactivity, I will not seek to
prove to this audience, since I know that you need
no such proof.

The enjoyment of beautiful objects as a phase
of leisure is a richer resource than we are likely
to realize, and is capable of more development
than we usually give it. Most of us in some
measure take delight in having beautiful things
about us, pictures of some sort, or lamps, or

vases, or flowers. But I think that we seldom get
all the joy there is to be had even out of things
which we own. \Ve appreciate them as a whole.
but there are fine details which we never seek out.
The way the Japanese get delight from a single
flower may serve, by contrast, to illustrate what
I mean. And after we have had things for a
time we tend to let our enjoyment grow stale.
It is a good plan, then, if we can, to change them
in some way, to replace one print or one photo-
graph with another, or to try the effect of rear-
ranging familiar things.

 

Courtesy Westchester County Recreation Commission

314 THE PATTERN OF LEISURE

Music does not come into
the particular type of leisure
we now have in mind, though
it will claim large place in
other types.

Drama, in this particular
type of leisure, is merely a
special phase of reading.

Avocation, however, enters
in large measure : in the form
of collection, for instance, or
in the form of study, or in
the form of imaginary travel,
if one makes more of that
than merely reading. Collec-
tion, of course, may be of
any one of several types: the
collection of prints is an ex-
cellent instance. Whatever
the objects collected are, col-
lection should always be ac-
companied with the fullest
possible understanding.

The joy of study for its
own sake is seldom realized
until one has hnished study-
ing for any degree or for any
professional purpose. T 0
have always some special
field of serious interest, un-
related, perhaps, to one’s
gainful work, some special field of interest which
one comes to think of as one’s own, about which
one gradually learns more and more, brings a
steadily enlarging pleasure and satisfaction. The
English have developed this type of amateur
scholarship much more than we have done. Your
English banker is quite likely to turn out to be a
Homeric scholar, or to be making an Italian dic-
tionary in the sunrise hours.

Recreation in leisure spent alone in inactivity
means necessarily some form of solitaire.

The sort of home inactivity which I have been
assuming hitherto is not the only type of leisure
spent alone in inactivity. For even while you re-
main at home the outside world may come in to
you by radio, giving you a whole territory of
leisure which you might perhaps call “radio in—
activity.” And if you apply your five fold pattern
to this territory you will get quite different results.

Thinking, in this connection, means listening
thoughtfully to a radio talk of soihe sort which
is worth listening to. Music, of course, claims

 

Courtesy W'cstchester County Recreation Commission

Sketching is an evocation which
many individuals enioy most when
in the company of other artists.

here a primary place. Tele-
vision will soon be adding to
our resources for the enjoy—-
ment of the beautiful, and
will, with radio, bring drama
to us in all its visible and
audible interest. Avocation
may be cultivated as one
listens to the account of the
experiences of someone hav-
ing the same avocation.

Still a third type of leisure
spent alone in inactivity con-
sists in being present alone,
either by choice or fame de
micztx, at some place of lei-
sure outside the home: at an
entertainment, concert, play,
film, exhibition, in a museum
-—or last, and by no means
least, in a public library. Ap-
plication of the fivefold pat-
tern would in this case also
yield interesting results, over
which, however, I shall not
pause.

Thus far I have dealt only
with the first of the four
great divisions of leisure, the
upper left hand quarter of
the square, leisure spent alone
in inactivity—and I have by no means exhausted
that portion of my theme.

To treat the other three quarters with even the
same small degree of completeness, to apply the
fivefold pattern again and again and again, would
take far too much time, and I shall not attempt
to do it. Perhaps you may spend a little leisure
in making the attempt for yourselves.

Let me merely suggest, choosing almost at ran-
dom, just a few of the types of interest which
appear through the application of the pattern to
the other quarters of the' square.

In the field of leisure spent alone but in ac-
tivity, the lower left hand quarter of the square,
we find, for instance, that the first element in the
pattern, thinking, now becomes writing-.—not
writing for publication, which is not a matter of
leisure, but writing for the sheer satisfaction of
the process itself, with the possibility perhaps of
some minor social use of the result.

Here,'too, comes amateur work in the field of

( Continued on page 345)

Don’t Cut Out Recreation
While Effecting Economy!

Children must, should and will
'play. For the current genera-
tion there can be no postpone-
ment. It is now or never.

HERE IS MUCH excitement about public
T economy and also concerning the suppression

of crime. These two major social objectives
of today often conflict. In no way is their oppo—
sition more evident than in current attitudes to-
ward curtailing national, state and local contribu—
tions to recreation for children.

This is an important point, since it is well
established :

(I) That the great majority of first offenders
today are between sixteen and twenty—one, and

(2) That no item is more powerful in reduc—
ing juvenile crime than adequate facilities for
well-directed recreation on the part of American
youth.

Our cities, for example, present a curious and
dangerously inconsistency when they severely
curtail appropriations for recreation and at the
same time bewail the growth of crime.

The National Recreation Association has ad—
mirably summarized the essential facts and prin-
ciples involved:

“Children must, should and will play. For the
current generation of children, there can be no
postponement—for them it is now or never.
Under modern urban conditions, public provision
has to be made if children are to have proper op-
portunity for play. Not only their happiness—-
their safety, health, organic development and
character are involved.

“Recreation of a wholesome type is needed to—
day as never before, especially for the unem-
ployed who have so much enforced leisure on
their hands. Idle, with a resulting tendency to-
wards low morale, with no resources to buy the
diversion offered by commercial recreation, the

 

Courtesy Iowa C hild Welfare Research Station

By HARRY ELMER BARNES

large number of unemployed adults peculiarly
need the resources of public recreation.

“This is especially true of young adults, full of
life and vigor, undisciplined by previous work
experience, disappointed in their rightful hope
and expectation for a job. Through with school,
without occupation, they are acutely exposed to
anti-social forces and other deteriorating tempta—
tions of idleness.

“Idleness is and always has been dangerous and
expensive. Recreation is no substitute for work,
but it can and does help tremendously.

“Budgets for public recreation are small—they
present opportunities for only trifling savings as
compared to the social value of the services they
supply. '

“Greater public tax costs are probable if recre—
ation is eliminated or too severely reduced. Not
only are human values of happiness, safety.
morale, character, and the like at stake. Decreased
expenditure for recreation will involve increase
in taxes to maintain jails, reformatories, prisons,
insane asylums and hospitals. The chairman of
the National Crime Commission has said: ‘If we
expended one half of the money spent to deal
with criminals on playgrounds, with facilities for
the normal expression of these warped lives, we
would not have one half as many people go into

prison.’ ”
These are considerations full of fact and sense.

The annual cost of crime and rackets in the
(Continued on page 346)

315

Los Angeles Troins for Enlarged Leisure

N EVERY hand today
0 interest is evident in

the problems result-
ing from increased leisure,
whether that leisure be vol-
untary or enforced. The
economic and social trends of the day clearly
bring out the fact that one of our major problems
throughout the nation is how to transform added
leisure hours from the liability column into the
classification of assets.

The problem faced by the Los Angeles Depart-
ment of Playground and Recreation with a tre-
mendously increased attendance rate and a de-
creased budget in the interests of governmental
economies, was and is, “What to do about it?”
With over a million and a quarter people scattered
over a geographic area in excess of 450 square
miles, obviously the Department could not “put
out the light and go to sleep.”

One of the solutions of the problem has been
sought in the field of a better trained leadership,
both professional and voluntary. The experience
of the past year is presented here with the hope
that it may be helpful to others, and that sugges-
tions from recreation departments of other cities
may be forthcoming, which will be helpful to us.

In the matter of leadership training, a four-
fold problem presents itself:

(1) The training of the professional paid staff
of the Recreation Department.

(2) Recruiting and training the volunteer staff
of leaders for service at the recreational centers.

(3) Training of volunteer leaders for exten-
sion work out into the communities of the city,
serving through various organizations such as
children’s institutions, churches, social welfare
and character build in g
groups, civic organizations,
luncheon clubs and wom-
en’s clubs.

(4) Last, but not least,
the development of 1 “rec-
reation minded” .public in
order that in times such as
these when the need for a
community- wide program

316

By GLEN 0. GRANT
Assistant Superintendent

Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles, California

“What can the municipal recreation de-
partment do to train its own workers and .
volunteers in the community to provide fall before: 3 561135 0f
the leadership which the demands of in-
creasing leisure are making imperative?”
No more important problem faces leaders
in the field of municipal recreation today.
We are presenting here the experience of
one city in conducting recreation training
institutes during the past year.

of constructive leisure time
activity is paramount, the
necessary support to insure
the continuance of such a
program may be forth-
coming.

An Institute in Social Recreation Leadership

One of the first projects of the year was a
social recreation leadership institute held during
the month of January, 1932, under the leadership
of Robert K. Murray of the staff of the National
Recreation Association. This institute was held in
two sections—-—a morning session exclusively for
the professional staff of the Municipal Recrea—
tion Department, and an evening session for lead-
ers of other organizations throughout the com-
munity. The response from the Department staff
was immediate and enthusiastic, and it is impos—
sible to estimate the values received in enlarged
social programs at the various centers through-
out the city.

Over 150 leaders of the community responded
to the evening session program. Thirty-one came
from churches of the city; twenty from clubs and
character building organizations; two were per-
sonnel directors from large industries; thirty-two
were teachers and physical education directors
from the schools of the city; five were students
in training in the universities for recreation work;
twenty-three were volunteer leaders at recreation
centers, and the remaining thirty—five or more
came from miscellaneous institutions or did not
state their connection. The results obtained are
markedly evident in all parts of the city from
which these enthusiastic leaders came.

As a result of the above social recreation insti-
tute and the second annual
recreation and play leader-
ship conference held the

special skills participation
g r o u p s was instituted
throughout the following
months. Full-fledged and
embryo leaders were given
an opportunity to designate

LOS ANGELES TRAINS FOR ENLARGED LEISURE - 317

the fields of leadership
in which they desired
special training. As a
result, groups, in the
following fields were
organized: men’s and
boys’ manual crafts,
w o m en ’ s and girls’
handcraft, community
singing leadership, ad-
ditional training in so—
cial recreation, sports
leadership, aquatics-
methods and practice—-
story telling and dra—
matics, camping and
camp activities, boys’
and girls’ club leader-
ship. VVherever a project affording opportunity
for training in the desired field was already es-
tablished in the city, those interested were re-
ferred to this source. In other instances, Special
groups were organized. .

In connection with these training projects,
those participating were given an opportunity to
sign a volunteer recreation leadership enrollment
card upon which they pledged their desire to
serve in volunteer leadership in their chosen field

of activity.

Institutes for Special Groups

Because of the fact that many major organiza—
tions within the community were looking to the
Municipal Department of Playground and Recre-
tion for standards of leadership and the techni-
cal staff to train volunteers, two very interesting
and successful institutes were held for special
groups. The first of these was the first annual
Parent-Teachers recreation institute. This or-
ganization, with a membership of over 50,000 in
the city, embodied in over 240 different associa-
tions, requested aid. Accordingly, during the
month of October a special series of training ses-
sions was conducted. The total units of attend-
ance at this institute were 766. Eighty-seven
schools were represented of which 46 were ele-
mentary and 41 junior and senior high. At the
close of the institute I 51 certificates of attend—
ance were awarded, and it was discovered that
there had been an average attendance of 225 at

each session through out the series. The results'

Obtained have been noted in every part of the
city, and enlargement of community life in terms

 

Home recreation was a subject of interest
at the institute for parent—teacher groups

of neighborliness, ,op-
timism and better and
more enthusiastic citi-
zenship was observed.

The program of this
institute included train-
ing in social recreation,
community singing, in-
expensive handcrafts,
home recreation, cul-
tural activities, party
planning and other per-
tinent subjects.

Following closely on
the heels of this insti-
tute came the third an-
nual recreation an (1
play leadership confer-
ence. This project is looked for eagerly each year.
Planned for volunteer and professional leaders
and all others interested in the play and recrea-
tion field and its extension as a medium for the
development of more abundant and wholesome
living, this conference met with enthusiastic re-
sponse, with a total number of 717 registrations.
A program involving inspirational and instruc-
tional addresses by outstanding leaders of the
community was presented. The County Chief
Probation Officer spoke on the subject, “Why
Have Delinquents?” An outstanding educator
from one of the local universities dealt with the
subject, “Who Are the Educated?” The Director
of Educational Activity and Chief of Staff of the
Orthopaedic Hospital presented, “Recreation for
Mental and Physical Health,” and the judge of
the Juvenile Court gave us “Character Building
Agencies, a Force for Good Citizenship.”

Each evening two periods of activity followed
the presentation of one of the talks mentioned
above. Subjects such as these followed in se—
quence: “Recreation Programs and Methods for
Boys,” “Play and Recreation for Women and
Girls,” “Men’s Sports and Gymnasium Activi-
ties” and “Recreation for Industrial Groups,” and
in presenting these subjects the activities de—
scribed were actually demonstrated by typical
participation groups.

The closing period each evening was a party
period in which various types of suitable recrea-
tion activities such as social games, stunts, folk
dancing and games, community singing and dra-
matic recreation were presented, with all par-
t1c1pating.

318 LOS ANGELES TRAINS FOR ENLARGED LEISURE

At the close of the conference, which lasted
throughout the month, 328 certificates of attend-
ance were awarded those meeting the stringent
attendance requirements.

The second group requesting a special institute
comprised church leaders of the city. As a result
of the urgent requests made for such an institute,
a committee representing all the churches of all
faiths was called, from which a Program Com-
mittee was designated, composed of the execu-
tive secretary of the Catholic Big Brothers, the
executive of the Jewish Modern Social Center, a
member of the Recreation Committee of the
Church of Latter Day Saints (Mormon), and the
presidents of the Baptist Young Peoples’ Union
and the Southern California Conference Epworth
League. With the objectives in mind to discover
the recreational and social needs of the local
church groups and the necessity of developing a
program and leadership for meeting these needs
. as an integral part of the church program, this
committee established the following program:

Addresses were given on the following sub-
jects: “The Objectives, Aims, Program and
Trends of the Present Day Church Center Rec-
reation Movement,” by Lynn Rohrbough, execu-
tive of the Church Recreation Service; “Party
Planning,” by the Supervisor of Industrial Rec—
reation of the Municipal Department of Play-
ground and Recreation; “Leadership Qualifica-
tions,” by the Boy Scout executive; “Cultural
Activities in the Church Recreational Program,”
by a leading rabbi; “Service Activities and
Church Young People,” by the president of the
Los Angeles Community Chest; “The Objectives
and Program of the Young People’s Club,” by an
outstanding Y. M. C. A. secretary; “Physical Ac-
tivity Program for Girls and
Women,” by the head of the
Women’s Division of the Depart-
ment of Physical Education of a
local university; “Physical Activ-
ity Pr0gram for Men and Boys,”
as related to the church, by the
Director of Municipal Sports of
the Municipal Department of
Playground and Recreation.

No institute for workers with boys
andgirlswould be complete without
instruction in dramatic activities.

At the conclusion of each evening’s program,
demonstrations of suitable social recreation activi-
ties were presented by participating groups. This
was following in each case by a closing party
period, when all those registered in the institute
participated.

As a result of this institute, a definite request
was made for the continuance of the fellowship
established in a social recreation clinic, to beheld
once a month to which leaders of church recrea-
tion programs would come for suggestions and
methods to be used in presenting activities suit-
able for party affairs in their churches the fol-
lowing month. This program has been instituted
and carried on continuously since the time of the
institute, with enthusiastic response.

Following the church centered recreation insti-
tute, certificates of attendance to 32 people were
awarded those attending all sessions of the
institute.

For Leaders in Girls’ and Boys’ Activities

During the fall of the year, under the sponsor-
ship of the Los Angeles Girls’ Council, a train-
ing course was presented for the training of lead-
ership in the girls’ character building groups of
the community, under the leadership of the Su-
pervisor of Industrial Recreation of the Munici-
pal Department, who was president of this coun-
cil. Aided by all executives of girls’ character
building groups, a very comprehensive training
course was presented with a total aggregate at-
tendance of 1,500, and an enrolled registration of
268.

A program dealing with “Responsibilities of
Leadership,” “Crafts for Beginners and Ad-
vanced,” “Program Planning and Recreational

 

Caurtesy Board of Recreation Commissioners, East Orange, N. J.

LOS ANGELES TRAINS FOR ENLARGED LEISURE 319

Methods,” “ Creative
Dramatics,” “ Personal
Charm,” “Responsibil—
ity in the Field of
Health and Personal
Hygiene,” “Responsi-
bility As a Social
Worker,” “ Develop—
ment of the Girl’s Men-
tal Attitudes,” “Story
Telling and Vocational
Guidance,” “A Basis
for the Girl’s Leisure
Time Program” and
o t h e r pertinent sub-
jects, was presented.

In line with this pro-
gram of training for girls’ club leadership, the
Municipal Department throughout the year gave
material to the training program for the boys’
character building agencies, in the use of facili-
ties or personnel in training courses for Wood-
craft Rangers, Sea Scouts, Y. M. C. A. groups,
and others.

Institutes for Leaders in Aquatics

With an annual attendance exceeding 10,000,—
000 at the municipal beaches, one of the contin-
gent responsibilities of the Municipal Recreation
Department is the training of the public in mat-
ters of aquatics safety, and the establishment of
an aquatics staff qualified to meet emergencies
which occasionally occur. Ability to meet these
situations necessitates an effective and alert staff,
highly trained to meet all contingencies.

In the matter of public education, a three. reel
motion picture entitled, “Beach Safety Don’ts”
was made and shown before an aggregate of over
65,000 potential beach goers.

Two projects were initiated for the training of
aquatics personnel. The aquatics directors’ train-
ing course for the personnel of the Department
dealt with such subjects as “The Administration
of the Pool Plant” from a sanitary, business and
safety standpoint and with reference to the hand-
ling of the staff and of the public; “The Pool
Program” with regard to elementary and ad-
canced instruction, special non—competitive pro—
grams and competitive activities. These subjects
had to do with employed workers, but there was
also training given for volunteer workers. A
total of 34 hours of instruction in pool and class—
room was given, with a very noticeably increased

 

Camping, aquatics and allied subiects were insti-
tute tapics in the Los Angeles plan of training.

efficiency on the part of
the personnel resulting.

The second project.
the first annual aquatics
conference, was con—
ducted with the coop—
eration of aquatics ex-
ecutives of neighboring
cities. This program
met with a response in
the registration of 141
o e o p l e, representing
many different cities
and organizations car-
rying on programs of
aquatic activity. Such
pertinent subjects were
presented as: “History of Life Saving,” “Modern
Methods of Resuscitation,” “Life Guard Train—
ing and Organization.” “Life Saving Equipment,”
“Experiences in a Life Guard’s Day,” “Princi-
ples of Publicity and Advertising,” “Personnel
Problems,” “Place of Aquatics in Recreation
Program,” “Development of Water Front Activi-
ties,”-“A Municipal Aquatics Pr0gram,” “The
Contribution of the Red Cross to Aquatics Safety
and Activity Program,” “Clean Beaches and Sea-
weed Disposal,” “Some Values in Aquatic Activi—
ties,” “Some Problems of Swimming Pool Sani-
tation,” and “Timer Legislative Problems.”

A third training project dealing with aquatics
leadership was the institute of the American Red
Cross in first aid and life saving held at the run-
nicipal facilities at Cabrillo Beach. A training
course in swimming, life saving, canoeing, boat-
ing, diving, first aid, camp leadership, was pre—
sented during the two weeks’ period. Eighteen
resident students were enrolled, with an addi-
tional 35 non—resident membership. A total of 35
certificates were awarded at the close of the insti-
tute, covering 225 individual courses.

Cooperation with Camp Directors

Cooperation in the field of camp directors’
training resulted in the participation of our ex—
ecutive staff in the Camp Directors’ Association
of America conference at Asilomar, and the meet—
ing of the Southern California Camp directors
and executives at Laguna Beach, the Supervisor
of Municipal Camps of the Los Angeles Depart-
ment arranging the program of the section on.
municipal camps at the Asilomar conference and

(Continde on page 346)

Spectator Sports

By FRANK L. OKTAVEC

In a well-rounded school
sports program both doing
and watching have a place.

HE PRACTICE of “looking on” while others en-
T gage in sport activity is known to have ex-
isted in all historical eras, in all civilizations,

and among all cultures. Our increasing compre-
hension of the value of self-activity for growth
throws a new light on this age-old practice. Cem-
mercialization and exploitation of sports, mo-
notony in daily labor with its accompanying
drudgery and need for compensatory excitement.
and the increased time for leisure at our disposal
are all social changes which directly affect sports.
Let us review the possible good or evil for the
adolescent of both looking on and participating.
For adults spectator sports constitute a somewhat

f_7—_ _ '

 

Courtesy Extension Department, .‘lIiItc'auket‘ Public Schools

320

In Child Study, April 1933, Mr. Oktavee

points out the fallacy of the assumption
that watching a baseball game, a tennis
match or a dance is synonymous with
inactivity. He describes both the satis-
f'aetions and dangers of spectator sport
and analyses the factors which make
playing worth while. He reaches the
conclusion that if a choice between
watching and doing must he made, play-
ing is better than looking on. Better
still, he believes, is an educational pro-
gram in which both the watching and
the doing are arranged to suljplement
each other.

different problem, althotigh the solution lies in
the education of the adolescent. And in child-
hood, with its overwhelming drive to be active
and inability to watch others for long, the problem
hardly exists.

It is often assumed that watching a baseball
game, a tennis match or a dance is synonymous
with inactivity. This is never true,if watching is de-
fined as giving attention to what is being seen. He
who watches and perceives someone playing ten-
nis is in a sense as much a participant as he who
plays. To be a spectator is to be active. And we
know today, that whenever there is activity, there
is learning. To learn something is to modify one’s

SPECTATOR SPORTS 321

behavior either through
the acquisition of new
modes of behavior or
through the strength-
ening of those previ—
ously acquired.

But what is learned
through spectator and
pl a y e r participation
may be, and usually is.
quite different. For
each of these activities.
owing to its very na—
ture, brings with it dif-
ferent situations, dif-
ferent responses, and
hence, the learning of diEer-
ent behavior patterns.

Activity per so is not nec-
essarily good. If we assume that goodness is
manifested by a good society, then the desirability
of any activity can be determined solely in rela-
tion to the ultimate good of society. An under-
standing of this fundamental principle is para-
mount, since it is the basis for the evaluation of
spectator and player activities here presented. The
“good” society, here accepted as the social and
educational goal, is that expounded by John
Dewey. Spectator and player activities will be
weighed as they aid or hinder the realization of
this social order. Were we to accept the life goals
'of a von Metternich, Mussolini, Nietzsche, or
Tertullian as more desirable, our evaluation of
player and spectator activity most certainly would
be different.

In addition to the obvious differences between
spectator participation and player participation
there are also differences within each. The value
of watching or playing hinges more upon how
they are done, than upon their nature. All spec-
tator participation is not alike; neither is all
player participation.

Let us examine spectatorship first. With regard
to it, we need to determine: the kinds of behavior
that can be acquired through it; the use to which
it can be put to further the right kind of growth
and the responses to seeing others play that make
for behavior compatible with our goal.

One of the two most common forms of specta-
tor reaction is that of sheer sensory satisfaction.
To be with a crowd, to feel oneself a part of a
crowd, is to many satisfying. To watch moving
objects or players and to see a combat or a tussle

 

Boys of Reading,Pa., by"p|aying Indians"
gained an appreciation of Indian crafts.

is ofteil pleasing. Sus-
pense br anticipation is
thrilliiig. These reac-
tions i'esult from drives
deeply rooted in man.
They are rather infan-
tile ahd primitive. but
that does not lessen
their frequent desira-
bility or take away
their Usefulness in this
drudgery-ridden world.
These behaviors are no
more to be condemned
than the play of chil-
dren. As such, these
simple p l e a s u r e s would
scarcely CaitISe a problem;
they becoi’he one only when
such activity is entirely substittited for playing.

Satisfaction also comes as a feeling of success
or mastery when a member at a group or the
whole group, to which one has attached oneself,
is victorious. To be a membei‘ of Wampus Col-
lege, to be elated at a Wamplis College victory,
and to boast of this victory, even though having
made no contribution to it, illiiétrates this kind of
spectator sports. To be an Attlerican, to wish for
the success of John Smith’s Efforts to win an
Olympic race, to cheer oneself hoarse, and to feel
elation at John Smith’s sucbess, because John
Smith is a member of the Am ican Team, is an-
other familiar situation. It 111a “es little difference
whether the performer is known or even liked, so
long as he or she is from 1:53"; college, my fra-
ternity, my club, my home towh, my country, my
race. It brings pride as though the achievement
had been a personal one.* Slich satisfaction, be-
cause it can be so powerful, arid because it can be
acquired with so little effort, is often wholly sub-
stituted for the satisfaction of self-effort and self-
contribution. One of the chiei dangers of spec-
tator sports lies in this very tendency.

Success Takes on New Meaning

Another danger lies in the iect that vicarious
living, the satisfaction from iinaginary success,
can be of no good to a truly demOCratic society.
It is based on fictitious superioi‘ity, at the expense

 

* This is not to be confused with this equlete identification of
a spectator with a single player because thwarted desire for
achievement. This type belongs in the fist m Of the abnormal. Nor
is it to be confused with the joy gai ed ablely through seeing a
particular player happy. Pride in, and he dash: to "crow about,"
another’s achievement comes with a close hand between the player
and‘the onlooker.

322 i

of another’s humility and discomliture, and blindly
disregards the contributions of others which made
the success possible. Its chief contribution to soci-
ety is to perpetuate the “dog-eat—dog” philosophy

of the “rugged individualists,” a philosophy.

wholly inadequate in bringing about good for the
whole of modern society. It is a manifestation of
our primitive and barbarically acquisitive urge at
its worst.

If success is to be applauded, it must be judged
in terms of native ability and not in terms of an-
other’s weakness. If cheering is in order, it must
be for well executed performances, regardless of
the team membership of the performers, and it
must .be given spontaneously, not as a result of
directed mob psychology. If praise is to be given,
it must be to all who aided in the success, even
though they be the losers; for without the con-
tribution of the losers we could have no winners.

It seems safe to say that sensory satisfaction
and vicarious satisfaction through self-identifica—
tion are the commonest forms of spectator be-
havior. Another type, however, exists, one that
not only makes for the best kind of growth, but
which also is compatible with our social goal. This
is appreciation of the art of the thing one sees or
experiences. To perceive and to get an emotional
reaction from graceful bodily movement, nimble—
ness of foot, and power as expressed in play is to
catch the art of sports.

Such appreciation is comparable to, and every
bit as elevating as that for a symphony of Tschai-
kowski, a painting by Raphael, a dance by Pavlova
or a poem by Byron. It is the stuff out of which
the art of living is composed, and may well be-
come the stimulus for creative activity, whether
in sport, drama, music, sculpture or other arts.
We must teach our youth this kind of spectator-
ship which is active participation with aesthetic
and emotional values that are as important to
mankind as those derived by the player.

What Makes Playing Worth While?

Many advocate indiscriminate substitution of
player participation for all spectator participation
on the assumption, that the former types of activi-
ties are better than the latter. So far, we have
seen that some types of spectatorship are highly
desirable. We have also seen that to be worth
while, an activity, whether of a player or a spec-
tator nature, must'ibe the kind which will aid in
the development 50f society. If this is true, before
we can recommend substituting playing for

SPECTATOR SPORTS

watching, we must see under what conditions
playing is worth while. Four major conditions
must be satisfied.

The activity must be desired, and therefore
joyous. As a matter of fact, the feeling of joy
brings about the same physiological changes in
man as does engaging in vigorous neuromuscular
activity. Blood supply stored in the trunk is led
to the surface of the body and the blood vessels
in the muscles are extended. \Vith big muscle
activity plus joy, the effect for the good on the
individual is tremendous and can hardly be dup-
licated. The source of this feeling of joy is two-
fold—the native hunger to be active, and the play
spirit, that is, losing oneself completely in the
activity. On the other hand, when tennis or foot-
ball or any other sport becomes a bore or drudg-
ery, it not only loses all of its healthful values,
but may even becomes injurious.

Joy also demands enough ability so that the
achievement approximates one’s expected stand-
ard. If one has a high artistic appreciation of
tennis playing (or sculpture), to produce tennis
(or sculpture) of a grade much inferior to one’s
standard is unsatisfying. For this reason, physi-
cal education in school should be primarily for
instruction, not merely for recreation in the nar-
rower sense.

In addition the activity must bring with it the
acquisition of certain kinds of social and emo-
tional behaviors. Playing to win at all costs, play-
ing as though the game or its results were life
and death matters, using hatred or grudges as
stimuli for more vigorous efforts—all these are
detrimental to the development of a democratic
society. Conquest is desirable and even necessary,
but not that which is gained through the abase-
ment and disgrace of others. Mastery, as the
drive for continued effort, we must have, but it
must be mastery over oneself or over the forces
of nature.

Playing must also result in an increasing com—
mand, understanding and appreciation of the
neuro-muscular skills and strategies involved. Un-
less these skills and their appreciation are ac-
quired at an early age, they may be lost forever.
Furthermore, the acquisition of skills makes for
a more intelligent spectatorship.

Finally, playing must have healthful values. It
must satisfy the needs of the individual, and needs
differ. Too much is injurious and too little may
leave no effects. Playing must be done in proper

(Continued on page 347)

How to Produce a Play

By J ACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

After the rehearsals for
position come others for
lines, business and voice.

HEN POSITION rehearsals are over, the act—
W ors should learn their lines just as rapidly

and thoroughly as possible. This often re-
quires rather severe insistence on the part of the
director. A date should be set for the rehearsal
of each act without manuscripts. Four days are
usually ample for memorizing an act. On the date
set for rehearsal without scripts, the director col-
lects them before the rehearsal and does not re-
turn them until the rehearsal is over. Some actor
usually insists that he doesn’t know his lines. He
should be advised to get on the stage and try it
and be told that the prompter will prompt him.
The prompter may be obliged to prompt every
line, a process trying to the patience of all con—
cerned, but that actor is rather certain to know
his lines at the next rehearsal.

The lines should be given as written in the
manuscript. In modern plays some very slight
change in wording or phrasing might be permis-
sible, but the director should insist that the lines
be given as written by the playwright. The actor
with enough imagination to “make up” his lines

should write his own plays, not ruin some one _

else’s play!

Some actors memorize easily, some with dif-
ficulty. Memorizing is a habit which improves
with practice. It is usually better to memorize by
scenes, rather than by lines or speeches. For two
actors to work together outside of rehearsals, one
cuing the other, is not only effective in memoriz-
ing, but gives practice in “picking up” cues.

“Stage business’ is a theatre term referring to
any action performed upon the stage, such as the
removal of a hat, the opening of a package, a love

In this issue Mr. Knapp deals with
the subject of rehearsals for lines,
stage business and voice—all vitally
essential to the success of a play. In
the next number he will discuss re-
hearsals for sincerity. This will be
followed by articles on make-up and
costuming, and suggestions will be of-
fered for stage lighting and settings.
The final articles of the series will
take up the dress rehearsal and per-
formance.

scene or a shooting. All business must be re-
hearsed thoroughly and carefully. Some business
can be rehearsed while the lines are being learned.
Most of it, however, must be delayed until the
actors can work without their manuscripts. It is
quite difficult to open a safe or pr0pose to a lady
with a book in one’s hand and one’s eyes on the
script!

Business which involves the use of “hand
properties,” such as canes, eyeglasses, packages,
cards, or gloves, should be rehearsed with the
properties as soon as the lines are learned.

The writer has found it wise in rehearsing love
scenes with amateurs to hold private rehearsals
with the two principals before rehearsing the
scene before the rest of the cast. The scene is
then rehearsed at each regular rehearsal just as
thoroughly and matter-of-factly as any other
scene in the act.

If the scene involves the use of hats, wraps.
and gloves, rehearse with them. Many an actor
has worked through a drawing room scene with
his hat on because in the excitement of entering
he had forgotten to take it off!

If a shot is fired on the stage, a stage hand
planted in the wings with an extra pistol contain-
ing a blank cartridge may save an embarrassing
moment if the gun on the stage refuses to go off.
A shot off stage can not be told from a shot on
the stage.

Eating and drinking scenes should be carefully
rehearsed and timed. A mouthful of food ham-
pers diction, so eating is often merely a matter of
clever faking.

(Continued on page 347)

323

 

Photo by Doris Dav

I-liheward-I—lol

By DOROTHY DEMING

thing—a summit to which to hike! Others

prefer to hike over fields, woods or along
stretches of sandy beach. Hiking can be the best
sport in the world or the most dismal. It all de—
pends how you do it. There are rules to this as
to every game and sticking to the rules makes the
game a lot more fun.

To SOME PEOPLE a mountain means just one

The Equipment

If you are going on a long hike in unfamiliar
country, make up a group of at least three hikers
and be sure some one at home knows where you
are going. Wear loose, light clothing and take a
warm sweater or short coat. It may be “per-
fectly broiling” when you start off and a sweater
seems as unnecessary as a fur coat, but summer
weather is changeable and a sudden thunderstorm
may cool the air fifteen degrees to say nothing of
drenching the overheated hiker. Anyone who has

324

puffed and perspired to the top of a mountain
knows the cold, piercing winds which sweep con-
tinually over such heights. The sweater may be
carried in a knapsack along with lunch and first
aid kit, or it can be rolled and tied around the
waist by the sleeves. The first method is better
as it leaves the arms and body free.

There is nothing more important to a happy
hike than shoes. They are truly at the bottom of

,the hiker’s enjoyment. \Vrong shoes can spoil

the sunniest day, the best view, the most con-
genial crowd.

Real mountaineers wear high hob-nailed boots
and if your hike takes you over stony ground,
you too will need shoes with stiff, strong soles
and ankle support. For ordinary hiking, low-
heeled sport shoe or rubber-soled shoe of any
kind is comfortable. High heels, very new shoes
or very worn ones and thin, soft soles will hurt
after a few miles and be torture by nightfall.
Many hikers wear woolen socks.

HIKEWARD—HO! 325

A compass, or the knowledge of how to tell
direction by natural signs, a pocket knife, a can-
teen of water if you are walking where springs
have not been posted for purity (otherwise a cup
will do), a first aid kit and plenty of pep com-
plete the equipment you need for a good hike!

The first aid kit—the Boy and Girl Scout kits
are recommended—should contain a fresh gauze
bandage (1% inch wide), a roll of adhesive tape
(1 inch wide) two gauze compresses in a sterile
wax container, iodine or iodine swabs, cotton ap-
plicators, a little salt for bee stings, a small piece
of laundry soap, safety pins and a large, clean
handkerchief which can be a sling or a bandage
as needed.

Common Mishaps

Perhaps the most common mishap on a hike is
a sprained or strained ankle, or wrist. If this ac-
cident occurs and the skin is not broken, apply
cold water. The whole foot may be plunged in
and out of a cold stream for a few minutes.
Strap the ankle firmly, but not too tightly, as the
ankle will swell and circulation must not be
stopped. Do not wind the adhesive around and
around, but use a firm bandage fastened with ad-
hesive. It is best not to continue the walk if the
ankle is painful. Indeed, the injured hiker may
have to be carried in the armchair position be-
tween two hikers to the nearest highway for a
ride home. This is one reason why no less than
three people should go on a hike.

If after a fall the hiker is unable to move a
limb or is in great pain—d0 not move him! Let
one hiker remain with him, and the other, after
noting carefully the place they are in, go for help.

If the skin is scratched slightly, let it bleed a
little, then paint with iodine. If the cut is deep,
do not let it bleed too much, but apply one or
two of the sterile compresses, being careful not
to touch the clean surface with your fingers, then
bandage firmly. The hiker should rest until all
bleeding has stopped.

Blisters will come in spite of care. Do not' let
the skin break. Cover with adhesive and try to
relieve the pressure caus-
ing the blister. A wrinkled
or darned stocking may do
it, but a badly fitting shoe
is the usual cause. On a
long hike it may be neces-
sary to cut away the shoe
at the point of pressure.

October days are summoning out of doors
those, and they are legion, who find in
hiking a source of delight. In this article,
which originally appeared in Safety Edu-
cation for June, Miss Deming tells hikers
how they may be happy, comfortable and
safe when taking to the “open road”!

Talcum powder in the shoes before starting helps
to prevent this trouble.

Bee stings! A frequent uncomfortable experi-
ence, but not very serious if there are not more
than three or four stings. Make a paste by add-
ing a very few drops of water to salt and spread
on the stings. _

Snake bites: Hikers should not venture into
snake-infested country without carrying antivenin
and having some one along who knows how to
use it.

Poison ivy, poison oak or sumac is a vine or
shrub which grows abundantly in fields, woods,
along fences and walls and up trees. It has dark
green leaves in groups of three, has a greenish
flower and white waxy berries later in the season.
Every hiker should recognize this plant at once
and keep away. If he touches it accidentally,
wash the skin at once in a lather of laundry soap.
A far better preventive than the soap, is to wash
the skin before and after the hike with five per
cent iron chloride in a mixture of alcohol and
water. We know more about preventing ivy poi-
soning than formerly, and there are other good
methods.

Sunburn, especially the first burn of the sea-
son can be very painful and make one actually
sick as from a fire burn. A soft hat with a brim
may help, but the best protection is to oil the face,
neck and arms with vaseline or cold cream before
starting on a hike and returning.

The hiker’s lunch should be easy to carry, easy
to prepare, easy to digest! Sandwiches, fruit,
sweet chocolate, water, milk from home or a soft
drink may be carried. If a hot' drink is wanted,
canned soup is much easier to prepare than cocoa
or coffee and far more nourishing than coffee or
tea. On an all-day hike, carry enough food for
two lunches—a generous one at II :30 and a light
one at 3:30 and on getting home at night eat a
moderate supper. Your stomach muscles are
tired too!

The good hiker is a safe hiker. He does not
build fires and leave them smoldering, he does not
go through pasture gates or bars and leave them
open, he respects other
people’s property,he drinks
only water he knows is
pure and he comes home
at night with bones and
skin intact, refreshed by
the best and cheapest sport
in the world—hiking!

Party Suggestions for Halloween

Unconventionality is the key-
note of Hollowe'en. So your
party must be "different."

8 THE GUESTS arrive they find various decora-

A tions appropriate to the occasion that serve

a number of purposes. One of these is the
important one of matching partners.

Matching Partners

A large yellow moon is pinned on a curtain or
drapery. On it the hostess has pinned the “heart”
of every man present, these masculine hearts be-
ing black and bearing their owner’s initials in
yellow chalk. Each girl is provided with a yellow
witch. Blindfolded, each in turn goes to the moon
and pins her witch on some man’s heart or as
near some heart as she can. That heart and the
girl’s witch are then taken off the curtain and the
rest of the girls try their luck at pinning down
men’s hearts.

A large double paper pumpkin is suspended in
the doorway. Through the mouth of the pump-
kin face half as many strings are drawn as there
are people present, so that half of each string
will be on one side and half on the other. When
the time for choosing partners has arrived, each
man takes hold of a string on one side, and each
girl takes one on the other side. A signal from
the leader is given and all pull down, tearing the
pumpkin, then straighten-
ing out their strings with-
out letting go to find out
who has the other end.
The “ends” become part-
ners.

As each guest enters
the party he is given a

326

Hallowe’en—that gay and care-free time
when all formality is thrown to the winds
—will be with us soon! Here are sugges-
tions for a party in celebration of the oc-
casion taken from a bulletin issued by the
Reading, Pennsylvania, Department of
Playgrounds and Recreation.

 

Because it precedes All Saints’ Day,
the last night of October is known as
All Hallow Even, or Hallowe’en. It
has been nicknamed Nutcrack Night,
and Snapapple Night. Originally in-
spired by serious religious convic-
tions, this holiday has been progres-
sively lightened, secularized and jol-
lified until it is now the most frivol-

ous and sportive of all the year’s
festivals.

 

small piece of hard finished paper, black ink and
a blunt pen. He is told to sign his name on the
slip boldly and then fold the slip without blotting
it. This produces “ghost signatures.” When it
is time for choosing partners, the boys’ names
are given to the girls and the girls’ to the boys.
They hunt one another and become partners.

Games

Lucky Spots—The leader secretly picks out
three or four “lucky” and an equal number of
“unlucky” spots about the room. He makes a
list for his own use. He announces that when the
music starts, everyone in the room with a partner
will be requested to start moving about. When
the music stops everyone is to stop instantly
where he is. A secret lucky spot in the room will
be announced and the couple standing near it will
receive a prize. After the first lucky spot has
been found the game goes on. Everyone must
find a new partner, and the next time the music
stops an unlucky spot will be announced. The
couple standing nearest must perform a forfeit
following the game.

Suggested forfeits as follows:

Show how a dude walks when passing a yOUng
lady.

Pose as if having a pho—
tograph taken.

Blindfold two players
and tie a napkin around
the neck of each. Give
each a banana which he is
to peel and feed to his

PARTY SUGGESTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN 327

partner. Two players, blindfolded, are started
from opposite ends of the room and told to meet
and shake hands.

Seat a cOUple at a table, bring in a dish of ice
cream or other food, and two spoons tied to—
gether with a six inch string, with which they
feed each other.

Tie a wrapped piece of candy or a dried prune
in the center of a string. Two players race to
chew the string toward the center.

(This is a good game to be played either before
or after unmasking.)

Progressive Fortunes—Each guest is given a
piece of paper at the top of which he writes his

name, folding it over so that it cannot be read by
his neighbor to whom he passes his paper. When
all slips of paper have been passed to right hand
neighbors, the guests are asked to write out a
four word description of the owner’s past life,
fold it over and pass it on. Next comes a fOUr
word description of the owner’s wife, sweetheart
or husband. Next, fOUr words on what they
think of each other.’ Finally, what their futUre
will be. They are read at refreshment time, but
not by their owners

l-lallowe'en Illustrations—Provide each contest-
ant with a pencil and paper. Turn off the lights
and announce that each person is to make an il—
lustration appropriate to the Hallowe’en season.
The drawings may feature ghosts, witches, black
cats, Jack O’Lanterns, goblins and the like. In
addition to drawing a suitable illustration in the
dark each person must label his drawings. The
lights are then tUrned on and the illustrations are
put on exhibition. The one which in the judg—
ment of the grOUp is best is adjudged the winner.
The winner must tell a gruesome tale illustrated
by his particular pictUre.

Spook Saab—Players are seated in a close circle
with one vacant seat and one player “it” in the
center. The object of the game is for “it” to oc-
cupy the vacant chair. The players try to prevent
this by sliding around the circle from right to left.
This keeps the empty chair moving rapidly
around the circle. The player who permits “it”
to obtain the seat, takes his place.

Broom Relay—The group is divided into equal
files. The first person in each line is given a
broom and a small pumpkin. On the signal to
start, the first person sweeps the pumpkin up

around a given point and back to number two.
Number two does the same, and so on. The file
finishing first wins.

Witchs' Apple Stew—Divide the players into
groups of four, numbering each group 1-2—3-4.
At a given signal, Number I pares the entire
apple; Number 2 cuts it into four slices; Num-
ber 3 cuts out the core; Number 4 eats the apple
and whistles “Yankee Doodle” to show that his
group is finished.

Finding the Witch—Make a small witch by
dressing up a tiny doll, or it may be made of a
roll of cloth on which a funny face is drawn.
Players stand in a circle, facing in, hands behind
them. “It” stands in the center of the circle with
a stick. The witch is passed from one person to
the next all players making passing motions to
confuse “it.” When “it” raps on the floor with
the stick, the passing stops and he guesses who
has the witch. If the guess is correct that one
becomes “it”; if not, the passing continues and

the other guesses are made.

Jolly Witches—Tune: “Old Zip Coon,” or

“Turkey in the Straw.”

Jolly are the witches who live by the hill

Their campfire burns with a right good will

Snakes in the grasses, and frogs in the pond
Witches step forward, and the goblins turn around.

Players form double circle with partners. All
sing and march in circle to the right with the gob—-
lins on the inside. Repeat the song while boys
reverse the direction. At the end of the second
verse, each boy gets new partner and the entire
play is repeated.

Stunts

Casting For a Mote—Two boards (similar to peg
boards) should be arranged, one for the boys and
one for the girls. The same number of hooks as
the number of COUples present are screwed on
both boards, about eight inches apart. On the
boys’ board, pasted under every hook, is a collec-
tion of pretty girls cut from magazines with here
and there an old maid such as can be found on
comic valentines or cartoons. The girls’ board
holds a display of handsome yOUng men with a
sprinkling of clowns, grouches and other humor—
ous men’s heads which the comic strips can sup-
ply. The idea of the game is to have each person
toss a jar ring on the hooks to indicate the gen-
eral nature of his or her future mate. Of course
the type of head under the hook on which a par-
ticular jar ring is tossed is the indicator.

328 PARTY SUGGESTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN

Stunt Pumpkin—To the back of a small orange
colored, pumpkin shaped card, attach as many
white leaves of the same shape as there are guests.
each leaf bearing some stunt that is to be per-
formed. This is passed about from one person
to another, each tearing off the back leaf without
looking at the writing. When every player has a
leaf the leader calls on each one in turn to read
the suggested stunt and to perform it. The fol—
lowing can be used:

Impersonate a man disappointed in love.

Sing “Little Jack Horner,” making up the tune.

Stand on one foot and bow to each of the op-
posite sex present.

Hoot like an owl and bark like a dog altern-
ately until told to stop.

Recite “Mary Had a Little Lamb” meowing
like a cat after every third word.

Pantomime a man trying to keep awake in
church.

Make faces at the most dignified person present.

Say “Hallowe’en” in six different tones of
voice. =

Tell how you murdered a man.

The Witch’s Ball—Unwind a ball of yarn or
twine and tie at every two feet a paper on which is
written_a witch’s warning. Rewind, adding extra
yarn so the papers do not show. The leader tosses
the ball to some guest who unwinds the ball until
the first slip is reached, takes it out and throws
the ball to someone else. This is continued until
each person has a paper. They are then read
aloud. Warnings like the following should be
used:

Never get married on the thirty—second day of
the month.

Don’t kill yourself in the dark of the moon—
it’s fatal.

You will soon be dead—dead in love.

You will die young—at the age of eighty-three.

Don’t get too near the clock—it may strike.

It is unlucky to drown on Friday the thirteenth.

You will shine in society—if you keep your
shoes blacked.

You can climb high in life—if you use a ladder.

Don’t cultivate a taking way—your friends
may miss things.

If you must be a thief—steal kisses.

Table Decorations

Pumpkin Fruit Basket-"A large pumpkin is hol-
lowed out and a handle made of wire wrapped

with crepe paper, and thrust into the pumpkin.

A large orange ribbon bow gives the finishing
touch. The pumpkin is filled with all sorts of
brightly-hued fruits, enough for each person at
the table. Around each piece of fruit is tied an
orange or black string which leads to each per-
son’s plate. At the other end is pasted a small
cardboard pumpkin under which is attached a
fortune for each person.

Pirate Ship—A large mirror is used as the wa-
ter, with the edge concealed by autumn leaves and
grasses. The ship can be made of an oblong pan
with black sails upon which skulls and crossbones
can be painted in white. It should fly a black
flag containing the same symbol. Tiny skeletons,
which can be purchased, man this ship, and on the
bow an old witch riding a broomstick guides it.
The broomstick can be made by using a pencil
and some broom bristles which are wound about
one end. Old witches can be cut of black paper
and pasted on the pencil. The cargo is made of
objects typifying each person. A black string is
laid from each object to the witches, described
above, which stand at each place.

Refreshments

Jack-O'-Lontern Salad—Hollow out red apples,
keeping shells intact. Mix apple pulp with finely
cut celery and chopped nuts, (preferably chest-
nuts); add salad dressing; fill shells with this
mixture and top with whipped cream. Stick on
currant eyes with pieces of toothpicks, cut out a
portion of the skin, showing white beneath for
mouth.

Spook Salad—Stand upright on a ring of pine-
apple on lettuce leaves, half of a banana cut cross-
wise. Add a head of marshmallow having eyes,
nose and mouth of melted chocolate, fastening it
on with toothpicks. Run toothpicks through strips
of marshmallow, cut with sharp scissors and stick
on for extended arms. Heap little mounds of
salad dressing and whipped cream on the pine-

apple.
Little Goblins—Cut off an end of a hard boiled

.egg so it will stand upright. Cut off the other end

for a cap, scoop out the yolk, mix with chopped
pickles and salad dressing. Refill the egg and
use pieces of pickles for features. Parsley laid
over the top of the egg with the “cap” placed on
top will serve as hair. '

(Continued on page 348)

Recreation and Recovery

The social significance oi the National Recovery Adminis-
tration and its implications. For the leisure-time movement.

HE ONWARD sweep of the nation into a new
T era is best seen now in the acceptance and

operation of the National Recovery Admin-
istration, popularly known as the NRA. The im-
mediate objective of this government sponsored
NRA is to get men back
to work—back to work
on a minimum wage and
maximum hour basis.

Aside from the eco-
nomic aspect of this
means to recovery, the
social signihcance lies in
the new leisure automati-
cally made available to
millions of workers.

It is a stirring realiza-
tion that one legislative
act sets in motion a
movement to in sure
work and at the same
time to insure leisure.
The economic aspect of
the act gives opportunity
for earning a living; the
social aspect provides the
time for building a life.
The former emphasizes
minimum wages and
maximum hours; the lat-
ter sh ould emphasis
maximum life at mini-
mum cost.

Speakers and writers interpreting the NRA
have been quick to recognize the two aspects.
Marvin Hunter McIntyre, secretary to President
Roosevelt, speaking in an interview with W.
Scott Radeker from Station WWNC at Ashe-
ville, September 3, said: “The operation of the
New Deal, while it will give added employment
to millions of Americans, will also increase the
leisure time of Americans as a whole. Leisure

 

Copyright by Harris and Ewing, Washington,
from IVide IVorId Photos

MARVIN H. McINTYRE

time, rightly used, can be one of the greatest
assets in the world in the development of any
community. Leisure time directed along cultural
lines can be one of the greatest forces in the ad—
vancement of the human race.”

A recent editorial in
the New Y ark Times,
under the caption “A
Corollary of the Codes,”
stressed the provision
for recreation as being
an essential corollary of
recovery.

Several have pointed
out that a national move-
ment operated to bring
about the social objective
is already in the field
under the banner of the
National Recreation As—
sociation and has been
doing effective work for
over a quarter of a cen—
tury preparing for the
day that is now here.

The Two NRA’S

Dr. John H. Finley,
Associate Editor of the
New Y ark Times, in a
a radio address on Au—
gust 15 over a nation-
wide network of the Na-
tional Broadcasting Company, pointed out the
coincidence of the two movements having the
same initials, NRA. Dr. Finley said: “It is a
coincidence which others must have noticed that
the National Recovery Administration and the
National Recreation Association have the same
initials. They are both NRA movements in
that they both have a national construction and

(Continued on page 349)
329

Hot Weather Recreation for Adults

An effort to meet the needs of
older groups for a we" -round-

ed summer recreation program.

By CHARLES J. STOREY
New York City

leisure is still unknown even to those who

have considered the question. And it is
doubtful if much serious effort has even been
given to the creation of a well-rounded summer
recreation program for older groups. It has gen—
erally been taken for granted that adults, even in
cities, find a multitude of summer activities for
themselves and need not attend any organized
groups or classes—even if such were available.

WHAT ADULTS will do with the much heralded

The Activities

We know now, however, from the experiment
conducted at Greenwich House, that even in the
torrid evenings of this last summer fifty or sixty
men and women would attend the drawing and
painting class; forty gather together for a tap
dancing lesson; dramatic groups meet in three or
four parts of the House, and in the gymnasium a
strenuous grOUp of fencers would be found.

As may have been suspected, on account of the
locality, the art class for adults which met after~
noons and evenings three times a week grew
larger every session. The evening class being the
largest, the dining room was pressed into service
as well as one of the other rooms. One feature
of this class was the criticism by the instructor
of the paintings and sketches made outside of the
class room by the students.

The program was built up as the work pro-
gressed. As a need arose, it was met. The

330

Last summer in New York City, a rec-
reation program designed to provide
leisure time opportunities for adults
was initiated when the State Educa-
tion Department of New York au-
thorized the formation of a recrea-

tion unit at Greenwich House. Here
workers supplied by the State, using
the facilities of the House, inaugu-
rated a program the latter part of
May. Mr. Storey, who served as the
director of the program, in this
article describes the experiment.

 

evening fencing club was formed at the request
of some twenty young men who expressed a de—
sire for this sport. The evening tap dancing class
was the result of numerous requests for that form
of recreation. \Ve were willing to inaugurate new
groups as the need arose. The fencing club was
only organized in August. The adult dancing
group first met the last week of July. We were
finding opportunities. We had to because of the
meagre experience in providing summer recrea-
tion for older groups.

Music. The facilities of the Greenwich House

_ Music School at 46 Barrow Street were at our.

disposal, and the glee club met there every Tues-
day evening throughout the summer. One of the
staff, a musician. was responsible for the organi-
zation of the group and obtained music for it. A
volunteer leader, as enthusiastic as the rest of the

. club, directed them. The registration was thirty-

five adults with an average attendance of twenty-
eight. The club had its premier in August at a
musical evening.

Home Making. A home making Class for
mothers and housewives of the Village was
operated on very non-academic lines. We wanted
to make it recreational as much as possible, and
so one of the first meetings was a tea in the lovely
garden of the Music School. Pupils of the summer
school furnished a short musical program. It was
announced that we wanted each woman to turn in

HOT WEATHER RECREATION FOR ADULTS 331

her choicest receipt which would be tested before
the group with the aim of gathering them all to—
gether in a little booklet. The Greenwich Village
Cook Book, at the end of the season.

Social Evenings and Dances. All actiVitieS cen-
tered in Greenwich House but not all were held

there. Cooperation with and help for neighbor-
hood recreational agencies was one of our tenets.
The Park Department, through Mr. Mulholland,
Supervisor of Recreation, turned the pier at the
foot of Barrow Street over to Greenwich House
on Friday evenings and the Knickerbocker Dance
Orchestra of unemployed musicians furnished
lively and much appreciated music. We supplied
two or more supervisors a night and, although it
is admittedly difficult to operate free public
dances, no troubles of any kind were experienced.
From 2,000 to 3,500 young people, and older ones
too, danced once a week to the music of a really
well directed fifteen-piece dance orchestra.

On Tuesday evenings the large forty-piece con-
cert band, also of unemployed musicians, fur-
nished by the State Education Department, played
excellent music on the Barrow Street Recreation
Pier to record crowds. In August permission was
finally received from the Musicians’ Union to
have one band of thirty unemployed musicians
play in Washington Square. We received per-
mission from the Park Department and, as on the
Pier, had our own work-
ers supervise the concerts.
The dance orchestra also

As in all well-planned programs of recreation
for adults, music occupied an important place.

provided music on the roof at the Wednes-
day evening social gatherings which were held all
summer. A play was given by the dramatic group
on one of these occasions. On another evening a
radio artist gave a short program of humorous
monologues. From 250 to over 350 young pe0ple
enjoyed the dances and entertainments.

All the music, which was excellent in character
and leadership, was supplied by the music division
of the State. Education Department and the mu-
sicians were all unemployed men who had this
opportunity to receive State work relief for the
summer.

A Block Recreation Proiect. Although not
strictly concerned with adults, the block recrea-

tion work was an integral part of the program.
It was an activity outside of the House. Boys
and young men were informally organized on the
street and, where possible, games and sports were
undertaken. In June blocks on West I 3th Street,
Waverly Place, Bank Street, Washington Place
and Sullivan Street were secured as play streets.
Lines were marked on the pavement with paint
for paddle tennis courts, hop-scotch, and shuffle
board.

Unfortunately, owing to the complaints of some
residents to Greenwich House and the Police De-
partment, all but Waverly Place and Thompson
Street were forced to close bef0re the middle of
July. However, two va-
cant lots on West Hous-
ton Street near Sixth

 

Courtesy Extension Department, Milwaukee Public School:

332. HOT WEATHER RECREATION FOR ADULTS

Avenue were used as playgrounds through an
arrangement with the Crime Prevention Bureau,
which immediately asked Greenwich House to
operate it. This we did for the rest of the season,
putting on a program of small-space athletics for
boys. This included high and broad jumping,
Sprints and handball. The construction of jump-
ing pits and clearing up of the lot was done by
the boys themselves under the Supervisor of
Block Recreation and his aids. Picks. and shovels
were supplied by the Sanitation Department.
This block recreation program was designed
for more than the summer. The goal is the or-
ganization in the fall and winter of the already
organized group of boys into informal clubs. The
total attendance on the four areas of 12,05 5 for
the ten weeks should show how many unattached
boys and young men can be effectively reached by

that kind of program.

Cooperation With Other Agencies

No community work can be accomplished with-
out cooperation with other neighborhood agen-
cies. This is on the principle that adult recreation
services must be for the neighborhood and that a
successful program would utilize existing neigh-
borhood groups and facilities.

Community Councils supplied equipment for
the operation of the play streets and the vacant
lot playgrounds. This equipment included paddle
tennis and shuffie boards, balls, bats, paints and
brushes for marking play courts on the pave-
ments. \Vorking closely with the supervisor of
the Crime Prevention Bureau, the supervisor of
block recreation obtained the use of two vacant
lots on the south side of West Houston Street
from them. Through our efforts another large
plot was turned over to the Bureau by the Board
of Transportation in July. This we operated as
a playground with their cooperation.

Cordial and helpful relations with the captain
of this Police Precinct were early established.
The captain’s advice and suggestions were of
great value in our street work, and he helped us
in a number of ways including the assignment of
men at the pier concerts and dances.

The Park Department through Mr. Mulhol-
land, Supervisor of Recreation, was most helpful.
The Barrow Street Recreation Pier was turned
over to us two evenings a week with the request
that we supervise it. At the request of the Lower
\Vest Side Council of Social Agencies and our
ofhce, the Park Department had neighborhood

bulletin boards installed in four parks in the
vicinity and notices of free recreation facilities
were posted up.

When we needed the loan or donation of
masks and foils for our fencing club, extra tools
for the workshop, twenty-five girls’ swimming
suits, and other equipment, public spirited and
generous institutions and individuals were found
in the neighborhood to help us out.

Gathering Them In

A good deal of advertising of our work was
done by word of mouth, especially among the
adult group. The local weekly papers ran weekly
stories of the work and announcements of pro-
grams. Some events were advertised by posters
in stores and at the libraries.

Posters were made announcing the various
events and placed on the bulletin boards in the
neighborhood parks and Recreation Pier. An-
nouncements of the public recreation facilities in
the neighborhood were prepared by us and posted.
We were not eSpecially anxious for advertising of
our program outside of the neighborhood of
Greenwich Village. We had people, however,
who were from other parts of the city. The news
seemed to spread and some of those who attended
the activities of various groups came from as far
as the Bronx and Brooklyn. During the summer
nearly 600 persons over twenty-one years of age
registered for the adult recreation activities. Few
of these had ever visited Greenwich House

before.

The experiment at Greenwich House was car-
ried on under a plan whereby the New York
State Temporary Relief Administration allocated
to the State Education Department funds to be
used in developing an adult education program.
In addition funds were allocated to the Depart-
ment for the development of a state-wide recrea—
tional and leisure-time activities program during
the summer of 1933, the purpose of which was
two-fold: (I) to provide a “made-work” pro-
gram for large number of well-trained men and
women in urgent need of financial help, and (2)
to furnish additional facilities for tens of thou-
sands of unemployed adults and young people.
The money was expended in cooperation with
local school authorities who in several cities co-
operated with local public recreation commissions
and other public agencies in planning additional
recreation programs to meet community needs.

Man's Chief Mode of

A psychiatrist urges the im-
portance of providing means
For the physical expression
of man's mental experiences.

R. JAMES S. PLANT of the Essex County
Juvenile Clinic, a guidance clinic for chil-
dren, speaking before a group of New Jer-

sey recreation executives, stated that normally
man’s chief mode of expression is through the
motor channels of the muscle tensions. The
schools are largely suppressing this normal form
of expression through emphasizing a verbal
language of communication. School progress is
language (in the sense of “words”) progress—
and verbal language is a cumbersome, inexact,
hampering and often ludicrous mode of self—ex-
pression. The communications of people—those
conveying and requiring the greatest understand-
ing—are non—verbal. Man has for countless gen-
erations relied on the psycho-motor tensions as
his most facile and best understood means of ex-
pression. Dr. Plant illustrated the eloquence of
this “language” in reminding the group of their
close contacts with the baby, the dog or the horse
where not a word is understood. “Education
based on a verbalized language damps out this
mode of expression.” The printed word has
greatly tended to deprive us of all the richness of
our forms of expression by substituting a ver-
balized for a “psychomotor tension” form of
language. He drew a parallel illustration (to show
the substitution of symbolic for real expression)
in the game of baseball—showing how it changes
as it approaches the densely populated streets
from a game of vigorous physical expression to
one that has the same concepts but practically no
wide-flung body movements.

Dr. Plant made the interesting observation that
in his case-studies of the causes of delinquency in
children in Essex County, he could count on the
fingers of one hand those who had derived the

Expression

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Salt Lake City

There should be a wide range of expression
including creative and artistic activities

content of their delinquencies from the movies.
However, he pointed out that here again are these
same Symbolizing forces at work—the child hav-
ing very rich mental experiences without those
bodily expressions which should accompany them.
That is, the danger in the movies is that they
stimulate emotions without allowing expression
of them in physical ways. The psychological dan-
ger lies in this “splitting” of the feelings from the
bodily expressions which should accompany them.
Without saying that all people who go to the
movies are insane, Dr. Plant did point out that it
is precisely this “splitting” process which is one
of the outstanding symptoms in some of the most
serious forms of mental derangement.

The job of recreation executives, Dr. Plant
strongly emphasized, is to bring into lives that
have been largely verbalized and symbolized a
wide rang of physical expression, not necessarily
in games, but in creative activities, in art, music,
drama and crafts. Recreation as Child Guidance
Clinics are using it looks to changing the person-
alities of children (“freeing” them as it were) by
educating the psychomotor tensions to be the real
expression of the emotions and to be really inte-
grated with them.

(Continued on page 349)
333

Having Fun While They Learn

H E N T H E instructor in
W handcraft sets out to find

a suitable woodworking
project he has three tests which
every project must pass: Will the cost of materi—
als necessary for its construction be low enough
to {it a limited appropriation? Does he have the
tools and equipment required for every Operation

the project entails? Is it simple enough for the
group to execute? A few such projects will not

be difficult to find. Necktie racks, birds, toy'

wagons and bunnies for silhouetting are most
common ones available in magazines and from
craftsman supply houses. But the gamut of suit-
able material is soon run to the end, and the in-
structor is forced to dust off his Diogenes lamp
and begin the search in remote places. Eventually,
by constant vigilance over a period of a year, he
is able to collect a small number of other pro-
jects. Perhaps the reason for the scarcity lies
in the fact that the instructors do not as a rule
raise their voices above the crowd and ask the
editors to “Sing Something Simple.”

Though their voices may not yet have been
heard, their lamps, will now discover in stores

By H. J. HOBBS

Associate Editor
The Home Craftsman Magazine

where tools are sold a series of
projects adequate for playground,
camp and school. The series is
based soundly upon the know-
ledge that full size drawings are essential to the
beginner. The older method of transferring any
curved outline onto the wood before it is sawed
out was accomplished by means of graph squares
on the large original outline and enlarged graph
squares on a large piece of paper. Careful plot-
ting of the points on the larger graph would re-
sult in a fair, but in the hands of an amateur, not
a successful reproduction. With the projects de—
scribed in this article no such manoeuvers are
called for. The designs are full size. Further-
more they are printed right on the wood. There’s
no enlarging, no tracing to be done.

Materials and Tools
Scarcely any woodworking project could en-
tail the use of fewer or simpler tools. A small
hand scroll saw, a file and a hammer constitute
the tool chest, and the accessories include sand-
paper, brads and glue. The scroll saw should be
equipped with a fine blade in order to perform a

 

.554-

HAVING FUN WHILE THEY LEARN 335

The making of animals
is a project appealing
to both boys and girls

smoother, more re-
fined job and curtail
the sanding. An
auger would be help-
ful in boring a start-
ing hole in areas
calling for interior
sawing. In such
cases, of course, the
S c r o 11 saw blade
m u s t be removed
from the frame and
passed through the
starting hole before it is again clipped to the scroll
saw frame. In the absence of an auger for assist-
ance in the starting hole a nail will serve the same
end, but it is slightly less convenient to hammer
a nail through the wood then remove it.

Number 2-0 sandpaper should be used for final
sanding after all rough edges have first been filed
evenly and sanded with,a coarser paper. Num-
ber 22 brads in two sizes are necessary, 9/3” and
%”. While it is not essential to have one, a small
twist drill for starting the brad hole will prevent
any possibility of splitting the wood with the
brads. Le Page’s glue is recommended for all
joints. In gluing, spread a thin application to one
of the members of the joint, press the two mem-
bers together and move them slightly back and
forth to spread the glue to the dry member. Then
bring them to their proper position and fasten
with one or more brads as indicated on each piece
of wood by a small dot. These small dots, how-
ever, are not to be confused with whole areas of
(lots demarking waste material.

A Few Projects

The cost of materials is low. A complete set of
animals, with most of the domestic and jungle
species included and numbering thirty-two in all,
costs 25 cents. That price covers six pieces of
wood measuring 3/16” x 6” x 12”. The outlines
of the animals are printed on one side of each
piece of wood comprising the set. One animal
roughly sawed from the board by the instructor
could be designated to each child in the group, or
more than one animal if the group is small.

 

The educational value of having the child
familiarize himself with the dominant features of
the various animals can hardly be disputed.

While the making of animals suits the tempera-
ment of girls as well as boys, another project, the
A. E. F., is of special interest to boys. Besides
the fun of toying with the soldiers, the distinc-
tion between captain, lieutenant and corporal is a
piece of general information boys are interested
in having.

In order that the girls shall not feel slighted
another project—the doll bedroom furniture——
has been designed especially. This group is the
only one of the sets that require assembling of
the pieces. Each piece is keyed or numbered to
facilitate the grouping of all members of one
piece of furniture. Skill in assembling can be
obtained most quickly by completing one entire
piece such as the bed before starting a second
piece. The girl’s instinct for arranging and re-
arranging furniture is given vent in this particu—
lar set.

A final suggestion is an alphabet set—two of
them, in fact, one in large letters the other in
small characters.

As an additional source of group occupation
the various sets may be painted. Ordinary house
paint may be employed although enamel will sup-
ply a finish capable of withstanding for a longer
time the batting about every toy must expect.
Water colors are a third choice of finish.

The educational value of the subject matter of
these new projects has been mentioned, but noth-

(Continued on page 349)

Too Old
to Live

By ERNA D. BUNKE

National Recreation Association

" ECREATION P” said a su-
R perintendent of a home
for the aged, with an
amused smile,” oh, no, our peo—
ple are all old.” (At what age
should we stop having recrea—
tion?) “What do you want to
stir them up for?” said another,
“They just want to sit, and they
have earned that right.” (Do
they just want to sit, or do others want it for
them?) “We mustn’t spend any more of our
taxpayers’ money,” says this man. (But happi-
ness can cost so little.) And, “they don’t deserve
it,” he added. (How many of us do?) “Many
of our people,” wrote a superintendent, “are get-
ting blind and have other physical infirmities.”
(Isn’t that all the more reason for giving them
something else to live for?)

Here’s a Church Home. The superintendent
was gentle and friendly. One of his first re-
marks was, “I wish you could show me how to
get the men to work. The women do well, but
the men are lazy.” We talked of recreation. “Do
the men play horseshoes ?” “Oh, no!” “Do they
play croquet?” “No,” said the gentlemen with
gentle sarcasm, “they don’t‘ play croquet, or base—
ball, or football, and they don’t roller skate
either.” We talked of other things and then tried
recreation again.

“Do the men like to play checkers or chess?”
“No, they don’t play any of those things. Games
are sinful. They make for competition and com-
petition causes hatred. The Bible says, ‘\Ve should
love one another.’ ” “What do they do when they

336

 

Is it fair to keep them alive, and then to
deprive them of the very essence of living?

aren’t working?” “They read their Bibles. Every
man and woman has a Bible and they all have
nice rocking chairs on the porch.”

Here’s another institution. A woman sat on a
straight backed chair, with her arms folded. Some
one said, “Good morning, how are you this morn-
ing?” “Hm!” she replied, without looking up,
“\Vaiting to die!” There wasn’t much else for
her to do.

Here’s an institution where the program was,
“Oh, they walk around the house.”

we are developing gradually, a finer, more in-
telligent, more understanding attitude toward our
dependent aged people. Many are now being cared
for in their own homes by relatives or friends
and in neighborhoods where they are known and
where they feel at home. A large number, how-
ever, are still cared for in the 1,268 federal, state,

.church, fraternal and private institutions and in

the 2,183 almshouses throughout the country.
What happens to these people when they go into
these institutions? What are their individual
needs and desires? Must they, when they enter

TOO OLD'TO LII-'5 337

a home for the aged, fold their hands and “wait
to die ?” One man, who has been a superintendent
for fifteen years says, “Decidedly not !” Thought-
ful care of any aged group provides for their
contentment as well as for their food, clothing,
and shelter. Many men and women are in insti-
tutions for economic reasons only. They are poor,
homeless and lonely. Does it seem fair to keep
them alive, to provide them with food, warmth,
clothing, and then to take away the very essence
of living? ‘

Helping to Preserve the Joy of Life

There is an institution in one of the larger
cities which is a joy to see. “Our biggest prob-
lem,” says the woman superintendent, “is when
the men and women first come in. They have a
feeling that now they are in an old folks home,
and that it is ‘all over.’ But hundreds of them
have many fine years ahead of them if we can
change this attitude. Dr. Richard C. Cabot has
said that every person needs the blessing of God
through three channels, responsibility, recrea-
tion, affection. That’s very true in a place like
this. \Ve must make them feel they are still
needed and still wanted. We must make them
keep a place in life. and make them want to keep
it, or life for them is really over.”

Here is an illustration of the success of this
plan. A man came into the home in a sad and
bitter frame of mind. They tried to assign him
some duty, to interest him in handcraft, wood-
work, painting. He said, “No, I guess not” to
everything. One day the superintendent brought
in bushel baskets full of old toys which she
wanted to have repaired and painted. “Many
children are going to be without toys this Christ-
mas,” she said, “and if we can get these fixed,
we could use them. Will any of you help?” The
apathetic man came forward, almost eagerly, and
a few days later he ate a hurried lunch and said,
“Excuse me, I’ve got to get back to my painting.”
Not just something to fill the idle hours of an old
man’s life, but service.

They have dinner parties in this home every
month, when all the men and women whose birth-
days occur during the month are the guests of
honor. They reminisce, sing songs, make speeches
on “when I was a girl” or “when I was a young
man.” There are birthday cakes and candles,
table decorations and paper caps—all planned by
a committee of the old people themselves. What
difference if they can’t all quite hear what is be-

ing said? \Vhat difference if the ice cream is
soft, the decorations not so straight, the voices
heart breakingly weak and off tune? This is their
party! They are in the foreground, honored, peo-
ple of importance, and they love it. The cost?
Just a few cents extra for gayety.

A Board member of another institution reports
a most successful party. “A large group of elderly
women having their annual party in a fine hotel.
It was a pathetic and touching affair. They in-
terested me particularly because of their respon-
siveness. They giggled at the slightest joke, ap-
plauded vigorously, were willing to sing and
generally eager to participate.”

In one institution for Catholic women, a very
old lady, small, frail looking with snow white
hair wanted to visit a former neighbor. “May I
please go some day next week 1’” Mother Superior
had a little twinkle in her eyes. “Have you been
a good girl 1’” she asked. The other eyes twinkled
also, and she smiled and nodded. “If you’re sure
about that, I guess we can arrange to have you
go.” The little old lady clapped her hands in de-
light, as a child might. “We do have the best
times,” she said. “And they do,” added Mother
Superior. “They visit over their cup of tea, and
many people drop in, and she comes back loaded
with plants, a handkerchief, a piece of cake, a
new crochet pattern, and for days she talks about
this visit.”

Other institutions report—-

Games—Bridge, five hundred, pinochle, poker

(for matches), parchesi, pool, flinch, checkers.
dominoes, horseshoes, croquet.

Occupational Therapy — Handcraft programs,
based on the abilities and interests of the indi-
vidual, after careful studies have been made of
the vocational and avocational history of the resi-
dents. The study plus some 'imagination seems
to have developed many projects in basketry,
weaving, bead work, Indian craft, cardboard and
paper work, clay modelling, pottery, sewing, and
all forms of needle work, toy making, wood crav—
ing, whittling and many others. In some cases,
the institution has a booth at the County Fair,
where articles are exhibited and sold.

Social Entertainment—Going to concerts, plays,
movies, church parties, teas at the home of Board

members, having holiday dinners, travel talks,
Christmas and birthday gifts, strolling to the
library, visiting the museum, walking in nearby

(Continued on page 349)

Brazil’s First Play Day

ODAY, NOVEMBER 5th, has been an important

day for the Y. “7. C. A. although only a few

will realize the part the Association has
played in it. It has been the first “Play Day” ever
held in Brazil. That may not sound very im-
portant, but if you could have seen thirty-five
lmndred Brazilian school children playing games
in the old Quinta da Boa Vista (Garden of the
Beautiful View), if you could have heard their
squeals of delight, felt the happy atmosphere,
watched the yoUngsters in circles and groups play-
ing singing games and running games, captain ball
or whatnot, or a few straying away to climb up
on the big rocks arOUnd the lake or to roll down
the grassy banks in the sheer joy of living—if
you could have seen all of this, you would, I am
sure, have been as thrilled as I was!

Play days have long been a part of the play
program of the boys aucl girls of California.

I

Courtesy San I-"rancisco Recreation Commission

538

By
ANNIE GUTHRIE

This play day, with its well organized plan
which made the informal program run so
smoothly, was under the supervision of the recre-
ation teachers trained by Lois \Villiams, a mem-
ber of our staff. Miss Williams’ work was so
acceptable that this year she was ofiicially ap-
pointed head of Physical Education for the grade
schools of the Federal District of Rio de Janeiro,
with supervision over thirty teachers who are in
charge of the recreation work for fifteen thou-
sand children. In addition, Miss Williams has
had classes in the Normal School training other
teachers who will be available for work next year.
There is now a demand from the principals of
many schools for teachers who are able to do this
type of recreation work.

(Continued on page 3.50)

 

A Community Center
Camp

Where unemployed boys live out-

of doors and are 'on their own."

CKINLEY COMMUNITY CENTER, conducted
M by the Recreation Department of the New—

ark, New Jersey, Board of Education, is
carrying on an interesting experiment in the es—
tablishment of a camp for unemployed boys.
Deeply concerned over the lack of play space in
the overcrowded section of the first ward of the
city in which McKinley Playground is located,
L. A. Canarelli, director of the playground, con-
ceived the idea of the camp as a way in which the
boys of the community might have the opportun-
ity of living out-of—doors and of being “on their
own” for at least a week. Any boy sixteen years
of age or over who is a member of the community
center is eligible to attend the camp.

The camp, the first of its kind in the Newark
playground system, is located just twenty miles
outside of the city. The route is over the Orange
Mountains throngh the farming districts of Rose—
land, Livingston and Caldwell, to East Hanover
Neck. The camp is located about a half mile in
from the highway on the east bank of the Passaic
River. ‘

Camp Ricigliano, named after the president of
the McKinley Community Council, has, like most
camps, set aims and objectives. Mr. Ricigliano is
interested in the walfare of the young men of the
community and is always doing his utmost to f or--
ward their progress towards better living and
good citizenship. It is his belief that the boys, by
working out their own problems under the proper
leadership, will develop better moral and physical
standards. So far this season 238 boys have en-
joyed the privilege of spending a week or more
at the camp.

The director of the center has placed the gov—
ernment of the camp in the‘rhands of the boys.

 

A camp located on a river bank has many
alluring forms of recreation to offer.

Each boy has a definite task to perform. They
serve as kitchen police, wood choppers, water car-
riers, ground police and first aid men. An import-
ant appointment made for the season was that of
chief organizer and chef. This young man was
selected by the director because of his experience
in camp life and also in the Reforestation Corps.

The food problem was solved in the following
way: Through the principal of the school the
services of the Red Cross and the Social Service
Bureau were enlisted to supply flour. The moth-
ers and friends of the boys have taken it upon
themselves to knead the flour into dough which
is then baked into bread by one of the neighbor-
hood bakers and sent each day to the camp.
Others in the community are helping by sending
foodstuffs. Mothers are working in every pos-
sible way to aid the camp, and their efforts are
playing an important part in its success. The cost
per boy per week has proved to be $1.15, or  16
per day.

Through Lewis R. Barrett, Director of Recre—
ation of the Newark Board of Education, the
problem of athletic and social activity has been
well taken care of. Baseball, basketball, football,
boating, fishing and swimming, as well as numer-
ous quiet games, are enjoyed throughout the day.
In the evening storytelling, singing and ukulele
playing around the camp fire make up the pro-
gram. Amateur shows are often staged for the
guests. Many activities which the boys participate
in during the winter at the center also form part
of the program.

339

No Civic Boundaries for Music!

An orchestra which grew out of
the depression and which will
continue when it has passed!

IIILE AMPLE opportunity has been given the
unemployed in Norwood, Massachusetts,

to join classes in physical education, the
arts and crafts, business and cultural subjects, the
most successful offshoot of this town’s Oppor-
tunity School has been the formation of a com-
munity orchestra of thirty-live talented musicians.
The orchestra was popular from the outset. even
though its establishment was several weeks be-
hind other courses. It drew an excellent opening
enrollment and has steadily increased its ranks
since that time. So interested are these players in
the orchestra that attendance seldom varies more
than one or two.

At lirst the gI‘OLIp was confined to local resi-
dents, as were other classes, but in less than a
week the news spread to other towns, and several
non-residents pleaded for permission to join
Since the school is supported by private subscrip-
tion no objection was seen; ‘the realm of good
music has no civic boundaries.

As a result, these lovers of music compose a
Philharmonic Orchestra which is destined to be-
come a county project before another year. Re-
cently when the Boston Civic Orchestra con-
cluded its season, six of its members immediately
transferred allegiance to Norwood, where re-
hearsals continued until the end of June.

Few requirements are
demanded for admission.
A player must have senior
high school proficiency.
own his instrument. and
be faithful in attendance.
Meetings are held one
evening a week. High
school pupils are excluded
as they have their own
organizations. It was
strongly emphasized that

340

r"‘This is a time of unusually great oppor-
tunity as well as need for the cultivation
of music as a means of recreation. It is
obvious that under the crushing amount of
leisure that is on the unemployed, to say
nothing of the increasing leisure of many
workers, the need for upbuilding recrea-
tion is greater than ever and increasingly
harmful if denied. Music can at least
bring relief from worry, sustain courage
and provide people with opportunities to
do something interesting.”—A. D. Zanzig.

By THOMAS SHEEI—IAN
Norwood, Massachusetts

the Philharmonic was for adults of any age. At
present youngsters and elders are about equally
divided.

Although supported by a school for the unem-
ployed no attempt has been made to restrict mem-
bership in the orchestra, or in any class offered
those out of work. Music seems to bring its fol-
lowers to a common level. Rich and poor, em—
ployed and unemployed, old and young, profes-
sional and amateur play side by side, united in
their appreciation of a great art. Classics are
played at sight and with a sympathy which is
astonishing when one considers the diversion of
types and their brief term of acquaintance.

Since March the orchestra has played in a
junior high school classroom but if membership
continues to grow a hall will be needed. This
has already been offered by a member who has
promised that his remodeled stable, a perfect
studio, will be available whenever necessity re-
quires it.

Perhaps there might not be an orchestra at all
were it not for the fact that Norwood has as able
and competent a teacher as Professor Jean V.
Dethier, supervisor of music in the public schools.
A graduate of the University of Liege, Belgium,
Professor Dethier is a composer in his own right
and a director who has had singular success with
high 5 c h 0 ol orchestras.
\Vhen he came to Nor-
wood eight years ago, the
senior high school had a
unit of about a dozen.
Now it has thirty-five, and
a second orchestra in the
junior high school has
twenty—five. It was mainly
as a tribute to his work
that more than fifty student

(Continued on page 350)

world at Play

 

JOHN D. ROCKE-
FELLER, JR. has of-
fered the Commis-
sioners of the Pali-
sades Interstate Park about 265 acres of land on
top of the Palisades valued in excess of $5,000,-
000 on the condition that within a reasonable
time sufficient funds be obtained to construct a
parkway. The project, it is hoped, will be un-
dertaken with money borrowed under the Federal
public works plan. It is estimated it would re-
quire about $3,500,000 for labor and materials.
Governor A. Harry Moore of New Jersey in is-
suing a statement regarding the gift stated: “The
offer made by Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. of a
munificent gift to the public, through the agency
of the Commissioners of the Palisades Interstate
Park would have been notable and impressive in
the days of the country’s greatest prosperity. It
takes an additional significance at this time of
economic depression and widespread distress, in
that it opens the possibility of a contribution of
magnitude toward the government’s nation-wide
effort for recovery and relief of unemployment.”

Gift of 265 Acres
Proffered

 

GEORGE BRADEN

western representa-
tive of the National
Recreation Associa-
tion, finding himself on the same train with Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Einstein asked for an oppor-
tunity to discuss with him the problem of leisure.
Both Professor and Mrs. Einstein were cordial
and expressed much interest in the purpose of the
National Recreation Association which was stated
to them as follows:

That every child in America shall have a
chance to play;

That everybody in America, young or old,
shall have an opportunity to find the best and
most satisfying use of leisure time.

In answer to the question, “How can we in-
crease the value of leisure,” Professor Einstein
replied, “You have a wonderful out of door in
America, but it is not used enough.”

He also said, “People are losing the joy of
walking.” “More gardening would do much good
and it is practical.” '

N. R. A. Worker In-
terviews Einstein

Dr. Einstein himself likes his violin; enjoys
many short walks; loves flowers, but does not
garden; likes much reading. He finds his greatest
satisfaction in the study of the Universe.

TO combat the re-
duced budgets and
staff which are af-
fecting the recreation
activities of the city, an Advisory Recreation
Council has been formed in Detroit to assist both
public and private recreation agencies. The pur-
pose is the coordination of all recreational activi-
ties. Plans will be made to give the unemployed
outdoor recreation this summer and indoor activi»
ties next winter. The first aim of the council is
to build up a large group of volunteers who will
be trained by the Department of Recreation.
Judge Ira W. Jayne is President of the council.
Recreation Commissioner C. E. Brewer is
Secretary.

A Recreation Council
in Detroit

S O M E TIME ago
the Philadelphia Play-
grounds Association
initiated an interesting
experiment when it helped a group of older boys
and young men to organize a club in a section of
the city recognized as the most difficult from the
point of view of crime. The club is located in an
old factory building with a gymnasium on the
upper floor, and pool and billiard tables and fa-
cilties for quiet games in the basement. One hun-
dred boys became members the first month, pay-
ing«dues of 25 cents a month. Boys known not
able to pay this amount are given membership
cards so that all are on the same footing. The
group is self-governing, with a board of directors
and officers selected by the boys. Activities in-
clude informal singing and occasional neighbor-
hood dances for the success of which the boys are
given full responsibility. Ten of the patrolmen
in this particular police district are members of
the club and make it a point to visit with the boys
at the center. The boys understand that property
destroyed is to be paid for by the members. There
has been a distinct improvement in the attitude
which the boys have toward their own property

341

Philadelphia’s Club for
Older Boys

342 WORLD AT PLA V

as well as that of residents in the neighborhood.
If one of the boys gets into difficulty, the fact
that he is a member of the club usually results in
his being referred to Captain McFarland rather
than handled through the regular channels of law
enforcement.

When the Harmonica Invaded Bulgaria!—
A new joy has come into the lives of 3000 of the
poorest and most undernourished children of
Sofia, Bulgaria since the advent of the little Har-
monica Band on the playgrounds of that far away
J)alkan city. On the three playgrounds set aside
by the city, children of working mothers are given
an opportunity to take part in a playground pro-
gram in charge of leaders. Skilled physicians ex-
amine the children, many of whom are found to
have incipient tuberculosis from undernourish-
ment, poor home conditions and the poverty of
their surroundings. In the group are many chil-
dren of Russian refugees. The children have
swimming and bathing pools. They are taught
decent standards of living and are carrying into
their homes new ideas of cleanliness.

The director of the Foundation playgrounds
suggested to an American friend that band con-
certs are as fascinating to children in Bulgaria,
and that $20 would buy a lot of harmonicas. The
harmonicas, the best made in Europe, were im-
mediately forthcoming, and under the direction
of a skilled leader, the children are enthusiasti-
cally learning to play them. And now to the notes
of the harmonicas they are marching forward
with new strength and buoyancy!

Day Camps in Pittsburgh—The City Council
of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, last summer granted
the Recreation Division $5,200 for the building of
day camps in the four principal city parks. These
camps accommodated 3,200 children.

Community Centers in Durham—Last March
five community centers—three white and two
Negro— were opened in Durham, North Caro-
lina, by the City Recreation Department. The
centers were located at school buildings and the
program, which was carried on during the after-
noon and evening, was especially adapted to
adults. Each center was located in a section where
large numbers of unemployed live. Thirty-five
unemployed workers paid by Federal funds were
enrolled as leaders and teachers, special training
being provided these workers in regular classes.

The activities at each center included in addition
to gymnasium classes, music, handcraft and
drama, hiking clubs, baseball leagues, horseshoe
tournaments, nature study clubs and playground
games. A feature of one of the centers was a
twelve piece community orchestra. At this center
sixty adults were enrolled in a nature study club,
meeting regularly each week. At another center
with the cooperation of local merchants who pro-
vided the equipment and material, a cooking
school was conducted for Negro women with an
attendance of 982 during one month. Emphasis
was laid on the preparation of wholesome and in-
expensive food. Free moving picture programs
were held once a week at all of the centers.

A Song Festival in Los Angeles—After
weeks of preparation and rehearsals, hundreds of
singers enrolled in the Los Angeles, California.
civic choruses presented on June 28th a massed
chorus festival at the Greek Theater in Griffith
Park. Forty-five hundred free tickets were avail-
able for the event which was held under the
auspices of the Department of Playground and

Recreation.

A New Park For Chattanooga—Mrs. Carrie
Blanche Byrd has given to. the City of Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee, as a memorial to her hus-
band, Dr. E. H. Byrd, a Valuable tract of land of
about seven acres within the city limits. The
property will be developed for park purposes and
will provide recreation facilities for the entire
community.

A Volley Ball League For Mothers—St.
Louis, Missouri, has a unique organization known
as the St. Louis Public School Playground Moth-
ers Circle Volley Ball League. This league is
composed of teams from each playground, the
members of which are supporters and “boosters”
of that particular playground. This year there
are 29 major or senior teams and 9 minor or
junior teams in the league, a total of 38 teams.
Approximately 500 married women register each

year for participation.

The “Sportfondsenbad” At Arnhem—On
April 29th the official opening of the “Sportfon-
dsenbad” at Arnhem, Holland, took place. In ad-
dition to the mayors and other officials from a
number of cities, about 800 people were present
These for the most part were members who by

WORLD AT PLAY 343

paying a certain monthly sum will eventually be
stockholders in the swimming pool. Mrs. Esther
van Rijk-de Boer, Holland’s celebrated and well
beloved eighty year old actress, opened the pool
by swimming the first length. This was followed
by swimming demonstrations and a play staged
by the children of a swimming club. The first
opening of the movable roof was part of the cere—
mony. “. . . . A soft zooming of the motors, and
in just 130 seconds a closed pool was converted
into an open swimming bath.”

One School’s Recreation Program -- The
James Whitcomb Riley High School in South
Bend, Indiana, is carrying on an unusual program
of recreation. Through the clubs which have been
promoted about sixty projects of recreational
value are in operation varying from horseshoe
pitching to forums. Six hundred boys are in the
camp cookery club. Membership in the clubs is
not compulsory, but of the 1,800 pupils in the
school 1,700 are in the clubs which meet during
the first forty—five minute period three days a
week. The clubs are regularly organized and are
carried on by the students. The plan will be used
in all the junior and senior high .schools in the
city next year and the clubs will meet every
morning.

A Spring Festival—In a gigantic spring fes-
tival arranged by twenty-nine civic organizations
of the San Fernando Valley, residents of the
North Hollywood, California, district staged a
two day program of events at the North Holly-
wood playground on May 26th and 27th. A
hobby and flower show, exhibitions, handcraft
‘ displays, pet shows and exhibitions of art and
historical pageants, agricultural and home eco-
nomic projects were features of the festival

which also offered a program of band concerts,
dancing and motion pictures.

A New Advisory Committee—An interesting
development in connection with the West Chi-
cago Park Commissioners is the appointment of

 

New Equipment Catalogues Available—The
Fun Ful Playground Equipment Line; Swim—
ming Pool and Beach Equipment. Both issued
by Hill-Standard Company, Anderson, Indiana.
The company urges upon recreation officials the

desirability of ordering playground equipment at
an early date.

At last - SAFETY-

in a Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 

       
    
 

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-

ger from a swing seat
IF it is the now, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
N0. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact. surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber section are in-
teriorally reinforced

by spring steel.

The suspension
clevises are re-
versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-

faces are non-slip.

R e-e qui p all old
swing outfits and

all new swings.

specify this seat for ‘

 

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

344 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
i of Interest to the Recreation Worker i

   

 

MAGAZINES

Camp Life, Summer 1933.
Camp Hazards and Safeguards, by Ben Solomon.

Hygeia, July, 1933.
Safe Swims for Campers, by Phyllis Jackson.
Training for Athletics and Health, by Alfred E.

Parker.

The Rotarian, July, 1933.
For Children Must Play, by \Veaver Pangburn.

The Scout Executive, June, 1933.
Camping and the Nation’s Need, by Arthur A.

Schuck.
“\Vhat Parents Expect Camp Experiences to Ac-

complish for Their Sons,” by Walter MacPeek.
The Modern 'Trend in Camping, by K. L. Brown.

Mind and Body, May—June, 1933.
Series of Radio Pr0grams Given by Public School
Summer Playgrounds, by Grover W. Mueller.
Handcraft on Playgrounds and Recreation Centers,
by John C. Kieffer.

The Library Journal, July, 1933.
The Libraries Meet the Challenge of Leisure.

Colliers, June 24, 1933.

Play in Your Own Back Yard, by Marie Beynon‘

Ray.
The American City, July, 1933.
Neglected Tract Made Beautiful and Useful for
$3,000, by Michael M. Chudy.
A Park Planned from a Dump in Dixon Along the
Rock River.

The Library Journal, August, 1933.
This issue of the Journal contains several interesting
articles on hobbies and avocational pursuits.

Parks and Recreation, July-August, 1933.

“Neenah’s Parks and Playgrounds.”
A Simple Model Airplane.

Parks and Recreation, September, 1933. r
Recent Developments in the Milwaukee County Park
System, *by E. A. Howard.
Lake Park Deve10pment at East St. Louis, Ill.
Public Education to the Real Value of Parks and
Playgrounds, by John Woodbury Kernan.

Child Welfare, June-July, 1933.
Avgommunity Fit for Children, by Eva Whiting
hite.

PAM PHLETS

Report of the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia,
1932.

Memphis Playgrounds’ Summer Program, 1933.

The National Park Service of the United States Depart-
ment of the Interior
Issues a series of attractively illustrated pamphlets
on the national parks of the United States.

Annual Report and Review of Activities on Charleston’s

Playgrounds, Season of 1932.

For Your New Deal in Picnics
Recreation Department of Reading, Pa.

Educational Opportunities of Greater Boston for Work-
ing Men and Women, 1933-1934.

'Compiled and published by the Prospect Union Edu-

cational Exchange, 678 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Mass. Price $.50.

     

an Advisory Committee consisting of Dr. Philip
L. Seman, General Director of the Jewish Peo-
ple’s Institute, Mr. Avery Brundage, President of
the Amateur Athletic Union, BishOp Bernard 
Sheil, Mr. Walter P. Powers, and Miss Lea Tay-
lor, Head Resident of Chicago Commons. This
committee will work with the Commissioners in
making the investment of over $15,000,000 in
parks, playgrounds and held houses function

more effectively for the free time of Chicago’s
citizens.

Leisure and the Library—The May 15th issue
of The Library Journal is devoted to a discussion
of Leisure and the Library. Among the articles
appearing in this issue are “Can a Library G0
Outdoors?” by Hugh Grant Rowell, “A Book
Club and Community Interest,” by Gladys Judy,
“Recreation and the County Library,” by Edith

M. Childs, and “Books and Leisure,” by Leon J.
Richardson.

Community Centers Popular in Kansas City
—The community centers operated last year by
the Board of Education of Kansas City, Mis~
souri, on a pay cost basis created much interest,
and there was a sufficient enrollment to pay the
cost of this adult recreation project. A total of
$7,412 was paid in fees by the adults, and the
total attendance at all centers was 99,151. In ad-
dition to these pay cost centers, a large number of
meetings were held by Boy Scouts, Parent-
Teacher Associations, fathers’ clubs and similar
grOUps with an attendance of 118,409.

One Way of Raising Funds—Four musical
groups of Elgin, Illinois, the bands and orchestras
of the high school and the Edward H. Abbott
School combined on June 8th in presenting a
recital in the high school auditorium, the proceeds
of which will be used to help hnance the city
summer playgrounds. More than 250 student
musicians presented a pr0gram of classical and
semi-classical favorites. A number of local groups
cooperated with the Playground Association in
promoting the concert.

A Costume Room—The Long Beach, Cali-
fornia, Recreation Commission has completed re-
organization of its costume room which is play-
ing a large part in the recreation program. A
stock room has been created where all costumes
in active use are stored on the shelves according
to their type and serial numbers. Each time a

A NEW COMMITTEE ON LEISURE 345

A New Committee on Leisure

Grover A. ’Whalen, New York City Chairman
of the President’s Emergency Re-empIOyment
Campaign, has appointed a committee to study
and report on the proper use of the leisure ac-
cruing to millions as a result of shorter working
hours under the N. R. A. program. The mem-
bers of the Committee on Use of Leisure Time
are Raymond B. Fosdick, Chairman; Morse A.
Cartwright, American Association for Adult
Education; Professor John Erskine, Julliard
Foundation; Professor Elbert Kirtley Fretwell,
Columbia University; Howard Braucher, Na-
tional Recreation Association; Professor Henry
Overstreet of City College; Dr. John H. Finley,
associate editor of the New York Times, and
John W. Davis, past president of the American
Bar Association.

 

 

costume goes back on the shelf it is checked to
see that all pieces are attached. Costumes need-
ing repairing or cleansing are segregated.

The costumes are first reserved for the Recre-
ation Commission program and after this need
has been met they are made available to any or-
ganization or school wishing them. The last stock
taking showed that 318 organizations had used
the costumes at various times. The costumes are
sent out in wooden boxes which are numbered.
Every order is accompanied by an invoice show-
ing the costumes and number of pieces being
checked out. In this way a person borrowing
them has no difficulty in knowing just what has
been received.

A New Park For Charlotte—The City of
Charlotte, North Carolina, has accepted from
Mr. E. C. Griffith the gift of an eighteen acre
tract known as Eastover Park. This will be
added to the growing park system of the city and
develOped by relief labor.

The Pattern of Leisure

(Continued from page 314)

art: drawing or sketching or modeling, in the case
of the fine arts, and many varieties of _musical
enjoyment—the reading of music, composition, or
improvising, which is the musical equivalent of
meditation Avocation, both indoor and outdoor,
and recreation, both indoor and outdoor, unfold
in an almost unlimited variety of resources—the
avocational list including for instance. in fields
with which you are well acquainted, fine binding,

Read This Letter

“W'hen I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book —
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens
of times already. It is, indeed, the
Pool Bible.

“(85971310

“CAPT. EDw. H. MCCRAHON.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo,

Capt. McCrahon was for seven years manager of
Spa Municipal Pool and Beach, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Send for a Copy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoffman—Harris, Inc.

I|4 E. 32nd STREEI' NEW YORK CITY

 

decorative leather w01 k, illumination, and private
printing, and ranging on the outdoor side into
gardening, astronomy, dendrology, ornithology,
mycology, campanology, and many other greater
or lesser ologies.

Turning to the other half of the field, to leisure
spent not alone but with companions, the applica-
tion of the pattern yields still richer results. With-
out belittling the satisfaction of leisure spent
alone, it may still be said that most, though not
all, of those types of inactivity or activity which
give pleasure when one is alone, give still greater
pleasure in companionship.

In the case of inactivity shared with compan-
ions, thinking, for instance, becomes conversa-
tion, and reading becomes reading aloud. There
should be more of this, even in our busy days and
evenings. 3Particular pleasure comes from read-
ing in which different members of a group par-
ticipate, as in the reading of plays. I cherish the
memory, from my college days, of a series of
evenings spent by a group of us in the reading of
Browning’s The Ring and the Book, each of us
reading on one evening one of the long personal-
ized divisions of that great dramatic poem.

346 AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

Mr. Arthur H. Miller, formerly Superintendent
of Recreation, Playground and Recreation As-
sociation of Wyoming Valley, is now associated
with the Los Angeles, California, County Depart-
ment of Recreation—Camps and Playgrounds
serving as Assistant Director. He is doing some
special work on the delinquency prevention and
recreation project of the department. Mr. Miller
has been succeeded at Wilkes-Barre by Miss Ruth
Swezey, formerly Superintendent of Recreation
for York, Pennsylvania.

Miss Sylvia Weckesser is now Superintendent
of Recreation in York, Pennsylvania, succeeding
Miss Ruth Swezey.

Mr. R. W. Cammack has become Superintend-
ent of Recreation in Mount Vernon, New York,
filling the vacancy caused by the death of the
former superintendent, Harold Q. White.

George Hjelte, who for three and a half years
has served as Superintendent of Recreation under
the Recreation Commission of Westchester
County, New York, has resigned his position and
will return to Los Angeles to become Superin-
tendent, Department of Playground and Recre

ation.

Raymond E. Hoyt continues on with the De-
partment of Playground and Recreation as As-
sociate Superintendent with joint responsibility
in the general developments of the department
and with special responsibility in connection with
the Division of Construction and Maintenance.
Los Angeles has maintained an enviable reputa—

tion in recreation work.

 

-—___.___._———_________———————"‘_‘__’—_——-—————‘-——'—'——---———

In the case of activity shared, the field is limit-
less, both for indoor and for outdoor activities.
I choose one instance only: the amateur group
performance of music; and I offer you a simple
and direct statement on this point, which is not
my own but is taken from a book which, though
strangely enough “o.p.,” is one of the finest books
I know—a book so fine that if you forget all else
I have said and somehow win familiarity with
that book I shall be well content. The book is
President Charles William Eliot’s The Durable
Satisfactions of Life. In the course of his essay
on “The Happy Life” he says:

“To take part in producing harmony, as in part—sing-
ing, gives the singers an intense pleasure, which is doubt-
less partly physical and partly mental. I am told that to

 

play good music at sight, as one of several pertormers
playing different instruments, is as keen a sensuous -and
intellectual enjoyment as the world affords.”

From the point of view of a child,

“The world is so full of a number of things,
I am sure we should all be as happy as kings."

As we put away childishness, we know that things
are not merely things after all, but are phases of
life; and we know that kings are not often kings
in happiness. Yet the underlying attitude of Ste-
venson’s couplet remains right.

The creative spirit which moves through all life
is ever widening, ever ennobling the resources of
life; and it is ever more possible for us, through
acceptance of those resources, through acceptance
of that creative spirit, to attain fullness of life.

Don't: Cut: Out: Recreation While
Effecting Economy!

(Continued from page 315)
United States today is, at a minimum estimate,
some $12,000,000,000. If doubling all formal rec-
reational expenditures would cut the crime bill
by even one—tenth, it would be the best investment
which any public unit from the federal govern-
ment to the city ward is making in our day. There
is also the human factor of danger, death, suf-
fering and sorrow.
The element of adequate recreational facilities
cannot be left out of the picture in any compre-
hensive program of crime prevention.

NOTE: Used by courtesy of the New York World-
Telegram.

Los Angeles Trains for Enlarged Leisure

(Continued from page 319)
acting as general program chairman for the La-

guna Beach conclave. A total of 325 camp lead-
ers attended these conferences.

For a period of years a comprehensive program
of training for the professional paid staff of the
Los Angeles Department of Playground and Rec-
reation has been carried on under the general su—
pervision of the Supervisor of Playground and
Community Center Activities, assisted by other
staff members, particularly the Director of Wom-
en’s and Girls’ Activities and the Director of
Boys’ and Special Activities. This program has
resulted in a continuous process of improvement
in technique in the leadership of all phases of
recreational activity, to which our staff has en-
thusiastically responded. In addition to this pro-

SPECTATOR SPORTS 347

gram, the Professional Advancement Committee
of the Playground Directors’ Association has
from time to time made available to the members
of the association opportunity for training in such
subjects as public speaking and other related
fields of interest.

Although it is always very difFIcult to evaluate
results of such projects as those described above,
it is interesting to note that a total of 9,146 units
of leadership training were given in these various
institutes. Placing it in another way, approxi-
mately 3,000 individuals received an average of
three sessions of leadership training work, better
qualifying them for the direction of recreational
activities, either in a volunteer or a professional

capacity.

Spectator Sports

(Continued from page 322)
doses, according to age, individual differences and
sex. Healthful conditions are necessary, including
not only sanitation, ventilation. heat, and so on,
but also the stadium with its thousands of spec-
.tators. Only with emotional balance between play-
ers and spectators is playing beneficial. There
might better be no sports than sports under a
constant and powerful emotional stress and strain

The Spirit of the Game

If a choice between the two must be made,
playing is for all these reasons better than look-
ing on. But better still would be an educational
program where both the doing and the watching
others do were arranged to supplement each other.

Good sports activity as well as good spectator
activity can come into existence only when the
spirit of play, which is a native heritage of all
children, remains in the possession of all individ—
uals. Experiencing living as an art, seeing all of
life as an artistic expression, is to make of life a
satisfying experience. Since we get satisfaction
in life only through our feelings and emotions,
the education of the emotions is paramount. Both
the spectator way and the activity way—but of
the right kind—Hare excellent means to this end.
Finding the right kind for youth is a matter of
education for parents and teachers.

How to Produce a Play
(Continued from page 323)

Very little force is used in stage struggles, al-
though to the audience the struggle should appear
real. Each movement, push, or blow is cleverely

How to Produce a Play

0 Often it falls to the lot of one with
little technical experience to direct a
school. club or community play.

0 The purpose of a handbook just
issued by the National Recreation
Association is to make this task

easier and the results more certain.

“Play Production Made Easy" by
Mabel Foote Hobbs makes available

a method of production tried and
proved over and over again. It 0f-
fers suggestions on scenery, lighting.
costuming and make—up. and con-
tains a number of pantomimes, skits
and very short plays.

Price $5.50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEw YORK CITY

rehearsed, with the actors using a minimum of
force. The actors usually need all their breath
for the lines that follow the struggle.

A Few Hints

In rehearsing stage business, observe the fol-
lowing suggestions:

Walk lightly. The audience wants to hear your
voice, not your feet. Use a carpet or ground
cloth wherever possible.

Stand up straight. A stage decorated with
weeping willows is sad indeed.

Learn to stand still. Avoid shifting or swing-
ing the feet. When on the stage “with nothing to
do” (so often heard and never true), stand or sit
still, keep in character and react to what the other
actors are doing.

Make turns towards the audience unless fac-
ing up stage when starting the turn.

Kneel on the down—stage knee.
Stand or sit with the up-stage foot forward.

This throws the actor towards the audience and.
prevents playing to the back drop.

Avoid crossing the feet when starting to walk.
Start with the foot which is forward.

348 PARTY SUGGESTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN

 

THE PUBLISHERs’ WEEKLY

The American Book-Trade Journal

THE representative iournal of the bookselling and
publishing interests in the United States. Contains
full weekly record of American publications—books
and pamphlefs. Subscripfion $5 a year. to Canada
$7.50' foreign countries $6. Single Numbers l5c.

O The subscriptions include the three impon‘an’r
Indexes which provide an author and fier index fo all
the new books and new editions of each year—a
mosf useful finding fool for those who want special

books.

N

THE LIBRARY JOURNAL

0 The representative periodical in the field of library
work and development. Published fwice-a-mon’rh.
Subscrip’rionl $5 a year. $5.50 fo foreign counfries:
single numbers. 25 cenfs.

0 Special emphasis at all times is given to the rela-
fion of the community library to community affairs.
such as recreafion.

N

R. R. BOWKER CO.

62 WEST 45TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY

 

Make gestures and movements natural to per-
form with either hand with the up-stage hand.

Where possible, avoid “dead exits” by reserv-
ing a bit of business or a line to give just before
stepping off the stage.

The Voice

While rehearsing for lines and stage business
the actors are also working for an effective speak-
ing voice. The voice, to be effective, should be:

I. Loud enough to be heard in the last row
without shouting or straining.

Deep breathing controlled by the diaphragm
gives power to the voice.

2. Clear enough to be understood in all rows.

Poor enunciation is usually based on laziness
or carelessness. Reading aloud, concentrating on
sounding vowels, consonants and syllables, is ef—
fective in its cure.

3. Colored by the character portrayed.

The voice is colored by a person’s age, char-
acter, personality, emotion felt,. and the condi—
tions under which he is speaking. The actor colors
his voice for each part that he plays.

4. Placed properly, avoiding nasal or gutteral
tones unless part of the characterization.

The feel of correct placing is evident when say-
ing “No-no, nah-nah, nee-nee, nay-nay.” Notice
that the sound is brought forward in the mouth,
not in the throat or nose.

5. Pitched properly.

A voice pitched too low or too high is un-
pleasant, but more than that, is partly a mono-
tone and is not effective in expressing thought
or emotion.

The actor should work for power (helped by
deep breathing from the diaphragm), freedom
(relaxation of the body, throat and lower jaw),
and control (lips, teeth, cheeks, and tongue).

The director should insist on correct pronun-
ciation, good diction and correct use of the voice
The most important thing about a play is its
words. If the audience can not hear or under—
stand the actors they might as well go home and
stop wasting their time.

Rehearsing for lines, stage business and voice
requires thought, cohcentration, repetition and
hard work. The amateur director, accordingly, is
cautioned to keep his temper, his sense of humor,
and to provide the cast with some recreation or
relaxation to offset the hard work necessary.

Party Suggestions for Hallowe'en
(Continued from page 328)

Hallowe’en Faces—Make one—half of sandwich of
brown bread, the other of white, thinly sliced.
Spread the brown slice with a mixture of peanut
butter, chopped raisins and walnuts moistened
with salad dressing put on fairly thick. With
sharp knife or scissors cut out irregular and odd
shaped pieces to form holes for eyes, nose and
mouth in the white slice, and place over the brown
which shows through the openings. Trim corners
to make them round.

Witches Delight—Either make or buy mint pat-
ties. On each pattie add features of either carrots
or orange “Hallowe’en Candy.” The mouth can
be made effective if the feature is cut out with a
“washboard” cabbage cutter.

NOTE: Interesting suggestions for the observance of
Hallowe’en are to be found in a recently published book,
“Hallowe’en,” by Robert Haven Schauifler. (See page
351).

RECREATION AND RECOVERY 349

Recreation and Recovery.
(Continued from page 329)

reconstruction purpose ——-the one an economic
recovery primarily, the other a personal develop-
ing or recovering of strength and of spirit. The
second has a very definite and sequential relation-
ship to the first. The National Recovery Act will
shorten for millions the work period in the day
and week. The National Recreation Association
seeks to make possible the most beneficial use of
the longer periods of leisure which the codes have
suddenly provided. Having been devoting itself
for a quarter of a century to this very problem of
making joyous, creative and especially recreative
use of leisure time for whole communities, it is
prepared to be of service in this new era of man’s
freedom, due to his enlarged free time. He may
have lost some of his freedom in his hours of
work. He has added to his freedom in his hours
of leisure. In the planning for this new time—
this ‘New Deal’ as it is called—there should be
every possible budget economy but it must be re-
membered that because of” this very marked in-
crease in leisure there will be the greater need of
both educational and recreational services in every
community of the land.”

The recognition of this close association of the
two NRA’s presents an alluring opportunity to
recreation leaders, national and local, to render
significant service in the building of a richer life
in the new era now dawning.

Man's Chief Mode of Expression

(Continued from page 333)

Dr. Plant went further than this. He pointed
out that on this basis “Recreation” means some-
thing more than normal living for those children
it actually touches. It means a message to a world
ridden with words—a telling blow at a symbolized
world—perhaps the one philosophy that can really
combat a culture which substitutes words and
things for man’s actual physical eXpression of his
emotional hungers, triumphs and tragedies. Words
(newspapers, books, etc.), electric switches, push
buttons, machines of every sort have all tremen-
dously increased man’s conceptual life, his ideas
and feelings and at the same time have just as
markedly decreased his physical expression of
that mental content. This is all a very unhealthy

Eagle Ringer
(pa tented)

 

lDIAMOND

Official pitching horseshoes and accessories are
a necessity on every playground. Here is a
game everyone can play and enioy. Easily in-
stalled and maintained. The Diamond line in-
cludes everything from booldets of explanation
and rules to several models of official pitching
shoes. Score pads. percentage charts. carrying
cases. steel staltes and stalte holders and official
courts ready to set up—indoors or out.

Write for catalog

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 GRAND AVENUE. DULUTH. MINN. l

 

tendency and Dr. Plant looks to the recreation
group to fight it if they will see the implications
that really underlie their work.

Having Fun While They Learn

(Continued from page 335)

ing has been said of the training each child re-
ceives in executing the work. The importance of
teaching children to work deftly with their hands
is a matter of common knowledge among most
educators. It makes children more creative, more
resourceful, and teaches them to respect the work
of others.

Too Old to Live

(Continued from page 337)

parks, going for rides with friends who have cars,
a player piano, victrola, radio with loud speaker.
And they like the simple little joys of life—“a
little candy,” “a little money for tobacco,” “a
dime to buy a hair ribbon for Alice,” gardening,
raising potted flowers, having inexpensive win-
dow boxes, visiting, feeding the squirrels or

350 BRAZIL’S FIRST PLAY DAY

HALLOWE’EN GAMBOLS

0 A delightful revel by Marion Holbrook. Mephis-
t0phe1es. as host. attended by the imps. Scrunch and
Munch. entertains ghosts. goblins. witches. Jack-o’-
lanterns and other Hallowe'en folk. At the end of
the revel come’ the mortals who dance and make
merry.

Price $.l0

National Recreation Association

3l5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

pigeons, having birds or cats for pets, sitting on
benches under shady apple trees, fishing, going
for a street car ride, reading the home town
papers, baking a few cookies for supper, having
visitors, talking politics, taking walks, picking
Flowers for the tables.

Let these old people have their good food, and
warmth and comfort; let them dream their
dreams, and have their memories; but let them
also lead busy, contented, individual lives with a
vision of an active pleasant tomorrow before
them.

 

NOTE: The National Recreation Association, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York City, will be glad to give
specific detailed information on the projects mentioned.

Brazil's First Play Day
(Continued from page 338)

Not only has Miss Williams trained the teach—
ers in games, dances and so forth, but she has
also given them the theory of play and recreation
and has created in them an esprit de corps that is
remarkable among teachers here. Her own en-
thusiasm for an informal type of recreation that
will make for a love of activity and sports which
will carry over into later life and help make for
health, has been so contagious that these teachers
have become the delight of the schools.

This morning at 9 a. m. from buses, chartered
street cars and special’trains, children began pour-
ing into the beautiful Quinta da Boa Vista—boys
and girls between the ages of six and fourteen,
who came from twenty-five different schools and
also from the rural zone of the Federal District.
You can imagine the excitement of these rural
children, many of whom had never before in
their lives been in the city] It was not an exhibit;
it was an occasion for children to have a good
time and to play where there was space and

 

beauty. One wondered what Don Pedro the First
would have thought could he have seen those
groups of hundreds of children running all over
his palatial grounds—this beauty spot where he
built his palace in the days when he was Emperor
of Brazil.

Do I seem to be spending much time writing
about a play day when the world is full of serious
problems? But if you stop to realize that Bra-
zilian children have not played as most children
do; that physical education teachers have fre-
quently taught in chiffon dresses and French-
heeled shoes; that people have thought winning
is the all important thing, no matter how one
achieves the victory. that personal achievement
is of more importance than group achievement,
and that one performs for applause and not for
the joy of activity—then you will know what it
meant to have more than three thousand children
unconcerned as to whether or not there was an
audience to watch them, or'prizes or personal
glory to reward them, to see children from dif-
ferent schools playing with each other because
they loved the games, playing for the sheer joy
of play.

This is what Lois Williams has brought to
Brazil. Already other States are asking if she
may come to teach their teachers also, for what
is done in the Federal District sets a standard for
the other States of Brazil as well. Rarely does
the opportunity come to a person to influence the
life of a nation through its children! Only a very
few know that many of you in the United States
have helped to do this. This is a governmental
position and it has been better for us to loan her
services without a label on them. However, this
year the value of Miss Williams’ work has been
recognized and she has been paid a part time
salary and been accepted as a member of the Edu-
cational Staff, as very few foreigners are accepted.

No Civic Boundaries for Music

( Continued from page 340)

orchestras and bands had their Massachusetts
‘Music Festival in Norwood last year.

Meanwhile the town is curious and eager. The
signs augur well for longevity. After other de-
pression courses are gone and forgotten, Nor-
wood’s Philharmonic should continue to bring its
players and townspeople the perennial fruits of

song.

New Books on Recreation

 

l-lallowe’en

By Robert Haven Schaufiier. Dodd, Mead 8:: Company,
New York. $2.00.

R. SCHAUFFLER, who has contributed so largely~to our
M literature of holiday celebrations through his “Our
American Holidays” series, has given us in his latest
anthology of poems, stories, games and plays a generous
grab—bag of Hallowe’en suggestions containing a wealth
of program material and many delightful ideas. Teach—
ers, recreation workers and leaders of groups of many
kinds will welcome this volume.

Basket Pioneering

By Osma Palmer Couch. Orange Judd Publishing Com—
pany, Inc., New York. $1.25.

"T HE GREATEST and most useful quality of this book,”
says Dan Beard in his introduction, “is that it de-
ve10ps the vision of the reader, enabling him or her to
recognize the possibilities of the common things, thus
making him or her an artisan, an artist, yea,‘a creator 1”
In addition to the chapters which deal with round bas—
ketry materials, fiat basketry materials and flexible bas-
ketry materials and how to use them, there is a section
on novelty baskets. One of the most interesting features
of the book is the discussion of natural materials, their
gathering and preparation.

Tiro
By William A. McKeever, LL.D. School of Psychology

Press, State Capitol Station, Oklahoma City, Okla-
homa. $.60.

DR. MCKEEVER, formerly Professor of Child Welfare,
University of Kansas and the author of a number of
books on psychology, has dedicated this booklet “to the
boys and girls of all lands—of whom the author has
seen millions in the course of his national field work—-
with deep solicitude and affection.” The booklet contains
suggestions for twenty-live new games all played with
auto tires and adapted to all ages or players.

Service Leaflets

Ladies’ Home Journal. Curtis Publishing Company,
Philadelphia.

AMONG THE Service Leaflets published by the Ladies’

Home Journal are a number of special interest to
recreation workers. Some of these are Y oungster’s
Parties, When Good Fellows Get Together (events for
the social calendar and suggestions for refreshments),
Your Hand May Tell You, by Leicester K. Davis (hints

on palmistry), and Bird Houses, No. 156 of the Journal
Garden Patterns containing directions and information

for building houses for a number of different birds

($.25) .

Planning for the Small American City

By Russell Van Nest Black, in collaboration with Mary
Hedges Black. Public Administration Service, Chi-
cago, Illinois. $1.00.

Nor PRIMARILY a technical treatise on planning design,

this book is designed to give operating officials and
interested citizens the technique of making a plan and
carrying it out. It outlines the ideas which progressive
planners have worked out in the last few years to meet
new conditions caused by the automobile and our chang-
ing habits of living and working. The book is divided
into three parts: One, Ala/Bing the City Plan; Two,
What Modem Planning Offers the Small City, and
Three, Carrying Out the City Plan. Under the section on
Parks, Playgrounds, and Other Recreational Areas, the
author urges the importance of securing at once for park
purposes well located property. “Parks for the future

must .'be reserved today. This is as true ‘for the small
city as for the metr0polis.”

It 0 H
KIt 34
Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Church Rec-
reation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.
OLK SONGS, stunts, games and puzzles comprise the

contents of this, the most recent issue of the popular
Recreation Kit.

Football Plays for Boys

By Ralph Henry Barbour and La Marr Sarra. D. Ap-
pleton-Century Company, New York. $1.25.

DESIGNED PRIMARILY for the use of boys twelve to

seventeen who want to play football but for whom
no coach is available, this book presents a number of

simple and practical plays for boys and makes its direc-
tions as concrete as possible. Particularly valuable fea-
tures are the graphic diagrams which accompany each
explanation. The book closes with a section on touch
football which is recommended for all boys who through

distaste for rough action or physical disability are not
interested in playing regulation football.

Squadron Handbook of Sons of the

American Legion

National Headquarters, American Legion, Indianapolis,
Ind1ana.

HIS HANDBOOK for the Sons of the American Legion,
an organization promoted by the Legion for sons of
members, contains a suggested constitution and by-laws,
sets forth fundamentals of squadron organization, sug-
gests a ceremonial for regular meetings with initial ritu-
als, and proposes a list of activities. Official emblem

supplies and regalia may be secured from the Emblem
Division, National Headquarters, Indianapolis.

351

352 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

The National Home Library

By the National Home Library Foundation, Wash—
ington, D. C. $.15 each.

An interesting project to promote reading and to make
possible the ownership of books has been initiated by a
group known as the National Home Library Foundation
which has issued its first series of twelve books attrac-
tively bound in paper coverings at a price of only $.15
a copy. The series includes Samuel Butler’s lVay of All
Flesh; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Tales of Sherlock
Holmes; Francis T. Palgrav’s Golden Treasury; Lewis
Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland; Ralph Waldo Emer-
son’s Emerson’s Essays; W. H. HudSOu’s Green Man-
sions; Samuel L. Clemens’ Adventures of Tom Sawyer;
Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice; Robert Louis Ste—
venson’s Treasure Island;; Thomas Hardy’s Under the
Greenwood. Tree; Honore de Balzac’s Pere Goriot; and

the New Testament.

A Bibliography on Family Relationships

By Flora M. Thurston. The National Council oi
Parent Education, 60 East 42nd Street, New York.

$2.00.

This annotated bibliography has been prepared for the
use of students and professional leaders dealing with
family problems. Since so many fields—education, rec-
reation, social work and innumerable others—are all con-
cerned with the common phenomcnon, family life, the
bibliography is necessarily comprehensive covering a
wide field. Its careful classifications and groupings help
make it exceedingly valuable. The main classifications
are: “A Background Bibliography,” dealing with aSpects
of thc general problem of family relationships; “The
Bibliography of Family Relationships,” in which books
on many phases of the problem are grouped; “Fiction”
—-general books on the subject and those presenting
problems in family relationships; “Rescarch Methods,”

and “Rating Scales.”

Recreational and Forestry Uses of
Land in Massachusetts

By David Rozman. Massachusetts State College,
Amherst, Massachusetts. Free.

During the past few decades a considerable decline has
occurred in the land area under cultivation in the State
of Massachusetts. The result has been the presence of
many idle acres in various agricultural communities. This
study attempts to analyze the present condition of this
abandoned farm land and to point out the place of rec-
reational and forestry uses in developing a balanced pro-
gram of land utilization for the Commonwealth.

Folk Dances and How to Do Them

By Fannie R. Buchanan. Successful Farming, Des
Moines, Iowa. $.15.

This booklet is designed primarily for leaders of boy
and girl activities in rural districts, but the universality of
the appeal of folk dancing and the simplicity and clarity
of the descriptions given make the book useful for all.
groups. The instructions have been prepared without the
use of technical terms and the most simple version of
each dance has been selected. The dances described are
the Crested Hen; the Ribbon Dance; Green Sleeves;
the Minuet; Wind the May Pole; the Virginia Reel; the
Shoemaker’s Dance; Money Musk; Klappdans, and the
Grand March. No Music is given but the music for all
of the dances has been recorded on phonograph records,
the numbers of which are given.

Better Citizenship For Little Americans
By Edith Wilhelmina Lawson.
Company, Chicago. $.70.

A collection of little stories emphasizing carefulness,
thrift and other qualities, is presented in this book. Sug—
gestions for conduct both as a member of the home and

Beckley-Cardy

school family and as a young citizen are given. A novel
feature of the book is a short play, “The Club of Real
Americans,” which sets forth the qualities demanded for
good citizenship and shows how each contributes to com-
munal life.

Gifts to the Public Schools.

By \Villiam R. Odell, Ph. D. Published by Dr. Odell.
525 “lest 120th Street, New York City. $1.50.

Dr. Odell, who is Associate in Commercial Education,
Teachers College, Columbia University, presents in this
book the results of a study which shows that donations
of school sites and playgrounds occur more frequently
than any other typc of gift to public schools. In his study
Dr. Odell analyzes the attitude of public school adminis-
trators toward donations, the types of donations which
have been made, and the effect of large gifts upon com—
munity attitude toward the support of education and
other governmental functions. He also discusses public
school support programs of educational foundations, and
presents case studies of thirteen outstanding donations.
In the final chapter he presents his conclusions.

Seeing the U nseen.

By Robert Disraeli. The John Day Company, New
York. $2.00.

For the child interested in nature study this book will
prove fascinating. It ofiers the young reader the examin—
ation of the mysterious wonders of nature through the
lens of a microscOpe. The author has illustrated the book
with his own photo-micrographs, and he explains how the
reader may experience these hidden wonders with a mi-
croscope or magnifying glass of his own. The child may
learn that a fly really looks like; he will see the actual
shape of a grain of salt and the multiplicity of veins in a
leaf. A walk through the field or wood will become an
adventure for him—an exploration into the world through
the microscope. '

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

{OSEPH LEE, President

,OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HowARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
W'ILIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBE‘I‘T, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
TOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore. Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, W'ash.
\VILLIAM HALE HARKNEss, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY New York, N. Y.
H. McK. meon, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDwARD E. LOOHIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
W'ALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. LIILLIXEV, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, 112., Washington, D. C.
¥ C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICX M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
MRS. W'tLLrAu H. WOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

