Is Community Recreation 0 Frill?

0 THE CHILD play is a necessity. Reluctantly the child leaves his
T play even for his meals. Marbles, tops. fish hooks, are collected

—also bright colored objects. But above all else, activity—
play—is the thing.

In so far as men and women remain as alive as little children.
as normal as little children, in so far as they keep from growing old.
—activity, recreation, creative arts, are fostered. To the individual
grown old, to the civilization grown old, fear comes and the main
idea becomes possession, not activity.

Where age has come on, where the spirit of childhood has
departed, then people do not expect to live every day. Living is
then to be deferred to a later Golden Age when the individual
has retired and is so old and decrepit that he cannot play. Then
living for the community as a whole is to be deferred until the com-
munity “has torn down all its barns and built bigger ones," has
completed its skyscrapers, its concrete roads, its sewers, its hospitals,
its beautifully laid-out cemeteries; until public debts have been paid
off, until the waterfronts, priceless for living, have been all used up
for factories and docks.

 

Live young communities, like live young normal individuals.
provide for activity, for play and recreation for their citizens, now.
in the present. Read the advertisements of live cities. Parks, recrea-
tion centers, playgrounds, swimming pools, bathing beaches, art
galleries, libraries, schools—are all featured, because the community
is alive and is interested in securing live people.

Even in depression times some means are found to keep the
place attractive to children and to those who still remember their

childhood.

Community recreation is a frill—only in a dead community.

HOWARD BRAUCI-IER.

 

November, |933

 

353

.nEm:0_aE0;0 9.183 33030—113: 0;+ :03
.00» 00:51 «E E 100 600.0 =0£+00+ 005.10.; “E .30 003500.. 0 «03 0I .9:
.30.. 0+ 103E: +0: «03 3030.0 um+0_._+0 «.00.. 2;). .+000 0 000.802 c_ 9:30..
:00” 03 0+ 0+ 602030311 00:00.00». _0:0_+0Z 0.1 +0 E01305 .00.. :0031

m0 ZO_._.<wy_0m~_ +0 9.0100. 0+ +00..0+£ .0300” +1 03 ___3 .1030. +_ «0 30.0
0,: 9:30,? .0531 «E... .>__00_+m0_m:r_+c0 10.00;". 01.03 00>: 2.: 93.0 «1001+
1:0 00>_+0_0._ >005 m0 £0m0 :301 1:0 00>;— u0_.0;0 or: a: 10+:tnm 30.8

30—0 2.: (£30303 1.0201 +0 mam. +0 30—0 0.: +0 00:30.. £025 or: +<

Ecuadk 09.3300

 

354

Philadelphia Plans
a Merry Christmas

By CHARLES H. ENGLISH

Executive Secretary
Playgrounds Association

Philadelphia, Pa.

" HE 1932 CHRISTMAS toy shower is
T over. Headquarters at 2100 Chest-
nut Street was formally closed for the year
yesterday. Fifty thousand, two hundred and
eighty toys, including 2,380 dolls, were sent out
by the Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia
to provide a toy for every needy child at Christ-
mas. The toys have been sent to I 32 child-caring
agencies, such as orphanages, hospitals, day nur-
series, settlement houses and recreation centers
throughout the city.”

This statement in the Evening Ledger for De-
cember 24th announced the result of a very stren--
uous month of activity for a host of volunteers
and directors of the Playgrounds Association.

Have you any idea What it means to organize
forces to collect, recondition and deliver over
50,000 toys “good as new” to I 32 agencies scat-
tered over an area as large as Philadelphia? It is
a sizeable job and requires efficient organization
to get satisfactory results. Our experience, cover-
ing four years, has been most valuable to us. We
are glad to pass along to others information re-
garding the methods used in this worthwhile
undertaking.

Preliminary Organization

Various committees should be appointed as
early as the first of October because actual work
must begin immediately after ThankSgiving when
thoughts are turned toward Christmas. In our
case the women directors of the association take
the entire responsibility for directing this project.
Experience teaches that it is best to have co-chair-
men of each department. This divided responsi-

 

For weeks before Christmas many volunteers
are busily at work applying paint and glue.

bility makes it possible to have a chairman always
on duty and gives each chairman an alternate

day off.

Before accepting a chairmanship eaCh indi-
vidual promises to assume leadership on alternate
days and to get her Christmas shopping done be-
fore December first. In other words, it is a real,
steady task she must assume. The general chair-
man carries a heavy burden and accepts the posi-
ti0n with no misunderstanding as to its require-
ments.

Departments. The following departments
function:

Headquarters painting and repair; doll depart-
ment; sorting department; packing and shipping
department; volunteer department. '

This organization requires a chairman and two
co—chairmen for each of the five departments, or
a total of twelve executives. Each department is
responsible for its own committee members and
the development of its functions. In the pre-
liminary setup these twelve act as an executive
committee which arranges for the following or-
ganization in advance of December first.

Cooperation of the Press. In Philadelphia the
Evening Ledger assigned two reporters for the
entire period of Operation who wrote a daily ac-
count of the various activities augmented liberally
with photographs. In addition, the Ledger gave

355

356 PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS

us the use of its fleet of trucks to collect and dis-
tribute the toys, and printed posters that were
sent to the schools announcing the shower and
pick-up dates. In order to secure this service from
the Ledger the committee promised to ask only
that paper to cooperate With it. During our four
years of experience not once did the Ledger take
credit for its share in the work. This agreement
was worked out in the beginning at the insistence
of the committee. We admit such an arrangement
is not always possible elsewhere but it is worth
the effort. The Ledger gained tremendous “good
will” from its reading public. Without the paper’s
aid it is doubtful that the shower could be such a
large—scale success as it has become.

Cooperation of School Authorities. The major
source of supply of discarded toys is the toy
showers held in the schools on scheduled days.
The superintendent of public schools, superin-
tendent of parochial schools and all the headmas-
ters of private schools have given enthusiastic
support to the movement. We have found the ele-
mentary and unior high schools the best field for
collections. Senior high schools through their
service clubs usually desire to carry on their own
work of reconditioning toys. The executives of
the school systems have worked out a collection
schedule according to districts and have sent to
the principals a message granting authority to
engage in this project. Instructions are issued as
to assembly appeals and directions given to have
the toys wrapped securely
and placed in cartons for
safe cartage. Attractive pos-
ters are sent to be placed
upon bulletin boards, with
the Playgrounds Association
name mentioned as the or-
ganization in charge. The
schedules of pick-ups are
then forwarded in triplicate
to the Ledger for its truck
drivers. The principals are
instructed to telephone the
Playgrounds Association if
they have more than one

In another department a corp
of workers is equally busy re-

pairing and dressing the hun
dreds of dolls contributed.

truck load so that additional orders for truck
service can be arranged.

Preparation of Lists. A list of all child—caring
agencies is prepared for the general committee
which sends a letter to the executives in charge
telling them of our plans. Included in the letter
is a questionnaire and requisition for toys. Each
agency is requested to give us the number of boys
and of girls in each of the following age groups:
3—6; 6—9; 9—12. They are also asked if they
can utilize large toys such as rocking horses, play
houses, bicycles and large mechanical toys, to be
used at the institution by all children playing at
the center. The following important statement is
made: “This is a large cooperative undertaking.
You expect us to supply you with toys, we expect
you to supply us with volunteers. Please indicate
the number and the dates when these volunteers
will appear at headquarters for work. Volun-
teers will supply their own smocks, gloves, etc.
Those who supply regular volunteers will be given
preference in filling orders.” In almost every case
the agency is glad to send volunteers. Some
special cases as hospitals find it difficult. We ask
not only for members of staff but more especially
for board members, and we receive a fairly good
response.

Toy Shower Headquarters. Make a survey of
vacant store buildings. If possible secure such a

building in the heart of the shopping district. The
space for our operation required a minimum of

 

PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS 357

10,000 square feet. The ad-
vantage of a central place
as a means of attracting at—
tention is obvious. Keep in
mind the requirements of
such a building:

(a) Good window Space

(b) Minor repairs and painting

(c) Sorting and packing

(d) Doll department and fumi-
gation

(e) Back entrance on street for
loading and unloading

We have been able to secure
the use of such buildings
without cost, including light,

A valuable outgrowth of the Christmas
Shower is a lending doll library. More
than 200 dolls left over from the 1932
Shower were put into circulation last
summer on three playgrounds. No doll
is dressed, the assumption being that
the borrower will remedy this lack! On
Friday (“Doll’s Day”) a child registers
for a doll. If on the next Friday she
shows she has taken good care of her
doll, dressed it, or tried to, and kept it
in good condition, she may have a
week’s renewal. This process may go on
until the end of the season when she
will have purchased the doll by her care
of it. Dolls not well cared for must be
returned to the library where they are
fumigated and put back into circulation.

Inner tubes to be used to
“string” arms and legs of
dolls. (Strips of this rubber
save buying very expensive
rubber cord.)

Gallons of quick drying
enamel paint and brushes

Tools suitable for repair
work

Chairs and tables from
churches, lodges or under-
takers

Lumber for shelving and
work tables

For the doll department

heat and janitor service. In

making up membership of

your committee it is well to keep in mind the
selection of a person whose connections can
secure such buildings.

The Receiving, Sorting and Repair Department.
Where nearly 150,000 toys are collected, as in

our case, it becomes necessary to arrange for a
major receiving, sorting and repair department in
a location other than headquarters. For the past
two years the Shelter for Homeless Men has been
used for this purpose. Here sixty men daily have
done the major job just described. If the shelter
were not in operation we should turn to one of
the missions or Salvation Army for the men, us—
ing some factory space for operations. In many
cases Boy and Girl Scouts could be asked to co-
operate.

The Indispensable Mechanic. The next step is
to secure an all-around mechanic. we had one as—

signed to headquarters and one at the Shelter.
These men took charge of all mechanical details
including the direction of those volunteers en-
gaged in mechanical work. These were the only
two employed persons in the entire organization.
We had many mechanically trained volunteers,
one fifteen years in the business of making toys.

Donations. The following donations should be
requested:
Disinfectants

Cartons (Ask department stores to send in
November all sizes of cartons, chiefly large ones,
to be used in packing toys for shipments. They
will gladly donate in November but as Christmas
approaches they will need them for their' own use.
Store them away in “knock-down” form.)

Wrapping paper, string, piles of old news—
papers

the following supplies are
necessary:
Special oil paint for faces, arms and legs
Special brushes
A plentiful supply of waste rags
Electric sewing machines
Cleaning material for doll faces
Remnants of material for dresses
Old light-colored silk and rayon underwear for
doll stockings
Practically everything listed we secured as
donations.

Arrange at the end of the season to store all
donated material that can be used again. Such
items as chairs and sewing machines are, of
course, borrowed only for the month. If the
donor cannot deliver then we ask the Ledger
trucks to do the work.

After the first year the doll department realized
how difficult it was to wash and repair the clothes
usually on the dolls when they are received so
that they would be attractive to the children who
received them from us at Christmas. So during
the spring, summer and fall hundreds of women
received from the doll committee patterns cut
from ordinary wrapping paper of three different
sizes of romper dresses with the suggestion that
these dresses be made up in advance of the open-
ing of the doll department. These dresses are
made from remnants of new dress material. The
most popular material is that carrying figures of
animals, etc. Individual tastes are permitted as
long as they conform to size. Over 1,800 new
dresses were on hand at the opening of the doll
department for the season of 1932. Volunteers
who did the work in the summer of 1932 at re—
sorts or during odd moments tell us it was “great

fun.”

358 PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS

During the summer of 1933 the doll committee
sent out bloomer dress patterns to over 200
women. Return cards received in the summer in-
dicate that 1,500 dresses are now being made.
This wise planning in advance on the part of Mrs.
Frank A. Myers, the chairman, makes it possible
to keep well ahead of the game during the rush
season in December This year students from
two local art schools have promised to paint
faces.

Volunteers. If you are centrally located,
through the window display and newspaper ac-
counts you will find that many people will drop
in for an hour between shopping excursions. We
always have work to be done in our painting de-
partment for those who like to brighten up the
toys. The doll department is always glad to have
as many as will come. .Not all women “just love
to work with dolls.” If this is the case they are
given other things to do. On the other hand,
when a woman does enjoy working with dolls she
is an ardent worker. Some of them work daily,
long hours and for a full month. The chairman
often has to set goals to be reached because these
workers become so enthralled that they spend too
much time on one doll. One suspects that many
elderly women welcome the opportunity to play
with dolls again with a perfect alibi! There is no

difhculty in getting a full quota of workers in this
department.

We limit the age of volunteers to over eighteen
years. Too many. Opportunities are offered for a
joyous good time with temptations to explore pre-
vent serious work by youngsters. Daily accounts
in the Ledger of those who are giving their serv-
ices help to bring in others. Indeed one is often
suprised to learn in the daily papers the types of
workers to be found in various departments.
There are men and women of social standing, in-
dividuals of interesting accomplishments, and
others desirous of giving of themselves to help
make unfortUnates happy. It is an interesting
cross-section of a great city’s people.

For a period of two weeks a radio broadcast is
made, the different chairmen serving as speakers.
Last year a plan to have a broadcast at headquar—
ters to tell what was going on was worked out.

The final preliminary to actual operation is the
work of the mechanics in preparing headquarters
and the major repairing departments for proper
use. Usually it takes from a week to ten days.
Shelves, many dcep ones, are required to hold the
toys. Low tables to hold the cartons for sorting
and packing are built at the right height (18
inches) to save the worker’s back. Tables are ar-
ranged for workers, work benches for mechanics.

 

PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS 359

The fumigation room must be made air tight. If
headquarters is in one large room, the rear of the
room may be partitioned off and sealed up. Seals
at the doors and windows are broken after each
operation.

Signs are put up in windows. We had an artist
prepare a frieze on paper, the subject being “The
March of the Toys.” This, put along the walls of
headquarters, makes a splendid motif for the
project.

With these preliminaries completed, you are
now ready for the first day of collections.

At the Shelter

While the papers have announced the opening
of the toy shower and the school children have
made their donations in District I, there is little
activity at headquar-
ters downtown. The
committee has made
all arrangements and
is waiting for the men
at the Shelter to send
down the first load.
At the Shelter load
after load is arriving.
Men begin immedi-
ately to sort in boxes
and bins in the fol-
lowing divisions:
dolls, small iron toys.
large iron toys, small
wooden, large wood—
en, books, games, mu-
sical toys, toys beyond
repair and new toys
that need no attention. Parts are saved from toys
so badly broken that they cannot be repaired to
fix up others of similar make. Almost immedi-
ately the repair and paint crews are at work. Men
assigned to games are inspecting them to see that
each is complete. In less than an hour sixty men
are presenting a scene that is often pictured of
Santa’s Work Shop. and these homeless men
chosen from the ranks at the Shelter for their
abilities love this opportunity to work for such a
cause. The “job master” informs us they will
fight for the assignment. He said one day: “This
is a great thing for us. Before and during the
holiday when the world takes on a happy and
merry mood, we find it very difficult to keep our
men from becoming more unhappy than they are.
This is a fine outlet.”

 

Courtesy Houston, Texas, Deoartment of Recreation

A iiirrrg. $119111; (Hhriatmaa!

The following morning loads of toys are sent
down to headquarters. Se’veral boxes of small
toys that are repaired but not painted are also
sent down to give volunteer workers at head-
quarters something to work on.’ From the second
day of operation headquarters downtown receives
daily loads of toys from the Shelter up‘ to De-
cember 23rd.

At Headquarters

What is happening at headquarters?

The first load and all succeeding loads of toys‘,
as well as toys brought into headquarters by in-
dividuals, are piled up in the fumigation room;
No one except the mechanic at headquarters
handles toys until they are fumigated. The can-
dles are set each night and the toys are removed

to sorting space the

next morning. We
cannot emphasize too
' strongly the necessity
of proper fumigation.
To neglect this is to
run counter to all gen-
eral community health
rules, and those who
do not follow the reg-
ulations as required
by the health authori-
ties should be asked
not to engage in this
type of community
project. General reg-
ulations in our city, at
least, call for a two

ounce candle per 1,000
cubic feet. To be on the safe side last year we
used four two ounce candles per 1,000 cubic feet
per fumigation per night. We were perhaps ex-
travagant, but the donor of the candles asked us
to do so. On several occasions we publish in the
Ledger the fact that all toys are properly fumi-
gated. No one in all the four years during which
nearly 200,000 toys have been sent out has ques—
tioned the committee as to the health factor in
using discarded toys Because of published state—
ments regarding our cautions we have doubtless
forestalled any public criticism.

Santa in Action

In our large store window Santa works away
all day long painting toys. He has a great time
talking in sign language with the hundreds of

360 PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS

children who stop to see him. In the window
space are grouped all kinds of toys. One space is
devoted to a “before and after,” showing two
toys of the same make, one “fixed up,” the other
a pretty bad wreck. There are signs telling the
public that we want their discarded toys and that
we need volunteers. One very important sign
reads : “Toys are distributed to child-caring agen-
cies—no toys are given to individuals.” We had
to make that rule. 'It is heart-breaking to be
forced to turn dOWn worthy cases, but if we let
down the bars we should be in trouble at once
and the police would be required to keep order in
lines of those who would come for the toys. We
should be guilty, too, of disorganizing the work
of existing agencies and should have no way of
checking upon duplications. It is often said to
such inquiries: “We are in the wholesale busi-
ness and not retail.” Letters begin to follow after
the daily stories appear in the Ledger. These are
promptly mailed to the Christmas Exchange
where they are cleared to different agencies.

The Sorting Committee Starts Work

Now the committee on sorting can begin its
work. Over shelves you will find such signs as:
“Small children up to 6 years.” “Boys 9 to 12,
active games,” “Girls 6 to 9, inactive games.”
Active, inactive and educational (books, etc.) are
the general classifications. The sorting commit-
tee is especially trained. It must make the right
classification even though it has actually two or
three thousand different types of toys to sort.
After days of classification the work is done more
or less mechanically. Books are sorted out ac-
cording to age capacities. This committee stays
on the job until all the toys of that day’s ship-
ment have been properly placed.

The Distribution Committee Is On the Job!

The following day the committee on deliveries
or packing is on hand. Here again trained work-
ers are needed. From the agency requisitions an
order slip is made. These requests are for a
definite number of children of certain ages and
sex whom the committee must have in mind when
packing. Then there are other matters to be con-
sidered—the types of institutions, whether hos-
pital, feebled-minded, orphan homes. Toys sent to
an orphanage must be selected so that no one child
will receive a toy “better, bigger than mine.”
What kind of toys would you send to the feeble-

minded? Racial characteristics are also a factor.
This committee has a vital task.

Packing starts on the fourth or fifth day of
operation, and shipping to the agencies begins not
later than the sixth of December. These two im-
portant committees work on alternate days until
toward the final rush when they merge into one
hurried, almost frantic, single committee! Mean-
while each day witnesses volunteers at work
painting toys at long tables, having a grand time
dabbing on bright colors. As the days pass an
ever increasing number of individuals come in
the front door leaving bundles of toys and dona—
tions of cash. There they meet a fine type of
reporter from the Ledger who not only thanks
them for their donation but secures their names
and addresses which appear in the daily story the
next day. Toys received at the door are repaired
and painted (after fumigation) at headquarters.

The Doll Department At Work

And now we visit another beehive—the doll
department. If possible this department should
have a room by itself for two reasons: (I) It
needs a great deal of space; (2) It must provide
opportunity for the people who cannot work with
paint because of its effect on them.

Activities in the doll department are divided
into the following divisions:

Sorting, where clothes are removed and the
doll is classified

Cleaning, where faces, legs and arms are
cleaned and wigs removed for hygenic reasons

Repair, where holes in heads are filled with
plastic wood, legs and arms restrung

Painting, where a group of artists paint faces
and paint on hair, etc.

Sewing, where dresses and stockings are made

Dressing and packing division

This department never receives enough dolls
to fill the demands and its work is never finished
At the close of the season useful parts, dress
material and dolls are stored away until the com-
mittee is again called into action. Artists are re-
cruited from art schools and individuals who have
the special skill required in this work are called
upon. To send out over 2,500 dolls as good as
new is a tremendous task.

Important Factors

One of the reasons why this undertaking moves
along like a well-running machine is because of
the work of the volunteer committee. If each of

PHILADELPHIA PLANS A MERRY CHRISTMAS 361

the I 32 agencies agreed to send an average of
from eight to ten volunteers, it would mean a
total of from 800 to 1,000 workers during the
month of December. To check up daily on those
who appear for work, to call agencies who are
delinquent and to build up the numbers who will
be on hand during the final rush, the week pre-
ceding Christmas, the very week when it is most
difficult to secure volunteers, is the man-sized ob
of this committee.

The Ledger stories occasionally urge donations
of money to the work. Proper recognition of
those who make this kind of donation helps to
stimulate others. We have a bachelors’ club
which any single man may join by contributing a
dollar or more. Our largest individual contribu-
tion was $75 in 1931. Last year $40 was con-
tributed by a banker. We always receive several
hundred dollars to help in the expenses.

The general chairman is a busy woman, and
she must be in robust health to stand the strain!
Her daily use of diplomacy, her patience and en-
thusiasm must be evident all the time. It is she
who sets the pace and keeps the ship on an even
keel. Around the luncheon table each day her
executive committee goes over the details and
plans of operation. The whole spirit is one of a
great game to be played on a definite time
schedule, with the most gratifying of all rewards
at the conclusion.

On December 23rd

At the close of the day, with the last shipment
gone, a weary but happy group of workers face
one another and smile. As one chairman put it:
“Since I became a part of the toy shower my
Christmas has taken on a new meaning. When I
wake up on Christmas morning I immediately
vision 50,000 children happy over the toys we
sent them. My small share in this happiness
creates a spirit for the day that I have never
known before.” She expressed the thoughts of
all the members.

During the day the executive committee has
found time to have a party for the men at the
Shelter. These men received gifts and tobacco
and were made to feel how important their work
was in the success of the project.

The day before Christmas is “clean-up” day.
All odds and ends are gathered up and sent to the
Goodwill Industries who make good use of them.
Shipments are made to our storage of materials
to be used another year.

The executive secretary of the association has
been so busy during this exciting month that he
had .an excellent alibi for not purchasing Christ-
mas gifts!

Soon after the holidays the executive commit-
tee is called by the chairman. While everything
is still vividly in mind they discuss such prob-
lems as———“What mistakes did we make?” “How
can we improve our operation for another year?”
Letters of appreciation are sent out for donations
and special services. Plans and policies are
formulated for the next big venture.

Some Important Results

Four years ago a committee of the association
made a survey of the recreational needs of the
child-caring agencies. In most cases the superin—
tendent welcomed the committee with the re-
mark, “Oh, yes, your association is the one that
sent us the lovely toys at Christmas.” Later a
year-round worker was employed as Director of
Play in Institutions by the Association to follow
up the outline of work to be done as a result of
the committee’s findings and recommendations.
The toy shower helped to establish cordial and
sympathetic relationships with the executives of
these institutions.

Our association through the medium of the toy
shower becomes better known to thousands of
school children and adult volunteers. They know
to whom they may come for help in the play and
recreation work of the city.

The best result of all is the service rendered to
the agencies. At Christmas, with curtailed bud-
gets, these organizations faced the problem of no
toys. For years past they have always made good
with their young friends. To fail them now at
the time they need help most would be tragic. Our
toy shower, organized at the beginning of the de-
pression, has saved the day for them. We need
not mention the joy and happiness given the
children.

Finally, it is a splendid project for the board
of directors—a project which they can do in a
magnificent way themselves. The success earned
is also an earned individual and collective achieve-
ment. It is good practice for a board of direct-
ors to take a direct hand in the affairs for which
they are responsible, to do something besides
merely attending board meetings and hearing the
accomplishments of their employed staff.

Yes, indeed, from every point of view a toy
shower is an “A No. I” recreational activity!

Athletic Standards
for Girls

What high school girls do in

athletic programs, what they
would like to do, and what
experts think they should do!

ed with the selection of girls’ ath-

letic activities for the high school
program, it is proposed that the activi-
ties selected by experts in the light of present
pupil participation and preference be taken as a
guide.”

With this underlying principle in mind, Miss
Helen L. Coops in her study of “High School
Standards in Girls Athletics in the State of Ohio”
has attempted, as far as the selection of activities
is concerned, to present data from the informa-
tion secured which contribute to the construction
of such standards and lead .to the establishing of
a list' of athletic activities recommended for high
school girls.

I! I N ESTABLISHING standards concern-

In securing data the following questions were
considered:

1. Present participation of high school girls in
athletic activities:
I. During required physical education classes
2. In program arranged by the school for
after-school hours

. 11. State preference of high school girls in ath--

letic activities according to the following

items:

I. Activities enjoyed most during the year
I930'193I

2. Activities which girls think they would
enjoy most if the opportunity offered

1le Recommendations of experts concerning the
relative value of separate athletic activities
for high school girls.

Some of the findings will be of interest.

362

 

Courtesy Memphis Recreation Department

Volley ball ranks high from the point of
view of both popularity and desirability.

I. The girls indicated baseball to be the most
popular activity in the required physical educa-
tion classes. It was checked by 77 per cent. Bas--
ketball (66 per cent) and volley ball (64 per cent)
followed close behind. These three activities were
followed by a group of eight games of low or-
ganization and individual track and held events
which averaged 40 per cent participation (dodge
ball, basketball throw, foul shooting, running
races, baseball throw, 'kick ball, high jump and
broad jump). The percentage of participation
for all activities was much higher in the city dis-
trict schools with the single exception of basket-
ball. In exempted village and county district
schools only four activities were checked by more
than 33 per cent of the girls—baseball, basketball,
volley ball and dodge ball.

In their after-school athletic program provided
by the school the three most popular activities
were basketball (32 per cent), baseball (24 per
cent) and volley ball (14 per cent). Swimming
(9 per cent) came next on the list.

“The extent of participation and the choice of
activities were not as noticeably different in the
two types of schools as it was in the required
physical education classes. Swimming and tennis
stood out in the city schools, while basketball and
foul shooting seemed to be much more popular in
the other type of schools.”

ATHLETIC STANDARDS FOR GIRLS 363

II. Findings from question No. I regarding
activities which girls enjoyed most in 1930-1931
showed basketball most popular (39 per cent).
Following in order were baseball (27 per cent),
volley ball (11 per cent) swimming (11 per cent)
and tennis (8 per cent). “With the following
four exceptions there was very little difference
in the response from girls in different types of
schools. Basketball (55 per cent) was checked by
twice the number of girls in exempted village and
county district schools. On the other hand, swim-
ming, tennis and baseball were more popular
among city district school girls.”

The question as to activities the girls “think
they would enjoy most whether they had ever
tried them or not,” brought out some interesting
answers. The first four activities significantly
chosen were tennis (26 per cent), swimming (22
per cent), horseback riding (17 per cent), and
golf (11 per cent). Following these four were
basketball (9 per cent), archery (5 per cent), and
hiking (5 per cent). “The stated choice of girls in
different types of schools is vary similar. Their
choice is most obvious and with the possible ex—
ception of basketball, the activities are all indi—
vidual and dual sports. It is interesting to note
that the activities which girls think they would
enjoy most are not at all those in which they par-
ticipate during their required physical education
classes or in the after-school program arranged
by the school. This indication tends to confirm
the point made in a recent White House Confer—
ence survey that ‘current practice in the high
school athletic program for girls has very little
relation to what girls really prefer to do.’ ”

Recommendations of Experts
III. The same list of athletic activities sub-
mitted to the girls was sent
to a committee of experts

skill; (3) Team games of low degree of skill.

Individual and Dual Sports. Experts were asked
to rank seventeen individual and dual sports in

relative order of their importance. The following
nine activities were recommended by eleven ex-
perts: swimming, tennis, hiking, golf, horseback
riding, archery, deck tennis, horseshoe pitching.
running races (dash).

The following three activities were declared of
less value by experts: basketball throw for dis-
tance, baseball throw for distance, and basketball
foul shooting.

The following five activities were judged of
least value by experts. They were condemned by
fourteen experts both because of intrinsic char—
acter and because of their relative unimportance
when compared with other activities: rifle shoot—
ing, running broad jump, hurdling races, high
jump, and standing broad jump.

Two experts suggested that badminton, bowl-
ing and skating be added to the list of individual
and dual sports.

“It is interesting to note that the first six activi—
ties selected by the Ohio experts appeared in the
same order as the first six individual and dual
sports selected by a national group of eighty—
seven experts in the recent White House Con-
ference survey. It is also significant that these
same six activities were the outstanding six first
mentioned in the list of athletic activities which
Ohio girls thought they would enjoy most if op—
portunity offered.”

Team Games of High Degree of Skill. The six
team games ranked in relative order of their im—
portance were: volley ball, baseball, field hockey,

basketball, soccer, and speedball. Two experts
advised the elimination of
field hockey and three of

in Ohio who worked with
Miss Coops on the study to
find out which activities
they would recommend for
high school girls and how
they would rank these ac-
tivities in the relative order
of their importance. For
convenience the activities
were divided into the fol.
lowing homogeneous
groups: (1) Individual and
dual sports; (2) Team
games of high degree of

Through the courtesy of Miss Helen L.
Coops of the University of Cincinnati,
we are presenting some data from a

study of “High School Standards in
Girls Athletics in the State of Ohio,”
submitted in partial fulfillment of the
requirements for the degree of Doctor
of Philosophy in the Faculty of Phi-
losophy, Columbia University. Miss
Coops’ dissertation deals with the selec-
tion of girls’ athletic activities, their or-
ganization and health considerations
and safeguards for girls. The abstracts
here deal primarily with the selection
of activities since this subject is of very
definite interest to recreation workers
in planning their programs.

speedball. Several suggested
modified rules for soccer.
The three activities which
were unanimously recom-
mended and which appeared
first in all lists denoted by
the girls themselves were

volley ball, baseball and
basketball.

Team Games of Low De-
gree of Skill. Asked to rank
ten games of this group in
relative order of their im—
portance, the experts made

364 ATHLETIC STANDARDS FOR GIRLS-

the following list': kickball, dodge ball, captain
ball, keep away, center ball, end ball, German bat
ball, Newcomb, Liberty ball and punch ball. The
following additional games were suggested: over-
take, crisscross, obstacle relays, giant basketball,
pinguard, hit pin baseball, line soccer, and bom-
bardment.

“In the Ohio survey these games appeared sig-
nificantly on but one list, that of participation
during the required physical education classes. It
may be inferred from the above information that
these are elementary games leading up to the more
highly skilled activities and involving elements of
practice for them. It may be assumed that only
in this capacity do they belong in the high school
program for girls.”

Some General Findings

A few of the general findings as they relate to
the scope and emphasis of the athletic program
for high school girls follow:

I. Concerning the variety and extent of ath—
letic participation, 57 per cent of all girls answer-
ing the research form state that~they engaged in
some form of intramUral or interscholastic com-
petition during the year. Their interest in present
activity is suggested when 75 per cent of the girls
state that they would like to keep on playing the
same athletic games when they graduate from
school.

Concerning variety and extent of athletic par-
ticipation, experts agree that: (I) The athletic
program should be varied and extensive, ranging
in number of activities in proportion to the size
of the school; and (2) Instruction and super-
vision should provide for each girl, according to
her physical ability, opportunity for participation
in a number of different types of activity in order
to ensure a wide knowledge of athletics and thus
to broaden appreciation.

Experts approve of the suggested policy of re-
quiring each girl to have knowledge of at least
two individual sports, two team games of high
degree of skill and two games of low degree of

skill.

2. Experts agree that the athletic program
should provide opportunity for special proficiency
in at least one activity selected by the girl, in
order to ensure acquisition of skill in an activity
which is judged desirable and satisfactory to her

at the time. The method of requiring evidence of
this skill must be left to the local school.

3. Leisure—time athletic activities most signifi-
cantly mentioned by girls are swimming, tennis,
hiking. horseback riding, and golf. These are the
activities which experts nationally recommend for
high school girls. Related literature indicates that
the activities which high school girls engage in
during their leisure time are apt to be the same
which they engage in after school days are past.

Experts agree that instruction and supervision
should provide for each girl, according to her
physical ability, interest in athletic activities which
can be carried on after school days are past, in
order to provide for leisure time in later life.
Experts approve of the suggestion that each girl
be required to demonstrate knowledge of at least
one activity of this type.

4. The majority of experts agree that team
games of high degree of skill, except the less
strenuous {games of baseball and volley ball,
should be limited to the third and fourth years of
high school.

“Only a few trends in physical education, based
on the data gathered for this study, can be given
here. In the first place, the trend in the type of
work offered in physical education has been for
some time, and still is. away from calisthenics and
formalized drill and toward games and free play.
Consequently, in matters of equipment this
changes the chief interest from heavy apparatus
in the gymnasimu to sufficient space and facili-
ties for games both indoor and outdoor.

“The trend in the size of classes in physical
education is toward large groups. Instructors fre~
quently stated that the size of the class caused
less concern than the size of the gymnasium or
playing field.

“Increasing interest is being shown by the
schools in the physical activities of pupils during
out-of—school hours. The objective of making
healthful recreation habitual to children, of de-
veloping desirable traits of character, and of
learning games which can be played during adult
life, has led the schools in increasing numbers to
supply playground supervision after school in the
evenings, on SatUrdays and during summers.”

Extracts from “Summary and Trends” in
Health Work and Physical Education, Bulletin,
1932, No. 17, Ofiice of Education, Washington,
D. C.

 
 

  

New Jersey - i"

.F
'-

Produces

NE WOULD expect the “Garden State” to

O produce excellent potatoes, asparagus,

strawberries and peaches. Still many of

the qualities which make for success in agricul-

ture yield success in other fields—recreational

programs as part of the emergency relief projects,
for example.

In the spring of 1932, the State Emergencv
Relief realized that food, shelter and clothing
were only part of the relief needed. While these
cared for the physical, they did not adequately
meet the need for sustaining courage and hope,
two qualities very vital to health—physical as
well as mental. At that time they urged the set-
ting up of reading and quiet game rooms in cen—
ters of population, and the use of school build-
ings as neighborhood community centers, and au-
thorized that leadership might be used as work
relief from the white collar unemployed. This
resulted in a number of such shelters and centers
being opened under unemployed leadership.

In the spring of this year, New Jersey faced
serious curtailment of local recreation leadership
due to cuts in budgets which meant the closing of
play areas and reductions of programs generally.
John Colt, Director of Emergency Relief asked
the National Recreation Association to make a
hasty inquiry as to just how serious the problem
was throughout the state. On a basis of the needs

Some activities
in Bloomfield,
one of the
communities
to benefit
W "_ by the state's
I program.

 
 

   

  
  

Leadership makes possible
a program of sufficient
variety to appeal to all.

 
   

revealed, Mr. Colt authorized the securing of
resident recreation leaders with the highest edu-
cation and experience qualifications to be found
to be paid for from State Emergency Relief funds
——the maximum not to exceed $20.00—$2 5.00 per
week. The final wages paid ranged between
$60.00—$80.00 per month.

The definite accomplishments for the summer
were—«154 workers provided in nine counties and
thirty—six communities—twenty-two of which
had leadership for the first time. Some county
supervisors of leisure time programs were secured
in order that they might promote the setting up
of local recreation committees in new communi-
ties and secure leadership to be placed under
them. In municipalities where a Recreation De-
partment existed, the assistance ranged all the
way from several supervisors up to an entire play-
ground staff in one of our larger cities which had
planned to close all its playgrounds.

This program was so worthwhile in results ac-
complished that the State Administration has en-
gaged Mrs. Marjorie Geary Woodlock as Director
of Leisure Time Programs in order to develop
and carry on the winter work particularly directed
towards youth and adults. She was formerly on
the Association’s staff and Director of the Com-
munity House and Recreation Program at Dalton,

(Continued on page 392)
365

    
    
 
 

What Will We Do With Our Time?

0 FAR as I know I was the
first person in America
specifically to urge—as I

did in an address twenty years ago—that one of
the aims of education should be the preparation
for the best use of leisure time. I discovered
after I had reached this conclusion that Aristotle
had said the same thing over two thousand years
ago. Indeed he made training for leisure the chief
end of education. But he was thinking of the
small leisure class and not of the many as we are
today. I am now ready to say that the use of free
time will become the chief social problem when
the whole nation has been put to work for a
shorter day and week. And it will be a much
more difficult task of society to get people to use
their free time wisely than to labor eHiciently.

Civilization began when the pure individualists
of pre-historic ages (in the long and tedious lei-
sure between the times of spasmodic labor) prac-
ticed their crude creative arts. Then there de-
veloped a leisure class and a working class, one-
fourth having all the leisure, as in Greece, and
three-fourths all the labor. Then everybody was
set to work. But hardly was that done when it
began to be seen how fatal it was to human de-
velopment that everybody should work all the
time, and the hours of work were restricted: first
for children (that they might grow and learn the
fundamental lessons of the race), then for women
and lastly for men as well. And now civilization
is entering upon a new day with a longer after-
noon of leisure. I say afternoon for I am remem-
bering Owen Young’s

By JOHN H. FINLEY
Associate Editor, New York Times

which others must have noticed
that the National Recovery Ad-
ministration and the National
Recreation Association have the same initials.
They are both N. R. A. movements in that they
both have a national construction and reconstruc-
tion purpose—the one an economic recovery pri-
marily, the other a personal development or re-
covering of strength and of spirit. The second
has a very definite and sequential relationship to
the first. The National Recovery Act will shorten
for millions the work period in the day and week.
The National Recreation Association seeks to

niake possible the most beneficial use of the longer
 periods of leisure which the codes have suddenly

provided. Having been devoting itself for a quar-
ter of a century to this very problem of making
joyous, creative and especially recreative use of
leisure time for whole communities, it is prepared
to be of service in this new era of man’s freedom,
due to his enlarged free time. He may have lost
some of his freedom in his hours of work. He
has added to his freedom in his hours of leisure.
In the planning for this new time—this “New
Deal" as it is called—there should be every pos-
sible budget economy but it must be remembered
that because of this very marked increase in lei-
sure there will be the greater'need of both edu-
cational and recreational services in every com-
munity of the land.

Recreation and Crime Prevention

1 have been asked to speak especially about the
part that recreation has

mother’s definition of-un—
employment and leisure:
“It is the worst thing in
the world to have a man
sitting around the kitchen
stove after breakfast. It
is the nicest thing to have
him come home early in
the afternoon.”
An Interesting
Coincidence
It is a coincidence

366

This address by Dr. Finley was one of three
delivered on August fifteenth over a nation-
wide network for the National Broadcasting
Company in a series of lectures on govern-
ment sponsored by the Committee on ,Civic
Education by Radio of the National Advisory
Council on Radio in Education and the
American Political Science Association.
Under the general subject, “Reducing the
Recreation Budget,” addresses were given by
Dr. Finley, Colonel H. Edmund Bulb's and
Roy Smith Wallace. The addresses are re-
printed here by courtesy of the National
Municipal Review.

or may have in crime
prevention. But I would
rather speak of the posi-
tive side of recreation
that in its compelling in-
terest would in itself re-
duce the delinquency
budgets. The total esti-
mated cost of crime in
the United States is up-
wards of $350,000,000;
in New York City alone

WHAT WILL WE DO WITH OUR TIME?

over $50,000,000, a per capita of $7.76,
while the cost of organized recreation in
parks, playgrounds and school centers is
only 22 cents per capita. The best way to
reduce the total combined budgets of rec-
reation and crime is to increase the pro-
vision for recreation. It will show itself
in more than a commensurate cutting
down of the crime budget.' This is de-
monstrable. I regret that I have not the
time to give supporting figures.

I turn again to stress the importance
of saving to the good of the individual
and society those hours of free time sud-
denly added to the calendar of millions-—
of making them more beneficient hours
than they were as work hours.

I was brought up on a Sunday school
song which began “Work, for the night
is coming.” It seems now, by reason of
restricted hours of labor and the agoniz-
ing extent of unemployment, quite out of
date. What we need to buoy our hearts
is a song for the hours that can no longer
be filled with work-—-the hours of free or
compelled leisure——-but should none the
less be used to make life as abundant, happy, and
useful as it was for those who sang a half cen-
tury ago with ardor the song of work which en-
joined us to “work thru’ the morning hours; to
work while the dew is sparkling; to work mid
springing flowers; to work while the day grows
brighter, to work through the sunny noon; to iill
brightest hours with labor, to give every flying
minute something to keep in store; to work under
the sunset skies, to work while the last beam fad-
eth, fadeth to shine no more; and even to work,
while night is darkening, when man’s work is

9

0 er.”

A Substitute for Work

It was a joyous song whose only sad line was
“when man’s work is o’er.” The sad experience
of the last few years is that millions have had no
Opportunity to “fill brightest hours with labor.”

Substitute for the word “work” one which sug-
gests the fullest active, enjoyment of the hours
which have been released for one’s free use and
you have a song for a new day and for the “New
Deal,” as it is called. I should use the word
“play” if it still kept its original meaning, which
was to “occupy one’s self busily about a thing or
person,” to “cultivate,” to “exercise one’s self

367

 

Many cities have Found it economy to reduce
delinquency budgets by providing recreation

habitually in an action,” to “rejoice” and “be
glad.”

But “play” is not quite comprehensive enough
in its usual definition, though heaven knows, we
need even play, just play for thousands of chil-
dren who can have it only at their peril in city
streets. But the word recreation is broad enough
to include “play” in its every expression and also
many activities that are usually not thought of as
play——music, the drama, the crafts, every free
activity and especially creative activity for the
enrichment of life.

And the moral of all that we have said is that
some of this provision has to be made by the
communities. The individuals cannot do it for
themselves. National provision for recreation is
an essential corollary of recovery: so now we say
with Shakespeare “Come now my Ariel bring a
corollary.”

“The idea is dawning that we must first learn
how to live. Slowly and painfully, here and
there, among the few rather than the many, a new
vision is forming of a world in which the main
objective of human effort will be free, rewarding
and joyous living.”—Wellesley College Quarterly

RedUcing the Recreation Budget

By ROY SMITH WALLACE

National Recreation Association

HE COST of carrying on public recreation work
T is not large. The total budgets for about
1,000 cities as reported yearly to the Na-
tional Recreation Association indicate a total ex-
penditure in 1930, the peak year, of $38,500,000;
and in 1932, of $28,000,000. Please note that the
1932 expenditures represent a 28 per cent cut
from the maximum expenditures attained in 1930.
These expenditures represent a very small pro-
portion of the total budget of the cities of the
country. For instance, in New York City, the
total expenditure of over $1,600,000 represents a
little over 1-5 or 1 per cent of the total budget
of the city for 1932. Large savings in govern-
mental expenditure obviously cannot be made in
such insignificantly small budgets.

Per Capita Cost Low

Not only is the total cost small, the per capita
cost also is low. In New York, the public recrea-
tion work _of the park departments and of the
board of education, including the playgrounds.
athletic fields, indoor recreation centers and a rich
recreation program and serving in 1932 over
40,000,000 attendants cost only twenty-two cents
per capita of population. In other words, for the
cost of one admission to the movies, or of a half
hour of playing pool, or of a pack or two of
cigarettes, the citizens of
New York provided for

tion budgets of the country should not stand their
share of the necessary reductions. Indeed, as I
have indicated, they have already suffered a 28
per cent cut.

Budgetary Cuts

First as a method of budget reduction have
been cuts in salaries which have ranged from 5
to 20 per cent. Then there has been an almost
complete elimination of new capital developments,
a retardation to some extent replaced by the use
of unemployed labor on work-relief projects in
the recreation field.

Next we must report staff reductions. chiefly
through the failure to enlarge the staff up to the
usual size for the extra playground services re-
quired in the summer, and then also through
dropping various types of special workers. In
this respect the situation in recreation is com-
parable to the situation in education, where special
teachers and special supervisors have so largely
been eliminated. In the recreation field, special
workers in story-telling, handcraft, music, drama,
and athletic activities for women and girls have
in many cases been left out entirely.

There has been also some decrease in the
amount and cost of the supplies and equipment
ordered, that is in the
number of baseballs,

themselves and their
children public recrea-
tion, indoor and outdoor.
for 365 days of the year.
Costs vary, but investi—
gation will prove that
public recreation supplies
wholesome recreation at
a lower per capita cost
than can be provided in
any other way.

All this does not mean,
however, that the recre-

368

“There are makers of budgets who classify
services such as police, fire, sanitation and
health as primarv. and recreation, education
and welfare, including allowances for parks,
planning and other activities, the results of
which are not immediately and directly visi-
ble, as secondary, and who insist that those
activities classified as secondary shall stand
the cuts. This view is a mistaken one. . . . .
If you have less public recreation you will
surely have to pay for more delinquency and
sickness. The so-called secondary services are
newer and not so well understood as those
classified as primary, but they are equally
important.”—-—Murray Seasongood, ex-Mayor
of Cincinnati, Ohio.

bats, volley balls, hand-
craft supplies, etc.
Finally there has been,
so to speak, a dilution of
service by the use of vol-
unteers and of the un—
employed to supplement
the services of a skele-
t o n i z e d professional
staff. This has been ac-
companied of course by
an increase in the num-
ber of training institutes

REDUCING THE RECREATION BUDGET 369

and other devices used to in-
crease the competence of these
inexperienced workers.

Quantity and Quality Suffer

All of these methods of budget
reduction have reduced not nec-
essarily the quantity of the recre—
ational service offered by the
communities but in most cases
the quality of the work done.

Quantity has suffered also. For
instance in 1932 there were re-
ported to the National Recreation
Association a total number of
6,990 playgrounds in operation.
This is a decrease of nearly 700
from the 7,685 in operation in
1931. There were only 1,629
athletic fields in 1932, contrasted
with the 1,834 of 1931; there
were 4,161 baseball fields as con-
trasted with the 4,396 of 1931
On the other hand there were a
large number of indoor recrea-
tion centers open, namely 2,648
in 1932 as contrasted with 2,536
in 1931. Many of this larger
number in 1932 were however,
Open for fewer afternoons and
evenings per week.

  

7““.

’4

.  15...}; 'JL‘r-JWWIF'V-r-I’ _. 5— ‘
. . _ ' r- .
. ' l".- l,“

'4 I Qu- -—.. .
.1": ’.'._ -

Increased Need for Service

It should be borne in mind too
that the present depression which has made it so
imperative to cut budgets has greatly increased
the need for recreational services. Men, women
and children have fewer dollars to spend on rec-
reation at the movies, at summer camps, at vaca—
tion resorts, in pleasure touring, etc., and they
turn more than ever before to the free public
recreational facilities. Furthermore there is a
tremendously urgent need 011 the part of unem-
ployed adults for something worthwhile to do
with their enforced leisure. Idleness can be and
is thoroughly demoralizing and hundreds of
thousands of the unemployed, especially the
young adults, have taken advantage of the public
recreational facilities to keep up their physical
fitness and their morale.

There has been therefore a general increase in
the services rendered by the public recreation de-
partments. The playground attendances for in—

    

‘~ WILL REMAIN
CLOSED FOR

f
wry/'ng

Courtesy of the Cleveland New:

     
     
   

One of the features of a campaign which result-
ed in restoring the entire playground budget.

stance in 1929 were 159,000,000 as contrasted
with 236,000,000 in 1932, an increase of 47 per
cent. In the recreation centers in 1929 there were
about 24,000,000 attendances whereas in 1932 the
attendances numbered 34,000,000, an increase of
about 41 per cent. The attendances at the sum—
mer playgrounds in 1932 showed an increase per
playground of 45 per cent over 1931. Attend-
ances at indoor swimming pools doubled between
1931 and 1932.

All recreational leaders have reported a very
heavy increase, for both the playgrounds and the
recreation centers, in the proportion of young
adults—mostly unemployed—in attendance at
these centers.

Public Responsibility

It would seem desirable and important that cuts

in recreation budgets, at this time when the need

(Continued on page 392)

Play and Keep Mentally \X/ell

By H. EDMUND BULLIS

Executive Officer
National Committee on Mental Hygiene

A prescription for all who
would safeguard themselves
against mental illnesses

ODAY IN THE hOSpitals of the United States
T there are more patients suffering from men-
tal diseases than from all other diseases com-
bined. In 1930, according to the last annual
enumeration of the Federal Census Bureau, there
were nearly 400,000 patients under care in our
state mental hospitals alone, at a total cost to our
taxpayers of about $250,000.

Cost of Mental Disease

New York spent almost $45,000,000 in 1931 on
maintenance of patients in institutions for mental
disease. During the same year Massachusetts
spent nineteen cents of every state tax dollar on
the care of the mentally deranged.

About 75,000 new cases are admitted every
year. At this rate, allowing for deaths and dis-
charges, the p0pulation of our mental hospitals is
increasing by about 10,000 a year. A recent study
of mental-disease expectancy in New York State
showed that one person out of every twenty-two
becomes a patient in a mental hospital sometime
during his or her lifetime.

Prevention the Best Cure

These figures will give you some idea of the
staggering burden of mental disease in the United
States at the present time. While the recovery
rates in mental hospitals are steadily increasing.
thanks to improved methods of treatment and to
the stimulus of the mental hygiene movement, our
greatest hope of reducing the tremendous eXpen-
ditures for the mentally sick lies in prevention.

For the past twenty years the energies of the
National Committee for Mental Hygiene and its
affiliated state and local organizations have been
increasingly devoted to the development of men-

370

 

“There is as much wisdom in cut-
ting the recreational budget at this
time as there would would be in cur-
tailing the work of the health de-
partment in the midst of an epidemic

of smallpox.”

 

tal hygiene activities in colleges, schools, clinics,
courts, and at other points in the community
strategic from the standpoint of prevention. Our
prospects for the reduction and control of men-
tal disorders depend ultimately upon the building
up of an adequate community organization and
the encouragement and support of medical, edu-
cational, social, and other community measures
favorable to the creation of a mentally healthful
environment.

Among these none is more important than
those which have to do with the development of
recreational and other resources of the commun-
ity that serve the leisure-time needs of our people
and contribute to the preservation of their physi-
cal health. A sound mind in a sound body is still
a good adage.

A Complex Problem

Unfortunately, the prevention of mental illness
is not as simple as the prevention of typhoid, tu—
berculosis 0r diphtheria. Our problem is more
complex. \Ve know the kinds of backgrounds—-
such as family situations, troubled states of mind,
mental conflicts, and painful life experiences that
so often lead to one form or another of insanity
and the lesser forms of mental disorder. The re—
moval of such causative factors, however, re-
quires a complicated method of procedure and
individualized study and treatment in every case.

“7 e cannot offer a mental-health blue print of
rules and directions comparable to vaccination and
other protective devices such as are employed in
the general field of public health. We do know,
however, that people who are kept well occupied
and not unduly subjected to fears and worries,

PLAY AND KEEP MENTALLY WELL 371

are by that much freer of the threat of mental
disease. Occupational therapy has been of enor-
mous value in the treatment of the mentally sick.
It is by the same token a powerful preventive of
mental and nervous disorders. Recreation—one
form of occupational therapy—-—'is a vital factor
in personality deve10pment, and no community
can consider itself adequate that does not make
extensive use of the benefits of recreation. It is
one of the best prescriptions we can give for those
who would safeguard themselves against mental
illness.

Depression’s Influence

The present economic crisis is exposing thou-
sands of people to the mental hazards of anxiety,
fear, insecurity, and the stresses and strains that
naturally spring from unemployment and eco-
nomic distress. Our mental hospitals report a
marked increase in new admissions and readmis—
sions during the past year which they ascribe, in
part, to depression conditions. Thus, we see that
there is great need for communities to concentrate
more intelligent thought, more money, and more
effort than ever before upon properly planned
recreational programs that in the long run con-
tribute to prevention and help to stem the tide of
increasing insanity.

Food, clothing, and shelter are essential but
they are not enough. If the unemployed are to
maintain a: normal balance, they must have some-
thing in addition to What is ordinarily provided _by
relief agencies. They need opportunities for
wholesome emotional outlets; they need substi-
tutes for anti-social behavior tendencies; in short,
they need help in restoring a morale which has
been in a majority of cases badly shattered.

It is not an easy matter for self-respecting peo-
ple, _who are willing to earn their way, to have to
accept relief. They are unhappy and wretched.
discouraged and depressed, even when their phy-
sical needs are provided for. They are being
added to that large class of maladjusted people
who feed our mental hospitals.

Effective Antidote

Man does not live by bread alone. The spiritual
hunger that comes from lack of something to do
is second only to the physical hunger that comes
from lack of food. Material relief may prevent

starvation but it will not prevent the mental mor—
bidity that so often leads to suicide, anti—social
attitudes, discontent, and a general loss of char—
acter and morale. Wholesome recreation is an
effective antidote to all of this.

During the World War, as an officer with the
A. E. F ., I had ample opportunity to observe the
great morale-building forces of recreation at work
among the troops. There was a concerted and
organized drive to provide recreation for our
soldiers, because it was felt that the emergency
required it. A far greater emergency exists today
among our unemployed who have not even the
consolation of being considered heroes in a great
cause.

In the light of these facts it is disheartening to
find that instead of extending their recreational
facilities at this time, many communities are short-
sighted enough to treat recreational expense as a
handy item for drastic budgetary curtailment.
Regarding recreation as a luxury, they find it
easier to reduce these facilities, in some instances
even eliminating them entirely, than to practice
economy all along the line. To the ofhcials of
such communities—-—and to the people who elect
them to oche—we leave this parting warning:
There is as much wisdom in cutting the recrea-
tional budget at this time as there would be in
curtailing the work of the health department in
the midst of an epidemic of smallpox.

“An organization which has been bringing more
abundant life into a community can meet only a
fraction of the obvious need for such an organiza-
tion. "The plans of our lives both for ourselves
and our families are shattered. The collapse of
our hopes is so complete that we think no longer
in terms of discouragement but in thoughts of
despair. We are in danger of conforming to our
world; it would be easy now to let the lines of
our spirit fall into the pattern of despair.

“And yet never was there such need for crea—
tive spiritual insight as now. Those who possess
it will find new ways for making secure for them-
selves, their community and their world those
values which belong to the hidden empire of
God.”—Rhoda E. McCulloch, in the Womans
Press, July-August, 1933.

Home-Made Music

By EMANUEL ELSTON

musical as a people. Is this to be interpreted
as meaning that musical capacity is lacking?
There is no proof. But in another sense it is only
too true that we are not a musical people—in the
sense that a musical people is a people who made
music either by singing or by playing, or by both.

The Italians, the Germans, the Russians are
musical, not only because they have given the
world great musicians and composers, but essen-
tially because music-making is universal with
them. We should, perhaps, be nearer to the truth
if we said that these nations produced so many
great musicians because the people themselves are
so interested in making their own music that they
have provided a stimulating musical environment
in which musical genius thrives.

There is no reason to believe that Americans
have less actual musical capacity than others. But
as a nation occupied with the bustle and turmoil
of exploiting a continent, we have been content
to buy our music from those reputed to be tech-
nically trained and equipped to furnish it. It has
not, apparently, occurred to us that if the joy in
listening is great, the joy in making music is even
greater.

As a nation, we get even our ubiquitous jazz
vicariously. \Ve have abrogated our right to ex-
press ourselves musically and, unfortunately,
music teachers have made little effort to discour-
age this surrender of our rights. They, too, have
worshipped the fetish of music for trained musi-
cians only. We have laid down our musical heri-
tage as a sacrifice upon the altar of false idols—
the idols of skillful digitation at an instrument
and technical perfection of vocal utterance. It
would be just as wise to surrender our right to
speech and to permit only
those who have had train-
ing in elocution and oratory
to do our thinking and speak-
ing for us. (There are those
to be sure, who maintain, in
view of the sad plight the

372

IT Is FREQUENTLY said that Americans are not

True appreciation grows out of shared
pleasures which are really enjoyed by
grown-ups as well as children. This
is the theme of Mr. Elston’s article
published by courtesy of Child Study

and of the author.

country finds itself in at the present time, that
Americans are guilty of having done even that.)

Importance of Singing

Dr. Surette has said, “We are all more musicai
than we are thought to be; we are all more
musical than we get the chance to be.” We might
add that we are all more musical than we give
ourselves the chance to be. How, it is asked, can
we possibly make music, if we have had no train-
ing? The very question reveals the false idols to
which we have paid homage. We fail to realize
that nature has provided us with the most beau-
tiful of all instruments, the voice, which we can
use as easily for the making of music as for the
making of speech. \Ve have worshipped mechan-
ical perfection so much that we have applied the
same criterion to the music that we might make.
We have felt that only those blessed with un—
usually beautiful voices may sing. But why? Do
the Russians, the Germans, the Italians have any
such notion? No, they have not surrendered their
inalienable right to self-eXpression through
singing.

Singing is as natural a manner of expression
and as universal a.capacity as speech. It is not
merely the technical perfection and mastery of
the voice, but the very process of singing itself
that gives pleasure. Many adults have been mis-
led by others or by themselves into believing they
cannot “carry a tune.” The number of real mono-
tones in our population is probably no greater
than the number of persons who are deaf and
dumb. Adults and children who have convinced
themselves that they cannot sing, do not sing—
not because they really cannot, but because they
have lost faith in their ability to do so. More
often than not, the inhibition
dates back to childhood, to
the time when the individual
has not as yet “found” his
singing voice. Having been
told from then on that he
cannot carry a tune, that he

HOME-MADE MUSIC 373

cannot sing, he never again even tries. This is what
frequently happens to those children whom the
public schools classify as “listeners,” a misnomer,
if there ever was one, since most children thus
designated neither listen, nor know how to listen
to music. Having been so dubbed, they receive
no further help in learning to listen or learning
to sing. Much havoc is wrought by this policy
of telling those children who have any difficulty in
carrying a tUne that they must not even attempt
to sing. They become conditioned for life and
are frequently deprived of the right to further
musical development through the prevalent mis-
conception that inability to carry a tune is indis-
putable evidence of complete lack of musical
capacity. This, in spite of the fact that many very
musical children and adults cannot carry a tune,
usually because they have never been led to “find”
their singing voice and because they have been
completly, although unjustifiably, discouraged.

Music education should rest on a fOUndation of
singing. The voice is the most natural and the
most beautiful of all musical instruments. Chil-
dren and adults can and should sing, regardless
of cultivated technical perfection. The aim of
singing should be the pleasure to be derived from
it, rather than technical perfection or voice
training.

Family-Made Music

There is nothing that encourages children’s in—
terest more than music made by the family.
Probably the most significant way in which par-

'1

-. a I. _. - 'i‘ 4- as
C ourtesy Park and Recreation Board, Birmingham

ents can be of service in their children’s musical
development lies in encouraging and stimulating
them to sing. This should not be interpreted to
mean that the children should be given vocal
training, but rather that they should be given
rich musical experiences, through the utilization
of that beautiful, intimate instrument which they
carry about everywhere with them. The home
can help to make music functional and vital in the
lives of all the members of the family. Children
need never feel that music exists for the sole
purpose of forcing them to practise.

Folk songs, the simple, beautiful musical ex-
pression of the human race and the basis of most
good music, might well constitute the essential
material of family singing. They are easily
learned and are enjoyed by adults as well as by
children. Any child who is studying music in a
progressive school can easily teach what he learns
there to the other members of the family. Of
course the family need not depend upon this
source alone for its repertoire. There are many
excellent collections of folk songs and every
family is acquainted with someone who could help
them to learn the tunes. Nothing better could be
desired than a repertoire of folk songs for the
development of good taste in music. Theodore
Thomas once said that “popular music is the
music we are familiar with.” With a background

(Continued on page 393)

A group of children in Birmingham, Alabama,
happily engaged in making their own music.

 

Recreation As a Preparation for Life

When we spend tax funds for

things which build up chil-

dren's health and character,
we are spending wisely.

ested in children and their recreation as a part

of their preparation for life. Recreation, as
you all know, is becoming more and more im-
portant to us because we are going to find that we
will have more leisure time, and therefore, .when
the children are children they must learn to use
leisure time. For this purpose there is nothing
more important than our parks and playgrounds,
and our recreation centers. We need not only the
space and the equipment, but we need directors
who are wise in the training of children. There
are many things that can be learned in the play-
grounds. We can learn good sportsmanship; we
can learn unselfishness; we can learn loyalty, and
we can learn the necessity of give and take, which
is perhaps one of the most useful lessons for
future life—being able to mix with a group and
work for the good of a team rather than for our
own individual satisfaction. Many lessons can be
learned very easily on the playgrounds if there
are people there who can direct the play and
wisely teach the children.

I AM SURE that every one in this room is inter-

A Wise Use for Tax Funds

There is a great deal which may be said about
the cost of taxes to the people for recreation fa-
cilities for children, and this is a subject which I
am sure that somebody far
better equipped than I am
has discussed. But in a
general way I want to
suggest to you what has
always seemed to me the
very best argument for
this kind of taxes. When
we pay taxes for things
which build up children’s
health, which build their
character, we are paying

374

On October 3rd Mrs. Roosevelt addressed
the New York City Recreation Conference
held under the auspices of the Recreation
Bureau, Department of Parks, Manhattan.
Hon. John E. Sheehy, Park Commissioner,
presided at the conference.
were made by George Gordon Battle and
by Roy Smith Wallace. Other features of
the program were musical selections hy
the University Concert Orchestra, and a
demonstration of dancing by children of
the park playgrounds.

By
MRS. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

taxes for constructive things for the future. We
all know that a great deal of juvenile delinquency
and crime could be prevented if more children
could be supervised in their play, and could be in-
duced to join in playground activities; and when
we consider what it costs us as taxpayers in the
waste of human beings when they become crim-
inals and in pr0perty, or property belonging to
human beings through lack of education and lack
of recreational facilities for young people, I think
that all of us will agree that we can well afford
always to pay taxes for the things that are going
to make better citizens for us in the coming gen-
eration. This is particularly so now when we are
preparing young people for more leisure time.
The more we can give our young people in parks
and playgrounds, a love of the outdoors, a love
of the feeling of being in good condition and feel-
ing well, the more it will tend to fill their time
profitably and to give them a side which can well
be deve10ped and help them to {ill many hours of
leisure time.

I am always impressed by the remarkable pro-
grams which our various settlement houses and
different groups that are interested in children
carry on in their work, but I still feel there are
many, many children that could be reached and
should be reached in a big city like New York
and many other cities
throughout the country. I
think New York always
stands as the example
which is followed along
many lines, and I hope
that we will always be able
to point to our parks and
playgrounds and our rec—
reational facilities for
children, and to say that

(Continued on page 394)

Addresses

 

   

"The open air and the earth under his
feet are as necessary to the child's
healthy growth as the water is to the
fish or the air to the birds."

Courtesy Ministry of Hygiene and Physical Education, Czechoslovakia

More Time for Play

By ANGELO PATRI

that I had to enlarge the classes and overwork

the teachers and all that, I would cut down
the classroom work and extend the play activities.
You see, children understand about play. They
don’t need so much supervision nor so much in-
struction when they are playing in the open air
as when they are studying in the classroom. No-
body has to remind them to finish a game of ball.
Catch a child stopping before the final moment.
Not he. He begins another game as fast as he
can for fear you might notice he has finished and
give him something to do, something improving,
as it were.

IF I HAD so LITTLE money for school activities

I

Play Is Serious

Play is the business of childhood. And a ser-
ious business it is. Nature
ordained that play should
be the method of a child’s
growth. His muscles and
nerves must be coordinated
before they can serve him,
and play is the answer to
that problem.

He must learn to give and Teachers.”

. The article by Mr. Patri which appeared
in the March issue of RECREATION aroused
so much interest that we have obtained
permission from the Bell Syndicate. Inc.,
to reprint an article which was published
in the April 6th issue of the Chicago daily
newspapers and papers in other cities.
The article was entitled “More Time for

Play Is Necessary Relief for Children

and take, to help a job forward, to give all he has
in an effort to get what he wants in cooperation
with his fellows, and play is the answer to that.
He must learn to find his place in the group and
maintain it in spite of all comers, and team play
is the answer to that.

The open air and the earth under his feet are
as necessary to his healthy growth as the water is
to the fish or the air to the birds. It is not possible
to rear healthy, well-adjusted children in closed
rooms. The best ventilating s’ystem put on the
market must take a lower (place when fresh air,
filtering through sunshine, is offered in its stead.
No air, however cleansed, humidified, heated and
cooled can take the place of the air that rides in
the chariots of clouds driven by the winds and
warmed by the sun.

A Means of Education

Play is a good use of a child’s time. I believe
that children learn better and retain more if they
have plenty of free play in the open air than if
they sit for long periods in the classrooms under
the strain of questioning,
tests, study and recitations
to recording angels.

There is a distinct rela-
tion between play and work.
A child carries his play
habits into his work because
his work is but the continu-

(Continued on page 394)
375

“we Uses of Leisure

By EDWIN R, 15me
Preside-l; J's-s Raga-awn” Fond-Eu

xcoxsmmctheuecsoflcimhtsiaqén

§rsttbethcrth£rcisaxygreatlizdmoodthzt

weawgo’mgtohvemlésure. Itwdd
beEOObEdifWCWCHKDZIOtOfUDEbEEOp‘I’E-
pan: for quiet enjoymentandthcn {mad the:
afteraHkismrewzsnotfonhcomhginaaylasge
dark-3.

'I'hscaaswerseunsrezllyprcttydw. Mach
productioa and cfchcm dh'isioa of labor have
createdancwcraAmovmtwhichweaE&
Indm‘trle Revbltrtion, starting about a. bathed
andfiityyezrsago,hasbeeachngingtfcm—
tertiemditfonsofmliieatEtodzyioodagd
cbthfng and sapplies are an.th in an abaé—
mamdrezmedoffaaafothcragc.

Upmthchdaétizlmmakiadhaéhcesca-
gzgedinadespetaehandstrtggiemmdof
stznaiion sad ptivatiou. \Vith the  of
steam 3361 the invention of power-driven m-
Wthcgmtobeposstlcfmmet-zmw
in @tory “to mag-aim goat: £25: mi: to
keepepwithnaaa'sneedsAchoscn‘im-gswéch
forgeshadbeenslowfyzsdlabodcmhmh
hagidbegzambeatmckedbythei-eédcm
machine. Cotzoadothcotzkibesptmia Man—
dlestertodothcthcwhokwodd. Shocst
Padprevioeslybeenmhtbyhandinsfngic
pairs wemfmredbymhcmmion Chan‘s-s
aritableswhichaPEI-yfchaddmacdalifetfae
tomakE-ngeretnrncdoutinsmadardthom.
Sciemiéc fanning served by mien-ital slaves
andctthdedbynewmetEm-s‘sofpteservatbabe—
gar; so be able to supply
food forthewhole worId.
Com of the most
' wind: it

vacuum cleaners. Finally,
add of handsometays
MTakU-edc’éwmék

WW2..th
13.1933.

376

 

Wmmagkcfdmidzbkycks,”
@535.phmog1=phs,m“'eEV-emthyha
midofplcxzymfmdofbyo-rieniai-
crs. Thaismthcahestmm
ot'mach'mes weczapmdnccmagh foodalé
dochcsaaisapplicsmmticmimt
ofthtcatiretamaamct.
ItistracthimcarcsaMIb
éomtsharcintf—isaewplmty,bettbatkhb
amofthcfzahsofoerimmhhay,
oerfmmasdccoaomics,m€bmeaia-y
hdcofrcalzbmdaacr. Emhticmidstafthe
pmdepressiaawestilhavcavuimhkm—
banasmea-tofpiuay. Inmduetothcm—
isbirgl‘ackshoureméwmhisthismy
mwmmmmw
cart. “'ehavcthcazggecMCOEW
smvi-sghccaiscthecismmhwhuthie
devastamomhcnmadhogaadcaicm
theiarm.;peqmlcmhkwgctdmheshm
thereismamxhcouoaandwoohlnvgmgo
barefootbccaxcmomys‘aoeshschmaé-
afmaiwakigthcmbemasethaeac
mo many arm, too many trucks, at!
WMMMEzmgreaéa-tihs
brokcnthcha¢of Germsde
timescade
“'ecmzadwmstrzjgbcsodthcsaperhi
seat-15 It: 03mm. mm
d2}: \Vearerezliyinaacwm Hmmbagtr
Mmspendhiseairetimcaadewgha

MnEnbi-ce'sanidciswdtkmghthe - _
courtesy of The Libra? Journal in
' originally appeared. Our .
readerswiHb-eintcrestedtokmwthai '
theSeptemberlSthi-seueefthelurul
waéthcthirdinitsseriesoalcism
andtthLbrai-y. Thispedtluaanher
takesipthesabjettofrocaitioaeand
math-“aesthediscuséon d‘hWh»
teremmhobbics.

oiworkhyeacho-fesch‘r-
gfoerorfivedaysaueek
wiI-Isappb'in fame
g the accesides ad 23

THE USES OF LEISURE 3/1

the luxuries we can
use.

we enter a new
freedom. No long-
er oxen or mules,
we now have the
opportunity to live
as men, even as the
Sons of God whom
we have m log
claimed to be. The
only questions are:
Can we take ad-
vantage of this new
freedom; can we
change our mental
outlook from that
of the drudgng mules we have had to be through-
out the ages and really enter upon a growth to-
ward our god-like heritage?

It is not going to be easy to do this. It doesn’t
take much imagination to work twelve hours a
day and tumble into a weary and sodden sleep at
night. Long drudging work has been a great
opiate. It has kept most men stupid and dull as
dumb driven tattle. It will not be easy for us to
accept the responsibilities of the new freedom—
this freedom of leisure.

I have just returned from a survey of Java and
the other islamb of the East Indies. In many ways
the people of these beautiful islands are wimr
than we. They know that life is to be lived and
enjoyed. They realize that drudgery is a curse.
And, while they work harder and longer hours
than we do in the \V'estern “'orld, they know
that labor is not an end in itself, but simply a
means of providing materials for real living.

At the end of a hard day of labor in Java and
Bali. the people come joyously at twilight for
dancing and singing, for playing on the gamelon
orchestra, for story telling and the spontaneous
acting of folk dramas. In these islands work,
even in the day time. is not allowed to interfere
too much with enjoyment. The rice fields are
kept beautiful not only that the yield may be
great, but from a love of creating a beautiful
landscape. Labor is oiten interrupted for village
festivals or celebrations in the temples. Drama
and song and dance are frequent offerings in
honor of the seasons, in thanksgiving over work
accomplished, or just in the sheer joy of living.

Lacking the wealth of the \Vest, having to work
much harder than we because of crude tools and

 

In the period oi un-

employment people
have turned m o r e
than ever to reading
as a satisfying means
oi employing! their
leisure time.

poor division of la-
b o r , nevertheless
these people have
not allowed them-
selves to slump into
oat—like stupor.
Constantly in every
form of art and ex-
pression, they are exuding a full and humane life.
If we are to enter our new heritage of leisure,
we also must begin to understand that enjoyment
and enrichment are the real purposes of life, that
labor is only a means to the goal of full rich

living.
There are a thousand ways in which different

ones of us .will work out lives worthy of the Sons

of God. I mention only one of them: the reading
of books-

Man is different from all the other animals in
that he uses speech. He has perfected this most
amazing of his tmls—Janglmge—so that he not
only conveys ideas directly to his neighbor but
can put thB talk onto paper and pass it around for

thousands to read today and study in the years to
come.

All man’s brilliant discoveries are recorded in
books, so that any of us may learn what the
wisest have searched out. The thinking of the
sages is written so clearly that even children can
begin to follow the keenest reasoning and the
deepest thinking. Poems make crystals of beauty.
The most graceful and delicate imaginings are of-
fered to us in Stories and sketches. The single
book, Alice in l V antler-land, has carried hundreds
of thousands of children—and grown people, too
—into gorgeous worlds of fantasy they never
could have entered by themselves. Through one
volume, the Bible, we have the history and folk
lore of one of the most interesting of races and
for two thousand years millions of us have been
able to hear the teachings of an humble inspired
prophet as he walked the shores of Galilee.

(Continued on page 395)

When You Do Your Christmas Planning

ACH CHRISTMAS more toys
E are being collected, recon-
ditioned a n d distributed
through recreation departments
and similar groups; every year
shows a greater effort put forth
to make Christmas a day of
good che e r and happiness
for all.

The activities recorded here are being de-

veloped in cities throughout the country.

Christmas Shops

The Waco, Texas, Department of Recreation
has an institution known as the Toy Chest which
each year collects all kinds of toys, whether they
are in good condition or not, for the children of
the city whose parents are not able to supply
them with toys. After the toys have been col-
lected they are reconditioned by the firemen and
other groups and are systematically distributed.

In 1932 the Department held classes in hand-
craft in nine of the city ward schools—thirty—four
classes in all—under the leadership of a com-
petent director. These classes made about 75
stick horses, many of them with stuffed heads and
all painted in bright colors, and 50 doll beds and
other articles of doll furniture. One of the wom-
en’s clubs made over a hundred mattresses for the
beds. Still another women's club made 35 stuffed
animals which were turned over to the Toy Chest
for distribution. Groups of Camp Fire girls took
fruit and candy to the charity wards of several
hospitals. The Negro Department made toys and
distributed fruit and candy to a negro orphanage

and day nursery.
The Social Service Division of the Department

of Recreation provided leadership at a number of
Christmas parties or arranged suitable parties on
request. It also loaned Santa Claus costumes to

many organizations.
About 800 toys were made in the summer

playground shops by the boys of Long Beach,
California, for distribution through the Christ-
mas Cheer Fund. The toys were a real contribu-
tion to the needy children of the community.

378

Some of last year’s experiences
in planning for Christmas may
suggest ideas for this year’s cele-
bration of 'the festival. There
will be increascd effort every-
where, through municipal de-
partments and private groups,
to insure a Merry Christmas In
which all may share.

Four hundred and fifty re-
modeled toys and 25 toy air-
planes made in the handcraft
classes were distributed by the
Detroit, Michigan, Department
of Recreation ’to children in
hospitals and institutions. Many
recreation departments are fol-
lowing similar plans in connec-
tion with their Christmas celebration.

A Toy Information Bureau

During the month of December 1932, the Rec—
reation Commission of Amsterdam, New York,
conducted a Toy Information Bureau. Noting
that the average clerk in the department stores or
shops where toys were sold had little knowledge
as to the correct toys for children to have at dif-
ferent ages, the Commission decided to gather as
much data on this problem as possible and to
make it available for shoppers. Plans included
running an article in the daily press before par-
ents did their Christmas shopping. Another im-
portant feature of the plan was the presentation
of the project to each merchant handling toys.
The response was gratifying. Immediately the
Commission was given a complete list of the
merchants’ toys so that if a mother, father or
other individual interested called and asked for
information on toys, after the information had
been given it would be possible to say that the
suggested toys could be procured at certain local
stores. There were a number of calls for infor-
mation, and the plan stimulated a great deal of
interest and favorable comment among the

citizens.

Christmas in Foreign Lands

The Department of Recreation of the Sioux
City, 'Iowa, public schools and the Recreation
Council last year sponsored a Christmas celebra-
tion in which methods of observing Christmas in
foreign lands were featured.

Contact groups were appointed early in Novem-
ber, and by the first of December the basic foun-
dation of the program was complete. The plan

IVHEN YOU DO YOUR CHRISTMAS PLANNING

as outlined by John E. Gronseth, Director' of
Recreation, was as follows: The twenty or more
nationalities interested in taking part were ar-
ranged in groups of kindred nations -—

The Latin speaking group Swedish
Mexicans German
Spanish Danish
Italian British Isles group
Slavic group English
Syrian Irish
Greek Scotch
Lithuanian Welch
Polish All American group
Russian American born,

Teutonic group including Negro

Norwegians

The program opened with a meeting of the
Latin speaking group on Monday, December
12th, in the Woodrow Wilson Junior School
auditorium. Approximately 3,00 were in attend-
ance. On Tuesday afternoon the Slavic group
met at East Junior with an attendance of about
600. No special program was held on Wednes-
day because of the fact that “The Messiah” was
presented. It was necessary to have two pro-
grams on Thursday night. The All American and
the British Isles groups met at West Junior and
North Junior with attendances of 400 and 700
respectively. Friday evening the Teutonic group
met at East High School with an attendance of

approximately 900.

On Sunday afternoon a composite program was
arranged in the form of a pageant, high lights
from each weekly program being introduced. The
pageant, “They Come Bringing Gifts,” written by
M i s s H u l d a
K r e u t z of the
English Depart—
ment of E a s t
High School, was
presented W i t h
John Peterson of
Morningside Col-
lege serving as
reader and inter-
preter. The Morn-
ingside s t r in g
quartet provided,
music. The pro-
gram was very ef-
fective and th e
attendance w a 3
approximately
Lam.

W-

 

Courtesy National Tuberculosis- Association

379

The results of the undertaking were gratify-
ing. All groups participating signified their de—
sire to conduct a similar project next year on a
larger scale. This series of demonstrations was
given without cost to any individual or depart-
ment, all services being donated. The use of the
school buildings was granted by the Board of
Education, and there was no admission charge.

In the Chicago Tribune for December 25, 1932.,
Professor William F. Ogburn of the University
of Chicago published an article on the significance
of Christmas in human experience. He points
out that there were festivals at the winter solstice
long before Christianity. Primitive farmers and
hunters had marked “the coming of more sun-
light” and the rhythm of the seasons was more
closely linked with the rhythm of the human
spirit than seems to be the case in western in-
dustrial areas.

Furthermore, the present Christmas is en-
riched from various heritages. “The Druids con-
tributed the rites of the mistletoe; the Scandina-
vians brought the custom of burning the yule log;
the Germans added the ceremonies surrounding
the evergreen, and the Christmas tree. . . . .

“An institution of so great a tenacity, far
greater than that of nations and governments, can
only symbolize how longingly the human heart
searches for the first signs of a new day which
will lessen its sufferings and give hope of better
things to come. . . . .

“This is not the time nor the place for the
charts and graphs of economic analyses, and-

though hope

' , springs eternal in

the human breast,

we are surfeited

with erroneous

predictions and
false prophets.

“All wisdom is
not contained in
charts and graphs
and this season of

(Continued on
- page 395)

And the time is fast
approaching when
we buy Christmas
seals!

 

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

HE MOST ENJOYABLE phase of rehearsing be-
T gins after the lines are learned and the stage

business worked out. The more mechanical
details of the performance have been learned“.
The actor’s mind is no longer occupied with his
lines and his positions. ’He knows them so well
that they no longer require concentration. He is
now free to throw himself into his part, to feel
the emotion which he is expressing, to become the
character which he is portraying. This is when
some directors say, “Now you can begin to act!”

Two Important Questions

Immediately the two often-discussed questions
concerning character portrayal and emotional ex-
pression will come to the mind of the reader.
This is well, because they will undoubtedly be
brought up by the actors.

I. How much emotion should the actor feel?

Is it possible for the actor to feel all of the
emotion he is portraying to the audience, and if
it is possible, is it desirable? Suppose a death
scene is being enacted upon the stage. An actor
must express great sorrow and bitter grief.
Would he really feel all of this emotion? Cer-
tainly not, because if he did he would quite pos-
sibly break down, lose control of his voice, forget
his lines and ruin the whole scene.

On the other hand, if he does not feel any of
the emotion he is expressing, he is apt to be
superficial, stilted and mechanical. 'Actors with
many years of experience, and great ability may
find it possible to portray an emotion sincerely
without feeling any part of it, because their tech-
nique is near perfection. Amateur actors, how-
ever, as well as the great majority of profession-
als, do not have the experience and the great con-
trol of acting technique that the Booths, the Bern-

380

With the more technical details of the
performance mastered, then comes by
far the most enjoyable phase of rehears-
ing when the actor is free to throw him-

sclf into his part. This Mr. Knapp dis-

cusses as “Rehearsng for Sincerity.”

hardts and the Arlisses have, and necessarily
must feel part of the emotion portrayed to avoid
artificiality.

A common sense answer to this question might
be: “Feel enough of the‘ emotion to be sincere,
but never so much as to lose control of mind.
voice or body.”

2. Should the actor retain his own personality,
or submerge it into the character he is portraying?

A great many professional actors retain their
own personality in every part that they play and
might be referred to as “personality” actors. Will
Rogers and Maurice Chevalier are examples.
These actors act, it’s true, but always as them-
selves. They do not pretend to be anyone else.
They portray emotion and go through action to
tell a story, but it is always Will Rogers and
Maurice Chevalier whom you see. The great ma-
jority of motion picture stars are “personality”
actors.

On the other hand, there is the character actor
who first becomes another person, and then in
this other form expresses emotion and goes
through action to tell a story. He creates a dif—
ferent character for every part that he plays,
submerging his own personality in this other be-
ing that he creates. The late Lon Chaney might
be referred to as an almost perfect example of
this type of actor.

Which type of acting, then, is of greatest value
to the amateur actor, “personality” or “character”?

“Personality” 0r “Character”?

The professional has an advantage over the
amateur. His audience doesn’t 'know him per-
sonally. The amateur actor, however, is perform-
ing before his friends and neighbors. They don’t

(Continued on page 395)

Be Your Own Silversmith!

By VIRGINIA R. BRITTON
Richmond, Virginia

RE YOU wondering what kind of handicraft
A you can do that is different and not expen-
sive? Something that can be done in a mini-
mum of space and with as few costly tools as
possible? Did you ever think of making silver
bracelets? Let me tell you of our experiences
making them at camp and at William and Mary
College.

All the equipment necessary is a pair of tin
snips, a medium file and some Brillo (not the
soap), all of which you can purchase in the ten
cent store; a two ounce ball peen hammer that
may be gotten from a hardware store, and a
wooden mallet—the same one that you have been
using for your leather work. A heavy wooden
board is useful—one of your leather punching
boards— but an anvil, a cedar post or any hard,
firm surface except cement, which will scratch,
will answer. At camp we found the tops of the
cedar posts around the dining hall porch to be ex-
cellent. If you plan to etch your silver you will
need an ounce of nitric acid, either concentrated
or diluted, depending upon whether you want
your etching to appear beaten
or smooth, a medicine dropper,
an ordinary candle and some
matches. The silver that
we have found most eco-
nomical is German silver
one inch wide by 22 B and
S gauge, which comes in
a long strip by the pound,
about 11 feet to the pound.

To make a bracelet for
the average adult, cut off
a piece 6 inches long.
round the ends with your
snips and file them per-
fectly smooth, being care-
ful to file just the edges
and not scratch the brace-
let. Take a piece of Brillo

The three stages in the making of a
silver bracelet by girls of Houston

 

and polish your piece of silver, rubbing back and
forth the length of the piece. Be careful to polish
always in the same direction or you will find your
bracelet scratched. Do this on both sides. If you
wish a plain bracelet, take your wooden mallet
and holding your strip against something round
—the leg of a chair will do nicely—bend it to
fit your arm.

Perhaps, thongh, you would prefer a ham-
mered bracelet. If so, after you have polished
your strip and before it is shaped. take your ball
peen hammer and, placing your strip on the
punching board or whatever you have found to
use, hammer it with firm, even strokes that are
not too hard. As you progress the hammered part
will curl up slightly. Merely turn your silver
over, and with the broad, flat end of your ham-
mer hammer it flat, then turn it over and proceed.
Now bend it, and your bracelet is finished.

Suppose, however, that you would like an
etched bracelet. That, too, is easy to make. After
you have rounded the ends of your strip and be-
fore it is polished, drip wax on the part of it upon
which you wish your design
and draw the design right on
the wax, removing the wax
where you wish the silver
to be etched. (By remov-
ing the wax from the de-
sign it will be lowered,
while by removing the wax
from around the design it
is raised since the silver
exposed to acid is eaten
away.) With your medi-
cine dropper drop the acid
on the silver of the design
and when the reaction
stops, that is, when it stops
smoking and bubbling, put
it in soapy water to

(Continued on page 396)

381

Waging War on Juvenile Delinquency

By KARL G. JOHANBOEKE

Division of Recreation, Department of Public Welfare
Louisville, Kentucky

cations for the expenditure of tax funds for

municipal recreation is the fact that play-
ground and community center programs tend to
reduce the number of juvenile delinquents in a
community.

The Division of Recreation of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, by setting up a juvenile delinquency pre—
vention program, has made a definite effort to
interest in recreation activities the potential juve-
nile offenders of the city. The securing of inter-
est and participation has been the first objective.
A decided advantage in the program is that
through it it is possible to demonstrate to inter-
ested taxpayers the relation of the recreation de-
partment to the reduction of delinquency by bring-
ing into the pro—
gram boys an d
girls who are
problem children.

IN THE EYES of the taxpayer one of the justifi-

How We Went
About It

The task of get-
ting information
regarding all the
problem children
of the city and
even of discover-
ing just who these
children were was
entirely too large
for the recreation
department alone.
Consequently an
effort was made
to draw upon all
community re-
sources. A ques—
tionnaire was

382

 

made out asking for information relative to the
child’s sex and age, his grade in school, his
address, the home situation, and his type of be—
havior problem. Then in order to provide our-
selves with working tools, information was re-
quested regarding the child’s leisure—time interests,
whether he was interested in athletics of the team
game or individual type, in hikes, parties, hand—
craft, music, dramatics, marionettes, movies and
other activities. A space was left for any addi-
tional leisure-time interests not specified.

Through the Board of Education these ques-
tionnaires were placed in the hands of the home
room teachers of each school in the system which
had children residing within the so-called “effec-
tive radius" of one—half mile of each of our play—
grounds. In some
instances the prin—
ci p a1 s o f t h e
s c h 0 ol s w e r e
r a t h e r hesitant
about asking their
teachers to under-
take the work in—
volved, but when
they were assured
that the informa-
tion was to be
used for practical
purposes they
were glad to co—
operate.

The weapons used
in the fight were
activities covering
many varied in-
terests.

WAGING WAR ON JUVENILE DELINQUENCY 383

Next we made contacts
with the Family Service
Organization, the Chil—
dren’s Agen cy and the
Jewish Welfare Associa-
tion. These organizations
sent us information on the
behavior problem children
with whom they were in
touch through their work,
together with information
on other children n ot
actually, behavior prob-

Los Angeles County, California, is increas-
ing playgrounds in its fight against juve-
nile delinquency. The July-August issue
of the Juvenile Research Bulletin published

by the Juvenile Research Committee of .

the Los Angeles County Coordinating
Councils reports that from July 5th to
August 25th a total of 2,095 workers paid
by relief funds were assigned to recreation
projects in the county. Of this number
1,388 were assigned to work on play-
grounds, and 182 playgrounds were opened
which otherwise would have been closed
all summer. Sixty-three new play centers
were developed by relief workers.

It was recognized from
the beginning that irrepa-
rable damage might be
done if t h e s e children
were aware of the fact
that they were being con-
sidered as special cases.
To avoid this it was ar-
ranged that none of the
case records could be taken
from the office. The work-
ers studied them at head—
quarters and were allow-

lems who they felt would

be helped by taking part in the activities con-
ducted by our department. These agencies aLso
agreed to have their social workers meet the di-
rector of each playground and give him the com-
plete picture of every child’s background in order
that he might do a more effective piece of work
with these children.

From the Juvenile Court we obtained similar
information abOut children who had come to their
attention and who were on probation. In these
instances, too, Juvenile Court officers promised
to confer with the playground directors. Our
next contact was with the director of the Reha-
bilitation Department of Ormsby Village, the cor-
rective institution for children of JeEerson
County. This department has to do with the
paroling of children and their placement in homes
in the community. It is interesting to note that
one of the first questions asked by Ormsby Vil-
lage on the questionnaire provided homes taking
paroled children was: “How far is your residence
from a municipal playground?” This is signifi-
cant as showing the value placed on recreation as
a force in adjustment to community life. It was
arranged for the workers from the Rehabilitation
Department. to cooperate with the recreation lead~
ers from the Division of Recreation just as work-
ers from other community organizations had
agreed to do.

When the information from the Board of Edu-
cation and the other agencies came into the of-
fice the case records were filed according to play-
ground communities. Before the opening of the
summer playground program the case records for
each playground were put in the hands of the
recreation workers and it became their responsi-
bility to interest these children in their playground
and draw them into the program.

ed to take with them to
the playground merely the information on name.
age, sex and address of the problem children
within the effective radius of that playground.
Playground leaders were instructed to try to
make contact with the children through the in-
vitation of another child living near them who
was already a participant in the program.

In some instances case workers from the vari-
ous agencies came to the recreation office to talk
about children in whom they were interested and
arrangements were made for these workers to
take groups of children to the playground for a
picnic on League Playground Ball Day. While
they were there they would casually introduce
the children to the playground leader who would
tell them of the activities provided and secure
their promise to participate in those in which
they were interested.

Because of unemployment problems the case
workers of the various social agencies were so
overloaded with work that they did not have time
to cooperate with us to the extent desirable to
them and to us. They did, however, accomplish a
great deal. A most valuable by-product of the
experiment was the splendid feeling of coopera—
tion between all the organizations in the com-
munity working with behavior problem children
and under—privileged children.

There were, of course, certain weaknesses in
the program. Let us take, for example, the case
of a behavior problem boy referred to us through
the invitation of another boy, a regular attendant
at the playground. This boy’s chief leisure-time
interest, we found out, was baseball and his real
reason in coming was to join a baseball team. If
there were no incentive for him to sample other
playground activities he might come to the play-
ground only three afternoons a week, twice for

384 WAGING WAR ON JUVENILE DELINQUENCY

practice and again for the regular game. Because
of this it seemed necessary to set up some type
of program in which the boy would sample all the
activities open to him on the playground.

With this in mind, we wentoto the Junior Board
of Trade and interested them in sponsoring a
boys’ club on the Louisville playgrounds. The
set up of the club’s organization and its program
was as follows:

Efiiciency tests were devised in all playground
activities; these tests were then arranged so that
they would be given each Friday afternoon dur-
ing the entire playground season. The first test
took place on June 30th; the last test was com-
pleted Friday, August 25th. To eXplain just how
the program was conducted we present a page
from our Playground Staff Guide relative to the
Junior Board Boys’ Club.

“Summer Club Program for Boys 10— 15.

“In order to join this club and to get his' club
button, the boy must sign up with the instructor
and qualify in the first test. In order to remain
in good standing and to be eligible for the picnic
at the end of the season, he must pass all the
qualifications and wear his club button all season.

“A list of the boys’ names, addresses and ages,

qualifying in the first test must be made in dupli- '

cate. Keep one copy for your reference and bring
the other to Karl Johan-
boeke to the staff meeting
Saturday, July I.

San Francisco is doing much by providing play
facilities and leaders to combat delinquency.

“Check off each event as the boy qualifies on
the back of his playground registration card.
Also keep this record on the club registration
sheets.

“In the event of a boy’s not being able to take
his test at the regular time due to sickness, ab-
sence from town or any other excuse deemed ac-
ceptable by the instructor, he can make up his
test at any time convenient to the instructor be-
fore the day of the next test. This will not hold
true, however, concerning the last test on the pro-
gram. All qualifications must have been passed
by 9:00 P. M. Friday, August II, in order to
permit the boy to go on the picnic during the
week ending August 26.

“I. Volley Ball Egicz'eucy Test

a. Serving—I trial consisting of 5 attempts.
Three out of 5 attempts must be legal serves.

b. Team play——Must play at least one game of
volley ball under the SUpervision of playground
instructor or competent monitor appointed by in-
structor and judged to be acceptable in team play.

Use standard court and net height for midgets
and standard junior requirements for juniors.

“II. Horseshoe Egiciency Test. Use standard
horseshoe court, 5 trials allowed, 4 shoes to each
trial, one trial must be suc-

cessful in keeping all 4
shoes in box.

. . ._ _-,I._Ir I _l I. If.
F! 4 '

 

..;” o I-

a gt.

WAGING WAR ON JUVENILE DELINQUENCY 385

“III. Piayground Bail Efficiency Test.

a. Pegging—Peg from catcher’s position to
second base—5 trials, 2 must be success, i.e., sec-
ond baseman must not have to take both feet off
base to catch ball.

b. Fielding—(I) Must field 2 out of 5 flies
landing in circle 20 yards in diameter, circle to be
placed 20 yards from base line, ball batted or
thrown from home plate. (2) Must catch and
throw to first baseman 2 out of 5 possible ground
balls hit to left short st0p position. Peg to first
base must be acceptable in the opinion of in-
structor or monitor appointed by him.

c. Batting—Must hit one of first 3 strikes
pitched to him (use same pitcher for testing all
boys. Have him pitch moderate speed.)

d. Base Running—Time to be set by test group
of 50 boys between ages of 10-15. Test on play-
ground ball rules (test sheet will be given to play-
ground instructor on weekly meeting preceding
the week of the test.)

“IV. Ring Tennis.

a. Three out of 5 serves must be successes.
b. Must return 3 out of 5 serves.

“V. Handcraft. Boys must exhibit at least
one completed and acceptable handcraft project
at the regular playground handcraft exhibit. Pro-
ject must, of course, have been made at the play-
ground.

“VI. Radio Track and Field 1% eat. Every boy
to be a member of the club and to be eligible for
the picnic at the end of the season must have

participated in the tryouts for the radio track and
field meet.

“VII. Sportsmanship. The boys must be ac-
ceptable in sportsmanship and playground citizen-
ship in the opinion of the instructor during the
entire playground season.”

These tests it will be seen were not designed to
pick out the experts in each activity. The point
was to make the test difficult enough to require
some practice and yet sufficiently easy so that any
boy between the ages of IO and I 5 could pass
them if he were interested to put forth the ef-
fort. It will be necessary for us to revise some of
the tests next year as they seemed rather too easy
for the majority of the boys. Allowance was
made for any boy in the club who had a physical
handicap and the test was modified to meet his
capabilities.

Drawing the Boy Into the Program

Let us return for a moment to the boy coming
to the playground because of his interest in play-
ing on the ball team. \Vhile practicing there one
afternoon he will notice the large celluloid Junior
Board Boys’ Club buttons worn by his team
mates. He will ask what it is all about, and he
will be told. \Vhen he discovers that all the boys
in the club who pass all their tests are going to a
picnic and field day at the end of the season he
will in all probability decide that he does not wish
to be left out. Thereupon he will go to the in-
structor and sign up for the boys’ club. This will
necessitate his going to the playground not only
three afternoons for playground ball but one
afternoon to practice for his weekly test and on
Friday afternoon to take the test. This means
that the boy will attend the playground regularly
five afternoons where he was previously coming
only two or three.

This boy may have considered volley ball a
“sissy” game. In order to qualify for the boys’
club picnic he must pass all the tests, and to pass
his volley ball test it will be necessary for him
to play at least one game of volley ball under the
leadership of the playground leader. In all prob-
ability he will discover that volley ball is a pretty
good game requiring as much skill, although of a
different sort, as playground ball. ‘As a result,
the boy may start attending the playground sev-
eral nights a week in order to make the volley
ball team for his age group. This same boy in
passing his tests in other activities may become
sufficiently interested in them to become a regu-
lar participant. At least he has the opportunity
of sampling them. \Ve realize that the necessity
for a similar program for girls is just as great,
and next year an attempt will be made to interest
some women’s civic organization in sponsoring a
program for girls.

Of more than 700 boys enrolled, 596 completed
the tests at a per capita cost to the Junior Board
of Trade for the entire season of four—tenths of
a cent. The expenditures of the Junior Board of
Trade consisted of payment for a thousand large
celluloid club buttons and candy prizes for the
picnic at the end of the season.

It is evident that if a boy is busy participating
in playground activities during the hours of two
to nine o’clock five days a week, he cannot at the
same time be on the street engaged in something

(Continued on page 397)

From Dumping
Ground to
Recreation Center

m: CITY OF DIXON, Illinois. furnishes an
T example of what can be done by reclaim-

ing an undesirable tract and creating f rom it
a picturesque recreation center. A few years ago,
according to the Park Board Review of the 11-
linois Association of Park Districts, a beautiful
high school building costing about $700,000 was
built on the shores of the Rock River on land
which had been low river bottom land, much of
it serving as a dumping ground. This had been
done by pumping gravel from the river. It left
the surrounding territory,
however, in an undesirable
condition.

Courtesy Illinois Municipal League

386

 

 

Courtesy Illinois Municipal Loaoue

A parl< board creates beauty From
an unsightly tract of swamp land.

The land in question was inundated each spring
by river waters during the flood season. Through
the careful planning of the late 0. C. Simons, a
landscape architect of Chicago, in cooperation
with the Park Board, plans were drawn to con-
vert the property into a six acre playground and
work was started in December, 1931. It was

completed in November,

The result of the transformationusix acres I932-
0i land ideal For many Forms of recreation,

The tract now embraces
a' river frontage about four
blocks long, ideal for pic-
nics and other recreational activities. Included
in the improvement are three standard asphalt
tennis courts, numerous walks, an outer and
inner asphalt drive and lagoon, all created out
of a wilderness of trees and underbrush. The
improvement was made at a remarkably low
total cost of $18,000, of which $12,745 was
assessed against the city as a public benefit, the
remaining amount being assessed against
private property owners and the Board of
Education.

The park connects with other river front
improvements recently made by the city and
the Park Board. As a result of all the develop-
ments which have been made, Dixon is one of
the outstanding Illinois cities in regard to the
amount of park lands furnished the public.
There is now an acre of park territory for
every thirty-three residents.

What Dixon has done is not beyond the pos-
sibilities of many other communities of
America, especially at a time when relief labor
is almost universally available.

Speedball—

a Community Game

By HELEN M. BARTON

Director of Physical Education for Women
State Teachers College

Clarion, Pennsylvania

OWN THE FIELD comes the forward line. The
ball is theirs! The defense is instinctively
tightening, every player picking an opponent

to mark. It looks like a goal this time. They are
going to kick! What a trap that left guard makes!
The ball is lost, the attack breaks, a score is saved
——for the present at least.

This is not an excerpt from one of Graham
MacNamee’s big game broadcasts; it is only a
tense moment in a local tournament game of
speedball. ‘But it means much to those competing
teams! There is no resounding applause from the
side lines, no thumping of drums by a band to add
to the noisy approval of the last play. There is
only an appreciative grunt arising from the'bleach-
ers where are seated members of other tourna-
ment teams who have witnessed that last strategic
block. Every bleacher-player has mentally mapped
a course whereby such a similar occurrence will
be foiled when his team is on the field. His grunt
of approval of that left guard’s defense means
more than any burst of hollow applause. Such is
the depth of interest in intramural or tournament
speedball with all of its splendid chances for play
rivalry.

Perhaps speedball is a game which is unfa—
niiliar to your community, or the real joy of play-
ing it has only been tasted. It is a sport which
holds the interest of its players whether they be
high school age boys or girls or college age men
or women. There is no stagnation in deve10pment
among its players, for the game is not one in
which high school age players complete their
training and then engage in the sport at college
age with distinct boredom. The advanced com—
binations of hand and foot work in speedball are
a challenge to the expert, but the elementary

 

A highly successful overhead dribble

or juggle play by a center forward.

variations are not so complicated as'to discourage
the beginner. For the most part, it is true, the
game has been almost entirely confined to the use
of schools and colleges. This is unfortunate, how-
ever, for by such limitation community groups
have been missing a most enjoyable form of rec-
reation. Speedball is just as much fun for the
community playground athletes, “Y” players or
any other corresponding high school or college
age groups, as it is in an intramural program.
For recreational use the expense of equipment
is far from prohibitive. The necessities are a
soccer or speedball, two sets of goal posts, made
from wood or from gas pipe lengths, and a bag
of lime for field markings. Individual players
should have basketball or tennis shoes (prefer-
ably the former) and play may be in street clothes
if desired. Of course, from the standpoint of
comfort for the player and general freedom of
movement, some sort of gymnasium uniform is
far better than ordinary clothing. The inexpen-
siveness of the game, for the player or for the
community, is a distinct advantage to both in
these times of decreased recreational budgets.
Field space, which according to regulation mea-
surements is 100 yards by 50 yards, can be easily
adapted to more confined areas. Such adjustment
will in no way detract from the sport of the game,
the style of play nor the interest of the players.

(Cantinurd on page 397)

387

  
  
   
 
   
 

World at Play

AT THE New
York University
Community Cen-
ter, 244 Spring
Street, New York City, a playthings
lending library has been established
known as the “toyery.” The idea
originated with Mrs. Ida Cash, a
probation officer, who found that
many of the children in her care
were getting into trouble because
they stole games and toys which all
children naturally want. Interested
people have donated games and toys
of many kinds and these are being
loaned out to children of families
receiving city relief. The toys may
be kept two weeks when they are
returned and fumigated for the use of new
borrowers.

A New Kind
of Library

CLEVELAND’S

fifty-two school play—
grounds were again in
operation last sum—
mer following a storm of protest by Parent-
Teacher Associations and other neighborhood
groups to the Board of Education which had
originally voted to keep the grounds closed this
year.

Cleveland’s
Playgrounds

ONE of the most in—

teresting features of
the program conduct-
ed last summer by the
Department of Parks, Playgrounds and Public
Buildings of St. Paul, Minnesota, was the mu-
nicipal playground artists’ contest carried on in
the park pavilions from July 9th to August 6th.
Sixteen units were formed with a maximum of
ten and a minimum of five individuals to a unit.
Each unit was made up of musicians, dancers and
similar artists and each had its master of cere-
monies. Every contest for an afternoon perform-
ance was composed of four units, the judges mak-
ing a decision on the presentation of the after-
noon. At the close, when all of the units had been
seen and heard, the final contest was presented,

388

A Contest of
Playground Artists

Courtesy New Bedford
Children’s Aid Society

the best unit being selected as the
winner. The contests were exceed—
ingly popular and were witnessed
by a total of 19,500 people.

THE cost of all

recreation serv—

ices in Berkeley.

California, in-
c l u d i n g municipal playgrounds,
parks and school playgrounds, to—
taled only $105,000 last year, ac-
cording to the annual report
for 1932-1933 of the Recre-
ation Department. The per
capita cost for the service
was $1.22. The previOUs year it was
$1.29. \Vith this drop it is interesting to
note that the services rendered reached
an increased attendance of 207,598. “Ber—
keleyans have stood by their children in
this crisis,” states the report. “Intelli-
gence has overcome hysteria. Standards
have been maintained. Dividends have been paid
and will continue to be paid in the form of
healthier, happier citizens.”

Recreation
Costs

LA S T summer the
School of Education,
Western Reserve Uni—
versity, Cleveland.
Ohio, conducted a garden class for thirty boys
and girls who held their meetings in the school—
room, in the garden and field. Children from
the fourth grade up interested in the out-of-doors
were eligible for membership. An experienced
nature study teacher was in charge. On Mon-
day, \Vednesday and Friday the class met from
8:00 to 11 :00 in a schoolroom. On Tuesday and
Thursday afternoon the children were taken on
hikes, and on other days they worked in their
gardens. In case of rain the children enjoyed
handwork and art. The fee for the six weeks’
course was $10.00.

Garden Classes in
Cleveland, Ohio

UNDER the stress of
increased demands for
recreation by the un—
employed, T o l e d o .

Developments
in Toledo

Ohio, is expanding its recreation program. Under 4

the 1933 budget it will have $40,000 for the work
as compared with $32,000 a year ago.

WORLD AT PLAY 389

For Cleveland’s Summer Program—To raise
money for three park entertainments this sum-
mer, the Mayor’s Recreation Committee. of Cleve-
land, Ohio, on May 23rd held a concert at Public
Hall attended by nearly 7,000 people. The Cleve-
land Orchestra played and a Cleveland composer
and pianist, William A. Becker, played one of his
own compositions.

Music in Ann Arbor——-Free instruction in
playing band and orchestra instruments was pro-
vided last summer at Ann Arbor, Michigan, as a
part of the program of the Vacation Recreation
Association. A limited number of instruments
were provided free of charge to the first appli-
cants. Those taking the instruction gave a con-
cert at the end of the season to demonstrate the
results of the summer’s work.

An Evening of Old Word Dances and Songs

—On June 30th a number of nationality groups
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, under the auspices of
the School Board, Extension Department, pre-
sented an evening of Old World dances and songs
in honor of the American Home Economics As-
sociation which was meeting in the city. Ten na-
tionalities took part in the program of dancing
and music.

The National Playing Felds Assoociation——
The annual report of the National Playing Felds
Association of Great Britain for the period from
May 1, 1932 to April 30, 1933, states that during
the year the number of playing fields or children’s
play centers receiving assistance from the associa-
tion was 132. This increases to 1,090 the new
playing fields known to have been provided since
the national appeal of the association was made
by H.11.I-l. the DUkL of York in 1927. During
this period nine playing fields were given to the
association to hold i1. trust for public use. When
the conveyances of all these sites have been com-
pleted the association will be the guardian of 48
grounds having a total area of 340% acres.

Louisville’s Costume Chest—The Division 'of
Recreation of Louisville, Kentucky, has a cos-
tume chest in which Indians, beetles, Pierrots and
pirates live happily together. Over a thousand
costumes of forty different types assembled from
pageants and similar events are available for ren-
tal at a small fee sufficient to cover the cost of
laundering and repairing the costumes.

 

 

Give Pitching Shoes
In Gaily Wrapped
Christmas Packages

An ideal gift for followers of the game. At‘
tractive. colorful (will brighten anyone’s
Christmas tree). “and of course Diamond
Offlcial Pitching Horseshoes are the choice of
professionals and amateurs the country over.
DrOp forged from heat treated steel. Ac—
curately balanced for perfeCt pitching. They
will not chip or break.

D IA M O N D
Official
Pitching

Horsehoes

  

WRITE

for catatog showing long
fine of pitching shoes
and accessories, rule
books, score pads, etc.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 GRAND AVENUE -- DULUTH, MINN.

 

 

A Large Use of Play Centers—Information
reaching the Association from a number of cities
points to a greatly increased use of recreation fa-
cilities during the past summer. The Recreation
Department of Salt Lake City, Utah, reached ap-
proximately 5,000 people on Friday nights at the
N ibley Park Water Theater and 3,000 people at
the Tuesday night entertainments at Liberty
Park. In Pasadena, California, 10,000 people a
week attended the Thursday and Sunday evening
entertainments at the Gold Bowl and the Friday
and Saturday community dances at the civic audi-
torium. About 800 homeless men attended the
weekly entertainments arranged for them in Se-
attle, Washington, in addition to thousands who
were reached at the regular centers provided by
the Park Department and other agencies.

Where Volunteers Served—Fond du Lac,
Wisconsin, last winter with approximately fifty
volunteers conducted a ten weeks’ program of
outdoor winter activities for youth and adults.
There was an aggregate attendance of approxi-
mately 118,000 people. The recreation commit-
tee of the Chamber of Commerce sponsored the

390 WORLD AT PLAY

 

program; the Park Board provided tools and
equipment to prepare skating rinks and other con-
struction work, and the local civic clubs provided
the trophies. The main activities were skating,
coasting, hockey and polo. Water, lights, coal and
supplies, together with the part time salary of the
recreation director, involved an expenditure of
$562. The supervisors at the skating rink re-
ceived lodging and food, their pay coming from
the Welfare Department.

In a Small Community of Seven Hundred
—\Vhile the population of San Clemente, Cali-
fornia, is normally only approximately 700 peo-
ple, there are recreational facilities totaling in
value several million dollars. Among them are a
golf club, valued at $600,000; a municipal pier,
$55,000; a municipal social club, $II0,000, and a
plunge and beach club, $95,000. The city plaza is
valued at $30,000, while the assessed valuation of
the beach is $300,000. In addition, the city main-
tains 35 miles of bridle paths and two splendidly
lighted tennis courts. Many of these facilities
have been given by private citizens, the social
club being a gift to the city from Ole C. Hanson

who was responsible for founding the community
It may be used by any group in the city. There
is no charge for any of the facilities.

The White House Pool—The idea of giving a
pool to President Roosevelt through popular sub-
scription was. conceived early in March by one of
the newspapers of New York City. In a few
days the campaign was in full swing and not only
did subscriptions pOUr in but offers of equipment
were made by manufacturers throughout the
country. The swimming pool, completed in June,
is 50’ long and 15’ wide with a depth ranging
from 4’ to 8’. Colonial fanlights line the side
walls, affording light and ventilation to the pool
which is located in the corridor in the west ter-
race connecting the White House with the execu-
tive offices. A special effort was made to schre a
decorative effect complementary to the irridescent,
refreshing appearance of water out-of-doors.
Finally a glazed terra cotta was selected for the
pool lining for the sUrrounding wainscot in the
room and for the walls for the rest rooms and
showers. Many combinations of colors were de-
veloped in terra cotta and fired in the kilns. The
result was the creation of three new high fire
colors which, in addition to bluish green and
royal blue, give an aquamarine effect of great
beauty.

Community Center Activities in Cleveland
—The report of the Cleveland, Ohio, Commun.
ity Centers 1932-33 shows a reduction in the per
capita cost from .053 in 1931-32 to .029 in
1932-33. Five fewer buildings were open in
1932-33 than in the previous year and the season
was too weeks shorter; nevertheless there was an
increase in attendance of 58,147.

Because of the inability of many people to pay
the regular fees charged for some of the activi-
ties, they were allowed to participate without
charge in music, dramatics, cards, checkers, ping
pong, boxing, wrestling and other activities which
did not require the services of an instructor. In
the second term weekly entertainments were
given free of charge in all of the centers, special
invitations being distributed through the various
branches of the Associated Charities to families
under its care.

A New Little Theatre Group Organized—
Cleveland Heights, Ohio, is to have its own Little
Theatre gI’OLIp to be known as the Civic Theatre
of Allied Arts. The Division of Public Recrea-

WORLD AT PLAY 391

tion is sponsoring the project which bids fair to
become one of the outstanding leisure time ac-
tivities of the community. The first meeting in
September was attended by seventy-seven pe0p1e.
the majority of whom had majored in dramatics
in their college career and most of whom were
out of employment. A three act play was cast.
but the group was so enthusiastic that it soon be-
came necessary to cast three or four one-act plays
putting them under student leadership. Plays will
be given for the most part in the beautifully
equipped auditorium of the Cleveland Heights
High School.

The Civic Theatre has outlined the following
objectives: To provide dramatic activity for any
interested person in the community; to offer com-
petitive scholarships in the arts; the sponsor and
encourage local play reading; to produce as many
new plays as possible; to encourage professional
producers to bring the better plays, educational
and artistic, to the community; to encourage and
sponsor art exhibits and musicals; to offer the
community artistic and cultural recreation at a
minimum charge; to provide a workshop for
students of the theatre; to make all productions
artistic and worth while, and to help preserve the
theatre for its cultural value as a national
institution.

A Unique Exhibit—The \Vestchester County
Center last summer housed an interesting exhibit

when a 200 of miniature animals was introduced
through the cooperation of Louis Jonas, well
known animal sculptor. The exhibit, showing
groups of animal life from the wilds of darkest
Africa to the plains of North America, was espe-
cially designed to supplement the child’s educa-
tion presenting authentic reproductions of living
animals accurately modeled and scaled. Animals
were reproduced in such materials as white metal,
wax, composition and terra cotta frequantly posed
against topographical settings. The exhibit was
presented under the auspices of the Westchester

Workshop and the Westchester Arts and _Crafts
Guild.

A Parent-Teacher Association Group Pro-
vides a Play Center—A Parent-Teacher Associ-
ation of Monroe, Louisiana, has had a large part
in starting and operating a local school recreation
center. The group first sent out a questionnaire
to the people in the neighborhood of the center
which resulted in requests for the following ac-

At last - SAFETY-

in a Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 
    
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
     
    
   
   
   
     

 

Patent Pending

  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension

clevises are re-
versible, doubl-

ing the life of
the seat.

 

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

392 IVORLD AT PLA Y

tivities in the order listed: dramatics, quilting,
singing, quiet games. The city furnishes lights,
the Board of Education the meeting place, and the
Parent-Teacher Association the leadership.

Juvenile Delinquency Prevention—A total of
I 54 workers are now supplementing the regular
directors at the Los Angeles, California, munici-
pal playgrounds in an effort to decrease juvenile
delinquency through recreational activities. The
additional workers were supplied to the city by
the county from Reconstruction Finance funds.
These workers are following the plan of making
contacts with children who are regarded as prob—
lems from the social service point of view, per-
suading them to come to the municipal play-
grounds where they are organized in recreational
groups and activities.

Activities in Peabody, Massachusetts—The
City of Peabody, Massachusetts, with a popula-
tion of 22,000, is one of the communities which
has so planned its work relief program that the
city has benefited greatly in beautification and fa-
cilities for recreation. Three large playgrounds
are the result. Each contains a baseball diamond
and backstop. Scientifically built tennis courts
and a cement wading pool form a part of the
equipment of the city’s main park. A solid cement
bandstand with tile roof adorns the center. Com-
fort stations, showers and bubblers have been in-
stalled, as well as lunch tables and cement back
benches to seat thousands of people. The work
was done by unemployed men under the leader-
ship of a competent engineer who donated his
services. All material was fUrnished by the city.
The fUnds necessary for the work were raised by
a citizens’ committee.

New Playgrounds in Charleston—Through
the use of R. F. C. funds, Charleston, South
Carolina, opened three new playgrounds under
leadership this year. In addition to the regular
staff of director of recreation and fourteen play-
ground workers, there were six recreation work-
ers paid from relief funds.

The National Education Association Adopts
Its Platform-——The National Education Asso-
ciation in its platform adopted by the representa-
tive assembly at Atlantic City, New Jersey, July
I, 1932, included the following “planks” relating
to the leisure time field:

Labor. No child should engage in premature
or excessive employment that deprives him of the

benefits of comradeship or play and of education.

Cnrricnlzmzs. The educational program should
take into account the interests, needs and abili-
ties of individuals. It should prepare pupils for
cultural, vocational, recreational and civic re-
sponsibilities.

Adult Education. Opportunities should be pro-
vided for adults in every state to enrich the cul-
tural aspects of life, to prepare for parenthood,
to develop personal talents, to improve or to re-
educate vocational abilities, to remedy deficien-
cies in education, and to learn the responsibilities
of social life.

Among the resolutions for 1932 passed at the
meeting was one condemning a number of prac-
tices, among them the following:

Eliminating health, recreational, vocational and
cultural services and activities. This destruction
of the essentials of modern education means re-
turning to a narrow, lockstep, uninspired and in-
efficient program of education.

Brooklyn’s Baby Show-——-More than 3,000
Brooklyn children from a few months to six years
of age walked or rode in baby carriages at the
eighteenth annual Park Department baby parade
held on June 3rd. It was estimated that 20,000
people watched the parade.

New Jersey Produces
(Continued from page 365)

Massachusetts. The work is done in closest co-
operation with the National Recreation Associa-
tion, and the District Representative spends an
hour each Saturday morning in conference with
the Emergency Relief Administration on the de-
velopment of the work. While no specific fund
is set aside by the State Relief Administration the
assurance has been given that leadership will be
provided wherever it is needed during this coming
winter.

The whole project has been a very definite con-
tribution to the recreational needs of the state. In
addition to building up the morale of the people
participating it has been a great source of en-
couragement and strength to local Recreation
Departments and authority.

Reducing the Recreation Budget
(Continued from page 369)

for public provision and the use of public pro-
vision are greater than ever before, be made with

HOME-MADE MUSIC 393

great care and discrimination. There is a prin-
ciple of democracy involved, too. In the field of
education, in some communities more days and
years of schooling are required than in others;
but we recognize public responsibility to provide
education for all. We have not attained this
result in recreation: we recognize the need and
we assume the public responsibility, but only par-
tially and inadequately, and therefore unfairly.
The White House Conference on Child Health
and Protection estimated that at the maximum
the present playgrounds can serve only about
5,000,000 children and that there are 27,000,000
more, of school age, for whom playground serv-
ice, which should be available, does not exist. To
suggest further cuts or eliminations in recreation
budgets is therefore like suggesting a further
amputation for a one-legged man.

While there needs to be in public recreation
budgets as in all other budgets careful scrutiny,
the elimination of all waste, extravagance, and
duplication, and while the recreation budgets
should bear and have borne their fair share in the
necessary cuts to bring our expenditures within
our income, it is not limitation and restriction but
rather extension, to meet the normal need not yet
adequately served, to accept democratically for all
a responsibility now accepted only for a few, and
to meet a special emergency need in these times
of enforced leisure, that is the real demand.

Home-Made Music

(Continued from page 373)

of good music sung and played at home, parents

will have planted a life long interest for their
children.

The spread of the practise of family “sings”
and family musicales will be more stimulating
than all the music instruction that parents can
provide for their children. In fact, it would
vitalize such instruction and make it functional
in the everyday‘lives of the children. These
family “sings” need not be confined to the im-
mediate members of the family. Adult friends
as well as friends of the children may participate.
All too frequently children’s attitudes toward

music become warped as a result of the influence
of their friends to whom music lessons have be-

come a bane or to whom jazz has become a cult
and who spread, by contagion, a harmful influ-
ence. If parents can draw their children’s friends
into the circle of happy music-makers, they may

School Activities

‘The «National Extra Curricular magazine

Our Best Testimonial and proof
of unusual Reader Interest—

1"

. . . . the number of SCHOOL
ACTIVITIES readers has in-

creased 400% during the

depression I

Many of our readers tell us that their copies of
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES are in constant demand not

only in their schools but at church and other
community functions.

Subscription Rate—only $|.50 per year
(“.25 Cash With Order)

THE SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUB. Co.

1013 WEST SIXTH STREET
TOPEKA. KANSAS

 

swing not only their own children, but also their
friends to the side of the music-lovers.

Singing, while the best and most easily'acces-
sible avenue for home-made music, is not the only
one. Instrumental ensembles—duets, trios, quar-
tettes—and solo playing may constitute the core
of many a delightful and well spent afternoon or
evening. Here, too, the family can call upon
friends to participate in the informal home musi-
cale which may consist of singing and playing.

These musicales may be arranged at different
occasions for the children and their friends only,
for the adults and their friends only, or for adults
and children together. The very knowledge that
their parents are actively interested in making
and enjoying good music will radiate a favorable
influence on the children’s attitude. They will
feel that music is not merely an opportunity
for the parents to assume the role of policeman
in enforcing upon them an obligation to practise,
but that music is a pleasure which parents share
with them.

These musicales should be informal, happy 0p-
portunities for voluntary participation by all. Dis-
cussions about music, about composers, about
great performers, about art in general, may grow
out of them. Even folk dancing can be intro-

394 RECREATION AS A PREPARATION FOR LIFE

 

How to Produce a Play

0 Often it falls to the lot of one with
little technical experience to direct a
school, club or community play.

0 The purpose of a handbook just
issued by the National Recreation
Association is to make this task
easier and the results more certain.
“Play Production Made Easy" by g
Mabel Foote Hobbs makes available -.
a method of production tried and
proved over and over again. It of-
fers suggestions on scenery, lighting.
costuming and make-up, and con-
tains a number of pantomimes, skits
and very short plays.

Price $.50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

duced and participated in by everybody. The
phonograph, the radio, the reproducing piano may
be of help in illustrating some point raised in the
discussion or in furnishing the music for folk
dancing or in rounding out the program with an
opportunity for listening to music played or sung
by a great artist or by an ensemble of artists.

The extent of active interest in music mani-
fested by parents will reflect itself in their chil-
dren. There is nothing comparable to good home-
made music for the development of interest, ap-
preciation and good taste in the child. A musical
atmosphere of active participation by the family
in the making of music at home will be conducive
to greater happiness and warmer sympathies be-
tween children and their parents. It will do more
than anything else to make of us a truly musical
nation.

Recreation As a Preparation for Life
(Continued from page 374)
we are as advanced and are using the best
methods and are doing the best kind of work that
can be done for our children in this big city.
I do not think any of us could possibly not be

interested in work of this kind that is being done
for our children. Of course, there are many other
ways of spending leisure time, and many other
ways that give recreation and which the children
should be led to appreciate. I have been thinking
how strange it is that many communities are will-
ing to cut as much as they have their appropri-
ations for libraries, because that is one of the op-
portunities for good use of leisure which should
not be neglected in the children’s education. I am
distressed, at times, to find how little real appre-
ciation there seems to be in many communities of

the educational value a library should have for
children.

Contact With Nature

\Ve are learning every year to appreciate more
and more the outdoors for our children, and for
the children who live in the cities it is more im-
portant than almost anything else, because they
need to know how to really live in the country.
What they learn in their parks and playgrounds
is a preparation for the wider knowledge of the
parks throughout their own states, which I hope,
everyone will learn some day to appreciate, be-
cause we are developing such excellent State Park
systems for the recreation of our people and for
the health of our children. If we appreciate this
necessity, and as the people learn to use these
parks for holidays, so will we improve in health,
and, I believe, in character. For the contact with
nature is a great thing for young people and the
interest which they acquire, and the many inter-
ests which can be developed in outdoor life, cer-
tainly should make it impossible for Satan to find
work for idle hands to do.

I want to congratulate you on the work which
has been done and wish you all success in your
future efforts.

More Time For Play

(Continued from page 375)

ance of his play. It is interesting to watch the
play idea begin in the kindergarten, expand in the
lower grades, take on some form in the middle
grades, become team play in the upper ones and
merge into work in the adolescent years. As a
child plays he will work.

Playground for Relief

By all means, then if money is so scarce that
we cannot have enough teachers shorten the reci-

THE USES OF LEISURE 395

tation time, reduce the number of children before
a teacher at any given time, use the playground
for relief and keep the school going, the teacher
in good health and 'spirits and the children grow-
ing well.

It is a mistake to cut out the playground. It
takes care of more children at a time than any
classroom. It requires less teaching, a smaller
staff and less supervision than any other school
activity, because the children want to be there,
belong there and do well there. Expand the play-
ground and you will help your struggling school.

The Uses of Leisure

(Continued from page 377)

Books are the greatest inheritance of the new
generations. They preserve the wisdom and the
beauty of the race, and carry it as a living, ever-
growing stream. No man can claim education
who does not read constantly. Any one may edu—
cate himself—whether he has ever been to school
and college or not—by wise and wide reading.

Happily the library movement is now so active
in America that books are freely offered to any-
one who will take a little trouble to get them.
Libraries these days are not only storehouses of
books. The modern library has many alert
branches in cities and villages. Through loan col-
lections to schools and churches and clubs and
through book trucks roaming up and down the
rural roads, the library today is pressing its wares
on everyone as aggressively as a Fuller Brush
salesman. No one in America has any excuse for
not reading except his own laziness or his own
stupidity. But those who would really enjoy and
enrich their leisure will not be content simply to
borrow their reading. They will want to own a
part of this literary wealth. A book these days
costs no more than a fat dinner. And happily
both wisdom and brilliance are being made up
into beautiful units of type and binding and for—
mat. In the new era mental food and emotional
raiment are quite as Vital as fodder and over-
coats. In the rapid upswing of the market, books
are commodities in which each of us with great
profit may make investments.

Books are not only the only means of pleasure
and enrichment. But' they are the very basis of
modern civilization. They are a food necessary
to human growth. You can tell pretty well how
far an individual is moving from the mule toward

the human being by the number of books he reads
each month. Newspapers are necessary daily fod-
der, magazines are useful and stimulating, books
are solid meat and joyous drink to anyone who
is really human.

When You Do Your Christmas Planning

(Continued from page 379)

the year is an appropriate occasion for consulting
those resources that may be found in the psy-
chology of the human spirit. It may be that un-
derstanding will be found which defies measure-
ment yet which will enable the vision to pene-
trate into the twilight zones of the uncertainty of
the future which are quite opaque to the trained
statistical eye.

“The poets often possess a vision denied the
scientistsand are wise in unexepected ways. They
know that the spirit of man follows cycles as
truly as climate or economic conditions. The
psychiatrists are today verifying what the artist
has long known. They call it the cyclo-thymic
temperament, which means in the words of the
poet that the spirit of man walks today through
the valley of the shadow of death but tomorrow
it takes the wings of the morning and flies to the
uttermost parts of the sea.”——From Benson Y.
Londis, Federal Council of Churches.

How to Produce a Play
(Continued from page 380)

want to pay money to see him as himself, because
they can see him on the street any day for noth-
ing. They want to see the person he is supposed
to be in this play.

Generally, then, the actor should sink himself
in his 'part and become the character in the play.
It isn’t always easy to squeeze one’s body into
another person’s body, one’s mind into his mind,
and one’s soul into another’s, but that is the es—
sence of true acting.

The director conducting the rehearsals for
character portrayal and emotional sincerity, plays
upon the feelings of his actors, arouses them emo—
tionally and helps them in their characterizations.
The young lady who weeps in the second act feels
enough sorrow to be sincere and avoids the arti-
ficial “boo-hoo” sometimes heard on our stages
The young man playing the old man grows old
and feels old.

396 BE YOUR OWN SILVERS‘MITH!

The amateur has one advantage over the pro—
fessional. He usually gives only a few perform-
ances of one role. His emotional urges last
through these performances. The professional
must go through the same role night after night
and is in danger of becoming “stale” or mechani-
cal. The emotional urge which gives the first few
performances their freshness and sincerity wears
out. The professional must then fall back upon
technique and experience to portray emotions
which he no longer feels. The amateur actor is
naturally what the professional is trying to be by
means of technique.

The Tempo of Playing

The emotion portrayed in the scene regulates
the tempo or speed of playing. Usually a play
has one major tempo running through it. A com-
edy is fast enough to be lively, but slow enough
so that the audience gets the ideas expressed. A
farce tears along at breakneck speed. There is no
sense to a farce and the audience must not have
time to find it out. A tragedy has a slower and
heavier tempo.

To avoid monotony, then, there must be
changes in tempo. These changes are usually due
to emotional reactions.

For example, the family is gathered upon the
stage and the family lawyer rushes in with the
news that some one they’ve never heard of has
just left them a million dollars. What’s the tempo
of the scene? Fast, of course. They shout,
dance, and yell, and the whole scene snaps into
speed. A little later, one of the characters is dy-
ing. The tempo changes. The actors talk and
move more slowly and the entire scene slows
down.

So the director checks up on the tempo, speed-
ing up one scene, slowing down another, creating
variety in tempo as well as sincerity in emotional
expression. The actors also speak with different
tempos; the old man slowly, the young man more
rapidly, thus giving another form of variety.

The usual amateur play is too slow. An act
which should play thirty minutes often plays
forty, the reason being delay in picking up cues.
A play is “speeded up” by talking slowly, and by
picking up cues quickly. Each actor must talk
slowly enough to be understood. He need not
drawl or drag his words, but he must be under-
stood. He counteracts this slowness of speech by
starting the first word of each speech on the last

word of the preceding one. There should not be
a pause between speeches without a definite
reason.

Speeding up the tempo in this fashion improves
the performance a hundred per cent. The jokes
become funny, and the play takes on life and
interest.

The play should be rehearsed for sincerity
until the characters live, and not only the actors
but the spectators feel the emotions that the char-
acters in the play are feeling.

Be Your Own Silversmith!
(Continued from page 38])

remove the acid and apply fresh acid. Continue
this until your design is as deep as you like.
Usually four or live applications of fresh acid are
sufficient. Now heat your bracelet to remove the
wax, wipe off wax and carbon, polish and shape.

Before we leave the subject of acid, let me
caution you about it. Buy a small quantity of it
at a time because it loses its strength with age
after three or four weeks. Ask the druggist to
give you a rubber stopper for it because the
fumes from the concentrated acid particularly
will eat a cork stopper in about a week. In using
it in a medicine dr0pper, always keep it pointed
down as the acid will gradually eat the rubber,
and it may come off in your hands and burn you.
If you are using acid with younger children take
charge of it yourself. If, in spite of all of your
precautions, you do get some acid on you, rub the
place with soapy water or better still, with a piece
of wet soap. This, being an alkali, will neutralize
the acid and stop the burning.

A word about designs. Have them simple and
well spaced. Initials are always good and they
may be utilized as a monogram, in a row hori-
zontally or vertically or put in on a slant. One of
the most effective designs I have seen used on a
bracelet was merely a crescent moon and a pine
tree. We,used very effectively illustrations from
the Milne books, “When We Were Very Young"
and “Now We Are Six.” Or you can do some-
thing with Indian symbols either singly or by
using several of them to tell a story.

All of the bracelets described have been an
inch wide, but you can cut your strip in half
lengthwise and have two bracelets for the price
of one. For a hammered one this is often daintier.
These bracelets are very inexpensive. When we
made them at camp we paid 15 cents for a 6 inch

WAGING WAR ON JUVENILE DELINQUENCY ' 397

strip and that covered the cost of all necessary
tools and equipment as well. Now that we have
the tools we are making them for 10 cents, and
don’t forget that that will make two bracelets!
Five cents for a silver bracelet that will stand
wear and give you a great deal of pleasure! I
have been asked if these German silver bracelets
would tarnish. The best answer to that is that
I’ve been wearing one for six months and it is as
polished as it was the day I made it. The only
difficulty that we have found with them is that in
extremely hot weather they make your arm green,
but that doesn’t affect the appearance of your
bracelet, and sterling silver may do the same
thing.

When you would like to do something a little
different in a short time, get some silver and try
being your own silversmith!

Waging War on Juvenile Delinquency

( Continued from page 385.)

which will cause him to become a juvenile court
problem.

As to the efficiency of the program from the
point of view of numbers brought in, a percentage
rating of the number of cases on which informa-
tion was gathered at the beginning of the season
who became regular playground attendants would
not be a true criterion of the value of the program.
For example, the playground situated in a more
fortunate community would naturally not have as
many cases referred to it as a playground situ-
ated in a high delinquency area. However, in the
case of the playground in a delinquency area, be-
cause of the low economic status of the residents.
a large number of cases referred to the play-
ground naturally became regular participants be-
cause family trips, camps and other activities
which would withdraw the child from the play-
ground were an economic impossibility. On the
other hand, many of the children of the more
fortunate community were out of town or at—
tending camp, with the result that a much smaller
proportion of the cases referred actually became
regular playground attendants.

At Highland Park Community Center, situated
in one of the delinquency areas of the city, 68 per
cent of the cases referred to us became regular
playground attendants. In the two playgrounds
having the second and third largest number of
cases referred the percentage dropped down to 41

per cent in one case and 34 per cent in the other.
To understand truly these situations, however, it
is necessary to know that Highland Park has had
comparatively few instances of families moving
away from that community while in the case of
the other two neighborhoods the population of
the areas is largely transient. These factors and
others too numerous to mention make impossible
a comprehensive statistical study of the efficiency
of the juvenile delinquency program. Moreover
play leaders of the recreation staff are too busy
with other duties, and the budget does not permit
hiring additional help.

Our experiment is not the complete answer to
the problem, but we do feel that such a preventive
piece of work as we have initiated is a step in the
right direction.

Speedball~A Community Game
(Continued from page 387.)

For those not acquainted with speedball, it may
be advisable to include a brief description of the
game, which may be said to involve the elements
of basketball, soccer and field ball. It is suitable,
as has been mentioned, for boys and girls and

 

Read This Letter

“When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book —
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens

of times already. It is, indeed, the
Pool Bible.

“(Signed)
“CAPT. EDW. H. MCCRAHON.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo.
Capt. McCrabon was for seven years manager of

Spa Municipal Pool and Beach. St. Petersburg, Fla.

Send For a Copy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoiiman-Harris, Inc.
114 E. 32nd STREET NEW YORK CITY

 

398 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

The American City, September, 1933.

Park and Playground Development—A Present
Opportunity, by Harry Tucker.

Profitable Use of Present Opportunities for Park
Improvement—Perth Amboy, N. J.

The Survey Midmonthly, August, 1933.

A Community Learning How to Play, by Ruth A.
Lerrigo.

The Parents’ Magazine, October, 1933.

Fun for the Stay-At-Home Child, by Maude Cush-
ing Nash. o

Child Welfare, October, 1933.
What About Play? by J. W. Faust.

The Rotarian, October, 1933.
Lawn Bowling—Rival of Golf, by Jim Spencer and
Ken Bixby.
Give a Boy 9. Hobby.

Education, September, 1933.
Art As an Avocation, by E. Leigh Mudge.
A Theatre for Children, by Charles R. Rounds.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
September, 1933. .

The Contribution of Physical Education to Com-
munity Recreation, by Alfred 0. Anderson.

A Study of Touch Football Rules, by H. Harrison
Clarke.

Federal Aid for Leisure (editorial).
Volunteer Recreation Leadership (editorial).

Child Welfare, September, 1933.
Building a Child’s Library, by Vera Winifred Schott.

The Library Journal, September, 1933.
The Pattern of Leisure, by Ernest H. Wilkins.
Leisure and the Library—Vocations, by Robert
Hoppock.

A Leisure Time College, by Harriet A. Harvey.
Books for Unemployed Youth, by Julia Osborne.

PAM PH LETS

Annual Report for the Year I 932 —Municipal Council
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Toys That Teach
The Embossing Company. Albany, N. Y.

Directory of Part-Time Educational Opportunities for
Men and Women in Chicago

Adult Education Council of Chicago, 224 South
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Ill. Free.

Report of the Westchester County Park Commission
1933.

 

also for adults, with proper rule adjustments for
the varying age groups. The object of the game
is to propel the ball by hand and foot methods
through or over the opponent’s goal line. In line-
up and distribution of players, soccer technique
prevails. The introduction of the basketball form
of play, however, adds more interesting forms of

- handling the ball than is afforded by soccer where

only footwork is permitted. The field ball idea of
aerial passing is likewise a new feature, and in no
American sport today will the community recre-
ation leader find such a game of varying appeals
to both beginner and expert player.

The fact that there are eleven members on a
team, twenty-two players making up the two
teams, creates a situation which will afford the
coach many chances for socialization of commun-
ity elements. This idea is the basis of any modern
physical education program in schools and col-
leges, but there is no reason why the same prin-
ciples should not be practiced with any team,
whether it be composed of factory employees or
varsity material. Educationalists have emphasized
this idea that unity of work and play, which is
the seed of all team work, has done much to
foster common interest on the campus, whether
it has been obtained through intramural or varsity
means. Community interests'will be found to be
cemented more lirme by exactly the same pro-
cedure, the only difference being that perhaps in
the beginning the elements are more diversified.
Games which have been looked upon as leading
to commendable results are basketball, soccer,
volley ball, baseball, and in some localities, hockey.
Speedball should be added to this list also.

From the viewpoint of equipment, space and
players, speedball fulfills all needs of community
groups as satisfactorily as it does those on educa-
tional institutions where it has been heretofore
most frequently used. A more accurate descrip-
tion of the game for women and girls can be
found in iNeilson and Van Hagen’s Physical
Education for the Elementary Grades.* Rules
for men and boys may be obtained by writing to
the American Sports Publishing Company, 45
Rose Street, New York. When the rules have
been mastered by the coach and the play is started
it will be noted that teams thoroughly enjoy the
exhilaration of speedball.

Give your community the new thrill of playing
speedball!

 

* Published by A. S. Barnes 8: Co.

New Books on Recreation

 

Ventures in Informal Adult Education

By Thomas H. Nelson. Associated Press, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York. $1.00.

IT Is THE purpose of this book to present a picture of
typical informal adult education as carried on in
Young Men’s Christian Associations. It is primarily a
collection of descriptions of program offerings—fifty-
three are presented—showing how each was started and
promoted, what topics were covered, who the leaders
were and what educational methods were used. In his
introduction Dr. George B. Cutten, President of Colgate
University, points out that the material presented may
be applied to various community groups. “I commend
this study, therefore, not only to those interested in
Young Men’s Christian Association work but to all who
are interested in solving the problem of leisure, which we
must solve if our civilization is to 'be saved.”

Old Folk Dances From New Nations

By Edith M. Gates. Clayton F. Summy Co., New York.
$1.00.

ESTONIA, Latvia, Poland and Russia are the new na-
tions evolving from the World War, a number of
whose dances are presented here with illustrations, music
and directions. These dances—there are twelve of them
——-are given because of the possibilities in them for social
recreation among adult groups. They also have possi-
bilities, Miss Gates points out in'her preface, for school
programs for junior and senior high schools and for
college folk dance groups. Recreation leaders will find
them practical and adaptable.

How to Play Lawn Tennis

By J. Parmly Paret. American Lawn Tennis, Inc., 500
Fifth Avenue, New York. $.50.

‘ VERYTHING You Need to Know About the Game” is

the subtitle of this book which contains chapters
on instructions, ofIicial rules and tournament regulations
and suggestions which will help in solving many doubt-
ful points of play and procedure. There are full in-
structions for laying out grass and playing surfaces, as
well as suggestions on the 1best methods of maintaining
them afterward. The book is profusely illustrated with
diagrams and with photographs of the most expert play-
ers making the strokes during, actual play.

Designs For Tooled Leather (Book I)

By Louise C. Hoefer, Glendale, California. $1.00.

N 'rms COLLECTION Mrs. Hoefer offers a collection of
designs of different sizes and shapes which may be
applied to many leather articles just as they are or may
be enlarged or adapted to other purposes. Some of the

motifs could be used for block printing, metal work,
carving, enameling or other decorative work. This book
is confined to the modern style. It will be followed soon
with another group of twelve plates using the Renais-
sance and other conventional types of design for tooled
leather.

Zoological Parks, Aquariums and

Botanical Gardens

By L. C. Everard. The American Association of Mu-
seums. New Series, Number 12, Washington, D. C.

$1.00.

N ADDITION to such areas as the National Parks and

Monuments, Primitive Areas and Research Areas of
the National Forests, State Parks, and State and Federal
bird and game refuges described in publications of the
State and Federal governments, there are certain areas
under the control of conservation organizations of
various kinds which support many species of native
plants and animals and may afford opportunities to the
scientist and the student of nature. The American Asso-
ciation of Museums has brought together in pamphlet
form information about some of these areas, including
zoological parks, aquariums and botanical gardens.

Sportplatzbau als Problem der

Stadtplanung

By. Dr. Ing. Arthur Manthey. Rudolph & Meister, Kas-

sel, (Germany). $1.84.
IN THIS VOLUME is to be found a discussion of the sys-

tematic planning of outdoor facilities for gymnas-
tics, play and sports as a requirement of the times and
the task of the city planner. The author points out it is
the responsibility of the city planner to consider space
for play and sport in the light of national needs. Only
when the provisions of national legislation concerning
the building of cities become a framework in which
state legislation may operate will it be possible to solve
the playground and athletic field problem through the
working out of systematic plans. Every city planner of
the younger generation must familiarize himself with
legislation covering property condemnation, building
ordinances and similar matters. He must know the real
estate situation, the value of property, the possibility for
the acquisition of public and private playgrounds, the
conditions under which properties may be held, the func-
tions of the individual types of play spaces and their
dimensions. Coming generations of city planners must
be inspired with the ideal which the German Committee
for Physical Education has set up of “adequate, easily

reached, efIicient and beautiful recreation and play space
for all.”

399

400 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Social Planning and Adult Education

By John W. Herring. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $1.25.

Chester County, Pennsylvania, a community of 129,258
peOple scattered over an area of 777 square miles, in 1928
undertook an unusual task combining the physical plan-
ning of town and region with the social and cultural
planning of health, social service and the arts. This in-
teresting experiment was made possible through grants
from the Carnegie Corporation through the American
Association for Adult Education. Recreation workers
will be particularly interested in reading of the part
played 'by the Recreation Commission in the general
plan. Through the publication of this book a contribu-
tion has been made to the literature on community
organization.

Municipal Golf Courses in the United States
(with Statistical Information)

Public Links Section, United States Golf Associa-
tion, New York.

At the time the Public Links Section was established
in February, 1922, there were fewer than 100 municipally
operated courses in the United States. In 1932, 213 cities
and county park commissions reported a total of 329
courses. Information regarding these golf courses is
given in the most recent edition of this pamphlet.

I

The Youthful Offender

By Harry M. Shulman. Sub-Commission on Causes
New York State Crime Commission, Albany, New
York. $1.00 postpaid.

This statistical study of crime among the sixteen to
twenty year age group in New York City involves a con-
sideration of 3,498 individuals arrested for major
charges. The factors taken into account included an
analysis of the crimes and of the dispositions of felony
cases, an examination of the various steps in criminal
procedure as it affected this group, of technical proced-
ures, of social background as related to the criminal rec-
ords of young prisoners, and the mapping out of main
crime areas in New York City, on the basis Of residence
of the adolescent age group of offenders, as a means of
directing the focus of crime prevention programs.

Explorin the Times

American Library Association, 520 North Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Under the title Exploring the Times, the American
Library Association has issued a series of reading courses
dealing with world events. A few men close to public
affairs were asked to outline for the general reader the
broad sweep of events leading up to the present and to
select a few outstanding books and pamphlets which
help to explain the forces at work, the resulting issues
and how they can be met. Five booklets are the result—
World Depression— World Recovery, by Harry D.
Gideonse; Collapse or Cycle? by Paul H. Douglas; Liv-
ing with Machines, by William F. Ogburn; Meeting the
Farm Crisis, by J. H. Kolb; Less Government or M ore?
by Brownlow and Ascher. The booklets may be secured
for 25 cents each; the entire set for $1.00.

The Great Technology

By Harold Rugg. The John Day Company, New
York. $2.50.

It is significant that in this book which lays down the
principles indispensable to a new synthesis of economic
reconstruction and outlines a new social order in which
the creative energies of man will be released, a chapter
is devoted to “Leisure, Labor, and Art.” In the new
social order, as the author conceives it, all people will
engage in creative, expressive activities. “Leisure will

be an actuality for all, but its enjoyment will not be
through devices for escape. Indeed it will be a supple-
mental means of personal cultivation.” Again the author
says: “Our social order will be great, not because the
twelve hour day becomes the four hour day but beoause

work .of any prolongation becomes a happy and creative
experience."

Colonel Stoopnagle and Budd’s
Are You a Sacred Cow?

Published by Tilley and Sherman, New York. $1.00.

Here are ingenious tests in the form of an entertain-

ing game which will quickly determine how well your
mental processes functionl

A Survey of Work For Boys in Brooklyn

Welfare Council of New York City. $2.00.

The seventh study made by the Research Bureau of
the Welfare Council of New York City was a survey of
work for boys in Brooklyn which would provide Brook-
lyn social agencies with information helpful in planning
their programs of service. The purpose was to give the
general “lay of the land” as regards the organized serv-
ice to boys in the borough, to measure roughly the needs
of neighborhoods for additional recreational and social
service for children, and to learn something of what
adolescent boys themselves think of their social-recrea-
tional affairs. The findings of the study, which are de-
tailed and presented in an interesting manner, will com-
mend themselves to all recreation workers.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAvus T. KIRDY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, 11].
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valle , L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West range, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARRNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y. .
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Indu
MR5. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAvvs T. KIRDY New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
REDERICR M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
OHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.
RS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, Jr... Tucson, Ariz.

