l Work Becomes Play

' ITH ten to twelve million men idle work has become such a luxury that
w the thought of a job is as the thought of a most satisfying sport. Work
has now become recreation——something to be dreamed about. to be

longed for, to be attained.

And leisure has become a hateful word to those who have it, to those
who may have it tomorrow. And to none is it more hateful than to the three I
hundred to four hundred thousand young boys and girls who have never I
known the delight of a job—who wander from place to place not knowing .
what to do.

Play ceases to be play in a world of work when there is no work. i'

When man invented the first tool a process began which will ultimately
mean that most of the work of the world will be done by machines which I
will be our slaves. L

The present lack of work will in a measure be overcome, but ultimately
man is doomed to lose much of the present work of the world and to lose it
permanently.

Suppose today that the United States suddenly became, as to need for
work for all, as the South Sea Islands, and unemployment did not longer
mean hunger, cold, lack of shelter. Suppose men were free to do what they
chose. What would they choose—what would mean progress or what would

‘ mean retrogression?

Fortunately the growth of the era of leisure and comparative unemploy-
ment for all will be gradual and there is opportunity to expose all to the va—
rieties of human activities, the varieties of human skills, and for men to find

. what are the traits that give permanent satisfaction and what ways lead only
to disillusionment.

The future depends. however, on the extent to which men and women
in succeeding generatlons are glven the opportunity to form habits of use of
free time in ways that are permanently satisfying to them.

i

The ultimate abolition of drudgery, the leaving of the hard work of
the world to machines can be a great thing for mankind and it can doom
the human race. Control and discipline and skill in the periods of leisure
are a matter of development through generations and centuries.

Training for leisure is generations behind schedule now. Yet it is not
too late if the educational effort be well directed and strongly supported.
Leisure must mean freedom With control—and self-control with freedom.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

February, l933

 

      

"We are anxious to see American communities,
large and small, reach Firmly after their birth-
right-a heritage of beauty on every hand.
We wish to see cities, towns and suburbs sur-
rounding themselves with Fine vistas ol: Flowers,
trees and shrubs of a stirring attractiveness.
Ugliness dulls the senses; beauty enriches
the lives of all who experience it and we courtesy “Better Home: and Gardens”
I

would keep alive ideals oF beauty." From Homes
and Gardens More Beautiful America Contest.

506

   

Insurance
gainst
rime

By

EWIS E. LAWES

Warden of
Sing Sing Prison

 

Caurtcsg' Seattle Department or Parks

Seattle is one of the cities in which parks and play-
grounds are proving a form of insurance against crime.

    
  
 
 

MERICA’S heaviest burden is her crime bill.
Estimated at over thirteen billion dollars, it
is still out of all proportion to her other
rge expenditures. It has always seemed to
‘18 that our apathy in the face of this large
irain upon our resources is due to the fact that
{e have become accustomed to think in large
umbers. We lead the world in manufacture,

industry, in agriculture, in education and
nance. It is no surprise, therefore, to find

u

that we lead in homicide, in suicide, in crimes
of violence, and in general delinquency. \Ve
do not often realize that the institutions we
are building so elaborately are insecure, If
planned without coordination of all its various
parts.

It has been well said that \merica’s stability

is reflected in the enormous insurance business

that has developed in the last fifty years. We
not only insure business against all hazards,

507

508 INSURANCE AGAINST CRIME

but we have also learned the value of insurance
against want in old age. Life insurance to pro—
tect our dependents is saving countless num-
bers of widows and orphans from destitution
and suffering. One form of insurance we have
been slow to adopt. It is the protection that
will yield most satisfying results. Its cost is
less than one-tenth of the bill we are now
paying for unprotected losses.

The average citizen’s reaction to the crime
problem can be summed up in a few words.
“Hang all those who kill; send the rest of the
criminals to prison for life; sterilize the men-
tally defective; spank the juvenile offender and
send him to bed.”

The Major Problem

We might succeed with everything but the
juvenile offender. He won’t stay put. He is
our major problem, the prolific provider of
reformatories, jails and prisons. America’s
crime problem will never be solved until we
13nd an effective means for combating juvenile
delinquency. The situation is not peculiar to
Richmond or Virginia, or to any particular
city or state. It is nation-wide. And it is
important in welfare campaigns because we
have come to realize that delinquency gener-
ally is not a police problem but a social re—
sponsibility. Unless our agencies that have
to do with intimate social conditions are en-
couraged, financially and morally, to carry on,
increased police budgets will not avail us.

The ideal American civilization should have
no need of prisons and reformatories. I make
this statement advisedly, knowing that I may
be talking myself out of a job. A sound gov-
ernment will have less need of criminal courts
with their cumbersome organizations and vast
expenditures. It should have less need for
intricate detective forces and police systems.
If we are to aim for reductions in all these
departments, with consequent reductions in
taxes to the average citizen, we should pay
more attention and be will—
ing wholeheartedly to sup—
port all those agencies that
have to do with preparing
our youth for responsible
citizenship. It is in that
spirit that I urge the peo—
ple of Richmond to award
their welfare organizations,

At the opening meeting of the Commun-
ity fund campaign of Richmond, Virginia,
Warden Lawes made a strong plea for the
support of local organizations caring for
the leisure time of young people, and
urged the importance of the recreation
center program. Mr. Lawes is the author
of "20,000 Years in Sing Sing," a book
every recreation worker should9 read.

 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

their Boys’ Clubs, their Y. M. C. A.’s, the
Boy Scouts, their recreation centers, sufficie
sinews of war to carry on.

I have been the warden of Sing Sing Pris
for over ten years, and have been connect
with penal and correctional institutions f
over twenty-five years. I have known, m
or less intimately, over forty thousand
who at one time or another have been inma
of the various institutions wherein I labor
I can state positively that over 97 per cent
all these men, young and old, were at no ti
associated with well regulated juvenile gro
or supervised recreation centers. Theirs
been the story of aimless leisure, of unadjus
personalities, of wrong steers in early life,
drifting along the lines of least resistance.

Speaking as one who has to do with ad
misfits, I feel that in the case of nearly ev
one of my wards an appraisement of individ
adaptabilities in childhood with sympathe
guidance would have saved the prisoner bef
me to better life.

Last year more than 25,000 lads of the s'
teen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen ye
old group came before the magistrates of t
City of New York. This rate would probab
hold in other communities as well. This
the group from which our criminals are co
ing. It is my experience that in prisons ma
of the inmates have been normal except in t
processes of their environment.

Years ago the wayward child and ad
criminal were thought to be bewitched. p
sessed of evil spirits and dealt with accor
ingly. Biological heredity was the expla
tion a century or two ago. One school
criminologists regards disease as the pri
factor in crime, others ascribe it to mere ..
ness. Improper nourishment, deficient in
tality, poverty, broken homes, poor schooli
and a score of additional reasons are given I
delinquency. The fact of the matter is t
none of these factors alone is the produci
cause. No nationality
race is especially susce
ble. Nor is juvenile de
quency always restricte
particular neighborhoo

No child or man is b
to crime. Circumsta
plays an important par
the life of every delinqu

l

INSURANCE AGAINST CRIME 509

I

+ s in that of every criminal. Arrested mental

' levelopment, deficient or utter lack of charac-

ter training, neglected or non-directed voca-
ional training, are at the root of a great deal
of juvenile delinquency.

A recent survey of a sub-committee of the
ew York Crime Commission shows that
voung thieves display marked aptitude for

echanical work and obvious ability along
hat line. They found also that problem boys
re duller in intelligence than their normal
lbrothers and though, on the average, inferior
to their brothers in school work, they were not
only superior to their normal brothers in me-
chanical ability but were also smarter in that
line than a group of unselected school children
who were older than they.

T

America’s Crime Bill

\\'e may be justly proud of America’s school
Tbill. And it is serving well its purpose. But
,many of us will be shocked to know that 87
'per cent of our delinquents and criminals have
had some school training. We cannot lay their
delinquency at the door of our schools. Boys
do not get into trouble during school hours or
when they are at home. Spare time and leisure
have become the serious periods of every boy’s
life. The way ultimately to cut down the
great overhead in penal institutions and to re—
duce the number of those who are being sen-
tenced by the courts is to provide supervised
leadership and regulated leisure. I am con-
vinced that in the areas where such leadership
exists, and that is nearly always in congested
areas where there is little
.play. there is marked re-
'duction in delinquency.

Education is more than
teaching of facts. The
child learns as much in
the streets as in class-
rooms: consequently the
guiding arm of the school
must accompany the pupil
beyond actual school limits.

That leisure is an im-
portant factor in school-
ing was recognized by ed-
ucators throughout the
ages. The ancient Greek
'philosopher taught that

 

Courtesy Recreation Board, Greenwich, Conn.

The greatest benefits accrue when -
insurance policies are taken out
early in life. This is particularly
true of insurance against crime!

“preparation for the right use of leisure should
be the chief end of education.” It is a most
potent influence in encouraging a clean out-
look on life. Boys as well as adults will play
in groups. The boy who is a member of a
gang cannot be effectively treated, except in

relation to the life of the group of which he is
a part.

It is in providing proper recreation for the
leisure time of the young men and women of
school age and beyond that welfare agencies
can render highly constructive and greatly
needed service. It avails nothing to decry the ‘
pool room, public dance hall and gang “hang—
out,” which tend to throw the young out of
adjustment with society’s requirements, if
something is not provided to properly direct
inherent impulses.

Preventive Measures

Prevention is' always less costly than cure.
The expense of maintaining proper juvenile
welfare agencies is less than one—tenth the
cost of operating reformatories and prisons.
Unless we plan to supervise the spare time of
youth in this modern day when there are so
many incentives to draw boys away from the
quality of character and rectitude, society will
be in a hopeless tangle in the days not so far

ahead.

Delinquency is a group offense; hence it
should be treated objectively through group
association. Boys’ clubs and kindred organiza-
tions help to translate the
gang spirit into healthful
and constructive activities.

In the all-inclusive cos-
mOpolitanism of our cities
with their patchwork of
distinct communities, a
common platform, an
amalgamation of all or-
ganizations that have to
do with child and juvenile
welfare, would enhance
the work of those agen-
cies for broader and far
reaching results. Above
all, there must be the re-
alization that courts and

 

 

510 INSURANCE AGAINST CRIME

instltutions, either cor—
rective or reformative,
can have no real influ*
ence on child behavior
or adjustment. We do
not hesitate to scrap
warships or intricate
machinery that repre—
sent investments of
millions, if we feel that
they are outworn or
below standard; but we
cling to time-worn so—
cial and legal customs,
despite their proven denciencies. Experience
of many years in all forms of penal and cor-
rective institutions, juvenile and adult, has
convinced me that the juvenile delinquent will
not respond to coercive atmosphere of the

court room, to the repressive or oppressive
institutionalism.

No law can regulate the conduct of the lad
Whose natural play instinct leads him to back
alleys and dark corners for lack of more wholee
some association. No police pressure can bring
comfort to the child of foreign parents who
constitute so large a part of our prison popu-
lation, who does not find a natural response 1n
intimate home atmosphere.

Recent disturbances in various prisons
throughout the country have suddenly awak-
ened our interest in prison conditions. It is,
of course, important that we have adequate
housing for our prisoners. Food, clothing,
sanitary conditions, sufficient labor, vocational
training, all these are essential if we are to re-
turn our wards to society whole in spirit, with
health unimpaired and mentally balanced. In
our haste to ameliorate immediate conditions,
we are apt to lose sight of the far more ims
portant objective—that of finding the way to
empty our prisons, of reducing delinquency
and crime to an extent that will avoid the ne—
cessity for building more prisons with more
impregnable prison walls.

A Social Problem

Unless we approach the crime problem as a
social problem affecting the social structure as
a whole, without individual preferences or pre-
conceived notions, we shall not meet the situ-
ation squarely. This presupposes the recogni—

To keep men and women, young boys and girls
from despair, from the hideous boredom of hav-
ing nothing to do, from the crushing sense of not
being wanted, of having no place in society and
no work to do, of being a problem and not a
human being—that is the real task of philanthropy
in these long dreary days. And for that task ex-
traordinary efforts will be required from those
social agencies which devote themselves not to
feeding the starving but to providing entertain-
ment, and interests, and sociability, and advice,
and friendliness and all those imponderable ne-
cessities which make men self-respecting and con-

fident. Walter Lippmann, in the New York Herald
Tribune, October 20, 1932.

tion that every del'
quent is a social un
a continuing social
sponsibility of the s
cial order. This, as
matter of course, tak
us back to youthful a
vironment and in
ences, and in that
spect we are all grav
concerned with all t
problems of youthf
behavior.

Each year I ask f
increased appropriations for Sing Sing Priso
and when I see mounting millions that t
state must spend in order to rehabilitate 0
state institutions, my mind goes back twen
years or more when society might have sav
thousands of these unfortunates from lives c
crime and from penal service by encouragin
and guiding youth through years of adole
cence.

To those of us who look toward the futu
as it concerns the children of today who a
to be the toilers of tomorrow, above and b
yond prison and parole, comes the thought f
the youngster who is seeking guidance that i
justly his, for companionship that is hi
natural due, for normal play that youth (1
mands, for association and training that a pra
tical world makes necessary.

To afford the child such opportunities shoul
be a primary undertaking in every communit
It is the highest type of group insuranc
against delinquency and crime.

Boys’ clubs and kindred associations an
councils really reach the heart of the proble
of juvenile delinquency. The Union Leagu
Foundation of Chicago went into the commu
nity which led the entire city in juvenile delin
quency, with 1,344 boys arrested in 1920. Nin
months’ operation reduced the arrests to h
the following year reduced them still furthe
to 592, and in 1928 they did not exceed 27
The City of Milwaukee by an elaborate syste
of playgrounds and boys’ clubs has reduced it.
juvenile delinquency about 50 per cent.

Though I understand that last year saw a1
increase of juvenile delinquency in Richmond
I do not believe that Richmond suffers an

(Continued on page 545)

 

 

, Problems of Increasing Leisure

      
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  

S HAS frequently been
pointed out, men work

fewer hours per day
nd per week and the home
sks of women are less time—
onsuming; child labor has
een greatly reduced, and
hough school time has been
xtended, children may share
it growing leisure no less
han their parents.

To profit by the potential market offered by in-
reasing leisure, many forms of amusement or
ecreation have been provided on a commercial
asis, as for instance, moving pictures, automo-
ile touring, travel, radio, boxing, tennis, golf,
aseball, football, dancing, and “resorts.” On
ese and similar recreations in the late 1920’s our
xperts show that we spent 10 to 12 billion dol-
rs a year. The curves of growth for most of
I ese expenditures show steep slopes. Seemingly
' e spend more time, certainly we spend more
l
I

A

readers.

I ioney on these modern diversions than our fore-
' athers spent on their typical recreations of fish-
g, hunting, riding and visiting.

How best to use growing leisure hours is an
i dividual problem in which society has a large
ake. Americans have but scanty traditional
uipment for amusing themselves gracefully and
holesomely. Advertisements set forth what our
refathers would have called temptations. We
~ e urged to yield to their enticements by notions
f human nature which differ radically from
1086 entertained even in our own childhoods.
. an is not a machine, we say; his nature is not
apted to long hours of work at repetitive tasks;
creation is a physiological need as much as

0d; if wisely chosen it is good for both mind
(1 body.

Supervision of Leisure

In our early history what recreation was in-
lged in remained under the aegis of the home
the community, except for certain scarcely re-
ectable types. \Ve still feel that the recreation

After three years study, the President's
Research Committee on Social Trends
has made its report. One section of the
report deals with the problems presented
by increasing leisure. We give here the
official summary issued by the committee
of which Wesley 6. Mitchell is chairman.
In later issues of the magazine will ap-
pear more detailed information on sec-
tions of the report of interest to our

of other people should be
supervised; but clearly the
home cannot exercise effici-
ent supervision when recre-
ation, because of the greater
mobility of people for profit
making reasons, is provided
in the form of mass enter-
tainment. A growing pro-
portion of people admit that
workers on machines or in
shops and offices need recreation, and many of
them also demand that the municipality or State
assume censorship and control. On the other
hand, we see evidence of rising impatience with
government supervision of people in their free
hours. One of the problems which will still need
attention in supplying this almost insatiable hun-
ger for amusement and diversion is to devise a
method by which the standards held essential by
the community may be protected, at the same time
allowing for the free play of new ideas and. en—
tertaining novelties.

By virtue of commercialization, the problem of
leisure is bound up with purchasing. Not only
automobiles, radios and theatre tickets, but also
many objects of household decoration or personal
adornment are bought to make leisure hours more
enjoyable. By way of evidence concerning our
national scale of values, consider the following
miscellaneous list of American expenditures in
1929: 200 million dollars were spent on Bowers
and shrubs, 600 million on jewelry and silver-
ware, 400 million on newspapers, “'00 million dol-
lars on cosmetics and beauty parlors, 900 million
on games and sports, 2,000 million on motion
pictures and concerts, and 4.000 million on home
furnishings. The outlays upon some items in this
list have been heavily cut during the depression;
but there is little doubt that expenditures upon
recreations and indulgences of many kinds will
tend to rise in the future as per capita income
grows. Study of famin budgets shows that as
available income rises, smaller percentages of the
total are spent on such essentials as food, rent,

Sll

512 PROBLEMS OF INCREASING LEISURE

fuel and light, while larger percentages are spent
on miscellaneous items. These facts concerning
present expenditures contain a forecast of
changes in the allocations of average family bud-
gets in the future.

Competition for Interest

Business, with its advertising and high pressure
salesmanship, can exert powerful stimuli on the
responding human organism. How can the ap-
peals made by churches, libraries, concerts, mu-
seums and adult education for a goodly share in
our growing leisure be made to compete effec—
tively with the appeals of commercialized recrea-
tion? Choice is hardly free when one set of in-
Huences is active and the other set quiescent“.
From one and a half to two billion dollars were
spent in 1929 on advertising—“how much of it in
appealing for use of leisure we do not venture to
guess. Whether or not the future brings pro-
nounced irritation with the increasing intrusions
upon our psychological freedom by advertise-
ments, the problem of effecting some kind of
equality in opportunity and appeal as between
the various types of leisure time occupations, both
commercial and non-commercial, as between those

 

Courtesy Westchester County Recreation Commission

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

most vigorously promoted and those witho
special backing needs further consideration.

The growth of great cities with the accompan
ing overcrowding has interfered with leisu
time activities in another way, namely, by lea
ing space neither sufficient nor safe for acti
outdoor play. While the newer trends outwar
from the most congested central portions of th
districts may relieve the deficiency in part, t
reservation of necessary areas or the provision u
equivalent facilities of other types remains as
problem for many communities.

The development by the government of par
playgrounds, camping places and bathing beach
is an attempt to solve the problem. In rece
years since automobiles have been common
used, the natural scenery of our country has be
enjoyed much more than ever before. This e
joyment has been facilitated by the policies u
Federal and State government in setting asi
from private use for the enjoyment of futu
generations places of great natural beauty
which our country is singularly rich. Among t

There is an increasing appreciation of the com-
mon obiects which surround us in our daily lives.

  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  

  

‘ portunities offered by the broader range ot

' odern recreation there are few affording deeper

l d more lasting satisfaction than the contempla-

, n of the scenes of nature. Indeed, one of the

nunon bonds of experiences among men of all

. oups and types is the enjoyment of natural
auty.

  

Place of the Arts in the Social Scheme

' Not only in passive enjoyment but in practice,
t touches our hours of leisure much more
. osely than it does our working time. A com-
rison of the census records of 1920 and 1930
ows in general that artists of various kinds are
' creasing more rapidly than the general popu-
tion. The trend of art in America must be
éated primarily as a matter of opinion, but there
a some factual material which indicates a growth
n art interests, as for example, the increase at
1 educational levels in art instruction as com-
red with other subjects, the growth of museum
tendance—the Metropolitan Museum in New
ork showing today a greater annual attendance
ian the Louvre in Paris. Upon certain points
ere seems to be general agreement: the stimu-
ing effect of certain inventions, as for example,
a1 tar colors and cellulose products, or the in-
Uence of electricity on music, an increased in-
rest in the appearance of the home, the enlist-
ent of art and artists by commerce and industry
an aid to sales. In architecture, the United
. ates is a recognized leader.

From a social point of view, as contrasted with
t for art’s sake, the problem of art, like that of
ligion and recreation, turns today on its service

man in his inner adjustment to an environ-
nt which shifts and changes with unexampled
pidity. Art appears to be one of the great forces
hich stand between maladjusted man and men-
1 breakdown, bringing him comfort, serenity
1d joy.

  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
 

" Art Appreciation Gaining

' It appears, from inquiries, that while conscious
joyment of the fine arts is becoming more gen-
1, a much more widespread movement is the
tistic appreciation, both as to color and design,

the common objects which SUrround us in our
ily lives. That these changes are largely un-
- scious, and that they are seldom recognized

touching the field of the arts, does not detract
m their significance.

 

PROBLEMS OF INCREASING LEISURE

513

The artistic tradition of the United States is,
of course, less rich than that of older countries.
So far as beauty consists in the establishment of
harmony between appearance and function, a
rapidly changing society such as ours would ap-
pear to be a stimulating factor. So far as beauty
depends on decoration, the history of the past
would indicate that artistic adjustment to a cul-
tural pattern cannot be achieved until that pat-
tern has been in existence sufficiently long to per-
mit of much experimentation with the various
possibilities it offers. Private wealth has been
extraordinarily lavish in its patronage but not
always wise. Governments are just beginning to
concern themselves with the encouragement of
the arts. The school may well grow into an ef-
fective agency for the development on a nation-
wide basis of an elementary consciousness of
beauty, and a more general understanding of the
place of art in industry and commerce may prove
to have great potentialities.

“If we have learned anything these past three
years, it is that thought is likely to be ineffectual
and that action can be mischievous. Thought has
not saved us from catastrophe; action has sprung
the trap. And'the leisure that has been forced on
the world is tainted with tragedy and bitterness,
But the well-springs of life never dry up. Al-
though commerce and industry are depressed,
naturally growth continues outdoors and in. The
trees have not shut down for the duration of the
depression. The birds have not shunned the af-
fected areas. Boys still outgrow their clothing,
and girls become young ladies while their parents
are still prattling to them in terms of childhood.
And many of those who have had leisure brutally
thrust upon them must be growing in directions
strange to them before, and forming thoughts
that were once inarticulate. When a young sap-
ling is left to its own devices it grows downward
in the direction of nutriment and upward in the
direction of light and air. Human beings are not
radically different. Enough action to reach the
nutriment, enough leisure to find the light and the
air, is the natural design for living. When the
opportunities for action are equitable and num-
erous it will be a blessing if enough leisure is
left to foster green growth above the ground.”—
Abstract from editorial “Concerning LeiSUre,”
New York Times, December 18, 1932.

 

At the Enchanted
Island dedicated
to the children.

" ND what are sky hooks?” asked Alice in
Wonderland.
The White Rabbit gave a brisk twirl to
his whiskers.

“They’re things,” he said importantly. “Made
of steel, they say. Hang a building down from
the sky, instead of pushing it up from the ground.
Quite unashamed of themselves too. Hold up a
building from the outside so you don’t have to
have cluttering things like columns inside it. You
know what I mean; make the building have its
insides on its outsides.”

“ ‘Its insides on its outsides !’ ” exclaimed Alice,
puzzled. “Oh, dear, I haven’t a notion what you
do mean.”

“Then come to the Century of Progress Ex—
position in Chicago next June,” answered the
White Rabbit, “and find out for yourself.”

So that night at supper Alice told her father
and mother about it.

“Sky hooks!” said her father. “Rather an
idea at that. No pretense. No calling a good
honest steel support an ironic column or some—
thing.”

“Ionic, dear,” murmured Alice’s mother, pa—
tiently, but no one seemed to notice her.

“And they’ve never, never been tried anywhere
else in all the world,” cried Alice. “The White
Rabbit told me so.”

“Who .9” exclaimed her mother.

“The—the man who spoke at our school to-
day,” amended Alice hastily. She had found that
certain important things were best kept to
yourself.

514

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK
General Manager of Children’s Activities

Century of Progress Exposition

“And what else did you hear?” demand
Alice’s father, in his excitement taking the la
piece of chocolate cake. '

“We-ell,” said Alice, “for one thing there
going to be something called the Enchant
Island. And it’s just for children. And there
never been anything like it at any expositi
ever.”

“How come?” asked Alice’s father.

“The White Rab—. I mean the man said th
it’s a sort of playland that’s been enchanted.”

“Humphl” Alice’s father cleared his thro
importantly. “Perhaps I should look into t
matter.”

Alice held her breath; the room, the table, tl
chairs and even her father and mother were
going round in circles.

“Then,” whispered Alice, “we—we can go a
see it!”

“Don’t see how we can get out of it,” sa
Alice’s father.

All this happened just the other day, but Ali
all the same is getting ready in anticipation;
are thousands of other small Alices and th
brothers throughout the length and breadth I
the land. For the people running the Century «
Progress eXpect about 350,000 people to visit t
Exposition every day, and of this number mo

 

 

 

 

 

 

—.— .-——— - - .— A.”

  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
 

an five percent will be children. Neither is
‘ lice’s first-hand information just a fancy of the
’hite Rabbit, who is at times a dreadful ro-
ncer; it is correct down to the tiniest detail.
‘ nd what a lot Alice still doesn’t know!

Picture an island built like a long lapping
ngue along a lagoon across from the mainland.
ts back yard is Lake Michigan, and its front
, rden, the blue waters of the lagoon. And this
ive acres of playland isn’t at all hard to get to.
' fact you can go to it in three ways; by bus,
cross one of the three bridges, or by taking a
rim little boat.

Alice, stepping out at the main entrance, will
mdoubtedly think that she’s dreaming. She will
- fairly wrapped in, drowned in color. A tall
*nchanter will probably greet her, clad in all the
splendors of the royalest prince out of the Ara-
bian Nights. A great umbrella, sixty feet in
diameter, apparently spun out of color, and so
brave and gay that no mere shower would ever
dare to dampen its spirits, will stretch above her.
A high fence wrought out of colored animal cut-
outs will hold out valiant arms to encircle a Toy
Shop bright with reds and blues and yellows;
vhile all the outside walls of all the other build-

ings will be hung with every gala color in the
ainbow.

\Vell, there will be the Toy Shop on one side,
nd on the other nothing less than a children’s
restaurant, decorated with murals by Tony Sarg.

he calories in that restaurant will be so de-
'ciously sugar-coated, and the vitamins so varied
nd toothsome that even a Hottent‘ot tot would
urn into a dietician if he once tasted them! In
he Toy Shop will be exhibits of toys and dolls
from all over the world, and they will show the

volution of toy-making from the beginning of
ime.

The Theater

But Alice pushes on. And
ight there, set squarely in
he center of things, like an
xis about which the whirl-
ng, colorful life of the
sland revolves, is the Chil-
ren’s Theater.

There are many novelties
n Enchanted Island, and
his is one of them. An en-
aging, intimate little build-

Miss Blackstock, who is the director of
recreation at Oak Park, Illinois, is to
serve as general manager of children's
activities at the Century of Progress Ex-
This unique experi-
ment will be watched with much interest
by recreation workers everywhere. A the-
ater which will be a clearing house for
amateur performances of many kinds, For
storytelling and similar activities, a play-
ground with leadership, and a children's
restaurant are a Few of the projects
which are now under way.

position, Chicago.

SKY HOOKS 515

ing that might have strayed right out of a fairy
tale. Inside; seats for 350 children for to sit on
and for to admire; lovely walls with murals and
sculptured reliefs by Alphonse Iannelli, the fam-
ous sculptor who decorated the Adler Plane-
tarium; stage settings done in the brave modern
legend. And what will Alice see when the cur-
tain rises? Children’s plays, some acted by chil-
dren and some by grown-ups; puppet shows;
circuses; dance festivals; movies; clown acts;
magicians’ acts; readings by famous story tellers;
even a pet show or two. Here is a new angle to
play—creative play in a happy expression that
Alice may see and wonder over, and perhaps go
home and imitate. Who can tell? Alice may
have found an avocation there in that little the-
ater that will mean many hundred times the price
of admission; or she may just have stumbled on
an amusing way of spending her leisure time.

This is from Alice’s angle—the audience angle
—but how about the young performers? The
majority of programs will be furnished by chil-
dren from the public schools, the municipal play-
grounds, dance, music and dramatic schools and
similar groups. Here is adventure, Simon-pure
and once-in-a-lifetime—the adventure of creating,
the one adventure left to the children of today,
whose woods and Indians and wild animals have
all been taken away by the strange thing we call
civilization.

The presiding genius of the theater will be the
Chicago Junior League, a group of young women
who take their philanthropies just as seriously as
they do their amusements. They have undertaken
to provide three plays a week, and just ask any
small boy or girl who have seen them what they
think of a Junior League children’s play! But the
theater isn’t just for the silk stocking small per-
son; Tony Tomaselli who lives Back of the Yards
and likes to play pirate or policeman at his play-
ground, will be proudly pro-
pelling his sisters and his
cousins and his aunts over to
see him “put on da swell
show”; while little Mary
O’Shaughnessy from ’way
over on the “fest Side will
no doubt have all her neigh-
bors out to see her do that
adagio dance. For the wise
men in charge of Enchant-
ed Island know that from

 

516 ‘ SKY HOOKS

the beginning of time
beggars have had a yen
to be princes, and
princes, beggars. And
here is their chance to
see the miracle happen
in the most glamorous
of settings.

The Enchanted Land
of Play

But we are keeping
Alice waiting. The
next thing she sees is
a half-circle of gayly-
awninged pavilions,
pavilions that would make any small person’s
heart skip a beat or two. Up above on the pa-
vilion roof, Alice’s father and mother may watch
her; but right here Alice is stepping alone into
the enchanted land of play. She will find rooms
where she may do all sorts of things on a rainy
day; rooms furnished with books and games and
other amusement devices; here and there a lady
dressed in gay and fanciful costume ready to tell
her a story or show her a game; here and' there a
strolling musician twanging his strings.

And just beyond she will find playgrounds,
partitioned off according to whether she is a kin-
dergartner or a great big eleven year old. And
the playgrounds are all equipped with the newest
and safest and most exciting play apparatus;
swings; slides; merry-go-rounds: gymnasium sets
and play fields. Here again young women, train—
ed play leaders, will welcome Alice and her
brother; will have games and stunts ready for
them, and even.a convenient ball if they want to
try out cramped muscles. This will be the first
time supervised playgrounds have ever been
tried at an exposition. Here Alice and her
brother may play happily and safely, watched
over by sympathetic play leaders. Alice’s
mother and father may, if they want, go off for

a whole day to visit some of the adult wonders
of the Exposition, and leave Alice on the Island,

knowing that she will be cared for efficiently and
pleasantly. They know that there is a first aid
station and a scientifically equipped nursery, to
say nothing of a restaurant.

For the Grown-Ups
But grown-ups don’t have to stay out of all the

 

enchanted places ; not b
a long way. Across fro
the playgrounds are t l
snug little buildings th
will house the comme
cial and scientific ente
tainments, and here, th
Exposition officials sa,
fathers and mothe
'may go if they wil
Probably these sa
Exposition officia
have a sneaking sy
pathy in the matte
They know, perhap
the f a t al attractio
Tommy’s toy aeroplane has for Tommy’s fathe
and Alice’s hand-dressed doll for Alice’s mother
Anyway, grown-up little boys and girls ma
slough off the years and become as sociable a
they wish here with the ungrown-up ones. The
may climb the Magic Mountain and come a-slid
ing down its sides. They may peer at the mom
keys on Monkey Island, and at the baby lamb
and ponies on the model farm. They may take
ride to Fairyland on a pretzel (believe it or not)
investigate the clouds on the Ferris wheel, 0
drive themselves in a miniature automobile. The
may gaze and gaze at the house all built‘ of mar
bles, or go inside and find out how marbles ar
blown. They may watch bright-eyed gnome
right out of a Hans Anderson story book actual]
making coaster wagons in a building made out o
a coaster wagon big enough for a giant to sit it
quite without crowding himself.

And here again Alice’s father and mother may
learn that an experiment in plav is being carrie
out right here that may have enormous bearing
on the future of education. This is an experi
ment that has never been tried out before any
where, let alone at any exposition. The men an
women in charge of these amusement device.
have not chosen them. willy—nilly from anybody’
catalogue; they are scientific expressions of th
age interests of the child in play. Decision i
made on them only after study and experience i
children’s actual play preferences. Enchante
Island will prove to Alice’s father and mothe
that play is growth, both physical and mental, t
Alice, and that this instinct for various kinds 0

'play changes with every year of her childhood

(Continued on page 546)

 

 

 
  
  

' usical games and activities
re playing an important part
' n social recreation programs.

By CHARLES F. SMITH

Department of Scouting
Teacher's College, Columbia University

HEN CODUCTING a program of musical
games and recreational dances with a mixed
group,it is generally advisable to start slowly
from the known to the unknown. The program
hould begin with old favorities, such as those
ound in Twice 5 5 Games with Music. In the hope
f getting everybody into informal dances, the
eader should first call for volunteers for such ac-
ivities as “We Won’t Go Home Until Morning,”
r “The Bear Went Over the Mountain.” Next,
e may call the names of several dance games,
nd, by calling for raised hands, determine a game
ractically unknown, possibly “The Circle Dance.”
T Tow he has arrived at a place where he can urge
very one to join, and the shy ones will hesitate
“nut little because they appre-
iate that the others are quite
s unfamiliar with the game
3 they are.

  
  

l

      
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
  

I

Bursting In
(A Social Dance Mixer)

aper bags that can be easily'
rokcn.

Musical games and recreational dances , , .
are fast coming to be very popular with This 15 a very 511111313

mixed groups. Through the courtesy of
Charles F. Smith, author of "Games and
Recreational Methods," and of the pub-
lishers, Dodd, Mead and Company, New
_ . York City, we have been permitted to
The equipment for thlS reprint a few musical games and dances
ance consists of small thin from Mr. Smith's new book, "Games and
Game Leadership," which contains over
700 games and activities of many types,
with instructions for leading them.

I Musical Games and Informal Donces

All dancers assemble around a chair on which
the bags are placed. As soon as the method is ex-
plained, the music starts, and with it, some of the
couples begin the dance. Any time a man (woman)
wishes to “cut in,” he blows up a bag and bursts
it on the back of the individual whose place he
wishes to take. (As a substitute for paper bags,
hand the selected rivals paper flowers, lemons,
nuts, nursing bottles, etc.)

Securing Partners. A simple, inexpensive, and
satisfactory method for obtaining partners is
through the use of playing-cards. For a crowd of
a hundred and four, two complete decks of cards
are necessary. A man deals one card from his
deck to each of the fifty-two men, and a lady deals
her cards to the fifty—two ladies. Then, an an-
nouncer takes each man in turn and calls out his
card, and the lady who holds the matching card
joins her partner.

Notes for Leaders. If there are less than fifty-
two people present, use only one deck of cards.
In this case, the holder of the ace of hearts pairs
with the ace of diamonds, the two black aces pair,
the two red kings, etc.

It provides good fun to have more cards than
there are dancers, so that there will be a number
of laughs when the announcer calls certain cards,
and it develops that no lady holds that card.

Our

Partner Exchange

method for securing partners
which dancers favor, because
they can, with few exceptions
secure partners of their own
choice. All players are seated.
with the exception of one
couple who engage in a dance
for a brief period until the

517

 

518 MUSICAL GAMES AND INFORMAL DANCES

music stops. At this signal both the gentleman
and the lady secure other partners. This is con-
tinued until all secure partners.

Notes for Leaders. Coach the first couple to
set a pattern by running for partners when the
music stops. This method will not be very suc-
cessful if people waste time in selecting partners.

In large crowds have each couple separate and
get new partners each time the music stops; in
small crowds, only the couple that is last to come.
onto the floor separates.

Matching Musical Terms

Finding Partners. This method of finding
partners will be appreciated by guests who have
a knowledge of musical terms. However, the
combinations of statements used in finding part—
ners are so simple that the game can be used suc-
cessfully at any party, other than a party for
children only. -

Before the guests arrive some one must prepare
the necessary written papers. The statements fol—
lowing. are passed out to one-half of the crowd
and the answers, printed in boldface type, are
given to the other half. The guests consult each
other’s statements to find partners.

1. A slang term applied to “the four hundred.”
Swells
2. "The prohibition law did away with them.
Bars

3. A derogatory term applied to lawyers. Sharp

4. Terms related to our national game. Base
and Run

. A part of a fish. Scale

. Something used by a shepherd. Staff

. That: which betrays one’s birthplace. Accent

. Something related to railroads. Lines and
Ties

9. Something to take when tired. Rests

10. The name of a girl. Grace

II. Two parts of a dollar. Quarters and

Halves

12. A portion of a sentence. Phrase

13. An unaffected person. Natural

14. A reflection upon character. Slur

15. A plant for seasoning. Time (Thyme)

16. Obtainable from a bank. Notes

17. A place of residence. Flat

18. Found on a check. Signature

19. It is free at gas stations. Air
20. Used for bundling. Cord

OO‘J O\tn

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
   

21. Something used by a seamstress. Measur

22. A telegraph operator uses it constantl‘
Key

23. An important army officer. Major

24. Related to a policeman. Beat

Acting Musical Terms. Why not carry .
Matching Musical Terms at a musical party :
making it a dramatic game? To keep coup]
occupied after they locate each other, let the
get together and work out simple dramatizatior
to illustrate the musical terms. Suggestions follo
Use of real or imaginative flat irons to illustra
“Hats,” fit an imaginative key to a keyhole f
“key,” portray a dressmaker using a tape to illus
rate “measure.”

Popularity
(A M arch Plus a Rush for Partners)

This game is designed for use when the sex
are unevenly divided. Suppose more men a
present the girls all form in a large circle and t
men take their places in a compact group in t
center. The girls all face to the right, and, to t
tune of a lively march, parade counter—clockwi
around the men. ‘Suddenly, the music stops as
signal for the men to rush for partners, while t
girls continue marching. The unlucky men wl
fail to secure partners return to the center.

Couples continue marching until the music sto
as a signal for the men to face about and mar
in the opposite direction, while the girls contin
marching counter-clockwise. Again the mu
stops, and the fortunate men who are marchi
do an about—face and compete with the men with
the circle to get a girl. All who fail take th
places within the circle.

Notes for Leaders. Notice that in marches v
this kind the girls always circle right. They m
be instructed to place the left hand on hip, so t
the men can easily “hook” their partners.

This game is unusual in that players enjoy it
much that they do not object, when the sexes ‘
about evenly divided, to having some of the m
tie handkerchiefs on their left arms and beco
“girls.”

Popularity may be used to secure partners
refreshments. However, fine discretion must
used in this matter, and at parties where cert
people will be more content when they eat w
certain other people, it is better to make eve
body happy and let guests select their ‘0
partners.

MUSICAL GAMES AND INFORMAL DANCES 519

King of Prosperity Dance
(The Santa Claus Dance)

Provide about ten per cent of the men with a

umber of ten-cent rings. Each time the music
(tops each girl tells her partner her name, fol-
pwed by the question, “And, are you a King of
rosperity ?” Men who happen to be reply,
Congratulations Miss So and So ; I am a King,
. ere’s your ring.” When the music starts, part-

9

' rs change and continue the dance.

I

n

 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
 

Notes for Leaders. Girls will be on the look-
 for Kings, so naturally, men who act in that
I apacity will be discovered and rushed every time
the music stops. But the girls must not know
hat Kings are benevolent only when approached
he fifth, sixth, or seventh time, depending upon
he secret instruction of the director.

| When the party includes about a dozen people
. onhned to a small room, there should be but one
' ing. He may give a ring to every second or
hird girl. Each time the music stops the girls

hisper the question to the fellows, several of

hom pretend to be Kings and pretend to pass
. ings, thus allowing the real King an opportunity
0 give his girl a ring without being detected.

The term Santa Claus is appropriate at Yule-
ide ; at a New Year’s party, Father Time might
estow gifts. '

Broom Dance
Since this is well known it is described briefly.
rovide the odd men or girls with brooms or
ticks to hold while dancing. When the music
tops, they drop brooms and try to get a girl
. hile all partners change. Those who fail to get
‘ partner carry on with brooms.

Formation of a Grand March

This is a sure method to get every one into a
rand march. The leader asks everybody present
0 assemble in a compact group at one end of the
I oom. Next, those on the outer edge of the group
lasp hands, thus enclosing those within. At this
oint the leader explains that the next event will
-nsist of a very simple march which everybody
n perform with perfect success.

   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

A couple at one end of the enclosure hold
‘ nds over head, forming an arch, under which
rose within the enclosure pass in COUples, with
'rls on the right. As soon as the couples within
e enclosure pass out under the arch, those who
rmed the enclosure do likewise. In this way a

 

line of couples is formed with men on one side

and girls on the other, in formation for another
march.

Note for Leaders. With couples in position——
ladies on gentlemen’s right— they march around
and come down center of room. Separate at far
end, ladies going right and gentlemen left. \Vhen
they meet again at opposite end of room, lines
pass with ladies on the inside. They meet again
and come down the center in twos, couples sepa-
rate alternately right and left. Couples march

around until they meet in center again and come
back in fours.

Paper Bag Masquerade March

Give each participant a large paper bag and
three or four pieces of wrapped candy or gum.
Provide colored crayons for marking masks. In-
struct everybody to make his own disguise by
tearing holes in the bag for eyes, nose, and mouth,
and adding pencil decorations limited only by his
artistic ability.

Start a simple march before all have completed
their masks and let others join as soon as they
are ready. When the music stops, the masquerad-
ers go where they please and engage in conversa-
tions by couples until the music starts as a signal
to form on a given line ready for the next march.
Whenever a masquerader recognizes the person
he engages in conversation, that person _is re-
quired to give up a piece of candy or gum. As
soon as any one exhausts his supply of goodies
he must remove his mask and drop out of the
game.

Notes for Leaders. Instruct everybody to
disguise his voice by attempting comical Irish,
Jewish, Swedish, or German accents. It saves
time to start each march by couples.

Use figure marches that mix the crowd, so that
even though players recognize each other by their
clothing, they will nevertheless have to search out
their friends. Also arrange for the music to cease
when the majority of the marchers are in the
center of the floor.

Spiral String March

(An April Fool Special)
Line up the marchers in a single front rank

and pass down the line with a ball of very strong
string and, as it is unrolled, ask each person to

(Continued on page 547)

 

Reading ranks high as a hobby. There are. however,
rural districts where books must travel to readers.

Hobbies For the Teens Age

5 IN other respects so in the use of leisure
A time every adolescent is a law unto him-
self. Reading, dramatics, writing, sports,
hiking, music, activities that give an opportunity
to work with the handswthese and many others
are to be found claiming the whole—hearted at-
tention of both boys and girls from twelve to
twenty. In fact, a list of hobbies actually en—
gaged in by a particular group 'of these young
people would be too long to reproduce here.
If one asks a fourteen-year-old what he does in
his free time, the answer may be both amazing
and discouraging. He may know of nothing
else to do except to go to the moving pictures
or find some other vicarious means of entertain-
ment. Let us not conclude that this young man
lacks aptitudes; rather he lacks experience.

520

By MARIE SPOTTSWOOD

r

"I
.5"
(D
o
O
B
B
(D
:3
H
U1
O
H!
H
:3" .
(D
0"
O
*4
U1
9:
D
Q.
“.3
'1.
U3
(-1“
:3"
Q:

selves and the testimony of mothers, fathers a
teachers form the basis of the present discussi
which is further limited to include only tho
types of interests available to any and every b
and girl.

Reading

Perhaps the most characteristic hobby of t
teens age is reading, but many parents are n
aware of how much their participation m
enrich the reading experiences of adolesce

   
  
  
    
 
    
 

ildren. Or so one boy and girl feel about it.
I he boy, a sixteen-year-old, whose books are
l . choicest hobby, says that reading a good book
ight give him a few hours pleasure, but the
oks that really live and become a part of him
e those which he discusses with others, espe-
j lly with his parents. A girl of thirteen says
at some of her greatest pleasures in books
ve been those shared in family reading out
ud.
l A teacher, who is also a parent, noticed that
'5 children did not discuss certain books or hap-
nings with him and upon asking why they
itt’ed these particulars from their conversation
received this illuminating reply: “Well,
ather, we know exactly what you would say
. ithout asking you l”
And the implication was not complimentary!
1 thinking over the inci-
ent this father realized

  
   
  
  

is children to like the things
- wanted them to like and
o enjoy the books he want-
(1 them to enjoy. He is,
owever, sufficiently open-
inded to “mend his ways,”
nd there is much to be said
' favor of any parent who maintains such a
- armingly frank relationship with his family.

  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

The Creative Spirit

A more unusual complaint came ' from a
iother who objected to a teacher that her child
[I nt too much time writing. “Writing what ?"
e teacher questioned. As far as the parent
uld discover, it was nonsense, but the young
y, aged seventeen, seemed much more inter-
ted in it than in preparing for her college
oard examinations. Let us hope she did not
low examinations to interfere too seriously
ith her hobby—she was writing poetry—and.
at her mother has learned the significance of

hat appeared simple, foolish and unintelligible.

The interest in writing manifested by many

lolescents can be stifled easily by an unsym-
' thctic attitude. Even good-natured ridicule

om members of the family often prevents its
velopment. A happier example of an inter-
ed yet restrained attitude on the part of
rents is found in the case of a youth who par-

 

at he did, indeed, expect Miss Spottswood's article appeared
originally in the December issue of
“Child Study" published by the Child
Study Association of America. This
particular number is devoted entire-
ly to a discussion of Play and Play.
Materials and has much to offer rec-
reation workers and officials.

HOBBIES FOR THE TEENS AGE 521

ticularly values his typewriter. He enjoys the
privacy of his own desk and appreciates this con-
sideration from his parents. As a consequence,
they are frequently invited to criticize his work.

With no space and less money with which
to carry out some of their own histronic yearn-
ings many adolescents content themselves with
going to the movies or whatever is offered in
the way of theatrical productions. Give then.
the Opportunity to stage the performance them—
selves and they are not only happier but richer
by far. In appeal partly intellectual, but still
more social, dramatics is one of the most popular
of all adolescent interests. It is well worth cul-
tivating for it aids in poise and self-expression
and affords unlimited possibilities along other
lines, particularly in the arts. One mother, with
something of a flair for the theater herself, en-
listed the help of her hus-
band, and they, together
with their danghter, made
an effective theater out of
their erstwhile unattractive
cellar. The total expendi-
ture (volunteer labor not
paid for) was around ten
dollars and the return on
the investment, according to
these parents, is enormous. This was the result
of a dramatic club started at school. It is be-
coming an institution in the neighborhood and
the cellar-theater is the meeting place for an
enthusiastic group of teen-age actors, actresses,
scenic designers and stage hands.

Any one who has visited Germany in the sum-
mer time must covet for American boys and girls
the unusual advantages afforded even the poore5t
German youth in the way of traveling. Both
boys and girls have the desire to visit strange
places and have new experiences, but having in
this country no such happy arrangement as those
of the German Youth Movement to facilitate
their travel, they sometimes run away from
home. Although there is not always so violent
a reaction to this urge, the “wanderlust” is pres-
ent to some extent in all youth. Trips of explor-
ation to a near-by mountain, lake or stream are
within the possibilities of every group and the
unfailing eagerness with which adolescents seize
upon opportunities to go on such an expedition
is indication that it is providing them with an
appropriate means of satisfying this desire.

522 HOBBIES FOR THE TEENS AGE

Psychologists tell us that the early teens——
thirteen to sixteen-—-should be a time when the
boy and girl are “exploring,” trying out many
things. Such hobbies as photography, wood
carving, bookbinding, pottery making or clay
modelling are, enthusiastically engaged in during
these years. After this period of “sampling”
and trying out not only many activities, but also
their own aptitudes, there comes a narroiving
and deepening in adolescent interests. For this
reason it is particularly urgent that a wide va-
riety of contacts be provided in the early adoles—
cent years. Usually the desire and the informa-
tion regarding scientific experiments, shop work
and the arts are gained in school; but parents
who foster these beginnings by allowing further
experimentation, construction and art expression
to continue at home after school hours are the
real persons to whom credit is due if the hobby
truly enriches the child’s life. While the “smells”
that issue forth from her son’s home-made labor-
atory are hardly pleasing, the mother of a fifteen—
year-old boy has never complained, except once
when the son and a clever accomplice were dis-
tressing a younger sister and her playmates with
clouds of smoke piped into their playroom by an
ingenious device. The hfteen—year-old has, with
his parents’ under-
standing and en-
couragement, be-
come more ma-
ture in his exper-
i m e n t i n g and
spends his vaca-
tions at a scien—
tific laboratory.

The Social Side

Of physical ac-
tivities pursued
as hobbies by all
adolescents little
mention need be
made except to
say that every
boy and girl in
the teens should
find his 0 wn
sport. From fif-

teen on the girls .  r.  __

tend m drop

 

sports as a hobby while boys grow even more en
grossed in them, and teachers often find it is t
parents who allow girls to lose interest entirel
rather than encouraging them to continue it.
mother and father, having been properly score
for their negligence in this respect, discovere
that several family skating parties in the evenin
did something for themselves as well as for thei
two daughters’ enthusiasm for sports. Anothe
mother found that by bringing more of the soci
aspect into sports her girls’ interest was intensi
’fied. She provided light refreshments and
comfortable room to which the daughters migl
bring their friends, boys and girls, for an hou

.or so after the game, swim or what not. Ofte

they danced a bit in spite of the fact that the
had been exercising vigorously all afternoon.
Dancing is almost universally appealing to boy
and girls. Though the problems it often raise
lead into some of the most difficult social adjus
ments the younger and older generations ar
called upon to face, many authorities believe th
dancing is not only wholesome but is one of t
almost necessary outlets for boys and girls pa

’ Modelling is a popular hobby with man
boys andggirls of the "exploring" ag

 

—..-

Courtesy Westchester County Recreation Commission

HOBBIES FOR THE TEENS AGE 523

cularly in our modern civilization. These com-

ex social problems have no place in this dis-

ssion, but we must recall in passing that

others and fathers who dance with their chil-
. ren can be helpful in more ways than one. This
. obvious with the boy in his early teens to whom
a ordeal of learning to dance is almost too
‘ i eat for him to bear. But it is no less important
the more subtle guidance made possible by
.tanding “with” rather than “against” their
hildren.

 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

Collecting Things
In the early teens both boys and girls seem
npelled to collect something, and the objects
dought by them range from junk to first editions.
With boys the interest in collecting seems more
enuine than with girls, and tends to persist
hrough the years; sometimes it is simply the
ollecting that continues, the items varying. An
ults’ book lover confesses that his interest in
ollecting began with white rats, was transferred
0 postage stamps, cigarette pictures and, finally,
0 books.

Regarding the value of postage stamp collec-
'ons, a favorite with boys, there is conHicting
stimony. \Vith some, it is engaged in more or
55 as a duty, a friend or relative having given
1e boy a book and a number of stamps as a be-
°nning; with others the market value of stamps
. the sole motive for collecting. On the other
nd, such a collection may be truly enlarging
xperience and a source of much pleasure. A
acher, herself now a collector, admits that an
glish theme about a stamp collection by a
urteen-year-old boy aroused her interest. So
" ide were his researches that his father, whose
sistance was enlisted, became impressed and has
ndered the financial assistance necessary for the
- rchase of some much desired treasures. This
, whose fine collection is valuable, would not
nsider selling it. He will, however, discuss it
4 om any point of view, historical, geographical
technical, in so fascinating a manner that even
. own-ups will listen to him.
Probably the most meaningful collections are
, eloped as a result of a creative type of inter-
A , such as collections of beautiful photographs
etchings growing out of one’s own experi-
nts in making them.

   
 
 
 
  

  
 
  
   
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

Emotional Antidotes
A teacher has expressed this view effectively
n the statement that “perhaps the chief superior-

 

ity of creative activity lies in the emotional
release which comes when one plans something
oneself and carries it out with reasonable success
 The youth of the land is largely engaged in
competitive or stereotyped activity, and it is bored
to death. Alcohol, jazz, petting and lavish
spending are sought by youth made reckless by
ennui. Real creative activity may not be easy to
foster, but it is a more constructive and complete
escape from boredom.”

But why, you may ask, all this stress upon
hobbies, which are, after all, secondary matters
in a young person’s life? If a layman’s enthusi-
asm has seemed too great, let us go to the
psychologist for an opinion as to the role of
interests in adolescent development. According
to Brooks, in his book on The Psychology of the
Adolescent, a wide range of wholesome interests
not only insures breadth of experience and of
personality, but acts as an aid to mental health
by providing for the youth some means of re-
solving the conflict of inevitable impulses and
desires.

In so sketchy an account as this it has not been
possible properly to evaluate various hobbies and
avocations. The one point to be repeated again
and again is that any activity carried on in the
creative spirit is superior to all others in its
ultimate value to the individual.

“The challenge of the leisure-time problem of
the next generation is almost breath taking in its
significance. Never before in the history of the
civilized world have the masses of humanity been
blessed with the amount of leisure now available.
For generations mankind has been crying for
more leisure, and opportunity to do the things
that are not required. Tomorrow, when the de-
pression has cleared up, civilization will have
dumped in its lap such quantities of leisure time
that it will be helpless to control or make proper
use of this increased leisure unless education is
definitely reorganized to prepare for this prob-
lem. Increased leisure time, the rainbow pot of
gold for which humanity has been searching for
many generations, will become like the golden
touch to King Midas, unless the present genera-
tion is given definite education and training in
sane, satisfying and worthwhile recreational ac-
tivities.”——- William R. Laporte, Professor of
Physical Education, University of Southern
California.

 

Courtesy Minnesota Municipalities

By A. B. HORWITZ
City Planning Engineer
Duluth, Minnesota

SITE THE coming of winter snows, city of-
iicials are again called upon to answer the
recurring question, “Where can our chil-

dren coast with safety?” Usually the only answer
is that of the children themselves; they slide in
the street at their front door, but not in safety.
Four types of areas offer safe coasting hill pos-
sibilities -——home grounds, suitable park lands,
school property, and selected public streets under

proper supervision.

Home Grounds

_We often fail to notice the thing nearest and
plainest before us. The best sliding place for the
small child is on the home lot. A slide as short

as twenty-five feet, with a
built-up snow mound for a
good start, will keep ayoung—
ster under six happy for
hours daily. Where there is
some slope to the ground the
home lot may afford a slide
of considerable length. Fur-
thermore, nearly every block
has one or more vacant lots.
Permission for temporary

524

Protection must be given the many children -
whom the street is an alluring sliding plac

use can ordinarily be obtained. Several slides ca
be built on such a lot and the various age grou
served separately.

A slide needs a definite path held by snm
banks, a steep slope for the start and a snow ban
across the path at the finish where necessary t
stop the toboggan or sled from running into
street or into an obstruction. Where the startin
slope is a built—up snow bank and not the ha
ground itself, the path will be too soft for sle
runners unless iced, and the youngsters must I
provided with small toboggans. Vacant lot slid
can be built and maintained by the older childre
of the block, under supervision of a committee a

parents.

The elementary school Parent-Teachers’ Ass
ciation is a good organization to promote hom
ground and vacant-lot coasting hills and to 0

ganize committees of parents in each block. T
Duluth Parent-Teachers’ A

sociation has undertaken th
Mr. Horwitz's article originally appeared work.

in the January issue of Minnesota Mu-
nicipalities. Readers of Recreation will P k Areas
be interested in having the opinion of at

an engineer on this subject. A recrea- Practically all large Par

tion worker, after reading the article, and some playgrounds ha

suggested the possibility of using muni- areas Suitable for Sleddin

pal golf courses for coasting. This would . ..
involve keeping club hauses open as shel- tObOggamng and Sklmg’ Sa

ters, but the charging of a man check- from traflic hazards. Ve
ing fee would help defray expenses. feW large parks, howeve

SAFE lVINTER COASTING HILLS 525

  
  
  
  
  
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
  
   
 

re near the densely settled dis-
tricts, and, therefore, can serve

ut a small portion of the com--
inunity.

ation department, sometimes
under the police department,
sometimes under the two acting
cooperatively.

It appears, from legal opin-
ion, that the municipality is not
liable for traffic accidents in
connection with street coasting.

School Properties

W'here some portion of a
school site is on a hillside, an
xcellent snow slide is often
possible. The activity can be
imited to such hours as will not
disturb school activities.

Such streets should be care-
fully selected for suitability—
they should be side streets not
needed for traflic circulation
even in the immediate neigh-
borhood. Provision should be
made for easy stopping at the
end of the run and, as far as
possible, the locations should
Conrtcsy The Journal of Health and be. Close to large .grouPS Of

Physical Education children. In districts where
supervised streets are not available, street
sliding should be prohibited.

Public Streets

In spite of traflic hazards,
the street is still the most pop-
ular sliding place. It is at every
child's front door; it possesses
the best surface for sled run—
ners; heretofore
it has been the

 

, , For those so fortunate as to be able
only Slld‘ng to leave the city streets, there are

place available; the wooded hills as sliding places.
and the child

often knows no other.

The 1931 Year Book of the magazine, RECREA—
TION, states that there are some thirty-nine cities
that Operate Play Streets- I Obtained the “St from terest may be added to this event by dividing the
the National Recreation Association and sleds into classes
inquired of these cities whether there ex— These bold adventurers into winter's and g i v i n g

ists legal authority for recreation use and {astnesses do their swing on skiis, awards for the
the blocking to traffic of areas dedicated for skimming like birds through the air. most elaborate,

highway purposes. Twenty-one cities re— most beautiful

plied, and nearly all to the same and most fantastic sleds. There
effect: “\Ve do not know of are, too, such events as Coast

SpeCllf|C1?gal anthPTit)’ hm this for Distance, the coaster be—
Eractice in our -’c’1ty has never ing given a running start;
een Challenged‘ Streets are Push and Coast, an event in
Closed for only two or three which one ho is on the sled
hours a day and only streets are fith h. t y t . . l. ’
used on which all abutting prop- “ 1,5 cam mm c gwmg nm

a running push to the take—off

erty owners have given their _
Witter] consent. some person hue, and the Shuttle Relay. In
this event the sled must come

's charged with the responsi—
bility of watching the activity to a stop and be turned around
at each end of straight-away.

nd closing the ends of the
lock with trafiic barriers for The relay is run as a regular
shuttle relay, and each boy

he duration of the designated
must be back at his starting

eriod. Any vehicle that must
point before the next one starts.

ave access to some abutting
)roperty during this period is Teams consist of nine boys,
one rider and eight pushers.

dmitted. The activity is usually
inder supervision of the recre- Distance, 25 to 50 yards.

There are a number of enjoyable events
with sleds which can be arranged. First of all
comes the decorated sled parade which may
be made as effective as a doll buggy parade. In-

 

C‘mirtrsy The Journal of Health and
Physical [Education

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

The Unemployed High School Graduate-

By HERBERT H. HELBLE

Principal, High School,
Appleton, Wisconsin

WOULD encourage some of
I our boys and girls just out

of school to volunteer their
services as playground directors
or leaders of directed play. Be-
cause of financial economies made necessary in
municipal, park board, or school board funds,
many communities are faced with the abandon—
ment of organized playground and evening recre-
ational activities. Why can’t our high school
graduates throw themselves into this breach and
help save the painstaking work of years? Free
volunteer service is what many of our communi-
ties now need. Youth is ever idealistic and altru-
istic and American high school graduates are no
exception. If high school edu-
cation stands for anything at
all, we have a right to expect
a few leaders from each class
who can properly organize and
supervise recreation on a small
scale at least. You athletes,
who have had three or four
years of intensive coaching in

526

 

In an article in the November issue of _ ,
The [carnal of the National Education mumty enterpnses- H35 3'0
.fIssociaticn, Mr. Helble oFFers a Few town a citizens’ club or Wa
suggestions to the thousands oiyoung voters’ club? If so, attend t
people who are waiting For the chance meetings and join, if you a
to work. A number of them are so di-
rectly concerned with the leisure time
movement that we are presenting them

to the Readers of RECREATION.

 

If you are adept in the playing of tennis
why not help others to acquire this skill?

    
  
   
    
 
  
  
 
 

high school, you stars of th
gymnasium, you leaders in cla
plays and school dramatic pe
formances, you former me
bers of the school student cou
cil, you ex-class officers—here is your opportuni
to serve. Many of you have had the experien
and possess the personality—even at eighteen u
nineteen years of age—to succeed at such ente
prises. Running a public playground or helpi
direct a public recreational program will tea
you how tohandle people.

Community Service

Closely allied to this suggestion is my urge I
.young graduate America
take an active part in all con

eligible. Volunteer your ser
ices as scout or cub-pack lea
er. There is many an insipi

THE UNEMPLOYED HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE 527

teak, Sunday school class, church, Y. M. C. A.,
’ . W. C. A., or other social service enterprise
‘bout ready to expire, waiting for the virile, in-
,elligent and active infusion of young blood.
Many of you can analyze problems, organize'pro-
trams of activity, and make clearcut, convincing
talks, especially if you have made the most of
these opportunities at school. Judging by the
oundering failures of the adults, the penalties
f which youth, as well as adults, are now pay-
'ig, not to mention the hopeless confusion in
'hich our municipal, state, and national legisla-
've chambers have become entangled in their ef-
orts to solve present conditions, we are safe in
ssuming that to turn affairs over to some of our
recent high school graduates for a while would
lOt' change matters for the worse, to say the least.
It was only a few short years ago that boys of
iigh school age were sufficiently mature and in-
elligent to fight and die for their country. Per-
iaps the lads of this generation, in the midst of
nother national crisis, may now be sufficiently
nature and intelligent to live, think, and work

or their country.

Why Not a Hobby?

ments; and seek to identify them in Flight, by
their song and tracks. I would study the animals
indigenous to the region. Having exhausted the
domain of zoology, I would transfer my study
of nature to the field of botany. Like the intrepid,
out-of-door-loving, young Wandervogel of Ger-
many, I would organize hiking and tramping ex-
peditions of my comrades to points of historical
interest or natural beauty within reasonable dis-
tance. Young America no more needs automo-
biles or other forms of mechanical transporta-
tion for such purposes than does Young Germany.
As an offshoot of your rapidly growing interest
in natural history, why not begin a collection of
objects which interest you? Pull out and dust off
your boyhood or girlhood stamp or coin collec-
tion, and use it as a point of departure for a study
of world geography and international affairs.
Renew your acquaintance with music, with gar-
dening, with domestic animals, with home-made
games and entertainments which all of us en-
joyed so thoroughly in our earlier days. Join the
back-lot baseball squad and the neighborhood
horseshoe pitching contest. Many of these things
will cost nothing in actual
money spent. Just because

May I call attention to
he deveIOpment of hob—
ies? If in high school
'ou participated in extra-
irriculum activities ——
thletics, forensics, music.
ramatics, journalism,
lubs—you already know
1e joy which comes in
leveloping hobbies or lei-
1re-time activities. In the
bsence of a vocation, you
n do no better than to
ractice an avocation. If
were you, I would ac-
uaint myself with the
istory and early settle-
- nt of your particular
gion. The local library,
ewspaper files, scrap-
oks, and old settlers
ill living, would be my
ources of information.
ext, I would learn the
nds of birds native to
region; study their
bits, songs, environ-

i

AN APPEAL FROM THE GOVERNOR OF
MASSACHUSETTS TO LOCAL
SCHOOL COMMITTEES

I am writing to ask your co-operation and ad-
vice with regard to what I consider one of
the most fundamental problems we are facing
during the coming winter—that of maintaining
the morale of unemployed boys and girls who
are through school and have nothing but time
on their hands.

Because of the prolonged depression churches.
libraries and other existing recreation centers
are already overtaxed to care for the in-
creased number of non-paying members who
use their facilities. Some means must be pro-
vided to take up the slack. It has been sug-
gested that the use of g mnasiums, auditor-
iums. reading rooms an workshops in the
various schools throughout the Commonwealth
be made available to groups of young men
and women at such periods as do not ‘con-
flict with the regular school hours. If this
can be done. school authorities are in a posi-
tion to alleviate the problem to a greater
extent than any other public or private
agency.

Any concerted program of organized activi-
ties made ossible through the use of the
school buil ings will be a real and essential
contribution to the needs of a most important
element in our communities.

JOSEPH B. ELY.

you are numbered among
the unemployed does not
necessarily mean that you
must also be numbered
among the idle. \Vhether
or not you have really car—
ried away from high
school its maximum bene-
fit will partly be deter-
mined by your reactions
to this opportunity of what
to do with your leisure
time, the only commodity
of which you seem to have
plenty just at present. It
all depends on you. Your
own happiness and future
well-being are at stake.
Are you equal to the chal-
lenge?

“Creative use of leisure
is certainly a major issue
in the future of our civili-
zation.” —— Dr. Hamel!
Hart, Bryn Mawr College.

Purchasing Points
of

Winter Sports
Equipment

equipment needed for activities sponsored by
outing clubs and departments of physical
education.

SKIS, snowshoes, skates, and toboggans are the

Skis

Material. Of the snow sports, skiing is de-
servedly popular since it offers such a variety of
activity, hill running, cross-country, jumping—
the first two being learned fairly easily. Of the
money I had to spend, I should certainly invest
the greater part of it in skis. The materials of
which skis are commonly made are hickory, ash,
maple, and pine. The harder woods naturally
give the best service. Hickory is recommended
for jumping, but a good quality of ash for such
a group as we are describing would be most sat-
isfactory. It is expensive though less so than
hickory but correspondingly satisfactory for long
and hard usage. Maple being a hard wood is next
best and some qualities of hard pine are very
satisfactory, and correspondingly cheaper. The
lower in the price scale you buy the correspond-
ingly careful you must be to check on the Haws
and imperfections treated in the material follow-
ing. Beware of soft pine. It splinters and warps
easily.

The grain of the wood is an important item for
consideration. The grain should be wide and run
parallel with the length of the ski. It is especially
undesirable to have the grain run diagonally for-
ward and outward. The direction of the wear on
such a ski when in use is directly against the
grain and will cause splintering where the grain
is exposed. It is much less objectionable if the
grain runs backward and outward since this cor-
responds with the direction in which the wear
comes. A grain which runs diagonally across the

528

i the ski is for the purpose of preventing side sli

    
   
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
   
 
  

Courtesy The Journal of Health and Physical Education

By LENA WALMSLEY
Bates College

Lewiston, Maine

ski will'cause the ski to run in the direction a
the grain. The ski should be examined for kno
and kinks.

Type of Ski. The groove on the bottom 0

ping. Two and three grooves are used by jum
ers. A single grooved ski is recommended f
general use. This is best for cross-country a
hill running, which appeals to most people, an
can be used for small jumps.

Shape of Ski. When the ski is placed on
hard level surface such as the floor of the gy1
nasium, there should be an arch from the toe u
the back of the ski of about three-quarters of .
inch directly under the harness. The upwa
curve at the front of the ski should be gradu
At the narrowest point the ski should be abo
2% inches wide, and 3% inches in width at t

front.
Finish of Ski. Dark colors

in the finish of a ski cause the

in an article ».
snow to melt and freeze but

. . Equipment"
more Important Stlll, cover the of The loam
Haws of the wood and make wa|m5|ey poi

mind in purch
on the assu
to be used c
Club or a de
is the article
stracts from i

it difficult to detect imper-
fections.

Length of Ski. The length
of the ski is judged by the
height of the user measuring

PURCHASING POINTS OF HUNTER SPORTS EQUIPMENT 529

 

from the heels to the tip of the extended arm and
fingers. If I personally were to choose between
a ski which is a little too long and one which is a
little too short, I would choose the latter.

Price. An ash ski to meet all the qualifications
listed above can be bought for seven dollars and
seventy-five cents. This insures a ski of excellent
quality ash, free from Haws and with an accurate
grain. Maple skis can be bought for less. It is
obvious that the lower in the price scale one goes
j the more care one has to exert in checking on the

I above listed flaws. The wood will undoubtedly
be inferior but with care in choosing, a satisfac-

tory ski can be bought for less. Four dollars
, eems to me the lowest at which one could hope

i to purchase a ski that will stand up under hard
usage.

    
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  

Harness. Ski boots with the harness fitted to
the boot, using the Norwegian ski harness, is un-
doubtedly an ideal arrangement. For class and
roup use the regulation harness is out of the
. uestion, for adjustment in width is sometimes a
lengthy process and adjustment of the back strap
is a slow process due to the stiffness of the lea-
her used. The simple toe strap, plus the use of a
trong rubber band slipped under the toe and
back of the heel, is a very sat-
isfactory and inexpensive ar-
rangement. Several modifica-
tions of the regulation harness
can now be purchased. Any
of these are simple and satis-
factory for group equipment.
At the same time they blend
themselves to quick and easy
adjustment by the various
people who use them.

i Winter Sports
ry 1933 issue
ducah'on, Miss
to be kept‘in
tions are based
o be boughtis
as an Outing
n. 50 practical
umber of ab-

 

Many considerations enter
into the selection and care
of winter sports equipment.

Poles. A pair of poles should be purchased
for every pair of skis. A bamboo pole with steel
pointed tip, set in metal ferrule, with a bamboo
or aluminum r_ing six inches or more in diameter,
is a light strong part of one’s skiing equipment.
These can be purchased for about two dollars and
fifty cents a pair.

Snowshoes

Type. Snowshoes are made according to the
weight of the person using them and the purpose
for which they are to be used. Snowshoes for
speed in open country are long and narrow, with
a very definite tail to them. Snowshoes to be used
by woodsmen in the brush are wider and shorter,
having no tail. This type is known as “bear paw."
A snowshoe of medium width and length suitable
for general use and for a girl weighing about
I 30 pounds would measure 12 inches by 42
inches. The toe of the snowshoe should have a
definite curve upward—there is nothing meaner
on which to try to walk or run than a snowshoe
which has little or no turn up at the front. The

harness of the snowshoe should also be easy of
adjustment.

Material Select wood as you would in a ski
—-grain running parallel to the shape of the shoe,
free from knots and kinks. In the webbing look
for uniformity in the width of the gut used,
frayed or weak parts, and security of attachments.

Price. A first-class snowshoe, A-I in every
respect, costs about nine dollars. As with the
skis, satisfactory snowshoes can be bought for
less if care is taken to inspect carefully every
piece of equipment bought. Five or six dollars
would seem to me a minimum to spend for this
equipment.

Skates

This type of equipment does not lend itself
readily to group ownership. Shoe skates are
owned by so many people nowadays, being much

 

530 PURCHASING POINTS OF WINTER SPORTS EQUIPMENT

more commonly used than either skis or snow-
shoes, that it hardly seems worth while for a club
or group to invest in them. However, if pur-
chased, the easiest solution of the problem would
be to buy the detachable skates. . . . A wide shoe
with broad toe space, lacing just above the ankle,
with strong counters to which is attached a skate
slightly rocker in type, is a good all-around piece
of equipment. A good shoe is most essential.

A good pair of shoe skates can be bought for

five or six dollars. The best method of purchas- I

ing is to buy the shoe, then choose the type of
skate you wish, and then have them attached.

Toboggans .

When purchasing this piece of equipment, the
points on which to check are very similar to those
for skis. Hardwood (ash) is excellent. The grain
of the wood should run parallel to the pieces of
which the toboggan is made, knots and kinks
should be absent, the outer pieces should be
thicker than the others. The size which holds
four people is a good piece to have, control and
weight being about right for the average girl to
manage. Rope rather than a wood rail is more
enduring, as well as being safer. In case of an
accident the breaking of the wooden rail may
inflict a bad wound.

Care of Equipment

Care of equipment will materially add to its
life. Skis and snowshoes especially should not be
allowed to dry out and become
brittle. The application of hot
linseed oil to the running sur-
faces of skis, before the season
and after, will prevent drying
out. The oil should be well
rubbed in and allowed to stand
for several days. The application
of a second coat may be advis-
able in some cases. Varnishing
the upper surface of skis is also
a good plan though this need not
be done as often as the oiling.
When stored after the season,
the two skis forming one pair
should be strapped or tied to-
gether with the running surfaces
toward each other. A block about
one inch in thickness should be
inserted between the skis near
the foot rests in order to pre-
serve the arch of the ski. An-

other block should be wedged between the tips 0
the skis to preserve the upward curve of the ski
Special equipment called ski bend braces, may b
purchased for this purpose though ordinar
straps and blocks of wood answer the purpo
very well. Skis should then be placed in a hor
zontal position supported by pegs in two plac
A rack or framework about twenty inches w'
to accommodate three or four pairs of skis_, s'
by side, containing a series of pegs arranged
pairs about ten inches above each other will rea
ily take care of twenty or more pairs of skis '
a small area. Instead of arranging pegs for t
storage of skis in a permanent place such as o
the wall of a room, the movable rack is reco L
mended. The place of storage is often not t
place where the skis are kept during the season 0
use. The movable rack makes an excellent pla
in which to keep skis during the season of use a.
well as of storage and occupies a very smal
amount of space.

Snowshoes also may be treated with the linseed
oil, webbing included, strapped bottom to bottom
with blocks at either side between the frames t
preserve the upward curve at the toe. When
completely dry, a good spar varnish should be
used over the whole shoe. The shoe should then
be suspended by wire through the toes. Pegs
added to the top horizontal support of the rack
mentioned above, make a good place from which

(Continued on page 547)

Courtesy The Journal of Health and Physical Education

 

 

l
l
l
i
l

 

The Play House as a Part of Play Day

*

M

Courtesy "Hygm'a"

It is amazing what imagination plus some old
crates, boxes and a few accessories can evolve!

. ANY counties in North Dakota have spon-
M sored play days for rural, consolidated
and town elementary schools with pro-
grams involving, in most instances, activities in
music, dramatics and athletics for grades four
1 to eight inclusive. Parents, adults, pre—school
l children, boys and girls up to the fourth grade.
' have in the past not been considered in the plans
' for the day. Consequently, many are completely
fatigued before the day is over and leave early
with dubious impressions as to the value of the
repetition of “such a performance.”

To meet this problem the “Play House” has
been created as a means of providing activity for
he pre-school children and boys and girls up to
the fourth grade. The experiment was conducted
last May as a part of the Traill County Play Day
in Mayville, North Dakota. The model rural
school building located east of the college gym-
nasium was selected because of its accessibility,
nd was made over into a fantastic play house.
Temporary, artificial partitions marked the room
into four divisions. Every room had girls super-
vising activities at all times of the (lay, and one
leader was in general charge of the whole house,
erving in the capacity of hostess.

Number one, the large play room, had a collec-
'on of colored Indian pictures, a wide variety of
tufted birds native to North Dakota, ABC blocks,
incoln Logs, dolls and doll beds. small toys.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

By HELEN WESTFALL, M. A.

Director of Physical Education

State Teachers College
Moyvillo, North Doltoto

Ploy day has come to stay. When
planning for it we must remember
the needs of the little children.

blackboards, chalk and erasers. A story hour was
held in this room from eleven to twelve o’clock.
Stories and circle games filled the hour brimful
of fun for over one hundred small boys and girls.
The success of this project was evidenced by the
request for more stories in the afternoon.

Number two, the construction room, with many
windows but smaller than the play room, was
equipped with a long table, boards from apple
and peach boxes, empty thread spools, hammers,
nails, coping saws, glue and paint. This was
the busiest place of all. Small boys and girls
made door stops in the likeness of dogs and cats.
bird houses, tables and chairs for dolls, doll beds
and perambulating toy dogs. The bird houses,
completed, gave the makers the greatest oppor-
tunity for expression of joy and pride.

Number three, the rest room, with windows
for light and ventilation, was furnished with two
cots, pillows and homemade dogs and cats. Sev-
eral small babies were able to sleep and rest dur-
ing the day. One first aid case was brought in
and cared for very efhcicntly. Many mothers
were relieved and made happier because of this

room.
(Continued on page 548)

531

Standards tor 0 Recreation System
in a Community of Ioo,ooo

Compiled by
GEORGE D. BUTLER

National Recreation Association

HILE it is impossible to set Up recreation
W standards which may be arbitrarily applied

to every city of a particular population
group, it can fairly be said that in every commun-
ity there should be provided
safe places for little chil-
dren under school age to
play. This provision has
not been widely accepted as
a public responsibility, but
is borne to a large extent
by private land owners. In
cities in which all the pri-
vate yards are adequate.
further public provision is
not necessary. In parts of
cities where population is
congested, the utilization of
all possible areas SUCh RS Courtesy “Hygeia”
interior block playgrounds.
roof playgrounds, nearby
vacant lot playgrounds and
special areas reserved'for
young children, in playgrounds and other public
open spaces, is highly desirable. Little children
cannot be expected to go very far. Indeed, their
mothers are scarcely likely to let them go out of
sight unless under the chaperonage of an older
brother or sister or someone else. Facilities for
these pre-—school children, therefore. must be
nearby and must be reached without crossing a
busy thoroughfare.

Areas for these children should contain sand

532

 

Sate iplaces shouldqbe provided where ditional playgrounds f
children .under school age may play.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
   
   

A Few oi the standards which som

cities have practically achieve

boxes, large building blocks, small slide, bab
swings, benches and play houses. Toilet facilitic
and drinking water must be provided except i
the case of interior block playgrounds.

Children’s Playgrounds

Such a city, too, shoul
have adequate children’
playgrounds within at mo
one-half mile and prefe
ably one-third mile of :1
children of school age. Th
best location for such pla
areas is generally adjace
to or in connection with th
elementary schools. Wher
the schools are too great
distance from one anoth
or where school play are
are inadequate in size, a

children of this age shoul
be provided so that ea
child may have adequate opportunity for game'
sports and other play activities. In congest
areas playgrounds will need to be even clos
together, probably within one-fourth mile of ea
home. Three and one-half acres is a minimu
size and five acres is better. The standards whi
Dr. George D. Strayer, Director, Institute of E
“cational Research, Division of Field Studi
Teachers College, New York, is now enunciati1
have been attained by a considerable and growi
number of cities. According to these standar

  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 

 
 

I ve acres is the minimum size for an elementary
chool site; ten acres for a junior high school and
wenty acres for a senior high school. It is as-
umed that the building is so located on the site

5 to make a large percentage of the area avail-
ble for recreation use.

l These playgrounds should be fenced, well
drained and well surfaced. They should contain
' telds with two or three backstops for junior and
layground baseball, one or tWo tennis courts,
 everal games courts, and so far as possible inter-
. hangeable areas, for volley ball and basketball,
addle tennis, horseshoes, adequate space for
free play, a jumping pit and a straightaway. Ap-
paratus, such as swings, slides, horizontal ladder
and travelling rings, is important. A wading pool
should be included in the section for younger
children. On some playgrounds it may be neces—
sary to provide a section for children of pre-
school age. Sanitary facilities, drinking water
. and at least simple shelter with storage facilities,
rshould be provided either in the adjacent school
-or in an independent building. The general layout
should permit the maximum use of the play-
ground by younger children, by older boys and
by older girls: the younger children in a separate
area preferably near the girls’ section; older boys
and older girls in separate divisions or with pro-
‘vision for scheduled use of certain facilities and
special games area. While intended primarily for
children, these playgrounds should be available
for use by younger people and adults during the
evening and at other special times. The area
used for baseball should also be available for foot-

ball, soccer, field hockey and other sports in a
modified form.

Neighborhood Playfields

In addition, there should be neighborhood play-
fields of ten acres or

ore within at the
most a mile of all
homes in the com-
munity. These areas
are primarily for the
ecreational use of
young people and
dults, although they
~ ay also provide
me facilities for
hildren. Many of
ese areas will be at .

      
  
 

attainable.

 

It is difficult to set up in the abstract standards for a
satisfactory recreation system for a city of, say, loo,ooo.
So many of the factors are variable. Congestion, charac-
teristics of the people, recreational habits, financial stat-
us and topography, all have their bearing. Moreover
minimum standards are all too likely to become fixed and
accepted as maximum standards. There is fairly general-
agreement, however, that there should be at least one
acre of park and recreation space within the city for each
100 of the population, and that certain types of areas
should be provided. An attempt is made here to strike
the balance between the too ideal and the too easily

 

%

STANDARDS FOR A RECREATION SYSTEM 533

or adjoining junior and senior high school sites,
but if the latter are inadequate and not properly
situated, additional areas will need to be acquired.
Every junior high school should have such a play
area and senior high schools should have larger
areas of at least twenty acres. Of course, ail

these areas should be available for community
as well as school use.

They should be well drained and surfaced and
should contain facilities for games and sports;
probably two major baseball fields with several
auxiliary diamonds for junior and midget ball,
ten to fifteen tennis courts and provision for other
games such as handball, bowling on the green,
croquet, roque, etc. Some of them might contain
permanent layouts for track and field athletics.
Sections of these fields should be set aside exclu-
sively for the use of women and girls and equip-
ped for soccer, field hockey, playground baseball
and other games. \Vhere needed, they should pro-
vide a neighborhood playground of the type men—
tioned above. Sanitary facilities. drinking water,
locker, bathing and dressing facilities should be
available either in an adjacent school or in an
independent field house with rooms also for di-
rector, supplies and storage of equipment.

One or two of the larger areas, probably ad—
jacent to senior high schools in the city, should
be equipped for use as standard athletic fields,
with seats for spectators. with dressing rooms,
locker, shower bath and toilet facilities, and prop-
erly fenced in so that admission charges may be
made when desired.

All these recreation areas should be beautified.

Other Areas and Facilities

A city of 100,000 people should probably have
about twenty other areas suitably distributed so
as to be easily accessible to various parts of the
city and totalling with the active play areas at

————————___.—_ IIII'least 1,000 acres. Of

these areas most of
which would be
landscape parks,
probably ten or fif-
teen might be from
three to twenty-five
acres in size; two or
three of them from
twenty-five to one
hundred acres, and
two of them larger
than one hundred

534 STANDARDS FOR A RECREATION SYSTEM

.—

acres. One of the larger

parks might well be de— ’
veloped as a public golf
course. While some of
these parks should be
designed primarily for
breathing spaces and
quiet recreation, others
should provide facilities
for horseshoe pitching,
tennis, archery, picnick-
ing, bowling on the _
green, boating, bathing,   " 

croquet and other aCthi- Courtesy Michigan Journal of Physical Education

ties. In case of need a

children’s playground might be laid out in several

of them. The total area devoted to active recrea-
tion use should equal from 30 to 40 per cent of
the total open space, or from 300 to 400 acres in
a city of 100,000.

Unless state, county, or national parks or for-
ests are readily accessible from the city, there
should probably be also a large extra-urban park
of the reservation type for hiking, picnicking,
nature study and similar activities.

There should be opportunity for swimming and
if suitable water areas such as beaches are not
available, artificial pools should be built. Indoor
swimming pools in the junior and senior high
schools should provide swimming all the year
round. Wherever possible water facilities should
be available for all kinds of boating activities and
in suitable climates there should be well distrib-

' uted opportunities for skating and other outdoor

activities in the winter time.

All school buildings should afford recreation
facilities which are suitable and made available
for community use. Except for small schools,
which should have a playroom, every elementary
school should have either an auditorium with
stage and a gymnasium, or a combined gymna-
sium and auditorium. Each high school should
have two gymnasiums, an indoor swimming pool,
auditorium with stage facilities and club rooms.
In neighborhoods where schools cannot be readily
made to provide comfortable and convenient f acil-
ities for recreational activities, special community
recreation buildings may be necessary.

There should be available for the enjoyment of
children and adults well distributed library facili-
ties, and art and nature museums; botanical gar-
dens, zoological gardens if possible.

   
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  

School buildings and grounds should provide oppor
tunities for recreational activities of many varietie

Leadership

Every such city should have a superintenden
of recreation and an assistant, both well traine
and of high character. One of these should be
man, the other a woman. The superintenden
should receive not less than $3,600 and an assiq
tant not less than $2,500 a year. There shoul
be special workers available, either on a full-tim
year-round basis or giving service equivalent t
the full-time service of two workers, paid not les
than $2,100 each per year serving as directors 0
supervisors of several or all of the following
athletics, handcraft, musical activities, dramati
activities, social recreation, nature activities in
cluding camping and hiking.

Each playground should be usable under lead
ership every day in the year in which outdoo
play is practicable, after school hours and unti
dark. It is desirable to have at least certain o
the grounds and facilities lighted for evenin
play. In general, there should be at least tw
directors for each playground, one man and on
woman, with additional assistance as necessar
on the larger grounds or for special. activities
Each school building should be available as a com
munity center in accordance with demand, wit
a director in charge of each center, with suc
specialized assistance as is necessary to provid
leadership in the various activities desired by th
neighborhood.

Activities
The play and leisure time interests of peopl

are so numerous that it is almost impossible t

list a suitable program of activities. In genera
(Continued on page 548)

“ ALLING CAR 154\V ; boys playing with traf-
fic signals at Adams and Hoover. Calling
car 22; boys breaking windows of vacant

house. Calling car 41W; boys stealing gasoline

from parked automobiles. Calling car 67; boys
playing ball on the street disturbing neighbors.”
Anyone who has listened to the police broad-
cast in any city finds that a number of calls con-
cern juveniles. The Los Angeles Playground and

Recreation Department, assisted by the University

of Southern California, has recently completed a

study of radio car calls for six months. The Los

Angeles Police Department radio station KGPL

handles from 12,000 to 15,000 calls per month, of

which from 2%% to 5% concern juveniles. In
approximately two-thirds of the cases the boys
have been merely playing at some place where it
was annoying to adults. The remaining one-third
of the calls report violations of various ordi-
ances. In general, motor offenses bring the larg-
st number of complaints. This includes tamper-
ing with cars, noisy operation, reckless driving,
tc. Trespassing on, or de-
troying property comes
ext, and playing with guns
hird. In Los Angeles thefts
re the basis of only about

% to 5% of the juvenile

lls. \Vhen the police ar-

rive at the scene, in 20%

o 25% - of the juvenile

ases they find the guilty

arties are gone. When the
oys are found the usual

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  

Price; IO cents.

Radio Calls As” a Delinquency Index

By JOHN C. HENDERSON

Supervisor of Playground and Community Center Activities

Los Angeles, California

A study which shows how playgrounds
help to prevent iuvenile delinquency.

procedure is to warn them. Juvenile arrests are
made in only 3% to 4% of the cases.

" Influence of Playgrounds

In general the greater number of calls origi-
nate from areas with no playground service, or
with inadequate playground service. The area
which has had the largest number of calls in the
six months’ period has no playground service
whatever. The area with the second largest num-
ber of calls has a playground in the extreme
northeast corner. The district is cut in two by a
range of hills. There are very few calls on the
side of the hills on which the playground is lo-
cated, practically all of them originating in the
area not accessible to the playground. The third
highest district has two playgrounds and has
always been one of the chief delinquency areas.
The fourth highest district has one playground,
but the district is a large one and the service is
not adequate. The fifth district is also in the high
delinquency area and has but one small play-

ground.

"Facts about Juvenile Delinquency" is the
title of a pamphlet recently published by
the Children's Bureau.
present, in easily available form, something
of the newer philosophy in regard to the
whole problem of delinquency which has
grown out of the studies and findings of
the Delinquency Committee of the White
House Conference on Child Health and
Protection." Copies of the Bulletin (Pub-
lication No. l5) may be secured from the
Government Printing Office, Washington.

On Hallowe’en

Its Purim” is t° An interesting connec-

tion between radio calls and
recreation work was dis-
covered on Hallowe’en. On
this date 102,000 persons
attended Hallowe’en ob-
servances at forty-eight
playgrounds. In the entire

(Continued on page 549)
535

‘—

 
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
    
   
   

Activities for girls are fortunately increasing, and their needs a
interests are coming more to the fore. Camping is always popula

By MADEL MADDEN

Supervisor Community Activities

Cincinnati Recreation Commission.

H H, please don’t ask me to help with girls!

0 I don’t know enough about girls’ work,

and I am not very interested. I’ll be glad

to do anything I can in connection with “Boys’

Week” because Working with boys is fun and in—

trigues me, but I can’t get very enthusiastic about
girls’ work.”

This, or something similar, was the reply we
received from approximately thirty-two women
from a list of lifty prominent citizens requested
to serve on the Advisory Council for Cincinnati’s
first “Girls’ Week” celebration three years ago.
Today,. however, tells a different tale. More than
two hundred women volunteered active service in
connection with the third annual Girls’ Week
celebration held recently. The difference in the
attitude of women at this time and three years
ago bears testimony to the earnest efforts of the
original committee to educate women in the city
to a realization of the needs of girls. It was dis-
covered that boys had their week, hobby fair, boy
and dog parade, hare and hound chase, egg hunt,
kit'e flying contest, sail boat and airplane con-
tests, marble, checker, football, basketball and
baseball tournaments, track and field meets, and
many other interesting events. Girls, however,

536

    

“t ,, ~
3‘ at}

except in a few scattered instances, had only th
activities conducted by private organizations.

The object of Girls’ Week as stated in th
original announcement is: “To concentrate atten
tion of the people of the city on the various ac
tivities of girls; to point out to the citizens ho
it is possible for them to make the lives of girl
bigger, finer and more useful, and to demonstrat
to the girls how it is possible to lead these finer
more interesting and more useful lives.”

The Program

Much thought and effort were given to the set
up of the week, with the result that each day wa
designated to some particular interest of girls a

follows:
Monday—The Girl and Her Health

Tuesday—The Girl and Her Work
Wednesday—The Girl and Her City
Thursday—The Girl and Her Home
Friday—The Girl and Her Recreation
Saturday—The Girl and Her Mother
StInday—The Girl and Her Church

“The Girl and Her Health” committee secure
the cooperation of the VVomen’s Medical Ass
ciation and other interested physicians in conduc
ing physical examinations for girls in the hi
schools. Girls who had undergone complete ph
sical examination during the year were awarde
buttons. Posture contests were held in each hi
school. Two girls were selected to represent ea
high school for the hnal posture contest whi
was most popular with the girls and received

 

 

GIRLS” WEEK—A CHALLENGE 537

Courtesy Board of Recreation, East Orange, N. J.

 

And there are the playground games for which
recreation departments are providinq facilities.

great deal of attention from the public generally.
The winner of the city-wide contest was awarded
a ribbon by the Mayor at the opening of the
Hobby Fair.

Health convocations were held in each high
school on Monday morning. In the corridor of
the school was displayed “The American Girl’s
Beauty Products,” a vanity table, decorated by
the girls themselves, with the usual beauty pre-
preparation containers. But instead of lipstick,
there was a tomato or other vegetable; carrots
usurped the place of rouge; there was milk in-
stead of lotion, and other health foods tilled the
powder, cold cream, and astringent jars.

“The Girl and Her Work” committee sent to
all high school girls and eighth grade girls bul-
letins containing reference material on vocations,
giving the educational requirements, salary sched-
ules and other information regarding the various
business and professional positions Open to wo-
men. Speakers on vocational guidance appeared
before school groups when requested. The Busi-
ness and Professional Women’s Club assisted in
sponsoring this activity.

\Vednesday was devoted to “The Girl and Her
City,” and was called “Civic Responsibility Day.”
Approximately four hundred girls from ninety-
six schools, public and parochial, were given the
opportunity of meeting and working with the
various civic and governmental oH‘icials on this
day. All important civic and governmental posi-
tions were tilled by girls.

The Girls’ Hobby Fair, one of the most spec-
tacular features of Girls’ Week, was conducted
by “The Girl and Her Home” committee. The
Hobby Fair is an exhibition of the hobbies of

girls. The Union Central Life Insurance
Company donated the use of the iirsr
floor of its new building to house the ex-
hibit. People who viewed the display
were amazed at the remarkable work
done by young girls. The exhibit in-
cluded embroidery, art work, tie and dye,
original music compositions, poetry, short
stories, photography, dolls, collections,
flowers, lamps, sewing, and all sorts of
special exhibits. In addition, there were
tasty pies, cakes, candies, and many other
delicacies.

There were 2,275 individual entries and
the display was viewed by 7,450 people,
according to the calculating machine stationed
at the entrance. The interest shown by girls is
more remarkable when it is considered that rib-
bons were the only awards made, except for the
school receiving the largest number of points,
which was presented with a silver cup.

The chairman of the Hobby Fair, in urging
women’s clubs to assist as hostesses and guides,
asserted that hobbies aid in the social achieve-
mentiof girls:

a. By stimulating the feeling of individual
achievement.

b. By bringing together groups interested in
the same type of activity, so that lasting friend-
ships often blossom out of such things as stamp
collections.

6. By compensating for thwarted ambition in

 

Courtesy Department of Recreation, South Bend, Ind.

Volley bell is one of the out-of-door
games which has found greatest favor.

providing activities to a person who might other-
wise have no outside interests.

d. By providing an escape from mechanical
routine.

538 GIRLS’ WEEK—A CHALLENGE

   
   
 

sitting at the traffic sergeant’s desk today, list
ing to the many complaint’s coming in from .
over the city, watching him trying to correct eve
complaint as speedily as possible, I think I ha
received a picture of the city as a whole and
the future when anything goes wrong in c

e. By setting up a criterion of good work at

which to aim.
Friday was devot’ed to “The Girl and Her Rec-

reation.” Two play days for high school girls
were conducted with an attendance of approxi-
mately five hundred girls. A supper and play

 

night for industrial girls was held on Friday
night.

On Saturday “The Girl and Her M other” com-'

mittee sponsored a Mother and Daughter lunch-
eon, with an attendance of 670 mothers and
daughters. Unmarried women, and married wo-
men having no daughters of their own, were
urged to adopt for this one occasion girls living
in the orphanages and other institutions. In this
way fifty institution children were enabled to at-
tend the luncheon. One of the Girls’ High School
bands provided music during the meal, and the
Mayor’s wife gave a short inspirational talk.
Toasts were read “To Our Mothers” and “To
Our Daughters’ and an hour’s entertainment pro-
gram by the girls themselves followed.

Sunday was devoted to “The Girl and Her
Church.” This committee requested every min-
' ister, rabbi and priest in the city to devote his
sermon to some subject connected with the
problems of girls.

Making Girls’ Week Significant

Girls’ Week is sponsored by the Public Recre-
ation Commission in cooperation with all the
public and private organizations in the city inter-
ested in the welfare of girls. It is financed ex-
clusively by women and women’s organizations.
While many women considered the activities of
Girls’ Week sufficient justification for the effort
and energy expended, the General Committee
feels Girls’ Week is worthwhile only in so far as
the activities of the week have a carry-over value
in the lives of the girls. They assert the activi-
ties of Girls’ Week should be the climax of a
year’s work in the interest of girls. The Health
examination, they feel, while important, is not
accomplishing much unless it impresses Upon the
girl the necessity for constant health safeguards.
‘ The comparatively little knowledge acquired on
Civic Responsibility Day is not a sufficient justi-
fication for the time and effort expended unless
the girls can be given a general idea of the com-
plex problems in government, and an appreciation
of the efforts of the heads of various departments
in trying to manage the departments efiiciently
and economically. As one of the girls, who was
assigned to the Traffic Department said, “After

   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  

neighborhood or on our street, I will remem
we are just a very small part, and instead of c
plaining I will try to help.” The sponsors .
tried to awaken in the girls the idea that ex
citizen is responsible for the good governm
of the city and efficiency or inefficiency in ;
ernment depends, in the last analysis, on
watchfulness or indifference of the individ
voter.

Perhaps the most encouraging factor in c
nection with the Girls’ Week Committee is t
the committee is critical of its own work. At .
first meeting after the Girls’ Week celebrati
the entire time was given to criticisms and s
gestions for next year. Among other things
was decided that no committee chairman shall
permitted to serve for more than two consecut
years, in order that the work may benefit by n
personalities, with new ideas. One valuable s
gestion was that since Girls’ Week is design
primarily to benefit girls, the committee appo
girls from the elementary and high schools
serve on the general committee, to be present
all meetings in order that we may know the op'
ions of the girls concerning the activities we p1
to conduct. .

A permanent Girls’ Week Auxiliary, with
membership fee of $1.00 a year, is nqwb'
formed for the two-fold purpose of assuri
financial support and a continuing interested bo

Many other activities may be introduced int
Girl’s W'eek program, such as a drama contest
music day or festival, a girls’ club rally or dem
stration, a home play night, and a charm sch
with a course of lecture demonstrations in the .
of sitting, standing and walking correctly, in p
sonality development and good taste in clot
The cooperation of the local library may be
cured in the selection of a list of books for 1
which may be printed in the local papers.

A banquet for mothers and daughters is usu
a popular feature of the week. The Commun
Drama Service of the N. R. A. has issued a o
letin, “Good Times for Mother’s Day,” which
suggestions for a banquet, an amusing play, u
lists of poems, plays and songs. Price $.25.

ORK, Pennsylvania, has a girls’ sports
club fostered by the Recreation Commission
which is open to any girl or woman over

ourteen years of age and which is intended
rimarily for the employed girls. Meetings are
eld twice a month. A point system has been
’0rked out under which points are awarded for
ttendance at club meetings, for participation in
e' e organized activity for the season, for organ-
ing or directing an activity of at least one
onth, such as a new club, a handcraft class or
treet play, and for knowing how to play basket—
ll, tennis, volley ball, baseball and golf and for
roficiency in skating and bicycling. Points are
150 awarded for swimming, hiking, playing in
ourneys and meets and for nature lore. On
eceiving 500 points mem-
ers may wear the em—

1em of the club which is Are cities doing adequate planning

Recreation Activities for Girls

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation Commissioners,
East Orange, N. J.

Old-time games are giving girls new
Interest in the playground program.

handcraft the trend last

year was more than ever
toward the making of

resented and paid for by For the recreation of girls? A few useful articles. Patchwork

he club. This emblem,
- hich is six inches in di-
meter, may be worn on
weaters and swimming suits. Each girl is asked
. keep an accurate count of her activities, and
t the second meeting of each month the points
; e credited on the club records.

A Varied Program

During the past year the Recreation Depart-
1ent of Oakland, California, has made a special
--ffort to meet the needs of girls. Six play days
ave been held instead of four as in preceding
ears, and a number of clubs for older girls have
u: en formed, several of them cooking clubs. Each
irl brings her own materials and with the help
f the supervisor works out recipes. The group
isually prepares a luncheon which they serve in
he field house. The correct way of setting a
ble, the duties of a hostess and table etiquette
re learned as they sample their own cooking.

An interesting development has been the in-
reased responsibility assumed by older girls on
. e playground. This takes the form of assisting
: e leader with planning the weekly program and
.nducting activities for younger children, such

the story hour, dramatics and handcraft. In

communities report their activities. qu’hs’ pot homers, hot

dish mats, p u r s e s and

beach sandals were among
the most popular articles. Toys have been made
for younger brothers and sisters, and book ends
and door stops for older members of the family.
Frequently the handcraft group has made checker
boards, ping pong sets and tennis paddles for use
on the playground. The setting aside of a cer-
tain day each week as Girls’ Day has greatly
increased interest in girls’ activities. On this day
there have been such special events as a doll
show, jack tournament, hike and swimming party.

A Training Course in Leadership

Tuesday and Thursday evenings from October
4th to the 20th were devoted by the Department
of Playground and Recreation of Los Angeles
to its third fall training course in girls’ leadership.
Experienced leaders in many fields discussed the
leaders’ responsibility to the girl in the field of
health and personal hygiene. home problems,
mental attitudes, vocational guidance and leisure
time activities. Each evening immediately follow-
ing the opening lecture, technical instruction was
given in handcraft, dramatics, storytelling, and

(Continued on page 549)
539

 

Notes on Regional" Planning, Government
and

Administration in Metropolitan Areas

4"

N discussing’the problem
I of housing, Clarence

Stein, the designer of
Radburn, New Jersey,
emphasized very strongly
the need for neighbor-
hood planning if the hous—
ing problem is to be
handled at all effectively.
He stated that the steady
increase of leisure de—
mands an increasing at—
tention to provision of
open spaces in connection with all housing de-
velopments, whether single family or large
apartment house projects, and whether such
developments are in the heart of the city or in
the outskirts. Mr. Stein believes that proper
provisions for Open spaces cannot be made unless
most of our housing is provided through large
scale developments rather than through many
small developments or individual building. It is
Mr. Stein’s judgment that unless real estate oper—
ators themselves take radical steps to control
properly the subdivision of land, correcting its
past and present abuses, it will be absolutely nec-
essary for local governments to take over complete
control of all subdividing and development.

The conference devoted a great deal of atten-
tion to the discussion of the proper governmental
unit for the handling of regional services in
metropolitan areas. A number of speakers felt
the need for some kind of a new regional gov—
ernment to which will be delegated certain powers
by the individual local governments within the
region. Professor Wylie Kilpatrick, Managing
Editor, N ew Jersey Municipalities, felt that there
was too much temptation to find one way out of
all of the various complex situations in govern-
ment administration of region problems. He felt

540

The Washington Square College, the Law
School and the School of Commerce and Ac-
counts ol: New York University, cooperatively
arranged for a conference held October l8-I9,
the purpose of which was to bring together
those experienced in city and regional planning,
public government and public law, to consider
the development and administration of plan-
ning on a regional basis in metropolitan areas
of the country. Park and recreation workers will
be interested in seeing a report of this confer-
ence because of the ready acceptance given
parks and recreation as normal and essential
factors in planning and providing public service.

  
  
   
 
  
  
       
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   

very strongly that th
has been, and still is,
much loose thinking .
talking on consolidat'
in government. He
particularly c
cerned with the tende
to recommend larger g
ernmental units contr
ling larger a r e a s .
stated that in his ju
ment the case for size
government has not
been proven. He feels that the approach to t
problem should be that of an attempt to determi
a unit size for government which would be ca
ble of being an efficient unit for government,
gardless of what size the unit should ultimat
prove to be. Professor Kilpatrick believes t
county government in the United States, if ca
fully studied and thoroughly reorganized, can u
made an efficient unit of government for ma
services, including parks and recreation.
Alfred Bettman of Cincinnati, a pioneer in t
field of city planning and an attorney of 1
experience, disscussed the legislative aspect
regional government. He effectively outlined t
need for planning and experience before any a
forts are made to secure legislation to permit I
creation of new forms of government. He poin
out the obvious impossibility of drafting pro
legislation for this purpose until it was kno
pretty clearly what the purpose should be.
Charles W. Tooke, Professor of Law at N
York University, felt' that the problem of g
ernmental control in regional planning should
worked out through compacts or agreem
between or among the different local governm
concerned. Professor Tooke’s recommendat'

 
  

(Continued on page 550)

 

Courtesy [Vestcllcsler County Recreation Commission

IN the report of the
Forester of the U. S.
Department of Agri-
culture for the year
nded June 30, 1932, appears the following state-
'nentz—“During the year recreational use of the
ational forests took on an increased economic
ignificance. To many regions it attracted sources
f income without which much financial hardship
ould have been felt. To many unemployed per-
ons it afforded not only enjoyment and health
ut also opportunity to live inexpensively amidst
leasant surroundings. Many parties occupied
ational-forest lands for extended periods. As in
rlier years, the campers came from practically
ll the States and Territories. An exact census
f visitors is impracticable, but estimates made as
1 previous years, with every effort to avoid dupli-
tion, indicated that during the calendar year
:931 visitors to the national forests numbered
2,108,043, an increase of about 480,400. They
1cluded 493,235 special-use permittees and
uests, 1,618,510 hotel and resort guests, 2,193,-
; 3 campers, 3,”65,027 picknickers, and 24,037,-
8 transient motorists.”

' Recreation in the
I National Forests

DURING the com-
ing year the Garden
Clubs of Columbus,
Georgia, will take as
eir major project the beautification and adorn-
ent of the playground and recreation centers.
cooperation with the Garden Clubs, the Recre-
ion Department is taking responsibility for a
ty-wide beautification program.

Beautifyin g
Our Cities

Many groups such as this hiking club are
finding recreation in our national forests.

In response to newspaper appeals the Park
Recreation Commission of Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, secured four truck loads of very fine shrub-
bery, bulbs and plants. These plantings were
donated by citizens for park beautification.

E N I O Y M E N T
of the forms of out-
door recreation which
the 50,000 acres of
the New York divisions of the Interstate provide
has grown every winter. These activities include
skating, skiing, snow shoeing, tobogganing and
hiking. together with the activities centering at
the park headquarters at‘ Bear Mountain with its
indoor rinks, ski jumps and toboggan slides. This
winter many organizations are using for week-
ends and holiday parties the cabins which they
rent from the Commissioners in the Harriman
and Bear Mountain sections of the park.

Winter Sports At
The Interstate Park

ANDERSON Memo-
rial C o m m u n i t‘ y
Building and Play-
ground in San Pedro,
California, a recreation center which has been
operated under a nominal leasing arrangement of
the Los Angeles Playground and Recreation De-
partment, has been presented to the department
as a gift by its owner, Mrs. N. 0. Anderson.
The property, which becomes part of the city-
owned recreation system under the terms of Mrs.
Anderson’s gift, includes eight lots with a total
frontage of 455 feet on three streets. The build-
ing, which includes a swimming pool, gymnasium

S4}

A Memorial
Community Building

H

I
—_..-—_

'—/.——_

542 ‘ WORLD AT PLAY

 

means a terrific strain on a Giant Stride—

or on any other piece of playground
equipment.

Purchasers of playground equipment know
the importance of selecting units specially
constructed to carry the full load.

EVERWEAR Equipment is designed to

give unusual factors of safety and dura-
bility—it is not built down to a price,
yet is low in cost.

Ever Wear

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

       

Safe, beneficial action is provided by the
255 different types, sizes, and units of
recreation apparatus found in the plendid
EverWear line.

    
      
       
   
   
       
   

  

An outfit for every play purpose. The
design and details of construction insure
safety and durability. Investigate them.

Have you read the information found on
the inside front and back cover pages of
the EverWear catalog No. 23? If you
do not have this splendid book, write for
your copy.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.
Springfield, Ohio

. noon in December in order to raise funds for I

 

   
 
 
 
 
    
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
 

and club room facilities, was completed by M
Anderson as a memorial to her sons and
been operated as a public play center by the o
partment since 1926. Immediately followi
acceptance of the gift, improvements to the bu'
ing and ground totaling several thousand doll
in cost were started by the department.

City Officials Give a Concert—It is all ve
well to make speeches to raise money, and it
be even better to have a fine concert for such
cause, but what will you say to having the May
the Safety Director, the Director of Recreati
the Fire Chief, the President of the Juni
League, the Supervisor of Music in the Pu
Schools and half a dozen other prominent citize
take part in such a concert by performing .
gether in a “toy symphony”? This is exac
what took place in Cincinnati on a Sunday aft

Mayor’s Community Christmas Committee.
Cincinnati Civic Orchestra, which was organi
and is maintained by the Public Recreation C0
mission, gave the major part of the concert; .L
it is one of the best of all our American sympho
orchestras that consist mainly of advanced .
teurs. But the' playing of Haydn’s “Toy Sy
phony” by the Mayor, his colleagues and ot
prominent citizens was probably the great ev
of this occasion. Tickets were distributed wi
out charge, but vigorous appeals for contributi
were made either in advance or at the door on t

day of the concert.

A New Shelter House in Charlotte, No
Carolina—Charlotte is to have an attracti
shelter house of stone and log construction.
will provide an open lioor approximately 2 5 by

I

¢

Special Certificates and College Degrees
for Students and Teachers of

Physical Education and
Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION
July 3 to August 11

    

  
  

Wide variety of graduate, and under-gradu-
ate courses. Prominent coaching staff.
Modern gymnasium. An ideal environ-
ment for health and study.

Special Bulletin on Request '
Address Director of Summer Session

The Pennsylvania State College
State College, Pa.

' WORLD AT PLAY 543

eet, paved with rock and having heavy slab seats
long two sides and across the back to the large
pen fireplace made of field stone and lined with
pecial firebrick. A set of hand-made andirons
rave been set into the masonry. Another feature
f this fireplace is the raised hearth which has a
arrow pit in the center of it which will serve to
old hot coals raked from under the fire when it
s being used for weiner roasts or for toasting
narshmallows. This hearth is approximately six
nches above the floor level of the building and
'ill accommodate many more around the fire than
lWould otherwise be possible. The pit may be
l‘covered with a steel cover when not in use.

For Unemployed Men in Glens Falls—One
of the most constructive services of the Glens
Falls, New York, Recreation Commission during
the past year was the renting of a store room
as a recreation center for the dozens of men wait-
ing at City Hall for assignments to jobs. With
the assistance of interested citizens of business
firms the center was equipped with a table, chairs,
a piano, games and reading matter and a secretary
was employed. Thus there came into being the
\‘Vorkmen’s Club. Here an average of ninety
men a day spent their leisure hours over a two
months’ period. On several occasions the club
was open evenings for lectures, picture shows
and entertainments.

At Pasadena’s Center—At the women’s cen—
ber established in Memorial Park, Pasadena, Cali-
ornia, the City Employment Bureau for \Vomen
ias combined with the Block Aid Employment
l ureau for Women. Here unemployed girls and
mum register and are invited to participate in
he activities sponsored by a citizens’ committee.
mong these activities are sewing, lectures on
ood and demonstrations of household economies.
\ttached to the center is a recreation supervisor
' 110 plans, in cooperation with the citizens’ com-
'nittee, recreation activities of many types, in-
luding music, drama and games.

Radio Broadcasts on Recreation—“Recreo,"
radio round-up of recreation, is one of the
eddy features of radio station KDKA of Pitts-
burgh. This program is presented at 6:45 P. M.

. very Saturday by “Bill and Alex” of the Down-
wn Branch, Y. M. C. A. “Bill” is \V. T.

;‘- owe, Director of Physical Education, and
‘Alex” is T. R. Alexander, a member of the

staff. The Saturday night “Recreo” has pre-
sented weekly for the past six months games,
stunts, swimming and life saving instructions,
Camp Fire programs and other suggestions of
recreation for schools, churches, young people’s
organizations, and the home. Listeners from
thirty-one different states and seven foreign
countries were among the 1,600 who requested
Hallowe’en material following one Saturday eve-
ning broadcast. Monthly “Recreo” bulletins are
niimeographed and mailed to listeners on request.
Several complete party programs are included in
each evening’s broadcast with other miscellaneous
suggestions.

Juvenile Delinquency—One of the principal
causes of delinquency is lack of individual atten-
tion for public school children, was the statement
made at the two day conference on social planning
for youth held in November in Buffalo. Ten
specific suggestions were made concerning the
best way to safeguard the children of the depres-
sion. One of these related definitely to recrea-
tion. “Use recreational agencies to the fullest
extent in removing causes of juvenile delin-
quency.”

  

Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
To Equipment and Supplies

 
    

A year-round reference book for
swimming pools and other public
bathing places. A bound volume.

Contains, among other material, the
Rules, Laws and Regulations of the
various States and some cities. The
Regulations were compiled by the
Sanitary Engineering Department of
the State of Illinois.

In this volume every important
phase of the swimming pool and
beach is dealt with by outstanding
engineers and municipal and State
departments—design, operation. con-
struction, sanitation. maintenance,
etc.

 
       
   
   
   
             
       
     
       
 

Price $2.00

Volume will be oflr the press later part of January
ADDRESS

NOTABLE SWIMMING POOLS and

GUIDE to EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES
114 E. 32nd Street, New York, N. Y.

   

 

    
   
      

544 WORLD AT PLAY

I SOMETHING NEW I

A waterproof and sanitary covering for
diving boards; used also as runners in
shower rooms, corridors, recreation rooms
———any place where floors present a slipping
hazard which sometimes causes serious and
expensive personal injury. Besides being
sanitary, this material WILL OUTWEAR
ORDINARY COCOA-MATTING. .

Ask for literature and prices on
RUBBER-TEX

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.

ANDERSON INDIANA

 

Washington’s Parks—-—In the Annual Report
of the. Director of Public Buildings and Public
Parks of the National Capital the following rec-
reation facilities are listed for the principal parks
and reservations under the jurisdiction of the
Office of Public Buildings and Parks: Archery
greens, 6; ahtletic fields, 2; band concerts, 47;
baseball diamonds, 27; basketball courts, 2; bath-
ing pools, 3; boating, 2; cricket field, I; croquet
courts, 9; field hockey, 3; fishing, 4; football
fields, 13; golf courses (9-hole), 9; horseshoe
courts, 11; picnic groves, 18; polo fields, 2;
sand boxes, 23; soccer fields, 2; tennis courts, 77;
tourist camp, I; volleyball courts, 2.

Improvements In Interstate Park Through
Relief Labor—One thousand men from New
York City, including many white collar workers
who are now on the list of the Emergency Work
and Relief Administration, are employed in vari-
ous sections of the Palisades Interstate Park in
Rockland and Orange Counties, New York, and
will continue to be employed with wages suffi-
cient to keep themselves and their families
through the winter. In addition, unemployed
men from Rockland County and from the City
of Newburgh will also be given work. This has

been made possible by an allocation of $268,5
from the funds appropriated by the New Yor
Legislature last winter for the use of the temp
rary emergency relief administration. The Nex
York Central Railroad is cooperating by provid
ing special trains on its West Shore division to t
sections of the park where the work is to be don
Park trucks meet the trains and take the 
to the centers of work. A great variety of wor
will be done for the permanent improvement 0
the park as a playground for the people of Nex
York and New Jersey. One of the projects is t
development of four quarry floors for picnic an
play uses. A number of roads will be built an
extensive forestry work will be done.

City Playgrounds Use County Park—Dur
ing the past summer nine all-day picnics we .
conducted by the Newark, New Jersey, Recrea
tion Department in the mountain reservation o
the Essex County Park Commission. On eac
outing there were children from four or five play
grounds accompanied by playground leader'
The children met at 9:30 in the morning at thei
own playground with their lunches. Each pair
I5 cents for the round trip bus fare to the reser
vation. The day was spent in playing games 0
all kinds, usually organized by the children them
selves, and hiking, dancing and simple handcraft
It was a period of free play for the childre
and the playground leaders. The picnics wer
very popular and Will be continued next year.

A New Park for Berlin—Berlin’s newes
park known as “Rehberge Park,” one of th
largest and most beautiful in the city, covers a
area of almost 300 acres and includes the Plotzei
Lake on the shore of which a bathing beach ha
been established. The increasing popularity of :1
kinds of sports has led to the creation in the par
of numerous athletic fields and the constructio
of a club house and adequate dressing room
The Plotzen Lake, with an area of about 2
acres. is used for aquatic sports. A number 0
promenades have been laid out, and flowers an
well kept turf are everywhere.

A Municipal Yacht Association—The Mu
nicipal Yacht Association of Los Angeles, Cali
fornia, became a reality under the leadership 0
the Playground and Recreation Department whe
the Hollywood Yacht Club, the first member uni
of the association, was organized. The new asso

 

    
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   

ciation includes more than eighty boat owners
sailing the smaller type of craft. The organiza-
t10n will provide racing competition for small
bsailboats and stimulate general interest in yacht-
ing. It will bring, it is hoped, the sport of yacht-
ing within the reach of the man of moderate
means.

New Community Center Established—
Shaker Heights, Ohio, :1 community of approx-
imately 18,000 people, has established in the high
school building a winter recreation program for
dults. A recreation council is in charge of the
Iprogram which is being conducted as an experi-
ment. The center was opened on October 26th,
,and for eight weeks will be operated on a no
charge basis, the instructors from the school
:faculty volunteering their services and the Board
,of Education furnishing facilities without charge.
After January Ist it is planned to charge enough
lto cover the cost of instruction. Activities in-
.clude bridge, swimming, Badminton, gymnasium
'classes, sewing, industrial hobbies and basketball.
The building is roofed with hand-made shingles
or boards dipped in creosote. Plans have been
developed for a rustic fence made of logs and
stones at the end of the new fill in front of the
shelter house. Construction has been started on
a storage shed made of logs which will be approx-
imately IO by II feet and which will house tools,
supplies and wood.

l

A Park Center for the Unemployed—At
\Veissner Park in Fort \Vayne, Indiana, the
Board of Park Commissioners last year pro-
vided a social center for unemployed men in a
arge room beneath the band stand building,
formerly used for storage. At a cost of a few
'hundred dollars the floor of the room was ce-
mented, the walls painted. tables and benches
provided, the premises wired for electric lights,
a stove installed for heating, and in a smaller
“room a toilet and lavatory were installed.
During the fall and winter months the room
‘was filled with unemployed men reading, play-
ing cards and talking. The visitors have cared
for the premises and have maintained perfect
order.

Insurance Against Crime
(Continued #01:} page 510)

lore in that respect'than any other large city

WORLD AT PLAY 545

in the United States. The problem is not con-
fined to Richmond or to any specific commu-
nity. It is one in which the people of this
country as a whole are interested. The cam—
paign for law enforcement can only report
conditions as they exist. No committee, no
commission, however powerful or sagacious,
can successfully cope with the problem of en-
forcement unless the boy or girl is early taught
respect for law and authority. There can be
no real achievement unless our younger men
and women develop the character training
necessary for good citizenship.

The policy that I have to sell you refers to
future citizenship. It insures an active, healthy
environment for every boy and girl; it assures
good use of leisure time; it provides sympa—
thetic guidance in the choice of vocation; it
creates friendships that arouse creative rather
than destructive instincts; it makes for the
right kind of group formations; it combines
the influences of the home and church and
school toward decent living and constructive

citizenship.

Diamond Horseshoe Courts are easily installed. Can
be used indoors or out. Stake tilted at proper angle
toward opposite court.

Also a complete line of pitching shoe accessories
and many styles of horseshoes. The Eagle Ringer

illustrated below is the leader of the line.
Write for information. We'll be glad to help you

lay out your courts.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE Co.
4610 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

EAGLE RINGER

 

546

MABEL E. MACOMBER

WATER STUNTS

W.

BY SCULLING w: 7-H mm om
MAD m SPREAD 494.97: Pisan
A 3591:: or 0401 WARD mmn

1m Boar w LAYOUT nos/rm.

NHALE QUICKLY Tuna/6H M0077!
WHEN FACE cm M 5m; “EEP
WATER FROM N05: or m
alumna/v 51510!” James.

:5 QBMARINE .
Scan Mm Mute; arr ow:
m we no“. pas/rm me mm
1. MM: name» as KIIP mm
man an» aomv “mm.
Mam: “my. YARDS Manama
man; mew 5cm Arm pawn;
ms: nosz as mar ASNA'WI
an .saum pm: .

 

On heavy cardboard, coated
with paraffin, ready to hang on
wall in swimming pool, locker
room, gymnasium, or out of
doors.

42 stunts diagrammed and de-
scribed. See sample stunts

above. Size of chart—16”x12”
6-ply yellow cardboard.

Entertaining

and

Instructive

Ready now; 50c. each; ten for
two dollars. By mail, postpaid.

SCI-IOLASTIC

COACH BOOKSHOP

155 EAST 44TH STREET
NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

' juvenile delinquency.

Mabel E. Macomber.

On January 15th Mabel E. Macomber,
pioneer of the playground movement, died in Ne
York City. In 1903 Miss Macomber took char
of a small playground in Brooklyn sponsored a
the Children’s Aid Society. With this ventu
began her interest in playgrounds which last
throughout her life. A few years later she o
ganized the City Playground League of Ne
York, serving as its president from 1908 to 192
From 1923 to 1927 she was chairman of t
Rusurban Play Park Committee in Brookly
She also served on many other committees wor
ing to secure for children opportunities for pla
As probation officer during the latter part of h
life, Miss Macomber advocated playgrounds .
one of the most effective means of combati

     

1

O

The results of Miss Macomber’s long exper
ence in pioneering work, as well as her convi
tions on the value of playgrounds and the be
ways of administering them, are incorporated i
a book, Playground Mystery Boxes, which w
published in 1927.

Sky Hooks

(Continued from page 516)

These officials know that every normal boy b
tween the ages of eight and eleven is a Tarzan .
heart in this year of grace, 1933, so here he ma
try out the role in a specially equipped Tarza
jungle, rope vines, trees to climb and all. The
know, too, that every boy and girl under twelv
years of age longs to test their daring in gettin
lost, hence the magic woods maze. And the
realize that the thing the boy’s dog and rabb
stand for in the development of his emotion
life is almost as deep and instinctive a part 0
him as are hunger and thirst; so here he may se
how baby lambs and calves and ponies are fe
and cared for on a miniature farm, and perhap
even he may ride the ponies.

Then, lastly, because these same wise peopl
know that “going places and seeing sights” is
thing that actually feeds the cockles of one’
heart, whether he be eight years old or eigh
they have planned some extensive “travelling.
There will be a miniature railway—Alice prob°
bly would say that I should have put this in t
story long ago—a railway brave in paint, an
panting with pent-up 'energy to be off, that o i
may mount' and ride all around Enchanted Islan

m 4.9 .d- —.~—-~— ‘4‘

w—. ——.-.-- .

ll

SKY HOOKS 547

n

M’hether one rides freight or pullman, one
Catches breath-taking glimpses of story book
heroes and animals that only Aladdin’s jinn could
ver have conjured up; one may even roar
through tunnels that miraculously have become
ocenes from famous scenic spots in America.
And, if one doesn’t like trains, there will be tiny
boats on a tiny stream that will carry one as
'ghtly as any swan past isles of delight.
, No doubt, a few months from now, when a
sleepy, contented Alice snuggles up to her father

they drive leisurely home to Indiana or Maine
r Colorado, she will whisper to him:

“Daddy, why is it called a Century of Pro-
ress?”

And her father will probably answer:

“Because it shows us grown-ups what a hun-

red years have done to science and art and busi-
ess and education.”

“But Enchanted Island "'

“Shows us what a hundred years have done to
lay.” Then Alice’s father will look very thought-
11]. “Sky hooks! All sorts of ideas of ours

rapped with those columns that shut out the
iew and take up space. Honest, unafraid things,
ke the steel supports; inside of things on the

tside.”

And probably Alice will merely murmur:

“Then the White Rabbit was right after all.”

 

Musical Games and Informal Dances
(Continued from page 519)

asp the string with his left hand. Instruct
erybody to face right and follow the leader in a
iral march. After the spiral is unwound, the
'rector compliments the guests upon their ability
follow a leader perfectly. He tells them further
t the next march will be slightly different and
guarantees that it will be a success, if every
rcher maintains his hold on the string. (Can-
u be done.)
The leader winds the spiral in the usual man-
r, but, what a different way of unwinding itl
stead of reversing his steps he ducks under the
ing in various places, making it impossible for.
- others to follow him. He continues in this
nner calling constantly, “Hold on to your
ing!” In less than a half-minute the players
'll have strung themselves together in a con-
' ed and compact mass.
Notes for Leader. It will be very easy for all
yers to extricate themselves if the leader will
truct every one to place his string on the floor.

In another variation of this march, thread is
substituted for string, and the players are in-
structed to hold onto the thread and, when the
signal is given, rush for chairs. To assure a grand
“break-up” announce that there are a few less
chairs than the number of players, and those who
fail to get one will be “Its” for the next game.

Purchasing Points of Winter Sports
Equipment
(Continued from page 530)
to suspend snowshoes either temporarily or dur-
ing the seasons of use and during the storage
period. '

Both skis and snowshoes should be stored in a
place which is not subject to frequent changes of
temperature, such as an unheated basement room.
Rats sometimes do a great deal of damage to
winter sports equipment especially to straps and
webbing. Ski poles should always be hung by the
straps during both the seasons of use and of
storage. Linseed oil may also be used on ski
poles and toboggans—much cracking and break-
ing due to dryness thus being averted. Varnish-

ing of the surface of a toboggan is also
recommended.

Journal of
Physical Education

Write for the February issue
if you would know:

What should Comprise a Physical Edu-
cation Program for Men as Revealed
by Research.

Facts Relative to Canadian YMCA
Physical Education in 1932.

How Japan Produced a Winning Team
in the Swimming Events at the
Olympics

How to Make Your Class Volley Ball

Period Interesting.

Subscribe for the year if you are interested
in other phases of physical education.

347 MADISON AVENUE

New YORK CITY

Oversea: and Canada. $3.25
Single Copies. 35¢.

Price. S 3.00

II

548 STANDARDS FOR A RECREATION SYSTEM

The chief source of deterioration of winter
sports equipment against which to guard is the
action of the air in drying out equipment, plus
damage done by frequent changes in temperature.

The Play House as a Part of Play Day
(Continued from page 531)

Number four, the children’s library or read-
ing room, was attractively decorated with tables,
chairs and bookcases made from peach boxes
painted green and orange. The chairs were
cushioned with cretonne in keeping with the
color scheme. Picture books, made by the chil-
dren of the first grade of the Mayville city
schools, and story books loaned by different
members of the community, were the main fea-
tures of this room.

From eight o’clock in the morning until after
live o’clock in the afternoon the play house was
alive with children. An accurate check on at-
tendance was not taken, but by counting every
child that entered and took part in some activity
in the house, it was found that from one hundred
to over three hundred children were accommo-
dated every hour during the time that the house

was open.

The New

CAMPING

Magazine

The 0fjicial Journal of the Camp

Directors’ Association of America

For recreational leaders—here is
timely opinion, experience and
news of camp experts and the
camping world.

25 cents a cepy . . $2.00 a year

CAMP DIRECTORS9
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
551 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

The play house had a twofold value in offeri
helpful suggestions to teachers for their scho
programs, and in meeting an outstanding need I
the play day program.

Standards For a Recreation System in

Community of IO0,000
(Continued from page 534)

the program should provide opportunity for sati !
faction of the major interests of the entire pop 
lation——games, sports, musical opportunities, dr
matic opportunities, social, cultural, literary a
scientific opportunities—in their various form).
and degrees. In general, the Recreation Depar’
ment should stand willing to provide inexpensi
facilities and leadership for any desired and wor it
while leisure time activities for which there is 
demand from a reasonably large number of peopl
—-—say, a minimum of fifty—and should provicnI
opportunity for training of volunteer leadersh'_'
in various recreation activities. It should also 1::
prepared to assist community groups in picnicl’
particularly by loaning equipment and helping ii
the planning of programs. 1
To provide a service of this kind a city shou '
probably have available a budget of $75,000 {(3.1
the active leadership of a program covering tlll
whole city, exclusive of the cost and maintenanqi
of park and recreational areas and facilities. Tltl
total current expenditures for operating and main.
taining areas and facilities and for providing reli
reation leadership. and service should probab'a
be three dollars per capita per annum, 9
$300,000. .
There must, of course, be an administrati'
group charged with the responsibility of devel
ing and administering the recreational progra
Such administrative machinery should be able _
use, so far as is consistent with other use,
public and private facilities offering recreatio
possibilities, should direct the program, secub
high grade personnel, secure and administer b
gets and be constantly alert to enlarge the serv '
both through acquisition and use of additio
facilities in accordance with the city plan a
through the development of the program of act
ities. It is believed that, other conditions be'
equal, the best results can be obtained when
recreation program is administered by a recr
tion board or committee composed of individu
keenly interested in community recreation a
serving without pay.

 
   

   
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
  
   
   
 
    
 
 

 

 

 

OUR DECISION 15

>>

Our Decision Is

<<<

What dimensions are desirable for handball?

A. The standard dimensions for a one-wall
handball court are:

Height of wall 16 feet
Width of wall 20 feet
Width of court 20 feet
Length of court 34 feet

Must the server stand outside of court when
serving?

A. The service marking line is drawn in
nine feet back of the short line. The
server must stand between the short line
and the service line before starting his
service, and must not step over the short

line or outside of the side lines while
serving.

When the ball. on the way to the wall. hits
an opponent, does he lose the point?

A. No—the ball is considered dead and is
replayed without penalty to either side.

Can a ball be hit on the “ily”—(before it
touches the floor) ?

A. Yes.

If the ball hits a player on the way back
from the wall, who scores the point?

A. A point is given to the opponent of the
person hit by the ball on the way back
from the wall.

Is the tennis plan of scoring generally used
in handball?

A. No—the plan of scoring is similar to
that used in volley ball. A person scores
only when he has started to serve on the
play in which the opponent fails to
make a legal return.

How do you determine a “hinder"—(a
play in which the opponent prevents you
from getting a fair chance to return the ball?)

A. I f a player after striking the ball remains
perfectly still and by so doing "hides"
the ball or prevents his opponent from
securing a clear return, it is a legitimate
play and is not a “block” or “hinder”.
If a player crosses in front of the ball
obstructing opponent’s view and play
of the ball, it constitutes a “hinder”.

8. What constitutes a fair service?

ice ball striking the short-line is con-
srdered a short ball. If, however, the
service ball strikes the side-lines or the
long-line, it is considered a good ball.
With the exception of the short-line, all
line balls are considered good.

 

 

Notes on Regional Planning, Govern-
ment and Administration in
Metropolitan Areas

( Continued fr‘om page 540)

was similar to that which is provided for recrea-
tion. development in many states enabling acts
which permit cities, towns, counties and school

boards to cooperate or generally administer recre-
ation programs.

An extremely interesting feature of this meet-
ing was the almost casual reference to recreation
on the part of engineers to recreation and the
need for increased consideration of the recrea-
tional needs of a region, in view of the increasing
amount of leisure. It is indicative of the extent
to which the problem of the recreational use of
leisure is receiving greater consideration, that an
hydraulic engineer should refer to the fact that
in regional planning the most effective plan for
the use of water supply must consider the recre-
ational needs of the region as well as the needs
for drinking and sanitary disposal purposes; also
that an engineer who has been devoting all of his
time to the study of sewage problems and the
planning of sewage disposal systems should refer
to the consideration of the recreational needs of
water areas when planning sewage disposal.

The conference reflected an increasing tendency
to believe that a panacea for all administrative
difficulties in public service can be solved through
larger political units. There may be serious dan-
ger ahead if careful thought is not given to the
disadvantages of size in political units, as well
as to the advantages of control of larger areas
which can be more readily secured with only one
governmental unit to deal with. The loss in re-
moving government still further from its citizen-

ship may more than offset the advantages to
planning.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 54

Radio Calls As a Delinquency Index

(Continued from page 535)
city of Los Angeles there were only 147 com-
plaints on Hallowe’en. In the three districts
which had the most complaints there was no
playground service whatever. In twenty-four dis-
tricts in which playgrounds were located there
were no complaints at all. ,In thirteen additional
districts with playground service there was only
one complaint per district. In two districts with
playground service there were two complaints
each. In five districts, three complaints each; in
two districts five complaints each, and in one
district seven complaints. This last district was
the one referred to above, where the playground
is cut off from half of the district by a range of
hills. The entire east side area, 'which is usually
considered to be the delinquency area in Los
Angeles, reported only three complaints during
the evening.

Recreation Activities for Girls
( Continued from page 539)

the planning of recreation programs. A feature
of the training course was a series of five lectures
on the development of charm through good taste
in dress, grace and rhythm, beauty in the home,
social poise and cultural pursuits. A charge of
fifty cents was made for the entire course, twenty-
five cents for a single session.

A Special Committee Helps

The girls of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, will re-
ceive special attention under a plan involving the
organization of a committee on recreation for
girls which is being formulated under the auspices
of the Recreation and Playground Association,
the Y. W. C. A., industries and similar groups.
The swmming pool and gymnasium of the
Y. W. C. A. will be placed at the disposal of all
girls in the community as a first step, and other
activities will soon be added to the program.

 

 

Correction
In January RECREATION, Superintendent Logan

of the Newark schools was erroneously quoted as
stating that the recreational activities in the Es-
sex County Park System were under the direc-
tion of the Recreation Department of the Newark
Schools. The Essex County Park Commission as
is well known conducts its own activities. It is in
the city parks of Newark that the recreation de-
partment of the schools by a special arrangement
conducts the recreation activities.

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to Recreation Executives

MAGAZINES

Social Forces, December, 1932.

The Development of Community Centers in Chicag
by A. Steven Stephan.

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Educ

tion Association, December, 1932.
Bibliography for 1931, compiled by G. B. Affleck.

Mind and Body, December, 1932.

Physical Education for Mentally Retarded Pupil
by W. Henbert Grigson.

Play as a Means of Character Education for
Individual, by John C. Kieiier.

A Community Play Program in Coimbatore, Indi
by D. Santiago.

Colonial Dance.

The Parents’ Magazine, January, 1933.
Preparing for Leisure, by Helen Woodbury.
Learning Through Play, by Amy M. Hostler.

Better Times, January, 1933.
What Girls Like to Do in Their Spare Time, .
Julietta B. Kahn.

The Journal of Physical Education, January, 1933.
What Is Civilization Doing to Us? by
Rogers.
Progressive Education and Promotion of Athleti
Meets, by Royal H. Burpee.

Newark School Bulletin, December, 1932.
An Adventure in Community Cooperation by Jaco
W. Feldman.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, Januar
1933.
A City-VVide Winter Sports Program, by Richer
J. Schmoyer.
Purchasing Points of Winter Sports Equipment, b

Lena Walmsley.
The Noon-Hour Problem, by Louis Kulcinski.

The American City, January, 1933.
How Red Wing Was Given 232 Acres of Park.

’~—(
in
B
a
U)
u

PAMPHLETS

Annual Repbrt of the Director of Public Buildings an
Public Parks of the National Capitol, 1932.

Annual Report of Parks and Recreation Commissioners 0
Worcester, Massachusetts for year ending Novembe

30, 1931.

Annual Report of the Department of Recreation Cam
and Playgrounds of Los Angeles County for the yea
ending June 30th, 1932.

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners, L
Angeles, 1931.

Twentieth Annual Report of the Chief of the Children’
Bureau for the year ending June 30, 1932.

Annual Report of the American Colony Aid Associatio
for the year 1931—1932.

The Heart of the School, Henry C. Frick Education
Commission, Union Trust Building, Pitts-burgh, Penn
sylvania. '

What Pittsburgh Junior High School Pupils Read, Hen
C. Frick Educational Commission, Union Trust Build
mg, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

 

 

 

I New Books on Recreation

Life Begins at Forty

\R'alter B. Pitkin. \Vittlesey House. (McGraw-Hill
ok Company, New York). $1.50.

HERE is a brave new world spinning out of the ma-
chine age to be enjoyed by those Americans now in
ly life, according to Mr. Pitkin who is Professor in
urnalism at Columbia University. He urges the great-

use of leisure in those activities which make the few-
' demands on energy—thought, writing and observa-
n. To enjoy the life that begins at forty, he writes,
e must learn at home and must fully realize that each
son has a set amount of energy that cannot be added
. It is a happy picture he paints for the American who
5 rightly used in his early years his energy, intellect
d leisure. “Before you there will be no despair, be-
d you no vanity. From childhood to the coming of
I age you will expand serenely, ever learning, ever
ting new joys. At forty you will ‘be wiser and happier
n at thirty. At fifty you will be clearer, steadier and
rer than at forty. At sixty you will be planning auto-

bile trips to Mexico, a new sailboat, a fresh study of
ur village finances.”

 
    
     
   
   
   
   
 
  

Game Preferences of I0,000
Fourth Grade Children

‘ Norma Schwendener. O’btaina'ble from author at
chers College, New York. $1.10.

THE report of this study, submitted in partial ful-
llnient of the requirements for the degree of Doctor
Philosophy in the faculty of phi1050phy, Columbia
iversity, Miss Schwendener presents a number of and-
s and recommendations. A few of them follow: “It
recommended that due to the lack of (1) sex differ-
e shown in the choice of games, the game program
uld be identical for boys and girls of the fourth
e; (2) climatic and seasonal effect shown in choice
games, the game program should no longer be varied
these reasons; (3) a large number of preferred
es, the game program should consist of but ten or
lve games containing the four necessary game ele-
nts found in this study; (4) evidence of favor of a
e program taught by a specially prepared teacher of
. sical education, that until further evidence is brought
bear the game program be taught by the classroom

her supervised by a specially prepared supervisor of
sical education."

 
   
   
  
   
    
   

Symphonic Broadcasts

Olin Downes. Lincoln MacVeagh, The Dial Press,
., New York. $2.50.

a Symphonic Broadcasts will give to many radio
listeners a welcome opportunity to consider in leisure
was of necessity given for them in haste during the

 

intermissiOns of broadcast concerts by the Philharmonic-
Symphony Orchestra and the Curtis’ Institute Orchestra
last winter. Though somewhat extended and in other
ways made fit for the cold white page, these comments

on the compositions played at the concerts have lost lit-
tle of the animation and directness of Mr. Downes’

speaking. Each of about eighty-five works worthy of the
great Philharmonic Orchestra is set amidst ideas of its

composer’s intentions, of his nature and environment,
his relations to other composers or to interesting per-
sonages in other arts or literature, and ideas of the

character and form of the music itself.

“My own experience,” says Mr. Downes. “is that often
a chance remark, or a sentence read, is sufhcient to con-
nect music and imagination, and that once such a rela-
tion is established between an individual and a master-
piece the rest quickly follows." His book is full of
chance remarks and some profound ones, too, that are
bound to touch off that fire of the imagination in which
the music and the listener’s spirit are fused, and the

mind may be enlightened. It is a reference book to

serve the radio or concert listener or the owner of

phonograph records whenever any of the works on

which it-comments is to be played. But it is also well
worth reading from beginning to end, for besides repre-
senting composers and some of their music in ways that
are unusually revealing even to the least musically culti-
vated, it presents a person, in its writer, whose own love
and undertanding of music are very contagious. After

all, the best in appreciation can only be caught, not
taught.—Aucusrus D. ZANZIG.

Textbook of Social Dancing

By Agnes L. Marsh and Lucile Marsh. J. Fischer 8:
Bro., New York. $2.50.

THIS BOOK has been published in response to requests

from principals, teachers, recreation leaders and par-
ents for a modern systematic method of handling the
teaching of dancing, which has become so important a
phase of social life today. The method described has
been successfully used over a period of years at a num-
ber of educational institutions. The book is made up of
five distinct sections—theory; technique; social aids;

parties—twelve are outlined—and teaching the social
dance.

Intercollegiate Swimming Guide-l933

Edited by Edward T. Kennedy. National Collegiate

Athletic Association. Spalding’s Athletic Library. No.
91R. $.25.

SWIMMING, diving and water polo are the three main

subjects discussed in this booklet presenting the of-
ficial rules adopted by the National Collegiate Athletic
Association. All-America collegiate and scholastic selec—
tions are given, and there are records and reviews.

551

552 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Felt Toys.

By Elsie Mochrie and I. P. Roseaman. Published
by the Dryad Press, England. Supplied in U. S. A.
by the Manual Arts Press, Peoria, IllInOIS. $1.25. .
Here is an excellent handcraft subject for girls for it
creates a lively interest and provides an opportunity for
learning more about animals and birds. It gives prac-
tice in accurate and neat workmanship, in placing. and
sewing the patterns together, and is therefore an aid to
dressmaking. Instructions are given for making eight
toys and animals. There are photographs and dia-
grams which will help the toy maker.

The Making of Soft Toys.
By C. Elliot Edlmann. Published by the Dryad
Press, England. Supplied in U. S. A. by the Man-
ual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $1.10.

Soft toy making is a fascinating craft and can be
carried on with very little outlay in the matter of tools.
It is an excellent way of using up those odd lengths and
left over pieces of silk and velvet which are apt to lie
for years in the piece bag. Many of these make charm-
ing toys, and the tOy maker can exercise much ingenuity.
A set of full sized patterns for ten animals and birds 18
included.

Club Program Suggestions for Special Days.
By Pearl B. Broxam. University of Iowa, Iowa
City, Iowa. $.25.

This is one of a series of the study programs prepared
by the Club Program and Bulletin Service of the Ex-
tension Division of the State University of Iowa. Each
outline contains enough material for more than a year’s
study. Suggestions are offered in this bulletin for the
celebration of eight holidays and special days, and there
is a list of special entertainments for women’s clubs.

Manual of Physical Education for Elementary
Schools.
State of West Virginia. Revised by V. G. Upton,
State Director of Physical Education. State Depart-
ment of Education, Charleston, W. Va.

The State Department of Education has recently re-
vised its manual, which now contains chapters on Organ-
ization and Administration, Methods Of Teaching, Team
and Non-team Games, Rhythms, Folk Plays and Singing
Games, Story Plays, Mimetics, Stunts, Contests, March-
ing, National Physical Achievement Standards, Athletic
Badge Tests, Home Made Play Apparatus, and many
other practical subjects. The Manual is exceedingly
comprehensive and should prove invaluable to the teach-
ers of West Virginia.

Lads’ Clubs.
By Charles E. B. Russell, M. A. and Lilian M. Rus-
sell. Published in the U. S. A. 'by the Macmillan
Company, New York. $1.75.

Mrs. Russell’s revision of Working Lads’ Clubs written
in 1908 by Mrs. Russell and the late C. E. B. Russell
tells of the history, organization and management of the
Lads’ Clubs of Great Britain. While it touches upon aims
and growth of the movement, it has much to offer along
such practical lines as buildings and equipment, finances,
leadership and program of activities. In revising the
book while many details have necessarily been changed,
care has been taken to keep undimmed Mr. Russell’s
personality and principles.

Mental Whoopee.

Fall 1932 Edition. Simon and Schuster, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $1.00.

Here are “brain twisters” and puzzles which will test
your observation, concentration and sense of deduction
in novel and painless Ways! Each problem is presented
on duplicate sheets of paper made up in pads, and the
answer to each “Whoopee” is found on the inside card-
board cover of each pad. Each is played as a competi-
tive game which is most enjoyable when six or more
people participate.

Official Ice Hockey Guide—1932-1933

Edited by Rufus J. Trim-ble. National Collegia
Athletic Association. Spalding’s Athletic Libra
No. 92-R. $.25.
The rules of the National Collegiate Athletic Associ
tion appear in this booklet. These rules contain no ra

cal changes from last year. The booklet also inclu
records and a number of articles.

Stenciling

By Adelaide Mickel. The Manual Arts Press, Peor'
Illinois. $.85.

Every step in the process of stenciling, from making
design and transferring it to the completion of t
article, is clearly outlined in detail in this book. 0
fifty projects are described and many illustrations 21
presented.

Games We Like Best

By Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Richard
Smith, Inc., New York. $1.50.

A hundred leaders Of social recreation have cont
buted to this practical collection of usable games th
two or three most successful ones. Re-adaptations
many tested favorites in settings that are different an
number of new combinations will add spice and vari
to parties of all kinds. Directions are given for over A
games and activities. The final chapter is devoted
party outlines arranged by months.

Volley Ball—Official Rules 1933

Edited by George J. Fisher, M. D. Spaldin
Athletic Library. No. 120-R. $.25.

This booklet, containing the rules adopted by t
United States Volley Ball Association, has four disti
parts—Part I, Official Playing Rules; Part II, Spec
Articles and Technique; Part III, Reviews and Repor
and Part IV, Intensive Volley Ball.

 

Oliicers and Directors of the Nationa

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. THOHAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIrrITHs, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. Loours, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MR3. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERch S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAuEs W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WAREURc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAn H. WOODIN, J 1., Plainfield, N. J.

 

