Using Leisure For Government

leisure on their hands. Older men come looking about them for something to do to have

a good time. Many come to a recreation center because they want to spend part of
their time doing things with other people——preferably with people whom they like. Often
they care more for the comradeship in having an excuse for being together than they do for
the particular activity. Men like to be with other men. Not only is their satisfaction in activi-
ties—athletic, musical, dramatic—in the field of craftsmanship, nature, or in worship, or in
the common study of some problem. In various forms of service always for many there has
been pleasure in the comradeship and in the activities themselves. Men like to feel that they
count whether it be in helping to put out a fire, in digging out after a blizzard, or in serving as
volunteer leaders of boys' and girls' groups.

T  OUNGSTERS come to playgrounds, athletic fields, community centers with increasing

In times past many have wished they had the leisure for such activities, have envied
those who could so help. Now—soon—kno one need deny his longing to be a part of his gov-
ernment, his neighborhood in a real way—because of lack of time. There will be a distribu-
tion of free time that will mean leisure for all. Men can do that for which they have secretly

longed.

What is done in leisure time in government service will not in any large part be related
to the local recreation system—though there are large opportunities for government service in
volunteer recreation leadership. Rather recreation leaders as they think of their programs, as
they relate these programs to schools, libraries, churches and other groups, will remember
that many obtain great pleasure and happiness in government and community service and
that time enough ought to be free for such service; that the community recreation center can
create an atmosphere favorable to volunteer government service; that the community center
can help in developing leadership which will make government service more attractive and

more popular.

What recreation leaders have in the back of their minds is often just as important as
what is in front. One of the ideas which should always be in that background is the im-
portance of government service.

We are all a part of the government. Many of us can in the new era serve on local
government committees and be active in securing proper consideration of government ques-
tions from the point of view of all the people.

New leisure means a new deepening of human activity. Volunteer work for one's local,
state or national government, though not classed as recreation, has great recreation and serv-
ice values, gives great satisfaction in the present and in retrospect—even when one's efforts
bring meager results. Recreation leaders can help greatly, even if somewhat indirectly, in
encouraging the use of much leisure for government service.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

June, |931+

 

12.l

V

 

oming— acation ays!

There are countless delights aheod For
the children whom June releoses From
school and who ore going to the coun-
try or to camp! Long rides in iolting
Farm wagons, overnight camping trips,
sleeping under the sky, pets to play
with, trees to climb, swimming holes
to splash inc-these are a Few of the
ioys awaiting thousands of children!

And For those who must spend
the summer at home there are
the playgrounds with all they
have to offer in good times,
companionship, opportunity to
make things, to take port in
games, go on hikes and do the
thousand and one things dear
to the hearts of all children.

 

When You Plan Your Summer Program

Your community will benefit from knowing what some
other cities are doing on their summer playgrounds

" AN YOU suggest anything new for our play-
C ground program?”

This is a question frequently asked. You
will, perhaps, find some suggestions which will
help you answer the question for your community
in the programs a number of cities conducted in

the summer of 1933.

Shows and Exhibits

There were last year many of the ever-popular
shows such as doll shows, pet shows and exhibits
of various kinds. In Dalton, Massachusetts, for
example, there were 197 dolls entered in the .show
held at the Community House. .Points were given
in a number of classifications-for the oldest doll,
ugliest, largest, smallest, best baby girl doll, best
baby boy (1011, best nationality doll, best home-
made, best family group, best doll wardrobe, and

best animal and character doll.

Announcements. Announcements for shows of
this kind should be made as interesting as pos-
sible. Here are a few suggestions from the Read-
ing Department of Public Playgrounds and Recre-
ation for giving publicity to doll and pet shows.

Make posters attractive with illustrations cut
out of magazines and papers. How much more
interesting is this announcement: “How old is
your doll? Bring it to the doll show next Thurs-
day at 3 :00 P. M.,” than this one: “Doll Show——
Thursday—3 :00 P. M.” "

One of the first steps in preparing for a doll or
pet show is adequate publicity
through notices. Make your
show posters as appealing and
interesting as possible.

Ask parents' of children,
members of the Association
or other interested adults to
act as judges for the various

Just at this time when plans are
under way for the playground sea-
son, may we call your attention
to some publications which should

help you in planning the program.
There is the booklet “Conduct of

Playgrounds” (3.25) and its eom-

does not have more classifications than another
set. C

An announcement for a pet show might read

as follows :

“Come, bring bird, 'beast, fowl, fish, reptile, insect or pest
And awards will be given to the very best.”
“Come, folks, grown and small
. The playground pet show is for all.”

And in a pet show, the department suggests,

awards may be made for the following:

1. Largest animal
2. Smallest animal

Youngest pet

Best aquarium

10. Largest reptile (alligators, snakes)
11. Best rabbit

12. Largest two legged pet
13. Smallest two legged pct
14. Largest four legged pct
15. Smallest four legged pet
16. Most unique pet

17. Largest family of pets
18. Dog with most spots

Exhibits. Exhibits of handcraft are still in
order. The park playgrounds of Oklahoma City
last August held a handcraft exhibit at the fair
grounds. Each playground selected fifteen of its
best pieces of work for the exhibit, and a com-
mittee of judges passed on the points of merit in
each of the following group classes:

3. Most beautiful dog

4. Homliest dog

5. Cutest cat

6. Most beautiful pet bird
7. Oldest pet

8.

9.

Required

Bird houses Sailboats Oilcloth Cork

Kites Vases Clay Soap carving
Tin can articles Inner tube articles
Wooden toys Embroidery
Book ends Doll dresses
Door stops

Optional

Leather craft Paper flowers

Bead work Toy furniture

\Veaving Lanterns

Pen or pencil Puppets
drawing Cardboard ivork

Wax moulding

classifications. Distribute them
evenly so that one set of judges

panion piece “88 Successful Play
Activities ($.60). Every leader
should have these two hand books.

First, second and third place
ribbons were awarded to the

123

1.2+ H II! N l‘ Ut I’LAA l‘ UL R bL'Jh-‘lIER PROGRAM

hru heat trt‘nrl: s from each playground entered.
'n additn 1., awards were given to the three best
.rticlts in each of the twenty-live groups or
flames of the city-wide exhibit.

If a program in the nature of a demonstration

held in wamectinn with exhibits. it adds inter-
 t wina. (‘tlifnrnia. held such an exhibit at
its ,la‘gruund fair and in connection with it a
pr-rgram was ulfered. including a pantomime, a
'lernnnstratinn of wrt stling. a pet show, and after
. pitnic supper a grand tinale in the. form of a
lan'ern fete.

And They’re Still Making Things!

Ft tell of all the handcraft projects which last
«winner inttigued the children of \nterica’s play -
grounds would be an impossible task. But here
is a special ll-IN‘ from Lancaster.

\s this city is universally known as a leading
hnuleum manufacturing center, the Recreation
and Playground .‘\:~hn(‘iallull has felt it appropri-
stc tn sj'ecialize in handcraft articles made frnm
this material. This plan has been tacilitated by

gifts from the Armstrong Linoleum and Cork
Company of a generous amount of linoleum and
cork scraps. most of it cut in squares running
from 5 inches to 12 and 15 inches. The children
were taught by the supervisors to wield their
tools skilfully—for the most part ordinary knives
were used-wand by .the end of the season linoleum
far outnumbered other handeraft projects, being
popular with both boys and girls.

Some excellent pictures were made of ships.
uirds, animals. various scenes and designs. and
clever doorstops. l‘tookends and calendars were de-
signed. A number of especially attractive pictures
were carved f 11 an white linoleum, one of a .lapan-
ese girl painted in black. A portrait of George
\Yashington cut in cork. the shadows brought out
by the use of black paint. made a particularly ef—
fective picture. A number of inlays were also
done remarkably well. The playground awards
were made at the oflice with a linoleum block de-
signed by the handcraft instructor. The seal on
the swimming certificates was made in the same
way.- At the time of the handcraft exhibit an en-
tire windnw was devoted to the linoleum articles,

 

f’. I ' , 1 ‘rm-v

WHEN YOU PLAN YOUR SUMMER PROGRAM 125

and the ingenuity and artistic workmanship shown
were widely commended.

Contests. There is always the' fun of doing
something interesting with the thing you have
made, and so contests will ever be a universally
popular sport.

. Sixty boats were entered in the second annual

regatta conducted by the playground children of
Denver, Colorado. Boats were divided into five
classes according to size as follows: Class A, boats
measuring 36” and up; Class B, 24” to 36”; Class
C, 12” to 24"; Class D, boats under 12”, and
senior riggers. Awards were made on the basis of
workmanship and the appearance of the boats,
some of which were made on the summer play-
ground, som_e at school, and others at home.

Dalton’s “Feast of Lanterns” provided the chil-
dren with an opportunity to display the lanterns
they had made, and they carried them lighted in
the procession which attracted a large number of
spectators. An Oriental touch was given the event
by a large Buddha figure decorated with paper
cherry blossoms. Awards were made for the most
original lantern, the handsomest, the most unique
and the funniest. Awards were also made for

costumes.

They Like to Read

3efore their budgets were drastically cut, a
number of public libraries cooperated with recrea-
tion departments by conducting miniature branch
libraries at the playgrounds. The Public Library
of Salt Lake City did this last summer in connec—
tion with every play center which was not near a
public library branch, and reading hours were
scheduled each day.

The Hamilton, Ontario, library is one of those
which, because of lack of funds, was obliged to
discontinue this service except for one playground.
But this did not mean that the children were with-
out books, for a plan was devised whereby they
might build their own library. The fee for join-
ing this new library group was one book or five
cents. An entry in the day book of a member of
the staff of the Playground and Recreation Com-
mission shows how successfully the plan was
worked out.

“At our playground all but two helped by
bringing books. The total number of books in the
library was 127. Books were issued weekly on
Thursdays and checked off on sheets listing the
name of the books. the name and address of the
owner and a blank space for successive borrow-

ers. \Ve drew a line through the name when the
book was returned.” It was found that asking
the children to contribute their own bboks in
order to borrow others acted as a splendid check
on keeping the books in good condition and in-
sured their prompt return. All books were re-
turned to their owners at the end of the season.

Drama and Music—Always With Us

Almost three hundred playground play makers
last summer wrote and produced their own plays
in the parks of Louisville, Kentucky, complete
with home—made scenery and costumes. Ladies
and beggars of the world’s oldest stories walked
and talked again in the second annual one act play
contest held on each playground with three dis-
trict winners repeating their plays in the new
Play Makers’ Theater at Central Park. Highland
Park won first place with “The Great Bell of
Peking,” a presentation of a Chinese folk tale.
The play was repeated Mayor’s night at the
state fair.

Louisville's playgrounds enjoyed music, too,
and community singing last summer reverted to
the old custom of caroling. On playgrounds
where no piano was available, .singers visited
around the neighborhood serenading the com-
munity in return for the use of a piano. People
of all ages sang popular airs and folk songs.
Seven hundred and forty—seven individuals took
part in a singing bee.

Much interest was shown in the playground
drama tournament conducted by the Austin,
Texas, City Recreation Department. There were
three classificationso— intermediate, ten through
fourteen years; junior, fifteen through seventeen
years, and senior, eighteen years and over. One
hundred and twenty—two participants took part
and there were approximately 1,645 spectators.
The city library gave cordial cooperation in the
project, and many of the plays were presented in
the library's auditorium.

Wabash, Indiana, also had its tournament, con-
ducted in one of the parks. Twelve groups par—
ticipated in a series of one act plays which ran for
four nights, Sunday night being given over to the
presentation of religious plays. The tournament
was very successful and large audiences attended.

The Public Recreation Commission of Cincin-
nati believes heartily in music and drama as play-
ground activities. Last summer there were nine
playground groups in instrumental music made up
of children of the average age of fourteen who

1.21; WHEN YOU PLAN YOUR SUMMER PROGRAM

Cantu: C kildrcu’: Theater, Palo Alto. California

met for the most part in school buildings. The
junior League aided by giving a one act play from
time to time at the traveling theater. The League

also gave a performance of a children's play,
tickets for which were distributed through the
( fommission.

Baseball and Athletic Sports

Last mnuner more than a thousand boys from
eleven tn twenty-one years of age joined the Pon-
tiac, Michigan. Junior Baseball '\ssociation and
played the national game with great enthusiasm
throughout the season. T he boys were organized
intt. sixty teams dmded into three classifications

-( lass B, under twenty « Int— years: ( la» (2 under
\(‘thttfcn years and (lass- 1’. under fourteen
,. ear [5.11 h team player] nnre a \Vtt‘k in its regu-
lar h .gue «hedulr. but it practiced stvtral times
a. week and played game~ n ith utht-r teams nnt in-

huh .I in the .‘hedule (“nemployed fathers.
r ltlt ’ rnthers, former l‘aseball players and busi-
. um. math 1 the teams, and many an adult
art: ~~td h renewing his youth through the ac-
a ‘1' l: league were tinaneed by a donation
f s ten“ tr: w (-‘b a player in the cenior ( lass \

 

amateur league, together with receipts from
several exhibition games played by the senior
league.

l'resident \\-'ill Harridge of the American
League provided an incentive for participation by
presenting three baseballs autographed by all of
the Star American team which played at the
\Vorld's Fair in Chicago. The balls were awarded
at the annual banquet of the three winning teams
by Detroit's famous member of the team.

The Popliac Daily Press cooperated in arousing
interest by conducting a two day baseball school at
the State Hospital Field. John Kohs, Michigan
State College coach, and Charlie Gehringer. De-
troit's "tiger" second baseman. were in charge of
the school. There were classes in the fundamen-
tals uf the games. such as throwing. batting, bunt-
ing. base running and fielding. More than a thou-
sand buys sat for an hour in the bleachers while
the fundamentals were being demonstrated. Bats.
halls and coaching equipment were provided by
the Recreation Division of Pontiac. The players
furnished their own clubs and such uniforms as
they had. The majority of the boys played in
overalls.

WHEN YOU PLAN YOUR SUMMER PROGRAM 127

Neighborhood baseball leagues in all parts of
the city were organized by the Park Department
of New Haven. Under this plan, teams in various
districts were enabled to engage in contests in the
parks in their own neighborhoods. At the close of
the regular schedule there was a play off for the
title of city champion in the several age groups.
This method proved very popular, the number of
teams increasing from 47 in 1932 to 98 in 1933.
Participants increased from 800 in 1923 to 1,395
in 1933. The same method has proved popular
used in connection with soft ball, horseshoes and
other activities.

Nor were the girls neglected in the athletic
program. There were 32 teams of girls and
women playing playground ball in Cincinnati—
twice the number playing a year ago. These teams
were organized on a neighborhood basis with a
volunteer official.

Outings and Camping

Have you thought of conducting a “day camp”
for stay—at—homes?

For a period of nine weeks beginning July 3rd,
the Recreation Commission of Mount Vernon,
New York, with the cooperation of the Boys’ Club
which gave the use of its South Side Branch, con—
ducted a home day camp for boys. Under the
leadership of a camp instructor the boys took part
in basketball, wrestling, indoor baseball'and other
Hoor games. These indoor activities were for the
most part conducted on days when the weather
was inclement. In favorable

fires, swimming at nearby beaches, and outdoor
sports of all kinds. They also visited industrial
plants. The total attendance was 1,710. This was
an emergency leisure—time activity made possible
by the use of state aid funds with the cooperation
of the Board of Education.

Last summer for the fourth consecutive year
the children of Wheeling, \V est Virginia, enjoyed
outings to Oglebay Park through the cooperation
of the park authorities and the City Recreation
Bureau. At 10:00 o’clock each morning, for five
days a week for ten weeks, a bus left the city
playgrounds carrying its load of forty children
twelve miles away to the 750 acres of nature’s
varied beauty that is Oglebay Park. Here the
children stayed until 3:45 under the leadership
of two members of the city playground staff.
After a welcome and an opening ceremony the
children scattered to various activities—baseball,
volley ball, folk dancing, group games or a nature
hike, followed by a period of less active games.
Then came lunch which each child brought, sup—
plemented by milk provided by the Oglebay Insti-
tute Committee which raises the money for the
bus. After lunch and a rest the children waded in
the brook, rode ponies, hunted treasures, played
hare and hounds, toasted marshmallows, or en-
joyed some other special event. The day ended
around the camp fire with stories, stunts and
nature games. Children from seven to ten years
of age came one week and those from eleven to

fourteen the next.

For two days each week
a group of mothers with
children under six were

weather the boys went on

nature hikes, enjoyed camp Swnmmlng holds an Important place on the

summer program,and trips to nearbybeaches
and swimming pools should be encouraged.

‘t

 

Courtesy Girl Scouts, I nc.

128 ll’llEN YOU PLAN YOUR SUMMER PROGRAM

There are many grown-ups who still
thrill ot the word "circus." What
wonder, then, that children are so
happy at the prospect of a circus
of their own on the playground!

given a day's vacation at the park
with transportation and lunch
furnished. A total of 639 math-
ers from families referred by re-
lief agencies enjoyed a day of
rest or of outdoor activities as
they eltose.

For $2.50. which covered the
cost of provisions, boys and girls
at Columbus enjoyed a five day
vacation at the camp maintained
by the Division of Public Recrea-
tion at a location on the river
about twelve miles out of the city. The camp ac-
commodated about 80 boys and girls. Equipment
consists of six cabins, a swimming pool, a council
ring, and a building containing a kitchen and
dining room.

Community Nights for Young and Old

During the depression community nights have
come to mean much to the adults who have had
little money to spend for recreation.

For six years the Recreation Department of
Austin, Texas, has conducted community nights
on the playground. During these years interest
has grown and participation increased. The query
now is. “What are we going to put on for com-
munity night this week ?" instead of the former
question, "What are you putting on for com-
tnunity night this week ?" At the end of the sum-
mer one eommunity continued the program once a
week, later changing to two nights a week.

Community night takes many forms. No special
program is asked of the playground leaders, but
they are urged to see to it that the eommunity
takes part in some interesting activities such as
musicals, doll shows. dancing, game nights. pic-
nics, picture shows, minstrels, square dances. ex-
hibits. and one act plays. Many unique forms of
entertainment have resulted. Community singing
is almost universally a part of the program, and
several singing clubs have been organized on the
playgrounds. Square dancing is one of most p0p-
ular activities of community night. Not only peo-

 

C'aurtuy Detroit Recreation Derertmeut

ple from the community around the playground
but residents from all parts of Austin attend. in
the beginning only the older adults knew the
steps, but so popular has this form of dancing
become that boys and girls on the playgrounds
take part in every dance.

The city government of Richmond, Indiana,
with the help of the Palladium Publishing Cor-
poration presented during the past summer a
series of recreational events which did much to
keep morale at a high level. As the first step the
city government improved the natural amphithea-
ter in Miller Park to provide a spacious field for
the playing of soft ball games under flood lights
and for entertainments featuring local talent. The
season opened with a huge minstrel show with
125 people in the cast. and with “Singing Sam.”
well known radio favorite and resident of Rich-
mond. as the leading attraction. The show was
presented four nights and a total of 50.000 people
were entertained free of charge.

During the remainder of the season soft ball
games were played and stage entertainments given
twice and sometimes three times a week. People
in neighboring towns were extended the privilege
of using the stage facilities and a modern ampli-
ftcation system to present their own programs.
Seven such Sunday night entertainments were de-
cidedly successful, attracting thousands of the
park for each entertainment. Two barn dances
were given and an old-time orchestra, veteran
eallers and capable quadrille dancers volunteered

WHEN YOU PLAN YOUR SUMMER PROGRAM 129

their services to make this old-fashioned program
successful. For these entertainments 16,000 peo—
ple were in the ampitheater each night. On one
occasion seven young people from Vienna gave a
program. Dressed in their native costumes, they
were immensely popular with the great audience.
The cost to the city was unusually low because of
the cooperation given by the Palladium Publish-
ing Corporation in giving the services of one of
its employees, Robert R. Reid, head of the Public
Relations Department, to assist the city and the
Civic Amphitheater Commission in arranging the
program.

During the operation of the amphitheater rec-
ords of the Police Department showed that ju—
venile misdemeanors were practically non-existent.
The result for the season was that thousands with
leisure time were able to participate in the activi-
ties and to enjoy the entertainment offered by
others at no cost whatsoever.

That Closing Festival !.

The festival is still very much in evidence as a
way of climaxing the‘ season’s activity, though
the circus ranks high in popularity. Last summer
the Brooklyn Park Department held its eighteenth
annual playground festival in which 1,500 chil—
dren of thirty park playgrounds took part in a
series of twelve different dances. All the cos-
tumes were made by the children who were trans-
ported to the park by interested residents of the
neighborhood in which the playgrounds were
located.

Three thousand girls participated in the “VVish—
ing Fairy Ring,” the sixteenth annual pageant pre-
sented by the Detroit Recreatiori Department and
financed last year by the Detroit News. During
the weeks preceding the pageant these girls made
models for stage settings, crepe paper costumes,
and rehearsed their songs and dances. Because of
its reduced budget, the department depended
largely on volunteers who gave efhcient aid in
directing the dancing, handcraft and other arts
entering into the pageant.

A circus was the closing event for the children
of the Boston park playgrounds. And it was a
gala day for them, for they were transported in
.busses to and from the Common where the circus
was staged and where a supper was served circus
*style.

Very often the season’s final event is based on
the theme which has motivated the program.
“Homes of Other Lands,” was the theme on which

each of the Denver playgrounds last summer built
its program through games, story—telling and other
activities. Each playground selected a foreign
country, studied the habits and customs of its peo-
ple and depicted them in the scene which it dis-
played. Almost thirty countries were represented.

Some Practical Considerations

“How are we going to hnance the program?”
“\Vhat about facilities?” These are practical ques-
tions which must be answered if there is to be any
program. And in these days when municipal funds
are sometimes difficult to secure the problem of
finances looms large.

Securing Funds. \Vhen it became evident that
no funds would be forthcoming to support the
summer playgrounds of Springheld, Ohio, Chief
of Police Abeles called together some of his
friends in. City Hall and in the business circles of
the city and told them that the Playground Asso-

- ciation had disbanded and there would be no rec-

reation for children and young people during the
summer except a little sand lot baseball sponsored
by the American Legion. He made'an earnest
plea that something be done. At a Dutch luncheon
meeting which followed at a local hotel where the
group heard Chief Abeles’ plea, $1,500 was sub-
scribed. Later an additional $500 was pledged by
the Parent-Teacher Association, and eight play-
grounds were conducted in charge of ten leaders.

Because of the reduced appropriation for play-‘
grounds in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, it became
necesssary early last summer to announce the
closing of three playgrounds conducted by the
Playground and Recreation Commission. Im-
mediately a demand for the opening of these
grounds came from the public. The Hamilton
Olympic Club, the Chamber of Commerce and
special neighborhood committees began at once to
raise the thousand dollars required to open the
grounds. The amount was secured and turned
over to the Playground Commission. The grounds
were opened under leadership and the attendance
last summer was the largest ever recorded on
these playgrounds.

Lacking the usual appropriation from the Board
of Education, the playgrounds of Battle Creek,
Michigan, last summer were financed by a series
of weekly entertainments presented under the
auspices of a citizens’ committee. The entertain-
ments included two band concerts, two movie
shows, a water carnival, a boxing and wrestling

(Continued on page 162)

An Important Need and .Opportunity

young men and women

will be graduated from our
high schools. About 50 per
cent of them will be added to the hundreds of
thousands of young people already in our com-
munities who, without school, college or job, are
in great need of having interesting things to do
that will keep alert the priceless powers of mind
and body, the social vision, and the loves and
faiths that twelve years of school effort were
aimed to develop. Now is the time for every
leader in community recreation to attend especially
to the question of how provision can best be made
for a happy carry-over in community life of such
school activities as can be regarded as being in the
field of recreation. Of these, music is in many
places among the foremost in the number of
students participating in it and in the degree of
skill and the sc0pe of expression that have been
developed in it. Anyone who has observed the
achievements Of a good high school chorus,
orchestra, band or smaller group, in social living
and individual happiness as well as in musical
expressiveness and beauty, knows how tragically
wasteful it is to let these achievements count for
little or nothing in the life outside of schools.

THIS MONTH over 700,000

How the Recreation Leader May Help

No matter how restricted the recreation leader
may be as to funds for community musical activi-
ties or as to his or his Board's interest in music
itself, now is the time for him to do whatever he
can to help bring about the provision needed. He
of all people knows most fully the need. He has
the insight and the vision without which such
values for living are likely to perish in a com-
munity, and it is up to him to start something.
Whether he can or cannot, through his own de-
partment's funds or his own abilities, provide for
one or more choruses, orchestras, bands or
smaller groups well suited to the graduates, he
can help in such ways as the following:

I. Visit the high schools with the school super-
visor of music for the purposes of finding out just
what is being done in music there and of talking

130

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

with the supervisor about what
might be done to make the most
of it in the life outside the
schools.

2. This visit with the music supervisor might
well lead to a conference with musical students
who are going to graduate, as to what opportuni-
ties for continued amateur musical activity they
would like to have after they have left school.
To make this conference really effective, a list
should be at hand of the choirs, choruses, glee
clubs, orchestras, bands and smaller groups that
already exist in the churches, recreation centers,
clubs, and in the community at large, with infor-
mation as to the activities of each one, when and
where it meets, and what. if any, special skills,
fees or other conditions are required for entrance
into it. The students might be invited to attend a
rehearsal or concert of each group open to them
as graudates, for their enjoyment and further in-
formation. Perhaps there is now no group suited
to them, either as to age or as to musical stand-
ards. For graduates of many a modern high school
musical organization the typical choral or instru-
mental group of middle-aged folk would be to
them as a fumbling baseball team would be to a
well-trained player or as ping pong would be to a
lad who knows the keen fun of very good tennis.
New musical organizations may be needed in the
community, and the recreation leader can be a
strong influence bward starting them, even if he
has no knowledge of music and no money to be
spent on music.

3. Such a conference as has just been described
might well be held with former graduates of the
schools, with or without the coming graduates.

4. Bring about a meeting of music leaders and
other persons whose influence might count in fit-
ting the community for survival of the musical
interests and skills developed in the schools the
various social agencies, the churches and the par-
ent teacher associations or other groups of home-
makers, as well as the school and community
musical organizations, should, if feasible, be rep-
resented at the meeting. The fine possibilities and

(Continued on page 163)

I

That Ever Present Problem—Leadership!

A L A M A z 0 0,
Michigan, is one
of the c i t i e s
which last summer
successfully met the
problem of play lead-
ership through th e

use of volunteers. It
became apparent during the winter that the bud-
get of the Recreation Department would be se-
verely cut. It was announced that instead of a
paid trained and responsible staff consisting of a
man and a woman at each playground, only one
director would be possible. In view of the fact
that there would be more children spending the
summer in the city than ever before this situation
presented a real problem.

An interested school principal and an active
Parent Teacher Association made plans well in
advance to meet the emergency. The situation

was considered at a meeting of the Child Study,

group in March and later by the executive com-
mittee of the Parent Teacher Association. The
May meeting of the association took the form of
a panel discussion of a possible recreation pro-
gram for the district. The members of the panel
were the city superintendent of recreation, the
supervisor of physical education of the schools,
the visiting teacher, the president of the Parent
Teacher Council, the principal of the school, a
minister in the neighborhood, a parent and a
student. The meeting adopted the plan. outlined
and authorized a committee to complete details
and put it in operation. Further plans involved the
sending of questionnaires to each of the associa—
tions regarding summer activities, a study by high
school boys of available vacant lots and play
spaces in the district, and the circularizing of for-
mer students who had been leaders in their school
activities and who were home or at college as to
their availability for volunteer
service. A study was made of
the plans and resources of
other community recreation
organizations. The result of
the summer’s work was a

 

greatly increased
number of construc-

tive recreation activi-
ties in the district of
the Washington
Junior School play-
ground, selected be-
cause in the past it
had drawn such large numbers of children from
the immediate neighborhood. Activities included
a day camp for girls once a week under Girl Scout
leadership, a hiking club for boys, kodak clubs,
nature study and dramatic clubs, first aid and sew-
ing classes. Many of these activities were held at
homes, but the enrollment was at the playground
and all groups for hikes or camping met at the
grounds. Twice a week the children from nine to
fourteen had an hour of story-telling, rhythms
and songs in the basement room at a branch
library. Three churches in the neighborhood con-
ducted morning sessions of Vacation Bible
Schools. On four lots the department placed
croquet sets for which a nearby resident guaran-
teed care and which were open for the use of the
neighbors. Volunteers helped the playground
director in many of the regular activities on the
grounds and the whole movement has resulted in
greater attendance, more widespread activities,
and more general appreciation of recreation values
than ever before.

About twenty volunteers gave regular service
averaging two two-hour periods a week. Many
more helped from time to time. A Parent Teacher
Association committee, acting in close touch with
the playground director, took full responsbility.
The chairman of the committee was a principal of
the school teaching staff. She assigned the volUn-
teers who reported to her. Substitutes were fur-
nished if a regular volunteer was unable to attend.
The chairman made reports to the playground

Do you have the problem aF providing for playground
leadership on reduced funds? This article will tell
you how some cities met the situation last summer.

131

132 THAT EVER PRESENT PROBLEM—LEADERSHIP!

director and did the necessary joint planning. The
plan has brought into use material resources as
well as volunteer leadership that would never have
been discovered by the Recreation Department
working alone and that has helped this district
meet an emergency most successfully.

Other Cities Report Success

Last summer, as in the summer of 1932, New
Bedford. Massachusetts, conducted its play-
grounds chiefly under the leadership of volunteers
supervised by two experienced paid workers. Nine
centers were in operation, one more than in 1932.
An average of 3,000 children and young people
ranging in age from one to twenty years attended
each day, and more than 250 men and women
served as volunteer leaders. A fund of between
$900 and $t,000 was raised to finance the work.
Where in 1932 many of the volunteers served only
two and a half days a week, last year they worked

five. Many worked through the entire season'

missing scarcely a day. Nine of the leaders were
mothers, others were college and normal school
students and teachers home for the sununer, high
school groups and a number of employed people
who gave their leisure hours. ‘Chief of Police
McLeod was one of the most ardent supporters
of the playgrounds. He did much to secure con-
tributions to the fund collected through the Stand-
ard-Times and .llerrury. Many individuals and
organizations cooperated in 'making the play-
ground season a very successful one. -

Each of the five members of the Chicopee
( Massachusetts) Park and Recreation Commis-
sion took active charge in a supervisory capacity
of a district and assumed responsibility for the
summer's activities. There was one paid worker
on each playground with several college men serv-
ing as volunteers. The season was most success-
ful with nine playgrounds open all summer and
two smaller ones for little children established.

Last summer the Board of Education of Buf-
falo, New York, maintained thirty-four play-
grounds. The staff consisted of one director, the
head of the Department of Physical Education,
four supervisors each of whom was responsible
for eight playgrounds and the swimming pools in
a particular section of the city, a handcraft super-
visor, and a supply manager. In atldition, sixty-
eight playground directors. thirty-five men and
thirty-three women, were selected from the
“white collar" group of unemployed. These di-
rectors were assigned to the Board of Education
by the State Education Department and a three

day institute was held. The State Board of Edu-
cation also supplied thirty-five workers known as
“playground watchmen" one of whom was placed
on each playground. Their duties consisted of
protecting the school property from damage, keep-
ing the playground free from rubbish, resurfac-
ing grounds where necessary, filling in horseshoe
pitching pits, painting playground equipment,
opening and locking the gate, and assisting the
play leader wherever possible. This service was
found to be very helpful.

\Vith the appropriation for the recreation cen-
ters conducted by the Park Commissioners of
Hartford. Connecticut, reduced about 20 per cent,
and that for “playgrounds not on park property"
decreased about 75 per cent, the Park Commis-
sioners faced a serious situation last year.
Through the cooperation of the Community
Chest which provided the department with forty
workers, and the \Velfare Department which fur-
nished thirty additional workers, it was possible
to continue the work on the playgrounds. A
special effort was made to open the usual number
of playgrounds and to continue approximately the
same activities. Every section of the city was
served by the twenty-five playgrounds in opera-
tion. At the larger playgrounds a program was
offered for adults and in some instances groups
were organized which continued their activities
throughout the year.

In spite of the most careful planning the Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania, RecreatiOn and Playground
Association could do, its curtailed budget could
be made to cover only a six 'weeks full-time pro-
gram. Realizing that a volunteer staff alone could
not handle the situation, the association sent a
letter to all applicants for positions asking if they
would give back the equivalent of one week a
month during the summer season. The accept-
ance of this plan was so generous that the entire
staff for the season virtually became part-time
volunteers giving one week free service .each
month, thus allowing the playgrounds to operate
eight weeks on a six weeks' budget. This meant
in effect the cutting of salaries by 25 per cent. It
made no appreciable (lifference in the type of
service rendered, but from the standpoint of the
community it was understood that the entire staff
including the supervisory force voluntarily gave
two weeks of their time in order that the city
playgrounds might operate for at least two
tnonths.

(Continued on Mg: 163)

Our Children’s Vacation—

Shall It Be Camping?

How camping helps lo make leisure
time more interesting to children.

By CHARLES W. CARSON

MILLION boys and girls will attend organized

A camps this summer in the United States and

Canada. The figure sounds large until we

take into account the millions who will not go. If

camping is good for a million boys and girls, why
not for a much larger number?

One reason is obvious. Thousands of people
who would like to send their children to camp
cannot afford the fees. Another reason is that
many parents have not been convinced that there
are unique values for their children in a camping
experience. Any camp director or connselor who
has called on parents in order to interest them in
camp has heard such responses as these: “Oh, we
have a cottage at the lake, John doesn’t need to
go to camp. He has all the advantages without
the added expense.” Or, “we’re taking an auto-
mobile trip for our vacation and Tom is going
with us.”

In justice to their children every parent of boys
or girls between the ages of nine and seventeen
should investigate camps. Circumstances may not
permit attendance, but to investigate is an obliga-
tion. If you areia parent, and have an open mind,
here is some evidence.

Advantages of Camping

Camp offers to both parents and children a va—
cation away from one another. Constant contact
in the home leads to easy irritation and capricious
dispositions. A two months’ respite restores per-
spective and creates a home atmosphere conducive
to calm judgment and intelligent affection. Fur-
thermore, if it be true that achieving independ-
ence of the home is one of the two major adjust-

This year organized camping
will celebrate its fiftieth anni-
versary. The municipal recrea-
tion movement with its growing
participation in camping and in-
creasing appreciation of its
values, will join with private

groups in wishing for the camp-
, ing movement continued success
and even greater usefulness. The
article presented here was pre-
pared by the director of Camp
Lawrcnce Cory, the boys’ camp

of the Rochestcr Y. M. C. A.

 

ments of adolescence, a few weeks at camp pro—
vides an excellent beginning. Here, under the
guidance of trained counselors, boys and girls
learn to face a new environment and to make ad-
justments which otherwise may be postponed until
college days.

Parents must recognize, however, that they play
a large part in the success or failure of a camp-
ing experience. Limiting the number of visitors’
days is not merely a convenience to the camp
staff; it is an essential factor in the camper’s ad-
justment. Homesick campers are usually less a
problem than child-sick parents. \Vhen parents
play their part intelligently, camp offers boys and
girls the opportunity, perhaps for the first time,
to stand on their own feet.

A second advantage of camping is the unusual
opportunity to learn the arts of leisure. Few
places are as well equipped as a good camp. to fa-
cilitate the learning of ways to make leisure time
interesting and a source of real pleasure, and this
is a matter of discovering interests and develop-
ing skills. For children with a limited background
of experience, discovering interests is a process
of experimentation. They need to be. exposed to
a wide variety of choices and to be guided in
selection. Camp programs of two decades ago
were generally planned in advance and highly
regimented. In the swing away from a regimented
program some camps have gone to an opposite
extreme which results only in confusion. Excel-
lence is not measured by the length of the list of
possible activities, but by the method with which
the activity is developed.

133

154 OUR CHILDREN’S IJ'.'1CATION——SH.4LL IT BE CAMPING?

Uur present purpose, however, is not to discuss
methods, but to point out values. For example, a
boy in camp was attracted by the “\tht Is It 3""
contest and found his way to the nature study
cabin. Although he came to identify a leaf, his
curiosity was aroused by an aquarium filled with
all manner of wiggling things. An alert counselor
asked if he would like to look at a specimen of the
aquarium water under a microscope. From that
day on this camper spent a large share of his time
at the nature study cabin. Before leaving camp
he had persuaded his parents to buy him a micro-
scope and had constructed his own aquarium. A
new world was opened to him.

Discovering Interests

One evening a group of campers sat on the
shore just after sunset watching the changing
lights on the hills across the lake. As the light
faded a star began to twinkle in the western sky.
A lively curiosity prompted a camper to ask the
name of the star. After waiting for several guesses
a counsellor identified the star and then began to
ask questions about the stars. The result was a
group of star gazers who were given permission
to explore the heavens on clear nights after
limpsol’

Stimulated only by the vague desire “to make
something," a boy wandered into the handicraft
building. In the printing shpp he saw some boys
digging gauges out of pieces of linoleuin with
small curved tools. "Would you like to try it 3'"
asked the instructor. After a few trials the boy

 

began work on a linoleum block for the camp
paper. Later he did a Christmas card and a book
plate. Before he left camp he had learned how to
construct a hand press which would make it pos-
sible to continue his new interest at home. It is
quite possible to learn how to use a microscope,
to identify stars, and to make linoleum block
prints at home or in school. The unique advantage
of the camp environment is the unusual oppor-
tunity it offers to discover and develop spontan-
eous interests.

The opportunity to gain experience in working
cooperatively on group enterprises is as signifi-
cant as the development of individual interests.
To adapt ingenuity and new ideas to group needs
and a group objective is excellent training in citi-
zenship. Individual skills are essential, but most
life situations call for team play. The following
examples from a camp experience illustrate the
point:

Group Enterprises

A group of ten and eleven year old campers
were playing on the lake shore. Someone sug-
gested, “Let's play pirate.” “Aw, gee, you can’t
play pirate without a ship. “How about build-
ing one ?" \Vith excitement at a high pitch they
ran to the counselor who supervised craft work.
The counselor thought it was a good idea, and the
planning began.

The first task was to find materials, because no
funds were available to buy them. A pile of old
tent floors was discovered in which there was

T “T”

It's impossible to
play pirate without
a ship but on the
other hand there's
no reason why boys
shouldn'tmake one.
And the campers at
Lawrence Cory dis-
covered they could!

0 UR CHILDREN’S VACATION

enough lumber for the body of the ship. Sta-
bility, however, would be lacking. A bright young
pirate suggested oil drums. Six drums were
secured from an oil station in town. A sapling
was located which would do for a mast, and an
old tent fly decorated with a gruesome skull and
crossbones supplied the sail. It took five weeks
of resourceful, patient, and persistent work to
build the ship, and the launching was a great
event. Ten lusty pirates, each properly attired
with a ’kerchief around his head and a black
patch over one eye, pulled strenuously on the oars
for an hour. against a light wind (oil drums are
not built like racing yachts). Finally the sail was
hoisted and the pirate ship, steered by an old oar,
sailed to the dock.

A similar experience was the building of the
new council circle. The old council circle was in
a perfectly obvious location, a few yards in front
of the semi-circle of cabins. Across a field by the
side of a brook was a spot which was a favorite
rendezvous for campers. Bounded by the sloping
banks leading down to the brook, sheltered by
trees and bushes was a level spot about fifteen
yards across. One evening as a cabin group was
cooking their own supper over an open fire, a
camper remarked casually, “This would be a great
place for the council circle.” The idea was greeted
with enthusiasm and the next day the project was
started.

Underbrush had to be cleared and logs hauled
and fashioned for seats. The circle was outlined
with stones and a path leading to it was widened.

And this was true
too, when it came
to building a new
council ring. It
meant days of hard
work but it taught
the campers how to
plan, organize and
completea project.

 

SHALL IT BE CAMPING? 133

After days of hard work the new council circle
was ready. A fire was built in the old circle.
\Vhen it had burned to embers, coals were scooped
up and carried with due ceremony to start the first
fire in the new circle.

Building the pirate ship and constructing the
new council circle were not mere stunts. The
campers learned how to plan, organize, carry out
and evaluate a group project.

Helping Him to Make Adjustments

Closely related to experience in working on
group enterprises is learning to make the adjust—
ments to other people and to new environments
essential to happy living. Few other experiences
have the opportunities in this connection which
are found in camp. A child who spends eight
weeks in camp is there for more hours, not count-
ing the hours of sleep, than he is in school during
an entire year. Furthermore, the variety of cir-
cumstances requiring adjustment to other people
is greater than in school.-

The father of a camper said to a camp director
as he enrolled his boy, “Until I went to college at
the age of seventeen, I had never been away from
home longer than over night. For a whole year I
was utterly miserable because I didn’t know how
to get along with poeple. \Vhen my boy goes to
college I want him to be more experienced than I
was.” Unfortunately, all parents are not as far-

sighted as this father. In fact, it is frequently
the case that the child who needs camp most has
parents who do not or will not recognize the need.

 

136 OUR CHILDREN’S VACATION—SHALL IT BE CAMPING?

Consider the case of Franklin, an only child.
The following observations are from the coun-
selor’s behavior record:

“Franklin’s mother accompanied him to camp
and made his bed while he stood by. I offered to
assist, but the mother desired to do it herself.
When she had finished, she reported that the boy
was ill and should not eat anything all day except
malted milk which he was to get from the nurse
at two o’clock and six o’clock.

"During the afternoon Franklin made several
remarks of this sort, ‘I wish I was to be here only
two weeks instead of four. Camp’s all right, but
1 wish I was home. My mother takes me to the
lake every afternoon. Do we have movies at
camp? My mother takes me to the movies every
Saturday and Sunday.’ ”

.\laking adjustments to new people and new
situations was difficult for Franklin because a
doting mother had catered to his every whim and
shielded hint front many hardships. Before the
cantp period closed Franklin’s father came to take

hint home. An uncle had died and Franklin’s
ntother needed hint!

F ranklin's case illustrates the need; other cases
are better examples of success. A visiting teacher
persuaded Sam’s parents to send him to camp. He
had exhibited a variety of anti-social behavior at
school and his home situation complicated his dif-
ticulties. During his first season at camp he ran
away four times. He was negligent in performing
his camp duties and sulky when he was checked
up. Careful attention to his needs, however, re-
sulted in a fairly satisfactory experience and at
the end of the season he reported that he had en-
joyed camp. Profiting by the first year he came
to camp a second season and his relationships
with other campers were greatly improved. A
third season found him accepting his share of re-
sponsibility readily and taking his place in a tent
group without friction. Adequate records were
an important factor in Sam’s case. A summary
of his case came from the visiting teacher when
he was first enrolled. H is COlltlSL‘lOt' kept a run-
ning record of his behavior in camp which was
passed on to the visiting teacher at the end of the
season. Progress in his case is not a matter for
conjecture: the record speaks for itself.

Arthur was a shy boy who came to camp with
no skills and no confidence in himself. He could
not play baseball, he could not row a boat, he
could not swim. Some of his difficulties were
traceable to lack of opportunity; many of them

were results of his timidity. His first achieve-
ment was learning to swim. When he was gradu-
ated from the non-swimmers’ to the beginners’
class, his chin came up and his chest began to
expand. Soap carving, however, proved to be his
real forte. When his carving of an elephant was
exhibited on visitor's day, Arthur was, for one of
the first times in his life, really proud of himself.
During the early days at camp any camper could
make Arthur cringe by a harsh word or a pug-
nacious gesture. At the end of the season he
could no longer be easily intimidated. Front a po-
tential recessive personality type he developed into
a norntal, happy boy.

Learning how to become independent, learning
to make leisure time contribute to happy living,
learning how to plan and carry out group pro-
jects, and learning how to get along with people
are important factors in character education. The
leadership, equipment, and program of the sum-
mer cantp are organized to provide these oppor-
tunities.

For many years camp literature has quoted the
statement of a famous educator, “The summer
camp is America's greatest contribution to the
field of education." Vt’hen education is conceived,
not as the formalized process of acquiring infor-
ntation, but as a continuous undertaking of de-
veloping skills, attaining knowledge, and creating
attitudes, this statement assumes new significance.
It may tttrn out to have been a discerning
prophecy.

"Probably the greatest social contribution
which the cautp vacation can make to any group
of campers is an experience of successful c00pera-
tive life in a group diverse in interests, skills, abili-
ties, but all ettjoying contnton activities. The par-
ticipation of all in the affairs of a day means more
than any play given, any concert produced, any
swimming meet, any discussion group. To real-
ize that everyone has something to give and that
the best life is possible for all when every per-
son has opportunity to make his unique contribu-
tion. is to have learned a cardinal principle of the
new social order. The process, not the final per-
forntance, is the chief concern of the camp that
would lead a group into social living. The habits
and attitudes built up in such a group contribute
to the making of a ntore desirable social whole

and the camp unit itself is an organic part of that
whole."——Abbir Graham in The Girls” Camp.

Volunteer Recreation Leadership

As evaluated by a member oi
the physical education protession

season, the matter of volunteer leadership
again comes up for discussion and
evaluation. .

A year ago, with municipal budgets depleted
and many playgrounds without leadership or par-
tially closed for lack of funds, the experiment of
volunteer leadership became a common one. In
many cases, experienced teachers served without
pay rather than be idle when this important social
service was being'neglected, and,also because it
was felt advisable to carry on in this way tem—
porarily rather than to see the program lost.
While such professional loyalty is to be com-—
mended, it is a question whether municipalities
should be encouraged to shirk their duty in this
manner.

There is another type of volunteer leadership,
however, which gives promise of growing into a
permanent part of the playground and community
recreation plan of administration. It is one which
does not dispense with the regular staff of play

' WITH THE close of the summer playground

leaders but which supplements their work. It.

adds invaluable services not apt to be found in
the regular program. From this standpoint, there
is every reason to believe that there is a perma-
nent place for volunteer leadership in the special
activity phase of the summer recreation program,
for example, in music, handicraft, story telling,
nature trips, gardening, art work, and educational
trips to printing houses, telephone plants, auto—
mobile shops, etc.

Usually where the volunteer plan has been tried
it has been preceded by a number of meetings of
influential citizens who are strong backers of an
educational as well as recreational program of
summer activities. By having such a committee
or advisory council made up of such civic-minded
men and women, and from many walks of life,
excellent publicity is usually forthcoming. These
people carry weight in their respective communi-
ties and as a result of their presence, the news-

 

It will be interesting for recreation
workers to have the point of view of
some one outside the immediate rec-
rcation field on the subject of the use
of volunteers on the playgrounds. We
are therefore presenting an editorial
from the September issue of The
Journal of Health and Physical

Education.

 

papers (especially if the local editor is an in-
terested member of the committee) are very apt
to sponsor the work with enthusiasm. .

In addition to this possibility of extra interest
and enthusiasm on the part of influential com-
munity groups and the helpful backing of the
newspapers, there are other possibilities in the
volunteer plan. It gives opportunities to draw
upon other recreational facilities previously un-
available for the playground children. For ex-
ample, one of the members of the community
committee may be a college or industrial leader
who will oHer the use of a swimming pool on
limited occasions, or a wealthy citizen may open
up private tennis courts at certain hours for
playground use under playground supervision.
Again, in conjunction with the volunteer service,
short-term recreation training courses are usually
oHered. These serve an educational purpose in
enlightening the community on modern recrea-
tional needs.

The volunteer plan has additional merit in ty—
ing up the playground services with other social
service agencies of the community such as the
parent-teacher groups, service clubs, churches,
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Y. M.
C. A., Y. W. C. A., etc. Representatives from
these groups are apt to be found on the advisory
council. Leaders in these organizations have a
chance to enlarge upon the sphere of their activi-
ties. The playground director is the coordinating
director of. this enlarged and cooperative pro-
gram. In a sense this program is using many
ideas from Scouting and “Y” work but in an en-
larged way and with children that might other-
wise not be reached.

(Continued on. page 164)
137

Seeing Nature
in

Glacier National
“Park '

By
CARROLL LANE FENTON

We ofier you the rewards
.of lthe hiker who travels
along the trail on foot.

EVENTY or eighty people sit
about a crackling campfire.

Two of their number sing a
duet whose. verses hold more joy
than sense; a third recites the
woes of a hwerlish settler and his:
broneho team. A man in olive:
green uniform speaks on wild
flowers and trees, and leads the
entire groups in favorite glee
‘luh songs. (losing. he imites
them to hike:

"Tomorrow we'll go to Dawson Pass a round
trip of fourteen miles. (’n the trail will he forests
of lrulgepole and iir, a pretty lake among mo-
raine and a glarier almost tm small to be true.
Higher, we’ll nnd stunted alpine plants, while the
Pass itself will show fossil l)ed:'~' formed in a very
ancrent sea. Therc will be magnificent views, too;
things to thrill you photographers and others who
like tn draw. “'e'll start from the bridge at a
quarter on eight; eeme antI don't forget your
mum“ '

"his i~ a typu a:

 

themselves, urges the timid to ride and walk.
Without teaching he tells them the story of nature.
adding to the store of knowledge with which they
\iew beautiful scenes. ln spare moments, he
helps pitch tents, offers hints on where to fish, or
tell.. where herds of elk may he found by hikers
who go quietly.

The region seeunds his varied efforts. Though
less fatnous than the Yellowstone. Glacier Na-
tional I‘ark peculiarly appeals to those who like
to live out of doors, and
to temper enjoyment

Dr. Fenlon is a research worker. leelnrer and
writer who for eighteen years has hunted for
extinct animals and lost landscapes. To him
hiking and camping are. never ending delights.

with learning. Its trails

are goal and rarely
steep; unobtrusive roads

{Hull‘th program led
rm .1 ranger naturalist
tle h'lp tisnors cnioy

L'-K

SEEING NATURE IN GLACIER NATIONAL PARK 139

and boats care for those who can neither walk nor
ride. It offers much in three or four days—and it
welcomes those who will stay for weeks, or the
entire summer. Hotels and simpler cabins wait,
while for those to whom vacation means life in a
tent there are well equipped motor camps in
which real crowds are unknown. Though not the
unspoiled, primitive wild, they are never the com-
pact, dusty blocks found in more populous na-
tional parks.

: Books and essays have been based on the pleas—
ures of riding through Glacier Park: something
also should be said of the ease and even greater
rewards of hiking. For whatever the timid or
hasty may say, one may “do” every major horse
trail on foot ivithout incurring discomfort or
danger—Hand he will see and learn more by the
way than can those who only ride.

Let us take the item of comfort first. There are
three large hotels in the Park and eight cabin
groups or chalets. All welcome hikers, who also
may stay overnight at the four more remote tent
camps maintained chiefly for saddle horse parties.
A total, then, of fifteen shelters for those who go
on foot, with several others
available to those who fol-
low the trails into Alberta.
Eight to eighteen miles
apart, they demand only
easy trips, often with time
left to detour on peaks or
to fish in clear, snow—fed
lakes. One need carry only
camera, spare clothing and
slicker, since camps provide
bed, shelter and food.

Safety is a matter of
course. Most trails are well
graded and wide: the
“greenest” tyro, keeping to
them, need not fear acci-
dent or over-exercise. This
latter point calls for em-
phasis, since it means that
children and those of poor
physique may take trail
trips on foot with confi-
dence. I have seen a twelve-
year-old city boy walk to
the crest of Dawson Pass,
while youngsters of four or
live will be happy on many
a lakeside trail. As for

 

A tent shall be our home. We pitch
it for a day, a week, a season. It
shelters us from sun, rain or snow.

some of the so-called strenuous climbs: a portly
tourist with asthma, a weak heart and poor
arches walked from Many Glaciers to Piegan
Pass and back one day and still had time to loiter
in woods where birds and whortleberries were
abundant. Nor did she take dinner in bed—as
some are said to do who ride!

Freedom, beauty and knowledge are the re-
wards of those who travel the trails on foot. A
horse at best is a callous beast that is trained to
walk, trot or stop in line, not to humor its rider’s
desires. That line itself is a formal affair that
starts. goes and halts as one, lest its body degen—
erate into chaos. In it, one may not loiter or dis-
mount at will; nor may he force the whole party
to wait while he alone admires some mountain.
Yet unless these liberties are enjoyed, the trip may
yield small enjoyment and knowledge. Subjecting
one’s objects to the routine of groups is not a
broad pathway to recreation.

Compare, then, the freedom of those who de-
pend upon their own hobnailed boots. They may
pause a minute, an hour or a week and still cause
no one else discomfort. Their schedule lies bet-
tween themselves and time;
they start of their own ac-
cord in the morning and ar—
rive when they are ready at
night. Nor do they waste
morning hours while guides
hunt horses lost during the
night:

I ate my dozen flapjacks and
was feeling fine,

But the horses may not show
up until half-past nine;

The guide rode out to find
them, but they must have
flown— .

So I sit here at the corral, for-
saken and lone.

So hummed one “dude”
who had been promised an
early sight of mountain
sheep on the Continental
Divide. His companions
were less cheerful, for they
already had waited an hour.
If those infernal horses
only would come!

Hikers, meanwhile, were
on the trail. They saw
mountain sheep and goats;
watched a pica spread its

140 SEEING NATURE IN GLACIER NATIONAL PARK

r.—

Paths and peaks of the
Rockies are the scenes in
which the Indian hunter
Ah-ka-noosta sought and
found the secret of youth.
\Ve visit them that we may
recapture, not our own
youth but that of the earth
itself. Come with us
through flower-filled val-
leys. a c ro s s wind-swept
passes, tip the trails worn
hy the mountain goat,
w he re inquisitive deer
pause in the pathway-—
trails that lead into the
past. to the days when our

 

 

hay out ‘to dry on a sunny slab of dark green
shale. In that shale were crumpled, pinkish balls
that seemed to be primitive fossil plants, and the
geologically-minded paused to discuss their age
and habits of life. Others climbed to a chilly,
windswept slope where tiny alpine willows grew,
their catkins six inches from the ground. Our
rock-hunter hammered at beds on a cliff, in which
large gray fossils lay; the other trained his camera
for the view that led to the western mountains of
the Park. Shadows in the foreground were too
strong. and while waiting for the light to change
he sketched a nearby alpine fir clinging to a pre-
cipitous wall. The whole day was his to use—and
with only eighteen miles to go, why should he
hurry and so spoil a film?

liven greater leisure comes to those who camp
for a fortnight, a month, or even the whole short
mountain summer. .\lost of them come by motor
car, though those who prefer travel by train may
rely on buses to carry their goods from one pub-
lic camp to another. They themselves may ride
with their bedding and tents, or may hike from
one chalet to the next while their dufile is held
until they arrive.

Campers receive chief benefit from the ranger
naturalist service. Seventeen people took the trail
on that morning hike to Dawson Pass, of whom
a few came from the chalets. Two were small
children whose parents turned back after two
miles beside the lake. One was a boy of twelve
who walked the seven miles to the pass and was
ready for another trip on the morrow, six were
girls of high school age, and the others were

ancient earth was young.

 

Freedom,beautyand knowledge reward
those who travel the trails on foot.

young to middle-aged adults. Neither athletes nor
mountaineers, they climbed twenty-four hundred
feet and returned, yet were ready for a camp-
fire that evening.

What did they gain from this typical trip?
First, good exercise and fresh air, in moderation
to fit their needs. Second, a series of beautiful
views of lakes, mountains, glaciers and trees, seen
twice and with time enough for enjoyment.
Third, an acquaintance with Flowers, trees and
birds by the way; with rocks, fossils and the ac-
tion of glaciers that deepened these valleys and
cut steep cliffs. Not a detailed acquaintance, I
grant; the naturalist stressed principles that might
stay, not minor facts too easily forgotten. But as
far as two critical scientists could find, he ap-
pealed with almost equal success to children,
school girls and middle-aged parents.

The naturalists thus are important links in a
national park’s recreation program. At the least
(some are uninspired men) they give information
not to he found in compact official booklets; at
most, they become hosts, advisors, guides, teach-
ers and pleasant companions upon the trail.

Yet nature resources of a national park cannot
be exhausted by naturalists' pr0grams. Many
visitors (chiefly those who hike) work out pro-
grams of their own, becoming amateurs in science
as they follow valley and mountain trails. Some
parents adopt similar methods: partly for their
own pleasure and knowledge, partly that their
children may gain full rewards from summers

(Continued on page 164)

Like Spring-:—lt’s in the Air!

More about hobbies—that Fascinating
pursuit sure to lead you far afield!

By ERNA D. BUNKE

National Recreation Association

" v HEAVENS, I love you! I care not who
knows it!”
This is not the beginning of an old-
fashioned proposal !

“Two A. M. in an almost empty subway. Torn
newspapers blowing across the floor. A girl sleep-
ing with her head on her companion’s shoulder;
the sleeper with her mouth open, the other at-
tempting wearily to close it.”

This is not the opening paragraph of a current
story!

“Please hold this letter in your hands a moment
and give it a warm welcome, for it comes many
miles to say, ‘How do you do, Mr. Brown’.”

This is not the note which a persistent reporter
found under the rug!

All three are interesting illustrations of a word
that has always stirred imaginative people, and
that, more recently, has swept the country with
its amazing potentialities. That word is hobbies.

The first illustration brings a valentine of long
ago—

“By heavens I love youl I care not who knows it!

I cannot disguise it. Each act of mine shows it.

Be as kind, my dear Nan, and let the world see

That you don’t care who knows how fond you’re of me.”

This is from one of the many valentines owned
by Mr. Frank Baer of Cleveland, who has been
collecting valentines for more than 35 years and
has what he believes to be the finest collection in
the country. Mr. Baer is interested chiefly in col—~

lecting early valentines and has found this a stim- ‘

ulating and amusing hobby. Another from his
collection expresses a sentiment which might be

voiced even in these times,

“I love you and I love you not
And there a paradox you’ve got.
I love your person, not your mind
For there much ignorance I find.
Learn wisdom and I may incline
To take you for my valentine.”

'4: 0

“Have not the wise men of all
ages—not excepting Solomon
H himself ———-have they not had
their hobby horses and running

horses, their coins and cockle
shells, their drums and their
trumpets, their fiddles, their
pallets and maggots, and their
butterflieS?” -— Tristam Shandy.

 

The statement beginning, “Two A. M. in an
almost empty subway,” is taken from the note
book of a girl whose hobby is seeking purple
patches in New York—an intriguing subject! She
watches ships come in, sings with the Commun-
ists, visits fish peddlers, rides horseback in Central
Park, feeds the squirrels at the Battery, goes to
lectures at Town Hall and Union Square and be—
cause she is intensely alive and has a fine sense of
appreciation of little things, she is accumulating a
bushel basket full of adventures.

“But why,” this young lady wants to know,
“does the world feel that it is a very noble gesture
to rise at 4 :30 to watch a sunrise, and a demoraliz—
ing one to stay Up until 4:30 to watch that same
streak of silver and gold in the sky ?”

The third illustration deals with the hobby of a
girl who likes to write letters—letters which she
attempts to make so interesting and unusual that
the recipient will not only answer immediately,
but will answer in a similar', responsive vein. She
writes to her friends who are ill or away, doing
her own amateurish but decidedly clever illustra-
tions. Her business letters are original enough to
receive more than casual consideration. Recently
she saved soap coupons and acquired, eventually,
six silver tea spoons. She wrote a “thank you”
letter and the astonished firm sent her some soup
spoons to go with her set.

Hobbies Come Into Their Own
The subject of hobbies is one which is deserv-
edly coming into its own. Every magazine, news-
paper and radio broadcast shouts the slogan,
“Have a hobby.” Lecturers, regardless of their

141

14.2 LIKE .S'PRle'o—IT’S IN THE AIR .'

designated subject, wander into this alluring field.
The president's wife and the shoemaker’s daugh-
ter are equally interested.

There is a difi'erence of opinion as to the mean-
ing of the word hobby. Some think of it as any
occupation participated in when free to make a
choice. Others, and this is undoubtedly the more
accurate meaning, think of it as an activity with a
somewhat permanent interest. Tennis may be
merely a recreational activity or it may be a
hobby, depending upon the time and interest given.

“Have you ever gone into raptures over shav-
ing mugs, or sighed in despair over old cigar
bands ?" asks one ardent collector. “That's hav-
ing a hobby."

“If you are just a bit cra2y about some special
interest—then you have a hobby,” adds another
collector.

"Yes, and a bit intolerant of the other fellow's
interest,” says his friend, who is a pinochle en-
thusiast. “N ow I wouldn't give you two cents for
all the bridge games in the world.”

Whatever it’s definition, having an extravagant
interest in almost anything is very pleasant and
men and women are finding gold mines in the in-
telligent pursuit of a worthwhile interest. A hobby
is a most useful adjunct of life, and one that often
helps to preserve life itself. It can bring a growth

of knowledge and
pu we r , a sense of
growing w i th the
times, a constant as-
sociation with inter-
esting subjects.
There- are m an y
[.nuple wlir have no
h u b b y and who
frankly confess they
{in not w an: one
There are other: who
~et m tn lack. the mo
ti?" that lit-1 l‘Ilt'k 0f
the nerrssar; effort
1 tart a. hobby
" he sa‘, nut V T)
“itIIt-h"l}‘ "ll l

However grove the ills
of ,the depression, it
has given many people

Opportunity todevelop
skill in their hobbies.

had more time"——or "Some day I am going to"—
then they go back to smug conversations and ef-
fortless recreation. But an amazing number of
people do have hobbies, and are finding life a
much richer gift.

Dr. George Pratt, a noted psychiatrist, takes a
psychological look and gives a warning. “People,”
he says, “too often ride hobbies because a normal
outlet in their lives has been frustrated, a well
directed diversion which the individual recog-
nizes as such is an excellent means of preserving
mental health, but there is a danger of becoming
fanatical about it.”

This is unfortunately true. Hobbies are de-
veloped sometimes only because the pressure of
life becomes unbearable and something must be
taken up that will demand whole hearted interest.
Under such conditions hobbies are apt to become
too absorbing and an abnormal situation is created.

But more often people do not take up hobbies,
but are themselves taken up by hobbies. To il-
lustrate this a girl writes, “I have an uncle who is
a doctor, and it is a quaint conceit of his to re-
mark laughingly, ‘I am not a doctor, I am a
farmer.’ Surely a doctor’s life is one spent in a
harness of utmost rigor and compulsion and yet
my uncle has never found the pressure unbear-
able, and has felt no need for release. Then, why

 

““ F “'3‘”: 1 Pure! 75‘4": A.t:""-!"‘n

LIKE SPRINGuIT’S IN THE AIR ! 143

must he have a garden wherever he is? For the
pure delight of growing things. Every one of
father’s family must grow something and when
they get together it is like a meeting of the Horti-
cultural Society in full swing. I believe when we
were babies, and they came to see my father and
mother, they did not ask first, ‘How are the chil-
dred ?’ but ‘How are the dahlias doing?’ ”

There is a saying that “Hobby horses cost more
than drab steeds,” but one of the best features of
a hobby is that it may be expensive or may cost
nothing. There are four definite types of hobbies
—doing things, learning things, creating things,
acquiring things, and frequently there is a general
overlapping.

The Four Types of Hobbies

The first deals largely with the world of sport
and game—fishing, hiking, horse racing, archery,
swimming, camping, tennis and the like. Not only
active, intensive participation in these activities is
demanded if they are hobbies, but also an intelli—
gent study of the history, technique, leaders of
each sport.

The second type of hobby—learning things—-
falls distinctly in the educational realm, for stu-
dents, philosophers, thinkers. A study of criminal
psychology, international amity, the Chinese lan-
guage, astronomy——these are intellectual hobbies.
The art of conversation is receiving some serious
consideration these days. In many groups, talk
seldom soars above the boundaries of stocks,
sport, bridge, women, clothes. One girl said, “I’d
hate to have a husband who would always turn
first to the sporting page.” An unemployed man
whose hobby is the study of ancient languages
says, “Despite our hurts, we still have the dignity
of the mental world.”

The third type of hobby, creating things, is per-
haps the most satisfying, for it brings an oppor-
tunity to appease that vague inner craving to do
something inimitably one’s own—to be able to
say, “I made this.”

All the fine arts come under this heading-—
modeling, wood carving, sculpturing, painting,
etching, and some lesser arts; spinning, weaving,
knitting, sewing; Classes in appreciation of art
are flooded. Art museums everywhere these days
are making every effort to assist the layman to-
ward increased enjoyment of art through enlarged
understanding. “Today I learned something,” a
young woman confided. “I had always thought
that an artist tries to reproduce an exact scene. It

seems that is not so. He tries to reproduce a sUn-
set by'expressing the mood induced in him by the
sunset, melancholy, joyous, exultant or any of
another dozen responses.”

Gardening is a creative hobby to which more
and more people are turning, as something that
sweeps away the cobwebs of every day monotony.
Dr. William Manson of Granville, N. Y., broad-
cast, “Take one hoe, one rake, and apply vigor-
ously to the soil at least three times a week.”

A stenographer has a small window box which
she watches anxiously for the first sign of some-
thing green; and in California, Mrs. Herbert
Evans designed a garden so lovely it attracted na-
tional attention. There is lively gaiety in some
spots and quiet peace in others. Mrs. Evans once
dreamed of a blue hillside and so had planted iris,
blue Mexican daisies, mountain lilac, violets, and
other blue flowers. For two days each year, the
garden is open to anyone who wishes to see it,
from dawn until dark. She gives each guest a
poem. One year it was Lyman’s “Come into the
garden, friend, for we adore it and wish to share
its treasures with thee.”

The fourth type of hobby, collecting things,
seems to be the most general, and of course means
much more to the individual than the mere acqui-
sition of some material objects. One can scarcer
collect anything without adding to the store of
general knowledge.

Early in I700, Browne Willis, an Englishman
began collecting. His eccentricities were so
original as to make him famous.

In America, collecting is said to have begun
with James Lenox, who in 1847 bought a copy
of the Gutenberg Bible for $2,500.

Collecting old things has a decided fascination,
perhaps because every old thing in some degree
has a story and so sets the imagination at work.

The list of things which people -collect is in-
exhaustible; some are more unuSUal than others—
Original cartoons, penny dreadfuls, primitive airs
from the Indians, fleas, ancient drinking songs,
international dolls, inanimate things that do not
yelp or have to be fed, fireside screens, old tavern
signs, steins, sun dial verses. This last mentioned
hobby demands travel, for no verse may be copied
unless it has been seen on the sun dial. In the
Martha Washington garden at Mt. Vernon is one
which reads,

"I record none but the sunny hour.”

(Continued on page 165)

Plays For The Little Actor

. .11.. .t P -.if nine most
A children are ready to ap-
pear in formal drama.
Story dramatization and the in-
creasing use of drama as an aid to teaching in
the loner grades have interested many children
in the fascinating art uf acting by this time. It is
supposed that hitherto their little plays have been
wresentetl before the classroom or for the sole
amusement of a very limited circle of friends
their own age. Now they may venture to take
part in the assembly program, the public play-
ground performance or perhaps the community's
children's theater.

\\ hen the little players go before an adult audi-
ance, too much care cannot be given to the selec-
tion of the play. The plays suggested iii the fol-
lowing list have been tried and proved successful
through many productions. .\ number of Collec-
tinns are suggested because many of the plays for
children of this age are the
«hi irt to appear in any
other furm. Since chil-
lren like to produce a
Ila} quickly and go on to

By MABEL Foore HOBBS

National Recreation Association '

"The First May Basket" given by the children ol:

the Betsey Head Playground, Brooklyn, N. Y. $40.
A background of screens hung with strips ol:
green crepe poper made a satisfying Forest.

their next production, the di-
rector will find the collections
an economical way of keeping a
supply of plays on hand.

For children taking part in formal drama for
the first time the following suggestions are made:

The Dearest [Fish by Pauline Oak. A story-telling fes-
tival in which a large number of children may partici-
pate. National Recreation Association. (Free.)

A Pageant of Play by May Pashley Harris. Especially
adapted to playground grOUps. National Recreation As-
sociation. $.l5.

The Stolen Tarts by Mabel Foote Hobbs. Seven prin-
cipal characters and many extras. A dramatization of the
nursery rhyme in two short acts. National Recreation
Association. $.25.

('liildasa. the Health Gypsy by Erna Bunke. A large
cast may be used in this play which emphasizes the need
of sleep, fresh air and proper diet. National Recreation
Association. $.10.

Eleven Plays for Little Children by Edith Lombard
Squires. Short plays in verse. Very simple and fun to
give on a summer afternoon.
Playhouse Plays. Fitzgerald
Publishing Corp, New York.

Everyday Plays for Home,
o'clmol and Settlcim'nt by

 

In

PLAYS FOR THE LITTLE ACTOR 145

Virginia Olcott. Four of the six plays in this collection
are especially recommended—"Flowers in the Palace
Garden,” “The Ruler of the Forest,” “The Troll of the

Mountains” and “Little People of Autumn..” Dodd,_-
Mead & Company, New York. $2.00. Other excellent

collections by the same author are Potriotic'Ploys for
Young People and Holiday Ploys for Young People.

Plays for the Children’s Hour by Carolyn Sherwin
Bailey. Twenty tested plays, especially adapted to school
room presentation, and several helpful chapters on pro-
duction. Milton Bradley Co., Springfield, Mass. $1.75.

Little Lost Aster by Virginia Olcott. About 20 char-
acter. A flower child who wanders away from her gar-
den and forgets her name and home is rescued by the

Bumble Bee Police. National Safety Council, New
York. $.25.

The plays in the following list are suitable for
children who have had some previous experience
with formal drama:

Silver Bells and Cockle Shells by Marion Holbrook.
Eight principal characters and many extras. The story
of Mistress Mary’s garden in verse with songs and
dances introduced. An attractive outdoor play. National
Recreation Association. $.25. ’

Eight Little Ploys *by Rose Fyleman. Gay, sedate,
humorous or serious, these little plays are charming re-
flections of the moods of childhood. Doubleday, Doran,
New York. $1.25.

Let’s Pretend by Lindsey Barbee. Six well-written
plays with enough substance to attract the practical as
well, as the imaginative child. T'. S. Denison & Co.
Chicago. $1.25.

Little Plays by Lena Dalkeith. Robin Hood, Sir Gar—
eth, Topsy and others from history and literature pro-
vide characters for five well—constructed plays. Drama
Book Shop. New York. $1.00.

The Crystal Slipper by Marion Holbrook. Seven char-
acters and many extras. Another glimpse of Cinderella
and the famous slipper. Children never tire of this sub-
ject. National Recrcation Association. $.25.

Citizenship Plays by Eleanore Hubbard. A wide selec-
tion of scenes that make the dcvelopment of the country
vivid and exciting. Benjamin H. Sanborn & Co., New
York. $1.00.

A Child’s Boole of Holidoy Plays by Frances Gillespy
W'ickes. A rich source of drama material for the days
children delight in celebrating. Macmillan Co., New
York. $.80.

Horper’s Book of Little Plays “The Frog Fairy” is
especially recommended. The other five plays represent
an interesting variety of authors and subjects. Harpers
& Brothers. New York. $1.25.

The King Who Burned the Cakes by Marion Holbrook.
Four characters. The absentminded King Alfrcd is a
perennial favorite. Again his cars are boxed by the
good wife and again the thrilling news of victory is
brought to the exile. National Recreation Association.
$.25.

One-Act Plays for Young People Edited by M. A.
Jagendorf. Thirteen plays, many of them off the beaten
track of plays for children. Delightful, amusing and
popular. Brentano’s, New York. $2.00.

A Book of Marionette Ploys by Anne Stoddard and
Tony Sarg. Children have claimed these puppet plays for
their own. Red Riding Hood, Jack and the Beanstalk,
Hansel and Gretel and Rip Van \Vinkle are always in

demand, and here are plays about them. Greenburg,
New York. $2.00.

Indoor and Outdaor Ploys for Children by John Far-
rar. These nine plays were written for children and

their parents to present informally during the summer
vacation. Noble & Noble, New York. $2.00.

Outdoor Ploys for Boys and Girls Edited 'by A. P.
Sanford. Of the twenty-six plays in this collection, ten
are for boys between nine and twelve. Washington,
Lincoln, Chief Black Hawk, Robin Hood and Rip Van

Winkle are among the characters. Dodd, Mead & Co.
$2.50.

How the Elm Tree Crew by Marion Holbrook. Four
characters and many extras. A nature play based on the
fact that some of the large elm trees now growing in
New England were brought from England as seedlings
by early settlers. National Recreation Association. $.20.

The Enchanted Gorden by Constance D’Arcy Mackay.
Ten characters and others. A June play for outdoor pro-

duction. Unusually charming and of literary value.
French, New York. $.30. Royalty $2.00.

The Treositrer Chest by Josephine Thorp. Twenty-
five characters or more as desired. A pageant-play in
which many dances are introduced. Delightful for out-

door production. Old Tower Press, Lockport, Illinois.
$.40.

A Garden Cinderella by Edith Burrows. Nine charac-
ters and extras. The flowers laugh at the little green
worm who wishes to go to the party. Then, like Cinder-

ella, the worm is the fairest guest—ea luna moth: Penn
Publishing Co., Philadelphia. $.25.

Where Foiries Foil by Mary McKittrick. Seven char-
acters and extras. The kindness of two children ac-
complishes more than fairy charms. Old Tower Press.
$.40.

Brain’s Inn by Anne Townsend. Four characters and
extras. Joe and Betty learn from the forest animals what
harm they-ha've caused by neglecting to put out their
camp fire. National Safety Council, New York. $.25.

The Lost Comping Ploce by Mary Foote. Nine char-
acters and extras. The favorite camping place of the
children is destroyed through their carelessness in leav—
ing their camp firc unguarded. Dances of fire spirits and
winds are introduced. National Safety Council. $.25.

The Crocher Compir’ocy by Anne Townsend. About
twenty characters. The Brown children learn that a safe
and sane Fourth of July has its advantages. The fire-

crackers themselves are members of the cast. National
Safety Council. $25.

Little Ploys for Little People Edited by A. P. San-
ford. A collection of plays for holidays and special
weeks observed in the schools. Dood, Mead & Co. $2.50.

Note: All the plays listed other than those issued by
the N. R. A., may be obtained from the Drama Book
Shop, 48 \Vest 52nd Street, New York.

Nature for Leisure

By SETTIE HIRSCI—I

one mm Man in these days of
Social reconstruction when more

leisure is anticipated, the individ-
ual must be referred to his inner self, that
self which, when all is said and done, is
{he only satisfying security attainable.
Fhe luss of mono) and material things
has created havoc with many of the super-
‘ir‘ial enjoyments hitherto obtained from
extraneous pleasures. MoSt of us are no
linger able to spend hard earned cash for
recreations which are all the more needed
since life has ’emme more complicated,
the means of livt-hhrmd more precarious
and leisure time greater. The NRA
through lengthening the hours of leisure
has intensifitd the problem of using nun-
working hours in a way which will make
them recreational, satisfying and eco-
nrimical.
where is one vital phase of the Use of
leisure which should be stressed. It is the
recre ttion wln 'h comers from the-study and un-
tla branding --f ,iature itself, the. nature by which
w-- are errHun- led anl “llit‘h ti" most of us is the
great unknown \"urh stre .s has been laid, and
'ightl} 21.111" n .11 use if painting and -sculpture
ts (.11. uuonal an? n---reat1unal outlets for leisUre
tinn but thr ‘ are lrnumerable people who can
never lea: t- h \ w'mse sttnst‘. of .tolor is non-
c' 3 an .n' W ‘nwut use thtir hands Suf-
L. 1.11” Ml. ' - _: var ant Illelutr-lll for the use of
It“ 'Ir-- un- 11,: Lanna 'f-‘
«tturu Ll Ir a, a 1r oats-rt in met) one. Who
not w a .1: at“ t hlluung ' bird, a tree?
‘ H "' v an \x n! .-.....' v .tlhing a riding rem-h
. tr t ~n n;' L\ hilt tL-- enj-qnmnt -f nature
 " .wlt .nl u--' t‘lc- the us:- tf nature-inv
ll. '. .1 ' ' w ml .. mnn.‘ ,ns deeper;
"I ‘ ll _ .dtllu .511 mil. (Jhu-u not in
t i . ' .v-Wm f In. but I 1 way which
't- ..  ill-IN! and um to mluamtancc
( t a. In LU!“ learning to

 

Ability to recognize trees and flowers by name
adds to enioymenl: of leisure spenl: in the open.

'.

know the names and kinds of trees we see as we
walk, their bark and leaf arrangement, to know a
flower by its habitat, where and how it grows
when wild; to recognize a bush in spring by its
blossoms, in autumn by its fruit, and to get a
thrill when suddenly coming upon a variety you
know and to experience the feeling that you have
met a friend. These are the pleasures of leisure
that can be obtained in any park or woodland, but
knowledge alone is the open sesame to these joys.

In America the inculcation of this knowledge
nas been sadly neglected, and we have not im-
bibed it, as the European has, from childhood on.
m. slight is our acquaintance with natUre that
even when walking through fields with people
brought up in the country, one may ask the com-
non name rf almost any ordinary tree, flower,
nird )1” bush and for the most part be met with
tgn IIaIICC. Surely the ability to recognize by
name would bring the joys of nature nearer, and
in time w mld lead to a closer study and an un-

NATURE FOR LEISURE ' 147

derstanding which would mean much to the in-
dividual and his leisure. Things learned are liv—
ing things!

Studying Nature in the Open

One reason for this lack in America is that our
public schools fail to take cognizance of the prac-
tical value of studying nature in the open. Who
in his travels in Europe has not seen large groups
of children with botany boxes at hand roaming
the woods in charge of teachers ready to give in-
struction in detail about what is seen? This is to
a great degree responsible for the adult Euro-
pean’s joy in his woods and the amount of time
he gives to them during his leisure hours. He is
also stimulated by his museums and universities
where curators and professors are constantly ask-
ing the public to join them in Sunday and holiday
hikes and helping to inspire and teach the indi-
vidual to appreciate the value of what he sees in
the out—of-doors the year round.

To stimulate children in their love of nature is
very simple. All children respond quickly to
plant and animal life, and childhood is the time to
inculcate a real and lasting love of nature to the
end that the child who will be the adult of the
future will develop the thrill of knowledge as part
of his joy in life.

To demonstrate how children can be directed to
the study of nature, let me tell you of a group of
youngsters whose only contact with the open had
come from a room in a school functioning in the
most congested part of the city, where a private
organization, the School Nature League, with
headquarters in the Museum of Natural His-
tory in New York, was operating in an effort to
bring nature to the school child. The room was
open to the street, and the children would come
in after school hours to browse about and learn to
know wild flowers, branches of trees, shrubs,
and even some live animals at close range. Many
of these children had never had the joy of seeing
a blade of grass grow; yet when some of them
were taken to the country for the first time they
jubilantly recOgnized and named spontaneously
the different kinds of oaks, willows, and wild
flowers, such had been the impression made upon
their young minds by their acquaintance with
nature indoors. Surely such knowledge will mean
much to the leisure hours that are gradually in-
creasing in our changing world. Things learned
from the inside are valuable because they are felt
and become a part of us; nature learned from the

inside can become a constant stimulation and
recreation.

My plea is for classes of school children to be
taken to the open and taught there to know what
they see, so that each growing thing will have _a
value of its own. I am also asking that it be made
possible, through work relief funds, for the many
college graduates who have specialized in botany
and kindred subjects and who are at the present
time unemployed, to take to the. great out—of-
doors groups of men and women, and reveal to
them the secrets of nature, thereby giving to lei-
sure hours a fuller and richer meaning.

There is no reason why we should not stimu-
late interest in nature as we do in painting, sculp—
ture or short story-writing—the more so as this
form of recreation with all its spiritual values is
easily accessible.

“There is a fundamental need for a closer in-
timacy between the child and the world of nature
than is ordinarily recognized in our educational
systems. It is true that unless one is to be a
navigator or an astronomer one has no real need
for knowledge of the stars. It is, true that we
have provided against all- except the most violent
extremes of weather. It -is true that we get most
of our flowers already cut, our beans already baked,
and that our food and fibre plants and animals
are ready to eat or wear without any need on our
part to know the conditions under which they lived
when they did live. Yet it is the absence of such
knowledge about the structure and workings of
our material world and of our organic environ-
ment that constitutes for the mass of people the
emptiness of ages into which are poured freak re-
ligions, health fads and perverted cults. The
young child who has the opportunity to learn the
stars and the weather, the birds and the bugs, the
soil and the water, through intimate contact, iden-
tifies himself with the universe in a way that
seems almost impossible for a child who has some—
how escaped such contacts. He may, perhaps, ac—
quire later as a part of formal study his knowl-
edge of the requirements of living things, of their
dependence upon air and light and water and
food, of their varied ways of responding to chang—
ing conditions, of their relations to one another
and to man, of their distinctive capacities. But
knowledge acquired at first hand through the early
years gives one a feeling for the essentials which
school processes can seldom assure.”——~Benjamin

C. Gruenberg, Child Study.

The Dawn of a New Era for Tennis

By IAN EISENHARDT

Supervisor, Playgrounds and Recreation

Board of Park Commissioners

Vancouver, B. C., Canada

N THE LAST two years tennis has increased
I greatly in popularity, and the year 1933 saw

many exciting tournaments throughout the
world and many thrilling events by players of
all nationalities, including the capture of the
Davis cup by the British team. \Vhile the
world at large has heard of these major tour-
naments at \Vimbledon and Forest Hills, many
other tournaments were played equally inter-
esting to their participants and spectators
which, however, were less well known and
were never given widespread publicity.

Vancouver, B. C., held its second public
courts tennis tournament sponsored by the Park
Board and the V ancouvcr Daily Proaince. It was
not a commercial undertaking, and there were
no entry fees, the expenses for balls and prizes
being met by the Dain Province. Just one con-
dition was made—namely, that players belong-
ing to the big clubs should not be allowed to
play in order that the tournament might be
more interesting to the average player. The
number of entries received was record break-
ing. For the seven events there were 830 reg-
istered.

\\'e had one week, Monday to Saturday. in-
clusive, in which to run off the tournament
and at first it seemed an impossible task. It
took three nights to make the draws, and a
committee of six worked from 8:00 to 12:00
P. M. and sometimes later. \Vhen at last the
draw was made it was found that twenty-three
score sheets had been used.

Park Commissioner R. Rowe Holland opened
the tournament Monday morning, July 24th, at
8:“) o‘clock. On the first and the second
days more than 600 matches were run off and

148

From all parts of the United
States eome reports of inerease
in tennis playing, of improved.
but never adequate, faeilitiee.

and of a growing list of tennis
fans. And now from Canada
eomes testimony to the great
popularity of the sport in the
public reereation program.

 

l9 courts were in constant use. At times four
additional courts situated nearby were brought
Into play.

In the “paddock,” the space near the com-
mittee tent, draw sheets and the information
desk were placed. Around this space on bench-
es sat the waiting couples. As soon as one
match was over a signal was given to the next
couple on the waiting list to go on the court.

The committee worked indefatigably to make
everything run smoothly. The chief worry was
to arrange matches among those who had
marked their blanks “only in the morning” and
those who had indicated they were free only
in the evening. Several young men placed
themselves and their cars at our disposal and
participants were sometimes called for and
brought back after the game. As soon as the
games were over on one day the results and
draw for the next day were typed out. Lacking
other lighting facilities, we were forced to use
the headlights from an automobile.

\Vhen a player arrived he checked in and sat
down near the committee room. Immediately
upon the arrival of his opponent the names
were called and the two players went on a
court if one was vacant. The winner of the
match was responsible for reporting the result
and returning the three balls used. No score
was registered before the balls had been checked
in. in this way very few of the thousand balls
used were lost.

Young and old mingled on the courts and
there were many father and son combinations
in the men’s doubles, as well as mother and

(Continued on fag: 165)

The Construction of Pedestrian Paths
Along the Highways

HE MOVEMENT for
T the construction of

paths for pedestri-
ans along highways, re-
ferred to in an article
appearing in the June
1932 issue of RECREA—
TION, has received an
impetus under the pro-
visions of the Public
\Vorks and Civil \Vorks
Administrations. This
type of project qualifies
for Federal aid from
these funds because it
meets a definite public need, provides much hand
labor and can be carried on to advantage over
large sections of the country providing emergency
relief labor for large numbers of people near
their homes. It has been pointed out that no other
type of construction so closely conforms to the
definitions of desirable projects, especially those
set down by the Civil \Vorks Administration,
than do the grading and base preparation for
highway sidewalks. In addition to providing work
for large numbers of unemployed, they create a
much needed public improvement requiring little
maintenance expense and contributing greatly to
public safety.

Several individuals interested in hiking have
expressed the opinion that to attract hikers and
to be most suitable for recreational walking, foot-
paths should have a surface resembling as nearly
as possible natural soil conditions. Highway en—
gineers and others experienced in road construc—
tion believe, on the other hand, that unless walks
are smooth and equally satisfactory for walking
as the surface of the road along which they are
constructed, pedestrians will not be likely to use
them. Since periods of inclement weather and
seasons when the ground is in poor condition for
walking are the times when pedestrians are most
likely to walk on the paved highways, it is im-

 

C aurtesy Highway Engineer and Contractor

portant that walks which
are constructed be in
condition for use at all
times.

According to the State
Highway Commission in
\Visconsin where a con-
siderable mileage of 'foot-
paths has been construct-

ed under both NRA and
the CWA programs, the
design of the paths is as

follows :

“Excavation to a depth of
5 inches is made below
grade. This' excavation is
back filled with about 3 inches of loose gravel, cinders
or other coarse material. On top of this coarser material
is placed a 2 inch layer of finer aggregate with a pro-
portion of sand, and the top surface is bound together
with tar or asphaltic oil, and the whole rolled. The sur-
face is then seal coated and a small amount of torpedo
sand applied to the seal coat. '

“These footpaths are being constructed not along the
shoulders of the road but along the fences and right of
way lines following the general contour of the ground
except where water is liable to accumulate where a fill
is made, and the footpath constructed above water level.
We have endeavored in our work to, construct a smooth
walk because we realize that unless the walks are smooth,
they will not be used, and have endeavored to make them
as cheap as possible in order to get the maximum mileage
with the funds available." '

Because of the years of experience in the con-
struction and maintenance of footpaths along the
parkways of the \Vestchester County (N. Y).
Park Commission, the opinion of Mr. Herman W.
Merkel, the General Superintendent, is of special
value:

“I do not believe that the ordinary cinder path such as
we have built through most of our parks is sufficiently
durable for use along highways. In congested areas
along our parkways or where the walks are used to cross
to railroad stations or for other purposes than occasional
pleasure hiking during good weather, we have had to
place a bituminous top on all of them. The same is also
true where there is any sIOpe on which the cinder path
would quickly wash away.

“I firmly believe that bituminous-paved walks are ideal
for the sidewalks along highways except where such
highways run through towns or villages. In these places
concrete sidewalks should be laid.

149

150 THE CO.\'S'I‘RUCTION 0F PEDESTRIAN PATHS

"The specifications for the con-
struction of these path: will vary
greatly with their location, the
character of the soil on which
they are laid and the drainage
problem, and I do not believe
that any hard or fast specifica-
tions can be established, but I
would say that for bituminous
walks, a layer of from four to
six inches of coarse or gravel
well compacted with a three-inch
top of bitumen laid by either the
pentration or the pre-rnixed pro-
cess would be sufficient in the
rural areas."

No special specifications for walks along the
highways have been prepared by the highway de-
partments in New Jersey, Louisiana, New York
or Massachusetts, although their constrUCtion is
authorized by law. In the last named state, “Foot-
paths or sidewalks have not been constructed un-
less the city or town in which the sidewalk is
located has agreed to construct a hardened sur-
face after the grading has been done. No special
type of hardened surface is required, therefore,
we have no specifications which have been used
for the purpose.”

Under the New York law, “A town may peti-
tion a county for the construction of sidewalks
along a state highway. If the county consents, it
must pay 65% of the cost and the town 35%.
The only way the State comes into it is that it
must approve the plans for the sidewalk—the
object being. of course, to see that the sidewalk
is so located that pedestrians will not be endan-
gered or that the sidewalks will not be destroyed
through future development of the road."

According to the Louisiana State Highway
Engineer, “No work of this nature had been done
by this Department prior to the Recovery Act
work and the work which is now being done is
located inside of municipalities where the re-
quirements are for a standard sidewalk."

Legislation passed in
1933 authorized town-
ships of both the first
and second class in the
State of Pennsylvania
to construct walks along
the highways. The law
relating to second class
townships specifies that
sUpervisors may con-
struct sidewalks of
board, plank or cement
or other suitable ma-
terial along the high-

Thc movement for the construction
of pedestrian paths rcccivctl impetus
when a resolution was adopted by the
Special Board for
stipulating that after January 1, 1934,
all loans or grants to finance public
highway projects shall contain pro-
visions to ensure that the. rights-of-
way for such highways shall be at
least 150 feet wide and that foot-
paths shall parallel them.

 

(arr!!!) Highway Enginrr' and Contractor

ways through towns and vil-
lages in such townships.

The importance of foot-
paths as a feature of high-
way design and roadside im-
provement is recognized by
the Bureau of Public Roads
of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture. In a series of
charts prepared by \Villiam
H. Simonson, Landscape
Architect with the Bureau, and published in The
American City for January 1934, footpaths are
among the features considered. Diagrams indi-
cating the approximate distribution of area in 100
feet and 200 feet right of way sections for two
and four lane highways, respectively, show 10%
reserved for footpaths. Illustrations of roadside
improvements for both urban and rural types of
highways show locations of walks for pedestrians.
In every instance these walks are at a considerable
distance from the paved highway, generally with
an intervening drainage ditch and landscaped
area.

Public \Vorks

Among the problems requiring study and discus-
sion by the Division of Subsistance Homesteads
of the Department of the Interior are listed “the
character of roads and footpaths.” This indi-
catcs that provision for pedestrian travel is recog-
nized as a problem worthy of consideration by the
Federal Government.

In “Planning the Roadside,” issued by the
United States Department of Agriculture as
iarmcrs Bulletin, No. 1481, there appears a series
of diagrams illustrating suggested methods of de-
veloping and improving highways of different
widths and types. Each of these many diagrams
contains provision for a footpath bordering the
paved section of the
highway, at least on one
side. In a number of in-
stances these footpaths
are at a considerable
distance from the pav-
ed section and in many
cases they wind along
between plantings. It is
clear that the provision
of footpaths along
highways through rural
sections is recognized
as a desirable feature.

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP
National Recreation Association

Suggestive and realistic
scenery each has a place.

HE TERMS “stage scenery” and “stage setting”
T are not quite synonymous. “Scenery” is the
physical background of the stage against
which the actors are performing. “Stage setting,”
as the term is usually used, includes not only the
scenery but the furniture, properties, and other
visable accessories which complete the stage
picture.

Every play must have its background or scene.
There are many different kinds or styles of scenic
design. There are realism, futurism, plasticism,
cubism, stylism, constructivism, and many other
“isms.” For simplification we can divide all scen-
ery into two classifications, “realistic” and
“suggestive.”

The terms explain themselves. ‘Realistic scen-
ery strives to create a “real” impression in the
minds of the audience. If the action of the play
takes place in a drug store, the scenic artists con-
struct, as far as the sight of the audience is con-
cerned, a drug store upon the stage as real in ap-
pearance as they can possibly make it. Suggestive
scenery makes no pretense at appearing real. It
merely suggests to the audience the place and at-
mosphere of the action. The drug store in a sug-
gestive setting might be designated by having
upon a gaily painted counter a large stylistic pestle
and mortar carved out of bristol or compo board
and painted. An apothecary scale made in a simi—
lar way might be placed upon the other side of
the stage for balance, and two large painted card-
board bottl‘es might be placed up center against a
draped background. It suggests “drug store” to
the mind of the audience, although certainly it
does not look like one!

The background of a play is a
very important factor in its suc-
cess, Mr. Knapp points out in
this article in which he discusses

various types of scenery, tells
how to make them and discloses
the secret of producing beauti-
ful effects at a minimum ex-
penditure of funds.

 

Each type of scenery has its place. The major-
ity of plays require a realistic setting, a few
(fantasies and allegorical plays) require a sug-
gestive setting, and some plays (historical and
geographic plays, satires and tragedies) may be
done in either manner.

Scenery is often neglected by amateur groups,
because of lack of funds, of knowledge, or of in-
terest in this phase of stagecraft. Attractive and
effective settings, however, can be made very in—
expensiver and scenic design and construction
can be as fascinating as any other phase of stage—
craft.

Good stage scenery is seen only the first few
moments of the play. Then it is forgotten and
the audience watches the actor. Why, then, spend
time, effort and money to create only a momentary
impression? Simply because poor scenery is seen
all during the play. It may be so inappropriate as
to distract or confuse the minds of the audience,
so spectacular that the actor is lost against it, or
so cheap and tawdry that the illusion of perfec—
tion necessary for every good production is lost.

A good stage setting not only tells the time and
place of the action, but suggests the atmosphere
and tone of the scene. Atmosphere is the mental
or emotional state to be aroused in the audience.
Tone might almost be referred to as physical
atmosphere. Every condition has a number of
tones. For instance, the scene is to suggest
poverty, but one tone of poverty lends itself to
simplicity, humbleness, contentment; another to
filth, squalor and vice. One tone of wealth may
be culture, beauty, refinement, while another may
be self-indulgence, egotism and wild revels.

151

152 HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY

Perhaps tne most useful piece of scenery that
can be installed is a drapery setting. This consists
of curtains hanging in folds across the back of the
stage forming the back drop, and across each end
of the stage. Or the ends of the stage may be
masked with wings made of the draperies. The
drapes begin up in the flies, or at the ceiling, and
extend to the floor. hanging in full folds. Instead
of having the drapery all in one large piece, it
should be in strips, each strip overlapping its
neighbor a few inches. This makes them much
more mobile. Entrances and exits may be made
at any plaee, short strips may be inserted for
doors. and strips with a window cut into them
may be put in where desired. Drapes hang more
gracefully, and are easier to put up or take down.
If they have a tendency to pull apart, pin them
together. They may be hung from wires tightened
by turnbuckles, or from small light lead piping.

If only one set of draperies is available, gray
is to be preferred. It forms a soft neutral back-
ground, and can be made any color by throwing
a light of the desired color upon it. Black, white

and dark green drapes are also useful for various
settings.

Draperies can be made of any number of ma-
terials. The least expensive is misprint cretonne
which is purchased by the pound. It is flimsy,
however, and too transparent if there is light be-
hind it. Heavier materials are more satisfactory.
Osneberg is very inexpensive, is quite heavy, and
dyes well. Flannels form attractive drapery set-
tings and are beautiful under light. They have
one drawback, however; they are inflammable and
care must be taken when using them. More dur-
able and satisfactory materials, (also more ex-
pensive) are rep, monks cloth and cotton duveteen.

The drapery setting belongs to the suggestive
classification, and makes a formal and neutral
background. Practically any play may be pro-
duced with them. If the setting is supposed to be
a hovel, broken, battered furniture, a few boxes.
a kerosene lamp flickering upon a table, and the
stage lighted with dim lights create the effect. If
a palace is called for, a couple of ivory pillars
(made of painted building board or enameled
stove pipes) may be set against the drapes, a gold
chair placed upon a draped throne. the stage
lighted with rose and violet lights, and the palace
is completel

Since drapes are so easily used, however, there
is a strong tendency to overdo a good thing and

use them for everything, until the audience be-
comes tired of them.

Flat scenery is easily made. The frames are eon-
strueted of seasoned wood and eovered with can-
vas or osneberg. The cloth is then sized and
painted. The flats are lashed‘together with ropes
and cleats. .\lost play production books have a
ehapter on scenery making. Flats may be painted
over and over again, and gain in richness and
tone with each painting.

For realistic living rooms or dining rooms, wall
paper may be used. It is taeked over an old set
of scenery and taken off after the performance.
This does not hurt the scenery in the least. Shades
of blue, gray and oatmeal may be obtained inex-
pensively. They take light beautifully and form
attractive and realistic backgrounds.

For log cabins and huts an old setting may be
covered with heavy brown wrapping paper, and
the logs or roeks sketched in boldly with charcoal
and high lighted with white chalk. This, of eourse,
may also be removed after the performance is
over.

For oriental settings, palace walls, etc., a f rame-
work of wooden strips may be erected about the
stage. building out balconies, gables, windows and
arched doorways as desired. The frame work is
then covered with stretched ehicken wire. News-
papers are soaked in a solution of glue and water
and wadded into the chicken wire. After the set-
ting is dry it may be painted with calcimine, and
designs painted in as desired with other colors.
Beautiful and rich settings may be fashioned in
this manner with some labor but very small
expense.

OutdOOr settings may be built easily and inex-
pensivly. First the stage should be equipped with
a cyelorama. This is a large pjece of material,
either white or very pale blue or gray. stretched
about the back of the stage in the form of a half
circle. Canvas is generally used, although osne-
berg is also effective. It must be stretched tightly,
without a fold or wrinkle. It may be held in
place by two pieces of lead pipe bent into the half
circle desired, one fastened to the ceiling or
suspended from the flies. the other lying on the
floor, the cloth being stretched between them.
The cyelorama when lit represents the sky, and
looks very airy and distant.

'l'he horizon is made of a long length of build-
ing board or a framework covered with canvas.
It is about two feet high, long enough to reach

(Continued on page 165)

County Grounds for Recreation

it is very limited, all of

us naturally turn away
from the city with its
noises and rush and nervous tension to conditions
such as prevailed when the world was young. For
the human nervous system has known the city for
only a few milleniums, while its association with
woods and streams and the open sky goes back
to the time of Neanderthal and beyond.

The city offers the movie, the dance,° the night
club, and an intimate association with others, but
these have little to offer a tired brain or depleted
vitality. On the other hand the out-'of-doors of-
fers to us the open sky, the sunshine, the grass,
the trees. the flowers, and all animate things.
Most of those activities that belong to the far off
history of the race, even though they may be la-
borious or even painful, are still restful.

It is surely more laborious to hunt for your
dinner in the forest than it is to buy it at the cor-
ner store, but what sportsman would not prefer
the former method, even though it involved many
miles of walking with climbing over logs and
rocks along difficult trails. Even the perils of the
-wild, its savage beasts and savage men, the dan-
gers of the rushing stream, the thin air and bliz-
zards of the Alpine height give us a thrill that
stirs old racial memories and make us feel alive!
\Ve gladly work hard to build our house in the
woods or make the bivouac and find it restful.

There is apparently at
our doors an opportunity
such as was never offered
to a great people before.
The White House study of
Social Trends states that
due to the new technical ef-
ficiency, o u r decreasing
birth rate, the dropping out
of immigration, and the loss
of our foreign markets, we
now have about 55,000,000
acres in cultivation more
than we need. Ever since
Secretary Wallace has been

I N OUR LEISURE TIME, unless

By HENRY S. CURTIS, Ph. D.
Ann Arbor, Michigan

During the depression there have been
many helpful statements made by lead-
ers in many fields regarding the value
of recreation and the need for main-
taining governmental expenditures for
it in spite of the general need for
economy in local government. It is in-
teresting to recall that Dr. Curtis in his
book, “The Play Movement and Its Sig-
nificance,” published in 1917., incorpo-
rated a very effective chapter on the
cost of playground and recreation serv-
ices in which he gave at that time, as
justification for expenditures for recre-
ation many of the reasons now being
advanced by thoughtful people.

in office, he has been saying
we have too much farm land,
and in one way 'or another
we must get 40 or 50 million
acres out of cultivation. At the meeting of the
economists in Philadelphia a short time ago, Pro-
fessor Tugwell, Assistant Secretary of Agricul-
ture, announced that the government had set
aside several million to buy up land in four
states in order to take it out of agriculture. This
was to be marginal land, which is at present ruin-'
ing the farmer who attempts to work it, and is
putting a surplus on the market, thereby.bringing
down the prices for all, often below the cost of
production. He said that if this experiment work-
ed in these states, the government planned to put
$350,000,000 into this project in order to buy up
50 million acres of land. This land to be used .
largely for recreation as forests, game preserves,

and parks.

There are 3200 counties in the United States,
with perhaps 2000 agricultural counties. If 50
million acres of land were divided equally among
2000 counties it would give each county 25,000
acres of land, which would constitute a goodly
forest and game preserve. Distributed over the
county, it‘ should secure most of its scenic and
historic locations for parks as well.

The land which the state and the United States
have bought in Michigan during the last decade,
amounting to more than a million acres, has cost
about three dollars and a
half an acre. It would seem
that the seven dollars per
acre allowed in the esti-
mate should be ample, for
much of the land that
should-be secured would be
eroded hillsides or aban-
don'ed farms, or marshes or
low lakes, which offer the
best possible havens for
waterfowl and fur bearers
but which are nearly worth-
less for other purposes.
Naturally as much wood-

153'

154 (70 UN T Y GRO UNDS FOR RE C REA T! ON

land as possible should be included. Most great
estates of England have their hunting forests, but
this plan would give a hunting forest to the peo-
ple of every county. In a game preserve animals
and birds soon learn that they are protected and
become nearly as tame as domestic animals. \Vild
geese in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, will
very nearly, if not quite, eat out of your hand.
The forests of America at the time of settlement
were full of game. The forest and the game
refuge go admirably together, and a compara-
tively sniall protected area will supply game to a
large outlying country.

\\'e are at present growing only about 25% of
the timber we are using. Every community ought
to have in its neighborhood a permanent supply
of the wood and timber which it needs. In the
long run, timber and game are the only profitable
crops that can be grown on this marginal land.

If every county has a county. forest, it will have
also a camp site for the boy and girl scouts, the
4H clubs, the playgrounds, and any other groups
who wish to camp out. Every boy and girl ought
to have this opportunity for a time each summer,
and sooner or later I hope every high school, at
least, and perhaps many of the elementary schools
are going to provide
the opportunity fo r
their students as much
as they offer classes in

.. ' ‘rn.’ fmv sum

Are we at the beginning of a new day in out-
door life when we, too, shall live closer to nature?

 

Geography or Latin. If we are seeking a use for
leisure time, the most wholesome use for the most
hours lies in a love of the out-of—doors. In this
time of increasing leisure, every county needs to
provide these leisure time opportunities as much
as it does a court house. The schools should en-

courage and develop a love of birds and trees and
flowers.

These park sites will also furnish opportunity
for tourist camps, for picnic groves, for bathing
beaches, for golf, tennis, and other forms of ath-
letics. \Vith a 30 hour week, adults are going to
have much more time to hunt, fish, camp out, and
play outdoor games. The community must pre-
pare for it. '

The time is peculiarly opportune to secure such
a system, because there is much farm land that
has ceased to have any value and which is going
back to the state from non-payment of taxes. The
farmer would really be better off to give his farm
away than to attempt to work one of these mar-
ginal areas under present conditions.

The country is looking for work for the unem-
ployed. The reforestation of these tracts, the
building of roads, the making of bathing beaches,
developing camp and picnic sites and athletic
fields would give work
to many.

There are probably
in the neighborhood of

-- - .r-Ilr

COUNTY GROUNDS FOR RECREATION 155

.-

one hundred thousand rural schools in America.
Most of them have less than half an acre of
ground. They need at least two acres for a play-
ground alone; while if they are to have garden-
ing and nature study, as most of them should,
they need at least five acres. It would be much
better to buy or lease this ground for the schools
than to hire the farmers to let a portion of their
land lie idle and grow up to weeds. For the de-
partment to set aside a quarter million acres for
the schools would be only an incident in a 50 mil-
lion acre allotment.

A word regarding the expense involved. A few
of our state parks are already self-supporting, and
others are approaching the economic condition
through the sale of wood, the renting of camp sites
and the ordinary proceeds from their bathing
beaches and golf grounds. In the “process of the
years” the timber and game from these areas will
be far more valuable than any other crop they
might raise. The fur bearers and game offer a
large annual return in money and food as well as
in fun. Pennsylvania estimates the value of its
game alone at $7,500,000 a year which would be
3% on $224,000,000, nearly enough to buy the
whole system of parks, forests and game preserves
proposed. The tourist crop is dependent almost
wholly on the opportunities for recreation of-
fered. Michigan estimates that tourists bring more
money into the state than any of its industries
except the automobile. One of our leading citi-
zens and editors has recently said our annual re-

turn from this source to be $270,000,000, which
would be 3% on nine billion dollars.

Of course most of these financial estimates are
mere guesses. We are far more interested in the
social returns, and here we can be more accurate.
Such a system for each county would offer an op-
portunity for recreation to everyone, whether his
interest is in golf, or hiking or swimming or hunt-
ing or fishing or camping. Perhaps no other coun-
try is rich enough to provide in every community
the facilities for the recreation of all, from the
school children to those who merely wish a scenic
drive with a chauffeur.

Good roads and the automobile have made the
country accessible as it never was before. \Vhile
we need our city parks as breathing spaces it is no
longer necessary to put all our recreation areas
within the city boundaries. Prof. McKenzie’s
study in “Social Trends” shows that our densely
populated city interiors have lost twenty percent
of their population in the last fifteen years, while
the metropolitan areas lying round about have

gained 50%. Wealthy citizens are largely build-
ing their fine new houses outside the city limits in
order to have larger grounds and cheaper taxes,
as the nobility of Europe has°always done. Work-
ingmen are moving out in order to have a garden
and cheaper rent. Slowly the smaller industries
are moving into the smaller towns. Henry Ford
says in his autobiography that as soon as possible
he intends to break his Highland Park plant up
into a thousand plants which will be located in
the small towns and operated by a local water
power.

There are many things about the Government’s
plan which have not been definitely determined
but if it works out in general as it has been out—
lined, it will be the beginning of a new day f0r
outdoor life.

NOTE: The plan mentioned by Dr. Curtis for ,
the diversion of marginal lands is outlined in the

following announcement which appeared in the
N ew York Times, January 4, 1934:

“Twenty—five million dollars has been allotted
for the removal of submarginal lands from com-
mercial crop production according to the an-
nouncement of the Emergency Administration of
Public Works. This will turn to forest or non-
crop status 40,000,000 to 50,000,000 acres unfit
for farming. Submarginal lands taken out of pro-
duction will be used for additions to the national
domain, Indian reservations, national forests and
parks. The three major areas in which it is under-
stood the taking over of the worst farm lands will
first be undertaken include sections of the Eastern
Appalachian highlands and costal plain, the cut-
over timberlands along the Great Lakes and the
arid region of the \Vestern Great Plains.

“A plan for the diversion of some of the mar-
ginal lands for the breeding of migratory and up-
land game birds was also offered by Secretary
Wallace. Full development of the game-bird re—
sources should give full-time rural employment to
from 30,000 to 40,000 men and eventually utilize
50,000,000 or more acres of land according to a
statement of the Department of Agriculture.”

The February 28th issue of the New York
Times announces the decision of the Land Policy
Committee to purchase immediately $25,000,000
worth of marginal farm land. Secretary Wallace
estimates that the total acreage secured will be
between 3,000,000 and 5,000,000 acres. The main
problem, he said, will be to conserve the human
interests. People living on these lands will be
assisted in finding homes elsewhere.

.WORLD AT PLAY

 

H U N D R E D S of
people trouped into
the auditorium of the
Outlet Company in
Providence to view a collection of exhibits rep-
resenting the products of spare time work done
by local people. It was the first hobby show to
be sponsored by the Leisure Time Activities
Committee, Inc., of Providence, and many peo-
ple contributed to it. The exhibits ranged from
such miniature attractions as wampum and ar-
rowheads to such an elaborate project as a
marionette stage complete with characters and
lighting. This stage represented the major ef-
forts of two members of a family and the inci-
dental contributions of three other members of
the same family. ‘

Stix, Baer and Fuller, a department store in
St. Louis, held a hobby show with over forty
exhibits and demonstrations “of all the happy
and productive things one can do in spare
time." Talks and demonstrations were given
by recognized authorities.

More Hobby
Exhibits

 

ARTHUR BRIS-
B A N E, the well-
k n o w n newspaper
man, was born in the
old mansion now used as the Batavia, New

A Memorial Wading
Pool

York, City Hall. Austin Park, which is directly -

behind the City Hall, contains a beautiful large
concrete wading pool, landscaped with a fine
rock garden effect. .\lr. Brisbane is the donor
of this pool which he gave in memory of his
father. The simple inscription on the tablet
reads: "This pool for children was built by one
of the children of Albert Brisbane.” The pool
formed an important part of the very success-
ful playground program last summer.

IN April the Depart-
ment of Playground
and Recreation of
Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, completed its city-wide backyard con-
test conducted in cooperation with the Tenth
District Parent Teacher Associations. Neigh-

156

Los Angeles Completes
Playground Contest

borhood committees Comprising representa-
tives of the P.T.A., municipal playgrounds and
schools, inspected all the entries in every dis-
trict under the supervision of the Parent
Teacher Fathers’ Councils of each neighbor-
hood. Judging was based on the degree and
quality of recreational development accom-
plished by backyard owners within the four
classifications of the contest, which offered
competition for yards developed at unlimited
cost, at a maximum of $15, at a maximum of
$5, and at no cost at all. The best yards in each
class in every neighborhood received certificate
awards and qualified for city-wide judging.
Owners of winning backyards were hon0red at
the annual Tenth District Parent Teacher Con-
vention in Los Angeles.

THE Detroit. Mich-
igan, Board of Edu-
cation la st winter
opened the work-
shops of five of its schools. in order that adults
of the city might have an opportunity to fol-
low their hobbies or to- gain a practical knowl-
edge of machinery. The courses were informal.
Unless instruction was asked for each person
worked on what he liked and eaine and went
at any time. Competent instructors were in the
room to give advice. There were no fees and
no expenses except for materials.

School Workshops
For Adults

THE City of Fram-
ingham, Massachu-
setts, has used most
advantageously fed-
eral and town welfare funds to develop its
playgrounds and athletic fields. \Vith $28,000—
$16,000 of which was for labor; $5,000 for ma-
terials and $7,000 appropriated by the town——
a splendidly equipped field house has been
built on the large centrally located athletic
field. The building contains well-appointed
locker rooms, showers, toilets, large common
rooms and a fine heating plant. It is divided
into two sections—one for the use of school
pupils, the other for community use. Each sec-

New Recreation Build-
ing for Framingham

WORLD AT PLAY 157

tion has its own showers, locker and club
rooms. The large club rooms are about 50x30
feet. The basement contains a long room which
may be used for floor games, such as shuffle-
board, ping pong and similar games.

A Social Club for Young Men and Women-
Filling a distinct need of unemployed young
men and women of Mount Vernon, New York,
is an organization known as the Prometheus
Social Club which makes it possible for young
men and women to enjoy recreational oppor-
tunities together. There are twenty-two mem-
° bers between eighteen and twenty—Five years of
age who meet once a week— at Campbell House.
During the year they held group theater par-
ties, dances, group parties, picnics and debates.

Bowling in Memphis—Sixty-six teams of
women bowling under the auspices of the Park
Board is the interesting report from Memphis,
Tennessee. In order to make the expenses as
low as possible, an afternoon program was
started last year with a membership fee of 25
cents. Members bowl three games at 15 cents
a game and each week contribute 5 cents for
the prizes awarded at the end of the season.
In November, 1933 a well—known woman
bowler conducted a school for beginners. Over
350 women enrolled in this school which was
held for five days at the recreation alleys. At
the end of the school a new league for begin-
ners was organized known as the Gold Divi-
sion. This proved a satisfactory method of
mixing the various groups, and as the girls
were assigned to the teams it enabled the
director to make a more equal distribution of
playing strength.

Point System in Monroe, Louisiana—Last
summer the Monroe, Louisiana, Recreation
Department developed a point system for use
on the playground. For each activity and pro-
gram a specified number of points were given.
The children did not work for individual prizes
but their objective was to make their play-
ground the best in the city. There were in-
dividual activities but these were scored for
the ground and not for the child. Points were
given for grounds having the following: Best
attendance; greatest number national athletic
badges awarded; best and largest handcraft ex-
hibit; best scrap book; best made and produced

 

 

a long step forward in playground swing

development. Children face each other and
"pump up" higher than ordinary swings. with
absolute safety. Seats remain on a level plane.
always. Over lOO installations in Chicago. and at
"A Century of Progress." Write today for special
folder and new free book describing full line of

LOUDEN PlaygroundI Gym. and Beach and Pool
Equipment.

J. E. PORTER CORPORATION
LOUDEN no BROADWAY

Ottawa, Illinois

a UNIQUE. patented apparatus that represents

PL AYG ROU N D
EQUIPMENT

puppet show; greatest number of activities, in—
cluding extras; best clubs, story—telling activi-
ties and contest entrants, dramatic activities,
.tournaments and contests; best kept grounds;
best sportsmanship; greatest improvement in
grounds, programs and activities.

Albany’s Municipal Golf Course—On May
28, 1932, Albany, New York, opened and dedi-
cated to the public its new eighteen hole mu-
nicipal golf course comprising 262 acres. A
total of 34.979 players registered for play dur-
ing the 188 days the course was open between
May 6, 1933 to November 9, 1933. The 578
purchasers of seasonal permits played'2o,192
times. The average play for the season mem-
bers was 33 times in the 153 days of actual
play. The following green fees were charged:
Season membership, resident $10; season mem—
bership; non-resident $15; locker per season $5;
daily permit, eighteen holes or less, 50 cents——
Sundays and holidays 75 cents.

153 WORLD AT PLAY

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

lnstall Diamond Pitching Horsashoa courts
on your playground for a popular gama
that costs little to maintain. Diamond shoes
and accassories ara prafarrad by players
avarywhara. Baginnars find Diamond shoas
aasy to pitch and old-timers damand tham.
Accurately mada—parlactly balanced—
will not crack or chip.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46|O GRAND AVENUE . DULUTH. MINN.

A New Game—The younger generation in
Queens, New York City, likes a little spice
with its recreation. Two special ofiicers found
four boys bounding back and forth over the
high voltage third rail of an elevated structure.
“\Ve’rc playing skip the third rail,” said one of
the boys. “And how do you play that?” “\Vell,
if you touch the third rail you lose.”——From
the United Press, New York, March 8th.

Notes From Cincinnati's Report—Needing
much more land for recreational facilities but
handicapped by financial conditions which re-
quired caution in land purchases, the Public
Recreation Commission of Cincinnati sought
the aid of other city departments which co-
operated by transferring land under their con-
trol that could be spared. The City Manager,
Finance Committee, the Council and the Law
Department smoothed the way for this pro—
cedure. The city government then turned to
the county government and to private concerns
to secure additional land of vital importance.
As a result the acreage under the control of

 

the Public Recreation Commission has more
than doubled in the two year period, rising
from 430 acres to 1,035 acres.

\Vhile engaged in adding 605 aeres and
$650,000 worth of improvements to its recre-
ational plant in a twenty month period, the
city has been unable to make more adequate
provision for the operating budget of the Com-
mission. This budget dropped from an average
of $160,000 for preceding years to $145,000 in
1932 and to $131,000 in 1933. Nevertheless a
larger program of activities has been carried
on and a greater number of people served than
in any previous year.

City Planning in Germany— In September,
1933, the German Reich passed a law regulat-
ing the development of residential areas, par-
ticularly in the unbuilt open areas surround-
ing the towns. The new law gives state authori-
ties power to designate as residential areas dis-
tricts in which houses are to be built or where
it is believed they should be built, if it is
thought that the interest of the public or the
welfare of the residents would be injured if
there were no appropriate regulations. For
these residential areas a site plan must be pre-
pared. If such a plan is established by the town
authorities a subdivider must meet the follow-
ing requirements: He must give the com-
munity up to twenty-five percent of his land in
the case of a single family development and
up to thirty-five percent in the case of an apart-
ment house development, for public roads,
squares, recreational facilities or any other
public needs; he must provide roads, water
supply, sewerage, lighting, school buildings
and other necessary civic improvements if the
authorities so require.

A Winter Sports Conference—Over a hun-
dred winter sports enthusiasts attended the
Outdoor Rcreation Section of the three-day
Recreation Conference held on March 17th at
Massachusetts State College. Among the sub-
jects discussed were ski trails, walking, hiking
and tramping. Historical walks were advo-
cated and it was urged that interest be aroused
in putting. signs on historical and other inter-
esting spots in western Massachusetts. It was
also suggested that a western Massachusetts
Winter Sports Committee be organized to

WORLD AT PLAY

stimulate communities in this section of the
state to develop winter sports facilities.

Ernst Hermann, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Newton, Massachusetts, called attention
to other forms of winter sports, emphasizing
the values in figure skating, sledding and to-
bogganing as family recreations.

The Kellogg Company Makes a Leisure
Time Study—The Kellogg Company of Battle
Creek, Michigan, has made a study of the use
of leisure by 133 men and women employed in
the production department. It shows that 84
per cent of men and 68 per cent of women de-
vote more time to reading. Newspapers headed
the list. Many were found spending their time
in the garden and at sports, while some would
just “sit and rest.” Eighty per cent of the
women now devote more time to beautifying
their homes and doing housework; at the same

time an equal number of men prefer puttering'

about the house, fixing and mending things,
and growing flowers. Each worker was asked
what he would like most to do with leisure
hours. The replies varied from “contented as
is” to “flying.” One would like to study pipe
organs and another raise chickens. The replies
were grOUped in the following broad classi-
flcations:

Activity Women Men
Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 18

Sports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 32

Work at home . . . . . . . . . .. 13 8

Entertainments . . . . . . . . . . . 11 2

Earn money . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 8

Gardening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Travel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 11

Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 3

Tennis in Los Angeles—Thousands of resi-
dents of Los Angeles are enjoying tennis at
night on lighted courts provided by the city.
So great has been the interest in night playing
that the Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment has found it necessary to equip nearly
forty playground courts with overhead light-
ing systems during the past three years. Opera-
tion of these centers is being carried on with-
out additional expense to taxpayers through
the use of a coin meter system by which play-
ers pay a small fee to cover the cost of the
electric current used. During the daylight
hours the same courts may be used free of
charge in the same way as all other tennis
facilities of the Department. '

E be value of

Playground Apparatus

Playground apparatus brings to the child SAFE
opportunities for daring, which is so much a
part of childhood’s training. The desire to
swing higher, lo slide more quickly, to chin
one’s self more often, to see-saw faster, is child-
hood’s preparation of the courage to dare, to
do, to excel, which is so essential to success in
adult life. Playground apparatus, a typically
American development, is creating a race of
vigorous, healthful, courageous citizens, who
will make and keep “their place in the Sun.”

Playground Apparatus brings to the strong his
opportunity “lo shoulder the pig trough”; to
the wcak it brings a sense of equality (it pro-
hibits an inferiority complex). It trains strength
so it is coordinaled wilh mind. It strengthens
weakness so health results.

It is of equal importance, however, to stress the
heallh value of exercise as i1 is supplied by
playground apparatus. It brings to the growing
child the opportunity for a variety of exercise
totally different from the usual, nalural motions
of the body in walking, running or working.
The child learns to handle himself in difficult
positions and litlle-used muscles receive health-
creating development.

No one denies that children get exercise around
their homes, walking to school, and running in
games. If working, walking, running exercise
was thc only kind, -of value to life, there would
he but. little playground apparatus made and
sold. But, after exhaustion from work, the work
of play—refreshes!

The spirit, too, receives renewing as it finds
“new worlds to conquer!” Playground appa-
ratus brings to the vivid imagination of the
child another outlet and direclion which de-
velops and enriches this Cod-given attribute!

Every child needs these qualities and opportun-
ilies in the same full measure as do the chil-
dren of any community.

The wide variety of functions of the wide
variety of playground outfits, found in the
EverWear line, bring to every child, regardless
of his need, just the sort of recreational and
health-giving Opporunities he should have——

and the Child is Safer
on EverWear!

fff

Copyrighted 1934 by the EverWear Manufacturing Company.
Springfield, Ohio. U. S. A.

The EverWearManufacturing Co.
Springfield, Ohio.

The world’s oldest and largest exclusive maker
of playground, beach and pool apparatus

159

160

   

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

        

MAGAZINES

Mind and Body, March 1934
Awards? by Thomas A. Campbell and Trevelyn A.

James
National Recreation, by James Edward Rogers

Park: and Recreation. March 1934

The Guiding Motives in the Design of a Modern
Park. by Edward Clark \Vhiting

The Problem of Our Country’s Forests. by Phelps
“’yman

A Nature Sanctuary. by Hugh S. Davis

Extensive Civil Works Program in New Jersey In-
terstate Park

Parlu and Recreation. April 1934
Electric Fountains. by R. J. Swackhamer .
The CW’A in Fort “forth and the Effect of \Vtse

Planning. by R. C. Morrison

The Problem of Our Country's Forests, by Phelps
W'yman

Cities of Southwest Enthuse Over Diamond Ball, by

Ronald Capps
A CWA Recreation Project in St. Louis, by Alfred

Fleishman
Chicago Zoological Park to Open This Summer

New 2005 for New York
The Journal of Health and Physical Education, April 1934

Educational Possibilities of the Dance. by Mary
“'ood Hinman

Decreasing Juvenile Delinquency. by R. B. Grunc-
wald

Gymnasium Hockey or “Shinney”

Report of the Recreational Director of the New

York House of Refuge

Alley Soccer
Basket Ruu

Journal of Adult Education. April 1934
Depression's Drama. by Eve Chappell
The Library Journal. April 1934
Education for Leisure. by Clarence E. Sherman

The Nation's Schools. April 1934
Shall Control of Athletic Sports Be Placed in Pupils'

Hands? by C. D. Giauque
Adelphi Academy Prepares Pupils for Leisure Time

The Journal of Educational Sociology, April 1934
Leisure-Time Social Backgrounds in a Suburban
Community. by John F. Fox
Block Recreation Project. by Frank Kaplau
The Penny Game Room, by Abraham Goldfeld

The Record of the Girls' Friendly Society. April 1934
Let's iIike. by Estelle Burrill

Safety Education. May I934
It's Safer on the Playground. by George D. Butler
Playgrounds and Safety. by H. Louise Cottrell

PAMPHLETS

Rhode Island Independence Day

Rhode Island Arbor Day
Ttie Commissioner of Education, State of Rhode
slant]

Juvenile Delinquency—Selected Bibliography of Recent

Material
Bulletin Number 122. Russell

Library. $.10.

Sage Foundation

MAGAZINES AND PAilIPHLETS

Year-Round Programs Initiated—\Vith the
appointment of Mrs. R. L. Currier, formerly
Superintendent of Recreation at Lynchburg,
Virginia, as Director of Recreation in Char-
lottesville, Virginia, the city has initiated an
active program. An outstanding event was the
festival of Negro spirituals directed by George
L. Johnson of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation with a chorus of 200 voices. Other ac-
tivities have included basketball leagues with
twelve teams of men, twenty-one teams in two
boys’ leagues, and five teams of women, and
weekly square dances for the unemployed in
the city armory.

The Board of Aldermen of \VinstOn-Salem,
North Carolina, has created by special ordi-
nance a Public Recreation Commission.

Free Golf Instruction—A recent service of
the Union County, N. J., Park Commission was
free golf instruction given for two weeks by
the Commission’s golf professional for the pur-
pose of creating greater interest in the game.
Through this arrangement, any resident of the
county who is having difhculty with his game
0r who has never played golf received a course
of three 45-minute lessons without charge.

Activities in Louisville—The Louisville,
Kentucky, Division of Recreation, in spite of
its reduced budget conducted an active winter
pr0gram. Ten junior and senior high schools,
three buildings owned by the Board of Park
Commissioners and an abandoned school build-
ing loaned by the Board of Education, were
used during the winter as evening community
centers. Twenty men’s and five girls’ leagues
in basketball, embracing approximately 175
teams, played a regular schedule each week.
There were also volley ball leagues for indus-
trial girls and for men. Eight women’s gym-
nasium classes and seven tap dancing classes
with an enrollment of 1,600 adult women meet
weekly in every section of the city. Because of
limited facilities it was necessary to concen-
trate the evening program on adult activities
and confine children’s classes to the full time
centers and Saturday morning dancing classes
in three junior high school buildings. Fifteen

hundred children from three to sixteen years
of age received free dancing lessons each week.

Leisure and Poetry—Poetry is responsible
to a great extent for the impetus which has

1
l

WORLD AT PLAY

initiated the Girls’ Club News Reel, the result
of a newspaper club started in January, 1934 in
\V'orcester, Massachusetts. Members are un—
der-privileged girls from fifteen to seventeen
years of age who contribute original stories for
the monthly newspaper of the Girls’ Club. The
girls are finding poetry more interesting than
prose, and many worthwhile verses are the

result.

Centers for Unemployed in Toledo—The
Division of Recreation of Toledo, Ohio, during
the past winter has operated two centers for
the unemployed. One'is in a large building
with auditorium and smaller rooms formerly
used as a music conservatory, where activities
are largely dramatic, including the making of
scenery and costumes. Repairs to the building
were made through C.\V.A.; the Division of
Recrcation is supplying light, heat and janitor
servicc. Thirteen leaders were furnished by
C. \V. A. The second center is a former medi—
cal school building. Here gymnasium classes,
boxing, wrestling, tap dancing and other activi—
ties make up the program. A number of C.\V.
A. workers are providing leadership.

Recreational Leadership—The \Vestbrook
Junior College in Portland, Maine, has initi—
ated a two year course in recreational leader-
ship “to direct and develop the interests of
girls who desire to become leaders in the field
of recreation.” Courses are offered in English“
community life, arts and crafts, camping, recre-
ational activities, nature study, physical eduCa-
tion, music, dramatics, hygiene, and first aid.

Swimming Their Way to Health—Learning
to swim in a swimming pool has given back
their “land legs” to three Louisville children,
victims of infantile paralysis, and several
othcrs are gradually regaining the use of their
limbs. At the advice of their physicians the
children entered thc free swimming classes
conducted by the Louisville, Kentucky, Divi-
sion of Recreation, where they are given
special instruction: The classes are conducted
inOconjunction with a mothers’ class so that the
mothers of the children can learn to swim at
the same time. Transporting the children to
the park pool has not always been easy, but
with the cooperation of interested club women
and the use of the police patrol the problem is
being met.

Clean

FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chlorlde . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the madern playground. How im-
partant to protect them from the dan-

gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next ta nothing.

An application afSolvay Flake Calcium
Chlaride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chlaride kills germs.
The phatamicrographs pictured here
shaw you the results. 347 cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

   

Before treatment After treatment

Make this a dustless outdoar season
an yaur playgrounds. Senditoclay for
full infarrnatian and baoklet No. “.59.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
H. .___.. Alkalies and Chemical Praducts Manufac-
EJ tured by The Salvay Process Company
61 Broadway New York

S 0 LVAY

C H L0 RI DE

FLAKE—77%—80%

161

 

 

 

 

162 WORLD AT PLAY

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

(formerly Notable Swimming Pooh and Guide to
Equipment and Supplies)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT, ETC.

Hoiiman-l—larris, Inc.
lllt East 32nd St. New York City

Detroit's Annual Demonstration — The
women’s twelfth annual demonstration of the
Detroit, Michigan, Department of Recreation,
held in April, took the character of a pageant
as the Spirit of the Present Summoned Recrea-
tion and her attendants to demonstrate for
other women the recreational activities spon-
sored by the Department of Recreation during
1933 and 1934. Fifteen hundred women took

part in the program of mass calisthenics and
dancing.

Increased Attendance At Museum—The an-
nual report of the Cleveland, Ohio, Museum of
Art shows the increasing service of that institution
to the community. An attendance of 400,468 at
the museum last year broke all previous records.
Regular class work for school children and
adults increased during the year. New classes
and clubs were formed, and adult work has de-
veloped both in the museum and through co-
Operation with various departments of \Vest-
ern Reserve University and other institutions.
These activities, together with a great variety
of other work carried on at the museum, have

 

made that institution one of the most vital and
human organizations of the city.

Dancing Instruction in Los Angeles—Danc-
ing instruction was stressed on the program of
the Los Angeles, California, Department of
Playground and Recreation, when on April
3rd playground directors started on a twelve
week course of training under expert leader—
ship. The tirst three weekly sessions covered
natural dancing and character and dramatic
dance games for young children. Folk dancing,
English country, Morris, stick and sword
dances are also included in the course, as well
as rhythmic gymnastics.

When You Plan Your Summer Program
(Continued from page 129)

show, and an entertainment by a group from
Jackson State Prison. At all except the last men-
tioned, for which a charge was made, collections
were taken. Soft drinks and ice cream were sold
to swell the fund. About $400 was raised and
with these funds four workers were employed

to supervise four playgrounds afternoons and
evenings for eight weeks.

Facilities. \Vhile outdoor facilities are the
main concern in the summer program, it is inter-
esting to note a few of the developments in in-
door centers which are helping to make the play-
ground program more effective.

The dads’ clubs connected with the playgrounds
of Alton, Illinois, have built attractive little com-
munity houses on two of the playgrounds. There
are no mothers’ clubs in connection with the play-
grounds but the women help the men, especially in
money raising affairs. In Scranton, Pennsylvania,
a project is under way to equip the second flows
in two tire stations and one police station as com-
munity centers. Each floor has two rooms which
can be thrown into one making a large room'35'
by 80'. A check room, a small kitchen and lava-
tories are being added. C.\\”.A. workers are be-
ing used on the project.

Sioux City, Iowa, has a community center built
at a cost of about $1,200 with C.\\".A. labor, from
material from ten old buildings. As a result, the
building has some beautiful windows, French
doors and lighting fixtures, all from old mansions,
which add greatly to the attractiveness of the
building.

THAT EVER PRESENT PROBLEM—LEADERSHIP! 163

Leadership
80 fundamental is this question and so inter-
esting were the ways in which the problem was
met in a number of communities that a separate
article has been devoted to this subject. (See

page 131.)

An Important Need and Opportunity
(Continued from page 130)

the desires existing among the high school gradu-
ates should be presented at the meeting, and a dis-
cussion be held of what might be done about
them.

5. The very definite question as to the gradu-
ates might well lead to a friendly discussion of
the whole field of leisure-time music in the city,
as it is and as it might be. And this discussion,
based on a clearly expressed intention to deter-
mine how the greatest musical good can come to
the greatest number of people in the community,
could lead to the formation of a civic music com-
mittee out of whose cooperative planning and ac-
tion one or more festivals and other large or
small group musical activities might be brought
about or enhanced, making for increased happi-
ness and social well-being among all sorts and
ages of people in the community.

Whatever else is done, the recreation leader
will probably be doing a good service by confer-
ring with the school music supervisor, who is
likely to be too busily confined to his school work
to have gained the community point of view and
the knowledge of leisure-time needs and of means
of organizing for them that the recreation leader
has.

That Ever Present Problem—

Leadership

( C outinmd from page 132)
Local Organizations to the Rescue

In all parts of the country Parent-Teacher As-
sociations helped to make playgrounds possible in
1933. In Denver, the association appointed a num-
ber of.playground committees representing vari-
ous communities and members of the committees
visited the playgrounds at intervals. Their visits
stimulated a general community feeling about the
playground and in many cases the ground became
a community gathering place, a number of Parent
Teacher Association meetings being held there.

Parent Teacher Associations also helped in
Flint, Michigan, by paying something toward the
services of directors in a number of school play-
grounds. For the most part leadership was sup-
plied by forty volunteers, mostly high school boys
and girls with men from the Parent Teacher As-
sociations in charge in the evenings. These vol-
unteers worked regularly. The director of physi-
cal education, paid a small sum during the sum-
mer by the Board of Education, held weekly
meetings with the volunteers and kept track of
their activities. About three hundred junior high
school boys were given a week’s outing and train-
ing by the Boy Scouts and were used on traffic
control around the playgrounds. Band concerts
were given by high school groups conducted by
directors from the school music department who
served as volunteers.

The Park Department, through its Division of
Recreation in the summer conducted twelve play-
grounds with nineteen directors paid a small
weekly sum. The playgrounds were operated four-
teen weeks for four of which the playground
directors volunteered their services.

Last summer the Kiwanians of Sunbury, Penn-
sylvania, sponsored a playground which proved a
great asset for three hundred children of the com-
munity. A plot of ground 150 by 300 feet in a
residential section of the city was graded, an ad-
ministration building was erected, and equipment
was installed. A nearby grove was put into con-
dition so that the children might have the shelter

'of the trees on hot days. The Kiwanians provided

a director and paid regular visits to the center,
playing with the children whenever opportunity
offered.

A Word of Warning

Volunteer leaders have helped to save the situ-
ation in many communities but unless these lead-
ers receive some training and are under the direc-
tion of trained workers their usefulness will be
greatly curtailed and there is serious question
whether their service is an asset or a liability. One
city last summer tried the plan on a number of
playgrounds of using as directors relief workers
without the guidance of any trained play leaders.
The plan involved having two persons on each
playground, changing workers every day in the
week. In general these workers showed little
ability, energy or initiative. Attendance was small

164 VOLUNTEER RECREATION LEADERSHIP

Special litter in RECREATION Readers!

14 ISSUES OF

LEISURE

In: MAGAZINE or A rnounuo DIVE-MW

(REGULAR SINGLE COPY PRICE IS CENTS)

for25c

ONTAINS vividly interesting features on indoor

8 games. outdoor sports of all seasons. amateur

dramatics. hobbies. avocations, home-craft—

a wealth of suggestions for the pleasureable use of
leisure time.

‘l'eachers. parents. educators. recreation directors—
persom of all ages and callings—enjoy reading
LEISURE. You will. too, Clip coupon below—fill
in your name and address: enclose 25¢ and mail to-
day for four issues.

 

Four Months for 25c.

LEISURE. 683 Atlantic Avenue
Boston. Mass.

Please send your special four months offer to:

NAME ............................................................................................ ..
ADDRESS 
CITY   STATE .................... ..

and equipment was stolen. There was no continu-
ity of rules or plans and the results proved con-
clusively the necessity of having trained leader-
ship to supervise the work of untrained peeple.

In a southern city because of lack of funds it
became necessary to close the playgrounds on
july 10th. The playgrounds were reopened again
on July 17th under the leadership of untrained
relief workers. During the five weeks period in
which this plan was in operation the attendance
dmpped about one-third.

In such instances the difficulty lies not so much
in the personality and ability of the workers as
in the failure of those in charge to realize the vital
importance of training and guidance.

Volunteer Recreation Leadership
(Continued from page l3?)

The experienced playground director, in recog-
nizing the merits of the volunteer plan and in
adopting some of its features for his own use,
will be aware of the dangers that accompany it
There is the chance that the public will miStake
volunteer leadership as a satisfactory substitution

for salaried service and this misconception must
be guarded against. The director will also realize
that volunteer helpers need continued follow-up
appeal or their interest will wane. He will learn
to espect no help or little help from volunteers
in discipline problems, care of equipment or use
of equipment. Special care must be taken in re-
gard to the safety of children who are taken away
from the playground on special educational 01
outing trips.

Despite these difhculties, it must be said in all
fairness that the volunteer leadership plan has
given unexpected stimulation to playground sup-
port during the present crucial years and has
yielded valuable newspaper support of a most
helpful nature. It has given new vigor and em-
phasis to certain educational features of the rec-.
reational program. The trained directors have
become more administrative-minded and have
made valuable contacts in coordinating the service
rendered both by adult volunteers and .by junior
volunteers on the playground. The director has
thus bmome a leader in training leadership. For
these many reasons the volunteer supplementary
program does not appear to be a temporary re-
course, but rather a permanent and desirable
aspect of community recreation organization.

Seeing Nature in Glacier

National Park

(Continued from page 140)

spent in the West. With flowers. birds and mam-
mals all about, interest is not hard to arouse.

But may children be brought to Glacier Park
and kept there for weeks or months? To this
question the answer is yes: better than in some
more popular spots. Chalets lack the distractions
of hotels: housekeeping cabins are beginning to
appear. Camp grounds are Spacious and clean.
with showers and laundries to care for personal
cleanliness. A good wall or umbrella tent makes
an adequate summer home, while stores are not
too distant to provide fresh and properly balanced
foods. Yet surroundings are those of a national
park, not the crowded. shabby array that often
forms the summer village

In such spots families may camp, enjoying the
full values of mountains. Does SOme trail seem
rarely worth while? Then they travel it as often
as they wish. enjoying plants, animals and scenes.
Do clouds threaten one‘s trip today? Then put
it off till the sky is bright, whether that is to-

HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY 165

morrow or next week. Meanwhile, birds'and in-
sects may be watched, or stories exchanged with
neighbors from Montana, California or the East.

For the camp is a friendly, restful place where
formalities rarely intrude. Yonder a worn um-
brella tent stands—the home of a white—haired,
crippled grandmother who lives in a village on the
plains. Each summer she demands two weeks in
the Park, to which her husband always objects.
“But they do him as much good as they do me,
even if he doesn’t admit it. Just wait till he sits
down to a meal cooked on this honest-to—goodness
fire. Harry, quit fussing with your hooks, and
roll these logs closer together !”

On her left, two geologists are camped for their
third or fourth season in Glacier. They are busy
with notes and diagrams, while a neighbor dis-
cusses photography. An eastern professor and his
wife hang their laundry from branches of limber
pine, chatting with a weather—beaten Texan who
is making a collapsible stove. A naturalist shows
two butterflies to a group of eager, brown—skinned
children, while a solemn fellow puffs a meers-
chaum pipe and murmurs W z'e 'zvmtderschon!

The camp ground a summer home? It’s a place
to live, to feel, to learn—to recreate, in the full—
est sense, values lost by urban haste.

Like Springmlt's in the Air!
(Continued from page 143)

In another far-away garden, there is,

“Here stand I,
forever lonely

Amidst the flowers tall

\Vhile o’er my figured bosom

Faint shadows slowly fall.

And to the busy world without

Whose life by hours I keep;

I say, ‘T’is time to'rise,’

And then, ‘T’is time to sleep’.”

And so the great gift of a fuller life lies in-

vitingly on the doorstep. The wise will accept this
gift, for the simplicity of an ordered and rich life
is not an inheritance; it is an achievement.

The Dawn of a New Era for Tennis

(Continued from page 148)

son combinations in the mixed doubles. Many
of the players appeared in three divisions.
Owing to the short time we had to complete
the tournament it was necessary for many to
play from three to five matches a day. It was
a case of the survival of the fittest.

During the week of constant play it was no-
ticed that many spectators would come to the

courts about 10:00 o’clock with their lunches,
would find a good seat overlooking several
courts and would stay there for several hours.
A number of war veterans came in their wheel
chairs and one of the committee members made
a point of looking after these men.

At the end of the tournament ten champions
were crowned. Mrs. Jonathan Rogers, wife of
the chairman of the Board, presented the
awards at the finals which were attended by
over 2,000 people. Among other prominent
citizens His Lordship, the Mayor, was present,
one of the most interested spectators.

After the games were over a spectator com-
menting on them said: “I may have seen better
tennis but I have never seen such a demonstra-

tion of fair play as was shown during this
competition I”

How to Produce a Play

(Continued from page 152)
across the stage, and is bent into the same half
circle as the cyclorama. It is painted a pale green
if a grass horizon is desired, yellow if the desert,
or mountains may be painted on in pale violet.
This is placed upon the stage floor a few feet in
front of the cyclorama.

Trees, fences, pillars, stumps, bushes and cor-
ners of buildings are carved out of building board,
painted, and placed upon the stage in front of the
horizon. They are easily made, and with a good
cyclorama and a number of these “cut outs” a
great variety of settings is possible. The settings
made in this fashion are more plastic, more mo-
bile, and much more attractive than painted scen-
ery. It also allows for very effective lighting.

Furniture and other physical accessories upon
the stage must be selected carefully. For histori-
cal plays, fantasies and suggestive settings, old
furniture may be changed by the use 'of carved
compo board and paint. Carvings may be modeled
on with plastic wood or paper mache and painted.

The scenic artist is warned to work in close co-
operation with the lighting artist, the costume
artist and the property man. The whole effect
must be one of harmonious unity.

A good setting is as important to a scene as is
the background to a painting. The scenic artist
and his assistants have as great an opportunity for
artistic expression as any other part of the pro-
ducing group, and once started on the right road
will take joy and satisfaction in creating artistic
and effective stage settings.

Service Helps

The American Playground Device Company of An-
derson. Indiana. has issued a new catalogue describing
among other pieces of apparatus the Castle Tower. a new
design. Kansas City. Missouri. has installed 78 such

towers on the public school playgrounds.

Information on shuffle board for both indoors and out-
of-doors is given in a leaflet issued by the H. G. Cress
Company. Box NR-53. Troy, Ohio. which will soon
issue information regarding a new game.

The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Company, 4610 Grand
Avenue. Duluth, Minnesota. has issued a booklet giving
the ofiicial rules of horseshoe pitching and general in-
formation on promoting horseshoe clubs. It may be

secured on request.

In Everwcar’s Playground Apparatus Catalogue (24)
the safety features of the various pieces of apparatus and
their durability are emphasized. The catalogue may be
secured from the Everwear Manufacturing Company,
Springfield, Ohio. “Beauty and playability.” states the
report, "may be taken for granted in Everwear."

The Indera Mills Company will be glad to send the
Indera Figurfit I934 swim suit catalogue to all who re-
quest it by writing the Indera Mills Company, general
ofiices and mills at Winston-Salem. North Carolina.

From the Mitchell Manufacturing Company, Milwau-
kee. Wisconsin. which has been manufacturing various
kinds of apparatus for a period exceeding thirty-four
years. Catalogue #20 is availahle giving full in formation
regarding Mitchell "Bctterbilt" line of playground ap-

paratus.

The Paddle Tennis Company. Inc. 285 Madison Ave-
nue. New York City. has issued a folder setting forth
the advantages of paddle tennis. The prices of individual
items and complete sets are given in this folder. which
also includes oliicial rules for the game and suggestions
on laying out a court. This pamphlet may be secured on

request.

The School of Education. Pennsylvania State College,
State College. Pennsylvania, describes in its summer ses-
sion bulletin the courses given in the field of physical and
health education. A circular devoted exclusively to the
health and physical education program will soon be

available.

Catalogue #204 describes the I’epperell Yarns and

Handicraft especially prepared for school. playground
and summer camp activities. It may be secured from the

Pepperell Braiding Company. East Peppcrell. Massa-
chusetts.

166

 

The J. E. Porter Corporation. Ottawa. Illinois. manu-
facturers of Loudcn Playground Equipment, has issued
a catalogue telling in detail of its equipment. The Cor-
poration. which last year equipped the Enchanted Island
playgrounds at the Chicago Century of Progress. is man-
ufacturing the Junglegym in four sizes on an exclusive

basis.

From G. Schirmer (Inc.), 3 East 43rd Street. New
York City, may be secured leaflets announcing a number
of publications of interest to recreation workers. such as
the “Botsford Collection of Folk Songs,” "Come and
Caper” (creative rhythms. pantomimes and plays with
music). and "Folk-Songs of the Four Seasons.”

Edward Schuberth and Company, ll East 22nd Street.
New York City, publishes vocal and instrumental music
of interest to recreation workers. A catalogue entitled
"Selected Songs and Ballads” lists a notable collection.
many of them old English songs. Write for complete

Thematic catalogue.

"Road Service Stabilization,” published by the Solvay
Technical and Engineering Service, Solvay Sales Cor-
poration. 61 Broadway, New York City, describes ma-
terials and methods for construction and maintenance of
low cost stabilized roads. The Corporation will be glad
to give advice on the use of calcium chloride.

Charles A. Toebe Leather Company, 149 North Third
Street. Philadelphia, has issued a catalogue, "Toebe
Artistic Leathercraft." which contains a wealth of in-
formation for those interested in this craft.

The C. B. Webb Company, 200 Fifth Avenue. New
York City. distributes the Weaver Scholastic Ball known

as "the ball with the fool-proof valve.” This ball is
adapted for use in schools, camps, playgrounds, gym-
nasiums. and in water sports.

Church Music and the New Leisure
By Augustus D. Zanziq

PAMPHLE‘I‘ stressing the importance

of congregational singing and sug-
gesting ways of making music the
church's most potent means of arousing
and sustaining the religious attitude.
IIelpful source material is given.

Price 5.10

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
815 Fourth Avenue
New York City

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

The American Costume Book

By Frances H. Haire. A. S. Barnes 8: Company, New
York. $5.00.

MISS HAIRE, author of The Folk Costume Book, has
given us in this book an illustrated volume show-
ing the dress of the original American, the Indian, as
well as the dress of the early Colonists of the Eastern
Seaboard. The author, through careful and extended re-
search, especially on the Indian costumes, has cleared up
some of the inaccuracies surrounding the dress of the
Red Man in various sections of the United States divided
for the purpose into four zones——-the Plains Indian, the
Forest Indian, the Desert Indian and the Everglades In—
dian. We have, too, the Indian Scout, the Homesteader
and the Cowboy. The descriptions of the various dress
characteristics are so carefully worked out that they will
be readily usable. Not the least interesting feature of the
book is the brief but illuminating background which Miss
Haire gives us for each of the periods she describes.

"Songs of Stardom"

By James Hudson and Edward Spicer. Aetna Publish-
ing Company, 516 Fifth Avenue, New York. Copies

obtainable from Dr. Bertha Chapman Cody, 570 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York City. $.50.

T 13 SAID TIIAT “in the beginning the stars sang to-
gether.” This book sets to singing a great deal of in—
formation about the stars. It makes the gathering and
memory of that information easy and delightful. There
are songs of the planets and of the size of the planets,
of the constellations and of the “stars that shine over
Bethlehem” (on Christmas night). The “Signs of the
Zodiac” tells where to locate the constellations of the
zodiac; the “Song of the First Magnitude Stars” makes
it possible to learn these with their often difficult names
in a few minutes; and the other songs do similar feats.
The tunes are on the whole very delightful and the words
have a rhythm and lyrical quality that make it possible
really to sing them. There are many drawings to help in
exploring the sky.--A. D. Zansig.

The Summoning of the Notions

By Elisabeth Woodbridge Morris. With “Hymn for the
Nations” by Josephine Daskam Bacon. Samuel French,
Inc., New York. $.35.

HIS SHORT PAGEANT of the changing world written by

Mrs. Morris under the auspices of the League of Na-
tions Association, Incorporated, interprets in brief, vivid
phrases the finer spirit of each nation of the earth. It
has been constructed in such a way as to offer the widest
possible range in its presentation from a simple reading
by a single person to an elaborate pageant using hun—
dreds of peOple in full national costume with national
choruses. _The lines are admirably suited for recitation,

and are especially well adapted for use in schools. “In
view of the present world emergency,” writes Charles
Rann Kennedy, “it should be put on at once in every

church, school, club, and public playground throughout-
the land.”

Swimming Pool Data and Reference

Annual

Higggban-Harris, Inc., 114 East 32nd Street, New York.

MUCH MATERIAL of interest and practical help to recre-

ation workers, physical educators and swimming
pool officials is to be found in the 1934 Annual which
contains the Joint Committee Report on bathing areas,
their construction and sanitation, general information on
the administration and operation of pools, water sports
and games, the converting of pools into ice skating rinks,
and many other allied subjects.

A Study of Girls' Athletic Associations
in the Secondary School

Prepared by the Committee of the Boston Group of the
Women’s Division, N.A.A.F. Distributed by \Vomen’s

IEgision, N.A.A.F., 303 West 42nd Street, New York.

HIS UNIQUE STUDY is a distinct contribution to the

literature dealing with secondary schools. It con-
tains a model constitution for a 'GAA, a very compre-
hensive point system based on physical education class
work, voluntary participation in activities outside of
class time, service, leadership, health and awards, the
latter being divided into two classes—group and indi-
vidual awards.

Leisure-Time Interests and- Actwrties
of Business Girls

By Dr. Janet Fowler Nelson. Womans Press, New
York. $.75.

THIS STUDY, made possible by a grant from the Ameri-
can Association for Adult Education to the National

Board of the Y. W. C. A.’s, is based on data secured
through a questionnaire and through diary records of
approximately 1,000 business girls and young women
ranging in age from seventeen to thirty-eight years earn-
ing from $10 to $50 a week. The questions kept in mind
throughout the study were: “With what are the leisure
hours concerned?” “What are the major interests P”
“\Vhat are the major activities P” and “What is the rela—
tion of interest to activity?” Many tables are given and
a careful and detailed analysis is made of the findings.
The study will be of keen interest to recreation workers.

167

168 NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

A Recreation and Sports Handbook for
Playground. School, Community and Camp.

By Ferd J. Lipovetz. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

This book, which is published in mimeOgraphed form,
has been prepared to fill the needs of the new course,
"Playground. School, Community and Camp Recreation,"
which is being given at LaCrosse State Teachers Col-
lege. The material is grouped under four general sec-
tions': I, General Theory and Practice: II. Summer
Playgrounds: III, Camp Recreation; IV, Community
Recreation. It is illustrated with sketches, graphs and
charts. While the compilation as a whole may be secured
for $3.85, separate sections may be purchased at the fol-
lowing prices: Sections I and II, $2.30; I and III, $1.50;
I and IV, $2.15.

An Introduction to Physical Education.

By Eugene \V. Nixon, ALA. and Frederick \V.
Cozens, Ph.D. \V. B. Saunders Company, Phila-
delphia. $2.50.

The new conception of physical education is outlined in
this book, and the steps are described through which
physical education has won its place as an integral part
of all education. The volume is divided into three parts
H-Philosophy and Principles of Physical Education, Sig-
nificant Problems in Physical Education, and Profes-
sional Outlook in Physical Education. A chapter on
Physical Education and Leisure Time stresses the im-
portance of training for leisure by schools and the teach-
ing of activities which have carry-over value.

More Fun in Bed.

Edited by Frank Scully. Simon & Schuster, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

A number of well known humorists and writers have
contributed to this book which contains a great number
and variety of humorous tales, sketches, anecdotes and
bits of wisdom or foolery. Among the book’s features
is a "play pen" in which the convalescent will find a great
many games and puzzles and suggestions at which he can
work with the pencil attached to the cover of the book.
One need not be ill to enjoy this book, which like its
predecessor, Fun in Bed, is proving very popular.

German Youth in a Changing World.

Terramare Office, Kroncnstrasse 1, Berlin W 8.
Germany.

This attractive booklet represents a compilation of
brief articles on various phases of the life of the youth
of Germany. It traces the development of the youth
movement and discusses such subjects as Leadership of
German Youth, Youth Hostels. Youth in Labor Service
and Hitler Youth. There is also some information re-
garding the Olympic Games to be held in Berlin in 1936.
The booklet contains unusually beautiful illustrations.

Hand Craft Projects.

By Frank I. Solar. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $1.25.

This, the third in the handcraft project series, contains
directions for making about seventy-five articles. some of
them toys. many of them useful articles such as a win-
dow cold box or a shoe-polishing stand. Iiach project is
accompanied by diagrams. There is an opening chapter
on the home workshop which has many interesting and
practical suggestions to offer.

Fun With Dry Batteries.

National Carbon Co., Inc., New York. $.l0.

This book should prove very appealing to boys to the
great majority of whom electricity and its uses are a
fascinating subject. The booklet first explains in simple
language some of the principles of electricity and how a

dry cell works. It then gives directions for making
electro-magnets, binding-posts and connectors, switches,
for installing bells, buzzers, closet lights and electric
locks, and for making electric toys. And what could be
more attractive to a boy than to delve into the mysteries
of signalling and electro-plating?

A Handbook of Social Programs
For High School Teachers.

By G. Turner Hicks, Ph.D. Murray State Teachers
College, Murray, Kentucky. $l25.

In this interesting compilation of social programs the
author has set some very definite objectives for high
school social evenings and parties, has analyzed the
values which come out of them and for which all leaders
should strive, and has presented a practical application
of these values in this collection of special day parties,
social programs, stunts, charades, jokes and miscellaneous
suggestions. Recreation workers will find this book help-
ful in planning their social recreation programs.

A Community Serves Its Youth.

By Frank W. Herriott, Ph.D. Available from Asso—
ciation Press, New York. $2.00.

Here is a case study of the scope and relationship of
agencies dealing with high school students in Montclair,
New Jersey, a suburban community of about 42,003
people. It carefully considers existing programs and
their adequacy, the needs of adolescents, the extent to
which the needs .are met, and the contributions made by
the churches and other groups. In conclusion, it brings
to bear its findings on the problem of coordinating the
efi'orts to provide for the free time of adolescents and
suggests that for Montclair the experiment be attempted
of making the Group \York Division of the Council of
Social Agencies, which includes the character-building
agencies, the coordinating group.

 

 

thccrs and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ossrn Lu, President

out! Ii. FINLIY, First Vice-President
outs G. Wtesxv, Second Vice-President
osnr GAIII‘I’Y, Third Vice-President
Gustavus T. Ktasv, Treasurer
liowssn S. Bennett", Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mrs. Eowno W. Btonu Carlisle, Pa.
Wtuau Ilurrrswosrn, Sloline, Ill.

CLAIINCI .\i. Cans, Philsdelphis, Pa.

lien-v L. Cosssrv, Portland, Ore.

Mas. Arruus G. Luann, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. Truss: Dawson, Locust Valle . L. I... N. Y.
.\ils. Tucsus A. Button, West range, N. J.
{one Ii. Ftuuv, New York, N. Y.

lucn Fssvns, bew York, N. Y.

Ross-r GAIIITY, Baltimore. Md.

Ausvtx E. Gstnirns, Seattle, \Yssh.
\YILLIAH lisu liusxus, New York, N. Y.
Cl-iAlLll linens, New York N. Y.

.\ils. Cnnus v. litcxox, shown: can , Ind.
Mrs. FIARCII DILACY lives, l’lainfteid, '. J.
GUSTAV!!! 1‘. Run New York, N. Y.

n. Melt. Dalton, indianapolil, lad.

.\lss. Cmsus l). LMHII, Greenwich, Conn.
Rosrsr LAIIIYII, Charlotte, N. C.

osmt Lss. Boston, Mass.

.owasn E. loosen, New York N. Y.

. Ii. McCusov, Springfield. .\ an.

o T. Masts", Philadelphia, Pa.

Want- A. Mar, Pittsburgh, Ps.

CAIL E. Mutts", Au usta. Me.

ails. Ocean 1... .\itt.t.s, Yoodbury. N. Y.

Mrs. wuss W. \YADIWOIUI, Js., Wsshiogton, D. C.
{5 C. \‘auu New York.  Y.

stontex bi. \Yassuso, New York, N. Y.
can 6. thmr, Concord, N. Ii.

. Is. \Ytulnt ll. \Yoootn, JL, Tucson, Aria.

