Youth Today

VERYONE is concerned to do something for youth. Two million, two hundred and fifty
E thousand boys and girls reach sixteen years of age each year. Comparatively few of these
boys and girls go on with their studies. Most of them want work, life, adventure. ro-
mance. Work large numbers of them cannot have now, have not had for four years. So we
cudgel our brains and try to think out plans of organization for youth that will be a substi-
tute for work. Now we may as well face once and for all that for youth there is no substitute
for work. Work is the only solution and work with pay.

Of course youth wants recreation—music, drama, and all forms of interesting activity.
Youth is as ready as ever to contribute a measure of volunteer public service. But recreation and
community and public service can never be a substitute for work with pay.

Work with pay gives status, standing, promise for the future, a chance to dream and
plan. Without work the youth of 1931. 1932. 1933. 1934 look at their girls and see no op-
portunity to marry, to set up real homes for themselves as past generations have done. When we
do not give our youth a chance to marry we pile up for ourselves future mental, physical.
moral and citizenship problems.

Yet work for youth is nor a problem by itself. The problem of work must be solved for
all ages and all people. It cannot be solved for youth alone.

After all we live together in families. The family is the fundamental unit. Only shal-
low thinking would lead us to believe that to any large extent we can solve the work or the
life problem by isolating youth. Youth has its contribution. Middle age and old age have
theirs. Experience and maturity cannot abdicate and turn the world over to youth much as we
might like to do so. All'ages and all groups are in the same boat together and must get to shore
together. Youth has its contribution to make with others. but it is not nearly so likely to make
that contribution in isolation. Never has there been a time when there was more need for wis-
dom and eXperience and maturity to be added to daring and courage and adventure. We do as a
nation most for youth when we do for the entire problem of unemployment.

Recreation and volunteer service and adventure for youth always. The task of recrea-
tion agencies truly is doubled in this emergency. But let us not claim that for youth there is any
substitute for work with pay—or that there is any way out for youth that it n0t a way out

for work for all.

Yet within the family no giving up of property is too great to save the youth within
that family. The need of the youth of America this day is so great that no use of accumulated
resources should be denied that will save our youth—and with them all the rest of us—from
disintegration. Except as we keep life and h0pe in our youth our accumulated pr0perty will
have no value for the future. After all caring for our youth is simple preservation of life values.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

NOVEMBER, |93I4

 

361'

.L .>. £933.. ‘R 53 rink humanism 33......0

 

The Art of Abundant Living

ARELY, if ever, has there
R been a Congress which so
nearly justified the titles
and advance notices about it. The book of sug-
gestive questions prepared in connection with the
Congress was entitled “Recreation and the Abun-
dant Life”; and the first “note” in the regular
program said, “The Recreation Congress is a co—
operative gathering of all those interested in rec-
reation as a means of more abundant life.” These
advance descriptions turned out to be true.

Everyone spoke of the friendliness and fine
spirit of the delegates in attendance at the Con—
gress. They were full of life and play—genuine
exemplars of the theme that we were talking
about— rich, vital, friendly living. There was no
end to their capacity for work and for play. They
attended general meetings and section meetings all
day, conferred in the corridors and at the meal
tables, and they would burst into play at any
spare moment, between sessions or after sessions.
The evening play meetings were always joyous
and there were several nights when an eager group
would gather around Mr. Zanzig and sing and
sing and sing, until one delegate said that he
thought that the Recreation Congress was an or-
ganized movement to abolish sleep! And this
eager, joyous spirit was something of an achieve-
ment, something of a conquest, for a large number
of the delegates to this Congress—presumably a.
larger number than ever before—had had their
salaries cut, were working with reduced budgets,
had come at their own expense. Twenty-two dele-
gates from New Hampshire and groups from sev-
eral cities were there entirely on their own funds.
Yet they were all zestful and happy, keen to give
and to get all possible help.

The Wardman Park Hotel was an admirable
setting for the Congress, its wide
and long corridors affording the
freest opportunity for informal
conversation and questioning. It
wo uld sometimes take from
twenty minutes to an hour to
walk the length of the lobby, not
only because it was long but be-
cause there were so many people

By ROY SMITH WALLACE
National Recreation Association

In this statement Mr. Wallace
has outlined briefly the pre-
dominant featuresl characteris-
tics and spirit of the Twentieth
National Recreation Congress.
Detailed reports of discussion
meetings and many of the ad-
dresses will be found in this and
succeeding issues of Recreation.

eager to talk with one another,
to exchange experiences and to
help carry one another’s burden.

It should be said, too, that the local committee
on arrangements was very hospitable and cordial,
and that the tours and expeditions were numerous
and were greatly enjoyed. Tribute, too, should be
paid to the management of the Congress for the
operation of an exceedingly smooth-running series
of meetings for which every detail of service had
been foreseen and carefully worked out so that

without effort and without apparent machinery
everything went perfectly.

A Truly Representative Gathering

The Congress was a National Congress. All sec-
tions of our country and of Canada were repre-
sented, and I think never before has there been so

heterogeneous a group in attendance. There was
a large indux of relief workers from city, county
and state, many of them attending for the first
time and all eager to get the most from the Con-
gress. Then there were many workers in the
bureaus of the federal government who came not
merely to appear on the program, but again and
again to listen to and participate in general and in-
dividual discussions. Many representatives of
other agencies interested in the general recreation
Held, not only the partly recreational agencies
such as the Scouts, youth organizations and the
settlements but also the Child Study Association,
the Parent-Teacher Associations, the American
Federation of Arts and others were present. And
there were, of course, as the regular nucleus of
the convention, the executive and staff workers of
the municipal recreation systems and the board
members guiding and directing their work, these
latter in larger numbers than usual. Many of the
city delegates, too, were there for
the first time, younger and newly
appointed staff members who had
not been able to get to Los
Angeles and who had come into
the movement since the Toronto
convention. So the spirit of f riend-
liness and hospitality was espe-
cially important for them.

363

364 THE ART OF ABUNDANT LIVING '

The great characteristic of all this heterogene-
ous. cooperative group, however, aside from the
friendliness and the enjoyment of one another,
was that they were all eager for information,
knowledge and support, for sharing of experi-
ence. They were all consciOUs of facing in these
troublous days a new set of facts—of relief ad-
ministrations, state, county and federal, actively
engaged in recreational activities; of adult educa-
tion on an enriched basis indistinguishable from
our own field; of self-initiated activity in these
days of excess normal and enforced leisure; of
emergence into prominence of great and varied
leisure time interests—music, art, craft, drama—
long familiar, but only half-heartedly recognized
as genuine and major recreational responsibilities.
And they were all, together, sharing the spirit of
the pioneer, all experimental, all on the same plane
—technicians and laymen, local and national, pub-
lic and private——-all seeking help and ability for
greater service in the recreation field.

Federal Agencies Take a Prominent Part

It would probably be true to say that never be-
fore has there been such an understanding be-
tween the total forces of the recreation movement,
public and private, local and national throughout
the country, and the federal bureaus working in
or touching upon this field. \Vith the scene of the
Congress laid in \Vashington, it was possible to
have there not as perfunctory speakers, but as gen-
uine participants in the "cooperative gathering"
representatives of the Department of State, of the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration, of the
Office of Education, of the Bureau of Biological
Survey, of the Federal Power Commission, of the
National Parks Service, of the Civilian Conserva-
tion Corps, of the Extension Service of the De-
partment of Agriculture, of the Forest Service, of
the Children's Bureau, of the Tennessee Valley
Authority and the National Resources Board, as
well as the First Lady of the Land herself.

The result of all this wide representativeness
was that the picture presented was perhaps more
nearly a total picture of all that was going on in
the whole field of enrichment of living than we
have ever had before. A great work is being done
--by private agencies, by federal, state and local
governments with all their various bureaus and
ramifications, by the departments of education, by
recreation departments, by parks, by relief, by
adult education, by self-organized groups, and by
individuals. Everywhere there were great interest,

keen realization of the need for recreational serv-
ices and genuine recognition that human beings
are the same now as ever only with more time on
their hands during which they can do interesting
and enjoyable things. There was realization, too,
of the need, in all the various experimental activi-
ties now being carried on, for the old wisdom, the
tested experience of those agencies and workers
in the field for a long time and with ability to
serve and guide and help in this time of new
recognition and new demands.

Indeed the expressions of thanks to the Na-
tional Recreation Association by representatives
of private agencies and of governmental agencies
in both the national and state field were so fre-
quent, so complete as to be almost embarrassing.
It almost seemed as though the speakers had been
urged to pay tribute to the Association or as if
only those speakers who would say nice things
about the Association had been put on the pro-
gram! The thanks, however, though almost em-
barrassing, came from individuals who were so
well informed, who could cite specific instances
with names and dates and places as to help re-
ceived. that it all did sound perfectly plausible
and true. And it showed a wide range of activi-
ties, a keen alertness for opportunity for service
on the part not only of the National Recreation
Association but of the recreation movement and
the workers in this field. Otto .\-lallery, presiding
at one of the evening meetings, made public ac-
knowledgment that the National Recreation As;
sociation, though technically a public service cor-
poration with membership, etc., was not merely
the Board of Directors or the paid staff of the
Association, but that it considered itself and
should honestly be considered as just the coopera-
tive effort of all those eager to share their ex-
perience and judgment and skill in this great field
of community recreation.

All Share in the Program

The program was far less technical than most
programs prepared for the National Recreation
Congress. Everyone, therefore, seemed to be
equally at home in the discussion—hoard mem-
bers, staff members, technicians, representatives
of private agencies and of public agencies. The
Congress was genuinely seeking “opporunities for
creative experience"—a real all-round rich pro-
gram serving a great variety of individuals of all
ages and conditions of life. It was not a Congress
on children's play nor a Congress on adult recrea-

THE ART OF ABUNDANT LIVING 365

tion. It was a Congress on how to help all human
beings richly to enjoy life. This was true not only
of the general meetings but of the section meet-
ings which talked about What Men and Women
\Vant To Do, Keeping Alive Through Drama,
What Parks Are Doing for Abundant Life, Rec-
reation for Family Life, Comradeship Through
Social Recreation, Play for Youth, Widening
Horizons Through Nature, Hobbies, Zestful Liv-
ing Through Music, Preparing Children for
Abundant Life, Creative Arts and Crafts.

There was recognition of the need for self-
untiated and self—directed activities. Volunteers
and their contributions were accepted. There was
constant questioning of anything which should
smack of a superimposition in program making.
There was awareness that those responsible for
recreation would need to think freshly and in non—
conventional patterns in order to provide recrea—
tion for long week-ends and long after-work
periods rather than the short-time recreational ac-
tivities to which we have become accustomed. Co-
operation and the organization of community
forces, the need for public understanding, for
boards of laymen were all recognized, talked
about, wanted and needed._ Indeed there seemed
to be a constant, alert, well-informed attempt to
approach radically and from new points of view
the needs of human beings these days for abund-
.ant living. Many who have been working and
urging and prodding in order that the public rec-
reation movement, for instance, might give more
recognition to music or to drama or to handcraft
.or to nature activities must in many previous
Congresses have felt that they were prophets cry-
ing in the wilderness; that few of the rank and
file really did share their
convictions that activities
in these fields would min-

A number of special events were scheduled

of the richness of its own content and that the
job is indeed the art of abundant living.

And this, of course, means new techniques—
for the discovery of interests, of hobbies, of lead-
ers; for training; for research and experimenta-
tion in how the recreation forces of the country
may serve real needs as we find them; for new
organization methods by which we can avoid im—
posed and restricted programs; for discovery of
methods; for the cooperation of all social forces
and agencies; for social engineering methods.
Techniques are needed, too, for advance planning
on an enlarged scale to serve the existing needs
of all, for the genuine enlistment of the interests
and power of board members and other laymen,
and for development from our present confusions
and especially from our relief-supported activities,
into durable governmental service agencies.

A New Measure of Life Values

In these days it seems actually possible that life
may have a new measure of values, that success
is not, in the future, to be measured in terms of
acquisition of wealth nor even in full days through
financial purchase of enjoyment, but rather that
success is to be measured even popularly by ability
to live richly and abundantly through exercise of
growing skills, through creative experiences that
shall culminate in art or beauty, and that shall
be judged by these ideal standards. In The Epic
of America, James Truslow Adams identilied
American ambition with success in money-making
and said that the standards of American life were
hxed by the money—makers. The experience of

the last few years has undermined this identity.
And Mrs. Roosevelt, Lorado Taft, John Colt,
Daniel Poling, Arthur E.

Morgan were only the
leaders among those at

ister to the needs of their
.clients. At this Congress
such leaders must have
felt that the movement
had genuinely caught up
with them; that whether
because of more free time
and energy or of budget
assistance from relief
funds or of a new com-
prehension and attack on
our problems the recrea-
tion movement as a whole
was at last genuinely aware

for delegates of the Congress by the Wash-
ington Committee on Local Arrangements the
chairman of which was C. Marshall FinnanI
SuperintendentI National Capital Parks.

Among these events were a Sunday afternoon
boat ride down the Potomac River on the
Coast Guard boatI "The Apache;" a produc-
tion of "Alice in Wonderland" by the Com-
munity Center Department of the schools;
play day and folk dance demonstrations by
children from several playgrounds under the
Playground Department: an afternoon tour of
Washington parksI playgrounds and com-
munity centers: a tour of settlement houses
under the auspices of the Council of Social
Agencies: an exhibition at the National
Museum by the Potomac Rose Club.

this conference who chal-
lenged and fundamentally
denied this, who insisted
that life is more than meat
and that life in America
in the future is to glorify
and afford the opportunity
for not the acquisitive,
but the abundant life.
This was the challenge
to us recreation workers,
for we, too, shall be
judged by our ability to
(Continued on page 407)

Living and Preparation For Liie
Through Recreation

By MRS. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

 ‘.. '- I{x'-.“-.~.evr‘lt, the Chairman, Dr.

r ' ' h" .i-. Thr -rrgtniznti-\n 'egan in me
\U .I II N. «a ntv -'i;‘:.'n tearr ago and now the
W i l. 1... t:- r tur' tn u.- I put it it. the third
He.» 1 - IIt-umt'm I si. elr’, but I w- uld like tr ad-
rren b it t'e u. and perv u.

\\ . or- .‘I - t .ttl' tur what me ha .ared t.. d. for
:m‘ar - net" I a trim". bhe e'rmen nc--.rer leing omni-
1rt‘t'nt “It '13 uth r w man or mm in America, or
berhafn u tilt wmrl l. The bli‘ll'l'at fatnilr cat’t he sure
whet tw- ‘1etr : k.» ck at me d-«wr that it isn't Mrs.
R. » ~‘.\'t‘lt .‘uming t m we them. but we 9;]! hr) in that fact,
that m \\ :titt II- In.“ will cum.- t) the tum'wlest house
in " I“ ‘tnd.

hue wa~ typified tw the world as the ideal woman.
I'Lnnpw-m. Jm-sn't k. \w :1} mt it, But I have taken his
line- a.le "zt'ult..l a few of my rwn. and you will know
w‘n are 'Iennys In ~‘ and \t'.ti.‘h are mine without my
telling you.

“l. . 1.: fun mtt. man t . one fair planet goal,
Sealing with htm the shining steps ~he

Haining in rwretne‘s and in moral height,

.\’ur lo:.i;1g wrestli; : thews that throw the world.
She. mt ntal "rea-‘th nnr failing childhood eare.
Nor lore tht r'nldlikt in the larger mind.

:a'. ..ht has nc‘ .rer self to man. in fact.

1 Ike pu-rfett music unto nolnlt words.

 

Dr. Finley Introduces Mrs. Roosevelt

Seer-'1 .u' v .gnt In: Mn. Henry Merger-thou. Jr... Dr. J. H. McCurdy, John Colt,
M't.R0uIOVI'1. Mn.Thomu A.Editon W iem Buttorworlh, Denial M.Poling.Auttin E. Griffiths.

.1,

And in a nation in whose heart there'- dwells-

b-une sense or duty, something of a faith.

1» mt t‘t-.'I r- net for the laws ourselves have [llnut
5 mt. patit It f-.\re.: to change them when we will.

I am s~-rry that I was nrt alale to go with Mr. Butters
w \rt.‘l ar.l (triers to see the President and tr '- express ap-
preciation to him "I what he has done in aid of what we
are interectel in. I would have liked t-r have said to him
these lines which I 'wegan to write, Mrs. Roosevelt, when
we traced just at the end of the \Var:

He h‘b l otter made the best of us

'Xnd {hie-81 each single ehest )f us

He has [e l the hungriest of us

Ht has ell “Ed the nakedest oi us

Long. lmg will he be hlest of us

N urtn. >3- -uth and East and West r-f us.

.I t wete t) add tr the Tennyson medley, to you 1
should quntt a few lines from the nohlest apostrophe to

woman in literature. the last chapttr in the Book of
Prover‘u:

Her prine In alvwe rubies,

hhe pereeinth that her merchandise is good.
She strttehtth out her hand to the poor;
bhe atl'Ctl'llCIh fl -rtlt her hand to the needy.
Her husband is ltnr-wn in the gates,

She openeth her muuth with wisdom.

I l:rwent tr- yeu. Mrs. Roosevelt.

‘r mumps. I think
M that all one can say

is that it is a joy
to be presented to any
attriirttrt h} Ilr. Finley”.
httt alsn an. rlttih'll'l'flSS-
.nrnt. t trt'tinly, he pre-
svtis wtu mwrt (ltarm-

i‘llgi‘ thin. am on. I
l‘."r*\\

l..-’ ;I.. u I‘. l‘r‘ft’lt

Igln said .;l.u tw win:-

1 wt: u'. urt turd
~ll .«tt. t-‘ A .illi'tlttl
'l1 'u i u. artil‘ I

“LJ all“! TU"

11 tit! (“11‘ i t -tt lltat

- '1 a!!! “t ' t 1i all Ult‘

llll"‘l'ttllli .‘itl L' in it
t-rtll- has» 1 [wt in the

LIVING AND PREPARATION FOR LIFE THROUGH RECREATION 367

building of human beings in their health and in
their character and in their ability to enjoy life.
I know that my father used to say—and I think
his brother felt the same way—that one of the
most important things to learn was to enjoy life,
that you never could be really useful in the world
if you had not learned to go gaily into whatever
you were doing, whether it was work or play.
To learn to play is one of the most valuable things
in the building of any child’s character.

Now, at the present time, this question of
recreation is more important to us than it has
ever been before. In the hrst place, we know that
we are going to have more leisure time and that
recreation does not mean only doing certain spe-
cihc things. Recreation is a wide, wide word that
covers innumerable occupations.

Sometimes what is recreation for one person
would be work for another. We must, however,
develop all possible nelds to satisfy as many tastes
as possible. \Ve must realize that this is -a very,
very big held, and the fact that we are going to
have more leisure really puts upon all of us who
have an interest in the use of leisure time a
greater responsibility than ever before.

Now, already in our education we have realized
that little children can and should learn a great
deal through play, but as they grow older, while
we have as a rule had athletic programs for older
children and while private agencies have provided
them with programs of different kinds, I think
in many of our high schools, particularly, we have
neglected very often the possibilities for teaching
a variety of recreational activities, but I think
now we have come to realize that here is one
place where we could improve what has been
done in the past.

I think we have a new problem before us just
at the moment, which I hope will not be with us
for long, but which is with us now; namely, that
many children are coming out of high school,
some of them out of junior college or college
even, and are not able to 13nd any work to do.
Therefore, their time is unoccupied, and unless
those of us who take an interest in the recreational
activities of any community make a special effort
to have programs for these young people in our
communities, I think we naturally will find a great
many young people getting into more or less
serious mischief.

And therefore, we have for the time being, at
least, this as an added responsibility.

Community Recreation a Government Problem

I have felt, as you have, that it was a com-
munity problem, a government problem to a great
extent, to promote as far as possible recreation
in every community.

I had an experience this summer which I en-
joyed very much and which gave me an oppor—
tunity of seeing what the federal government
does in some of its national parks to promote the
kind of recreation which I am happy to think is
not only a joy but a very wonderful experience
for a great many people. I happened to be in
California and I visited three of our national
parks, and it was really quite an extraordinary
experience to find in the Yosemite these enormous
camping spaces for thousands of people.

One evening I drove down to a place where a
great many of the campers had gathered around
an outdoor theatre, and the program was provided
entirely from among the people who were camp-
ing there themselves. Every one who had talent
came and gave of his talent, and it was really
quite thrilling because I don’t suppose that there
was anyone—at least I didn’t hear anyone—who
was remarkable, but it was good, and it was
healthy, and it was fun, and everybody was hav-
ing a good time, and the young ranger who was
introducing the people and who had arranged the
program entered into the spirit of it and they
ended with community singing.

I stood on the outskirts and I became so inter—
ested—I had been taken there and had been told
very carefully to stay on the outskirts because
nobody must know that I was there, so I was
poked behind a tree but I started to walk out from
behind the tree and somebody plucked my sleeve
and said, “You will be recognized,” and I said,
“Oh yes.” and got behind the tree again, but
as they began to sing, I could hardly bear it, be-
cause I love to sing with a big group. I have no
voice, but just the same it is great fun to sing
with a great big group, and I love to hear them
sing, and I feel sure that these big groups felt

as I did!

Campers Find Strength and Happiness

It gave me really quite a thrill, because there
were so many people having a good time together,
and it wasn’t costing a great deal, and it was
creating a spirit of neighborliness and they were
getting close to beautiful nature. I don’t think
that anyone could have been there and not have

368 LIVING AND PREPARATION FOR LIFE THROUGH RECREATION

come away as I did,
with a feeling of
strength and beauty and
happiness, which would
carry you through a
good deal that you
might have to go
through afterwards.
There were one or
two very a m u sing
things which happened
which some of you may
enjoy. There was a
young ranger who went
camping with me up in
the high Sierras who
had been married only
a short time. His wife
had been left down ip
the camp in the valley.
One thing she was very
nervous about; she had
never been out in the
open a great deal and

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT RECEIVES RECREATION
CONGRESS COMMITTEE

"President Roosevelt received a committee from the
Congress this noon. Five or six of us from the Board
of the National Recreation Association called on
him to offer the services and experience of the
Association to the government for whatever uses
could be made of them. The President already ltnew
what Aubre Williams said to us Monday night—
that we ha been of great use to the emergency
relief administrators in the nation. the states, and
the different localities, and to the millions of people
who are suffering from the emptiness of enforced
leisure. We were able to tell him of the special

services which are being rendered to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, to the Office of Education,
to the National Capital Parlt and Planning Com-
mission and to the National Resources Board. and
to say to him that the Association and the recrea-
tion forces of the country were at his disposal for
any additional services within our field.

"The President recalled that he had been a member

of the National Recreation Association and a
sponsor for the Association helping to raise mone
for it long before he was governor of New Yorr
State and was proud of the association. His final
word to us to be repeated to the Congress was,
'You are doing a bully fine iob!'"—lViIIiam

out and there was a
bear right by the steps.
She was perfecdy pet-
rified, but thought, “If
I only had something
to throw!" She had a
book in her hand but
instead of throwing
that. she seized the
clock and threw it.
\V hen her husband
came home, he was a
little annoyed because
they were without a
clock and it was all be-
cause of his advice!

I had a great deal of
sympathy with her be-
cause I felt quite sure
that if any bear had
really appeared. I would
have done the same
thing, and this is what
really happened to me.

she had heard about
the bears. The bears
are comparatively tame,
but they do occasionally come where they smell
food.

The young ranger. who was rather accustomed
to the out-of-doors because he had been on two
trips in Alaska with Father Hubbard, thought she
was very fooiish in her fears. Before he left her
he told her that there was nothing to be afraid
of in the bears but if the bears walked up to the
door, she should just throw something at them
and they would go away. So when I came down
in the valley I asked him if he could bring his
wife to see me. \Vhen she came she told me
this story.

She was sitting alone in the tent when she heard
a funny noise. It sounded in the direction of the
larder. They had a sort of wire box that they
pulled up off the ground. I think that she had
forgotten to pull it up and when she went out—
she didn't go out for a long time; she was too
nervous-she found that a bear had taken every-
thing out of the larder, which made her feel even
more nervous than before.

The next night while she was reading a book
she heard something about her door. The door
was a screen door and was hooked: she looked

Batterworth, Chairman.

They told me that they

had brought a dog into

the camp because after
you were in a camp a day or so bears might come
around. I was lying in a sleeping bag under the
trees and I felt something moving around my
feet and though I was very sleepy. through my
mind went the thought, “Suppose I should sit up
and see a bear!" I had forgotten about the dog.
and I thought, "Oh, well, I won't sit up and see
what it is," and I tried to go to sleep again.

But still the thing seemed to move around my
feet, and so with an effort I sat up, fully expect-
ing to find a bear, and there was the dog, peace-
fully nestling down by my feet. I should have
known that the bear couldn‘t have come into camp
without the dog protesting, so I decided that I
would have behaved very much the same way that
my rauger's wife did if I had really found a bear.

National Parks Arouse Pride

The feeling that you get from seeing what
plcasure and what health people get from the
national parks is one of great thankfulness that
we have such things and that the national gov-
ernment is responsible for them.

I had always known a good deal about what we
had done in New York State but this was my

LIVING AND PREPARATION FOR LIFE THROUGH RECREATION

first real experience with the. national parks, out
west, and I came back with great pride in our
government and pride in us as a people, that we
could have the vision to do things of this kind and
to stand back of the development of something
which I feel is really a great help, physically and
morally and in every way, to the people of our
country.

Now, there is one thing that I have always felt
was particularly important in all of the recreation
work which is done, whether it is done with young
peOple or whether it is done as we are doing it
today more and more with older people. The thing
which impressed me, and impresses me more and
more, is the need of trained leaders. I don’t
believe that we accomplish half so much if we
provide the physical environment for play or for
education, and do not provide adequate leaders.
You can get on with poor equipment if you have
a really imaginative and good person to guide the
people who come there.

That, I think, is one of the things that we need
to bring home to many of our local governments.
\Ve have in this country been very prone in the
past to think that buildings and equipment were
the most important things; they are not. The
people who are going to lead in the use of those
things are really the greatest factor. The other
things are a great help, but I have seen some of
the most interesting programs worked out by
individuals and carried through successfully for
the good of the whole community where there was
very little equipment and where it depended
largely on the initiative of the leader and the
people who were doing the work.

Success Redefined

N ow. I know that in the past it has been felt
that success in life was largely measured by what
you accumulated in a material way, but I think
we are going to change that concept in the next.
few years. I think that success is going to be
measured by the amount of satisfaction that
people get in living their lives. There is still a
feeling, I think, among young people, a great
many of them, that to be a success a man must
make a fortune, but that idea is changing, and
I am more and more interested to find young
peOple coming to me and saying, “We are not
so keen about getting into work which is going
to bring us just material returns. We are keen
about getting into work which we will enjoy
doing, and which at the same time will be a mode

369

of living which will really give us happiness and
contentment, and which we can enjoy as 'we go
along.”

So many people in the past have worked at
things they really didn’t enjoy, and worked early
and late, with practically no recreation, and always
with the idea that some day they would have
enough money laid aside to retire and enjoy life,
and when that day came, I have met many a dis-
appointed man and a disappointed woman, because
when they came to enjoy life they made the dis-
covery that they might have the desire but they
didn’t have the ability to realize the desire.

You can’t turn on your capacity for enjoyment
like a faucet. You have to develop it as you go
through life, and therefore I think we have a new
opportunity, a greater opportunity than ever be-
fore, and perhaps a greater field because we are
really today the means by which a new idea] of
living is to be realized.

So in coming to you this evening, I have really
come—as my husband has already wished you
success—I have come to wish you, myself, great
success in the work which you are doing, and to
express the hope that the work is going to grow,
and that you will be given the vision and the
imagination to meet the opportunities of today and
tomorrow.

The important contribution which our national
parks are making to the enjoyment of vast num-
hers of people was emphasized byf'Presiclent Roose-
velt in a talk at Glacier National Park last August
when he said: “There is nothing so American as
our national parks. The scenery and wild life are
native and the fundamental idea. behind the parks
is native. It is, in brief, that the country belongs
to the people; that what it is and what it is in the
process of making is for the enrichment of the
lives of all of us. Thus the parks stand as the
outward symbol of this great human principle.”

Commenting on the announcement that 1934
was to be emphasized as National Parks Year, he
said: “With all the earnestness at my command,
I express to you the hope that each and every one
of you who can possibly find the means and the
opportunity for so doing will visit our national
parks and use them as they are intended to be
used. They are not for the rich alone. Camping
is free; the sanitation is excellent. You will find
them in every part of the Union. you will find
glorious scenery of every character; you will find
every climate; you will perform the double func-
tion of enjoying much and learning much.”

Recreation As a Socially Usetul
Field oi Employment

By JOHN COLT

v honorable chairman, in giving me such an
M introduction, had to go back to my birth-

place—although I am not ashamed of it—
as if I were relying on the place or time or my
parentage for any advantage. This reminds me
of what I once heard the Honorable \Villiam
Jennings Bryan say.

Many letters had come from young students
asking him what they should do to become orators.
One day he got a letter like this: “Dear Mr.
Bryan, I am a born orator. \Vhat shall I do about
it ?” Mr. Bryan wrote back: “My dear Sir, I sup-
pose that orators have had to be born like the
rest of us, but let me assure you that being born
is the smallest part of your equipment as an
orator.”

I am a poor writer and a worse reader and I
refuse to come down here with an inspiring
audience like this and attempt to read what I
have got written here. So if you will allow me,
I am just going to talk to you t0night about some
of these matters that are close to your hearts.
They have certainly been close to mine for the
year and a half that I have attempted to direct
relief in the great state of New Jersey.

I would venture to suggest that one of the most
startling discoveries of this
depression, certainly start-

work. Now it goes without saying that the hrst
duty of anybody in a relief administration is to
see that every man, woman and child in our com-
munities who is in want and who has not the
proper means of livelihood, shall get relief and
that they shall get enough relief. And by that I
mean enough not only to keep them alive but to
keep them in life and health.

And then it seems to me that our second duty,
which I even visiOn as a corollary of the first, is
to see that those who are not deserving are not
on our rolls. But, ladies and gentlemen, for one
year and a half I have gone from one end of the
state of New Jersey to the other, preaching this
doctrine, that we who are in charge of relief have
a far broader, nobler and more vital task than
the mere feeding and clothing and housing of
these people, important as that is.

Morale Building a Part of Relief

I say to myself and to my associates every day
in the year that we must never forget that we
are dealing with people. and that they are live
people; they are individuals with just the same
longings, appreciatiOns, hopes and fears and dis-
appointments as you and I have. and in all of our

doing we must he sure
that we do something for

ling to the great bulk of
Americans, was the fact
that this problem of leisure
time, which had never
been a problem at all, at
least consciously to most
of us. had suddenly he-
come a vital concern of
really gigantic pr0portions.
Not long after I took con-
trol of the New Jersey
Emergency Relief Admin-
istration, I realized that I
had not one but two or
three prime duties in my

370

Mr. Colt, Chairman of the Administrative
Council of the New Jersey Emergency Relief
Administration, was primarily responsible for
the establishment of a Leisure Time Division
of the Administration. The state-wide pro-
gram which has been developed b the Divi-
sion is administered by a state director of
leisure time activities. Directors have also
been appointed in nineteen counties.

The extent of this program is indicated by
Mr. Colt's statement that the I934 summer
program served 48,000 adults and l60,000
children. 6l5,000 people attended dances and
concerts sponsored during the summer months.

Much of the success of the Leisure Time
Division of the Emergency Relief Administra-
tion in New Jersey is due to Mr. Colt’s in-
spiration and guidance.

t h e m, the individuals
themselves.

And that is the reason
that I have gone around
seeking the aid of an asso-
ciation like yours, going
into the churches and the
schools and fraternal or-
ders and women’s clubs
and the American Legion
in order that you people
may help us in relief to
do this very much more
vital thing, the sustaining
and uphuilding of the

RECREATION AS A SOCIALLY USEFUL FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT 371

morale of those less fortunate
neighbors of ours who are
on the relief rolls. And I
say to you most soberly this
evening, if those of us in
relief throughout this great
country of ours do not in ad-
dition to material sustenance
give these people something
of hope and cheer and guid—
ance, then we have failed
lamentably in the great task
that was laid upon us.

Well, I think that you will all admit that that
was a nice program which I outlined, but I have
to confess that it took me six months to get that
third objective under way, and it wasn’t until
I got in touch with your Mr. Faust, who not only
understood what I was driving at, but better still,
offered and executed one of the most excellent
surveys of the recreation facilities of New Jersey,
and free of charge, and it wasn’t until later that
I got Mrs. Marjorie \Voodlock, also a trained
worker in your Association, to help, that I began
to see any light or any hope.‘ With the help of
those two people, I was able to establish what is
known as the Leisure Time Division of the
Emergency Relief Administration of New Jersey
and it is one of the divisions of which I am most
proud and one that nobody dares do anything
with unless they check with me.

Now, Mr. Chairman, I wish that I had the time
tonight—I had better warn you that when I have
a good time my watch stops—I would like to tell
you in detail about what this Leisure Time
Division which was established by you and which
was aided by you has done.

of you.''

Broad Recreation Program Under E. R. A.

But suffice it to say that we have taken within
our purview all of those objectives and aims
which I have seen recommended and approved in
your prospectus: Education, handicraft, concerts,
theatricals, playgrounds, and all of the better sort
of entertainments. Last winter when we just got
under way, we had forty-one thousand people
enrolled in our winter work and we estimated
that we touched ten times as many or an audience
of four hundred thousand which is almost equal
to our relief burden during the winter. And this
summer in our summer program we had forty-
eight thousand adults and one hundred and sixty
.thousand children or a total of two .hundred and

In his address Mr. Colt paid high tribute

to workers in the recreation movement
and to the National Recreation Associa-
‘ tion: ". . . I want to express to you the
gratitude that l have in my heart for the
high things that this Association has
given us. . . Without your help and your
inspiration' the loan of your people' the
fact that you train people in leisure time
activities' I would still be groping around
to get a start. . . Thanlts to every one

eight thousand. Six hundred
and fifteen thousand people
in the state of New Jersey
last summer attended dances
and concerts sponsored by
the Leisure Time Division
of the E. R. A.

And I would like to men-
tion, also, a thing that Mrs.
Roosevelt touched upon. Last
year in the state of New
Jersey two thousand children
enrolled in junior colleges which were sponsored
and paid for by the Emergency Relief Admin—
istration.

Now, Mr. Chairman, I think you people won’t
wonder why I am glad to come down here tonight;
why I am enthused about you and what you are
doing and why I want to express to you the
gratitude that I have in my heart for the
high things that this Association has given us.
And more than that, I want to encourage you
by saying that we are determined in New Jersey
that the strides that have been made in this leisure
work shall not be lost. At our request, the Gov-
ernor of New Jersey has appointed a state com-
mission on leisure time, and this is entirely
independent of our relief administration, for the
purpose of putting this work on a firm, sure and
a permanent basis.

Well, without your help and your inspiration,
the loan of your people, the fact that you train
people in leisure time activities, I would still be
groping around to get a start; and if you want to
know why I came here this evening, I came here
simply to say, as sincerely and as feelingly as I can
and as I know how, thanks to every one of you.

Recreation, A Fundamental Part of Relief

I notice that I was given a t0pic———I don’t lmow
whether you have read the topic, “Recreation As
a Socially Useful Field of Employment.” I would
say that it is pretty formidable and I always know
from being a chairman, that it is nice to have the
speaker at least touch on the topic assigned him.

Maybe some of you have read a book called
“The Threat of Leisure,” by George Barton
Cutten, President of Colgate University. To me
it is a particularly stimulating and timely volume.
In that book Dr. Cutten reminds us that it was
during his respite from forced labor that primitive
man improved his utensils, decorated his weapons
and made his first rude carvings on the walls

372 RECREATION AS A SOCIALLI" USEFUL FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT

of his cave. It was from the hours and days of
the leisure of the primitive man that our arts, our
sciences, our games, in fact. all of the products
of civilization date, and as Dr. Cutten points out,
civilization is but itself the product of leisure time.

Now as I understand it, you are banded to-

gether and have been working for years to make-

of leisure time what it was originally and always
should be, a creative force. The machine first
produced the need for an organization like yours,
and it seems to me that the depression with its
widespread unemployment has brought your aims
and objects out into bold relief.

And if it is true, as Dr. Cutten says, that civil-
ization was produced by leisure time, then I say
that you pe0ple ought to be in the van of the re-
creation of a new and better civilization in this
country of ours. And if you ask me the question.
“Are you who are employed in this field of
recreation in a useful field?” I would say, “Well,
is a mother in a home of growing children neces-
sary ?” It seems to me that you are not only in a
useful field but you are in an absolutely vital field.

Now it is true that this country has suffered
and still suffers a deep depression but I want you
to know that I feel that this country is also en-
jOying. one of the grandest opportunities that we
have ever experienced. You know, as I have
travelled throughout the length and the breadth
of New Jersey, it has been borne into my heart
that as in the war years there is an outflow of
ncighborliness and loving kindness. Yet I think
that one of the greatest perils that we face today
is that, as right after the end of the war, this
Spirit of brotherly love may evaporate. I think
one of the grandest things a group like this can
do is to see that this spirit is cemented and re-
tained, because I say to you in all soberness that
selfishness and greed and inhumanity in this
Country have got to go or the true America as

we have known it and longed for it to be will be
no more.

Production vs Dignity of Human Life

John Galsworthy once said that the question
before this world was a
question of quantity or
quality. blind production or
dignity of human life.

There must be such a
cultivation or good will that
we will dream and plan and
work so that not only our-

question, "Are you
who are employed in this field of rec-
reation in a useful field?” I would say.
"Well, is a mother in a home of grow-
ing children necessary?" It seems to me
that you are not only in a useful field

but in an absolutely vital field.

If you aslt me the

selves but all others of our fellow citizens will
have a chance to really live. This country still
faces a serious crisis and only a fundamental

\ change in our attitude towards each other will be

of any avail. \Vell, now when is a man or woman
going to do this except in leisure time? \Vhen are
they going to see their problems? \Vhen are they
going to grapple with them, and when is their
transformation of spirit going to take place?

If you ask me if you are in a socially useful
field, my answer is that the future of this country
is in your hands. You know that the later day
historians tell us that this country is on the wane,
and they say that we are on the wane because we
have no new frontiers to conquer, and they assert
that when a country has lost its pioneering spirit,
then decadence sets in.

\Vell, the frontiers that they talk about were
material frontiers. They were the mountains. for-
ests and the raging streams, and the pioneering of
which they speak was a physical and material pio-
neering, but I tell you that I see in this country a
new age of pioneering so much more glorious than
that of the old age that there is no comparison,
and it is a pioneering that is instinct with greater
human riches than anything we have heard of be-
fore. It is a pioneering in human relationships and in
that pioneering the surface has just been scratched.

Coming down on the train I was thrilled to reau
the purposes and the aims of this Association, be-
cause it seemed to me, you, fundamentally, basic-
ally, include the great human needs in the compass
of your program, and if I read your prospectus
accurately, what you propose to do is to teach
people how to live. And what more noble vocation
in life can there be than thatl

Now, having been a professor, the habit never
leaves one of just a few admonitions before the
hour is over and I know that you would be disap-
pointed if I didn't point out some ways in which I
think progress might be more quickly attained.

We are Dealing With Pe0ple

You know, we want to never forget that we
are dealing with pe0ple, and I don’t care what job
anybody in this room has in
this recreation program, you
are dealing with people. A
man once went to Dr. Arnold
at Rugby and said, “Dr.
Arnold, I understand that
you teach mathematics,” to
which the doctor laconic-

RECREATION AS A SOCIALLY USEFUL FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT 373

ally replied, “No, I teach
boys.”

Not long ago a dinner was
given to a man whom I con-
sider to be one of the greatest
educators that Princeton
University has had in the
last twenty-five years, and
yet if you pick up the university catalog and
finger down through the officers of administration
or the faculty, you wouldn’t find his name. Why?
Simply because he was a trainer of the Princeton
team and his name was Keene Fitzpatrick. For
twenty—five years Keene Fitzpatrick was the most
respected man on the Princeton campus and I
consider hint the greatest educator that we had
there because of his character and of his ideals.
his innate sense of modesty, his principle of
sportsmanship, and above all because of his love
for young men. He turned more boys into men
than any man that I know, and so a few months
ago they gave him a dinner, and leaders from all
over this country attended that dinner to testify
to the influence in their lives of that trainer.

Keene Fitzpatrick was only a trainer of the
Princeton team and yet that man envisaged his
job as a maker of men.

Now I know that I don’t need to say what I
am going to say to this audience, and I don’t
think that it fits, but I am going to say it just
the same. I never could see why people go into
the field of working with other people Unless they
love people. And I am going to tell you tonight,
because I say it all over New Jersey, and I am
going to start saying it again—the thing that
grieves me most in emergency relief is the fact
that there are still a number of people who are
supposed to be trained workers that treat these
people on relief as if they were numbers on a
relief roll. ‘

You know the poet says, “The gift without the
giver is bare.” I say to you, “Relief without an
utterly sincere and human loving touch can never
be anything but a hand out.” And so in your work,
the richest gift you have to give these people
that come within your circle is something of your-
self, something of understanding, and sympathy,
and kindness, hope and faith.

Leaders Should Study Constantly

Then may I suggest that if you and I set our-
selves to be teachers of life, we have got to know
something about the matter ourselves, and that

It you and I set ourselves to be teach-
ers of litel we have got to know some;
thing about the matter ourselvesI and
that means that we have got to be con-
stantly studying. It is a vocation that
calls for self-discipline: it calls for self-
sacrifice; and it calls for continual
growth on our part.

means that we have got to
be constantly studying. It is
a vocation that calls for self-
discipline; it calls for self-
sacrifice; and it calls for
continual growth on our

part

Then let me say to you,
“I like this Association,” and I will tell you why.
I never found anybody yet in it that seemed to
have a title. If they have, I have forgotten. They
are all just regular people and they didn’t send
me any engraved cards and they weren’t profes~
sors in the science of living, or the science of
soft ball, or the science of golf or anything else—-
they were just people.

Now not long ago one of the students came to
me and said. “Dr. Henry Van Dyke is going to
deliver his last lecture in English.” I said, “That
is fine. I am delighted you told me.” Dr. Van
Dyke was a dear friend of mine. I had him as a
teacher when I was an undergraduate. I said, “I
am going to go over and hear him deliver his last
lecture to a class of Princeton undergraduates.”
I went over, and wended my way along the
familiar paths and I sat in the same room that I
sat in as an undergraduate.

When the lecture was over, Dr. Van Dyke
closed the little black book that he used to refer
to. He was one of those artists like our chairman
-——he seemed to talk and yet he could look at his
manuscript at the same time and it didn’t impede
his progress as it would mine. And he looked at
these boys in front of him and he said, “I have
got one request to make of you——-when I leave
this room, don’t think of me as a professor of
literature but just think of me as a teacher of
reading.”

You know, the other night somebody asked
about education—you people have come from all
over the country; you have seen cuts in educa-
tional budgets——-and I said, “America has never
suffered from too much education, but we have
spent too much money on buildings and too little
money on teachers.”

This country needs 'some people that are just
willing to be called teachers. We could do with
a lot more teachers and a lot less title-conscious
professors——-and I am not against professors but
I am against title-conscious professors—and I
hope that this recreation association retains just
that same simplicity and charm in this broader field
that you have set for yourselves as you have in

374 RECREATION AS A SOCIALLY USEFUL FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT

the past, because you have touched the popular
imagination—and I know, because I sit in one of
the capitals of the state and the popular imagina-
tion filters through any state capital.

I must say just one word for my friends, the
unemployed in New Jersey, because they are in
the same plight as the unemployed all over the
country. The other evening I was making a speech
and when I got through I foolishly asked for
questions, and there was a man in the back of the
room who got up and said, “Mr. Colt, I would
like to ask you a question.” '

I said, “Go ahead.”

He said, “Would you like to know how to run
relief ?" The audience laughed and so did I and
I said, “Yes, I have been trying to for a year and
a half.”

“\Vell.” he said, “I will tell you how to run
relief. If for every family on relief you had
another family that wasn’t on relief that would
befriend that family, not give them anything but
just befriend them, you would change the com-
plexion of relief in New Jersey over night.”

Relief, A Problem of Neighborliness

And you know, that man is right, because this
relief problem impinges on the life of every single
individual citizen in this country, because in the
last analysis, it is simply a problem of neighbor-
liness. If your friends and my friends and your
neighbors and mine, who through no fault of their
own have been without work, some for months
and others for years, could have that encourage-
ment and that warmth and feeling of still belong-
ing that come so vividly and so
reassuringly from actual human
contact, we could change the'
complexion of relief in this
country over night.

The other day I was reading
one of those beautiful sermons
by Dr. Bowie of New York
City and I came across this
passage. He said, “The new,
the alien, the unimpressive—
do we not instinctively turn our
backs on these?"

As I read those two sentences.
I thought of these relief people.
You know, they are new; they
are not the old poor; they are
not the chronic poor: they are

Buy Christmas Seals

SEASONS GREETINGS
l 9 34

 

Help Fight Tuberculosis

men and women as you and I. And just because
they are new and are like us, paradoxically as
it may sound, they seem to us to be alien. \Ve
don't know what to do with them; we don’t know
how to classify them; we misunderstand them.
And then, if we see them individually, one by
one, after they have been out of work for months
or years, they do seem unimpressive. I want to
tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this country
is facing in this year the most serious crisis that
we have faced and I will tell you why.

For two months before I went away on my
vacation 1 did little else except to meet with
delegations of unemployed from all over the state
of New Jersey and this was the insistent note
that was reiterated to me again and again in those
interviews: “Mr. Colt, we don’t want to become
radicals; we don’t want to join the ranks of the
enemies of organized society; but will you answer
us one question? Why is it that those people are
the only people that seem to have time to talk
with us ?”

\Vell, I could have answered their questions
but I didn’t dare. The reason that the radicals are
the only people who have time to talk with them
is because we are so busy trying to do something
for them that we haven’t got time to help them.

And so I make a plea to you good people to-
night, that wherever you help in this country, in
this relief work, in our leisure time activity, that
you take the time to really let these people talk
to you, and more than that, that you tell us where
we are failing with these people.

Now Mr. Chairman, I have just one wish for
this Association as I close. Like
Mrs. Roosevelt, I hope that you
will always be guided by the
broadest and the loftiest con-
ception of your mission. You
know, too many people in the
United States think of you
simply as an association inter-
ested in physical recreation. But
it seems to me that anybody
reading the tenets of your or-
ganization and ,contelnplating
the moving theme of this Con-
gress. “Life more abundant,"
will be convinced that you have
a much broader function. I
hope to see, and that you may

(Continua! on page 406)

The Christmas Play for Everyone

children and adults together so closely as

Christmas when people of all ages meet in
services, festivals and other occasions traditional
of the season. In many communities the Christ-
mas play has become an important event, fully
as much a part of the season’s activities as St.
Nicholas himself. Christmas plays in which chil-
dren and adults take part seem especially appro-
priate since any audience is at this time bound to
be made up of the entire family.

The play in which the child plays with his
grown-up friends has a very special value for him.
As he interprets the part of a child of his own
age, the little actor finds himself at ease and able
to contribute his own gifts of grace and talent in
the true spirit of the season. He learns to sub—
ordinate himself to the play as a whole so that
the beautiful thought which it expresses may not
be marred by the slightest display of “show off.”
Adults in charge of the production should guard
against unnecessarily featuring the child actors or
exploiting their lovely, natural gifts. The little
players should understand that, no matter how
small their parts, they can bring distinction to the
play through sincere work. The small extra in
the role of a carol singer may contribute great

OF ALL THE holidays there is none that draws

 

beauty to a scene by his apparent absorption in the
character of another child—perhaps a carol singer
of another time, another country—whose person-
ality the player has captured and faithfully re-
produced. ‘

Among the plays for Christmas which fulfill the
threefold purpose of pleasing the adult pla'yers,
giving children opportunities for playing-Within
their own sphere, and delighting an audience com—
posed of all ages is The Toymaker’s Doll. This
play tells the story of old Franz Brock, a toy-
maker who has been beloved of the children of
his village for many years. It has always been
Franz’ custom to throw open his shop on Christ-
mas Eve to the poor children and .to give away
whatever toys remain unsold upon his shelves.
But Franz has made a marvelous invention—he
has learned to make wonderful walking dolls,
dolls that march, waltz and curtsey to delightful
tinkling tunes.

News of his dolls has spread throughout the
land and as the play begins Franz hnds himself
becoming a wealthy man. Sudden riches have
turned the simple toymaker’s head and he has
grown into a harsh, greedy man. He drives the
children from his shop and even refuses to give
a broken toy to a poor woman whose child is ill.
His wife, Minna, and
Hilda, his granddaughter,
beg him to be his old
self, but Franz, lost in
his dreams of becoming
toymaker to the children
of royalty, is impatient
with them. \Vhen a mys-
terious woman comes to
his shop and warns him
that before Christmas
Eve is over he will gladly

A scene from "The Toy-
maker's Doll" as present-
ed by a group of National
Recreation Association
workers. Christmas I933.

375

376 THE CHRISTMAS PLAY FOR EVERYONE

give away everything he owns, he scoffs at the
prophecy. The burgomaster comes for the dolls
he has ordered and Franz gleefully demonstrates
a soldier. a shepherdess and a dancing doll for the
amazed customer.

\Vhen the man has left, Franz sits gloating
over the gold that has been paid him. Suddenly
a messenger in rich attire appears and Franz’
dream comes true—the prince has sent for a doll.
But just as Franz realizes to his dismay that his
last doll has been sold to the burgomaster, Minna’s
screams of terror are heard and Hilda enters, be-
witched into a walking doll. The old couple are
terrified as the messenger, believing Hilda to be a
real doll, insists upon purchasing her. The spell
is lifted when Franz remembers the words of the
mysterious visitor and a group of children, sing-
ing carols as they pass the shop, are summoned in
to receive their toys as in other years. Frantically
Grandfather Franz gives away his toys, and at
last Hilda is released from the spell and joins the
children in their merrymaking. The play ends
with the grateful toymaker’s admission that he
would rather have the happy children about him
than any amount of wealth.

The setting for this play is atiractive and need
not be expensive. Tinsel and light-weight tovs
hung on a plain dark curtain, the toymaker's work
table on which a row of wooden soldiers stand,
with groups of dolls, drums, etc., on the floor, are
sufiicient to create the atmosphere of a toy shop.
A few families can contribute enough properties.
Since the play tells a story laid in another cen-
tury, toys of a distinctly modern nature would be
out of place.

Another simple and lovely play is The ll’ood-
cntter's Christmas. The scene is a simple wood-
land cottage interior. As the play opens, the wood-
cutter's children are eagerly awaiting his return
from the town where they hope he has gone to
bUy their Christmas gifts. They chatter of the
special gifts that each would like to find on Christ-
mas morning and can scarcely listen to their
mother's fears that some harm might befall him
on his journey through the forest.

When he finally enters, they see at once that the
strange bundle in his arms cannot possibly repre-
sent the desired gifts and there is a moment of
bitter disaplmintment. Then the \VOOthllllcf shows
them what he has. It is a baby that he has found
deserted in the forest. lle asks his children to
accept it instead of the gifts which he is too poor
to provide. The children rally and soon lose their

disappointment in planning to share their own
scant belongings with the little one. As the scene
ends they are all happy in making their little,
gracious sacrihces.

The next morning when the children come to
greet the baby they hnd him gone. But the rude
cradle where he lay is hlled to overfiowing with
all the gifts of which they had dreamed. As the
awed family gather about it, they realize that the
stranger they had sheltered was the Christ Child
and that their loving care has been rewarded by

the miraculous gifts.

The simple scene may be set against a plain
curtain with only a few pieces of rude furniture.
Bright peasant costumes and the use of colored
lights add to the attractiveness of the play which,
in its utter simplicity, carries the Christmas mes-

sage effectively and beautifully.

There are manyother charming Christmas plays
for children and adults to give together. If the
play is to be used as part of a church service, the

following are suggested as especially appropriate
for this purpose:
No Room at the Inn by Esther Olson. Two men, one

woman, one child. A lamp made by a little girl of
Bethlehem lights the stable where the Christ Child lies.
Walter H. Baker Company, 178 Tremont Street, Boston,

Mass. .35¢.

The Transfiguration of the Gifts by Frances Cavanah.
Eight adults, five ehildren, a ehoir. An imaginative in-
terpretation of the Christmas story, where the humble
gifts of little children are turned to beauty because of
their love for the Christ Child. The “'omans Press, 600
Lexington Avenue, New York City. 50¢.

The Spirit of Christmas by Graee Craig. Nine adults.
seven children. When the Christmas Spirit appears, boys
and girls learn the real meaning of the story they have
heard many times. Tableaux of the wise men, the
shepherds and the Nativity. “'omans Press. 50¢.
Royalty $2.00.

If the occasion is solely one of entertainment
but if some spiritual significance is desired, the
following titles provide interesting material. The
first two plays have already been described.

The Toymaker’s Doll by Marion liolbrook. Six adults,
four children and extras. The Dramatic Publishing Com-
pany. 59 East Van Buren Street. Chicago. 35¢.

The ll’oodentter’s Christmas by Linwood Taft. Two
adults, five children. Three short acts. The Eldridge
Entertainment llouse, Franklin. Ohio. 25¢.

Yuletide ll’ahes. i'Jetide Breaks by Dorothy Gladys
Spicer. A Christmas revel in whieh eleven nationalities
are represented. This is designed to afford a full evening's
entertainment. In addition to the episodes dealing directly
with the individual national groups, there is a program

(Continued on page 408)

Summaries of

Discussion Group Meetings at

the

Recreation Congress

Eight minute reports of the section meetings at the Recreation
Congress were presented to the entire group each day in order
that all the delegates might have the benefit of the information
presented at and the ideas developed in these discussion
meetings. As at previous Congresses. these summary reports
were greatly appreciated and proved a most valuable feature.

Problems in Recreation Program Building in the
Creative Arts and Crafts

BY MRS. EUGENE MEYER

Chairman, chsfchcsler County Recreation Commission
W hire Plains, N ew York

crafts was an excellent one. The discussions

were almost all short, constructive and to the
point. It was evident that the people who are
working in this field had come to the conference
well prepared.

One very interesting point of debate centered
on the use of materials. Some of the members
complained that inadequate budgets made it im-
possible for them to purchase good materials and
therefore the progress of an art program was
impeded. At once a group of workers who came
mostly from the country insisted that line, honest
materials, native materials, were always at hand
for anyone who had the ingenuity to appreciate
them. They pointed out that clay could always
be found for modeling, that willow could be used
for basketry, that factory remnants made excel-
lent hooked rugs, that reeds could be made into
flutes, and so on. In other words. any natural
material is usually beautiful and not the materials
but the way in which they are used is the im—
portant point. Skill, in short, is more important
in the development of an art program than a
budget.

It was the consensus of the meeting that the
thing taught is not as important as the method of
teaching. Unless the teaching methods are right.
the pupils will be more inhibited and stultined
than developed. Why is there in America such a

I AM glad to report that the meeting on arts and

widespread contempt for the arts? For those of
us who come from the average, typical American
small town or rural community must admit that
most of our citizens go their way through life
without having seen or heard a genuine work of
artistic genius and without caring very much
whether they do or not. Why is this so? Chiefly
because our early training in the public schools
was such that the arts and crafts were made to
seem negligible. What is worse, many of us can
remember attempts at the teaching of music or
drawing which only increased our contempt for
those modes of expression. Our reading, writing
and arithmetic were in the hands of trained people
whose knowledge we instinctively respected but
such teaching in the arts as was given us was so
banal, so obviously amateurish in method and
purpose that our contempt for these lessons was
just as instinctively transferred to the arts
themselves.

Thus by and large we Americans are not only
an uncultured people; we are in vast numbers
definitely anti-cultural, if by culture we imply
respect and appreciation of the highest efforts
of the human mind.

Nevertheless many of our citizens carry about
with them a secret yearning for things spiritual,
and for a greater understanding of the beauty and
significance of the arts. These people in vast
numbers can be tempted to express in pottery,
in painting, or in the lesser crafts, some of the
emotional forces with which life cannot fail to
endow them.

Do you ever take time to read the personal
columns in our newspapers or even in our most

377

378 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

high-brow literary magazines? \Vhat is the burden
of these letters? “I am lonely. What shall I do ?”
These people usually think that they are in need
of a vast army of friends. \Vhat they really need
is to get acquainted with themselves. The person
who has once put forth every effort of which he
is capable in helping to produce a play or dance,
in singing with many others some fine choral
work, or playing an instrument either by himself
or in groups can never again feel entirely lonely.

The opportunity which the recreation movement
has in the development of a love of the arts is
boundless. It is, indeed, more than an Opportunity.
It is a challenge and a responsibility which we
cannot avoid.

As I spoke harshly of the kind of art teaching
which has been done in the public schools, I
should add that the improvement in art instruc-
tion. particularly in the public schools of the big
cities, has been very marked. The most modern
of the private schools have contributed a consider—
able influence and our colleges have also widened
their curriculums in this respect. \\’hat is probably
the most promising omen is the fact that manv
informal groups have sprung up throughout the
country who are practicing the arts for the sheer
love of it without any professional ambitions or
purposes.

But let me emphasize once more the importance
of teaching methods in the arts. The whole object
of such endeavors is to free the intuitive forces
of the individual to build up the imagination, as
Lorado Taft said, and never to discourage him by
demanding an impossible degree of skill. At the
same time the teacher's influence must be all on
the side of honesty and sincerity, eliminating
especially all the meretricious short cuts that
produce a showy but superficial effect. There
must be no undue emphasis on the merit of the
product except as it is related to the progress of
the individual worker. \Vhether one of the child-
ren models an awkward chicken or one of the
advanced pupils turns out a genuine work of art.
the joy involved is exactly the same in quality
and in intensity and it is this creative joy which is
the essential factor.

In other words. whether people paint well or
badly does not matter. What matters is the effect
of creative effort upon the individual. The spirit
needs exercise just as definitely as the muscles.
The recreation movement. if it is to be what its
name implies, tnust afford just as many oppor-

tunities for the refreshment of the mind and the
spirit as for the development of the body.
In \Vestchester we emphasize the arts because

. the athletic and play side of the program takes

care of itself. The organization of an outdoor
program is a routine matter by this time with all
of us. But the recreational approach to the arts
has a big contribution to make to the whole
problem of education. If all people, regardless of
talent, are encouraged to express themselves freely
whether in painting, sculpture, or in craftmanship
of some sort, they will find a. new integration, a
new freedom. a new respect for self such as
comprise the very foundation of human happiness.

We are not trying to produce great works of
art, though we believe that even these will emerge
from such a movement. \\'e are trying to make
good citizens who will find their lives enriched
through creative effort and through an apprecia-
tion of what others have produced in the cultural
field. With such an object in view, the pursuit of
the arts is just as important and probably more
important as a leisure time pursuit than either
sports or games.

What Special Service Can the Recreation Movement
Render to Youth Just Graduating from High

School and College Who Are Unable
To Find Employment?

Bv KENNETH HOLLAND

New England Supervisor of Education in C. C. C.
Boston, .‘lIass.

movement could call the attention of the people

of the United States to the vast extent of this
problem. The number of these young graduates
are many—last June approximately a million
young pe0ple graduated from high schools and
approximately a hundred and forty thousand
graduated front colleges and universities. In the
last four years there were approximately four
million seven hundred thousand of these young
graduates. Thousands of these young people of
that age have left college and joined the ranks of
the unemployed—that sea of despair.

We must not only consider the conditions of
these young people today but we must consider
what their conditions will be ten or fifteen years
from today. It is in these graduates that the
United States has made the greatest investment.
Society has made the greatest sacrifice for these
young people and we must help preserve them
in this time of crisis.

Ix the first place, we decided that the recreation

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 379

Consequently, we decided that while the leisure
time activities are important for these young
people, the first thing of importance is the obtain-
ing of a job. In other words, that while we can
tide over these young people in this time of crisis
we must call the attention of the people of the
United States to the fact that some provision must
be made whereby these young people can be ab-
sorbed into the work-a—day world.

The recreation movement must not seem to
teach these young people that their life is to be
play; it must not seem to drug these young people
into satisfaction; the recreation movement should
stimulate the thought process as well as their
muscles and creative powers. It can also be of
great assistance in providing activities which will
tide them over this time of depression, at the same
time teaching them ways of using their leisure
time after they are absorbed into the normal
work-a-day world.

In the opinion of some of the people of this
group, it was not the recreation movement’s place
to set up discussion grOUps so that these young
people could better understand our general social
and economic program. However, at least we
agreed that if it was not the responsibility of the
recreation movement to set up such discussion
groups, recreation leaders should be sympathetic-
ally aware of the need for these young people to
discuss the current social and economic problems
so that they would better understand what changes
must be made. I

In the third place, we decided that if we are to
develop the program for these young people we
must recognize that they know what they want,
and that it is necessary and desirable in setting
up any kind of a program to make them feel that
they are helping to organize this program. In
Missouri a plan had been set up without consult-
ing the people whom it was to help and it fell apart
as soon as the C.W.A. fund was withdrawn. The
programs were unable to
continue after this support
was withdrawn.

\Ve believe that the inter-
ests of these youths will be
wide and varied and that any
program set up for them
should provide opportunities
to start anywhere in the
whole great land of leisure

I'This great body of youth is intrusted
to us. It is our responsibility. We dare
not break our contract with it. We dare
not leave it untrained for what it has 0
to face. These boys and girls will be the recreation
men and women. Nothing can possibly must assist these
prevent their influence from molding
the future of the country. They are
placed in our hands for safe keeping."
, —— Newton D. Bakér, Chairman,
time. Mobilization for Human Needs.

Some of the examples cited were very interest-
ing, one in particular of the park department in
Chicago which organized a model motor boat
making program for young fellows between the
ages of sixteen and twenty-one; they are now
making complicated and successful tiny engines
and are developing an interest in the whole process
which may eventually develop into occupations
for them. In other words, they may become so
interested in this program and so enlightened that
they can join the ranks of those like Dr. Finley
who spend their work time in that field in which
they are most interested.

In the fourth place, this group decided that any
movement set up for young people should enlist
those young people in leadership campaigns. These
are the future leaders of the United States. They
are the young people we have made the greatest
sacrince for and we must give them an oppor—
tunity to develop their own leaders.

Practice shows that while young people wish
to participate in the organization of these activi-
ties they desire and welcome suggestions and help
from adults of more experience. It was also
pointed out that in picking out the adult com—
mittee, care should be given to select the
outstanding leaders of the community. These
organizations should grow out of the local
community.

In the hfth place, we believe that initiative and
imagination will discover the facilities necessary
for the conduct of these leisure time activities.

In the sixth place, we decided that while recrea-
tion must meet this question, at the same time
there must be a change in our educational instruc-
tion which will insure the next generation better
plans and training for their leisure. Dr. Finley
said on Monday night that education should teach
the righteousness of leisure. The recreation move-
ment must assist in education
so that it will provide for the
constant practice'of the con-
structive use of leisure time.

We did decide finally that

movement
young
people, because as Disraeli
has said, “The youth of the
world are the trUStees of
posterity.”

380 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP .lIEETINCS

What Can Be Done to Secure A Better
Understanding of the National and
Local Recreation Movement?

Bv CURTIS P. FIELDS

Chairman, Recreation Board, Greenwich, Connecticut

relations. \Vhether we wish it or not, we

must give careful heed to the type and
quality of our publicity. Whether our work is
supported by voluntary contributions or from tax
funds, we are obliged to tell what we are doing
with the mOney other people provide us. If we
don't tell our story, our playground and other
facilities will not be adequately used and the
funds may be cut off at any time; if we tell it
crudely, carelessly, people will pass our publicity
by with a shrug and with scarcely veiled irrita-
tion at having their time and money wasted.

Reese-«ms mus! concern itself with public

Our story may be told in many ways but most
often the medium is the printed word. Here the
infant is right hack on our own doorstep. for we
seldom can depend upon others. However
friendly our relations with our local press, how-
ever ready they are to cooperate with us-—for the
most effective material, month after month. we
must look to our own creative efforts. \V e who
know most about what we are doing, we, our-
selves, must tell our own story. The question,
then. is -—how?

The publicity problem of a recreation move-
ment, whether local or national, may be summed
up in the phrase. “Getting it across the footlights."

It is essentially a question of dramatization.
\Ve must pick out the really important highlights
and prescnt them in a manner that will appeal—
not to ourselves—hut to our readers; we must
present them picturesquely. briefly. tersely.

Of course. in preparing our pnblicity we are not
attempting to write literary masterpieces that will
live for generations: hut the fundamental ques-
tion of catching and holding the reader's interest
is the same. Imagine what “T he Merchant of
Venice" would have been like had Shakespeare
Spent much time reporting how often Shylock
visited the Rialto each week or what Portia spent
for her Sunday dinner. In the hands of an artist
these things could he made interesting. to he sure.
hut they were not the highlights. liar better
material was at hand.

Playing, like eating and sleeping. is a funda-
mental instinct; but in print it is likely to sound

dull and uninteresting unless it is treated with
skill.

Yet, what an opportunity the subject affords!
Things that concern children, adolescents and
youths make the strongest kind of appeal to
adults. \\’e have evidence of that fact all around
us in costly advertising designed to sell things to
adults. Make no mistake about it: manufacturers
and distributors would not spend their hard-
earned money on that kind of advertising unless
they were sure it paid its freight.

And that same appeal is one of our chief
stocks-in-trade. Our work is largely concerned
with children and adolescents. There is a wealth
of material, too. in what we are doing!Ir to help
conserve morale among adults. But in the hurry
and press of everyday life we are likely—unless
we guard against the temptation—to overlook
the rich human interest of our recreation work
and to let our publicity become uninspired. dull,
drab. full of commonplaces and read only by
those of us who are already fully persuaded.

Y es. it is simply a question of selection and of
dramatization. but dramatization is not simple.
It requires the hardest kind of work—and that
is, constructive thinking. But it pays generous
dividends. This does not imply melodrama. or
undignified horse-play. It doesn‘t mean fancy or
artificial writing. or sentimentalism; it doesn't
suggest using such banalities as “tiny tots.” or
"palpitating hearts." The dramatic touch should
he like the works of a watch. You don't see them
unless you scarch for them, but they make the

watch go: they make the watch worth looking at.

A good publicity article tells the whole story
in the first sentence or two, but does it in such
a manner that the reader keeps on because his
intcrest has been aroused. In these days of head-
line readers who skim the news in hasty glances.
a two fold test is:

First. did that sentence I just wrote make the
reader want to know what follows?

Second, if he stops with that sentence, have I
got my story across?

This has been justly called a picture age. But
how many of us have stopped to consider how
unspeakahly dull a picture can he? By all means
let us use pictures as freely as may he in telling
our story. but as we love our work and its future
let us select carefully the pictures we inflict upon
a long-suffering public. The mere fact of being
pictures does not and cannot make them appealing.

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 381

There are many other
ways, too, of telling our
story besides the printed
word and pictures. Personal
talks before large and small
groups are one of the most
effective of all—with the big
qualification in capital letters
that they must be interesting.
Spare your community long
and dull speeches, flll their
ears with interesting stories
of your work, and they will
rise up to call you blessed,
and eventually vote you larger appropriations.

In every community there may be men and
women with speeches to make from time to time,
who will be grateful for a little help in the way
of living, dramatic material about recreational
work and activities. Each member of your board
and of your advisory committee should be a sort
of walking delegate, ready at the drop of a hat
to talk interestingly, sincerely and convincingly
about the work, its accomplishments, and its op-
portunities.

Let’s not make the mistake of believing that
only prominent pcople can provide us with news.
From the humblest home in your community may
come a story that will set your whole city ablaze
with interest in your work and in what you are
trying to do.

“Seeing is believing,” says an old adage. En—
courage your City Fathers to visit your activities.
Try to get the leaders of each section of the com-
munity to investigate for themselves. Persuade
the chronic kicker to serve as chairman of one
of your big evening events, and he will soon be a
booster. Organized “Come and See Trips” are
grand institutions—a regular feature in some
communities.

I.

What Men and Women Want To Do

In Their Free Time

BY SIDNEY TELLER
Executive Director, Irene Kaufman» Settiement,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

HE discussion of “What Men and Women
Want to Do in Their Free Time” resulted in
a sort of testimonial meeting. The first
speakcr was Mr. Robert B. Hudson of Radburn,
New Jersey, who stated that surveys of his town
showed that ninety-seven per cent of the adults

"People may for a time spend their new
and perhaps unwelcome leisure in sleep. the
at the movies or in driving back and
forth on the crowded highways. catching
glimpses of the countryside between the
billboards. It is inconceivable, however,
that these forms of entertainment will
long satisfy our population. They will
demand and are demanding some ltind
of occupation which will assist them to
a more varied. stimulating. and import-
ant brand of activity." -- Robert M.
Hutchins, President. University of Chi-
cago. in address before the National
Education Association. June. I934.

in his town participated in
recreation programs.
Fifty-five per cent of the
men insisted on physical rec-
reation activities ; the greatesr
number of women were in
or wantcd educational activi-
ties. The other general
groups of activities were
called citizenship and relig—
ious activities.

He said that the success
of the program was due to
the fact that it was not im—
posed but was what the people desired or ex-'
pressed, and also to the fact leadership was
supplied no matter how 'small the group was. He
stated also that the program was flexible and did
not have to be carried through the entire season.
Adults will do what other adults do, either from
a sense of duty, inspiration or imitation. He said,
"Let small groups start; others will join.”

The next speaker was Miss Jeanne Barnes of
Morgantown, ’West Virginia, who presented a
rural point of view. She stated that rural West
Virginia in the vicinity of ‘Morgantown has :1
background of mining and agriculture and the
people living there are very socially 'minded.
They have much native music and the outstanding
events were fall and spring festivals in which
persons from six years to eighty-six compete.
They have family reunions, which are big affairs
and the county fairs are the outstanding com-
munity evcnts. They have to light church opposi—
tion to having square dances in the school build-
ings, especially if they are in the vicinity of a
cemetery.

She stated that the farmers enjoy most the
county fairs where the men and women can ex—
hibit products from the farm and their handcraft.
The miners like best safety demonstrations and
demonstrations of first aid teams in local and
county competition. As to entertainments, local
talent draws better crowds then imported talent
from the city. Play days in various parts of the
county are increasing the activities and also the
number of participants.

The next speaker was I. J. Syme of Hamilton,
Ontario, which is an industrial city of one hundred
and sixty-five thousand people. He stated that
athletics are the greatest interest of both single
men and women in their free time. Single men

382 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

like soccer especially. In one year participation
in this sport increased from eighteen persons to
more than five hundred. Married people want
self-governed "clubs" where they can develop
their own programs, and find hidden talent within
their own group.

He asked us the question: “What would you
do and what would your staffs do in your own
leisure or free time?”

The next speaker, George A. Lundberg of New
York City, reported on a study of \Vestchester
Coumy. He said that what people do with their
leisure depends on the conditions Under which
they live. \Vhat they would like to do depends on
'money and time.

In the study, members of Parent Teacher
Associations were asked' the question, “If you
had $1000 what would you do ?” Fifty-three per
cent of those who replied would engage in more
outdoor sports, twenty-six per cent in more com-
mercial entertainment and ten per cent would
engage in travel. The rest were scattered. A
second question asked this group was, “If you had
two hours more a day of free time, what would
you do with it ?” The result was that forty per
cent-said they would spend it in reading; twenty-
two per cent would spend it in sports and twenty-
six per cent in creative activities. Mr. Lundberg
suggested that we try these questions on ourselves.

In his opinion most people do not have clearly
formulated ideas as to what they would like to
do. They have cravings, feelings, tensions but
not definite plans. Leaders should lead. There is
too much letting people do what they think that
they want to do which is bad for the individual
and the group. Most people not only need to be
told or directed but they want to be told. The
recreation leader or department should determine
what is desirable recreation or use of leisure time.
and then lead the people into these activities.

The next speaker, “1. Duncan Russell of
Boston, referred to the opinion that there is a
danger in more leisure since more and more leisure
makes for less and less energy. This theory or
tendency should be seriously considered and
fought against. In his opinion adults want to be
treated as adults. \Ve must follow a course be-
tween the paternalistic which wants to make use
of every minute of free time the way we want it
used and the other extreme that what people do
is none of our business.

I would like to take this opportunity of calling

your attention to a study which the National
Recreation Association has made, the title of
which is “The Leisure Hours of Five Thousand
People.” The outstanding facts which the study
revealed may be briefly summarized as follows:

I. The home is the center for a large and in-
creasing percentage of leisure time activity for
large numbers of people.

2. The average number of activities taken part
in outside the home, especially often, is relatively
small and did not increase during the past year.

3. To a considerable degree leisure time activity
at the present time is largely determined by low
cost and availability rather than by the real desires
of the people.

4. The expressed desires of a large number of
individuals can be realized only as opportunities
are made available through community provision
for them.

5. The limited evidence available indicates that
people working comparatively short hours but
with reasonable security are utilizing their leisure
increasingly in a wider range of varied activities
than are people of any other employment status.

6. Age, sex and marital status are factors
which have a considerable and varying influence
upon people's leisure time activities and desires.

NOTE: Copies of “The Leisure Hours of 5,000
People” are available from the Association,
price $1.00.

Keeping Alive Through Drama

Bv DR. MILTON SMITH

Teachers College, Columbia University
New York, N. Y.

m: discussion of Mr subject. under the inspir-
Ting and firm guidance of our chairman,

Clarence A. Perry of the Russell Sage Found-
ation, was most enthusiastic and helpful. The
suggested questions in the program were quite
rigorously and wisely adhered to and most of
them seemed to have been answered to the satis-
faction of the majority of us.

The first question, whether or not amateur
drama has suffered dUring the depression, was
first considered and the general impression seemed
to be that while it may have suffered, it has not
decreased. In fact, the depression, with its result-
ing idleness and enforced leisure and mental
slump, has seemed to increase the demands.
Amateur dramatics have a real morale sustaining

SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 383

value. Evidence to this effect was offered by Mrs.
Elizabeth Peeples of Washington, our first
speaker, and by delegates from many cities and
villages throughout the country. There seem to be
hundreds or thousands of performers and thous—
ands or tens of thousands of auditors. Dramatics
have been and are being used widely by welfare
bureaus, recreation departments, playgrounds,
church and school centers, and so on.

Our second speaker, Miss Ruth Swezey of
Wilkes-Barre, advocated the drama tournament
as a method of bringing new groups into the
movement and as a possibility of encouragement
for less well-organized groups. It seemed to be a
general opinion that tournaments have a possibility
of great publicity value, offer opportunities for
the development of leadership and give chances
for the expression of interests that might other-
wise not exist. Tournaments are sometimes held
in towns, sometimes in rural communities, or
sometimes they may cover the entire state. The
point was made by several delegates that the
tournament was only a means to an end, to interest
more and more people in drama as a means of
recreation. The point was several times made that
we make the attempt to get beyond tournaments.
dropping when possible the sometimes objection—
able contest and award elements, and holding
festivals instead, festivals where people who love
the theatre and the practice of it may come to-
gether to show each other what they have done,
without competition, and to compare notes, to
demonstrate, to study, and to increase their tech—
nical information and profi-

the next question we considered, depended on
both the instructor and the pupils, but the point
was made by him and by others that the true
value of these short dramatic institutes was rarely
perceptible immediately, but that the result of
the seed thus sown, if the seed is good and the
ground not too barren—and perhaps slightly
watered by the rains of favorable chance—often
sprang up in good dramatic fruit months, or even
years, later.

At this point, as always, the question of royalty
suddenly thrust its ugly head on the scene, and
was briefly discussed—probably too briefly for
those to whom it is still a pain, and at too great
length for those to whom it has become a bore.
Since nothing can or perhaps should be done
about it, the obvious answer seems to be either
to find plays on which royalty is not demanded or
to work out some method of paying it. Mr.
Kirkham of Salt Lake City, however, made a sug-
gestion, new to many of us, of the possibility of
paying royalty wholesale or buying the rights to
certain plays for a certain definite group for a
stated period of time. Perhaps this possibility
should be discussed, especially in organizations
covering wide territories, although there are
obvious objections to such a scheme in many
situations.

Miss Hester Proctor of San Francisco, in
introducing the discussion on children’s plays,
suggested that there should probably be no formal
plays before the age of 10 or 12 and that children’s
plays should not be too elaborately costumed. The

discussion on this point as to

ciency. Festivals of this sort
have already replaced tourna-
ments in Philadelphia, in
Westchester County, New
York, and in other places.
The point was several times
emphasized that tournaments
have greatest value for the
participants only when they
lead on to further study and
efficiency, and the implica-
tion seemed to be clear that
they may be bad if they result
in disappointment or a feel-
ing of inferiority.

L. R. Harrill of Raleigh,
North Carolina, thought that
the value of short institutes,

An unusually colorful drama exhibit at-
tracted much attention and comment at
the Congress this year. Examples of
theatre craft on display were a collec-
tion of masks made by Charles Wells
of the National Recreation Association
and a model stage' the work of George
H. Williams of the Theatre Work Shop
of the Works Division, Department of
Public Welfare, New York City. The
stage model was a miniature replica of
a set used in the production of
"Wappin' Worf" which was produced
on a movable stage in New York City
parks last summer. The use of colored
ights thrown on the inexpensive mate-
rials which draped the booth was a
practical as well as an arresting feature
of the exhibit. Collections of plays
and production books, conveniently ar-
ranged, were in continual use through-
out the Congress.

the age of beginning formaI
dramatic work with children
seemed to arouse much inter-
est and some heat. It seems
to me that perhaps some of
the difficulty resulted from a
lack of definition, and a re-
sulting confusion between
playing and the presenting of
plays. The formal presenting
of a play demands a maturity
—the ability to read, a cer-
tain recognition of form, and
so forth, which does not
occur until children are 10
or 12, but they are certainly
never too young to play.
With the beginning of

384 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

formal dramatics, which is marked, I believe, by
the study of a definite, previously written script,
in the attempt to bring it to life on the stage—-
whether that stage be one end of a school room,
or a Ford truck, or a Broadway playhouse—we
are beginning to practice the art of the theatre;
and it is this great eternal art with its synthesis
of all the other arts and crafts—such as literary
composition, acting, directing, designing, painting,
dressmaking, carpentry—that gives the study and
practice of the theatre such widespread interest
and that makes many of us so enthusiastic about
it as an instrument of culture and recreation.

In conclusion, if a summarizer may summarize
his summary, the underlying note of our meeting
was h0pefulness and progress, and it was very
inspiring to learn of the many interesting ways
the theatre is being used.

lt I Had Full Power to Represent the People of the
City in Which I Live and a Measure of
Financial Freedom in Helping Them
Toward Abundant Living What
Would I Do?

Bv DAVID CUSHMAN COYLE

Consulting Engineer

New York, N. Y.

- wo phases of the subject were discussed in
Tthe meeting; one relating to technique, the
other to attitudes. It appears that the subject
was understood to mean, “\Vhat would I do if I
had a chance ?”

Apparently there was general agreement that
the leaders of recreation should call in, so far as
they can, the advice and the help of the people
themselves, particularly the unemployed--the
people who are going to be re-created—to find
out by surveys what they are now doing, what
kinds of things they are attempting to do with
such facilities as there are, what are their desires
in regard to opportunities for recreational and
educational activities of all kinds.

From a survey you can get an idea of what the
tastes of the people are, and from the people—
now that there are so many unemployed, and so
many of them have nothing to occupy their minds
with except worry—you can get a considerable
number of leaders who are capable of doing large
quantities of work, and for nothing.

The people bring fOrward leadership if they
are given an opportunity. All they need then is a

certain amount of facilities and supervision to
see to it that the kinds of things they want to do
are done under such conditions as bring about an
improvement in their cultural level—improvement
in their opportunities; that the pe0ple who come
up for leadership shall be coordinated; that per-
sonal and organizational jealousies shall be
smoothed out, so far as possible, and the whole
movement allowed to go ahead without unneces-
sary confusion.

The point was brought out that the young people
of the community are the people who hold the
future, and that there are ten millions of them
who are neither in college nor employed—who
have nothing to do—who can be gotten to do com-
munity work as volunteers to help clean up the
town.

So far as the technique of handling recreation
was concerned, all that this topic led the people
into was a general statement of how they would
like to run a recreation program. Very little was
contributed here that I imagine hasn’t been said in
your other meetings. but this question about the
young people brought up some important points.

Two young men who were present were asked
to make some remarks. One of them said that he
approved of the idea of asking the people what
kind of things they want and he believed that the
ERA. relief should be continued so that the pro-
grams could be carried on without being obliged
to stop.

The other stated that he had attended many of
the meetings and he expressed himself as fol-
lows: “The trouble with the people in this con-
ference is that you are all old-fashioned. You
make plans for recreation as you hoped to do it
under the old regime—you make plans for restor-
ation under the old regime, in which you hope
you will be able to do better than you did before,
and there isn’t going to be any old regime any
more.” He suggested that you let the young people
plan their own recreation on a f our-point program
that he had in mind, education, recreation, recrea-
tional adjustments, and self -help in the method of
finding work. (That struck me a little cold because
it is going a bit far to say “four” points. Some
one else would have a different number.) And he
said you could get it at a minimum of cost.

Now I take the liberty of making a few re-
marks about the comments of this young man.
In the first place, I like young people and I have
a couple of them of my own. I like their point of

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 385

view and I like this fellow,
and I want to state that.
And yet he “gummed the
whole works” when he said
you can get it at a minimum

In summing up, the
chairman mentioned several
points that were underlying
the kind of things that had
been said and the misunder—
standings that had been
brought out. He said that
we can’t operate this country
at all until we have a new
economic order in which
we must have a rising standard of living. We
must have security for old age; we must en—
courage science and invention to release people,
not in order to create unemployment, but to create
an opportunity to transfer people to the occupa-
tions that make civilization, to jobs in which they
can operate to improve it— not only the recrea—
tional but all the cultural opportunities of the
people—and be paid for doing it.

It may be inspiring to you to feel that there
are ten million young people full of idealism in
this country who can be gotten inspired to go
forward. As somebody said, “They write to
Washington and ask, ‘How can we marry if we
haven’t any job?’ ” And we can inspire them to go
out and get jobs and improve the community as
volunteers, in helping to clean up the dark spots
and to move forward the thing which we have
turned over to them in such a mess.

Now, there are some things which onght to be
said about it. It is inspiring to think of ten million
young people living on public service, love and
idealism and fresh air, but it is ridiculous to con—
sider that young people ought to be asked to live
on love and enthusiasm and idealism, without
money. How are they going to marry if they
haven’t any money?

Moreover it is ridiculous to' consider that the
community should attempt to operate on a
minimum cost of operation. It is all right, I know,
when you do it with your boards. You have got to
talk as though you thought it were desirable to
run on an economical basis. As Galsworthy once
said, “The only safe place for the human tongue
is in the cheek,” but you realize that it' is ridicul-
ous to consider that low cost is a measure of the

The consensus of opinion expressed at the
Congress meeting at which lay boards were We have got to Spend
discussed coincides with that of the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation
Association which several years ago voted
unanimously that "in general' other condi-
cost. tions being equall it is the policy of the
Association to advise cities to provide for
some form of recreation board or committee
made up of members serving without pay;
that recreation in itself is of such vital
importanceI so distinct a phase of human
life, that like education it needs in each
community a group of thoughtful, able rep-
resentative laymen who shall follow closely
the work of the executive staff and advise
with reference to policies to be followed."

advisability of a program.

money for security; we
have got to spend money
for making decent civiliza-
tion in this country. The
engineers have discovered
Aladdin’s lamp, and if you
are afraid to spend the
money that is necessary to
do the things that ought to
be done, the lamp won’t
work.

The young people some
day are going to hold the
future in their hands, but
don’t let us get inspired with the grand idea of
turning it over to the young people. We are
responsible, and no others, for the next ten years.
We will make or break this civilization. We will
turn it over to these young people ten years from
now going strong and headed for a new outburst
of culture or we will turn it over to them in an
unholy mess. It is our responsibility and no others.
Ten years from now it will be their responsibility
—right now it is ours, and nobody else’s!

What Are the Gains. It Any' in Having Special Lay
Boards or Commissions in City Governments
Charged with Responsibility for Working
on the Special Problems of SchoolsI
ParksI Recreation?

BY PETER DOWDELL

Chairman, Recreation Commission
Scranton, Pa.

HE majority of recreation systems throughout
Tthe country are operated under three different

types of boards or commissions: First is the
lay board that is purely advisory; it has no power
to tax nor to employ but its activities make friends
for recreation and it is useful. Second is the lay
board with administrative powers, using approp-
riated funds; this type has the power to determine
policies and to emp10y personnel—sometimes with
the approval of the city officials. Boards with
rotating terms of office are as a general rule more
effective and a greater power to the community.
Third is the legal board with power to levy taxes,
to -hire and “fire” personnel and to determine

.5231. St MMARIBS UP DISL‘LSSION UROLP MEETINGS

 

Delegates to Twentieth National Recreation Congress

,oliiies. This type of board is generally found
ultert schools are responsible for the recreation
program of the Community.

In th( general discussion, it was brought out
that with the third t}1)t of board, recreation was
"tsually se 'nndary and in many places recreation
.as SRCI‘Iiith when tax funds were low. The
:onsensus if opinion was that the second type of
b sard was most favorable for recreation.

Hf stitwial interest n Is the discussion of the
‘ut—stion. “Which is mort desirable and efTective
r its results a lay board or '1 department head
~ is sutnetitm‘s found under the city manager
form of gut'ernri.erit“" Apparently there has n1 it
l-ecrn much cvperience with the department of
'e: reatinr without ‘ la) board and with the ex
t'lltn't in charge re .pr Insille only to a city
manager m- .‘irv c- c-utne. Iluwrvt r, ".tost ex
I 'Tltrtlu wth ‘he latter for: - '. 'na1.agetnent has
out been favorablt an‘ 1 was gem-rally agreed
that la} lnarrl.~. non nulitisal and representative
f the IK‘HPII, art new-sun unrbr anv form “f
g. :Crnment

'(V m!‘ ‘ .‘lif'h With! not" ‘I‘Tt'ft- {mi um add

I in 'h ‘9trt3'1ltlllal progran f no «nu--
Hum! "1* s an make and adupu ldillt'lt" and
n on r' l u in tl to th« mar  thus milking

friends for recreation. They can be of great help
in solving the. problems that arise sooner or later
in any organization—and we all know that two
heads are better than one.

They can assist in solving financial problems
and. being non-political, are in a position to carry
their hght to the people of the community when
there is danger of having budgets cut or eliminated
entirely. People of wealth or means are more
likely to give land. building or money to a com-
munity for recreational purposes if they know
that this money or property will be administered
wisely by a lay board and not be subject to
politics.

\ lay board can be far more etfecuve than a
single indixidual when politics threaten to disrupt
a recreational program.

The general discussion brought out very
:trongl) that a board or commission of represen-
tative people of the community whose sole pur-
pose is the promotion of recreation is most desir-
able and etiective in its results. In conclusion. it
was agreml that civic. consciousness and the stand-
ard :et :v the people of the Community really
determine. the SLICttl‘sS or failure of any system of
recreation.

SUIlIJIARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 387

’ . «r '

.,-'gw

 I ' It v

 

Wardman Park HotelI Washington. D. C.. October 3. I934

Q

What Parks Are Doing for Abundant Living

Bv ERNEST K. THOMAS '
Superintendent of Parks, Providence, Rhode Island

HERE were eleven questions listed on the
Tprogram for discussion at this group meeting

but time permitted for consideration of only
two or three. The following are the high spots:

I. The motto of the American Institute of Park
Executives indicates that park executives have an
understanding of the contribution which parks
may make to abundant living. It is—“To make
more abundant facilities for a more expressive
life for all.”

2. The ideal towards which park executives
are working is to secure at least one acre of land
to be used for park purposes to eachI 100 of the
population. Very few municipalities, counties, or
states have approached this standard as yet, and
most communities have not yet come iwithin 50%
of this ideal.

3. Rapid strides have been made in recent
years in acquiring for public use forever, large
areas such as represented in our national parks
and forests. States, counties, and municipalities
are also rapidly acquiring new areas for public
park purposes.

4. This movement of acquiring new areas for
park purposes must go on for some time to come

before any adequate amount of property is ac-
quired and dedicated to park purposes for the
leisure time use of the people.

5. Howto finance the maintenance of park areas
and new areas to be acquired in the future is a
problem facing all park executives. The most
widely accepted policy seems to be that federal,
state, county, and municipal governments shall
make the capital expenditures necessary to acquire
and develop parks for a variety of recreational
uses and that those who make use of special
features provided such as golf, tennis, various
sports and games, picnic grounds, camping sites,
fishing, swimming pools, bath houses, music, con-
certs, dramatics, nature study and a number of
other recreational facilities shall help support
them, in part at least, by paying nominal fees.

6. It has been observed for a number of years,
and especially in the last few years when large
numbers of our people are bearing heavy burdens
brought about by unemployment, that larger
numbers seek those areas in parks which' are
kept in a more or less natural condition, or where
there are beauty spots such as rose or other
special gardens, or where the environment is
beautiful, quiet and peaceful. It is in such environ-
ments that our people may get physical, mental
and spiritual refreshment which helps sustain

388 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

their morale and gives to them a new courage to
meet their own personal problems.

7. It was in an environment of peace, quiet and
beauty that the Almighty intended that his child-
ren should live. Cities and congested areas provide
an unnatUral environment for the genus homo.
This is a biological fact that can be demonstrated
by observing the behavior of people whenever
the following factors are present: First, large
areas in parks, away from the centers of popula-
tion; second, an inexpensive means of transporta-
tion ; and third, time—leisure time.

\Vhen these factors are all available to our
people, young and old will flock in thousands to
areas where only the simplest facilities are
provided, such as picnic grounds, camp sites and
nature trails, leaving beind them the cities with
their recreational equipment and facilities and
organized programs. Parks and recreational facili-
ties in congested areas are often very little used
over the week-ends, and on holidays and Sundays.
It is on Sundays, for example, that many swim-
ming pools are drained for cleaning purposes
when there is no demand for their use.

8. Are we in danger of being misled in our
planning by inadequate thinking on recreational
facilities and programs for the use of the public?
Are we spending too much time in planning and
organizing for the recreational use of the people
without sufficient basic knowledge of the natural
desires and biological impulses of the people we
aim to serve? May I suggest that such questions
as these are fundamental and an intelligent un-
derstanding of them is essential to all boards and
executives who are concerned with the planning,
deveIOpment and supervision of recreation for the
public.

RecreatiOn executives themselves may well seek
out these retreats in quiet, peaceful surroundings

for the purpose of study and a great deal of hard,
straight thinking on the

spiritual and biological
background of human
nature in order that we may
hope to understand a little
more about what is neces-
sary for the best physical,
mental, moral and spiritual
deveIOpment of our people
to the end that they may be

as happy as possible in this
mundane world.

your executive l?!

of a nation."

In presenting his summary, Dr. Fisher said,
"I would like as a national officer of the
Boy Scouts of America to bring the friendly
greeting of that organization to this Asso-
ciation because we are deeply indebted to
many men who are in this organization who
were charter members of this movement.
And we have in our own movement honored
awarding him the award
of the silver bu alo because of his recog-
nized place as a leader of iustice in the life

Increasing the Recreation Service Program Through
Volunteer Leadership Supplementary to the
Leadership of Employed Staff

Bv GEORGE J. FISHER

Deputy Chief Scout Executive, Boy Scouts of America
New York, N. Y.

cussions were lively and apropos to the subject

discussed. One noted a very marked advance
in the sympathetic attitude toward volunteer
service on the part of professional leaders. In the
past, discussions have emphasized largely the
negative aspects of volunteer service. It was
implied then that it was too casual, .too uncertain,
too superficial. In these discussions there was a
distintively positive note. Testimony was given
regarding the loyalty, the efficiency, the values and
the permanency of such service under proper
guidance.

There was general implication that the volunteer
in recreation had risen to a large place in the
present situation. The increased amount of time
available for recreation, the tremendous volume
of activities to be directed—and now the great
variety of activities included in recreation are
responsible for this emphasis. There is no time
like the present; this is the day; this is the hour.
There must be raised up a vast army of leaders
to give intelligent and human and spiritual leader-
ship to the new leisure movement.

Along with these increased opportunities are
decreased budgets. The cost of professional leader-
ship on a large scale is prohibitive. Much of this
service therefore must perforce be voluntary.
Perhaps it is better so, for if we had all of the
money that we wanted to spend, it might be that
this movement would be too mass, too crass, too
impersonal.

But voluntarism in recreation is desirable for
its own sake. The voluntary
principle is the democratic
principle. It is in line with
our national traditions. It
is distinctly American in its
part and spirit.

The modem note in rec-
reation is to help people
find entertainment and ro-
mance and adventure. It
must, in part. be personal,
cultural, life enriching.

THIS session was well attended and the dis-

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 389

Children must learn by doing, and there must
be opportunities for the creative, for exploration
and for personal archievement.

There was very definite evidence that in the
future there would be more rather than less
voluntary service in the recreational movement.
This is essential to meet the feeling on the part
of many youths—including the unemployed—0f a
sense of uselessness. In recreation these youth
can be given worthwhile tasks to perform that
bring with them the sense of helpfulness to others,
of having something to share with others. This is
a constructive antidote for the restlessness and
sense of futility among youth.

\V hat youths fail to find in their vocation they
may find increasingly in their avocations. Here
volunteer service in recreation rises to new
heights in its potential possibilities for developing
character and happiness and abundant living. Its
tools are so tangible, its activities are so real, its
spirit is so bonyant that it contributes to the cer—
titudes of life. It substitutes in part the service
motive for the gain motive. It is securing the
larger life through service.

It was generally conceded that the modern
executive in recreation will be noted primarily for
his skill in recruiting and inspiring volunteer
leadership.

The burning question that always arises in
discussions of voluntary service is, “Can we have
all that is fine in voluntarism—its unselfishness,
its high motive—and yet have such service in line
with modern educational and social service
technique ?” There is the hub of the volunteer
problem; mere good intentions on the part of men
and women will not suffice. Volunteers must be
trained for service. This was the heart of the
discussion.

Techniques have been devised for training
volunteers for efficient service. Probably the most
heartening aspect of the whole recreation move-
ment is the genius that is being displayed in train-
ing volunteer leaders for specific tasks and even
in the training of leaders who in turn will train
other leaders. Unique plans were reported for
training game leaders, song leaders, leadership in
the crafts, leadership of groups -.— “group
motivation.”

Every recreation movement will have the train-
ing of its volunteer leadership bulk large in its
program in the future. What hitherto has been
done in this direction sparingly should and will

be done tomorrow in a generous fashion. This
is a distinct trend it seems to me. This conference
has revealed it at many points.

I was very much surprised to hear that ninety-
seven per cent of the leadership in the rural com—
munities must of necessity be volunteer.

Volunteer service then will always be preceded
by training for such service. Here we must show
genius and special ability for in this direction lies
progress—great progress. It is the means by
which the cause will be made persuasive. Because
of this increased function by the professional
leader there was a distinct request for literature
dealing with the professional leader’s relation to

the volunteer, suggesting principles, policies and
programs.

In conclusion, the best way to develop leader-
ship in America is to have the youth experience
leadership. The recreation field is a most experi-
mental field for practice in leadership. That deal-
ing with the volunteer has its problems it' was
acknowledged; dealing with the human is the most
difficult problem in the world, but as John Finley
has said, “It will be more difficult to train people
to use their leisure rightly than it has been to train
them to labor efficiently.”

What College and University Courses Are Desirable
for Men and Women Who After College
Training Are Immediately to Become
Play and Recreation Leaders?

BY LEE F. HANMER

Director, Department of Recreation, Russell Sage
Foundation, New York, N. Y.

registered as desirable for all recreation
workers: I. A broad, basic, cultural training.
2. An understanding of social and civic problems.

3. A high personality rating. 4. Special courses
in the technique of conducting the types of ac-

tivity in which the individual proposes to serve.

Specially trained workers for the different
activities were considered essential but such train-
ing should be given in postgraduate or senior
year courses. The training of recreation execu-
tives for administrative work is in quite a dif-
ferent category from the training needed for play
and recreation leadership in the wide variety of
activities. For this reason the National Recrea-
tion Association has established its National Rec—

THE predominating note in the discussion

390 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

reation School for ex—
ecutives, which provides
graduate training courses.

It was deplored that
qualification requirements
and salaries for recrea-
tion workers are not now
generally commensurate
with these desired stand-
'ards of training. They

should at least compare
favorably with those for public school teaching.

It was suggested that for all college and univer-
sity students there should be required courses
designed to prepare each individual for the whole-
some and satisfying use of his or her own free
time. In addition to the personal benetits that
would accrue, such training would help to develop
a public more responsive to adequate provision
for play and recreation and its efficient admin-

istration.

Just as colleges and universities are now pro-
viding advanced courses in music, medicine,
architecture, engineering, etc., so should they also
offer courses for recreatiOn administrators and
leaders of special play activities. The registration
for such cOUrses would no doubt be responsive
to the professional opportunities in that field, as
is the case in the other professions. These courses
should provide for practical laboratory work in
the conduct of activities, and should definitely
include research in play and recreation problems.
Courses in this field should be addressed to: I.
Personal needs of the student. 2. Social needs.
3. Professional needs.

It was suggested that a responsibility rests
upon the public schools to teach all the children
plays and games, develop skills. and stimulate
Special interests that will tend to equip them for
the wholesome use of free time both as children
and adults. The function of public recreation then
would become primarily that of providing facili-
ties for recreation and administering them, rather
than teaching activities: although that would of
necessity continue to be a part of the task in the
growth and development of recreation programs.
Just as the training for professional social work
should include an understanding of the play and

recreation needs of the people, so should the
training for recreation administration and leader-

ship provide for instruction in the basic principles
of personal and family adjustment and welfare.

tion areas.

At the First International Recreation Congress
in Los Angeles in I932 a group of woriters met
for a discussion of special recreation engineering
problems. Those present felt the need for more
frequent opportunities to discuss problems of
this sort and requested the Association to help
make this possible. Consequently a meeting was
arranged at the recent Congress in Washington
which was devoted to a discussion of engineering
problems involved in the development of recrea-

Play and recreation ad-
ministration and leader-
ship is in reality a prac-
tical form of social work, .
and in the expanding
field of free time service
is destined to become
increasingly so.

Substantial contribu-
tions to our grouP dis-
cussion of this subject
were made by recreation executives, representa-
tives of institutions offering courses in play and
recreation, and many others who have had wide,
practical experience in training recreation workers
and conducting activities.

As another evidence of its efficient service, the
National Recreation Association has prepared '1
suggested four year college course for those plan-
ning to go directly into recreation work. The
Association’s comments on this subject and the
courses proposed are in complete harmony with
the conclusions reached by our discussion group.
Multigraphed copies of that outline of courses
are available for those who are interested.

Recreation Engineering Problems

Bv GILBERT CLEGG
Playground Engineer, C if): of .Uifwaukcc, Wisconsin

\‘EN as all Gaul is divided into three parts, the
E recreation engineering problem divides

itself into two parts. There are the details
of construction—stubborn facts that may make or
break a playground. Drains that don't drain; a
surface that blows away on wash day; tennis
courts that crack; field house doors that swing
the wrong way; bubblers that don’t bubble—you
know the whole list. The second part is that less
tangible but probably more important thing called
the general plan or design. It is that interrelation
of size and arrangement of the various activity
areas to the site, the type of neighborhood, the
kind of supervision, and the size of budget.

Our group began with the details, perhaps be-
cause of the suggested questions for discussion
and perhaps because the details cause the director
so much grief and in this meeting he hoped to
find a remedy for his troubles. It early became
evident that because of the variation in local con-
ditions, materials, prices and climate, an exchange
of blue prints and specifications is of little value
unless all the related facts bearing upon the situa-

SUMMARIES OP DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS ‘ 391

tion are known. This does not mean that Cali-
fornia can’t help Massachusetts, or that our
discussion was wasted time. Far from it, but be-
cause situations alter conditions, I shall only touch
the high spots of the discussion with emphasis
upon principles involved.

Surfacing. A lengthy discussion of surfacing
showed that the impervious type of all-weather
surfacing such as concrete, asphalt or tar macadam
should be used only where absolutely necessary
to withstand the wear and that turf or porous
surfacing such as sand and clay or crushed tile
and clay should be used Wherever it will stand up.

Tennis Courts. It was the almost unanimous
agreement that tennis players prefer a good clay
court to a hard surfaced court, but in several
instances the players despite their expressed pre-
ference actually took the hard surfaced courts.
All-weather surfacing is in high favor with recrea-
tion directors because of the low maintenance cos:
and, in maintenance, concrete is cheaper than
asphalt or tar macadam. It is recognized that the
success of a concrete court depends upon sound
engineering and honest, careful construction.

Lighting. Flood lighting of tennis courts and
play areas is increasing in popularity but at present
there is no standard of light intensity, type of
unit, or location. The trend is toward setting the
lamps higher above the play area.

Backstops. As with the lighting equipment, the
range of sizes and shapes of baseball backstops
varies widely. Under city conditions it has been
found necessary and practical to reduce the dis—
tance from home plate to the backstop to as little
as hfteen feet
and have an

 

—-w win-v

'3

depending upon the available labor and ability
to secure good material at a reasonable price.
Tampa, near the cypress mills, can afford to do it;
Detroit can’t. Before building any bleachers the
question of liability for patent infringement should
be passed up0n by the! recreation department’s
attorney.

Fireplaces. Outdoor fireplaces were discussed
and apparently many have been built without '1
knowledge of whether they would be used by
small family parties or large organized groups.
As a result many fireplaces are too big and the
fuel consumption is exorbitant. Fireplaces where
wood is available should be designed to permit
enjoyment as an open fire after the meal is cooked.

Wading Pools. The maximum depth of water
in wading pools favored by the majority present
ranged from 12 to 18 inches with a few champions
of depths to three feet. The deeper pools present
a drowning hazard unless under constant super-
vision.

It is notable that either because of lack of time
or the relative importance on a supervised play—
ground, the word apparatus was never mentioned
during the discussions.

Probably the outstanding fruit of the discussion
of recreation engineering problems was the re-
cognition of proper planning as a basis of success-
ful recreational areas. Miss Josephine Randall
of San Francisco pointed out that we have worked
out with great detail methods and programs and
have developed experts upon these matters, but
little attention has been given to the problem of
the physical planning. She SUggested that there

is a held for a

new specialist
called a Rec-

overhang ex— _  «   o '
tend over the Alnct‘cail Jlii‘or 'ross reation Engi-

     

batter. In De-
troit the wire
fabric of the
overhang is al-
lowed to hang
loose to soften
the rebound of
foul tips.

P o r t a b I e
Bleachers. The
advisability of
building home-
made portable 
bleachers is a '
local problem +

w

   

neer who would
meet this need.
Mr. M. C.
Huppuch of the
National Park
Service empha-
sized the im—
p o r t a n c e of
good design as
a n1 e a n s o f
holding down
m a i n t e nance
costs — an im—
portant c 0 n-
sideration i n

 

392 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

view of the great amount of work now done with
federal aid.

It was generally agreed that play areas should
be the result of the collaborative efforts of the
trained recreation director, the building architect,
the engineer, and the landscape architect. Ideally
they should start collaborating before the site is
selected. Having the site, the recreation director
will list the required facilities, activities and equip-
ment; the landscape architect will design the area
as a harmonious composition recognizing practical
requirements and esthetics; the architect will plan
the buildings; and the engineer will dictate the
structural requirements. The questions of what
and how to surface, depth of wading pool, kind
of tennis courts will be determined to meet the
individual requirements. It will be a tailor-made
playground rather than a mail order product.

All will work together and their meeting of
minds will produce results far beyond the
mediocrity of ill planned areas all too often en-
countered and accepted as satisfactory. \Ve have
a rare opportunity to raise the accepted standard,
improve public taste, and, what is more, have
a better recreational area.

The Recreation Executives' Meetings

Bv V. K. BROWN

Superintendent of Playground: and Sport:
South Park Commission.

Chicago, I”.

“H mobilizing of the nation might well be re-

ported as the theme of the recreation execu-

tives’ meetings on the initial day of this
conference. Cooperation was the subject of the
first session which gave testimony to the general
determination that out of our bitter experience
of material want we shall move unitedly toward
a compensating spiritual betterment in our social
order.

The progress reports of that first assembly
were all concerned with the pooling of thought
and effort to use our increased freedom to think
and act together. They widened the trend of
agencies to work toward team rather than indivi-
dual and isolated efliciencies. The business of
living more effectually. engaging city planners.
welfare workers, recreation leaders and even
groups seeking further light on international re-
lations. was put into evidence, each community
standing on its right to discover, mature, and act

upon, its own plans for its special needs even to
the suggestion that private organizations use
public facilities where the public itself cannot
provide for promoting intensive use, as a pre-
cursor proving plant for the pubTic agency’s later
developments.

Some of the problems of interpretation of gov-
ermnent regulation and operation where govern-
ment funds provide for manning of local works—
problems of morale maintenance. of compensation
inequalities, of materials provision and of selec-
tion of qualified workers—were frankly faced as
inherent in the use of relief help. The duty of
using such help in a cooperating spirit with the
national relief administration was recognized,
but so was the danger to the local situation of such
overmanning of service as would make for reliev-
ing communities of the salutary sense of respon-
sibility for self-sufiiciency in directing their own
leisure, and warnings were voiced against such
opulence. Fees and charges were discussed. and
even the subject of responsibility for accidents
and for treatment for injuries came in for at-
tention.

It is quite evident, I think, that in the struggle
of the human spirit to reinterpret life—the
struggle now going forwar(l-—-—a call to the colors
is enlisting us all in a movement, not of shock
troops, but of a people as a whole. It is apparent,
I submit, that the feeling is becoming almost
universal that perhaps the most momentous event
in the life of this generation was not the shot at
Sarajevo, but that day when the supreme court
of a peOple devoted to economic individualism
declared constitutional the principle of a grad-
uated income tax and in so doing sounded the
death knell of unregulated freedom in the pursuit
of economic gain as a life purpose. “'e are be-
coming increasingly aware of the staggering sig-
nilicance of that act, l think—of the fact that it
rang the curtain down on an era in human history
and repolarized civilization. Getting, by that act.
was doomed as the basic service as might tend
toward recreational dependency or toward a
weakening expectation of continuing and econom-
ically insnpportable permanent paternalism in
service.

Federal representatives spent hours inter-
preting the spirit and aims of the govcrnment's
organized efforts to aid the communities facing
relief necessities too great for local and unassisted

resources to provide. Both federal and local rep-
(Continue-d on my: 409)

A Children’s Christmas Party

" HAT a delightful af-
fair!” “The best

Christmas party for
children in years!” These and
many other commendable statements were made
by children and adults alike last Christmas in
Reading, Pennsylvania.

Each year the Department of Public Play-
grounds and Recreation of the municipal govern—
ment invites 1,200 children to a Christmas party
held in the spacious City Hall auditorium. The
children are selected by the visiting nurses who
in turn present each poor child with a free ticket
of admission. The tickets are printed by the Rec-
reation Department. In addition to the children
selected by the Visiting Nurse Association, chil—
dren'from institutions such as orphanages and
correctional institutions are also invited.

The auditorium is decorated for the occasion,
as it is the day before Christmas. A large ever—
green tree beautifully lighted and decorated -with
colored balls graces the stage. Other small ever-
greens, holly and laurel flooded with colored lights
from the balcony make the environment most
pleasing to the eye.

A master of ceremonies, usually the superin-
tendent of recreation, leads the children in the sing-
ing of Yuletide songs. The words and music are
flashed Upon the screen. A good accompanist aids
greatly in enlivening the music. Do the children sing
“Hark, the Herald Angels Sing,” “0 Little Town
of Bethlehem” and many other familiar carols?
Well, they can’t get enough! One surely gets a
thrill just to witness this part of the program.

The Mayor is then introduced to the entire
group. A few chosen words of greeting from him
bring tremendous applause from the happy crowd.
Several more carols are sung before the next
feature event takes place.

Last Christmas in coopera-
tion with the local Story
League we were able to bring
“The Red Gate Shadow Pup—
pets” from New York City.
The department and the Story
League shared the expense
which was not exorbitant and

Mr. LantzI Superintendent of Public
Recreation in Reading, Pa., tells in
this article how the recreation authori-
ties in that city cooperate with local
agencies and institutions in providing
a Merry Chrstmas for the less fortu-
nate Reading children.

By THOMAS W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
Reading, Pa.

yet most worth while. The de-

_partn1ent had its program in
the morning while the Story
League held its own party for
members, friends and their children exclusively.

“The Red Gate Shadow Puppets” were with-
out doubt the most artistic and most successful
presentation we have ever experienced. The
shadow play is an ancient art and dates back to
121 B. C. in the Court of an Emperor of China.
It was presented from behind a translucent screen
with figures delicately carved from donkey skin
parchment and colored with transparent lacquers.
“The Red Gate Shadow Puppets” have brought
the authentic figures from China and endeavor to
retain all the artistic charm of the Orient in their
presentations. The program in Reading was ac-
companied by special music arranged to carry out
the atmosphere in terms all could appreciate. The
three artists, two to operate the pUppets and one
to create the music and sounds, have a large reper-
toire of plays. Three plays were presented before
the children, namely, a “Christmas Tableau,” a
Chinese New Year’s number, “The Feast of the
Lanterns,” and a story, “The Legend of the Wil—
low Plate.” The whole feature was exceedingly
fresh and delicate. The artists have managed to
preserve so much of the naive and quaint quality
of the primitive puppets and create such a per-
fect illusion of authentic Chinese atmosphere that
the program had value far beyond that of mere
entertainment. Every puppet, gracefully carved
and beautifully colored, danced and acted against
a silver screen to the accompaniment of choice
music, much to the thorough enjoyment of the
children.

Dear old Santa Claus is not forgotten. To
climax the party, the children sing “Jingle Bells”
and a real Santa walks upon the stage with his
pack loaded with oranges and
candy. Santa is given a rous-
ing reception and then actually
talks to the poor children and
orphans. Finally “ S i 1 e n t
Night” is sung very quietly in
a semi-dark auditorium with

( Continued on page 409)

393

The Recreation Executives Discuss Vital Problems

A Digest oi- the Recreation Executives' Meetings
at Washington, D. C.

HE topics for discussion at the recreation ex—
Tecutives' meetings were grouped under three
headingsz' I. Cooperation; 2. The Present
Emergency; 3. General and Technical Problems.
Much interest was expressed in the various
questions relating to cooperative thinking, plan-
ning and action on the part of local agencies in
the recreation and leisure time field. The first
morning session, which was devoted to a consid-
eration of this problem, was presided over by
Tam Deering, Superintendent of Recreation in
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Local Machinery for Cooperative Thinking,
Planning and Action

Evidence that local recreati0n executives are
increasingly conscious of the value of cooperating
with other local agencies in the leisure time field
and are actively participating in cooperative ef-
forts was indicated from the reports submitted
by a number of workers. Thomas W. Lantz,
Superintendent of Recreation in Reading, Penn-
sylvania, introduced the discussion of this ques-
tion. He reported on the Leisure Time Division
of the Council of Social Agencies in that city.
Through this Division, the Superintendent of

Recreation has an opportunity to plan coopera-
tively with the other

local agencies. Among the
functions of the Division
are: Analyzing the jobs
of the various agencies,
investigating unmet
needs, planning neigh-
borhood recreation serv-
ice, considering problems
of boys and girls, con-
ducting training courses,
planning for summer
camps and day camps.
develOping leisure time
opportunities for youth

394

Following the usual custom, the morning and
afternoon prior to the Opening session of the
Recreation Congress were devoted to a meeting
of recreation executives. Participation in the dis-
cussion was limited to chief executives of com-
munity-wide recreation systems although others
were cordially invited to attend. In presenting
various questions for discussion. spealters were
limited to five minutes each.

A remarkable record in cooperation was made
at this meeting. Twenty-seven individuals had
promised to help with the program and not a
single one failed to be present. The General
Chairman for the entire meeting was Charles E.
Reed. Manager of the Field Department of the
National Recreation Association. in

and unemployed, promoting play in the home and
in the churches. Other projects undertaken by
the Division have been the preparation of a spot
map of the children reached by different agencies
and conducting a study of juvenile delinquency.

Among the accomplishments of the Council of
Social Agencies have been the arrangement for a
study of Reading agencies by a representative
of the National Education-Recreation Council,
the bringing of several recreation experts to the
city for special projects, an increased education
of the public to the importance of recreation and
the securing of $2,000 from the Community Chest
for a new recreation center.

The extent to which Councils of Social Agen-
cies are taking the leadership in creating local
machinery for cooperative planning and action in
the recreation field was further indicated by re-
ports from several other cities. In W'ashington,
D. C., the Council employs a recreation secretary
whose task is to promote cooperation among the
agencies dealing with the leisure time problem.
In Houston, Texas, the Council, although in an
embryonic stage, has a clearing committee whose
purpose is to obtain desirable cooperation among
the local groups. It was reported that the Houston
Recreation Department has received much help
from the Council in the
securing of needed facili-
ties. The Council also
has a committee for keep-
ing in touch with the
services of all the group
work agencies. Coopera-
tion with the City Rec-
reation Department on
the part of the Council
of Social Agencies and
the Community Fund in
St. Paul, M innesota,
was also reported.

emphasizing the

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 395

necessity for cooperation, Mr.
Deering stated: “It has be—
come clear within the last two
years that rugged individualism
is now giving way to cooper-
ative effort and recreation
executives are no more im-
mune than industrial and
labor leaders. They must
develop a new technique of
cooperative effort. No longer
does cooperation mean a
single file with the recreation department at the
head but a circle within which we all come to—
gether.”

Two methods of securing joint planning for
recreation in Oakland, California, were reported.
One is through the organization of former rec-
reation board members into a leisure time group
to which have been added a number of people
who have a special interest in recreation. The
group meets each month for a discussion of rec-
reation problems. The other method is through
a council of representatives from different
agencies concerned about or dealing with such
specific problems as juvenile delinquency.

The need for cooperation was illustrated by
experiences reported from two or three cities. In
a southern city, for example, the need for a boys’
club was being considered. The city had a suitable
building but no funds to operate it. One local
private agency agreed to supply the equipment
and leadership. When plans for the project were
nearly completed, the Council of Social Agencies
protested that the project fell within the field of
two other existing private agencies. It was clear
that had there been the machinery for a thorough
discussion of the problem in the beginning,
serious differences and difficulties might have
been prevented. Another instance was cited of a
difference of opinion between municipal play-
ground and school authorities, showing a fun-
damental need for better understanding between
the two local boards.

June I934.

Utilizing Schoolhouses and Facilities for
Community Recreation

It was agreed that recreation systems should
do more than is now being done in the utilization
of schoolhouses and facilities for community
recreation. Reports from a number of cities in-
dicated, however, that much progress has been
made in securing cooperation to this end. Miss

"In dealing with adult education we
must regard the school not as a place
where classes are taught' but as the
center of community lifel reflecting
the community's interests in music.
art. the drama, and current affairs as
well as in what we have been accus-
tomed to think of as education."—
Robert M. H utcbins, Presidentl Uni-
versity of Chicagol in address before
the National Education Association'

Ruth Swezey, Executive Di-
rector, Playground and Rec-
reation Association of Wyom-
ing Valley, Wilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania, pointed out the
necessity for cooperation be-
tween recreation and school
authorities and emphasized the
importance of showing school
officials that recreation work-
ers are not merely athletic
directors. In Wilkes—Barre
the Recreation Director is on the Emergency Edu-
cation Committee and directs the adult education
as well as the recreation program.

Reports indicated close cooperation between
recreation and school boards in other cities where,
due to a good understanding between them, facili—
ties are furnished by the Board of Education and
leadership by the Recreation Department. There
were indications, on the other hand, of a need
for a closer relationship in order that school facili-
ties may be used most effectively for community
recreation.

Adult Education-Recreation Programs

The purpose of this discussion was to determine
to what extent and in what ways public recreation
bodies were uniting with adult education groups
in sponsoring education—recreation programs for
adults. Several instances in which recreation was
used in connection with adult education programs
were cited by E. Dana Caulkins, Superintendent
of Recreation, \Vestchester County, New York.
In a citizenship group which he once taught, class
singing was introduced as a form of recreational
activity. The recreation director in a Michigan
lumber town developed an inclusive adult educa-
tion program. The workshop program under the
\Vestchester County Recreation Commission has
come to include much more than handcraft.
Classes in international relations and other sub-
jects commonly thought of as adult education are
now offered. In administering the emergency
education programs under the supervision of the
New York State Department of Education, joint
local committees for both recreation and adult
education subjects and activities have been found
advisable.

Recreation workers have had an active part in
the emergency education program carried on in the
schools of York. Pa., where educational activities
are supervised by school authorities and recrea-

396 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

tional activities by the recreation direct'or. In
Michigan it was reported that under the Emer-
gency Relief Administration. city recreation de-
partments can initiate adult recreation programs.
The schools are responsible for definite adult
education classes but other activities which have a
recreation viewpoint are under the recreation de-
partment. Two members of the school staff and
two from the recreation department determine
under which classification a specific activity be-
longs. The viewpoint of the members of the class,
as to whether the activity is vocational or avoca-
tional, largely determines the classification.

There was considerable discussion as to the dis-
tinction between recreation and adult education.
In Cleveland. Ohio. for the past ten years the
Board of Education has made the distinction that
if work is being done for credit, it is adult educa-
tion. whereas if it is being done for interest alone
with no credit concerned, it is recreation. “The
time has come to draw a line between academic
education and recreation." said V. K. Brown of
Chicago. “Recreation is an exploratory, adventur-
ous thing and the recreation agency should not
assume too much that will give a color of academic
education to recreation and establish an expectancy
for support by educational institutions.”

The chairman asked for a show of hands as to
the number of cities represented which had adult
education groups. Many hands were raised. Few
hands were raised, however, in answer to the
question as to how many had taken steps to co-
ordinate the recreation and adult education pro-
grams.

Cooperation with City and Regional
Planning Commissions

A number of principles to be followed in
establishing cooperative relationships with platt-
ning groups were outlined by Raymond \V.
Robertson, Superintendent of Recreation, Oak-
land, California. Among them are:

1. Relationships in cooperation are dependent
Upon our attitude. \Ve must establish a personal
relationship. Sometimes criticism of a city plan-
ning committee for failure to cooperate is merely
an excuse for our own shortcoming.

2. It is important to have a fairly definite plan
to submit to or discuss with city planning
authorities. Often we approach them with only a
vague understanding of the problem.

3. It is important to share ideas. Reference was

made to the helpful relationships established be-
tween recreation and city planning authorities as
a result of the discussions of city planning prob-
lems at district conferences.

4. Two-way cooperation is essential. \Ve must
not be dictatorial but rather realize that we have
a great deal to learn from planning groups.

5. Because each community is a separate unit
with peculiar problems, local conditions must be
taken into consideration. In Los Angelcs various
city and county recreation departments are rep-
resented on a planning committee.

Excellent cooperation with planning authori-
ties, resulting in definite benefits to city recreation
departments, was reported in other cities.

Public versus Private Recreation

The division of responsibility for developing
recreation between public and private agencies
was discussed by \V. Duncan Russell, General
Director of COmmunity Service, Boston. Massa-
chusetts. Speaking as the executive of a private
organization, Mr. Russell expressed the opinion
that any private recreation executive who thinks
he is ordained to run public recreation ought to
be "thrown out." His objective should rather be
to arouse the community to the need for public
recreation ust as for public education. The private
agency should be allowed to take over certain
responsibility where the public body is weak, and
through private efforts to initiate and develop
public support. Likewise it should temporarily
take over public facilities where public finances
cannot make provision for leadership.

At the present time in many cities drama, music.
the fine arts and other activities do not have
sufficient support to enable the public agency to
provide an adequate program. The private agency
can demonstrate the value of these activities by
using public facilities and thereby building up
support for them as a part of the public pro-
gram. Provision for mass activities is respon-
sihility of the public rather than of the private
agency. The latter must be the proving ground
for new activities, according to Mr. Russell.
"It can serve as the college into which the public
agency graduates the persons who desire more
individual work."

The Present Emergency

Problems arising out of the present emergency
provided the subject for discussion during the
second morning session. Benefits resulting to

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 397

local recreation service through improved and
increased facilities and through the initiation of
new activities and programs were reported from
a number of cities. Problems in the use of relief
workers on construction and maintenance projects,
as well as in positions of recreation leadership,
were presentcd and discussed. Effects of emer-
gency measures upon regular personnel, budgets
and programs were cited and changes which
should be made in municipal recreation services
were outlined.

Representatives of the Federal Emergency
Relief Administration were present during the
presentation and discussion of these questions by
local recreation executives. Called upon to answer
a number of the questions which had been raised
.and to outline the policies governing the use of
relief funds for recreation projects, they made a
contribution which was of tremendous value to
the recreation workers. In fact, so interested was
the group in the subject under discussion, that
it was voted to devote the early part of the after-
noon session to a continued consideration of
emergency problems.

Recreation Benefits from the Emergency

Reports from a number of cities indicated that
local recreation services have gained greatly as
a result of the present emergency. Clarence E.
Brewer of Detroit told how in that city last year
approximately $530,000 had been made available
from relief funds for labor on recreation pro—
jects and $I00,000 additional for materials. Cin-
cinnati has also benefited, 'the acreage under the
Recreation Commission in

use of relief labor. In Birmingham, Alabama, the
facilities in the city’s parks have been trebled
during the depression, the C. W. A. having
proved “a gift from Heaven.”

Not only in the improvement and extension
of facilities but also in the carrying out of new
programs and activities has the emergency con-
tributed largely in a number 'of cities. Louis C.
Schroeder of New York City reported that ap-
proximately 2,000 workers are engaged in recrea:
tional leadership projects under the Works
Division of the Department of Public Welfare of
that city. Some 300 of these are working in the
schools, 500 in the parks, 800 in welfare organiza-
tions, 400 in street play projects and others in
day camps. One of the projects which has proved
most useful was the street play program which
was conducted in areas of high delinquency and
which for the first time brought recreational
activities near a large number of people. It was
reported that approximately 6,000 “white collar”
workers are being used in New York City in
music, drama, arts and various other forms of
recreational activity. In Cincinnati as many as
220 people from relief rolls have served as recrea-
tion leaders without any curtailment of the reg-
ular personnel. In Birmingham, Alabama, the
program this last year was doubled. due primarily
to the increased personnel from relief rolls. San
Francisco, Chicago, Pittsburgh and a number of
other cities likewise reported. effective use of relief
workers as recreation leaders.

An indirect benefit to public recreation depart—
ments growing out of the emergency was sug—

gested by Charles W'. Davis,

that city having been in-
creased from 350 to 1,000
acres during the depression
years. Materials for devel-
oping and improving these
areas were obtained from
the city through a $250,000
bond fund. Although the
value of the land acquired
and developed has not been
estimated, the value of the
improvements is not less
than $1,000,000. In New
York City since January I.
1934. there have been
opened 26 new playgrounds,
work on which has been
largely done through the

‘

llAbove all else interest was keen in all
the various ramifications of the relief ques-
tion—how to develop projects for recrea-
tional areas and facilities and especially for
recreational leadership; how to secure con-
tinuity of leadership: how to secure and
train the best of the available personnel on
relief for recreational leadership; how to fit
in to normal recreational organization so
that it may endure the great service now
being rendered to public recreation through
relief. It was questions of these kinds that
commanded the real interest and enthusi-
asm of the superintendentsI and the experi-
ence of the different cities in all these var-
ious questions was eagerly absorbed.”

Miss Josephine D. Randall, Superintendent
of Recreation' San FranciscoI California,
presided at the meeting at which The
Present Emergency was the topic for
discussion.

of Berkeley, California. He
pointed out that the careful
scrutiny of city budgets
during the last few years
has given recreation author-
ities an opportunity to in-
form the public as to the
service they are rendering.
Analyses of costs have
indicated how cheap public
recreation is, compared
with other public services.
Opposition to appropria-
tions for recreation has
given an opportunity for
demonstrating to the people
the value of this service.
In the same connection

398 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

C. R. Wood of Durham, North Carolina, pointed
out that in cities where the recreation executives
have done a good job and have wisely interpreted
their service there has been no question about
maintaining it. According to the ability of the
recreation executive to interpret his program,
especially during the emergency, the city has
benefited.

The opportunity which present conditions af-
ford for trying out new experiments was
emphasized by several speakers. For many years
opportunities for experimentation have been
needed and now that we have large numbers of
supplementary leaders they provide a means for
carrying out experimental projects.

Problems in Use of Emergency Workers

The most serious difficulty reported in con-
nection with the use of emergency workers was
due to the inadequate training, experience and
personality of many of the individuals who are
available for and assigned to recreation leader-
ship projects. Little difiiculty was reported in
securing persons for construction and maintcn-
ance projects but the opinion was expressed by
several workers that the service rendered by many
relief recreation leaders has a very limited value.
The Opinion was expressed that if recreation de-
partments had greater freedom in selecting
persons from relief lists, part of this difficulty
might be eliminated.

On the other hand, reports were received from
cities where the executives have considerable
freedom of choice and where persons assigned
for' recreation leadership from relief rolls have,
after a period of training, rendered highly satis-
factory service. There was general agreement that
recreation departments should take advantage of
every opportunity to secure workers and give
them as intensive training and careful supervision
as possible in order that they might render satis-
factory service. Special training institutes and
courses were reported in many cities.

The problem of securing adequate supervision.
especially of persons on leadership projects, was
also reported. Several workers who indicated
their experience in securing supervisory service
stated that it had been possible to secure com-
petent workers in sufficient numbers to assure
reasonable success of projects. In New York
City, for example, there is a staff of 55 or more
supervisors, all of whom have had special training
in the physical education or recreation field.

Salaries of these supervisors are $30 a week for
an assistant project supervisor, $33 per week for
a specialist or instructor, and $36 per week for a
supervisor in charge of a project. In San Fran-
cisco a director is paid $35 a week, an assistant
director $30 a week, and other members of the
staff $25 a week. In this city the placement
bureau of the relief administration selects persons
for service with the recreation department which
talks with the leaders, questions them about their
Special training, interests and experience and as-
signs them to‘ the particular work for which they
are fitted. Very few have had to be sent back to
the relief ofiiee.

In general, reports indicated that the local relief
administrations appreciate the value of recreation
leadership projects and have cooperated in assign-
ing workers for them. Some of the smaller com-
munities, however, have apparently not had the
same experience. At least two executives in small
cities stated that the relief administration is in the
hands of engineers who are only interested in
construction and development projects.

In some cities a very serious handicap to the
planning of recreation projects involving relief
leadership has been the delay in securing approval
by the local relief administration. On the othcr
hand, the experience in other cities has been that
the relief agency has itself approached the recrea-
tion authorities, requesting them to carry out
projects which would make use of recreation
leaders on the relief lists. In Birmingham,
Alabama. for example, the Park and Recreation
Board was recently reminded that its project was
nearing completion and it was suggested that
another project be submitted in order that as soon
as the present project expires another one might
be gotten under way without dclay. The Chicago
Board of Education was requestcd by the relief
authorities to supervise a project for the use of
recreation leaders on the school playgrounds dur-
ing the summer months, activities to be confined
to young children up to eight years of age. Trained
kindergarten teachers and recreation workers
were made available as leaders for the project.
When school opened in the fall the Board of Edn-
cation was asked to continue the pr0gram during
the fall and winter months.

Other difficulties which were mentioned as
having been encountered but which received little
or no discussion were: Lack of uniformity in
policy and procedure between different states in
the administration of relief funds; inequality of

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 399

pay between different
types of relief workers;
difficulty of maintaining
morale among workmen
engaged in maintenance
projects and especially
among trained personnel,
such as engineers, engaged
in such projects; inability
to plan ahead for the. ef-
fective use of relief work-
ers, due to the lack of
continuity in projects and
failure to approve plans
which would make it pos-
sible for partially trained
personnel to continue giv-
ing recreation leadership
service; inability to secure
the assignment of com-

The representatives of the Federal Emer-
gency Relief Administration who were present
at the executives' meeting were Arthur Gold-
schmidt. Acting Director of Professional Pro-
jects. and Miss Chloe Owings. Assistant
Director of Women's Work. The statement of
F. E. R. A. policies and procedures which ap-
pears in the report of the meeting is based
largely on remarks made by Mr. Goldschmidt.

ln commenting on the attendance of the
F. E. R. A. workers. one delegate stated: "Their
clear-headedness and sympathy in answering
the questions of the executives as to the fed-
eral attitude on all these various problems
were especially appreciated. It was a happy
experience. for evidence was conclusive that
the federal administration did appreciate the
great value in recreation. did greatly favor all
kinds of recreational projects. did wish to use
all possible influence with the ultimately re-
sponsible local and state administrators so
that the problems of project presentation. con-
tinuity of project. and selection of personnel

could be successfully and happily worked out.'I

difficulties with which rec-
reation executives have
been confronted must be
considered in the light of
the fact that the job is
primarily and essentially a
relief job. Jobs cannot be
created for non-employed
people but only for those
actually in need of relief.

The displacement of
regular employees by
relief workers is definitely
disapproved by the relief
administration. A city can-
not drop workers from
regular jobs and expect to
have them put back on
their jobs as relief work-
ers. This principle should

petent planning personnel

to make sure that the best

available areas are acquired and developed for
recreation use; difficulty in securing funds with
which to purchase materials essential to the carry-
ing on of work projects.

F. E. R. A. Workers State Relief Policies
and Procedures

The presentation by the recreatiOn executives of
problems arising from the use of emergency funds
and also of their experiences with work programs
was followed by a statement of principles and
policies adopted by the Federal Emergency Relief
Administration. Many practical suggestions were
offered as to ways in which local recreation
authorities might benefit most from the oppor-
tunities offered by the present emergency, especi-
ally through the use of relief funds and workers.
This presentation proved of tremendous interest
and value to the recreation executives and the op-
portunities for free discussion and the raising of
questions did a great deal to clarify their under-
standing of the situation. It also provided an
opportunity for presenting to the federal repre-
sentatives some of the problems facing local
leaders.

The outstanding principles and procedures dis-
cussed by the representatives of the F. E. R. A.
may be summarized as follows:

The first concern of the F. E. R. A. is to take
care of the people who are on the relief rolls——
to put people to work. All of the problems and

be welcomed by recreation

executives because other-
wise cities would cut their recreation budgets by
eliminating salaries of workers, with the result
that later on there would be the necessity of
building up again city support for the recreation
program. To shift persons from regular jobs in
order to give their places to relief workers merely
adds to the relief problem.

The approval of work projects is a local res-
ponsibility. This is fortunate inasmuch as central-
ization at Washington of approval for all projects
would be well-nigh impossible. To attempt to
review so many projects adequately would cause
delays which would greatly interfere with the
social usefulness of the projects. The only types
of projects for which federal approval must be
secured are those of a statistical or survey nature.
The reason for this ruling is the desirability of
having a national clearing house for information
On projects involving research. It was repeatedlv
emphasized that local and state relief authorities,
and not the federal administration, are responsible
for the approval of work projects.

How to Submit a Relief Project

Practical suggestions were given as to the pro—
cedure necessary in submitting projects for ap-
poval. It was pointed out that only public ofhcials
should apply because relief money is not available
to private agencies.

The first Step in submitting a project is to con-
sult the local administrator. All requests for help

400 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

should be submitted in terms of a definite project.
Requests for personnel needed in connection with
the regular recreation department program should
not be submitted but only those for a specific
piece of work not already being done. On applica-
tion to the local relief director, a form is secured
which must be filled out completely and accur-
ately. The relief administration is supposed to
provide only labor but sometimes the local admin-
istrator will assist agencies in finding needed
materials elsewhere. His job is to use relief funds
for paying unemployed. Once a project is ap-
proved, the people required to carry it out are
sent to the department requesting it.

The fact was emphasized that workers are sent
to a department on approval. The department has
the right to either accept or reject the personnel
sent. If they are accepted and put to work but
fail to make good, they may be returned to the
relief office. The available relief personnel varies
considerably from one city to another. In Los
Angeles County, for example, the “white collar"
relief load is very high, with the result that many
persons competent to serve on recreation pro-
jects are available there.

Repeated emphasis was placed upon social use-
fulness as a desirable asset of a project which is
submitted for approval. The greater the degree
to which it is likely to be socially useful, the more
likely it is to secure widespread popular approval.
In considering several projects, the ones which
offer the greatest degree of usefulness to the
community are likely to be selected.

The employment of supervisors in connection
with work projects was discussed at considerable
length. Non-relief people can be used for positions
as supervisors in connection with relief projects
only as their employment makes it possible to use
other people on relief for projects that are socially
useful. In this respect supervisors are like cement,
tools and other necessary materials.

The difference between cities in the degree of
supervision provided is due in a large measure
to the extent to which the city shares with the
federal authorities in providing relief funds. The
latitude allowed a municipality in this respect de-
pends somewhat on the amount of money con-
tributed by the local community and the state.
“I myself would hesitate placing a full-time pay,
non-relief supervisor on a job that didn’t employ
quite a number of relief people. My own mental
picture is that somewhere less than ten per cent

of the total cost of the project should go into
other than relief channels.”

The delay in securing approval of projects is
often due to the great amount of desirable things
to be done. The demands for relief money are far
in excess of the supply. Often one project cannot
be approved until some others are completed. The
administrator has a huge task of selecting from
the great mass of new applications those which
most merit approval. Projects submitted should
be so specific as to make their approval a matter
of routine without additional checking. Relief
officials would welcome the opportunity of doing
everything that everybody wants done but with
the multiplicity of projects under consideration
this is entirely out of the question.

The problem of securing continuity of projects
is a part of the same problem and is a difficult
one. It is often impossible to anticipate needs and
the ability to meet them. Extensions of projects
are often delayed because other commitments re-
quire all available funds and it is only possible to
continue projects when, because others are com-
pleted, funds are available with which to continue
them.

Localities Must Share Responsibility

The importance of cooperation on the part of
states and cities in sharing the relief burden was
repeatedly emphasized. Federal funds are not
able to carry the entire load. Frequently approval
of local projects hinges in part on the diSposition
of the city to help put up money, materials and
supervision—in other words, to go part way in
making the project possible.

“This insistence upon state and local participa-
tion in funds is something we can't Speak too
strongly about; the amount of money available
for unemployment relief through federal sources
is nowhere near enough nor has it been since we
began this show for the proper care of unemploy-
ment in this country. A community that is willing
to put money into this show can go a lot farther
than a community that depends entirely upon
federal aid. When we say that there is a different
picture in one community as against another, we
have got to look at the whole picture and the
whole picture includes the financing of the work
project.”

The maximum hours of employment for relief
workers are definitely fixed by the federal admin-
istration. Manual workers may not be used more

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 401

than 24 hours per week and professional, technical
and clerical workers not more than 35 hours per
week. Recreation executives must assume that
people who are to be assigned them are not going
to be available for regular full-time use. Many
people only work three days a week, so if full-
time service is needed executives should ask for
twice as many workers. Various adjustments can
be made in local assignments in order to meet
special needs. For example, persons may be as-
signed on a monthly rather than a daily or weekly
basis. The matter of specific hours can frequently
be arranged within the regulations established as
to the total number of hours. An example of
adjusting hours to special needs was cited in the
case of symphony orchestra players who are
credited not only with the time spent at concerts
but also at rehearsals. Obviously their schedule
of hours is subject to considerable adjustment.

Local Assignment Service Being Organized

A promise of help in solving the problem of
selecting suitable personnel for positions involving
recreation leadership was offered. Relief authori-
ties are anxious to have persons with special
abilities on the relief rolls utilized to the best
advantage. To this end they are anxious to make
available the best qualified persons for use in
recreation departments. The F. E. R. A. is at-
tempting to inaugurate an assignment service in
the local administrations that will enable persons
to be employed on work they are fitted to do.
This is a big problem because there are a million
and a half people on work relief throughout the
country at the present time. The administration

is attempting not only to put these persons to work

but to maintain their skills which are a natural
resource in this country just as our forests and
our soil. Even the inclinations of relief persons
should be kept for such a time as they may find
usefulness in the ordinary channels of affairs.

In discussing the approval of local projects

involving planning, it was
pointed out that relief per-
sons may be employed on all
sorts of projects .whether for
planning a program or for
actually going out and build-
ing baseball diamonds or
whatever else. It doesn’t
make any difference to the
federal government so long

llIf your friends and my friends and your
neighbors and mine' who through no fault
of their own have been without work'
some for months and others for years.
could have that encouragement and that
warmth and feeling of still belonging that
comes so vividly and so reassuringly from
actual human contact, we could change

the complexion of relief in this country

over nig ht."—Jobn Colt.

as the people who are capable of doing the work
and eligible for relief -are employed on these
projects. The relief administrations in a number
of cities and in some states are giving additional
staffs to planning boards for planning the whole
development of the community or the area. Relief
engineers are working on projects under the
supervision of local and state planning boards for
all types of planning. “You can get relief people
to make a survey of recreational needs and after
the survey has been made and your experts have
decided recreational needs are here and there.
you can get other relief persons for planning the
facilities and then get other relief' persons for
building the facilities and finally relief persons
for staffing the facilities in recreational direction
and support.”

\

The Emergency—An Opportunity
and a Responsibility

Many valuable comments and suggestions were
offered in the course of the discussion of emerg-
ency problems. Repeatedly it was urged that
recreation executives have a responsibility to co-
operate whole-heartedly with the relief authorities.
“There is an emergency. People are out of work
and they need food. They need an opportunity
to do something that they can do. If they are sent
to us and can’t do these things, we should keep
them and place them in positions where they will
do us the most good.”

The necessity of maintaining standards in the
quality of recreation service was also widely re—
cognized. “W'e have an obligation as leaders in
communities where recreation is a governmental
function to maintain a certain standard, and the
public looks to us, having developed a program, as

responsible to them for maintaining that standard.”

In the opinion of Grant D. Brandon of Lancas-
ter, Pennsylvania, recreation executives should be
fearful of standing in the way of evolution or of
trying to block progress. If they do so, they are
likely to be annihilated. He
urged that executives should
not conscientiously turn down
any leadership that can pos-
sibly be used. If workers are
doing their job effectively
they need not fear that emer-
gency workers will take their
jobs away from them. “If
relief labor should supplant

402 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

existing paid leadership, it is the latter’s own mis-
fortune and to a large extent its own fault.”

A warning note was sounded by V. K. Brown
of Chicago, who urged that caution should be
observed in the assignment of relief leaders. He
pointed out that we should work towards com-
munity self-sufliciency in its leisure and that there
is at present a danger of overmanning facilities
and programs now that it is so easy to secure
relief personnel for such service. “I believe that
we have made some mistakes in overmanning our
situations so as to produce recreational dependence,
just as an unwise provision of economic support
is likely to produce economic dependence.”

“I believe we will all agree there is no answer
to universal leisure in a program which builds an
expectancy and habit into our
community of requiring a
personal servant to do the
work for every activity that
is undertaken. Society can-
not permanently build its
leisure activities on that basis,
and I believe our plans
should be rather carefully
considered to see what the
ultimate effect on our com-
munity is of the things that we do.”

Looking Toward the Future

The question as to the types of projects which
should be considered for the immediate future
was discussed by Raymond \V. Robertson of
Oakland. He visualizes the present crisis as a
challenge, a time of adjustment, but if executives
are competent to meet the situation, they have
nothing to fear. If they are not prepared, they
must step aside to make room for others. The
following changes observed by Mr. Robertson.
affecting chiefly adults, indicate future trends.
Tennis courts, game courts and other play areas
are being increasingly lighted for night use,
thereby extending hours of service. Batteries of
courts are being developed instead of single facili-
ties, in order to care for larger numbers. Major
recreation areas are being developed, serving
entire families. More facilities are being
provided for hiking, skiing, camping, dramatics.
music, arts. literature, crafts and clubs. More
should be done in the way of social recreation
leadership and in adult recreation to help people
have a good time in their own way. Information

"I see in this country a new age of pio-
neering, so much more glorious than that
of the old age that there is no compari-
son, and it is a pioneering that is instinct
with greater human riches than anything
we have heard of before. It is a pioneer-
ing in human relationships, and in that
pioneering the surface has just been

scratched."——Jobn Coir.

service regarding facilities and programs should
be increasingly emphasized. Training is more
important than ever before, since the relief group
needs a great deal of training for recreation serv-
ice and the regular workers also need it in order
to be prepared to meet changing conditions.

Mr. Robertson believes recreation executives
should mix more in community life. In addition
to doing their job, they should join groups, at-
tend meetings and mingle with community affairs
in order to better know what the people are
thinking and desiring and also to better c00rdinate
the various recreation services of public and
private agencies.

The afternoon sessions were devoted to a dis-
cussion of a number of general and technical
questions, many of which
have been considered in pre-
vious meetings. Attendance
was high and many execu-
tives contributed to the dis-
cussion, but it was evident
that problems involving co-
operation and those growing
out of the present emergency
situation were commanding
a much higher degree of
interest than some of the topics which were dis-
cussed during the afternoon sessions which were
presided over by James V. Mulholland of New

York City, and K. Mark Cowen of Roanoke,
Virginia, respectively.

The Value of Influential Lay Groups

Questions relating to the methods used by ex-
ecutives in successfully developing stronger lay
support for their program and as to the values
of an advisory recreation council in maintaining
community interest in recreation develOpments
were discussed by Karl Raymond of Minneapolis.
He pointed out that Minneapolis always thought
that under its Park Board it had an ideal set-up
for recreation. There had never been any serious
political interference with the program. During
the first two years of the depression no cut was
made in the budget but in the third year the
recreation program was cut 62% as compared
with a 30% or 35% cut for other public services.
The fact that this severe cut was due in part to
personal disagreement between two individuals
did not lessen the seriousness of the situation.

Minneapolis had never had a citizens’ organiza-

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 403

tion to back up the local recreation authorities
who felt self-satisned to the extent that they
failed to realize the need for a special supporting
group. They realized when their budget was cut,
however, that the people were not aware of what
was going on. People were unable to understand
why their demands for additional service were
not met by the department. This indicated a weak—
ness in that the authorities had been so busy with
the program that they had given no thought to
building up public support. The Park Board itself
believed in recreation but did not feel that it was
of equal importance to other sections of the park
service.

As a result of the situation, a Recreation Asso—
ciation has been created in Minneapolis. No
professional recreation workers are members but
it includes influential and outstanding citizens who
recognize the importance of recreation. This
group is now strongly organized and recently
presented effectively before the city nnance board
the need for a more adequate recreation ap—
propriation.

The value of lay groups to recreation authori—
ties has been demonstrated in Cleveland. Civic or-
ganizations, parent-teacher associations, churches
and other groups in that city have been interested
in the school centers with the result that they
have been ready to support the work. These
groups are taken into the centers where they see
the activities, the benents received and the joy of
the people served. Before a new center is opened,
groups in the neighborhood are invited to make
suggestions as to the program. to support it and to
bring it to the attention of their people. Members
of the Board of Education are also invited to
visit centers, to witness special celebrations and to
take part in classes. Two members of the Board
of Education became interested in and joined an
old-time dance group. As a result, when the bud—
get crisis arrived, these two members, appreciat-
ing the value of the activities, made a strong
appeal for the recreation center appropriation and
a cut was avoided. An inter—community center
council representing the various centers has also
proved an effective means of maintaining a com-
munity interest in recreation.

Special Problems Requiring Study
and Research

Although most recreation workers are now
chiefly concerned with immediate problems relat—

ing to personnel, hnance and programs, it was
evident that additional information based on
special studies and research would be exceedingly
useful in the solution of many of these problems.
Miss Corinne Fonde of Houston, Texas, sug-
gested that the following fields require special
study:

I. How to keep the staff happy, though
underpaid.

2. How to secure .training for recrea—
tional leadership in local colleges and
normal schools. when future leader-
ship cannot afford to seek it afar.

How to “get through” relief projects.
4. How to make the most of relief work-

ers in view of the greatly reduced
supervisory staff and limited materials.

5. How to grasp opportunities which the
present situation affords to develop
municipal camps.

6. How to develop stronger lay support.

7. How to find the time necessary to
effect possible coordination with
other agencies.

8. How to care for certain individuals
who fall in the “no man’s land” be-
tween the case work and the group
work agencies.

9. How to conduct community recreation
centers.

IO. How to develop F. E. R. A. projects

involving higher skills.

Miss Fonde mentioned that the executives look
to the National Recreation Association for leader-
ship and assistance in this held and welcome re—
ports of studies. It was suggested that recreation
developments in other countries afforded a prom-
ising field for research at the present time.

9‘

Standardization of Recreation Activities

V. K. Brown of Chicago opened the discussion
of the question, “Is it time for recreation leaders
to list a series of activities that should be made
fairly general and yet leave room for individuality
and change? \Vhat are such activities ?”

In Mr. Brown’s opinion this is primarily a local
problem. If the recreation department has ade—
quate minimum standards and thoroughly com-
petent leaders, it may not be necessary to make
such a list. Employees in public recreation, how-
ever, are often surrounded by an atmosphere of
relaxation and they must be kept from its deaden-

404 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

ing inlluenee. In the South Park System it was
necessary at one time, in view of the rather un-
satisfactory staff, to outline a definite uniform
program to be carried out in order to overcome
the lack of initiative and to make sure that there
was a minimum of variety in the program. Em-
ployees are now authorized, however, to specialize
and the standardized program has been somewhat
relaxed. In Mr. Brown’s opinion minimum re-
quirements in the way of prescribed activities to
be carried on are necessary in all but the very
best departments.

Changing conditions require constant variations
in program content. Old programs have been
rendered obsolete by the new conditions under
which instead of idle hours people now have idle
half days. People will do a wider variety of things
and they will do them more intensively than they
have heretofore. The criteria of any list of activi-
ties are that it must be balanced. that it must
include the basic fields, such as the physical, the
reereative. the music. the dramatic, the erafts, and
also the fields of the intellectual. the exploratory
and the altruistic. Also. such a list must be season-
ally varied. It must encourage specialization and
answer the questions as to its values in discipline,
self-control and the development of proticiencies.

An activity which has proved exceedingly
worth while and p0pular in Reading, Pennsylvania.
and which it was suggested might well be carried
on in other cities has been a series of illustrated
leetures by nature speeialists. conservation leaders
and world travelers. A large number of the per-
sons who have contributed to this feature have
been residents of the city.

Inter-Playground Activities and
City-Wide Events

The questions, "What are the inter-playground
activities which have proved best through the
years?" and “What is the
best program for city-wide
events in a recreation sys-
tem?” elieited considerable
(liSCUSSion and seemed to be
very elosely related in the
minds of the executives who
took part. In introdueing the
first question, Miss Sophie
Fishback of Lakewood, Ohio,
pointed out that competition
was an important factor in

"The general impression of the recrea-
tion executives' meeting was that an only local
earnest group of competent men and
women were thoroughly aware of the
changing demands of the new day, were
malting every effort to participate co-
operatively with all the other social forces
and especially the new factors among
these new forces in an attempt to serve,
with all the available community re-
sources, the growing recreational needs
of their communities."

determining the answer. Different local eonditions
and experiences influence the decision which
should be reached by an individual eity. In Lake-
wood inter-playground drama tournaments and
inter-playground eompetition in handcraft have
been discontinued from the program. Soft ball
competition between playgrounds. on the other
hand, has proved satisfactory, though speeial at-
tention must be paid to age classifications and to
the appointment of neutral officials. An annual
inter-playground track meet and a gymnasium
meet have also proved satisfactory in Lakewood.

A. E. Center of Pontiac, Michigan. in discussing
city-wide events, raised a number of questions
such as whether eity-wide events were valuable,
who should participate, whether such events
should be conducted only by public departments
or jointly by public and private agencies. what age
groups should take part, and whether the values
and publicity resulting from sueh events are worth
the cost and effort required to conduct them.

The reported local experiences with inter-play-
ground activities and city-wide events were so
varied as to suggest that local eonditions are an
important factor in determining the answers to
the questions relating to them. The distance be-
tween playgrounds. necessitating the provision of
transportation and of adult supervision in the case
of children's groups, was mentioned as an import-
ant factor in limiting inter—playground activities.
In some cities natural neighborhood districts are
used as a basis for such activities. Problems of
discipline and sportsmanship were cited as a reason
for discontinuing them, whereas the values of
inter--playground competition in terms of play
standards and sportmanship were emphasized as
reasons for such activities. Athletic eompetition
can be overdone and needs careful direction. but
inter-playground competition, even in dramatics,
was urged because of its potential values.

The question as to how to
meet the contention of muni-
cipal officials and others that
workers, even
though not qualified, can be
employed for important posi-
tions of local leadership in
recreation was discussed by
Miss Esther Fitderald of
Utica. New York. Mueh
depends upon the individual
eity, and to some extent upon

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS 405

the length of time the program has been estab—
lished, in determining whether qualified people
can be employed from outside the city. People
will be brought to realize the importance of quali-
fications when they have seen qualified people on
the job. It has been found valuable to secure the
help of parent-teacher associations, service clubs
and other citizens’ groups in demanding trained
recreation leadership. One executive suggested
that the argument for the employment of local
persons might be met by pointing out that such
a ruling applied elsewhere prevents local people
from securing employment in other cities.

A definite trend was noted toward the employ-
ment of local people as playground leaders and
for other subordinate positions. Recreation ex-
ecutives must be prepared to train them for ef-
fective service. The problem of adequate training
is especially difficult in smaller communities with-
out an experienced executive and it was suggested
that larger cities should invite staff workers from
smaller nearby communities to participate in their
training courses for workers.

Backyards, Neighborhood and Vacant Lots

Present conditions make it highly important
that recreation authorities plan a program of ex-
pansion and use of all available play spaces, public
and private, in the community, in order to ade-
quately provide for the increasing numbers seek-
ing leisure time activity. Further evidence of this
need was pointed out by Allen T. Edmunds of
Amsterdam, New York. Leisure time needs are
expanding while the community provision for
leisure time services in some cities is contracting.
Equipment, instruction and all facilities connected
with sports in city recreation areas are generally
inadequate. Restricted financial support from both
public and private SOUrces has caused most of the
inadequacies, and both public and private agencies
have suffered further drastic budget cuts which
have resulted in the further curtailment of services
and in the overwork of personnel.

Following are some of the methods suggested
by Mr. Edmunds in securing more effective use
of backyards: Educational campaigns, utilizing
all forms of publicity; preparation of bulletins on
backyard games; designing plans for homemade
apparatus; conducting poster contests in the
schools; using the relief workers for service in
home recreation; conducting short institutes for
parents; and backyard playground contests.

Emphasis was laid upon the importance of
making plans to assure adequate and proper pro-
vision for needed recreation areas. Such planning
involves the cooperation of city planning agencies,
boards of education, housing authorities, parent-
teacher associations, churches and other agencies.
Since the acquisition and development of such
areas and facilities involve considerable expendi-
ture, it was pointed out that the general education
of the public on the need for them is of primary
importance and also on the need for trained, com-
petent and continuous leadership of a high
character.

Fees and Charges

Considerable interest was evidenced in the ques-
tions relating to methods of meeting the demand
for larger income through additional fees and
charges and the possible results from such a policy.
“There is much truth in the saying that what is
free does not have the value that comes when
one has made a sacrifice. \Ve are getting too many
things free,” said E. K. Thomas of Providence,
Rhode Island. In his opinion areas and facilities
should be provided from government funds but
the operation of these facilities should be met to
a considerable extent through fees and charges
for their use. Special services should be paid for
by those who receive them. Not alone does Mr.
Thomas believe that this principle applies to the
field of recreation but he expressed the opinion
that even education beyond the grammar school
might well be paid for by the persons benefited.

Different results from levying fees for the use
of facilities were reported. In Detroit. where
tennis courts were formerly used without charge,
they tried the experiment of charging for the use
of the courts. The result was that there was a
70% decrease in the amount of tennis played. In
other words, “the amount of money collected was
just sufficient to pay the man who sat around to
see that people did not play.” The advisability
of such a procedure at this time when so many
citizens are out of work and are unable to pay for
their recreation was seriously questioned.

On the other hand. experiences reported in
other cities indicated that the charging of moder—
ate fees had not decreased participation and at
the same time had made it possible to maintain
facilities in good condition. In St. Petersburg,
Florida. for example, groups have been organized
according to interest, and membership fees vary

*‘lUl THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES DISCUSS VITAL PROBLEMS

A Complete Success
In Every Locath

HE AMERICAN WAVE STRIDE illustrated

above has been on the market and in use
on playgrounds for over three years. and
from every section we receive unanimous ap-
proval and enthusiastic praise of the safety
features and long wearing qualities of this
great device. Over 35 children can play at
one time on this pepular device and it can't
be beat for exercise.

STRENGTH....DURAB|L|TY and
SAFETY IS OUR GUARANTEE

Engineering and construction advantages
male American the leader of all play equip-
ment. Every device we manufacture is safe
and practical . . . proven without questionl
This assures absolute satisfaction to all users.

 

SEND FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE

- a- Send for complete catalogue R‘IB . . . it is
: chuck full of items that will make your play-
grounds efiicient. Our engineering staff
will help you plan and suggest best possible
arrangement and devices to fill yOur re-

quirements.

AMERICAN

PLAYGRO U N D DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON e e e INDIANA

   

 

from $3 to $10 per year. Income from these
groups not only covers all operating expenses but
in some cases has built new facilities. The same
results might not be secured in other cities, how-
ever, as in St. Petersburg where facilities are
used to a large extent by tourists.

The suggestion was made that in cities where
facilities are used by large numbers of persons
living outside the city, permits might be granted
to local residents and charges be levied on the use
of facilities by non-residents.

Responsibility for Players’ Injuries

james S. Stevens of Greenwich, Connecticut,
offered a number of suggestions as to the extent
to which recreation departments should be re-
sponsible for injuries to players under their super-
vision. He pointed out that this responsibility
depends upon state and local legislation. A recrea-
tion executive should find out whether recreation
in his city is considered by the courts a govern-
mental or proprietary function. He should secure
from the city attorney a definite ruling on the
question of the city’s responsibility for injuries.
The public and also workers in the department
should be informed as to the department's legal
responsibility in this matter. Reference was made
to the valuable information in a report available
from the National Recreation Association. (Cat'-
crnmcutal and Proprietary Functions. Price $. 50.) .

Definite reports should be made of all injuries.
indicating the hrst aid treatment given and the
disposition of the case. Such reports should be
made available to legal authorities. Regardless
of the legal responsibility, recreation departments
have a moral responsibility which must not be
overlooked. \Vorkers should be impressed with
the obligation which rests upon them for prevent-
ing accidents. Activities which are too dangerous
must be avoided. A dehnite program for the treat-
ment of injuries is eSsential. It was pointed out
that there is a danger to a recreation department
in assuming a moral responsibility in that it may
increase the demands made upon it in case of
accidents.

Recreation As a Socially Useful Field
of Employment

(it 'trrtfmrrd from [our 3.74)
see. the steady fruition «f these high aims and

ideals which art- so much needed in this country
of mrs tr day

THE ART OF ABUNDANT LIVING

The Ari: of Abundant Living .

(Continued from page 365)

help people to find abundant life, not inoanesthetic
recreation that opiates fatigue and worry, nor in' a
superimposed program of routine physical activity,
nor in shoddy arts and crafts, nor in musical and
dramatic activities that are just time-consuming.
Recreational leadership is not, in the future, to be
confined to places—to parks or playgrounds or
schools or community centers; nor is it, to be con—
fied to agencies-———to school boards, or park or rec-
reation boards; or to recreation leaders. Only
those will be leaders in the recreation movement
'of the future who can really help men and women
and children to find for themselves the interests
that will help them to grow, to live and to enjoy—
who will bring them into fruitful opportunities
for development and for progress in skills, who
can make the ideals of excellence in music, in
drama, the graphic and plastic arts, games and
sports, social relations, enjoyment of nature and
all the rest, so winning and so attractive that there
shall be constant temptation to move on toward
the better and the best, who shall know that in
routine and in set programs and in schedules of
activity there are, to be sure, sometimes genuine
helps, but sometimes only obstacles, and that these
are only stepping stones and starting places from
which interesting life can begin. The challenge
to those who are today in the forefront of what
we know as the recreation movement is basic and
acute. Can they, in these new days and with the
new set of facts today, make the adjustments in
organization and service through which age-old

human nature can as never before be helped to
live abundantly?

Centers for Unemployed in Toledo—The

Division of Recreation of Toledo, Ohio, during
the past winter has operated two centers for
the unemployed. One is in a large building
with auditorium and smaller rooms formerly
used as a music conservatory, where activities
are largely dramatic, including the making of
scenery and costumes. Repairs to the building
were made through C.W.A.; the Division of
Recreation is supplying light, heat and janitor
service. Thirteen leaders were furnished by
C. W. A. The second center is a former medi-
cal school building. Here gymnasium classes,
boxing, wrestling, tap dancing and other activi—
ties make up the program. A number of C.W.
A. workers are providing leadership.

   

BRING
EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New EverWear Spring—Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR-206, (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special. EverWear-designed. fabric-re-
enforced. tough, springy. long-Wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber. which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel, as to give a soft. Springy. resilient.
swing seat of remarkable safety. strength and
durability.

   

All outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETY! All top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETYI All edges are
soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETYl AII ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-
mediater spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETYI No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETY! No wood enters its construction: it can-

not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETYl Requires
no painting. .

Suspension clevises are reversible, making both sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the
life of the seat): DURABILITYI Rubber tough.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITYI Spring

steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITYI
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an

active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH! Edge-
ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure
or blows (adding further to its SAFETYI) .

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY] Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the

playground ($4.50 each. net, f. o. b. Springfield,
Ohio, U. S. A. Price subject to change without

notice) : ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOWll

BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by
The EverWear Manufacturing Company
Springfield. Ohio. U. S. A.

The World’s oldest and largest exclusive maker of play-
ground, beach and poo! apparatus; a complete line of the
SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

 

407

408 THE CHRISTMAS PLAY FOR EVERYONE

EATING...VISITIN6...
READING...

Are Westchester County's most important leisure
activities. reports George A. Lundberg. whose
thorough investigation of spare time pursuits
in a typical prosperous suhurb ls interestingly

LEISURE

A SUBURBAN STUDY. $3.00

Here is a book that shows the trend in American
leisure activities. that indicates how various

groups spend their tree hours.

It throws light On what we will or could do with
increased ielsure when and it the prophecies of
the optimists of the Machine Age come true.

In studying the reading habits of Westehester resi-
dents. Mr. Lundberg round that “possibly a great
many people read fiction because of the relative
lnaccesslblllty or easily readable non-fiction. It
has. in fact. been demonstrated that there is a
wide discrepancy between what people actually
read and what they would like to read. . . ."

“Inaccessibiiity . . . of what they would like to read"
need hold true no longer tor those interested in
important non-fiction. For such pe0pie there is:

COLUMBIA BOOKS

l893-l933

This dletlonary-eatalogue is the modern way to guide
serious reading. You need only know your own
requirements. Columbia Books gives you the infor-

mation about our books completely. easily and
quickly.

The charge of 31.00 for Columbia Books is refundable
by means of a coupon in each copy good for 81.00
worth of our books either from us or at your
bookstore.

--—-—_-— -_---- ———- --’-—- -—-

Columbia Universily Press. 2960 Broadway. New York City.

1 enclose 81.00 for whieh send me one eopy of
COLUMBlA BOOKS 1893-1933—eontuining the rebate
eoupon good for a 81.00 credit. I understand that I will
receive all supplementary Seasonal Announcements tree
of charge.

Signed 

00.000.008.008...l....0........l........

 0.0..0......00......OOOOOOIIIIOOOOIOIUOOOOCOO

 eeeeeoeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeleeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeoe

The Christmas Play For Everyone
(Continued from page 3?6)

of games apprOpriate to the occasion. W'omans Press.
Sue.

The Pampered Darling by Beatricc McNeil. Six
men. two young boys. three women. Excellent for young
people of 15 or 16. When Victor Gibbons icarns that his
two older sisters are going away for Christmas. leaving
him behind. hc writes a note stating that he has suddenly
become deaf and dumb. They are alarmed and shower
him with attention. His ills are quickly cured when
Janet's fiance. a young medical student. suggests an im-
mediate operation. VValter H. Baker Company. 35¢.

Santa At Sea by Yale and Eldridge. Six principals and
extras. Santa meets with an accident and is picked up at
sea. A novel cantata for community entertainments or
Sunday School. Especially useful when the Christmas
tree is featured and small gifts are given to children n:
the audience. Eldridge Entertainment House. 40¢.

The Christmas Jest by Frances Gillespy Wickes. From
twelve to fifteen children may participate. one small boy.
Especially recommended for 15 or i6 year old boys and
girls. A medieval play in which the king changes places
with his jester on Christmas Eve and learns a lesson
from the court fool. In A Child's Book of Holiday Plays.
The Macmillan Company. 66 Fifth Avenue. New York
City. 80¢.

The Snatenmn -by Elsa Beskow. Seven children. one
adult. A Swedish Christmas play. The story of a niiscr
and what happened to him when he fell asleep on the
doorstep of his neighbor's house. A delightful and au-
thentic atmosphere of Swedish fairy lore distinguishes
this play Iby one of the most noted of Swedish writers.
W'alter H. Baker Company. 35¢.

Home for the Holidays by A. W'. Norton. Twenty-three
characters and extras. A community Christmas play with

much humor and some pathos. Penn Publishing Com-
pany. 925 Filbert Strect. Philadelphia. 25¢.

For experienced groups the following plays are

recommended :

The Christmas Child Comes In by Katharine Kester.
Two acts. Large cast. Old Trail Town resolves nm to
keep Christmas. as it is an unnecessary expense. But at
heart the peOple want to celebrate and seize on the com-
ing of a child to a neighbor's house as a just cause for
celebration. Walter H. Baker Company. 35¢. Royalty $5.00.

The Lighting of the Christnms Tree by josephine
Palmer and Annie L. Tliorp. Three men. two women.
two little boys. A beautiful legendary play based on thc
story by Sehna Lageriof. Olga fears to take an old
musician. a friend of her husband. into her home because
he is a drunkard but learns to value his art and his es-
sentialiy line nature. Samuel French. 25 \\’est 45th Street.
New York City. 35¢. Royalty $5.00.

A Pointing for the Duchess by Marion llolbrook.
Four men. six womcn. six childrcn. extras if desired.
Basil. a young painter. delies his patroncss. the Duchess.
and is saved from ruin by a miracle. When the cruel
woman demands the picture he has not painted. the can-
vas is uncovcred and a painting of the Madonna is
miraculously revealed. Dramatic Publishing Company.
35¢. No royalty when ten c0pies are purchased.

SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 409

Summaries of Discussion

Group Meetings

(Continued from page 392)
resentatives came out of those long sessions with
clearer understanding of the strategy of the game
of team play between the home neighborhoods and

their national government agents.

Turning attention then to the techniques of
building more effective machinery for harnessing
neighborhood effort, the matter of organization

of community effort and of deeper local study and G I V E P I T C H I N 6

strategy was explored. Programs were scrutinized,

activities debated, extensions to the home and the   

home yard were given some attention.

A new motivation of human endeavor—being,  

doing and thinking———leaped into the ascendant and

 

A gift all sport lovers will appreciate the

unconscious of its significance we switched our year round, Packed in brighuy “gored boxes,
allegiance from King Croesus to Prophet —either in pairs as illustrated or in sets of

_ _ four with stakes in sturdy wooden boxes.
Aristotle. \Vhere shall thIS new youth now crowd- However packed—Diamond omciaI priching
ing the wings of our Stage fmd freedom, with Horeshoes are winners in the preference of

. . . . in th t d f ' I I .
the sky the limit? Not 1n the regimented controls 0 ma em a" P” “m” P "lie"

of a career of accumulating wealth of possessions, D I A M O N D

but rather in a career of accumulating treasure

of the spirit. The career of the Edison, the    E CO-
Lindbergh, the Darwin, the Christopher Wren 46'0 GRAND AVENUE

or the Pasteur becomes the new field of the cloth DULUTH' MINN'

of gold, civilization’s new arena of high adventure.
We are moving as a people in common rhythm

and st 'aighte led 1ks, towa d e s c' l c -
quest—La contiuestrzolf the art (Iii fiviln:r 0 1a on S WI M M I N G P  L D
NOTE: The remaining summaries will appear in the   

December issue.

A Children's Christmas Party 1934 Edition

(COHnHMCd from page  (formerly Notable Swimming Pools and Guide to
only the Christmas tree lighted. The distribution Equipment and Supplied

of oranges and candy concludes the program.
A troop of Boy Scouts aids the department
and Santa in giving out the oranges and candy. price $2.00
Regretful that the party is over, yet thrilled, the
children leave for their respective homes and in-

-stitutions eagerly awaiting the arrival of the next WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

Christmas season and what the Department of
Public Recreation has in store for them. LEGAL DEGISIONS’ LIABILITY’ IN.

The whole affair is financed quietly through a SURANCE: POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

letter appeal signed by the President of the Rec- ITATION, P001, MANAGEMENT, ETc,
reation Board and sent to fifty well-to-do citizens. '

We always receive plenty of money to carry out
.our plans each year.

NOTE: This is only one type of program suggested HOFFman-Harnsl Inc‘

for a children's Christmas party. Others may be secured . 404 Fourth Avenue New York City
'by writing to the author of this article and including 10¢ I

for postage and mimeographing.

 

410 IVORLD AT PLAY

All shots are tee-shots 1n

TEEBALL

America's new major sport!

Offers maximum opportunity for recreation. development
and exercise of athletic ability. Fast driving game adapted
to a small playing area. For team. medal. or individual
participation. Accepted by leading schools. Quality equip-

ment at sensible prices.

Address: H. CASSEL HINCKLEY — P. O. Box 2

Bethayres. Penna.

A New Recreation Center in Rayville, Lou-
isiana —— The recreation center developed in
Rayville, Louisiana, was the seat of the old
Richland Parish fair grounds. of forty acres
which have been purchased by the Richland
Parish Public Recreation Department for
$2,400 on a self—liquidating basis, interest de-
ferred for three years and payments divided
over a twenty year period. The City of Ray-
ville contributed $250 and Richland Parish
$500 toward the initial cost of materials. The
R. F. C. provided the labor for construction.

 

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
ONE PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK

Enclosed find
with the .. .,   .. issue.

 

Pontiac’s Summer Play Program—Attend-
ance at the play program provided by the City
Recreation Department during the summer
months reached the highest peak since the or-
ganization of the department in l 22. During
June, July and August a total attendance of
234,924 people was reported at all the activities
conducted. This total for the summer months
showed an increase of 28% over the entire at-
tendance registered for all of last year. F.E.R.A.
funds provided thirty-one leaders, in addition to
thirty workers paid from city funds.

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE

$1.00 a Year

SPECIAL OFFER FREE!

0 A set of six colored safety posters will be given
FREE with every new yearly subscription.

0 SAFETY EDUCATION is the only magazine
devoted entirely to child safety problems. The
material is based on seasonal activities and
consists of colored posters, graded lesson
plans, informational articles, short plays, stor-
ies, assembly programs, patrol news items, etc.

$1.00 a Year

.  for which please send SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE beginning

Enclosed find Sl.75 for SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE and the Special Playground Packet.

Name  .. .. ..-....  

Address
City and State

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 411

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

l Recently Received Containing Articles l

of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The Epworth Highroad, September 1934
A Moving Day Party, by Lynn Rohrbough

The Jou-nal of Health and Physical Education,

September 1934 o o
A New Course on Hobbies—an EdltOI‘lal .
A Report on the National Study of Professmnal
Education in Health and Physical Education, by

N. P. Neilson
The Game of American Ball

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

October 1934
American Country Dances from Alabama to Ar-

kansas, collected by Edythe E. Saylor
The ‘Game of Lacrosse, by Joseph Shacter

Simball _ .
Faculty Recreatlon Committee

Physical Education, Health and Recreation Digest,

October 1934 o
A Playground Health Educatlon Program, by Floyd

A. Rowe .
Adult Education for Leisure, by William \V. Biddle
The Responsibility of Public Agencies in Providing

for Leisure-Time Activities, by William G.

Robinson
Leisure and Small Town Youth, by Ella Gardner
Educational Uses of Play Programs, by Carrol D.

Champlin

American Forests, October 1934

The Great Smoky Mountains Park, by Carlos C.
Campbell

The American City, October 1934

New Jobs in the Recreation Field—The Springfield
Recreation Project, by Elizabeth S. Moqum
A Country Park for City Dwellers—#and Others

The National Parent—Teacher Magazine, October 1934

A Party for Hallowe’en, by Sophia Yarnall
Conservation of Recreation, by Catheryne Cooke
Gilman

PAMPH LETS

Wisconsin Reading Circle Annual l934—l935; issued by
the State Reading Circle Board, M. H. Jackson, Sec-
retary, State Department of Public Instruction, Madi-
son, Wisconsin

Fifth Annual Report of the Recreation Commission,
Amsterdam, New York, 1933

National Negro Health Week Report

National Negro Health News, Volume 2, Number 2,
U. S. Public Health Service, \Vashington, D. C.

Games of Many Lands

A four page mimeographed bulletin issued by the Na-
tional Council for Prevention of War, 532 Seven-
teenth Street, N. \V., Washington, D.C.

Public Recreation—Oakland, California

A thirty-two page illustrated report of the Board of
Playground Directors for 1933-1934

Have You A Set of Guides?

Publications compiled by the RULES AND EDITORIAL COMMITTEE
WOMEN'S ATHLETIC SECTION. AMERICAN PHYSICAL
EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

Official Playing Rules for Girls' and Women's Sports

Chairman

No_ 38_R Jane Shurmer, University of
Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh. Pa.

Betty Cadbury. Germantpwn.
Pennsylvania.

Field Hockey
and Lacrosse

Soccer N°_ ||6_R Laura Huelster. University of
Illinois. Urbana.
Field Ba" Laura Huelster. University of
' Illinois. Urbana.
Speed Ba" Dorice Myers. George Washington

High School. Los Angeles, Calif.
Basketball and No. |2|_R Marie Simes. Notre Dame ot

. t . Maryland. Baltimore.
Omc'als Rahng Marjorie Hillas. Teachers College.

Columbia University, N. Y. C.

No, |25.R Marjorie Camp. University of
Iowa. Iowa City.

No, |24.R Harriet Aull. Smith College.
Northampton. Mass.

Water Sports

Winter Sports
and Outing Clubs

Baseball No. |7_R Margaret Meyer. University of

Wisconsin. Madison.
Athletic Handbook No. Il5-R

Athletic Games Theresa Anderson. North High
School. Des Moines, Iowa.
Track and Field

Amy Howland, Public Schools.
Mount Vernon. N. Y.
Volley Ball

Mora Crossman. Playground Ath-
letic League, Baltimore. Md.

New Committees and Chairmen
(no publications)

Eleanor Schroeder. Wellesley Col-

Individual Sports
lege. Wellesley.

Golf. Tennis. Archery

Motion Pictures Gladys Palmer, Ohio State Uni-

versity. Columbus.

 

Order Guides by number from Local Dealers in Athletic Goods or

AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING CO.
|05 Nassau Street, New YorI: City

 

 

A Swimming Pool for Salem—More than
30,000 people attended the dedication of the
mammoth outdoor salt water swimming pool
in Salem, Massachusetts, known as the J. C. B.
Smith Memorial Swimming Pool. The pool,
built on unsightly mud flats, has a water sur-
face across of 9% acres, and is 700 feet long
and 600 feet wide. The average depth of water
is 8 feet with a special shallow area for little
children. Beneath the 30 foot diving tower and
10 meter diving board the water will have a
depth of 18 feet. The ocean is separated from
the pool by a dam of sheet steel piling 9% feet
high. On the other three sides it is bounded
by beautifully landscaped terraces. Beaches
along the retaining wall of the causeway and in
front of the spacious bath house provide a large
space for spectators and bathers. The pool was
constructed at a cost of nearly $300,000 by gov-

ernment funds aided by a bequest from the
Smith estate.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Homemade Games

By Arthur H. Lawson. J. B. Lippincott Company. Phila-
delphia. Pa.. $2.00.
"HOMEMADE Games” is an especially timely book for
these days when we have little money and lots of
time to spend. It is the perfect recipe for the father who
likes to putter around the cellar workshOp with his son,
or the crafts teacher who must turn out something useful
because his budget is iimited. or for the person who wants
to make something which is his very own because he has
made every bit of it from start to finish.

Skillful drawings show step by step how the games are
made and what they look like when they are finished. The
games are well selected. including most of the better
known games. such as Table Tennis. Paddle Tennis.
Shuftieboard. Box Hockey and Tether Ball. as well as
such less known games as Buzz Ball. Cockamaroo.
Halma and Nine Men’s Morris. A number of games
have unique adaptations which the author has originated.
Exo and Black Diamond are ingenious variations of the
well known game of Bull Board. Fortyniner. the object
of which is to "stake out your claim before the other fel-
low beats you to it." is an exciting board game for two
players which harks back to the gold-panning days of ’49.

The book. which includes directions for building and
for playing games for both indoors and outdoors. is dis-
tinguished by the clear and informal manner in which it
is written. A glossary of wood-workers’ terms defines
unfamiliar words for the amateur and a well arranged
index of games and games equipment adds greatly to its
usefulness. There is a foreword by Angelo Patri.

American City Annual—I933-34

Edited by Harlean James. American City Association.
90l Union Trust Building. Washington, D. C.. $3.00.
m; I’ll-‘1'" successors to the initial volume appearing in
I929. this Annual will be of interest to all who are
working for the preservation. protection and improve-
ment of the scenic and recreational assets of America.
Each year the Annual considers a new range of topics.
This year the summary emphasizes the scope of such
government enterprises as the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity. the Civilian Conservation Corps. the Public Works
Administration and others dealing with physical planning.
The outstanding projects of the federal government for
the planned utilization of the natural resources of the
country are interpreted by experts who are close to ad-
ministrative centers. Original articles by civic workers.
landscape architects. city planners and engineering spe-
ciaiists are grouped under the following heads: The Na-
tion. Regional Planning. in the States and in the Cities
and Towns.

412

"Kit" 37
Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Published by
Lynn Rohrbougli. Delaware. Ohio. $.25.
"KIT" .37 is a particularly interesting issue devoted to
traditional games and puzzle-making. There are.
too. equipment notes suggesting some homemade games.

One Act Plays for Women

Selected by A. P. Sanford. Dodd. Mead & Company.
New York. $2.50.

HERE HAS LONG been a need for such a compilation as

Mr. Sanford has presented in One Ac! Plays for
Women. This collection contains more than a dozen one
tct plays presenting an intereSting variety from which to
choose. The costuming and scenery in each case are
simple and inexpensive.

Easy Blackouts

Fitzgerald Publishing Corporation. New York. $.50.

ms museum: of short comedy sketches by various

authors will help fill the ever present need for skits
which are so pepular today. Amateur groups of all kinds
will find this collection of eighteen sketches exceedingly
valuable. Such groups may produce the sketches without
payment of royalty provided at least two copies of the
printed book have been purchased.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association
OFFICERS

users: LIE. President

onx H. qur. First Wee-President
Jon: C. \VINANT. Seeond Vice-President
ROIIIT Gaunt. Third Viee‘President
GUSTAV!!! T. Riser. Treasurer

“owns: 5. Baaucan. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Enwsso W. Btoou Csrlisle. Ps.
Wtusu llurrnwosrn. sloline. lil.
Cuuxcs M. Cunt. Philadelphia. Pa.
[latter L. COIIITT Portland Ore.
Mas. Ashton 6. Conan, foeksonviiie Fis.
F. Tsusn Dawson. Locus-1 Valle . l... in N. Y.
Mas. Tnouas A. Enison’ West range. N. J.
onx ll. FINLIY, New \o-rk. N. Y.

osur Gussrr. Baltimore. Md.
Acsrtx E. Gstrrtrns. Sealtie. Wash.
Cnssus linen, New York. N. Y.
Mas. Cnasus Y. tltcxox. Michigan City. ind.
Mrs. Francis DILACY Ural, Plsintieid. N. J.
Gusrsvus '1'. Russ New \ork. N. Y.
n. McK. Lawson, indianspolis. Ind.
Mes. Cnsstss D. Lsxtss. Greenwich. Conn.
ROIIIT LAIIITII, Charlotte. N. C.

ossrn Ln. Boston. Mass.

.owsso E. Looms. New York N. Y.
Ml. MeCusor. Sprin field. .\ us.

0 T. Msuur. Phi Ideiphia. Pa.

\Vsuzs A. Mar. Pittsburgh. Pa.
Cast. E. MILLIII‘I, Au usis. Me.
Mas. Ooosx L. Mien. \‘oodbury. N. Y.
Mas. lanes W. Wsnswosrn. Js.. Washington. D. C.
1:. C. \Yaun New York. N. Y.

IZDIIICI: 3f. “'uwso. New York. N. Y.
our! 6. Wins". Cooeord. N. H.
.lss. \VILLIAH ll. Wootmt. Js.. Tucson. Ariz.

