Helping Men 'to Be Happy

ELPING MEN AND WOMEN to be happy here and now is to become one of the major responsi-
bilities of government.

The American citizen has in the past thought of his government as clearing the way for
rugged individuals to build bigger and bigger barns stuffed full of material goods. The lure of material
goods has not grown less. But even the rugged man who has succeeded in nlling his barn is not
happy when ten millions of his fellowmen are without work month after month.

What has happened? Immigrants no longer come. Children are born less frequently. Frontiers
have disappeared. Machines do much of the work of men. The time “comes and will soon be here
when the population of the United States will actually decline. Fewer people-——fewer purchases, less
work for the men who remain. Meanwhile machines and inventions increase apace while men grow
proportionately fewer in number.

Property itself commits suicide except as it provides employment. except as it provides wages
with which men may purchase. Lending men money with which to buy ultimately means much the
same as giving money away—except as employment is provided.

Building bigger and bigger barns and stufiing them full of material goods, building more and
bigger factories will never again give enough work so that all men may labor. Millions upon mil-
lions of machine slaves do more and more of the work of the world and the hands of the clock will
not turn backward. Men are in the grip of forces bigger than themselves.

Work men may have——but not enough to give labor to all—except there be a great extension
of art, of education, of recreation. of movements for the prevention of disease. When man starts out
to make his world beautiful, full of men who can create beauty of line, of color, of sound; when
man starts out to give every human being the kind of education that will mean the most “durable sat-—
isfaction" throughout life; when each man according to his capacity and taste is given opportunity
for vital, rich, abun'dant living in his play and recreation hours; when man applies in the field of
health the knowledge he now possesses.—-—then there will be more work than there are men to do.

How is such work—such service to mankind to be financed? That is another story. Of this let
us be sure. however, there is no good in pouring money into capital goods industry to revive trade if
the manufactured products cannot be sold. Our substance we have wasted in building unneeded com-
petitive plants, in eXtravagantly destroying our capital—when there was much work waiting to be
done in the world in producing human happiness. and when such expenditures for happiness would _
have been a great monument to our times. We are built so that we cannot be happy ourselves even if
we have work while ten million are idle, while an army of three and a quarter million of youth come
up to siXteen years of age each year in a world in which there is little for them to look forward to in
the way of work. Our own happiness, our own sanity, our keeping of our own souls depend upon
our nnding real and not made work for every capable, able-bodied person. We ourselves are safe in
ourselves only as the world of work is reStored. Otherwise we are all lost together.

In years gone by idle men would perhaps have been whipped into an army to make war on a
neighboring people. In the lield of education, recreation. health, art. service there is work for an un-
told army. In a c00perative world there can be some cooperative plan for using enough able citizens

in an army of service to do away with unemployment.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

AUGUST, 1934

 

217

 

Leisure And Its Use

By NICHOLAS MURRAY BUTLER, Ph.D.

NB OF THE most obvious
0 objects of education and
of life itself it to learn
how to live. That means two
things: first, that one must

make life physically possible
by such compensated effort as

“The right balance between work
and leisure, the development of
those wants which increase the
value of work and of those tastes
which increase the value of leisure,
are at the bottom of the problem of
human cducation.”—Dr. Nicholas

Murray Butler in Report for 1924.

of the nervous system. The
strain on the nerves of a brain
worker of any kind is very
serious and very severe during
the hours of occupation, wheth-
er these be long or short. True
relaxation, therefore, “should

will provide the necessities of

physical existence and comfort

for himself and those dependent on him; and sec-
ond, that one will seek to find and to make op-
portunity to use his human capabilities and abili-
ties in larger and non-material ways and fashions,
both for his own individual satisfaction and for
the good of his kind.

The first of these we call work, and the second
we call leisure. There is a vast difference between
leisure and unemployment. Unemployment means
an absence of work, and that destroys the basis
for real leisure. Unemployment merely fills the
hours of the day with worry and anxiety. So long
as work is not available, leisure is impossible,
since leisure is the outgrowth and accompaniment
of successful work.

An immense proportion of the population of the
modern world has known very little of leisure and
still less of enjoyable and interesting leisure.
Work, the first of the two aspects of life, has oc-
cupied most or all of their waking hours, and such
little time as they might have given to leisure has
really been spent in recovering from fatigue. We
have now come to a point where the interest of
the intelligent mass of mankind is focused on so
raising the general standard of living that, first,
work will be systematically

in such cases involve oppor—

tunity to take part in outdoor

life, in physical exercise, or in games. It may
take the form of light occupation of some non-
serious sort, such as working in a garden with
flowers, trees or vegetables. It may often involve
the reading of books, hearing good music, or visit-
ing noteworthy collections of art, thereby ex-
panding the field of intellectual interest and ac-
tivity. What has now become exceedingly im-
portant is that the hand worker should not only
be offered leisure but should be guided toward its
interesting and helpful use. This means outdoor
interests, sports and occupations of various kinds.
Moreover, we need to place increased emphasis
upon the intellectual guidance of our whole adult
population. Adult education does not mean going
to school or even following any rigorous program
of instruction. What it does mean is guidance and
suggestion from competent sources as to one’s
systematic reading, as to one’s standards of ap-
preciation and judgment in art, in science and in
literature, and as to one’s occupations in either
work or leisure. The exercise of this guidance
must be very carefully done and must always
avoid prescription or control. It would be foolish
in high degree to offer a list of books to a man
who has been toiling for six or

provided and properly remu-
nerated, and second, that lei-
sure will be offered, together
with indication and guidance
as to how that leisure may
best be used.

One of the physical charac-
teristics of leisure is that it in-
volves the rest and relaxation

Many of our rcaders will doubtless
recall Dr. Butler’s discussion of
leisure in his annual report of Co-
lumbia Univcrsity for 1924. In his
report for 1933 hc statcs there are
many rcasons why it is appropriate
to rcturn to a discussion of this
subject at the present. \Ve present
here extracts from Dr. Butler’s
latest report.

seven hours in a mine. His
natural desire would be for the
open air, and it would be there
that he would naturally wish
to look for his relaxation. One
great trouble heretofore has
been the comparatively few
hours that physical workers
have had for relaxation. The

219

220 LEISURE AND ITS USE

time has now come, however, when with shorter
hours of labor, leisure and its relaxations are
fortunately to take a much larger place in the life
of the hand worker than they have ever done
before.

Properly used, leisure will increase the capacity
for useful and productive work. This is really the
basis of the new argument for shorter hours of
labor. That argument is not that shorter hours of
labor will result in less work being done, but that
it will result in more work being done or in the
same work being better done. Of course, this
means that there should be no artificial limit put
to a worker’s power of production. He should
lay as many bricks in a day as he comfortably can
without regard to the capacity of other workers
engaged in the same occupation. In this way the
advantage of those things with which he occupies
his leisure will manifest itself in his capacity f0r
work. \\’e have a very long way to go in dealing
with this question, because there-are parts of our
own country and of other countries in which the
standard of living is far below what it should be.
This standard cannot be raised all at once, but
nevertheless it should be our object to raise it by
all means in our power, and as rapidly as possible.
One great obstacle to the freer movement of in-
ternational trade, which freer movement would
be of so great benefit to the pe0plc of the United
States and to many other pe0ples as well, is that
the condition of workers in some lands is still so
ve'y low as to make it quite incommensurable
with the condition which we
have in mind for our own
workers of today and tomor-

 

Cunu} Dr. William C. Vine!

For many workers true relaxation lies
in participation in out-of—door life.

row. This is an international problem of large
importance and it will not down.

Different nations are already approaching the
problem of leisure and its use in definite fashion.
The new government of Italy has developed an
extraordinarily brilliant program for the inter-
esting and enjoyable use of leisure on the part of
both children and adults. The German people
have long had their own way of solving this prob-
lem and have made large use of physical exercise,
of music, and of open air life. The British, like
ourselves, are dealing with this question just now
in serious and practical fashion and along very
much the same lines that are projected and ad-
vocated in the United States.

The fundamental fact to be graSped is that
work and leisure are two interdependent parts of
one and the same thing, which is an interesting
and useful life. He who does not work loses one
of the greatest of life's enjoyments, and he who
has no adequate leisure and no knowledge of how
to use that leisure is deprived of life’s greatest
satisfaction.

“There is a spiritual revolt against the tyran-
nies, the uglinesses and the vulgaritics of our
present world. Men will no longer live dull and
sodden lives. The aSpiration to live the good life
is not for one class or one group, but is as broad
as humanity itself. Each must be given at least a
chance to fulfill his destiny. It is vision that we
need above all else today."— Nebraska State
Teachers’ Association, Report
of Commission on Character
Education.

Planning the Recreation Building

that we are now living in a

day and age of specialists.
One no longer feels that the family physician can
perform a delicate operation when a specialist for
that particular operation can be obtained. Our
professional men are chosen because of their
greater experience in the special field for which
their services are desired. This is now becoming
the case when one chooses an architect or an en-
gineer to solve recreation construction problems.
One now asks “how can we obtain the individual
who is best suited for our particular work?” The
problems are involved and their solution not easy,
particularly in the case of public recreation
buildings.

Let us analyze some of these problems: An
architect does one of two things; he either creates
a plan, develops it, and then builds his facades
to fit the plans; or, he does the reverse, which, by
the way, is a too common practice for public
buildings; namely, he designs beautiful exteriors
and then attempts to ht the plan into these usually
elaborate pictures. Our plan problems are so
complicated that the last procedure is almost out
of the question unless an unlimited amount of
money is available. One, therefore, must start
with the plan.

Public buildings are, as a rule, built with defi-
nite appropriations of money: Seldom may the
architect go over this allotment. Let us take this
amount and divide it by the estimated cost per
square foot for the type of structure to be built.
In California the building laws are lenient in some
respects and severe in others.
By installing adequate fire pro-
tection equipment, one may
build of wood using metal lath
and stucco if not over one
story. Since California has been
visited in the past by earth-
quakes, its earthquake resist-
ance requirements are very
rigid. Here, wood has proven
to be the best inexpensive
building material. A horizon-
tal stress equal to ten per cent

It IS AN unquestionable fact

By RAYMOND E. HOYT
Los Angeles, California

We have asked a number of people
who arc expcrts in planning recre-
ation facilities to sharc with our
readers somc of the lessons they
have learned through their expcri-
cnce. Mr. Hoyt, Assistant Superin-
tendent in charge of the Division
of Construction and Maintenance,
Los Angeles Playground and Rec-
reation Dcpartment, suggests in
this article some of the things
which very often are overlooked
in planning recreation buildings.

of the dead load, has been found
to be sufficient to resist lateral
earthquake movements. A build-
ing, meeting these requirements, costs about $3.50
per square foot. Divide the appropriation by the
estimated unit of cost and one can easily deter-
mine how large a building on which to plan.

What Shall Go Into the Building?

Knowing this, the question is asked “Well,
what shall we put in our building?” To get the
best advice, one calls in the director or super-
visor who will probably have charge of the pro-
gram of activity to be conducted in the building.
By his experience within his community he knows
just what it needs; that is, he will know if he is
the genuine community leader we expect him to
be. Some directors have hobbies or special inter-
ests and one must be very careful to determine
whether these hobbies are influencing his recom-
mendations. By way of example, some energetic
young man may feel that the great important
need in his center is a gymnasium where he can
develop a championship basketball team, while
another directOr may have a special interest in
dramatics and he will want the building to be a
modern little theatre. Seldom does one have
funds to provide all of the desirable features
which are needed but what can be done and what
we have to do is to adapt our plan to fit moder-
ately and modestly all phases of the program.

A, modern recreation community building
should by all means contain a large assembly hall,
and here the architect is called upon to do almost
the impossible with this room.
It must be provided with a
stage, or perhaps it should be
termed a platform because the
modern stage with its fly gal-
leries is often far beyond our
means. Our platform can have
modern lighting effects, cur-
tains and the necessary equip-
ment to give community or
amateur dramatics. One finds
there is a thrill on the part of
the dramatic groups in making

221

222 PL.-1N.«\'ING THE RECREATION BUILDING

things “do.” They love to test their ingenuity and
their creativeness in this fashion. This room
must be reinforced enough in order that there
may be safely conduCted within it a gymnasium
class or what is now termed an active recreation
class. Sharp corners or pilasters with flimsy
plaster decorations must be eliminated, windows
must be guarded, lights must be high and pro-
tected, the floor must be level and not slippery.
It may be necessary to limit to some degree the
activities which can be carried on in one of these
combination rooms and indoor baseball is the first
on the taboo list. "On the other hand, in almost
every reasonably constructed building, volley ball
can be played with perfect safety to the fixtures,
and, with some care in planning, basketball can
also be played safely.

Now that this much of the problem is solved,
the director calls attention to the fact that one of
his greatest community activities is the weekly
neighborhood party or the old- fashioned dance. It
is now necessary to turn the little theatre and
gymnasium into a ball room. The most serious
problem is the floor. For gymnasium purposes the
floor must not be slippery but for social dancing
purposes it is quite essential. The only solution
to this problem is to finish the floor for gym-
nasium purposes as there is a definite risk of a
serious fall on a slippery floor to a volley ball or
basketball player. A finished gymnasium floor
can be made quite acceptable for a dancing party
by the use of borax spangles. These can be re-
moved quite easily by lightly going over the floor
with a damp cloth on a push broom. The archi-
tect can provide blank wall spaces which lend
themselves beautifully to paper panel decorations.
By the use of a variety of very inexpensive paper
decorations, the gymnasium can be turned into a
most charming ball room.

This is still the age when a woman makes her
greatest impression upon mere man by placing
before him something he can eat. No building for
community recreation would. therefore, be com-
plete without a kitchen. It is not within the juris-
diction of a recreation department to provide the
last word in kitchen equipment. The preparing
of the banquet feast should be left to the tax-
paying restaurant man. What the recreationalist
is concerned with is the providing of adequate
facilities for the servicing of light refreshments,
pot luck dinners. and noonday luncheons for
women's play day groups. It is well to have a
room adjacent to the kitchen for the serving of

refreshments. The kitchen must also be conveni-
ent to the main assembly room as well as to out-
side delivery. The wise designer will provide a
safe place in which to keep the ice cream and
cake as small boys on the playground have been
known to feel it is their constituted duty to be the
first to sample the refreshments!

If there is any Floor space remaining in the ap-
propriation, there should be added one or more
small club meeting rooms for boy and girl charac-
ter-building groups, local improvement or social
club committees, playground councils, and many
other organizations. These rooms should be sup-
plied with a great amount of storage space in the
way of cupboards and lockers. Many recreation
directors have gone on record as saying that they
could fill dozens of these small recreation rooms
every night in the week. Their use is unlimited.

Things to Keep in Mind

Plumbing costs money. Adequate service
must be provided, but it is very easy to overdo it.
If there is a play field adjacent, then, of course,
public comfort stations must be provided to serve
the play field. There should be no accessibility
from these rooms to the inside of the building.
The inside comfort facilities should be centrally
located, easily accessible to all rooms, and above
all it must not be necessary to pass through a
room other than a public hallway. \V here money
is sufficient, the toilet room walls should be wains-
coted with smooth tile, this being the best material
to discourage the thoughtless patron who wants
to try out his jack-knife or to see what kind of a
mark his pencil makes.

Electric fixtures must harmonize with the char-
acter of the building. It is pOSsible these days to
get good, efficient stock electrical units in almost
any architectural style. Great care must be taken
to provide plenty of circuits and of more than
normal electrical capacity. Sooner or later some-
one will try to put a 1000 watt lamp where a 100
watt lamp was supposed to be sufiicient. Trouble
will surely result unless the engineer anticipates
these almost certain overloads. Outdoor yard
boxes are easy to install when the building is
under construction. These serve beautifully for
the extra illumination demanded for special out-
door night celebrations. Light is one of the best
preventives for the unwelcome night visit of the
gang which breaks into the building for no good
purpose. These night lights do not have to be of
great intensity, and when placed on corners high

PLANNING THE RECREATION BUILDING 223

up from the ground they serve most efficiently.
By placing them on a time switch they will auto-
matically turn off at any hour desired. These
lights have more than paid for themselves wher-
ever installed. Electrical switches are the worry
of almost every community house manager. Ex-
perienced directors will advise the architect to
put switches to all main rooms in the director’s
office. There must be one switch at the door for
the convenience of the employee leaving last or
coming first into the building.

A modest office should be provided in every
community building. It is quite essential to the
health and morale of the employee to have a place
where he can retire for a few minutes of relaxa-
tion between activities. It is the many little things
which either drive a director to distraction or
which make him an efficient servant of the
community.

It would be possible to produce pages of rea-
sons why a community recreation building is
enough of a special case to warrant the selection
of an architect who has first hand knowledge of
the many delicate and complicated recreation
problems involved in the management and con-
trol of a center of this kind. One should even go
further and include this requirement for the in—
dividual- who is to be responsible for the layout
and the design of the playground. There are
physical and moral hazards which must receive the
very first consideration, and only one who has
studied or knows this problem by his experience
is competent to plan a modern play field.

The Griffith Recre-

ation Center at Los
Angeles was erected
by relief funds at
a cost of $lb,000.
The patio contains
a stage and also a
fireplace.

Giving Them What They Want!

The patrons should be segregated naturally. By
this it is meant the small tots with their special
play equipment should be placed where they
naturally desire to be. Small children love to be
near the office or the entrance to the building. It
is, therefore, essential that they be placed there.
The unemployed men who have been making such
great use of the public recreation facilities in the
past few years care nothing about being close to
the building, but they do demand adequate shade
and protection from the wind, and they are most
annoyed when stray balls find their way into their
area or when children insist on running and yell-
ing too near them. They should, therefore, be
placed in the most secluded and out-of—the—way
corner where they may enjoy their activities un—
molested. The older boys and girls demand free-
dom. They must have wide, open spaces in which
to play. They must be permitted to “slam” the
ball without fear of a reprimand from the director
or supervisor because they might hit the build—
ing, knock the ball into the small children’s area,
or even over the fence. “To do and not taboo” is
what these live, energetic, wholesome, red-blooded
boys and girls want.

All equipment and play apparatus must be as
safe as it is humanly possible to make it, con-
sistent, however, with certain good judgment as
to the degree of thrill remaining. There is this
something which we call “thrill” that must re-
main. If left to the decision of boys and girls by

( Continued on page 258)

 

A Hobby Workshop in a Museum

WORKSHOP providing free
opportunity for sketching.

modeling and other leisure

activities has been inaugurated by the Newark
Museum as an extension of its educational pro-
gram. The workshop, which is in many respects
an innovation in museum work in this conntry, is
located on the first floor of the Museum. Its
equipment and working materials are to be con-
tinuously available to the adult public during the
Museum’s open hours.

The workshop is a result of the increasing pop-
ularity of the Museum’s senior hobby clubs, of
which four have been in operation for a year with
a total membership of three hundred. These clubs
are informally organized groups of amateurs and
hobbyists interested in sketching, modeling, nature
study and stamp collecting. The groups have been
meeting regularly on Sunday afternoons and have
planned their own programs. The informality of
amateurs meeting to share a common interest has
been emphasized in these grrups, and the formal
instruction of art schools or of evening courses
has been carefully avoided. A staff member has
worked with the grOUps as a secretary seeing that
announcements and other details are taken care
of. As far as possible instruction of any type is
avoided, and the emphasis is on developing the
powers of observation. Except for occasional be-
ginners literal "copying" of pictures or sculpture
is discouraged. From time to time the sketching
and the modeling groups have asked well-known
artists of the community

By RUSSELL NEWCOMB

plastecine, pencils, soap for carv-
ing, and other materials are avail-
able. Mask making. finger paint-
ing, puppet making, soap carving, wood carving,
linoleum block printing, charcoal drawing pastels,
oil paintings, and water colors have been under-
taken during the past winter by members of the
sketching and modeling clubs. Field trips and
study periods on birds, minerals. scientific photo-
graphing, astronomy, and similar subjects have
been arranged by the nature study group, and the
stamp collecting group has flourished with speak-
ers on various special topics and opportunities for
members to display their collections.

Members of the workshOp groups are working
towards an exhibit next fall which will include
objects made or collected by them during the enr-
rent year either in the workshop or during the
vacation months. During the week of May 6th
there was shown in conjunction with the work-
shop a small exhibit of ship models, paintings,
weavings, furniture and other articles made by
business and professional men of this vicinity.
The exhibit was planned and arranged. by the
Newark Junior League and it included only crea-
tive hobbies—no collectors' hobbies. The exhibit
featured the work of a number of the best known
men in the city, and served to attract wide atten-
tion to the Museum's newly opened workshop.

llecause of its present heavily curtailed budget.
the Museum will not be able to have a f ull-time
staff member in charge of the workshop, although

it is hoped eventually to

to talk to their groups, and
outstanding stamp collect-
ors and nature students
have met with the other
groups. ln the spring
months, field trips for
study have been arranged.

The workshop is ar-
ranged to be open to the
full view of the public
and to the staff members
working in adjacent de-
partments. \Vork tables.
casels. drawing boards,

224

“For the tnan who has discovered the eon-
snmmale joy of a hobby, no excuses are
necessary, no justification is in order. That
it should fill his leisnre hours aml divert
his mind from the pressure of everyday
prohlems are reasons enough for the fre-
qllcnl and sometimes frenzied pursuits of
the nature lover to his woods, the hihlio-
phile to his hook shop, the golfer to his
green. The pursuit is enough. But on the
other hand there are some hobbies that
offer additional rewards. They are the
creative hobbies productive of something
you can lay your hands on when the chase
is over."—From editorial in the Craftsman,

Jannary-Febmary, 1934

do this. The New Jersey
Emergency Relief Admin-
istration, through its Lei-
sure Time Division, has
assigned a leader who will
meet once or twice a week
in the workshop with the
members of the hobby
groups.

In inaugurating the
workshop the Museum
feels that it is both meet-
ing the present demand

(Continued on page 258)

   

I.

Adventures
in

Star Gazing

By

John W. Handlan

Oglebay Institute
Wheeling,WestVirginia

C onrtcsy Oglebay Institute

" NCE UPON A TIME” there were some people
0 in \Vheeling who were interested in as—
tronomy. So they formed a small study
group and occasionally some one gave a talk on
the subject. These enthusiasts soon found that
they wanted a closer acquaintance with stars and
planets than the telescope available for their use
could give them. But, sad to relate, the cost of an
instrument of the size they desired was prohibi-
tive. Then some one said: “Let’s make one !” They
did, and as a result many of the population of the
\Vheeling district are becoming star-minded.

That, in a word, is the story of another inter-
esting development in the program of Oglebay
Institute at Oglebay Park, Wheeling. And perma—
nently mounted on a hilltop at the Park is an ac—
curate, powerful, eight-inch reflecting telescope——
a gift to Oglebay Institute by the \Vheeling As-
tronomy Club.

Oglebay Institute’s chief part in the accomplish—
ment has been to bring together individuals of
kindred interests, astronomy hobbyists. Starting
early in 1928 the Institute began presentation of
weekly, outdoor lectures on various phases of
natural science. Some of these were on astron-

 

The true story of
on enterprising
group of people
who, locking the
scientific equip-
ment they wanted,
went to worh and
mode it, and had
a most enioyable
time doing it!

I"

omy. The dozen or so
amateur astronomers
who were drawn to
these lectures soon
learned that o t h e r
\Vheeling people were
interested in the same
things. They found
that the Diocesan
Chancellor of the R0-
man Catholic Church,
Msgr. E. E..\Veber, was an enthusiastic and capa-
ble astronomer who owned a portable telescope
and who was generous in lending it. They learn-
ed that another Wheeling clergyman, Rt. Rev. R.
E. I... Strider, Bishop-Coadjutor of the Episcopal
Church was also an astronomy enthusiast. They
discovered then .an executive of a' steel manu-
facturing corporation and an executive of a glass—
ware manufacturing company of the city had been
interested to the point of purchasing telescopes
which they were not averse to lending to fellow-
enthusiasts.

After a time these astronomy enthusiasts met
Dr. 0. F. H. Bert, instructor in astronomy at
Washington and Jefferson College, Pennsylvania,
and lecturer in astronomy to students of the an—
nual nature training school at Oglebay Park.
Eventually, a winter study class in star study was
formed with Dr. Bert as instructor and with a
nominal fee charged for the series of lectures and
“telescope nights.”

This class was the nucleus of the Wheeling
Astronomy Club which subsequently was formed
with Oglebay Park as a rallying place. The club
is now affiliated with the West Virginia Nature

225

226 ADVENTURES IN STAR GAZING

Association, Inc., which also had its genesis in the
nature study program conducted by Oglebay In-
stitute at Oglebay Park. Similar science-hobby
clubs in botany and in ornithology, respectively,
are likewise flourishing at the Park as part and
parcel of the Nature Association—but this is an
astronomy story!

In the winter of 1932-33 members of the As-
tronomy Club felt the club should secure a large
telescope to be permanently located at the Park
for their use. They felt that their continued bor-
rowing of privately-owned instruments had come
to be an imposition upon the generosity of those
who lent them. They knew the prohibitive cost
_of large telescopes but had heard, through mem-
bers of the Institute’s activities staff, of success-
f ul, home-made instruments. Some of these were
the property of members of the Astronomical Sec-
tion of the Pittsburgh Academy of Arts and

Sciences.

Soon there was a pilgrimage of interested
\Vheeling astronomers to the haunts of the Pitts—
burgh star-gazers. There they saw a variety of
ingenious, amateur-made reflecting telescopes and
immediately decided to build one of their own-
an eight-inch reflector. Among the club members
were engineers and trained mechanics. There
were plenty of willing workers. The necessary
glass was purchased and the grinding of a mirror

began. M. C. Hine, manager of Oglebay Park for .

the \Vheeling Park Commission, made available to
the astronomers the use of the Park’s carpenter
shop at night and on Saturday, afternoons. The
work went on slowly and carefully and by late
spring of 1933 it was finished.

Then arose the question of a suitable tube, ex-
act revolving and elevating mechanism and the
heavy type of permanent mount required for an
eight-inch scope. Members of the club interested
officials of the \Vheeling Steel Corporation, and a
half-dozen or so expert workmen of the corpora-
tion themselves became interested in the project.
The club members designed the scope mounting
and mechanism. The steel company workmen c0n-
structed tube and mount and placed the lens and
reflecting mirrors under the expert direction of
the club's technically-trained men. The Wheeling
Park COmmission built a concrete base for the

mounting.
Club members appeared at midnight, exactly,
at the telescope location with transits and other

paraphernalia of mysterious significance to the
uninformed. Earnest sights were taken upon the

North Star—and the exact alignment of the big
new 'scope was figured.

Public TeleScope Nights

The telescope was placed, dedicated and for-
nially accepted by Oglebay Institute last summer.
From then until the cold and snow of the \Vest
Virginia hills forbade much activity went on in
the way of static outdoor observations, and “pub-
lic telescope nights” were regularly conducted
with members of the club in charge. These public
occurrences are being continued in the spring,
summer and fall of 1934.

In 1934 the club has sponsored a series of radio
talks on astronomy over the Wheeling broadcast-
ing station \V \V VA with 5,000-watt power. Msgr.
\Veber has been speaker for the first series of
weekly popular lectures upon astronomy and
others of the club membership plan to take up the
burden when Father \Veber has completed his
series. The radio station has adopted the program
as a studio feature and the number of favorable
comments received has induced them to plan to
continue the lectures after the current series has
been completed.

Each “public telescope night” is preceded by the
radio talks in the course of which the speaker in-
forms his listeners of some of the things which
may be viewed through the telescope on the next
“telescope night.” As a result the public observa-
tion periods are becoming extremely popular
throughout Wheeling district. Not only does the
general public attend the Saturday night events,
but teachers of science classes, leaders of Boy
Scout troops and informal, private groups make
arrangements with members of the club to have
private instruction at the ’scope on mid-week
nights.

Many people, apparently, have been much sur-
prised to learn that Saturn really does have rings
which are "just like the pictures in the book.” It
is a tribute to the publicity genius behind the
Chicago \Vorld’s Fair that the star Arcturus,
which set the lights ablaze in and over the big
exposition, should have proved a most popular
object of observation by the laymen who visited
the Oglebay Park telescope last year.

Other Projects

Yes. there's no doubt that things astronomical
in Wheeling district are definitely “looking up,"
in more than a literal sense. At least one new

(Continued on page 259)

The Twentieth National Recreation Congress

HE RECREATION CONGRESS
T to be held in \Nashington,
D. C., October 1-5, 1934,
will be particularly timely and
significant. Both lay and profes-
sional recreation leaders need

The twentieth National Recrea-
tion Congress, the first to be

held since the International
Congress in Los Angeles in 1932,

will meet in \Vashington, Octo-

ber 1-5. The Wardman Park

Hotel will he the headquarters.

schools, parks, recreation?
What college and University
courses are desirable for men
and women who after college
training are immediately to be-
come play and recreation

the stimulus of a great national

conference on community rec-

reation at this time. Problems have been pressing.
Fundamental changes affecting the future of rec-
reation are taking place in national and commu-
nity affairs. In every city have been felt the lash
of reduced appropriations and drastic economies,
the loss of loyal and efficient workers, the discon-
tinuance of some activities, and the struggle to
serve an increasing public demand with fewer re-
sources. There have been important changes in
the nature of programs and pronounced tenden-
cies on the part of Federal and State governments
toward greater activity in recreation. The Con-
gress will offer the opportunity for laymen and
public officials to discuss their problems and to
plan together how to meet the challenge which
increased leisure presents.

Some of the questions to be discussed at section
meetings and which are related to the great gen-
eral theme are as follows:

\Vhat special service can the recreation move-
ment render to youth just graduating from high
school and college who are unable to find employ-
ment?

Problems in recreation
program building in the cre-
ative arts and crafts.

\V h a t are
the gains, if
any, in having
special lay,
boards or com—
missions in
cny govern-

ments charged
with responsi—
bility for
working on
the special
problems of

The Wardman Park Hotel which will be the

headquarters of the Recreation Congress.

 

leaders?

\Vhat schools are doing to
prepare children for abundant living and give
them abundant life now.

What parks are doing for abundant living.

Is it desirable for the recreation movement in
the United States to further special types of rec-
reation which require less of leadership and or-
ganization? How can this be done? What are
the activities for adults which practically run
themselves?

Changes that need to be made in recreation
during the present emergency period—changes in
program, method and in content.

What can be done to secure a better under-
standing of the national and local recreation
movement?

If I had full power to represent the people of
the city in which I live and a meaSUre of financial
freedom in helping them toward abundant living,
what would I do?

\Vhat men and women want to do in their free
time.

Problems in cooperation arising in community
planning for play and recreation for youth and
other age groups.

Soft ball problems.

Problems of board mem-
bers responsi-
ble for recre-
ation and park
services.

Zestful liv-
ing through
music.

Keeping
alive through
drama.

Comrade-
ship through
social recrea-
tion.

227

228 TH E Til/EN TIE TH NA TIONA L RE (IRE A TI ON CONGRESS

How to provide recreation more adequately for
women and girls.

\\'idening horiznns through contact with nature.
Adventure through recreation or crime?
l‘ublie camping national, state, municipal.
Recreation engineering problems.

Recreation that builds home and family life.

\Vhat services on hobbies should local recre-
ation departments be prepared to give?

For general sessions and symposium discus-
51' ins are so!"1 ti upirs ts: mmtructive economy in
govt rmnent; reul-nt S-N'ial trends related to recre-
ation; cmqwratixe service on the part of educa-
tion-recreation agencies; what can adult educa-
tion do for abundant living; national government
'erviu through reereatim: what an the churches
do for abundant living.

In addition to the uplnll’lunit)’ which the (‘on-
grew offer:- for the discussion of vital problt-ms
and an cmnange of opmi ans, the fact that thr.
meeting ia- t' b: held. at \\‘a ihmgton will in itself
be of interest \\ ashington is the hub of national
H. where untury is being mad: Here are the
mum-runs «gen ie" with national headmiarters,
urh '1 tne \.‘tvrllal I‘ark ‘iuvirr 'llf \"ati--nal
I‘ m u. at \..su .tion, and the \ n. ind ( digress
of l'arenL and iea‘here “It! these :rganiZa

 

tions many recreation leaders have had contact.
Here also is located the headquarters of the Fed-
eral Emergency Relief Administration. responsible
for making available funds for work projects in
recreation, as well as in other community
activities.

The capital city is steadily developing into one
of the most beautiful and interesting cities of the
world. \\'ashington offers examples of city plan-
ning, park construction, water front development,
and the organization of playgrounds and com-
munity 'i‘enters worthy of study and emulation.
Rock (‘reck Park, one of the most beautiful rec-
reation areas in the L'nited States, is but a stone's
throw from the hotel. ()f recreational opportuni-
ties there will lx: many. The city offers twenty-
live golf courses, bridle paths. numerous tennis
courts, boating and swimming. Upportunity will
be given for sight-seeing.

The twentieth Recreation (Ringo-.55 promises to
be one of the most interesting and significant-
gatherings in the history of the recreation move-
ment. it is hoped that all sections nf the Country
\ill be well represented.

For further information write to Mr. T. E.
Rivers National Recreation Association, 315
Fourth \venue, New York City.

Leisure Time Activities For Men 'and Boys

By EDGAR FAUVER, M. D.

HE OLD SAYING, “What
T is one man’s medicine

is another man’s poi-
son,” is quite true in the
field of recreation. Athletics~
fail for all as age advances,
and the individual who has
failed to develop some
hobby other than athletics
by means of which the may
occupy himself in his leisure
time, sooner or later pre-
sents a sad picture of one
who has failed to prepare himself for the enjoy-
ment of his leisure. And this is true, no matter
whether the .individual in question is a college
professor, an ex-president of the United States,
a retired business man, or one who has earned a
livelihood by hard physical labor.

One who approaches this subject thoughtfully
must do so'with a clear appreciation of certain
facts; first, the future will probably hold increas-
ingly for each one more leisure time than was en-
joyed by his parents or by any other civilized peo-
ple, and the use of this leisure time will be a de-
termining factor in the life of the individual as
well as the nation. In fact, time devoted to lei-
sure, whether this be voluntary or otherwise, will
be greater than time devoted to work.

I myself rather suspect that one is justified in
feeling that the future progress of civilization
will depend more upon how people use their lei-
sure hours than upon the work which they do in
their hours of toil. This perhaps has always been
the case with all people of all time. “Many a
civilization of‘the past,” says L. P. Jacks, “has
owed its downfall to untrammeled leisure,” and
he fears that our own may perish from this cause
unless there is education for the right use of it.
Probably the Romans illustrate as well as any
people what we may expect to happen as the re-
sult of the improper use of leisure, for when they
ceased to be a laboring nation and grew rich and
affluent, Roman civilization came to an end. It
was not their wealth which brought this about so
much as the way in which they used their leisure.

At a meeting held on March 17th
at the New Britain, Connecticut,
Normal School, Dr. Edgar Fauver,
Professor of Physical Education at
\Vesleyan University, stressed the

importance of developing interests
other than athletic, and presented
a strong casc for hobbies based on
his own experience and leisure
timc preferences.

 

For most of us, says the
gloomy Dean Inge, the right
use of leisure is no doubt a
harder problem than the
right use of our working
hours. The soul, he says, is
dyed with the color of its
leisure thoughts. Otto Kahn,
in speaking about leisure,
puts it in another way. He
says:

“Apart from those lessons
which we learn from our daily
experience in the routine af—
fairs of our existence, and in our regular occupations, it
is not too much to say that our individual development,
the very contents of our lives. are largely infiuenced, if
not determined, by the use to which we put that part
of our time which is not absorbed by the demands of
what government statistics term ‘gainful occupation.’ ”

Educating for Living

If the use of leisure hours is to be an impor—
tant factor in determining the future progress of
our civilization, then it would seem that educa-
tion should train more for living and less for toil.
The individual must somewhere along the educa-
tional path gain an interest in some side-line, some
hobby, which will be a source of satisfaction to
him in his leisure hours in later life, quite distinct
from the activities for which he is trained and by
means of which he makes his living.

In the past, many schools and institutions of
higher learning have been training young people
to make a living, but for the great bulk of Mr
population there is less reason for that now than
in the past. Of course there are many exceptions,
esp :rially among the professions. But it is cer-
tain that in these days, after boys and girls are
permitted by law to work in factories, they will
soon earn as large wages as they will ever earn.

The second fact which should be recognized is
that the future is to become a young man’s world.
Men will retire at an earlier age from life activi—
ties than in past years, and must face a life of
unemployment and leisure. This period of great-
ly increased leisure will come at a time of life for
most of us when athletic pastimes will not satisfy,
and we must turn, regardless of our interests in-

229

230 L11.“ hf: I'M“. .lt I'H'ITII.5 fUK .llth .l.\ D BUYS

past years, to some other pastimes tor our
recreation.

In the third place, we who are interested in
education must realize that but few boys and girls
of those entering the primary SChOul actually go
to the high school, and still fewer to college.
Preparation for leisure should, therefore, begin
down in the lower grades, if we are to fit the
majority of our people for the use of leisure.

In the fourth place, not all recreation can pos-
sibly be of an athletic nature. For long before the
majority of men have reached my age, recrea-
tional activities of an athletic nature will he im-
possible or undesirable, and for those men who
art employed, as many of the
boys now in grammar school
will be employed, in hard
manual labor three or four
hours a day, recreation of a
violent athletic nature will
not he needed and will not be
advisable.

Before. taking up athletics
and games as forms of recre-
.ttion, I wish to present other
types of activity which to my
mind are. of equal, if not
greater, importance to the
average individual. Tht re
are :50 many uf these acti\i-
ties that there is not time tr.
discuss any of them fully,
and time to mention only a
few of them casually.

Nature Interests

I have been quite. on
pressed by the frequency
with which all v. riters on the
.uhjevt call attention to an
.ntt-tu-wt in nature an-i thx 4191-
.ug ‘Il thing:- with the hands

Youth is the time for athletic
sports. These activities fail
as age advances, and the in-
dividual who has failed to
dove-lap some hobby other
than athletics sooner or later
presents the sad picture of
one who has neglected to
prepare himself for the
enioyment of his leisure.

 

as wffering desirable means for the occupation
of leisure hours. Among the recreational ac—
tivities other than athletics I place first of all an
interest in the great out-of-doors. Interest in this
should be developed at an early age, and it Seems
very unfortunate to me that anyone living in such
a country as New England should fail to gain an
appreciation of the beauty of the land in which he
lives. I have spent the last thirty summers in a
valley amid the mountains of New Hampshire in
a boys" camp. ln this camp, as at most others.
there are specialists in nature who take parties out
each day to observe first-hand the trees, plants,
birds and rocks. Perhaps no better opportunity

LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES FOR MEN AND BOYS 231

Wlll ever come to the boy to make a friend of
nature than that offered by the summer camp. It
is not unusual for a boy to learn to recognize
every variety of tree that grows in the neighbor-
hood of camp, as well as a hundred or more plants
and flowers. They come to know the common
birds, and often receive first-hand information
about the formation of the rocks and the hills
over which they ramble day after day. They learn
to identify the butterflies and moths and beetles of
the region, and are taught to set and mount the
specimens they secure. They frequently receive
instruction about the stars and planets and the
other heavenly bodies, and it is not uncommon to
hear some of the boys on clear evenings pointing
out and arguing about
certain ones of the larger
stars and star groups. A
few months after the
close of camp no boy
would recall all the names
and information about
these things, but the net
gain in the interest in the
out-of-doors and the abil-
ity to enjoy it must be
considerable and lasting.

On many occasions I
have sat with groups of
boys about a camp fire
on top of a mountain in
the gathering darkness
after the supper cooked
over the same fire had
been eaten, when the stars came out one by one
and seemed much closer and more friendly than
in the city, when the winding road three thou—

sand feet below in the valley gradually faded out'

and the lights in the distant farm houses began
to twinkle. when the rose and lavender on lake
and mountain changed to meet the approach of
night—and I have noticed that the most obstreperf
ous boy became silent and thoughtful, and I have
wondered if perhaps they felt something of awe
of the heavens above and the earth beneath. It
has seemed to me on such occasions that there has
come to each some notion that God was in his
Heaven, some notion of some power greater than
anything yet experienced, which was responsible
for it all, and a love for nature which will be life-
long.

Only last summer a counselor who was with me
at camp began to take an interest in nature. He

 

Courtesy Dr. William G. Vina!

Nature interests developed in youth make
for a happy use of leisure in later life. sible

had been a grand athlete in his day, playing foet—
ball, baseball and basketball. Sauntering into our
so-called nature lodge at the camp one day, he be—
came interested in the collections of moths and
butterflies, flowers and plants, which small boys
of the camp were making. The infection took.
It was interesting to see the growth of the inter-
est of this counselor, this hardy athlete, in moths
and butterflies. It was not long before he, too,
was out with a net attached to a long pole, chas-
ing butterflies, and he, too, was spending his even-
ings with a pail of decayed apples and vinegar,
smearing it on the trunks of trees and later turn-
ing his flashlight on it in the hope that he would
discover some moth of rare vintage and capture it.
I question whether this
man, a Phi Beta Kappa
and an athlete and a sec-
ond year law student,
ever had gained such a
thrill from anything as
that which he experi-
enced when he captured
a rare specimen of the
underwing. This certain-
ly is an activity which so
far as this man is con—
cerned will provide him
recreation when legal
work becomes most ab—
sorbing and when ath-
letics are no longer pos-

I trust you will pardon
references to my own personal interests. I have
been an athlete, with the emphasis on the “has
been.” I have known the thrill which comes to
few of making a home run in the twenty—first in-
ning of a baseball game with three men on bases
and the score 6-3 in favor of the opposition. I
have known the thrills which come from tOUCh-
(lowns which have won games, and field goals
which have tied scores, and I know the delightful
sensation of making a final smash of a high lob
to win a tennis match. On very rare occasions I
have enjoyed the rare delight of propelling a golf
ball 250 yards down the fairway and seeing it roll
up to the lip of a cup. I have known the pleasure
of coaching championship teams in many sports.

Antiques As a Hobby

But a thrill greater than any of these came to
me many years ago from quite a different source.

232 LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES FOR MEN AND BOYS

I had completed with my own
hands a'l0g cabin for a summer
home, and wished to furnish it.
One day I stopped in a black-
smith shop on a country hillside
in New Hampshire, and there,
nestled where it had been for
twenty-five years or more, under
wagon-wheels and wagon tires and debris of other
kinds, I found a beautiful Empire couch of solid
mahogany, with beautiful carving on arms and
legs. This was the start of an interest in an-
tiques which apparently is to be lifelong. I can
think of many occasions quite comparable to the
one described above. My mind goes back twenty-
five years to the time I found a beautiful Duncan
Phyfe couch in the loft over an ice-house attached
to a rambling old barn. This was discovered only
as the result of the sunlight which, trickling
through the cracks of the loft, illuminated a brass
claw. I remember yet the pleasure that I eXperi-
enced in finding a beautiful curly maple chest-on-
chest with twenty-seven original brasses in a
kitchen in a lonely little house well up in the hills
where I had seen it fifteen years previously, and
which on the second visit became my own.

If you wish to have a real occupation for leisure
hours which is recreational and interesting, buy
a piece of antique furniture, dark with the varnish
of ages, and with a piece of glass or a scraping
tool, remove the varnish, smooth the surface with
sandpaper or mineral wood, and then apply a lit-
tle linseed oil and pumice stone and see the bean-
ti f ul texture of the mahogany or cherry develop.
It may be that turpentine and burnt umber will
be your choice, for the piece may be a chest made
of old New England white pine. It may be that
one leg or an arm of the chair is missing, but
there is still good oak and hickory grown out of
which reproductions may be made with only a
slight skill in the use of a saw and a knife.

I had always wanted to have a butterfly table.
Some eight or ten years ago, in an antique store
in Portland, Maine, I saw just the one I wanted.
The dealer kindly turned out and sold to me re-
productions of the four legs, which I brought
home in my arms to Middletown. They were of
cherry. A summer or two later, some wide cherry
board came into my possession, and after some six
or seven years of work in such leisure hours as I
could find, I reproduced this butterfly table. Not
perfect by any means, but more beautiful in my
sight than any piece of furniture money could

of play.”

“The essential thing in train-
ing for athletics as a recrea-
tional pastime is not neces-
sarily the development of un-
usual skill in any sport, but
the development of a love for
play and for the by-produets

buy. If you really want thrills,
become a collector, finisher or
maker of antiques. My cellar
shop always contains glue, shel-
lac, oil, turpentine and a small
collection of clamps. There is
always some couch, chair, table,
chest of drawers, or a secretary
to be repaired and refinished. In my garage are
several white pine boards twenty feet long by
nearly thirty inches wide. These came from an
old house in which Reginald deKoven was born,
a house in which Charles Dickens spent several
nights and which was used for years as a dormi-
tory for the women of \Vesleyan. If my health is
spared for another nine years when I shall retire
from college life and have leisure, I know what I
shall make of these boards.

The Delights of Gardening

That is not my only interest. I should like to
invite you to wander with me in my gardens
where a few flowers grow—-—one in Middletown
and one in New Hampshire. They are such poor
gardens as gardens of the wealthy are pictured,
but into these gardens have gone many moments
of happiness and honest toil, and from them have
come much joy and peace as I have “wandered by
rippling brooks, under blue skies, over grassy
vested greens. and have learned to love nature
and feel her response.” '

Training for Leisure

Coming now to what was probably intended to
be the real subject of this paper, recreational ath-
letics and games, I have three very definite con-
victions. First, that if we wish to train for lei-
sure, we must cultivate in the individual a love
for sport for sport's sake, which is quite distinct
from the love of winning. Second, we must train
individuals in individual games, rather than in
team games, which can be carried on and played
long after many of our so-called major sports can
be played. And third, I have a very definite f eel-
ing, and this is said with no criticism of intercol-
legiate athletics, that few of our interscholastic
and intercollegiate games make any contribution
to the individual players in the way of preparing
them for leisure hours, yet it is true that every
school that maintains varsity teams puts its great-
est emphasis on these to the neglect of other ac-
tivities which have carry-over values.

(Continued on page 259)

Playground Teams

from

 

THE CITY or LITTLE FALLS, New York, indus-

trial. semi-foreign and well stocked with

children, embarked last summer upon its first
playground program. The 10,000 inhabitants of
the community, as well as the newly organized
staff, recognized the potentialities of play and
were deeply interested in making the program a
success. They were, they felt, starting on a cru-
sade of health and citizenship.

The city had its share of boy gangs, some of
them large, some small, and a few delinquent.
Back lot diamonds, swimming holes, freight cars,
factory windows and side hills had great fascina-
tion for them. Groups of boys roamed in quest of
adventure—usually of the wrong sort. How to
get hold of these gangs and organize them into
playground groups was one of our big problems,
but we kept at it until twenty-two teams consist-
ing of 325 boys had registered in the Junior
League and the terror of the neighborhood
grounds had become the “champion” of the near-
est playground. Hundreds of other boys and
girls, too, used the playgrounds, but the League
was the outstanding junior contribution to the
program.

As directors and equipment appeared at the six
playgrounds nearby, gangs from three to ten in
number were not slow in making use of the facili-
ties. But the attendance was not regular and many

Neighborhood Gangs

By
RICHARD JAMES HURLEY

neighborhoods were not being reached. An Inter-
playground League was projected to compete in
soft ball, volley ball, track and horseshoe pitching.
A definite schedule, we decided, would be played
in each sport. Ratings would be kept and cham-
pionships declared. Teams would be placed ac-
cording to age and skill in an older “A” division
and a younger “B” set. Our first move was to
make teams of the gangs already on the play-
grounds and start our program. The word, we
felt sure, would soon spread.

During the first few days we talked with the
gangs already in touch with us about the League,
took down their membership, age and tentative
line-up, and scheduled games. They told us of
other gangs. and by the underground telegraph
system which boys use, we met and measured
each other.

The local paper gave us extensive publicity.
Names and more names went into the sport page,
and we carried a few clippings from the papers
to convince the doubtful. Then when the first
games were played, they read of the good play-
ing of “Red” Konik as pitcher, of “Shorty” Lau-
benstein at short, and Kelly at first. There were
official scorekeepers and umpires, and toss for
field was formally decided. Yes, the League was
serious business, a going concern!

Some of Our Problems

Our greatest problem lay ahead—that of keep-
ing these teams organized. Some did not know
how to play well or how to play together and
had to be properly coached. “Pep” talks were
given, lineeups revised, new players added, trick

233

234 PLAYGROUND TEA'MS FROM NEIGHBORHOOD GANGS

plays taught, and the boys made to feel their
importance. A series of reverses might prove
fatal and there might be several disasters such as
the captain losing his job or the best players join-
ing other teams. Many captains were not the real
leaders of the teams but figureheads or compro-
mises. One captain complained that some of his
players were forming a new team to replace his.
we waited until the rival captain had handed in
his line-up, and then brought both groups to-
gether and effected a compromise—alternate cap-
tains for the games.

On another occasion two captains compromised
on a third. The captain ruled his team at the
game, but on other occasions we cultivated the
leader’s loyalty. Groups consisting of several
two-or-three-boy gangs were particularly difiicult
to handle but we scheduled a few easy games
when a split seemed near, and the joy of victory
carried them forward again.

Another problem lay in preventing defaults
which have an unfortunate effect upon the team
keeping the appointment. Our remedy, of course,
was to keep up the morale of the team and pre-
vent any defaults. Very few occurred and these
were covered over by substituting
other teams. Morale was constantly
being built all along the line. The
dignity we gave league activities,
the careful and consistent write-
ups of games in the paper, and
finally the system of rating we
used all combined to carry sixteen
of the twenty-two teams over the
top. Four teams outfitted them-
selves with special sweaters, thus
adding color to the activities.

Our Procedure

W’ e rated each team on the per-
centage of 1,000. For each of our
four sports there was a champion-
ship and in addition a total all-
round championship based upon
the above averages. we gave both
ratings so that a team in the cellar

Boys will always play baseball, and
it is the responsiblity of every com--
munity of the land to provide the
placesinwhich thoymayplay safely.

in soft ball might through its prowess at horse-
shoe pitching find itself standing well up in the
total score. Another reason for doing this was to
encourage the interest of those boys who could
not play any one sport well but could shine in
others such as track and field or horseshoe pitch-
ing. Some teams had as many as sixteen mem-
bers with players specializing in particular sports.
Ratings were frequently published and a few of
the captains, I think, memorized them. \Vhen the
ratings were challenged a check back through
score cards convinced the doubting team that
there had been no favoritism.

At the grand “bust-up” on Labor Day the
various champions faced a team picked from the
remaining players who had gone through strict
competition—this being something of a consola-
tion prize. All the good players were thus hon-
ored and everybody was happy. On this day I42
of the 325 players received a diamond shaped
piece of red felt on which was stenciled a white
“L. F.”-——the League letter given at the recom-
mendation of the captains to all who had played in
50 per cent of the team’s games or had won first
place in track. And the eighteen-year-olds were

(Continued on page 260)

 

Space Requirements

for the
Children's Playground

(Part One)

HE OPPORTUNITY which play affords for the

free expression and development of the

child’s life has long been recognized by
thoughtful educators. Its possibilities for charac-
tcr education are becoming increasingly accepted.
“Big muscle activity stimulates growth and for
the growing child is absolutely essential.”1 The
value of athletic games and sports in the growth
and development of the vital organs, resulting in
improved health and increased vigor, is to a large
measure responsible for their widespread empha-
sis in physical education programs. The impor-
tance of developing in children fundamental game
skills and interests in the arts and crafts makes
the play—motivated projects of these types in
playground programs of special significance.

The Children’s Playground

Before attempting to determine space standards
for the children’s playground a clear definition of
terminology is essential. In this statement, and
in accordance with a widely accepted definition
of the term, the children’s playground is under-
stood to mean an outdoor area which provides
opportunities for children, primarily between the

ages of five and fifteen, to take part in a variety
of fundamental and enjoyable plav

activities. Where, due to space or
o t h e r limitations, a playground
area serves only children up to ID
or II years of age, it is variously
known as a small children’s play-
ground, junior playground or pri-
mary playground. Such an area
differs widely from the standard
children’s playground in space re-

quirements and in the facilities

1

ix 

Courtesy Miami Beach Recreation Department

This statement was prepared
by George D. Butler of the
staff of the National Recre-
ation Association, after con-
sultation with Lee F. Han-
mer and Clarence Arthur
Perry of the Department of
Recreation, Russell Sage
Foundation, who developed
the play space standards in-

cluded in the reports of the 1-
Regional Plan of New York

and Environs.

6‘  in

J

‘6

 

Soccer is one of the sports which provides the big
muscle activity so essential to the child's growth.

provided. The neighborhood playfield, another
type of play area, differs from the children’s play-
ground in that it is intended primarily for the
use of young people and adults although it gen-
crally provides a section for the play of children.
The athletic field, a type which in some respects
resembles the neighborhood playfield, is used al-
most exclusively by young people and adults for
highly organized games and sports, and seldom
provides any facilities for children. The term
children’s playground is often loosely applied to
such areas as a small school yard used for physi-
cal education or play, to the section of a park
in which some playground apparatus has been
erected or to a vacant lot used for children’s play.
It is obvious, however, that such areas do not
fully meet the requirements of the children’s play-
ground. The following statement contains a dis-
cussion of the space requirements and facilities
cf the children’s playground and also of the junior
or primary playground. The neighborhood play-
held and the athletic field, which are not primarily
children’s play areas, are not considered here.

As a rule the children’s playground is at one
of the following locations: (I) a
special area developed for this par-
ticular use; (2) at or adjoining an
elementary or grade 'school site;
(3) in a neighborhood or large
park; (4) in a neighborhood play-
field. Due to a lack of adequate
planning there are many neighbor-

 

Health Education, a report of the Joint
Committee on Health Problems in Educa-
tion of the National Education Associa-

tion and the American Medical Associa-
tion, 1924.

' 235

236 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

hoods which have no children’s playground.
Others have two or more children’s play areas,
often small and inadequate. Satisfactory provi-
sicn for children’s play demands that each neigh-
borhood served by an elementary school should
have a children’s playground. If the definition
of the children's playground as stated above is
accepted, it follows that the ages, needs and inter-
ests of the children to be served by the play-
ground are essentially the same and that approxi-
mately the same game areas and facilities should
be provided, regardless of the place at which it is
located or of the authority which administers it.

Since the playground is intended to serve pri-
marily children of the same ages as are served by
the elementary or grammar school, and since it is
(lesirable that a school and a playground be situ-
ated within easy walking distance of each home,
the increasing tendency for children’s playgrounds
to be located at or adjoining elementary school
sites seems a logical one. In purchasing sites for
new schools, school authorities are increasingly
acquiring areas large enough to serve not only
school but also neigthrhood playground needs.
In many instances where existing school sites have
beat inadequate, school or city authorities have
acquired adjoining or nearby property for play-
ground purposes. In several instances schools
have been located near existing parks with play-
ground facilities and areas which have been made
available for school as well as community use.
Regardless of who owns or controls the property,
the children's playground should be made avail-
able at all times. under reasonable regulations, for
the play of children within the age group it is
intended primarily to serve. It should afford a
wide range of opportunities for taking part in
the play activities essential to the children's
growth and development.

In some cities the park playgrounds and school.
play areas have been acquired and developed with
little or no relation to each other or to the total
play needs of the children in the neighborhoods in
which they are located. Park playgrounds as a
rule differ widely from school playgrounds in
general layout and development, apparatus, facil'-
ties. space, beautification and topography. As a
result there is a rather widespread notiOn that
school playgrounds should provide certain facili-
ties. park playgrounds different opportunities, and
that the special municipal playground should make
possible still other and perhaps wider types of
game courts and equipment.

Seldom does either the existing park or schoor
playground meet fully the play needs of the chil-
dren in its neighborhood and often both combined
fail to do so. On the other hand, the cost of
acquiring, equipping and maintaining two Or more
playgrounds which serve the same group of chil-
dren is likely to be much greater than if one ade-
quate playground is provided. Because of this
fact and because the total play needs of the chil-
dren in any neighborhood should be given pri-
mary consideration in providing playgrOunds, dis-
tinctions as to types of children’s play areas are
disappearing. Increasingly park, school, recrea-
tion. city planning and other municipal authori-
ties, rec0gnizing more clearly than before that
they have a common problem in helping make
available to children opportunities for a well-
rounded play life, are working together to pro-
vide an adequate children's playground in each
neighborhood. Obviously no standardized size,
arrangement, equipment or deveIOpment of the
playground is either possible or desirable because
of varying conditions and needs in each neigh-
borhood. However, if the play needs of the chil-
dren are to be adequately served and if duplica-
tion of areas and costs is to be avoided, the
children’s playground as previously defined must
provide spaces, facilities and equipment which will
serve all the various play needs of the children
living in the neighborhood. The primary purpose
of this statement is to determine these essential
features and their space requirements.

It is necessary to face the fact that in many
built-up neighborhoods adequate play space does
not exist today, and the likelihood of securing it
in the near future seems very slight. Most of
these neighborhoods have an elementary school
and rarely are these school sites entirely devoid
of play space. Where play space is very limited,
school and municipal authorities are confronted
with the problem of determining how it may he
used most effectively. Shall the use of the small
play areas be restricted to the young children
who se activities require. comparatively little
space? Or shall all children up to I 5 years of
age have an equal chance to use them as far as
space permits? The fact that the older children
are interested primarily in organized games re-
quiring considerable space means that when they
are allowed to use a small play area also used by
younger children, they either monopolize the space
or their play is likely to prove a hazard to the
younger ones. The problem of discipline is also

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 237

An example of a
school playground
intensively used.
What wonder that
the school child-

ren of Chicago vo-
tedforalargeplay-
ground!

increased by the wide range of ages on a small
area and attendance, especially of the young chil-
dren, is likely to dwindle. Therefore, it is sug-
gested that where a neighborhood has a small
playground, its use be restricted to children up to
[C or 11 years of age. A satisfactory prOgram
for this age group may be conducted on a much
smaller area than is needed for the same number
of children, part of whom are older. An attempt
will be made in this statement to determine the
minimum size for such a junior or primary play-
ground. It must be recognized, however. that
this type of playground, although it may serve
the younger age group, does not meet the needs
of the II to 15 year old children who must be
provided for elsewhere.

In cities where the junior high school plan has
been adopted and where adequate play facilities
are afforded in connection with them, the play
needs of some of the 11-15 year-old group are
partially met. Even in these cities, however, the
11 and 12 year—old children are in the elementary
schools. Furthermore in a majority of communi-
ties the elementary or grade school serves children
through the eighth grade, or through I4 years of
age. Even in cities having junior high schools the
service radius is so great that many of the 7th
and 8th grade children will be dependent upon
play resources in the neighborhoods where they
live, especially for week-end and vacation play,
rather than upon the junior high school facilities
which are so far from their home. Therefore,
in most instances the neighborhood children’s
playground is the area which must supply the
play opportunities for the 11-15 year—old group
as well as for the younger children.

 

Another factor to be considered is the increas-
ing tendency during recent years for the play-
ground to be used as a neighborhood center by
young people and adults, especially evenings and
week-ends. This tendency is encouraged in many
cities, and it seems likely that playgrounds will
increasingly become centers for family and neigh-
borhood play. The possible use of a playground
by young people and adults naturally affects the
space requirements even though it may not change
to any degree the types of areas or facilities to be
provided. It is obvious that the number of persons
using the playground at one time will be larger
than if children alone were cared for. Some of
the game courts will also require more Space in
order that young people and adults may use them
to advantage.

Still another factor which must be considered
is the necessity of providing in the playground
for the children of pre—school .age. In many
neighborhoods of single family houses, each with
a back yard, it is unlikely that much special provi-
sion will be needed for this age group, since most
parents desire to keep their toddlers at home.
In congested or apartment districts, however, if
safe outdoor play opportunities are to be made
available for children of pre-school age, it is some-
times necessary that they be afforded on the chil-
dren’s playground. Special areas and facilities
are needed if this group is to be served.

How Large Should the Playground Be?

“How large should the playground be ?” This
question is often asked and the answers are gener-
ally indehnite or suggest widely different sizes.
Various attempts have been made by playground,

238 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

school, park, city planning authorities and others to
determine playgrOUnd space requirements and fa-
cilities. The problem has been approached from
several different points of view. School authorities,
in considering elementary school play areas, have
had in mind primarily the fundamental require-
ments of the physical education program. Others
have thought of the playground essentially as a
place for the children to play, and have empha—
sized the element of fun and enjoyment. Still
others have recognized the importance of activi-
ties having educational value, other than the ath-
letic or big-muscle type, such as the arts and
crafts. manual, dramatic and music activities. A
very important feature of playground design,
more frequently and amply provided in park
than in school playground areas, is beauty.

It is obvious that the number of children to be
served by a playgrOUnd will influence the total
amoum of Space and the amount of equipment
needed. On the other hand, the essential play
needs of even a small number of children require
a certain minimum number and variety of equip-
ment and game spaces. For example, if the play-
ground is to afford an opportunity to play play-
ground baseball a field for this game must be pro-
vided regardless of the total number of children
to be served. Naturally, with substantially larger
numbers of children to be 'served the amount of
equipment, apparat-
us and game areas

The amount of space required for the vorious play needs and

will need to be increased. For purposes of this
statement, normal urban or surburban conditions
are assumed in attempting to determine standards.
Rural or small, sparsely settled communities pro-
vide conditions requiring special study, as do
also the highly congested tenement or apartment
districts found in some of our largest cities.
Since most children do not walk more than a
quarter of a mile to reach a playground, it is gen-
erally agreed by recreation leaders and city plan-
ners that there should be a playground within a
quarter to a half mile of each child’s home, de-
pending upon density of population, trafiic condi-
tions and other factors. It may be assumed that
where the population is dense playgrounds should
be provided at more frequent intervals than in
neighborhoods composed of single family houses.
Therefore it is possible to indicate a general
standard of space requirements for children’s
playgrounds which will apply to the usual urban
conditions. \Vhere a playground must serve an
unusually large number of children, this fact must
be taken into consideration in determining the size
necessary to provide for their play needs.

A reasonable basis for determining a satisfac-
tory answer to the question "‘How large sh0uld
the playground be ?” would seem to involve a
study of the various play needs and interests of
children and the space required in order that they
may be adequately
provided for. In

interests of children must determine the ployground's size.

_— ———---_'_

 

chum" Ff!" H. wing (separation. N“? l «l

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 239

the following pages an attempt is made to answer
the question, and the conclusion is reached that
between 31/; and 4 acres are required in order to
provide the spaces and facilities considered neces-
sary for an adequate playground program for chil-
dren 5 to 15 years of age. In arriving at this
standard the following requirements, all of which
are essential, have been taken into account: (1‘)
Physical activities and team games commonly in-=
cluded in and recognized as essential to school
physical education and playground programs; (2)
Spaces and facilities required for these activities
both during the regular school session and in
after-school, noon hour and vacation periods; (3)
Other play interests and activities—manual, mu-
sic, dramatic, nature and craft; (4) Free play
activities such as group games, swinging, wading,
which the children enjoy apart from their educa-
tional or health values; (5) Playground beautifi-
cation; (6) Space for free circulation, paths and
safety zones.

Any area which is intended to serve as a chil-
dren’s playground should meet all these require-
ments, and a fair consideration of them is believed
to afford a sound basis for determining a space
standard. If provision needs to be made for the
pre-school children, or if any considerable use of
the playground by young people and adults is
contemplated, these two additional factors must
be considered.

Physical Educational Requirements
School physical education leaders have given

.a great deal of study to the activities and facilities

which provide the best opportunities for bodily
growth and development among boys and girls.
Educators are in fair agreement as to the validity
of these requirements and in many cities have
gone far toward meeting them. Therefore, since

\

Equipment

Safety climbing tree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Safety platform slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Horizontal bars (graduated) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

(Installed in sets of three) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Parazontal Bars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Horizontal Ladders (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Stationary travel rings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Giant Stride . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Junglegym (junior) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

athletic games, stunts on the apparatus, and other
play-motivated physical education activities com-
prise an important part of the playground pro-
gram, whether at school or elsewhere, the stand-
ards worked out by playground and physical edu-
cation authorities will be used as a starting point
in determining playground space standards. The
requirements for an adequate physical education
program, rather generally agreed upon by leaders
in this field, are listed in the manuals issued by
many State Education Departments. These man-
uals will be used as a basis for listing the essential
features.

Physical education programs and requirements
for elementary schools are generally designed for
either six or eight grades. Even though a majority
of cities are using the 8-grade system, the junior
high school, following a 6-grade elementary unit,
has been widely adopted. Therefore, separate
requirements have been worked out for each type
of elementary school. In attempting to determine
a space standard an enrollment of 600 has been
assumed. * This is greater than that of many
schools, but in view of the tendency to build
larger units and of the fact that leading school,
administrators recommend a much larger unit for
effective operation, this enrollment may be consid-
ered as a fair average. With an understanding
of the basis for determining requirements it is
possible to calculate how much more or less space
will be required for schools of different sizes.

Playground Apparatus

Playground apparatus is recognized as having
great value in the muscular development of chil-
dren and is almost universally recommended as
essential in the physical education and play pro-
gram. According to the California physical edu-
cation manual,2 elementary school playgrounds
should be_provided with the following equipment.

Minimum Area Required Recommended
for Installation for Grades
10’): 10’ = 100 sq. ft. k, 1, 2
15’): 30' = 450 sq. ft. 1, 2, 3
20'): 25': 500 sq. ft. (low) k, 1, 2, 3
(Int-high) 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
20' x 30' = 600 sq. ft. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
15’ x25’ 2 375 sq. ft. (low) 3, 4, 5
375 sq. ft. (high) 6, 7, 8
25’x 25’ 2625 sq. ft. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
35'): 35’ = 1,225 sq. ft. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
15' x12’ 2 180 sq. ft. All grades

* A study made by the National Education Association of 21_l elementary school sites purchased from 1920-1926 in 95 cities showed
that the medium group, on the basis of the number of pupils to he accommodated in the buildings to be erected on the sites, was

500 to 599 pupils!

2. Neilson and Van Hagen, Manual of Physical Education Activities for Elementary Schools, p. 63. Sacramento, California; State

Printing Odice, 1929.

.3. See Englehardt and Englehardt, Planning School Building Programs, p. 130. New York, Bureau of Publications, Teachers Col-

lege, 1930.

240 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

The total space required for this equipment
intended to serve a school of eight grades is 4,430
SQuare feet. Schools having only siat grades do not
need the high horizontal ladder which requires
375 square feet. On the other hand, a 6-grade
school with the same enrollment might need an
additional slide or climbing device since there will
be a larger number of young children. Other
physical education authorities might vary this list
but the space requirements would not differ wide-
ly. The parazontal bars are not commonly used
but other items not included in the list, such as
the balance beam, climbing poles, ropes or ladders
are frequently installed. There can be little ques-
tion that between 4,000 and 5,000 square feet are
needed for the apparatus section.

Areas and Facilities for Games and Sports

The major essential in the physical education
program is space for games, relays and athletic
activities. These include a great variety, ranging
from the simple circle and running games of pri-
mary grade children to the highly organized sports
of the eighth graders, and from the individual
stunts and events to the team games. Medical
authorities testify as to the value of athletic games
and sports in the growth and development of the
vital organs and their stimulus to improved health
and vigor. In order that the children may have an
opportunity to participate regularly in these activ-
ities essential to health and development, ample
and suitable spaces are necessary.

Two cousiderations are important—that suffi-
cient open space be available to permit the children
enrolled in the school to participate on a scheduled

 

Conn-1y Pawn-ed Pererlmnf, Newton, .110".

basis, and that the various areas needed for essen-
tial games requiring special equipment or surfac-
ing also be provided. In view of the wide range
of games and activities it is to be expected that
opinions will differ as to just which are essential
or of major importance. Educational and medi-
cal authorities agree, however, as indicated in the
report previously referred to. that of the various
types of physical education activities “games and
sports and athletics afford the best type of exer-
cisc both in respect to physioIOgical effects, and to
the possibility of a constructive contribution to
the formation of social qualities desirable in a
democracy.”

One difficulty arising in an attempt to draw up
Space standards is due to the lack of uniformity
in practice or theory as to the scheduling of in-
structional or play periods. Studies conducted
by the U. S. Office of Education ‘ reveal the fact
that in the majority of cities of 30,000 and over
elementary schools have five weekly periods of
physical education, and in cities from 10,000 to
30,000 an average of four weekly periods. Ex-
cept in larger cities with a special physical educa-
tion staff, where classes are conducted on a stag-
ger plan, the. physical education period is generally
in the morning; it is conducted by the classroom
teachers and from two to four grades are out-of-
doors at one time. Brief afternoon play periods
are being introduced to an increasing extent ac-
cording to reports, but they do not affect the space
requirements for the morning periods.

The proposed physical education facilities for
6-grade schools are based on the assumption that
there are three physical education periods during
which two grades are
using the playground;
grades I and 2, 3 and 4,
and 5 and 6 being on the
ground at different times.
In the case of the 8-
grade school, three peri-

 

-|. Marie .‘i. Reedy. Ph'eicel
Education in City Public Sc 0013,
Physical Education Series, No.
10. Other: of Education, Depart-
ment of the Interior, Washing-

ton, D. C.. Governmcnt Printiru
Office, 1939.

Important as are the big-
muscle type of octivities,
there are many other play
needs and interests which
are of major importance.

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND ' 241

ods are also assumed, with the following grades
using the playground at one time: 1—3, 4-6, 7 and
8. Since this schedule provides for smaller num-
bers of children on the playground at one time
than is often the case when three or four grades
have their physical education period together the
space requirements determined on this basis may
be considered as conservative. The play areas listed
' below are needed for the use of the three groups
in the 6-grade and in the S-grade schools. A small
space is allotted for the exclusive use of the kin-

dergarten children. Space required for apparatus
has previously been determined. Throughout the
following statements the' space requirements in-
clude not only the area actually occupied by the
facilities and game courts but also sufficient space
around them to assure safety in their use. The
activities listed are selected from those most fre-
quently recommended in state physical education
manuals and they are also among those most pop—
ular on municipal playgrounds.

SpacevRequirements for Physical Education in 6-Grade

Group Served
Kindergarten

(2 rooms—60 children)

lst and 2nd Grades
(6 rooms—490 children)

3rd and 4th Grades
(5 rooms—180 children)

5th and 6th Grades
(5 rooms—170 children)
(85 boys—85 girls) Boys

 

Elementary School of 600 Pupils o F
'. t.
Facility or Area Dimension: Rsefcjgm'red
Level area for circle and running games 40'x40' 1.600
Apparatus area (1 room) 4,430
Open space for rhythmic and hunting games such as Looby 40’x50’ (average)
Lou, The Farmer in the Dell, Brownies and Fairies, for each of the
Squirrels in Trees, Midnight, etc. (5 rooms). 5 groups 10,000
Apparatus area (1 room) 4,430
Open space for games and relays such as Dodge Ball, Long 50'x60' (average)
Ball, Gathering Sticks, Jump, Jim Crow, etc. (4 rooms) for each of
. 4 groups 12.000
Playground Baseball (20 boys) 120'x120' 14,400
Simplified Soccer (24 boys) 100’x150' 15,000
Volley Ball (20 boys) 40’x70’ 2,800
High Jump (10 boys) 20'x30' 600
Broad Jump (10 boys) 10'x60’ 600
Basketball (20 girls) 50'x75' 3,750
. Field Ball (22 girls) 100'x180' 18,000
Girls Captain Ball (18 girls) 403:60' 2,400
Long Ball (24 girls) 50'x80' 4,000
Total for 5th and 6th grades . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61,550

Since fairly open spaces are needed for the
first. second, third and fourth grade children, it
is assumed that under a sched-
ule they can use the same areas
as are required for the fifth
and sixth grade groups. There—
fore, the total space required
for the physical education ac-
tivities of the boys and girls
in these last two grades, 61,550
square feet, will be sufficient
for the school needs, as far
as the regular school program
is concerned. The only addi-
tional spaces required are the
apparatus area of 4,430 square
feet and the small area, 1,600
square feet set aside exclu-
sively for kindergarten use.
Therefore, the minimum re—
quirements for the school

Handcraft and other forms of constructive
play are among the non-physical activities
which help build a well-balanced program.

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation, East Orange, N. J.

242 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

physical education program in a 6-grade elemen-
tary school of 600 pupils may be considered as

met if a total of 67,580 square feet, or slightly
more than 1.5 acres, are provided.

Space Requirements for Physical Education in an B-Grade
Elementary School of 600 Pupils

A comparable table of requirements for an 8-grade school follows:

Sq. F: 1
' Group Served Facility or Area Dimension: RcQuin-l
Kindergarten
(2 rooms or periods—40 children) Level area for circle and running games 30'x40' l,200
lst, 2nd and 3rd grades Apparatus area (1 room) 4,430
(6 rooms—235 children) SO'xSO' (aver.)
Open space for rhythmic and hunting games for each of
and relays (5 rooms) the 5 groups l2,500
4th, 5th and 6th grades
(6 rooms—ZlO children) Apparatus area (l room) 4,430
Open space for game or relay (l room) 50'x60' 3,000
Simplified soccer (22 boys) lOO'xISO' l5,000
Bo '3 Volley ball (20 boys) 40'x70’ 2,800
3 High Jump (l0 boys) 20'x30' 600
Broad Jump (10 boys) l0'x60' 600 '
Playground baseball (20 girls) l20'xl20' 14,400
Girls 9 court basketball (24 girls) 50'x75' 3,750
Relays (26 girls) 50'x60' 3.000
Total space for games—grades 4—6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43,150
7th and 8th grades Soccer (22 boys) l50'x2-10' 36,000
(3 rooms—llS children) Boy: Playground baseball (20 boys) lSO'xlSO' 22,500
' Jumping pits (14 boys) ZO'xSO'—10'x60' l,200
G. I: Playground baseball (20 girls) l25'xl25’ 15,625
"' Volley ball (18 girls) 40'x70' 2,800
9 court basketball (20 girls) 50'x75' 3,750
Total space for games—grades 7 and 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81,875

As in the ease of the 6-grade school, the younger
children can use the same spaces as the older
ones do for their games. Therefore, the minimum
space which will serve the needs of the 8-grade
school under scheduled use is that required for
the seventh and eighth grade children—81,875
square feet — plus the apparatus area of 4,430
square feet and the kindergarten area of 1,200
square feet. This total of 87,505 square feet, or
two acres, may be considered as the minimum
essential for the physical education program in
an 8-grade school with an enrollment of 600
pupils. It is approximately 20,000 square feet—
nearly one-half an acre or 30 per cent more than
is needed in a 6-grade school of the same size.
This illustrates the very important factor that the
older boys and girls require a much greater
amount of play space for their games than do the
younger children. Playgrounds must be larger
if they are to serve the needs and appeal to the
interest of the thirteen and fourteen year old boys
and girls. Since the children’s playground is in-
tended to serve this older group and will be used
by it after school and especially during vacation
periods, from the point of view of playground

Space standards it may be assumed that the larger
area, namely, 87,505 square feet, is the minimum
essential for games and other big-muscle activities.
Even this area does not provide for baseball which
is so popular with 11-15 year old boys.

Requirements Applicable to All C hildren’s
Playgrounds

Since many children’s playgrounds are located
in parks, playfields or at other pr0perties acquired
expressly for the purpose, it is necessary to in-
quire whether all of the requirements of the phy-
sical education use of school play areas apply
equally to them. A study of these requirements
reveals the fact that they are based essentially
upon the children’s interests and needs and that
they apply to all children's playground areas. On
a few playgrounds in neighborhoods of single
family houses it may not be necessary to provide
a small area for the exclusive use of children
under six, although this is generally advisable.
One or two of the types of apparatus previously
mentioned might be omitted from a park play-
ground, although the others are in the list of
minimum standard apparatus recommended in a

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 243

report of a committee of seven—
teen leading recreation executives.5
The games, which require most of
the space, are played by large num—
bers of children on all types of
playgrounds. It is, therefore, ap-
parent that these space require-
ments will need to be included in
determining standards for the chil-
dren’s playground.

Use During N on-S chool Periods

Thus far it has been assumed
that the school ground will not be
used at any one time by the chil-
dren of more than three grades
and that this use will be regulated
and “staggered” as a part of the school program.
There are many times, however, such as before
school, during the noon hour and after school,
when a good number of the children from all
the grades will be on the school ground. Many
school systems are conducting after-school play
and athletic programs reaching large numbers of
pupils of varying ages. This situation and the
resulting requirements for active play are not
essentially different from those on a playground
in a park or at a special site after school, week-
ends or during vacation periods. There is little
question that the spaces and courts allotted to the
older boys and girls in the previous discussion will
be needed for after-school play; in fact, there are
many school grounds which have a larger number
of such facilities. Even in the case of the 6—grade
school, the I 3 and I4 year-old children who live in
the neighborhood and who attend junior high
school will be likely to use the children’s play—
ground near their homes after school and espe-
cially week-ends and during vacation. Since the
older children will and should use these facilities,
additional space will be required for the younger
children who will be on the playground at the
same time. In order to permit them to take part
in the various games, stunts and relays that appeal
to this 6-10 year old group and many of which
require considerable space, an additional open area
at least 100 feet square, or comprising 10,000
square feet, will need to be allotted for their use.

Additional Playground Requirements

Heretofore, the discussion has centered about
the requirements for physical education activities.
There are many other factors, however, which

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

Volley ball has come to assume a high de-
gree of popularity among playground sports.

must be considered in determining standards for
the children’s playground, because organized or
group games and apparatus play comprise only a
part of the program on the well managed play-
ground. The needs and interests of children will
continue to provide the basis for determining es-
sential areas and facilities, independent of wheth—
er the playground is located at a school, park or
elsewhere.

Provision for Other Types of Activities

Important as are the big-muscle types of activ-
ities, educational and recreational leaders agree
that other play needs and interests of children are
also of major importance. In any well balanced
playground program provision must be made for
various forms of manual activities such as hand-
craft and constructive play. Opportunities for
water play and for quiet games during the heat
of the day must not be neglected. Space and
facilities are required for them as well as for
music and dramatic activities and nature study, all
of which are important in the play life of the
child. At playgrounds operated in connection with
schools it is often possible to carry on some of
these activities inside the building; in general,
however, it is desirable that they be carried on
out-of-doors, preferably in a shaded area. The
following additional facilities and their space re-
quirements are suggested to care for these needs.

They are recognized as common playground fea-
tures.

 

5. Report of Committee on Standards in Playground Apparatus,
New York, National Recreation Association, 1931.

244 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN'S PLAYGROUND
Facility Sq. FLRequ'ired ‘ ' '— ' .
Sand Boxes (1 for young children) grades. Tennis is not uan ersal’ly accepted as an
(I for older children) . . _ _ _ _ H 600 essential game for the children s playground but
Building block platform (10x15) . . . . . . . , .. 400 it is being provided to an increasing extent and is
Handcraft and quiet game area, e ui es eciall ' advisable when the la ' u '
with tables and benches . . . . . . . . .  to 2,500 Olin to) .01,“ 0 la and a}; ligro 1:1de I? b;
Outdoor theater for music, drama, folk - i g pe p - u .5. 00.} at
dancing and storytelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,000 straight-away for running events is also of value,
\Vadlng pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..3,000 to 4,000 especially for badge test events. If these various
Total ...................... ..7,600to 9,500 games are ‘0 be Played’ ‘he f0"°“'i“g addi‘i‘mal

Important as it is that the playground should
serve the various educational and developmental
needs of the children, it should also provide
wholesome fun and delight for them. Most of the
activities already mentioned are enjoyable if op-
portunity to take part in them is available under
competent leaders. It is also true that most of the
following activities which appeal strongly to chil-
dren have definite educational or health values. If
the playground is to have the maximum drawing
power and really give the greatest possible joy
to large numbers of children, the following equip-
ment, long considered standard playground fea-
tures, must be added. The apparatus is all included
in the list recommended by the Apparatus Stand-
ards Committee previously referred to.‘F

. Apparent: Sq. Ft. Required
Low Slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170

4 Swings (8' high) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600

6 Swings (12' high) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1,500

Balance Beam ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100

See-saws (3 or 4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 400

Junglegym (medium) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 500

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,270

Additional Game Courts and Facilities

No discussion of playground standards would
be adequate that failed to consider several types
of game facilities which were not included in the
previous physical education list but which are
commonly and increasingly found on school and
other playgrounds. Among them are handball,
paddle tennis, horseshoes, tether tennis and ten-
nis. They are games which are popular with large
numbers, have considerable physical and recrea-
tional value, and although not entirely essential
are very desirable. Paddle tennis may be played
on a level area used for other activities, but if the
other games listed are to be played, additional
space must he provided. Horseshoe pitching is a
game with a strong appeal and it requires little
space; tether tennis is less well known. but hand-
ball is exceedingly popular. In one city the ele-
mentary school standard provides for eight single
handball courts for boys of the fourth to sixth
grades and two courts for girls of the same

space will be needed:

Facilities Sq. Ft. Required
Paddle tennis (2 courts—30'x60') . . . . . . . . 3,600

Handball (2 courts—30x3?) . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,100

Tether tennis (2 courts—ZO'XZO') . . . . . . .. 800

Horseshoes (2 courts—lZ’xSO') . . . . . . . . .. 1,200

Tennis (2 courts—SS'leO') . . . . . . . . . . . “13,200

Straightaway (20'x360’) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7,200

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28,100

Shelter Home

There should be available to every playground
a building affording toilet facilities, space for stor-
ing supplies, office for director and a room or
porch providing shelter in case of sudden rain.
These facilities are generally provided in the
school building in the case of playgrounds at or
adjoining school sites. Large park buildings some-
times make it unnecessary to erect shelters on
park playgrounds. On most non-school play-
grounds it is essential to erect such a building, and
the space needed for it must be allowed in de-
termining a standard. It is estimated that 2,500
square feet will be adequate for the playground
shelter.

Landscaping the Playground

Before a listing of the standard requirements is
complete, provision for beauty must be included.
Environment exerts a powerful influence over the
child, and it is possible and important to provide
an attractive landscape setting for the play pro-
gram. Reports of studies have revealed that play-
grounds laid out attractively draw more children
and from a greater distance than unattractive
playgrounds. Trees not only contribute beauty
but afford shade which is desirable in the ap-
paratus area, the outdoor theater, the handcraft
and quiet games section, and the corner set aside
for the youngest children. Boundary fences with
a border planted in grass, shrubs, vines or trees,
preferably outside the fence where the playground
lies along the street, add to the safety and beauty
of the play area. A minimum of 6,000 square feet
and preferably 10,000 square feet may be esti-
mated as essential for this purpose.

(Continued on page 261)

Municipal Recreation Programs

and
Enforced Leisure

By V. K. BROWN

Superintendent, Playgrounds and Sports
Chicago South Park Commission

EISURE becomes of major significance when it

L connotes the idle half of life. People are

thinking of leisure now because it is coming

to mean about half of life, perhaps the most ini-

portant half of life, and we feel that our old

answers to the problem of the idle hour no
longer lit.

The things we do in our leisure are, briefly,
whatever we do uncompelled. They are no
more limited to sport than to study, to amuse—
ment than to research, to play than to art. In
its essence, municipal recreation is tax—sup-
ported facility for, or personal aid toward,
those chosen ends or goals which people seek
in investing their leisure.

Our customary thinking, like our experience,
is conditioned by a life span spent in a phase
of history in which, gloss it over as we may,
Getting has been the mainspring motive, rath-
er'than Being, Doing, Knowing, or even Dis-
covering.‘ The economic career has afforded
more than a living, it has constituted a life,—
offering freedom of action, combat, adventure.
achievement, reward. \Vith a planned economy
a career enters a new phase. If business is
to be mechanical by regulation, its scope lim—
ited and directed, is life longer going to be
lived mainly on its economic level?

Under a planned economy aren’t we likely
to see the passing of the commercial era, life-
seeking freedom and adventure on other levels,
to escape regimentation? \Vill popular heroes
be men of business, poured into the mould of
conformity, or the Lindberghs and the Ad-
miral Byrds? If now we are, in fact, moving
toward piling measure of control on top of
measure of control, must we not concurrently

 

The “art of living.” Are we

fostering it through the public
recreation program? Here is a
real challenge to us. “That rec-
reation department which con-
ceives its mission in terms of a
half dozen games, a dance or
two, some community singing
and a dramatic club suffering
from anaemia, is tossing a

feather to suffering society.”

m

develop outlets into which man’s energies, his
protest against restriction, his escape into free—
dom, may flow to satisfying realization, since
about our deepest craving is that we be indi-
viduals in a free society, rather than atoms in
an integrated cosmos?

Human society has pursued other ends than
gain, holding to other standards than posses—
sion; history is replete with the names of poets
and philosophers, artists, prophets, explorers,
but of how many captains of industry?

Isn’t it possible that the foundation for the
artificiality we have been deploring in our life
in recent years may have been the abnormality
of a life in pursuit of possessions, rather than
a life concerned with the art of living? Haven’t
the wisest among men insisted all along that
satisfaction for our deepest cravings was to
be found in thoughts, not in things; in culture,
not in wealth? If so, possibly we will tune life
more closely to the wave lengths the Creator
endowed us with, if we adjust the dials to dif-
ferent receptivities than those which have pro—
duced such static in our recent hxations.

The Challenge

There is the challenge to this new era we
are approaching, a challenge not of little states, '
but of worlds unlimited to be conquered, a
challenge which brings us reverently to ques-
tion whether God may not have chosen this
moment to set men free from labor to do the
things toward which the ages have been slowly
moving. '

And that challenge is borne with peculiarly
arresting directness to those who deal in pub-
lic recreation. Municipal recreation service

245

246 MUNICIPAL RECREATION PROGRAMS AND ENFORCED LEISURE

meets its patron only when he steps out of
compulsion into freedom of his leisure hours;
it contacts him only when he is aglow with en-
thusiasms. That is where it differs from most
public services,—-—our fortunate difference, but
one which adds immeasurably to our respon-
sibilities.

A group to pursue some common purpose
gets together; certain members prove quicker
at solving problems, and they get into the way
of referring difficulties to those persons; grad-
ually latent abilities evolve until presently the
group is operating under its own self-gener-
ated leadership. \Ve are coming to think that
such practical leadership is possibly the best
sort, trained by doing, as the educators have it.

One of the compensations for the depression
in municipal recreation is that reduced budgets
have forced us to experiment in multiplying
the effectiveness of a limited staff, where a
professional instructor cannot be provided for
every interest the public may develop. It has
resulted in making us wonder whether our real
function may not come to be that of enabling
enthusiasts to discover each other, help them
organize, cite to them the sources of help in
the libraries and lore of their subject, and then
force them into the responsibilities of self-gov-
ernment and self-leadership. Community or-
ganization for all-inclusive purposes we tried
twenty years ago. It failed, probably because
our community councils were appalled at the
vagueness and vastness of their problem. Or-
ganization for specific purposes is succeeding;
groups can attack hopefully one purpose at a
time. when the reason for their group exis-
tence is their common interest in the same
problem.

That recreation department which conceives
its mission in terms of a half dozen games, a
dance or two, some community singing, and
a dramatic society suffering from anaemia, is
tossing a feather to a drowning society. Such
makeshifts served the idle
hOUr, but in this era of the
idle half-day, are people
going to golf their lives
away, or execute fours
right and fours left for the
remainder of their days?
Will we make careers of
bridge? \Ve may think
some of our friends will,
but I doubt it.

“That one agency we call government
is seeking through social and eco-
nomic means the same goal which the
churches are seeking through social
and spiritual means. If I were ask-
ed to state the great objective that
state and church are both demanding
for the sake of every inan,wonian and
child in this country, I would say that
that great objective is a more abund-
ant life.”—FranIcIin D. Roosevelt.

Rather, I think, we will turn increas1ngly to
things difhcult, and thrilling things with ceil-
ing to them, things which challenge us to the
limit of our capacities, and still issue new chal-
lengcs as those capacities eXpand through de—
veIOpment. Do you know that over in the
Planetarium there are on exhibition telescopes
made by amateur enthusiasts, representative
of over a hundred actually in existence here in
our city? The makers ground their own lenses,
made their unbelievably accurate assembles,
are members of a national organization of
amateurs nightly searching the skies, and
through systematized observation actually push-
ing out the frontiers of what is known in the
science of astronomy.

A Satisfying Use of Leisure

That is an example, I think, of a satisfying
use of leisure. And the leisure program must
afford everyone opportunity to do the thing he
likes to do, providing, too, for social recogni-
tion of the worth of what is done. It must
canvass the whole run of interests, hobbies
and avocations. \V hat are those interests?

A brief concluding outline may serve to help
think them out in some sort of system. First,
there are the intellectual interests,——history,
literature, languages, the sciences, with all the
discoveries in them, still awaiting research.

In the field of aesthetics there are all the un-
accomplished things in the graphic and plastic
arts, the still unexplored continents in music,
drama, the dance, the pursuit of beauty in ar-
chitecture, from doll house to cathedral, beauty
in dress and interior decoration, needlework,
batik, and all the innumerable art erafts.

In physical aeti0n there are records still to
be established in sports, athletics, and games,
perfections of rhythm and achievement yet
awaiting mastery.

In creative pursuits there are both new and
age-old things still to be done, hardened cop-
per, Tyrian purple, ruby-
stained glass to be redis-
covered, mechanisms yet to
be built, tools designed, pro-
cesses perfected, inventions
devised.

And in altruistie service
to one’s fellow men, with
the passing of a society or-
ganized for the purpose of

(Coutz'mcrd on page 261)

German Youth and Work. Camps

By MILDRED McGEE

HE YOUTH MOVEMENT, which has played such
T an important role in Germany since the war,

has entered into a new phase of its existence.
In the beginning the young pe0ple turned to
nature and the simple life as an escape from the
materialistic world in which they found them-
selves. Camps and Jugendherbergen (shelters)
were started where young people could live and do
their cooking together while they hiked or “wan-
dered,” to use a German term. These camps were
among the first developments of the youth move-
ment.

In 1928, when a call came for relief in the min-
ing districts of Silesia, members of the youth
movement volunteered their services and set up
the first work camp. Thus the idea of voluntary
work service came into existence in Germany.

From 1928 on Germany’s political and economic
problems became more serious, and once again it
was the youth of the country who looked most
ardently for a way out of the difficulties. Youth
movement groups became mainly political groups.
This period of political strife before the national
socialistic party came into power represents still
another stage in the history of the youth move-
ment.

When the present regime came into power the
voluntary work service idea initiated by the youth
movement groups was extended for the relief of
unemployment. On July 16, 1932, a decree was
passed to the effect that all unemployed German
students, peasants and workers between the ages
of eighteen and twenty-five should volunteer their
services for practical work projects for a period
of six months. The decree met with immediate
response and camps were
set up in all parts of Ger—
many for both men and
women. ’

In the camps for men
such work is done as the
making of roads and park—
ing places, the building of
trails and other forestry
work. The women sew

Miss McGee and Mr. Smith, whose article

appears on the following pagc, are both
graduates of last year’s National Recrea-
tion School. Last summer Miss McGee
went abroad to study at Dr. Carl Diem’s
School in Germany. Beforc entering the
school she spent a few weeks at a Work
Camp. Mr. Smith served during the past
summer as assistant recreation director at
one of the Western C. C. C. camps.

for the poor, do agricultural work and assist in
men’s work camps where this is possible. In a few
of the men’s camps women are included. They
are carefully selected and are of a mature type.
It is felt that it is desirable to have women in
men’s camps as their presence improves the gen-
eral tone of the camps.

_ The day’s program for both men and women
is similar.

It is six o’clock in a women’s camp. A loud bell
startles everyone into action. In five minutes the
entire camp is lined up ready for the leader to
start gymnastics which usually consist of running
a quarter of a mile, a fifteen minute period of
formal exercises, followed by marching, the
marchers singing as they go. From 7:00 until
7 :45 the women are free to dress, make their beds
and write letters. At 7:45 the group lines up once
more while the leader reads the day’s schedule
and assigns the work of the day. Then comes
breakfast of coffee and rolls.

Work begins at 8:15. There are five work
groups.

Outside. Work in gardens and fields

Kitchen. Washing dishes and helping prepare
meals

Laundry. Washing and ironing. (When men’s
camps are in the vicinity, their washing and iron-
ing are done by the women’s camp)

Housework. Cleaning living quarters and din-
ing room '

Sewing. Mending and making over clothes for
the poor

Each group has from five to ten workers de-
pending upon the size of the camp. The women’s
camp varies in size from
twenty-five to sixty young
women.

All the workers have a
splendid attitude toward
the work to be done. The
outside work group will-
ingly helps the peasants
in their gardens or in the

(Continued on page 261 )

247

Al: a Civilian

Conservation
Corps Camp

By KENNETH SMITH

Assistant Recreation Director
Camp Wolverton

AMP \\-"or.vr-:R'ro:~:. high up in Sequoia
C National Park, with its beautiful

natural surroundings, provided the
setting where 240 boys from Kentucky
have their opportunity to serve as Uncle
Sam's woodsmen. With the boys work-
ing comparatively few hours'a day. a few
days a week, the problem of filling the
leisure hours has been an important one.
How were they to reproduce the recrea-
tion facilities to which they were accus-
tomed at home so that they might enjoy
familiar sports."

Imagination plus spirit and willingness
of adventure overcame difficulties. \th-
letic fields, play facilities, boxing rings
and a little theater were necessarily crude
and rustic in appearance. but they very success
fully served their purpose.

.july lst saw the dedication of a fine boxing
ring. well roped. surfaced with straw and can-
vas and lighted by oil lanterns hung on the four
cornerposts. .\ regulation playground ball dia-
mond equipped with a home-made backstop was
located a short distance from the boxing ring.
This open space also served for association foot-
ball. field hockey. basketball, speed ball and touch
football. \‘olley ball became immediately popu-
lar. '-\ croquet court was constructed along with a
combination golf putting and bocci ball area. and
tether tennis and table tennis equipment were in-
stalled. This latter game never failed in popu-
larity l'acilities were provided for quoits, a
miniature bowling alley was set 11]) and a basket-
ball hoop was erected close to the center of camp

248

 

t oarfuy U. S. Fem! .‘irrc'r'rr

In such national forests as this, thousands of
young men are finding new opportunities.

for shooting practice. A large meadow close to
the camp was selected for a regulation baseball
diamond. Such activities as camp fire prOgrams.
music. dramatics, nature classes, stunt nights and
discussion groups were initiated.

The camp authorities have built a combination
reading room and recreation hall where the boys
could play chess, checkers. cards and other quiet
games. read magazines, books and papers. and
listen to the radio. More than twenty-five different
quiet games were continuously in use. Among the
games which were most popular were the so-called
individual games which require slight equipment,
could be played at odd moments. and offer a real
challenge to the skill loving player to compete
against his own score.

To supplement the funds provided by the gov-

:‘tdorrtr'nm'd on page 261)

Indian Conservation Camps

HE SPRING of 1933
T found the Indians liv—

ing on the reservations
in the United States in dire
need of relief. When on
March 31st President
Roosevelt signed the Re-
forestation Act authorizing
the expenditure of $90,-
000,000 for relief measures,

By LOUIS c, schROEDER
New” York City

Mr. Schroeder, a worker of long
experience in physical education
and recreation both in the United
States and in foreign countries,
served as supervisor in charge of
Indian Conservation Work, 'Dis-

trict Number four, covering Ari-
zona and New Mexico. He tells
here of the development of the
work and of the changes it

and define boundary lines.
A certain amount of rodent
control work was also done
as there are sections where
the prairie dog is a real
menace.

The commissioner,
through his long and wide
experience, recognized that
there was another impor-

wrought.

a certain amount of this
money was allocated to the
Indians. Eighty-four mil-
lion dollars went to the Civilian Conservation
Corps and $6,000,000 was appropriated for the
Indian Emergency Conservation \Vork to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior.

The task of organizing and supervising this
work for the 15,000 Indians throughout the coun-
try who it was estimated would be benefited by
it, fell to the lot of the‘newly appointed Commis-
sioner of Indian Affairs, John Collier. Never in
the history of the Bureau of Indian Affairs had
such an expenditure been donated for relief
measures. Moreover, quick action was necessary
as the work was to be completed in six months.
Mr. Collier appointed Dr. Jay B. Nash of the
School of Education, New York University, as
director of the I. E. C. \V., and with a number of
assistants Dr. Nash undertook the task.

There were two main objectives—one of pro-
duction, the other of welfare. The I. E. C. W.
project was entirely new, and never before had
anything been planned which approximated it.
The working period of the men was limited to five
days weekly or twenty working (lays per month.
The character of the work carried on in District
No. 4, covering New Mexico and Arizona, con-
sisted of erosion control, the building of reservoirs
and dams, the digging of shallow wells, the de-
velopment of springs and the building of tele-
phone lines, truck trails up the mountain sides for
fire control and barbed wire fences to establish and

Iii/If-
/

I/
r
/

 

tant phase beside that of
production which concern-
ed the welfare of the men
after working hours. In order that a high morale
might be maintained among the workers it was
important that consideration be given to the lei-
sure time of the Indians. The men must be housed
and fed under as hearly ideal conditions as pos- -
sible. A man trained in physical education, recre—
ation and camp management was appointed as
camp director to look after the welfare of the
campers. Forty permanent camps were established
in District No. 4 on the following reservations:
Navajo, Pueblo, Zuni, Hopi, Mescalero, Jicarilla,
Utes and Hualpai. These camps varied from 30
to 200 men in number.

It was a happy coincidence for the Indian that
he was permitted to do the kind of work which
appealed to him and which he himself recognized
was so badly needed in his own territory of Ari-
zona and New Mexico where the great lack was
water. Under the program of work the Indians
constructed hundreds of dams, reservoirs, wells
and springs. This alone has built up a new hope
in the Indian and has given him greater courage to
face the future.

Presenting the Plan to the Indians

The task of presenting this new program
was no simple one. Needy Indians living in the
backwoods were days removed from the agency
headquarters. Information had to be gotten to
them by word of mouth. Especially was this true

249

250 INDIAN CONSERVATION CAMPS

of the nomadic Navajo tribes, few of whom un-
derstand or speak English. The task on the reser-
vations where Chapters were organized was far
easier than on those where there were none.
Visits were made by the superintendents and the
I. E. C. \V. supervisors to the well organized
Chapter houses, and the plan was presented to
them. Men and women with their children
traveled great distances on horseback or by wagon
to attend these meetings. All information about
the governmental relief plans was given to the
listeners through Navajo interpreters. The good
news was enthusiastically received.

The Camp

The idea of setting up a well-equipped camp
where enrolled Indian workers and the ofhcers
could be housed on the same plan as were the
white men in the C. C. C., was entirely new to
the superintendents of the reservations as well as
to the Indians. Some objections were raised at
first as to the advisability of the plan, but once a
model camp was established and in operation the

idea was acceptable to both_ superintendents and
Indians.

There were three types of .camps—one, the
permanent camp presided over by a camp manager
and his assistants; the second, the so-called tem-
porary camp where the men looked after them-
selves, and the third, the family camp where the
workers brought their families and lived as they
did in their summer “hogans."*

It was the policy that whenever twenty-Eve or
more men were to be engaged at a task for a
definite period of time—two or more months—
an efTort would be made to establish a permanent
camp with a camp manager in charge and a cook.
The layout of the camp was unlike that of the
military camp with its gridiron
Streets. The I. E. C. \V. camps
were laid out in the form of a
horseshoe with enough space to
permit the playing of soft ball
games. The center of the space

 

' "Hogan" is Navajo for home. This con-
sists of a circular building with a din
roof havin a small opening at the top to
permit smo e to escape. The opening for
the door is always to the east.

Getting ready for the his battle
at the lndisn conservation camp at
Lee du Flsmbesu, Wisconsin.

was used for the camp bonfire. The regulation
army pyramidal tent was used for living quarters.
All floors were boarded as were the sides up to a
height of four feet. Iron cots with straw mat-
tresses were furnished. The mess halls and kit-
chens also had their boarded floors and sides,
screened to keep out flies and other insects. All
perishable foodstuffs were kept in a specially con-
structed frame building in use in that part of the
country. Frame structures were erected for bath-
ing and laundry purposes. Hot water heaters
were installed permitting an ample supply of
hot water for shower baths. Latrines were
constructed of wood and were screened. Large
covered garbage pits were built and made fly
proof.

Some camps had special game and reading
rooms. The six camps on the Northern Navajo
reservation had large combination recreation
halls, kitchens and dining rooms built of logs
taken from the adjacent forests. A few camps
were equipped with electric lights and had tele-
phonic communication with the agency headquar-
ters. Every permanent camp had its baseball
field, basketball and volley ball courts and quoit
pitches.

A Day at Camp

Scene: Toadlena Camp

Place: In the Chuska Mountains, Northern
Navajo Reservation, twelve miles west of New-
comb, New Mexico, on Highway 666

Time: Any day

6:00: Reveille

6 :00 - 6 :30:

Dressing, airing of blankets,

cleaning of tents, etc.

6:30-6:45: Breakfast — cereal, fried goats'
meat. bread and coffee

 

6:45 - 7:00: Cleaning
of the grounds by the
campers. (Every bit of
refuse matter is picked up
and placed in proper re-
ceptacles.)

7:00: Trucks take the
men to their work of
building trails in the
Chuska Mountains.

12 :00: Trucks take hot
luncheons to the men at
work. Meals consist of
stewed goats’ meat, vege-
tables, bread and coffee.

1:00: Work begins

INDIAN CONSERVATION CAMPS

At the C. C. C. camp at Lac du Flambeau,
Wisconsin, a program of free-time activi-
ties is conducted under the leadership of a
trained recreation leader. After returning
from work at four o’clock the boys and
men may take part in games out of doors,
or they may play quiet games, read or rest.
After supper there is a program of sports
and leisure time activities of various kinds.
Saturday night is dance night for the boys
and men and their friends, and there is
sometimes an Indian dance in full war re-
galia. Music for the dancing is provided
by the boys themselves, twenty-five of
whom play in the camp band, rehearsing
three nights a wcek. Two nights a week
there is practice for the camp orchestra.
A number of educational classes are
conducted.

251

Taos Indian named An-
thony Mirabel. When the
story of the I. E. C. W. on
the Mescalero reservation
is written, this man’s
name will s t a n d out
prominently for his influ-
ence was far spread.

The Indian As a Lover
of Sports

After a close association
with peoples in various
parts of the world ex-
tending over a quarter of
a century, we have come

again.

5 :00: Trucks transport
men back to camps.

5:15 - 5:30: Men take showers (hot or cold).

5:30 - 6 :00: Supper—meat, vegetables, dessert,
bread and coffee.

6:00 - 7:30: Recreation period for active
games—baseball, basketball, etc.

7:30 - 9:00: Singing and dancing

9:30: Lights out.

During the last period of the day comes a pro-
gram of songs and dances when every Indian
joins the circle, his arms around his neighbor, and
takes part in the dancing and singing.

Living Together at Camp

. Those of us who were projected into the at-
mosphere of the Indian country for the first time
heard on every hand a statement that one could
not mix the nomadic Navajo with the Pueblo
tribe. It simply could not be done, we were told.

The first experiment in bringing various tribes
together was made on the Zuni reservation, when
Navajo Indians were introduced to Zuni Indians
in the largest camp. At first the camp superin-
tendent kept them apart. Experiencing no diffi»
culty, he decided to have a few Navajo Indians
share living quarters with the Zunis. It proved
very satisfactory. Soon they were not only work-
ing peacefully together but eating, sleeping and
playing together. Obviously it was the camp pro-
gram which made this possible and play was a big
factor.

Apache camps on other reservations, such as
the Jicarilla and Mescalero, had a goodly quota of
Pueblos and Navajos. One of the greatest in—
fluences for good on the Mescalero agency was a

to the conclusion that the

Indian ranks first as a
natural lover of sports. The Indian youth takes
to all forms of athletic games and seems to have a
special inclination for the activities involving such
coordinations as running, throwing, jumping and
striking. It is not to be wondered at that the
game of baseball appeals to him, for he has a
special aptitude for this game and plays it ex-
ceedingly well.

Basketball is another game in which he excels.
There exists scarcely a school yard on the reser-
vations which is without its basketball court.
Rugby football, with its strong bodily contacts,
also makes an appeal to him. The Indian youth
in the I. E. C. W. camps had a special fondness
for kicking, passing and catching the ball after
work periods. He also had a strong desire to play
match games during play time.

The Indian not only enjoys team games but he
likes to participate in events which demand indi-
vidual excellence. Long distance running, jump-
ing and weight throwing are popular with him.
The stick race, in which teams are formed and a
small ball or stick is kicked for such incredible
distances as fifteen to twenty-five miles, is a
favorite event with the Zunis and the Hopis.

Sports were not confined to the youthful mem-
bers of the camps; older men as well were given
opportunity to express themselves in ways that
appealed to them. Horseshoe pitching was popu-
lar with this group. Volley ball was tried out for
the first time in many of the camps. It was new
to most Indians and as it becomes better known
Will be more frequently played.

Singing and dancing, however, are the two
activities which make the greatest appeal. These

252 INDIAN CONSERVATION CAMPS

nave so strong a hold on the Indian that he would
keep them up all night long. The play of the day
always terminated with a group of songs and
dances around the camp fire.

It is not so much what the Indian plays as the
spirit in which he participates. For proper play
attitudes the young white man has much to learn
from the Indian who engages in activities for the
sheer joy of participation. He is not only a good

winner but above all a good loser—the real test
of a sportsman.

The Indian Woman at Camp

As the family camps were established the ques-
tion was raised with the Indian women as to
whether they would like to have teachers from a
selected group of white women especially quali-
fied in the field of domestic science, rug making,
dyeing and other useful household arts. There
was a wholehearted response to this, and plans
were made for two teams to visit the family

camps. One team was assigned to the Zuni reser-'

vation where the program consisted of instruction
in sewing, cooking and child care. Five villages
were visited and training classes held for women
and returned girl students. The activities met
with an enthusiastic response and the work there
will be continued. Two other experts in hand-
craft, aided by a group of Indian women, worked
in the Southern Navajo reservation. The pro-
gram for the Navajo women and children assem-

bled in or near the I. E. C. \V. camps was as
follows:

Recreation (The training of Navajo girls to
direct leisure-time activities)

Rug and blanket weaving

Tanning

Silversmithing

Encouragement of the use of home products.

Lessons Taught the Indian

Dr. Charles \V. Eliot. the late president of
Harvard, once said that the most outstanding con-
tribution America has made to the cause of edu-
cation was the summer camp. It is possible that
the LE. C. W. camps will profoundly influence
Indian life in the Southwest for future gen-
erations.

\\'ltat has this type of camp offered the Indian?

The camp has taught the Indian much regard-
ing sanitation, the proper disposal of refuse mat-
ter and the elimination of flies. Since his "hogan"
is a miniature camp, he will profit by his experi-

ence and observation at camp. Moreover, his camp
experience has taught the Indian lessons in per-
sonal cleanliness and he has learned the value of
nourishing food properly prepared. His months
of association with Indians from tribes other than
his own have been invaluable in the exchange of
ideas and friendly contacts involved. From these
Indians he has learned new dances, songs and
games.

The well regulated life in a clean and whole-
some camp has increased his vigor of body and
mind. \Vhat the established C. C. C. camps have
done for the young white man, the I. E. C. W.
camps have done for the Indian. 'Medical inspec-
tion showed conclusively that many Indians were
malnourished and at first physically unfit to carry

on the arduous tasks expected of them on the
roads and in the fields.

The Results

What of the value of the Indian Emergency
Conservation Work as a whole? Has it done what
it set out to accomplish? Has it brought relief to
needy Indians and strengthened their morale?

The material help to the Indian cannot be ques-
tioned. Along with a rapidly rising market for
wool, hides, lamb, mutton and similar supplies,
have come the first relief pay checks for work
done on the reservations. The Indian should be
in a better position financially this fall than he
has been for a long time. Nor can there be any
doubt about changes along less material lines. The
lndian has been given a chance to do the work
he has waited many years to do. This has been
a tremendous moral stimulus to him, and along
with the work has come the opportunity to spend
after work hours in singing, dancing and playing
games—a program which has kept his vitality at
a high point and has been reflected in the
character of the task performed during his work-
ing hours.

“In 1931 there were twenty-two national parks
in the United States and these had an area of
12,542 square miles. That the people of this
country are beginning to realize the value of these
playgrounds can be seen from the fact that in
1915 they were visited by 335,000 people. andlin
1931 by 3,152,345. Even during the depression the
number of visitors increased. and this is borne
out, I think. by the figures in all our states
as regards their parks." — .lIrs. Franklin D.
Roosevelt.

