And What Are Leisure Activities?
What Do Individuals Want To Do In Their Free Time?

IRST. LEISURE ACTIVITIES are more than recreation and more than education, except as we use edu-
cation in the sense of being practically synonymous with life. The time may come when ma—
chinery will replace entirely the labor formerly done by slaves, and such work as there is will be

play and recreation, and most of life will become recreational. And of course if we are wise enough we
can extract some education from every activity and from every experience.

But using words in their more commonly accepted sense and thinking of activities not as God
thinks of them but as the person carrying on the activities thinks of them, much leisure activity is
outside the commonly accepted recreation and education programs.

Many friends. when I ask them what they like best to do. after hanging their heads and apologiz-
ing—linally get up courage to tell me that they would not want to be quoted but “what I really en-
joy' most is eating”!!! And why not? And why so apologize?

Other friends. again after suflicient apology. tell me they like best to sit and talk—~——if the other
person or persons do not do too much of the talking.

Again with apology I am told. “I have to confess that I suffer from spectatoritis. I know that I
ought to do things myself. but I much prefer to watch other persons in dramatic performances. to
watch other persons in athletics. to watch other persons play games.”

No one is ashamed to confess that he likes to read; indeed this statement is made with properly
concealed pride in one’s self.

It is quite evident that many are not good judges of what they like to do. Their wives and
friends are better sources. Several ignored what I know to be their chief delight—just being with their
family and their neighbors—in other words. fellowship.

One activity not mentioned to me by any one was religion. Perhaps because it was too deep to
talk about. Activity in behalf of the church is a source of evident enduring satisfaction to many.
Leisure is made for this activity when otherwise there would be no leisure.

Some of my friends are finding their greatest pleasure in civic and neighborhood association activities.
Often they talk to me in terms of duty. but I suspect them of working much of the time for pure joy.

And what shall we say of the men and women we know who sit up all night at meetings where
they serve without pay as members of school boards. park boards, and as members of party campaign
committees? Governmental service has its devotees and much leisure is thus used and more ought to
be and will be as free time is increased.

What men will pay for boxing. prize lighting. professional baseball. the regular theatre. motion
pictures and other forms of commercial recreation tells the story of the popularity of this form of
use of leisure.

Music is mentioned by many and has a very high and a very deep place. Drama seems to have
tremendous power over those who once give themselves to it. No hours are too long and no one’s
property is safe when the play is being staged. Nature activities appeal to all ages. Craftsmanship
apparently has a growing appeal. Painting. sculpture. art in all forms has a greater response each
year among people even of ordinary capacity as well as among the more gifted. The hold of athletics.
games. dancing. and social recreation is a matter of common knowledge. Travel is not only by ocean
liners and by autos. but also on bicycles and tramping on foot. The demand for trails for tramping
grows. Acquiring knowledge through classes. formal and informal. has its distinct place. Those
who care for scientific experimentation may not be so numerous as certain other groups. but they
lose themselves completely in what they do. Discussion groups of all kinds play an important part'
in leisure. Listening to the radio may not be quite so passive as one would at first think. Sh0pping
-—window. and otherwise—for some painful. is to others a joyous leisure time pursuit.

In other words. free time activities are as varied as life itself and no single word can compass them
all except as that word is used in a sense as wide as life itself. Happy is the individual for whom all
life. and work. and all leisure have an element of recreation. education. comradeship. religion.

It is not for recreation workers to enter fields already occupied in a given locality. but the things
which men want to do when they have free time and when they have no ulterior motive are many
and varied. and there are times when workers will see opportunity to give aid to libraries. to adult
education, to activities for the community. to government service. even to the religious use of leisure.

Leisure does not belong wholly to the school, the library. the recreation center nor to any one
movement. Nor can it be captured by any one movement through money. through number of mem-
bers. through power of organization. What group can give the most service in a non-institutional
way? What group can build in terms of what is necessary for meeting leisure‘ needs for abundant
living—keeping in its own field and not duplicating the work of others? What group can keep from
thinking overmuch of its own survival? What group can avoid competitive definitions of its field
that are for the purpose of enlarging its own areas? That group is apt to be the group with the most

.tality and the greatest survival capacity and val ue. HOWARD BRAUCHER.

When the Piper Pipes

ii

E.

Hulk-MIMI

1! I‘

 r  r  U:

I 1
|
|

“u; mun-in H -;   r - 
[ll hill l 1 I ll" '1 i 5

"AI-

 

"' 'I—
4

"To the rats I shall pipe, and each shall hear all shall iollow rne. Frollicking,dancing, pranc-
the sounds he loveth best; one shall think oi ing, advancing shall they come, until into the
cheese vats,and another oi the opening oi but- river deep and widel will plunge them, and all
ter tubs, and still another oi cupboards oi con- will drown and never a rat more will trouble your
serve. And I shall pipe irorn street to street and town.""'—Frorn uThe Masque oi the Pied Piper."

498

Leisure Time and Educational

Opportunities and Needs

As chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Adult Educa-
tion Council, Dr. Overstreet
presents some of the needs.

EFORE WE Go far toward developing a plan

for the wise use of leisure_time, it would

seem advisable to ask what kind of indi—
viduals we wish to develop in this highly com-
plicated world of ours. It would seem advisable
to ask this both for the sake of the individuals
who are to live as members of our society and for
the sake of the society which is to have them as
its members. Without going into elaborate detail,
I think the question can be answered somewhat
along the following lines :

The bane of any society—and particularly of a
democratic one—is an ignorant citizenry. Hence,
in the first place, we need individuals who are
realistically informed about the current scene.
But the current scene is a changing one. Society
is an on—going process, moving from level to
level of achievement and valuation. Hence, in the
second place, we need individuals who have
imagination as to the possible, the still unrealized
human scene. Furthermore, the age is a social
one. Individual needs and relationships ramify
in all directions, and it is more than ever true that
no man liveth to himself alone. Hence, in the
third place, we need individuals who can work
understandingly and effectively with other people.
Again, despite the temporary recrudescence of
dictatorships, the age is, and
promises increasingly to be, a
democratic one. This means
that direction must come from
within the society itself and
not from some usurping force
outside and beyond it. But a
society capable of self-direc-
tion must be made up of in-

In this issue we continue the publi-
cation of reports from the hearings
of the New York Committee on’ the
Use of Leisure. This will complete
the series of addresses to be pub-
lished in RECREATION. Other re-
ports have appeared in the Decem-
ber 1933 and January 1934 issues

of the magazine.

By HARRY A. OVERSTREET

Professor of Philosophy
College of the City of New York

dividuals capable of similar independence of in-
itiative and judgment. Hence the further re-
quirement, namely, individuals who have within
themselves the resources for intelligent self-di-
rection. Finally, the outstanding conflict of our
age is that between self—interest and the common
welfare. Hence we need individuals of good
social will, individuals habituated to a point of
view, or philosophy of life, which places the
common welfare as paramount.

Obviously individuals with all these qualities
are made, not born. The most significant part of
the social process must consist in taking the
creature as he comes into the world—ignorant,
directionless, unsocialized— and helping him to
build himself into the kind of individual who can
be intelligent and happy within a growing society,
and who, at the same time, can intelligently and
happily assist that society in its process of growth.

Extending the Educative Process

Hitherto this educative process has been con—
fined to the years of childhood and youth. But it
becomes increasingly apparent that most of the
problems which adult life has to confront have
no place within the years of childhood and youth—
ful schooling. Also it becomes obvious that op—
portunities present themselves
in adult life for which child—
hood training can scarcely
m ake adequate preparation.
Contemporary society, there—
fore, requires for its members
an educative process that ex—
tends far beyond youth into
the years of adulthood. This

499

500 LEISURE TIME AND EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES AND NEEDS

is perhaps the most significant new point of view
which has entered the human scene. As it grows
in clarity. and-persuasiveness, it promises to open
up a whole new enterprise for our civilization,
namely, that of making available to all adults op—
portunities for a continuous illumination and en-
richment of their life.

We can be certain, therefore, that the adult of
today and tomorrow will request and will be
given much that his forerunners neither asked for
nor were offered. Thus, he will ask for full op—
portunities to gain the knowledge that he ought
to have about his environing world. He will want
mature access to the physical sciences, so that he
may know the kind of universe he lives in. He
will want access to the social sciences—economics,
political science, sociology—so that he may know
the kind of world that man has built for himself.
Again, he will want to know maturer how his
contemporary world came to be the world it is.
He will want history. Again, he will wish to
know the facts of human nature in his fellows.
He will wish to know these facts, not academi-
cally, but functionally, so that he may adjust him-
self effectively to his social environment. And he
will wish to know the facts about human nature in
himself. Although he is nearest to himself, he is
often farthest removed from an understanding of
himself. He will want an understanding of him—
self in such terms as will make it possible for him
to utilize his powers and evoke his latencies.

Finally, gifted with factual knowledge about
his world and about himself, he will wish to know
why the world as it is is not the world as it con-
ceivably might be. Told that he will find answer
to this insistent question in literature, art, sciences
and philosophy, he will ask that he be given full
access to these, to the end that he achieve for him-
self some measure of wisdom about the whole
human process.

And so out of what society needs and what in-
dividuals need, a new educational enterprise
shapes itself. As yet this enterprise of a continu-
ous, realistic, functional opening up of the mind
of the adult is realized only in small degree. But
the very necessities of our modern existence in-
dicate that it is destined eventually to play a
major part—if not the major part—in the life of
civilization.

Opportunities Available

Small as the beginnings of such an enterprise
in adult education may be, a community such as

our own shows surprisingly both the persistent
demand for it and the degree to which the de-
mand is met. It would be boresome to go into
figures and descriptions, but a survey made by
the New York Adult Education Council shows
some eighty sizeable institutions and organiza-
tions within the city devoting themselves, along
fairly extended lines, to the education of the adult
in the directions mentioned; and in addition, many
informal semi-private groups which it is difficult
to inventory. These efforts include single lectures
and series of lectures, forums, discussion groups,
and classes for intensive study. They cover prac-
tically the entire field of mathematical and physi-
cal science, economics, politics, sociology, history,
art, literature, the languages and philosophy. They
range from opportunities completely open to the
public to the opportunities available only at the
cost of a tuition fee. Agencies which sponsor such
enterprises in adult learning obviously deserve
generous support, both public and private.

Of the opportunities now available, it may be
said that they are by no means operating up to
capacity. Lecture halls are hospitable to still
larger audiences. Classes of all kinds are ready
to welcome the adult who comes seeking instruc—

’ tion. Indeed, it may be happily asserted that

there is no absence of facilities open to adults;
too often the facilities go begging for individuals
to use them.

This brings us to what is perhaps the major
deficiency in our present community situation.
There is no adequate means today for making the
tie-up between facilities ready for service and
adults who would utilize those facilities if they
only knew where to find them. In a great city
like New York there is sorely needed an adequate
and easily findable clearing house of information
to which the individual can go, where, with no
loss of time and without cost to him, he can be
directed to the finding of that which he desires.
This service, in the past, has been partially per-
formed by various agencies, even at the ex-
penditure of time and effort which they could ill
afford. No thoroughly adequate plan for adult
education in New York City can be visualized
which does not include a thoroughly comprehen-
sive center of information and educational advice.

I add the words “educational advice,” for the
individual who comes seeking information as
often as not needs to orientate himself in the
whole educational situation and needs, therefore,

(Continued on page 535)

An Educator Looks at Work and Leisure

By GOODWIN WATSON

Professor ofIEducation
Teachers College
Columbia University

DUCATION has been extending its field rapidly.
It now concerns itself with the whole life of
the community. From concentrating upon
youth it now considers every age level; from
training people simply for a limited number of
vocations, it now considers itself responsible for
the deve10pment of leisure-time interests as well
as of work interests. That brings education and
statesmanship into alliance, because each is trying
to consider the whole rather than the special part
or aspect. From that point of view it is not"
strange that we have to raise some questions that
challenge rather fundamentally the point of view
that has been presented to the Committee by most
of the speakers whom I have been privileged to
hear.

It has been usually assumed that work and lei-
sure should or must be distinctly separated. From
the educational point of view the distinction is not
clear; it" does not seem to be necessary and it cer-
tainly is undesirable. The distinction between
work activities and leisure activities is certainly
not in the thing itself. Almost any activity may
be work for one person and recreation to another.
The difference is less in what we do than in the
way in which we do it, the spirit in which we do it.

In schools we have discovered in recent years
that the best all-round living is not made up of
concentrated grind and empty relaxation, nor of
any alternation between those two. When chil-
dren in a good modern school are preparing a
play, or editing their magazine, or getting up a
campaign to rid the town of flies and mosquitoes,
it is very difficult to say whether they are work-
ing or having fun. Actually many of the values
of work and play are combined. The sharp break
which has been assumed here often between work
and leisure seems to me to be unsuited to man’s
biology, his psychology, and his sociology.

“When an educator looks at work
and leisure in the light of experi-
ences with youth, he is forced to
conclude that adults have not or-
ganized their world very well. Life
is too burdensome and free time too
empty and barren. It would seem
that both need to be modified.”

I understand that humanizing work is not the
main business of this committee, but it may be
well to remind ourselves,“ particularly employers
and makers of NRA codes, that there are two
ways of accomplishing the economic result which
they have in mind. One is to have people work
in concentrated fashion for four hours or six
hours a day, and then have the rest of the time
full of nothing. The other is to do the work in a
different and more leisurely fashion. It may not
be applicable in every type of occupation, but cer-
tainly short hours of intensive grind followed by
long hours of nothing important to do, are hardly
a paradise.

Actually many of us who keenly enjoy our
work and who work at it ten or fifteen hours a
day from choice, organize our own living in such
a way that it is extremely difficult to separate
work and leisure. Often we say we have no lei-
sure, by which we mean that all the time we are
busy doing something that seems to us important,
seems to us worth doing, and at the same time
which we enjoy doing. '

This attitude is not new. When an Indian made
a canoe or went hunting, it was hard to tell
whether the activity should be called work or
play. When a pioneer ancestor went to quilting
bees, corn huskings and barn raisings, he took
part in real life enterprises which combined good
fellowship, recreational value, creative participa-
tion, and the doing of something that was re-
garded as distinctly important.

Turning to our leisure-time activities, it seems
to me that the center of attention has been on
activities that for the ordinary citizen are too un-
important. That is obvious with reference to a
great many of the froth activities—bridge, jig-

501

502 sz EDUCATOR LOOKS AT I-VORK AND LEISURE

saw puzzles, movies, lectures, loal‘ing, which fill
up a great deal of the time at present. But I won-
der whether, if we use this criterion of the pro-
ject, that is, the integration of doing something
vitally important for the individual and commun-
ity with enjoyment, we can’t find a better solu—
tion. Any kind of free time is certainly no pre-
monition of paradise.

What can we create in a metropolitan, twenti-
eth century civilization that will be a good substi-
tute for the good times our forefathers used to
have when they met to fix up the church roof, or
to have a chicken dinner, or to boil down maple
sap into sugar, or to carry on a town meeting?
The answer turns us, it seems to me, to another
fact which has not often been emphasized here.
In spite of the age of plenty which has been men-
tioned, in spite of the tides of talk about turning
from production to an age of consumption, I sup-
pose not five per cent of our people have at
present as much food and shelter and clothing and
furniture, recreational opportunity and so on, as
they want. The existing economic system forces
them to stop working for pay before they have
earned all they want.

What do you do? It seems to me that the
answer, at least the next step. wOuld seem to be
to help these people to use some of their free time
to produce things which they very much want but
could not otherwise afford. Maybe it will be hats,
maybe it will be plays, maybe it will be furniture,
maybe it will be tennis courts, maybe pictures,
perhaps trips, maybe it will be cooperative buy—
ing; perhaps it will be child care and service in
the home.

I should begin by a survey which would ask
citizens in every walk of life: What would you
do if you had 20 per cent more income than you
have at present? I should work out a leisure—
time program schedule to give these millions of
people a chance to come as near as they can in the
use of'their leisure time to the achievement of
that _level of life which they would set for them-
selves in answer to such a question.

Of course, I don’t mean more time at the same
old kind of work. I mean a new quality of ex-
perience like the work in the modern school or
the club at which children voluntarily spend long
hours. I mean giving them the fun of making
their own plans as to how they shall do it, the
right, of course, to decide when they shall begin,
when they shall stop, the companionship of
friends whom they enjoy, but above all, a sense of

accomplishing something that is for them vitally
important. Every project of this integrated sort
would seem to me to be a contribution not only
to the use of leisure but a model of what all our
working time ought to become in the near future.

One further suggestion: You understand my
basic assumption is that people should use their
free time to do the things that matter most to
them, but whenever people, groups of citizens, try
to turn their wishes into reality, we have what
may be called political activity in the broad sense
of the term. I suppose it is true that our popu—
lation is generally politically illiterate in the sense
that they do not know how to act t0gether for the
ends that they care most about. Is there a pos—
sibility that free time could profitably be used in
this way? .

I was greatly interested in Mr. Braucher’s
question to Secretary Newton Baker the other
day as to whether it might not be possible to use
leisure time in connection with voluntary public
service. If we carry that on down and imagine
the sort of activities which engage the attention
of this Committee, multiplied by the hundreds, so
that thousands of citizens have an opportunity to
participate in investigating how their city and how
their economic life and how their government can
be made better to meet their basic needs, I won-
der if we don’t have another helpful answer.

Unfortunately, so many of the proposals which
I have heard discussed here seem to me to be pro-
posals to use free time to distract people from
getting the-things which they most want. Organi-
zations seem to be offering “busy—work” to help
needy people forget their basic troubles. That
seems to me to be the opposite of a sound educa-
tional approach, which must begin with what
people want most and help them get it. We must
organize groups centered about common needs
and problems, and help them make effective prog-
ress toward whatever they most deeply and
strongly desire.

Dr. Overstreet has suggested a program which
seemed to me to stop short of complete educa-
tional significance because it ended with ideas
rather than with achievement and action. I am
talking about a program of political pressure, eco-

nomic pressure, publicity pressure, educational'

pressure, which looks to achieving things and not
merely understanding or appreciating them. I am
looking toward a program which will really blend
enjoyment and fellowship in a sense of doing the
thing that is vitally important.

The Leisure Services of Museums

Our museums of art and natural history must
play an increasingly large part in the devel-
opment of the eitective use of leisure time.

Leisure Services of
Art Museums

By HUGER ELLIOTT

Director oi Educational Work
Metropolitan Museum of Art

HE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART is Open
T every day in the year from ten to five on the
first five week days, from ten to six on Sat—
urdays, and from one to six on Sundays. On
Mondays and Fridays an admission fee of twenty-
five cents is charged but admission on those days
is free to members of the Museum, to teachers
and pupils from the public schools of the city, and
to holders of student’s cards.
These cards may be obtained
by any duly certified student
or practitioner in the field of
the arts and permit the hold-
ers to copy or sketch in the
galleries.

From October through
June, at half—past two on
Saturdays and S u n d a y s,
talks, free to all, are given in the galleries by
members of the educational staff. These afford
the visitor the opportunity of studying the col-
lections in chronological sequence.

The instructor meets the visitors in the entrance
hall of the Museum and conducts the group to
the gallery where the talk is to be given. The
auditors are encouraged to ask questions and to
discuss the various points that come up in the talk.
At the Information Desk and in the Library the
visitor may consult a brief list of books dealing
with the topic or period under discussion. In
addition to this, appointments may be made on

 

“The first duty, perhaps, of a
great museum of art, is to col-
lect great works of art so that
these may be enjoyed by the
people. The next step is that of
getting people to enjoy them.”

these afternoons for talks on special topics, any
group being at liberty to ask for such guidance.
At three o’clock on Sundays, from November
through March, talks are given by staff members.
the general theme being the study of the prin-
ciples of design and color as exemplified in objects
of daily use. The illustrative material used con—
sists of furniture, textiles, ceramics, etc., from
the Museum collections and from the many stores
that generously cooperate with us in this work.
These objects are arranged in a specially lighted
alcove at the end of a classroom, and not only are
their relations one to another, analyzed, but each
is studied in turn for the help that it may give in
clarifying the ideas of the auditor concerning
design, proportion, color-relations, and so on.
From November through March, at four o’clock
on Saturdays and Sundays, the Museum offers its
visitors the opportunity of
hearing specialists in the vari-
ous fields of art and archae-
ology, these guest speakers
being drawn from the uni-
versities and the professions
both at home and abroad. On
T h u r s d a y s at two—thirty
there are free showings of
the films produced by or for

   

the Museum.

The members of the educational staff, on week
days, meet visitors by appointment. A nominal
fee is charged for this guidance, although it is
free to members of the Museum and to teachers
of the public schools and their classes. A number
of lecture courses, ranging in length from six to
thirty meetings, are given each winter, a few be-
ing held in the evening. Fees are charged for
these courses.

The reference library of the Museum, open to
all visitors, houses about 75,000 books, supple-
mented by a large collection of photographs and

503

504 THE LEISURE SERVICES OF MUSEUMS

color prints. The Extension Division of the
Library contains, for circulation at nominal fees,
over 60,000 lantern slides and many colorprints
and photographs. The public schools of the city
may use them without charge. In the study-
rooms, notably those of the Department of Prints
and of Textiles, the visitor may examine exten—
sive collections of original material.

It is, of course, unnecessary to stress the value
of museum study not only for painters, sculptors
and designers in every field, but also for students
of the various aspects of the story of civilized
man. In the Metropolitan Museum of Art are the
records of the aspirations of men through five
hundred years of history. The Museum, by means
of its vast collections, its publications, and its
staff of curators and instructors, offers to all
comers the facilities not only for practical aid but
for spiritual growth.

Leisure Time Developments
oi Museums

By PHILIP N. YOUTz

Assistant Director
Brooklyn Museum

AST YEAR the Brooklyn Museum extended its
hospitality to 754,615 visitors and this year
it has already welcomed 698,906 with the

probability that the total attendance for 1933 will

reach nearly a million.
The policy of the Museum is to meet the visitor

more than half way and to give him the kind of
suggestion and guidance which will enable him to
discover hobbies and forms of recreation and edu-
cation best adapted to his own needs. We have
always been extremely careful, however, in no
way to intrude on the visitor or to institutionalize
or organize his leisure time in a way that would
seem to rob him of the free-
dom and delight which one
associates with voluntary rec-
reation. ‘We feel it is of
prime importance that the
initiative, even in leisure—
time activity, should always
remain with the visitor and
that our function is to sug-
gest possibilities and inviting
opportunities to indulge his

“The work of the Brooklyn Museum

may be summed up by saying that it
is distinctly a museum of the people
and for the people, a very human
place, a hospitable center for recrea-
tion. Scholarship and research, and
cven the collections themselves, have
all been subordinated and directed
to this one end of making the Mu-
seum a delightful place for the pub-
lic to spend its leisure time.”

interests. In any museum the permanent exhibi—
tions are the starting point for a leisure-time pro-
gram. In Brooklyn these have been chosen par-
ticularly to appeal to the tastes of the community,
and the permanent exhibitions have been planned
to please not curators or connoisseurs but the
visitors who look forward to spending their
leisure time in the Museum.

Through its program of special exhibitions the
Brooklyn Museum has done a great deal of work
in interesting foreign groups of its population.
During the last few years there has been a series
of national exhibitions. For example, at present
there is a Polish exhibition. This was opened
with a Polish program and a special appeal has
been made to this nationalistic group. By means
of these exhibitions the Museum has been able to
give a great many groups of foreign origin some—
thing of the cultural background and artistic rich-
ness which they lost when coming to this country.

Brooklyn people have always particularly en-
joyed music and after a few hours of visiting the
galleries they like to go to the Sculpture Court for
a Sunday afternoon organ recital. This year the
Museum has also been fortunate in being offered
the services of the New York Civic Orchestra.
Every Saturday morning this orchestra gives a
program especially for children, which is attended
by some two thousand people, and every Satur-
day afternoon a concert for adults attracts up-
wards of three thousand. These concerts are held
in the Sculpture Court, which makes a beautiful
visual background for the program.

During the summer a new education section
was built with light attractively decorated studios
and conference rooms. Here the docents meet
with groups and allow them actually to handle and
become acquainted with objects outside the Mu—
seum cases. Everything possible is done to give
these groups an informal atmosphere of recrea-
tion rather than to repeat the schoolroom routine.
Children, for example, regard a trip to the Mu-
seum as a holiday. Adults
come to the department to
discuss some object they
have bought in a secondhand
shop with the same eager
seriousness that they might
pick out a new fishing rod in
a sports shop. A great deal
of the education department’s
work consists in leading a
whole series of “interests

THE LEISURE SERVICES OF MUSEUMS 505

groups.” Among these may be mentioned as typi—
cal the sketching class, life class, soap class, junior
art class, weaving club, metal club, block print
club, nature club, dramatic club, etc.

Each of the curators and many of the local
artists and collectors use the Museum as a con-
venient meeting place for a small circle of friends
or students interested in some hobby especially
congenial to them. There is almost no limit to
this type of leisure-time activity except that of
physical space. If the Museum could be open
evenings many thousands more could enjoy group
activities and hobbies connected with the Museum
collections. As it is' something like 100,000 chil-
dren are served by the Museum each year.

One of the most interesting features of the
education department’s program is the national
pageants which are put on during the year by the
children. Often these are closely connected with
the special nationalist exhibitions held at the
Museum. The children make their own stage
properties, write their own plays, and do their
own acting. The national fetes held thus far this
year have been the Finnish, Ukrainian, Danish,
Norwegian, Italian, and Polish.

Besides these various activities intended pri-
marily to give children and adults the kind of a
good time which will develop their capacity for
further enjoyment, the Museum puts on a con—
tinuous program of movies based on historical
subjects, special recitals, lectures, design classes,
and so forth, which are of a more familiar type.
Mention should also be made of the broadcasting
program which is intended primarily to reach
those who cannot readily enjoy the Museum col—
lections and activities first hand.

The Brooklyn Museum has for many years
loaned exhibition material to various centers in
Long Island. Without dignifying these loans by
speaking of them as a system of branch museums,
the Brooklyn Museum has in fact exerted an in-
fluence in many centers remote from the Museum
and in this way reached a large number of peo-
ple. One of the valuable aspects of these loans is
that they are generally installed and supervised
not by Mtiseum staff but by local club groups.

The library at the Brooklyn Museum is par-
ticularly well equipped. Its work has grown to
such proportions that we are now doubling its
capacity both as to stacks and as to reading room.

The books in the Museum library have been pur-
chased primarily because of their relation to the
Museum collections. Whenever a visitor becomes
interested in some object he may visit the library
and there find expert guidance for pursuing that
interest“. During the recent years of unemploy-
ment large numbers of people have taken advan»
tage of this opportunity of learning about their
favorite collections. The library maintains loan
collections of slides, pictures, photographs, and
plates. One of the most valuable features of the
loan collections in the library is that of plates of
modern design. The Brooklyn Museum is the
only library or museum which lends out plates
from expensive books on modern design, textiles,
wall paper, interior decoration, costume design,
and architecture. Many of these collections cost
$50 to $100. The material which they contain is
of prime interest to hobby groups and students.
The Museum has long made a practice of dividing
these plates up and loaning them out to respon-
sible groups.

One of the features of library work which has
had most influence on community recreation has
been what might be called the planning service for
club programs. Clubs all over Long Island come
to the Museum to plan their art, ethnology, and
science programs, and the library staff helps them
in preparing lists of topics and in securing books
on the subject, and in many cases loans material
from the Museum collections.

The print department at the Museum has a
regular Sunday round table, where collectors may
listen to some authority in the field informally
discuss the.technique of their favorite type of
picture. There are three etching classes, which
have a studio for making their own prints, a
block printing group, and another in lithography.
This small printing studio is used to capacity all
through the year.

Another department which deserves mention is
that of ethnology. During the summer a group of
unemployed architects have been constructing a
notable series of models of Mayan temples, and
these have all been made to exactly the same scale.
These architects have made a careful study of the
d0cuments and photographs, measurements and
excavations which afford very accurate date for
their work, and from this material have carefully
reconstructed a series of nine temples.

506 THE LEISURE SERVICES OF JMUSEUJIS

Nature and Leisure Time
By GEORGE H. SHERWOOD

Director
American Museum of Natural History

UsEUMs, zoological parks, botanical gardens
M and similar institutions really function as
interpreters of nature and her laws.
Where can one get a better concept of the im—
mensity of the universe, of the development of all
forms of life for millions of years, and of the age
of the earth than in a museum which epitomizes
nature's work and achievements through the
ages? Or where can one become more readily
acquainted with our flowers and trees than at the
botanical gardens, or with forms and habits of
animal life than in the zoological parks or
aquaria? Here are opportunities at our very door,
to say nothing of those presented in the real out—
doors and by nature trails and trailside museums
established throughout the country. '

The greatest function of the modern museum
is to reveal and interpret the laws of nature and
truthfully and accurately represent them in its
exhibition halls and public contacts. These halls,
with their well-labeled exhibits, are great, silent
teachers using the important visual instruction
method of teaching. ,

The American Museum’s educational programs
includes not only its extensive service to the
schools, which is utilized by more than 93% of
all the schools in the city and which made con-
tacts last year of more than 29,000,000, but also
teacher training courses, expert guidance of adult
groups through the Museum halls, the lending of
special exhibits to branch libraries in the city, and
the many lectures given by the Museum directly
or in cooperation with the scientific organizations
which hold their meetings
at the Museum. I shall not

men of leisure,” familiar with the Museum and
sister institutions speak before industrial groups
and welfare organizations such as Boys’ Clubs
and Settlement Houses.

I can best make my contribution to this subject
by calling attention to a few recent experiences in
the nature field as observed in activities connected
with the American Museum of Natural History.
I would like to mention first the nature trails and
trailside museums that are springing up all over
the country, particularly in the national parks, and
I refer especially to the nature trails at Bear
Mountain, carried on under the supervision of
the American Museum of Natural History in co-
operation with Superintendent lVelch and the In-
terstate Park Commission. The almost universal
use of the automobile and the improvement in
other means of transportation is taking hundreds
of thousands of city people into the country, and
this has created within them a desire to know
more about the objects of nature which they see.
The nature trails are for their particular benefit.

A nature trail consists merely of a path through
the woods or fields along which visible but incon-
spicuous labels or markers are placed upon se—
lected specimens. As one strolls along one may
learn the name and significance of the particular
object. For the past eight years the Museum has
operated four types of trails at Bear Mountain.
namely, the Biology Trail, the Botany Trail, the
Geology Trail, and a History Trail—the last be-
cause of the Revolutionary history associated with
this area. During the past summer more than
350,000 people visited the trailside museum and
the nature trails at Bear Mountain. The small
museums along the trail are information concen-
tration points, where the story “Out-of-Doors” is
crystallized.

We have laid out indoor nature trails in the
Museum which are excellent substitutes for the

outdoor trails for those who
cannot readily go to the

make further reference to
the obvious recreational and
instructional values of the
Museum as a whole, other
than to say that it can be
greatly increased if more
extensive publicity is given
to its exhibits and services
by the press and other
agencies, and by having a
corps of workers, or “sales—

“The contemplation and observation of
Nature presents one of the most enter-
taining and profitable ways of using
lcisure time, whether this be in the real
out-of-doors or among its translations in
the museums of science, zoological
parks, botanical gardens and kindred
institutions. Nature, with its many
aspects and with its various methods of
approach, can be readily made to satisfy
pleasure instincts and to lead one on to
a further development that will give a
real objective to the use of leisure?”

country. The growing pop-
ularity of the nature trail
movement indicates this is
an important contribution
to outdoor nature educa-
tion, appreciated by both
adults and children.
Recently there has been a
rapid growth in the interest
of all classes of people in

(Continued on page 536,)

Enlarged Adult Education Opportunities

DURING the months of De- By LEWIS A. WILSON, D.Sc.

cember 1932 and Janu-

ary 1933, the New York
State Department of Educa-
tion initiated an experimental
project in the provision of
made work employment for a numer of highly
trained men and women in need of financial as-
sistance. Funds for the project were provided by
the State Temporary Relief Administration. The
original grant was large enough to employ 250
professionally trained people who were used as
teachers of unemployed men and women.

The program was successful. At the end of the
sixth week over 9,000 adults had enrolled in
classes taught by this group of unemployed pro—
fessional people. Today in New York City we
are employing 1,500 professionally trained men
and women on a made work basis and using them
as teachers, as recreational leaders and in con-
nection with a symphony orchestra and five or six
small orchestras and bands.

The program of adult education as organized
on the emergency basis included work in the field
of general cultural subjects, including languages,
music appreciation, art appreciation, sociology,
psychology, economics and other general subjects.
We organized a great many classes in the field of
finance and applied arts. These courses have been
unusually successful. Large numbers of pe0ple
have attended them because of their interest in
avocational training. The range of art work in—
cludes portrait painting, work in clay, sculpturing
and modeling, silversmithing, etching, commercial
design, scenic design and other allied subjects.

Two courses offered in the field of commercial
education have been unusually popular. Thou-
sands of unemployed adults have enrolled for
these courses, including a wide range of work in
commercial subjects, banking, finance, commer-
cial law, stenography, typewriting, speed dicta-
tion, international trade, and the use of bookkeep-
ing machines and other office appliances. We de-
veloped a rather extensive program of adult edu-
cation in the field of home—making which was
planned primarily to provide training for moth-
ers who were living on home relief. The courses

.u"

Associate Commissioner
New York State
Department of Education

planned for these women in-
cluded low cost meals, the
planning of special diets for
children, the selection of food
to meet family group needs
and also courses in the mak—
ing and alteration of clothing, the making of chil-
dren’s clothing and home nursing.

W e organized during the summer months, in
c00peration with the Board of Education, a rec-
reational program planned primarily to take care
of boys and girls of school age and to utilize the
playgrounds connected with the public schools
during the evening hours for the older groups of
young people. This program, during the summer,
reached 209,000 individuals a week with an aver-
age daily attendance of 35,000 different individ-
uals. We have organized courses in the field of
industrial and technical work and some courses
in the field of dramatics, dancing, choral singing
and a few courses in the field of instrumental
music.

The attendance in New York City upon these
classes has indicated very clearly that there is a
desire on the part of a large number of adults for
additional educational training. The enrollment
during the summer months when we had a special
six weeks’ session totaled 53,000 adults, with a
weekly attendance of 22,000 different adults. The
program at the present time has a total enroll—
ment of about 41,000 different adults with an
average daily attendance of about 20,000 adults.
The men and women who are employed as teach-
ers in connection with these centers are unusually
sympathetic with the point of view of the unem—
ployed adult. They are unemployed themselves.
They have a keen personal interest in the welfare
of the men and women who enroll in these classes.

At the present time we are paying these people
on a made work basis the sum of $15 a week for
22 hours of service. The $15 a week, however,
does not represent in any sense of the word the
service rendered by this splendid group of men
and women who are teaching in these classes.

Our experience in this emergency program leads
us to believe that, first of all, there is a need for a

(Continued on page 53?

507

Leisure Time and Libraries

By FRANKLIN F. HOPPER

Chief, Circulation Department
New York Public Library

it does not mean idleness it may be merely a

high speed use of the machine in the pursuit
of pleasure or even of culture. Many of the cur-
rent ideas of training for leisure time are con-
cerned merely with filling in of idle periods. Hav-
ing put vacant time into life, we cannot so easily
put life back in the vacancy created. This free
time is useful not only for intellectual training
for practical ends but also-—~a matter of equal if
not greater importance—for encOUragement of
reflection and the pursuit of knowledge for its
own sake. This new “living time,” as distinct
from “working time,” must be used in learning
to live more fully.

Books and reading, freely offered as they are
through the libraries, may well be salvation for
many. Education comes from life, but when life
is all work, the education is meagre. If to work
is added reading for study and self-culture, and
reading for the very joy of the thing, we may
have a full man.

Public libraries as a part of the educational
System are nearly universal in this country. In
villages and small cities, one finds half the people
regular users of libraries. In great cities like
New York not more than twenty-five per cent are
registered borrowers. Nevertheless, it is not
without significance that more than 33 million
books were lent for home use in 1932 through

the three public library systems and the public
school libraries of New York; and the New York

Public Library with its sixty branches and sub-
508

IT IS SAID a danger of the new leisure is that if

 

“We encourage people to read for
a purpose, or to read creatively, or
to read to better their income, or
to broaden their minds, .or to know
thc best that has been said in the
world, or for a dozen other equally
laudablc purposes, but we. do not
extensively advertise the fact that
reading is fun.”—Mumford Jones,
in the November issue of the Bul-

letin of the American Library
Association.

 

branches in Manhattan. The Bronx and Rich-
mond, recorded more than four million reference
workers.

There is evidence that fully a quarter of the
peOple everywhere read no books. Only a small
part of that quarter are illiterate, but public
libraries cannot.reach many of them until more
simple, easily read and understood books are writ—
ten and published. Existing books on the sciences
and social and economic questions of the time are
not comprehensible to great numbers of people'
who never get beyond the sixth or seventh grade.
We sadly need books of the type of the New
Russian Primer———simple, readable. authentic. If
a quarter of the population are practically without
reading experience, that is a challenge to the
author and the publisher.

Although there are great stretches of populous
regions of the upper Bronx, and parts of Brook—
lyn and Queens that are practically without library
service except for the meagre offerings of travel-
ling bookmobiles, nevertheless, for the great bulk

of the population of the city libraries are near at
hand.

The differences in the book needs and interests
of the varying communities of the city are amaz-
ing. The limited demand (if great need) of the
semi-rural and small village population, and the
insistent call from the sophisticated and highly

intelligent groups of certain urban sections, are
all to be met and encouraged.

The sixty libraries of the New York Public
Library system are organized as neighborhood

LEISURE TIAIE AND LIBRARIES 509

book centers to fit the special character of the
districts and to supplement for the local reader
and student the great research collection at Fifth
Avenue and Forty-second Street. A branch build-
ing on East Fifty-eighth Street contains fine col-
lections of music and drama, on the theatre and
fine arts. On the programs of the Philharmonic,
the Philadelphia and the Boston Symphony
Orchestras you will read that the scores of the
works played may be borrowed from the Fifty-
eighth Street branch library. In a library on
Staten Island, in a beautiful setting facing the
harbor, is a delightful collection on the sea. In
a branch in Negro Harlem is a valuable research
collection of Negro literature and books on the
Negro, uscd by students and investigators from
all over the country. In a library on York Avenue
in the center of the Czechoslovak population
is the best collection of Czech literature in
America. In Fordham is a reference center for
the upper Bronx and a circulating library lending
three-quarters of a million books a year. These
examples show the effort to suit the libraries to
the different communities; they must meet their
patrons on their own level, and not allow them-
selves to be railed in, to be set on too high a
pedestal.

For the man with new-found leisure, seeking
educational opportunities, the libraries afford in—
formation, direction, advice. For the man need-
ing vocational guidance, the libraries are equipped
both with books and with information about the
best places to turn to for help. The man wanting
,to read and study by himself will be helped by
the librarian with lists of books suited to his
special case, or if more expert aid is needed, he
will be referred to the Readers’ Adviser in the
Central Building. The librarian’s help, advice and
books are at the service of the man wanting to
develop a hobby, an avocation; for photography.
gardening, tennis, woodcraft, drawing, what not,
guides are available. Above all, for the man who
wants to read for the joy of it, treasures arc
waiting.

Many a man, displaced from his job, is seeking
to find himself in a new field. Enforced leisure
not infrequently affords opportunities to develop
natural bents or hobbies into productive voca-

tions. Systematic reading planned with the help ,

of librarians can take men far on the new roads.
Preparation for many a new job is proceeding
with library help.

.The city is full of people who are conscious of
serious gaps in their educational and cultural
equipment, who are coming to the libraries for
books to aid in building up their personalities.
The extent to which libraries can help the under-
privileged in making up for lost years is being
proved every day.

Long continued unemployment has caused such
a loss of morale and so decreased ability to con-
centrate in many readers, who were earnestly us—
ing the libraries, that they are finding any type of
reading beyond their present abilities. It is to be
hoped that re~employment and the new type of
leisure will quickly make it possible for them
again to read profitably.

The line between education and recreation is
happily being obliterated. The value of recrea-
tional reading as refreshment, and as giving direc-
tion into new fields, is not to be overlooked.
Choices of reading for the fun of it are many and
broad, and freely offered in every library.

In four years, the demands on the libraries of
the city have grown some twenty—five per cent. It
is sad that in the present year, at the time of our
greatest potential usefulness, the helpfulness of
the libraries has been grievously curtailed by re-
duced funds. A reduction in book appropria-
tions of seventy-seven per cent in the New York
Public Library has made it impossible to buy
needed new books, and even to keep our stock in
presentable condition. A certain loss in patronage
in the current year was inevitable. Is it not tragic
that the need created by the new leisure time can-
not be met as the public have a right to expect?
In spite of the difficulties of the' moment, the li-
brarians of the city are hopeful that ways may be
found to make for greater usefulness.

Speaking of the financial difficulties which the
depression has caused, Mr. Hopper stated that the
total budget had been cut approximately $262,000.
Roughly about $200,000 of this represented
money which would normally have been spent for
books. As a result, the library has not been able
to provide in adequate quantity the lighter read-
ing matter for which many people who want rec-
reational reading are coming to the library. There
has been an increased demand for books in the
fields of social sciences, economics and fine arts.

Leisure As An Economic Phenomenon

By GUSTAV PECK
Labor Advisory Boord

Nation al Recovery Adminstration

Washington, D. C.

ERHAPS THE MOST striking phenomenon of
Pour day is the steady and persistent increase

in the efficiency of labor and in the output of
industry. You all have seen figures which indi-
cate the phenominal increase in efficiency first
from handicraft methods to machine methods and
then during the machine era. Despite all the in-
creases in efficiency which have taken place up to
1914, the period since then has been accompanied
by such phenomenal further increases as to have
provoked the description for this period of “the
second Industrial Revolution.”

It is frequently forgotten that the gains in out-
put and efficiency in recent decades have been
made despite the steady shortening of the work-
ing day. In 1890 the typical schedule of hours
in industry was 60 or over. In 1928 it was ap~
proximately 48.

AVERAGE HOURS OF LABOR PER WEEK IN

ELEVEN INDUSTRIES, 1890-1928 (0)

Average hours Percent

per week decrease

—-—-—————-— during

1890 1928 period

Bakeries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64.7 47.4 26.7
Boot and shoe . . . . . . . . . . . ..59.5 49.1 17.5
Building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52.0 43.5 16.3
Cotton goods . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62.8 53.4 14.9
Foundry and machine shops. .598 50.4(b) 15.7
Blast furnaces . . . . . . . . . . . ..84.6 59.8(6) 29.3
Marble and stone . . . . . . . . ..54.7 44.0 19.6
Mill work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..52.0 44.8(d) 13.8
Book and job printing .....56.4 44.3 21.5
Newspaper printing . . . . . . ..48.2 45.1 6.5
Woolen goods . . . . . . . . . . . ..58.9 49.3 16.3

 

(a) Teper, Lazare, Hour: of Labor, Johns Hopkins, Studies in
History and Political ScienCes, Series L, No. 1. 1923,
p. 49

(b) 1927

(c) 1926

(d) 1924

510

“The economic forces that have sup-
ported the short-hour movement are
certain to continue, since everybody
now sees that our prohlcm is that of
managing surpluscs rather than grub-
hing a living from the soil or wearily
making things by hand. If I were

speaking in industrial terms I would
say that the industry with the great-
est future ahead of it is that one
which will provide the most adequate
and satisfying usc of leisure time.
And that is what I understand your
business to bcl”

 

It is possible that we may have sacrificed the at-
tainments of a larger output and higher incomes
for the luxury of leisure, but it is undoubted that
leisure is itself a product of economic efficiency
The result is of profound significance for our
social life, for leisure can no longer be thought of
as a class privilege but has to be conceded as a re—
quirement for normal living. The shorter work
day has made work more agreeable and pleasant;
it has probably had a favorable effect Upon health
and longevity and has been a stimulus to the ex—
pansion of many industries which serve the lei-
sure of working men and women and their fami—
lies. The leisure which modern society is able to
afford is not rest from labor but rather the occa-
sion for new forms of activity which have de-
veloped impelling systems of wants. Without
short hours of work such common utilities as
pleasure automobiles, sporting goods, beauty par-
lors, motion pictures and innumerable popular
luxuries—as well as all the industries which serve
them or depend upon them—could hardly have
existed in their present form.

Shorter Hours Justified

At different periods in our history the move-
ment for shorter hours has found justification on
different grounds. In the earlier years of indus-
trialism arguments for shorter hours were based
on the dangers to health of the long working day
and on the inability of workers to develop wider
interests and become good citizens because of

 

LEISURE AS AN ECONOMIC PHENOMENON 511

sheer lack of time and opportunity. It was at one
time quite generally believed that shortening the
long working day would decrease output. When
it was discovered that shorter hours would not
lessen productivity, that indeed they were fre-
quently accompanied by increased output, the
short-hour movement became a more positive
thing. Spokesmen for labor now argued for the
same wages with shorter hours and they rested
their case on increasing productivity. Continuing
events proved the soundness of their position.
The mounting productivity of industry, the strug-
gle for markets and their more careful explora-
tions, focused attention upon wage earners as con-
sumers. It was believed that fundamentally in-
dustry depended ultimately upon bulk sales to
millions of wage earners and that many of the
newer products were being purchased by wage
earners who had both money and time. Time, it
was clear, was as essential as money. For of what
use would a radio or an automobile or the motion
picture on the square be to a wage earner who
worked from daylight to dark? The develop-
ment was cumulative because leisure created in-
creasing opportunities for consumption.

It may be said that in the early days of indus-
trialism workers rested, but they had no leisure.
After the general acceptance of the eight hour
principle there was leisure, but the grouches said
there was not enough rest. Accompanied as the
movement was by higher incomes, it afforded the
workers an opportunity better to equip their
homes, to enjoy family life, to tinker with their
cars and radios and to go places. In the post-war
period the experience seemed to be proving itself
and the shorter work day was accepted as a nec—
essary stimulant to industry.

Thus, it appears that the long decline in the
hours of work has been clearly related to the
growth of factory industry, to mechanization, and
to the increase in the productivity of labor sup-
ported further by the social theories to which
they gave rise. There have also been adventitious
aids, like the religious support of the day of rest,
the lead furnished by professional men and ex-
ecutives in making Saturday a half-holiday, the
high cost of overtime in union trades and the fact
that the Saturday half-holiday is frequently un—
economic. In the last months of the prosperity
cycle which ended in 1929 the continuation of
these forces in the background and the subse-
quent existence of wide-spreading unemployment
were serving the substance of reality to discus-

sions of still shorter working time, particularly
of the five-day week and the six-hour day. In the
course of the depression the movement for a
shorter work week has been confused by the in—
fluence of many contradictory forces. On the one
hand there was a growing body of popular opin—
ion, particularly among organized labor, which
looked to the reduction in the work week as the
surest and swiftest device for returning the un-
employed to their jobs. Even before the depres-
sion, when it was commonly believed that the in-
troduction of machinery was contributing to the
increase of unemployment, the spokesmen of la—
bor urged the shortening of the work week as the
most effective solution of that problem. During
the four years of the depression, with the rapid
multiplication of the numbers of the unemployed.
the espousal of this proposal has become more
emphatic and more general.

Industry, on the other hand, has been motivated
by competitive considerations of cost and price.
In the first years of the calamitous decline of the
price level and the continuance of the decline for
nearly four years, employers in the highly com-
petitive industries or in the competitive areas of
partially controlled industries have attempted to
exploit all possible sources of cost reduction and
in the process have not hesitated to lengthen the
work week and to pay their operatives the same
wage for more hours of work. In consequence,
the standard work week had, by the early part of
1933, been lengthened, and even in unionized
trades, by informal agreement. At a time, there—
fore, when the lack of work and work-sharing
arrangements had greatly reduced the average
actual hours of employed labor, the standard,
normal or full-time week, the number of hours a
plant works when it is busy, had in a substantial
part of the industry, materially increased.

Then Came the NRA!

With reference to hours and the provision of
leisure, the Recovery Program made sudden and
radical departures from the slow progress in the
reduction of hours in preceding decades. To all
the foregoing arguments for shorter hours already
advanced there was added a new one of impel-
ling force with which there had been some ex-
perimentation in the preceding year, and that is
the principle of sharing work. Of course. the Re-
covery Program involves far more than the share-
the-work features, since even from this angle

( C antimwd on page 538)

WhenYou Ride a Hobby

By CHARLES J. STOREY
New York City

There are no uninteresting, no
sad, no lonesome hobbies. So
mount your hobby horse and go!

HEN YOU are riding your hobby, you are re-
creating in the true sense of the word, for

the phrase means a forgetfulness of all
else in the pleasure of the activity. One may play
golf, or fish, or go to a play, with more or less
enjoyment, but if you can really name them hob—
bies there is little doubt of their recreational
value.

Activity in a hobby means oblivion to all else.
Collecting hrst editions, building model yachts.
discussing politics or other pe0ple’s business mav
be hobbies and are therefore recuperating. It is
the one thing which has no qualifying factor———an
activity either is or is not a hobby.

The word is complete in its meaning. One can-
not have an uninteresting hobby, or a sad hobby,
or a lonesome hobby. It is an indefatigable pur—
suit of a goal in an enjoyable manner. Children
do not have hobbies. They are seldom interested
in one kind of an idea or play for a continuous
period to the exclusion of all others. R. M. Ogden
says there is no coherence among the child’s vari-
ous acts. He explains that the child’s mind is
pockety and a sudden change from one pocket to
another brings no sense of incongruity or con-
tradiction. Children have seasonal desires for dif-
ferent kinds of play. There is a top time and a
kite time, or a time for marbles or baseball. But
they seldom pursue a certain kind of play year in
and year out. They do not need much, if any,
relief from tasks, for they are not concerned in
building up an opposite interest to work, for ex-
ample, as adults do when they create a hobby
for themselves.

A Great Variety Offered

I know an executive whose hobbies are the
building of miniature boats and the collecting of

512

 

Cam-rosy lVestchcster C ounty Recreation Commission

first editions. A railroad engineer built model
yachts in his spare time when off duty and spent
his holidays in sailing them in miniature regattas
on park lakes. There was a young man around
the corner who was an amateur drummer and
who played in dance orchestras whenever he could
bribe the drummer. In New York City is a flour-
ishing art club of business men whose members
are amateur artists who sketch, paint and model
Hobbies of collecting are as numerous as the
things collected from stamps and hrst editions to
match covers.

The radio when it hrst appeared was called the
finest example of an adult toy. Never before has
a hobby had such a following. The advent of
ready-made sets cut down the number of amateur
constructors, but the hobby persists. Seven or
eight years ago nine out of ten sets were built by
the owners. There is a fascination in putting to-
gether condensers, coils and all the shining little
gadgets and getting a sound out of them. This
was a hobby which needed no clubs or boosting

I'VHEN YOU RIDE A HOBBY 513

to make it popular or to keep up interest. At
noon hours men, entranced by the numberless bits
of mechanism, stood three deep about the dis—
play windows showing radio parts. As soon as a
man reached home after a hard day’s work he
was at his radio building. The D. X. or distance
fan listened only for the name of the station, and
the operator who got the most stations with his
home-made set was the envy of his friends.
Radio, the most modern gift of magic, was and
still is a constructive hobby for adults all over the
world.

The release from the fatigue of labor found in
doing another kind of labor which we turn into
play, such as gardening, carpentry, house painting.
etc., shows how we may change work into a
hobby. The activities may often be of the same
kind and their only difference lies in what we are
thinking about them.

Hobbies Indicate True Bent

Hobbies are often the most valuable product
of our leisure time. They may indicate more
truthfully than any vocational examination what
our true bent is. Of course, in adults this infor-
mation about themselves is usually of no value
as it often comes to them too late. Only occa-
sionally does a hobby finally take the place of the
man’s or woman’s daily occupation. Vocational
experts now examine the leisure time occupa-
tions of the boy or girl for indications of what
they really do best. These recreative expressions,
especially in the young, have not as yet had the
cold seriousness of a life work fastened upon
them and are often the untrammeled and unhin-
dered expression of the young person’s or the
adult’s genius. Hobbies as part of our recreative
spirit are lightly undertaken but seriously held.
Thus they are often clearer answers to the grea":
question: “What can I do best?”

Many great inventions have been the product
of the enthusiastic mechanical hobbies of men,
who freed from their '
day’s labor, have turned
to some all absorbing in“
vention. The autograph
camera was the spare time
idea of a poor minister.
Lewis Carroll’s immortal
fame rests on his having
amused himself making up
and telling the story of

“Alice in Wonderland” to December, 1932.

“The unemployed man who occupies him-
self with some task, even though he re-
ceives no pay for it, or who cultivates a
hobby of some kind, or who takes part in
somc of thc organized recreational or edu-
cational activities in his community, is tak-
ing a long step toward keeping his mind
from rusting and his ‘personality from
growing crabbed.” George K. Pratt, M.D.,
in Mental Hygiene Bulletin, November-

a group of children. Many a man has developed
what was first a hobby into a life’s activity. And
enough has been written about the advantages of
having a passionate interest in some other activ-
ity than just business. Robert Browning, clair—
voyant and wise as many so-called impractical

poets have been, writes in “Shop”:

“Because a man has shop in mind

In time and place since flesh must live,
Needs spirit lack all life behind

All stray thoughts, fancies fugitive,
All loves except what trade can give?

“I want to know a butcher paints,

A baker rhymes for his pursuit,

A candlestick—maker much acquaints
His soul with song, or haply mute,
Blows out his brains upon the Flute."

The curse of Adam may still be on labor, but
hobbies have been regarded as too Unimportant
to put any curse on. Who can say what this re*
lease in spirit is which gives the amateur painter
or gardener such forgetfulness of the workadav
world? The stamp collector, the man fingering
and admiring his latest antique, the builder of his
own radio, is in a different atmosphere from his
work hours as though he had been transported to
another planet. Connoisseurs may know and ad-
mire the arts but an amateur painter, though he
paint ever so badly, gets a thrill from his art that
no amount of culture unacquainted with palette
and brush will ever give. Knowledge of con-
struction gained by doing, whether it is a stool or
a house that is built, makes every other stool or
house more interesting. If our appreciation of the
plastic arts or of gardening, for example, is only
from observation and not from working at them
or in them for fun, then we are, from the cul-
tural standpoint, merely sitting in the bleachers.

The Values of Hobbies

Hobbies have never been given the attention
which they should have. Looked on as a by—pro-
duct of men’s lives and often labeled with the ter-
rible label of “pastime”
(passing the time). they
have been relegated to a
very secondary p l a C e .
They have been part of
the supposedly unproduc-
tive leisure time of pe0ple.
We are beginning to see
now that hobbies are often
as important to a man or
woman as his work. Many

514 ' WHEN YOU RIDE A HOBBY

a man has found his hobby a means of relaxa-
tion in time of mental and physical stress in his
daily occupation.

The man who has a hobby has provided himself
with entertainment for a rainy day. It is like
putting money in a bank. He has saved up an
interest for times of disability and often old age.
It is one thing that a man never retires from. He
might have to give up his business or he might
wish to give up his business, but he will never
wish to give up his hobby as long as he has
strength to occupy himself in it.

He will occupy himself with his hobby in times
of boredom or even disaster when all other in-
terests are dead. I have
always thought that if
Nero actually fiddled
while Rome burned, it
was because fiddling was
his insatiable hobby to
which he turned with
philosophical calm in the
midst of an unavoidable
calamity.

The amateur gardener,
the collector, the ama-
teur mechanic, the man
who writes for fun, or
the man who paints for
fun, has a reserve for-
tune which is worth
more than gold.

The hobby or a power-
ful, constructive or crea—
tive interest outside of
our daily occupation, is
the serious and import-
ant part of our recrea-
tive life. It is one of the
tangible evidences of a
right recreative program
in our lives. This is a
very solemn way of say—
ing that if a good time
was had by all, each.
would have some fun
left over forwa rainy day
of life when the sup—
posedly all important life
work may cease to be so
lively looking.

People should have a
more alluring occupation

 

Photo by Wallace Hutchinson
Courtesy U. 5. Forest Service

in old age than sitting on Florida hotel porches
and listening to the hardening of their arteries.
Homes for the aged are full of idle people not
because the inmates are decrepit but because they
have no hobbies. To labor long and earnestly is
not enough—~we must recreate just as earnestly.
And a hobby has not only an immediate satis—
faction; it has also a future reward—a recreative
“hang—over” which is of great value. It is a mat—
ter of the imagination and of knowing what to
do. Some are bored when not at work and seem-
ingly cease to celebrate in their hours of ease as
did one college boy who came home to his father’s
farm for over Saturday and Sunday. Not find-
ing any of his usual rec—
reations at hand, he com-
plained to his father that
he really did not know
what he could do with
his “ week-end.” “Put
your hat on it, son, put
your hat on it,” his
father replied. That is
what is the matter with
a good many of us after
a day’s round of some
uninteresting work. We
spend all our brains on
our work and none on
our leisure. Being bored
at any time, either in
youth or old age, is trace-
able to the lack of re—
sourcefulness in enter—
taining oneself. A hobbv
is as good and better
than a continual picture
show. And what more

can be said of it in these
cinema days?

A Form of Insurance

Hobbies, like 0 t h e r

forms of recreation.
must be acquired. If

(Continued on page 539)

Hiking and mountain climb-
ing-hobbies of the great-
est recreational value to
manywho love outdoor life.

An Old Art

Serves

a
New Age

that the oldest of the

arts, that of potterv
making, should play a
vital party in one of the
newest of programs——
planned leisure. Yet
this is readily under»
stood when the power
of the creative instinct,
the love of beauty and
the grace of service are taken into account.

It was not by mere chance that seven years ago
the Paul Revere Pottery, of Boston, Massachu-
setts, recognized the recreational possibilities of
adding an educational feature to its studio work
which then covered a wide field. The dividends
that resulted to the school. even from the start,
were sizeable. In frequency and proportion there
has been a steady increase. That these bulk large
in mental rather than monetary value adds to the
satisfaction of the shareholder.

IT IS A significant fact

The Paul Revere Pottery is situated among
hilltop gardens, less than half an hour’s ride from
the centre of Boston. As far as is known its
School of Ceramic Art is the only school in the
United States where classes in pottery making
are held in connection with the established busi
ness itself. Here are taught both hand—built and
wheel—thrown pottery. Other stages in the course
are the Early Egyptian, the Greek, the Chinese.
the Persian, and lastly the Modern.

It is a truism that given opportunity the crea—
tive instinct of an individual brings freedom of
spirit. It brings also delight to the creator. A
visitor to the school would see tangible evidence
of this in the pardonable pride and pleasure
which pupils, both adults and children, take in

 

By
IRENE ARMSTRONG

Boston, Massachusetts

their handiwork. To il-
lustrate: A young
mother, who has spent
several w e e k s ’ class
time in making tiles f or
her child’s nu r sery.
awaits the unpacking of
the kiln. As the ware
comes forth from the
white-heated furnace,
the kiln packer sees
them only as gay and artistic panels. But to the
mother who fashioned them they are something
far more than pretty tiles for a nursery fireplace
—-——into their making has gone something real of
herself. Another woman’s interest is also for
others. To her Christmas means the sharing of
home-made gifts. Last year she bestowed upon

. thirty—five delighted friends pottery jars filled

with honey from her own hives. The small jars
varied in color and design and each carried out
the preference of its new possessors. A man.
who works at night at the city desk of a morning
newspaper, is one of an afternoon class at the
school where friendly rivalry in carrying out in-
dividual fancy runs high. His particular hobby
is pitchers—large and small, high and low, slen-
der and squatty; some with designs, some plain,
others with monograms, but all showing the care—
ful, even affectionate touch of the artist.

And the harvest of the leisure hours of these
men and women is a rich one, both in past and
future enjoyment; it is lovely to look upon, and
the list of products of even one season’s classes
is a long one. It would be sure to contain an
orange and black supper set for a bachelor’s
camp; a large garden pool base and fountain;
lamps of many a type; candlesticks. vases, and an

515

516 AN OLD ART SERVES A NEIV AGE

assortment of figurenes that would satisfy the
most ardent collector of this fascinating orna-
ment. There would be desk—sets, book-ends, boxes
of every conceivable shape and pattern. And
there would be an array of imaginative animals
that doubtless were inspired by W'innie-the-Pooh,
but which certainly out-Noahs the original Noah’s
ark!

Personal inclination and individual expression
by members of the classes are given free play.
although in initial stages the work is always su-
pervised by an instructor. This balanced method
of instruction (natural cooperation of.pupil and
teacher) combined with the stimulus of 'compan:
ionable competition, makes an inviting atmos
phere for the pupil’s development. The discipline
is an unconscious lever, yet it- is sufficient to pre-
vent bad taste in the fashioning of the ware.
True, there is an infinite variety in results, as'in
concept, but the guiding influence on the begin-
ners’ adventures prevents any unfortunate result.

The educational phase, as distinguished from
the recreational, has much to its credit. The
school has sent forth men and women to be in—
structors in schoolroom and at camps. Pupils
have become so proficient in conception and exe»
cution that the selling of their handiwork has
meant a gratifying profit. And of outstanding
satisfaction to the school is the fact that in not a
few instances this
work has proved to
be a splendid med-
ium for those who
are handicapped.
Not only has what at
first was timid appli-
cation developed into
absorbed desire to
fashion a better
thing, but b e t t e r
health has come to
them, as well as op-
portunity for finan-
cial return w l] er e
formerly there had
been a hopeless in-
capacity.

In November the
Paul Revere Pottery
celebrated its twenty-
fifth anniversary. It
was established by
Mrs. James J. Stor—

row of Boston to provide a group of girls with
some means of earning money to carry on their
education. She remodeled for this purpose a
house on Hull Street in the shadow of the Old
North Church-—hence the name Paul Revere.
Edith Brown, a graduate of the Boston Art
Museum School and a student of Bela Pratt,
directed the girls who came to learn how to make
bowls, then their only output. The handicraft
became more and more successful, until the
limited-quarters were outgrown and Mrs. Storrow
built a group of buildings on Nottinghill. Under
Miss Brown’s direction the project progressed
until within-Ia few years from its first expansion
the Paul Revere Pottery was acknowledged to be
a real credit to American handicraft, and was
sold all over the United States, in Great Britain,

-Eur0pe, Asia, Africa and Australia. One of the

most popular designs which Miss Brown evolved
in the early days and one that still remains a
prime favorite. is the bread-and-milk sets for
children. Betty—Her ding, Junior—His Plate.
and Norton's Boar! continue to delight children
(and, be it said, even grown-up children as well)
who exclaim when seeing their own name on

(Continued on page 539)

The expression of the creative‘instinct brings
freedom of spirit and delight to the creotor.

 

Challenge

of the
New Leisure

 

Courtesy of the New York City Story League

HE AMERICAN nation, which has deified work
T and looked with suspicion upon leisure for

the masses, has in its search for economic
recovery suddenly faced about and granted the
boon of greater leisure to its toiling millions
Almost overnight the dreams of working men and
women for shorter hours of labor have been
turned into reality. Even the most optimistic a
year ago would hardly have dared to predict such
rapid and wholesale steps in the direction of ex-
panding leisure. Through the administration of
the National Recovery Act the forty-hour week
has come into vogue on an unprecedented scale,
thus multiplying enormously the free time of the
rank and file of the gainfully employed.

Increase in Free Time

A slight computation makes clear the amount
of time at the disposal of the worker employed on
a forty-hour-week schedule. Allowing twelve
hours a day for sleep, eating, travel to and from
work and other necessities, the time remaining
for the cultivation of his own interests is more
than five hours a day for six days of the week
with Sunday thrown in as an additional full day
of leisure. 'Or if his forty hours are completed
within five days, he has two full days of leisure
besides four hours of free time on each of his
working days. According to similar computation,
the man who formerly was compelled to work
twelve hours a day had no
free time except on Sun-

By JESSE F. STEINER

eration and already has attained sufficient propor-
tions to carry with it extraordinary possibilities
for good or for ill. After ample allowance is
made for time consumed in travel to and from
work, the present-day workman has more hours
of leisure than he spends in his regular em—
ployment.

This new leisure is by no means an entirely
new development; it has been coming in cumu-
lative fashion during the past 100 years. In the
early part of the nineteenth century, when even
children were working in English mills sixteen
or eighteen hours a day and when a twelve-hour
day was regarded as a matter of course, leisure
for the mass of the working people was nothing
more than an illusive dream. But, with the ad4
vance of the machine age, hours of labor began
to decrease. The twelve-hour “day became less
common, and finally in 1923 it was routed from
the steel industry, its last great stronghold.

Strikes for a ten and a nine hour day were
features of the closing quarter of the last cen-
tury, and the eight-hour day became a goal that
seemed possible of attainment. Long before the
depression the eight-hour day had been estab-
lished in a large number of industries and many
groups of workers were
enjoying the benefits of an

day, and one working ten
hours had only two hours
of free time each work—
ing day.

The new leisure of the
workingman s t a n d s in
striking contrast with the
meager amount at his dis—
posal during the past gen-

Thc National Recovery Act with its code
of reduced working hours, is focusing the
attention of the nation on the problem of
the use of leisure. The subject is consid-
ered in this article by Dr. Steiner, Pro-
fcssor of Sociology, University of Wash-
ington, who made a study of trends in
recreation for thc President’s Committec
on Social Trcnds. It is reprinted here
through the courtesy of The New York
Times and of, the author.

even m o r e abbreviated
time schedule. The forty-
hour week, to which so
much publicity has been
given recently, is not a
new departure, but its
sudden application to so
many lines of work and
the remarkable manner in

.517

518 CHALLENGE OF THE NEW LEISURE

which it is being accepted
as a way out of our pre»
sent economic dichulties
have caught the imagina—
tion of the American peo-
ple and given new mean-
ing to the long and dra-
matic struggle for a larger
amount of leisure.

Our new leiSUre has without doubt come to
stay. The shorter work-day and the shorter work-
week must be reckoned with as permanent facts.
The busy bee that toils early and late so that it
may not come to want is no longer an appropriate
symbol for our modern industrial world. We are
entering upon a period when we will not point
with pride to achievements made possible by un-
remitting toil. Our emphasis upon the beneficence
of labor now includes also provision for adequate
leisure. The old idea that the devil finds work
for idle hands to do expresses a suspicion of
leisure out of touch with our new thOUght and
practice. The American ideal is to do our work
expeditiously so that plenty of spare time may
remain for the cultivation of oUr leisure-time
interests.

September, 1933.

Problems Involved

While this onward march of leisure is most
gratifying, it brings in its train problems that are
not easy of solution. The exploitation of leisure
time has always been a profitable financial ven-
ture for those interests that cater to human weak-
ness and promote habits that tend to degrade
rather than build up. Liquor, prostitution and
gambling have long been favorite devices of those
who seek profit through the commercialization of
leisure. It is not without significance that the ex-
tension of leisure and leaglized liquor are enter—
ing upon the stage of American life at the same
time. One of the problems we face is the role
hard drinks will play in the leisure—time activities
of the pe0ple.

Prior to the World War the purveyors of
liquor were the most successful exploiters of the
surplus time and money of the rank and file of
our workers. The saloon was popularly known
as the workingmen’s club and behind its swing—
ing doors and glazed windows were found stimu-
lation for jaded nerves, social intercourse with
congenial friends, and forgetfulness of the toil
necessary in the struggle for existence. But even
in those days the evils of this way of spending

“Today, because there is not work enough
to go around, we are forced to look for
new virtues. We are learning the value of
life. It does not lie in abasing the flesh but
cxalting the mind and releasing the spirit.
Work cannot be the end of life, and keep—
ing alive is not the end.”—From the

Junior-Senior High School Clearing House,

leisure were plainly ap—
parent. The saloon as a
resort for disorderly peo-
ple and its corrupting in-
fluence upon civic enter-
prises overbalanced its
contribution as a needed
social centre and wa s
abolished as a festering
sore in American urban life.

Through the apparently certain repeal of the
Eighteenth Amendment America will again
squarely face the problem of liquor control in the
interests of law and order. The larger role of
automatic machinery that requires skillful han-
dling, the streets congested with automobiles with
their constant menace to human life, the grow-
ing amount of leisure to be spent either con-
structively or destructively, are among the new
conditions which make extremely unwise any
widespread eXploitation of the desire for liquor
in the interests of financial profit.

It is unthinkable that the pre—Volstead pattern
of dispensing liquor will be followed, for the
present situation makes intolerable a system of
competitive drinking places constantly striving to
increase their trade. Americans under the new
regime are to have full freedom to drink or to
refrain from drinking, but commercial efforts to
develop a nation of drinkers cannot be permitted.
The old custom of spending leisure, drinking with
a party of friends in a cafe will doubtless remain ;
but public interest demands that it should not be-
come a dominant feature of our modern recrea-
tional world.

Undesirable Amusements

Along with the problem of liquor control, there
must be faced also the necessity of dealing more
effectively with those border-line forms of de-
moralizing entertainment securely entrenched in
the amusement centres of our cities and defying
all efforts to curb their activities. There 'has been
no lack of ordinances designed to deal with this
situation, but the widespread break-down of local
government in its attempted sUppression of gam—
ing devices and of resorts that foster vice is a
matter of common knowledge. The continuance
of such leisure-time activities is possible not
merely because of the break-down of law-enforce-
ment agencies. They are also condoned by the
public as a necessary evil and we are satisfied if
they stay sufficiently under cover so as not to

CHALLENGE OF THE NEHV LEISURE 519

offend decency or give the city an unpleasant
notoriety.

To hold to such a public policy toward de—
moralizing pleasures in a period of greatly ex-
panding leisure is to tread on dangerous ground.
We may be sure that the promoters of disrepu-
table amusements will be most aggressive in tak—
ing advantage of this opportunity to enlarge their
constituency. Activities that degrade personality.
lower the moral tone of the com-
munity and destroy bodily health
and vigor cannot be entirely
abolished, but they can be pre—
vented from excessive growth. If
the traditional policy of laissez
faire in this realm of commer~
cial amusement cannot be re-
placed by adequate safeguards of
public morals, the new leisure
may be a loss rather than a gain
to modern civilization.

Perhaps this aspect of our lei-
sure-time problem can be dealt
with more satisfactorily by the
promotion of wider recreational
opportunities than by more dras—
tic governmental control. The
indirect attack upon undesirable
amusements by creating interest
in more wholesome forms of rec-
reation seems in the long run to
be the wisest course to follow.
Fortunately, during the past few
decades great headway has been
made in building up a far-reach—
ing system of public recreation,
in which emphasis has been Upon
active sports and games. A gen—
eration that has been habituated
to long and exhausting toil may
eagerly turn to stimulants and
idle pleasures, but in this era of
greater leisure the more strenu-
ous activities of the playing field
will gain in popular favor.

Public Recreation Facilities
Must Increase

Our great danger is that pro—
per facilities for wholesome pub-
lic recreation will be insufficient
to meet the strain that will be
placed upon them. Each year has

 

seen a greater crowding of our public parks, play-
ing fields, golf courses, tennis courts and munici-
pal beaches. The rapid advance made in extend-
ing these facilities has by no means kept pace
with the crowds that throng them throughout the
Summer season. It is conservatively estimated

With the increased leisure will come increased
need for the provision of parks and open spaces.

Camrtesy Wilmington, Delaware, Park Department

520 CHALLENGE OF THE NEW LEISURE

that our munici-
pal park acreage
should be im-
mediately doubl—
ed in order to
meet the require-
ments of our ur-
ban population.
T h e additional
hours of free time that are now becoming avail-
able to many thousands of people will greatly
increase congestion in these public places and
force many to seek diversion in less desirable
ways. It is unfortunate that this enlarged need
for public recreation comes at altime when local
governments are so nearly bankrupt and when
the universal demand for lower taxes makes it
impracticable to build more spacious recreational
facilities.

In the promotion of our extensive public works
program as a means of relieving unemployment
consideration should be given to the financing of
suitably planned projects in the field of public
recreation. Certainly many cities have greater
need for field houses in their public parks than
for new postof‘lices, and would profit more by
properly constructed playing fields than by ex-
tending their system of paved highways. In the
meantime much could be accomplished in the way
of building up the morale of the people in this
trying time by organizing a national program of
public recreation following somewhat the pattern
set during war days under the direction of the
\Var Camp Community Service.

A strategic move of lasting benefit to the nation
would be the expansion of the functions of the
National Recovery Administration to include re—
sponsibility for guiding the people in the use of
their new leisure. Such Federal recognition of
the importance of this emergent problem would
stimulate local communities to develop more ade-
quately their recreational resources and would
push forward by years the movement for public

recreation.

As laissez-faire retires from
the field of industry, it must
also disappear from the
world of leisure. It is un-
thinkable that we shall go
to the opposite extreme and
build up a standardized
scheme of recreation all
must follow.

Winter Recreation

Under pressure of the needs growing out of
our expanding leisure, the present inadequacies of
our public leisure-time programs are becoming
much more evident. Traditionally Summer has
been the season of play, and the provision of pub-
lic recreational facilities has in a large measure
been limited to outdoor equipment suitable for

use only during the warm months. During the
early Stages of development of public recreation,
when provision of such facilities was looked upon
as a new and somewhat unwarranted extrava-
gance. there was no widespread demand for a
well-rounded recreational program covering all
the seasons.

To a limited extent field houses and gymnasi-
uins were constructed and park systems in certain
cities made arrangements for outdoor Winter
sports, but it was well known that only a small
fraction of the people could be accommodated in
this way. It was generally assumed that public
recreation would occupy the stage during the
Summer months and that commercial amuse-
ments would provide the needed diversions dur-
ing the remainder of the year. \Vith the growing
popularity of outdoor games and sports there has
been a greater insistence upon the lengthening of
the playing season by providing facilities for
sports through the “’inter months.

The more progressive recreation departments
of cities in the snow belt construct toboggan slides
and chutes, close to traffic streets suitable for
coasting, build high trestles for ski jumps and
flood level areas for ice skating and hockey rinks.

 

Courtesy Board of Park Commissioners, Ft. Wayne, Ind.

I'l-

 

CHALLENGE OF THE NEW LEISURE 521

'In sections of the country where the Winter
weather is less severe, tennis is made possible
through the construction of concrete courts, golf
is played on Winter greens, basketball courts are
provided out of doors and vigorous games like
football and soccer continue throughout most of
the cold season.

The need for suitable indoor recreation during
inclement weather is rapidly becoming more ap-
parent as people have more time and energy for
play. A much-needed advance will be the con-
struction of more fleld houses in public parks and
the opening of public school gymnasiums and
swimming pools and auditoriums for the general
use of the people after school hours. The move-
ment to make such use of our school plants, which
has long been retarded by official Opposition and
by half-hearted public support, will doubtless re-
ceive new impetus from the eager search for suit—
able leisure—time activities by increasing numbers
of people.

State and National Parks

Nothing has been more remarkable in Ameri-

can recreation than the new interest in travel to

The provision of recreation for winter as
well as summer is a city's responsibility.

 

But freedom to follow our
f rec-time interests implies a
wider range of facilities
than the average individual
is able to supply. Social
planning and social control
must-go hand in hand as we

build up the world of the
future.

remote places for
the enjoyment
of outdoor di-
versions. The re-
cent widespread
use of our state
and national
parks land for-
ests ushers in a
new era of outdoor recreation. Automobile tour—
ing has become one of our major sports, easily
ranking first in financial expenditures. Every
week—end when the weather permits there is an
exodus of city people to adjacent resorts and
camping places where mountain-climbing, boat-
ing, swimming, fishing, hunting and similar diver
sions are available. So extraordinary has been the
interest in this type of recreation that the con—
gestion of the city is too often merely exchanged
for the congestion of the lake shore or the moun-
tain side.

\Vith the coming of longer week-ends for
larger numbers of people the present extent of
Open country parks is entirely inadequate. The
new appreciation of the recreational value of our
waterways and mountains and rough lands un—
suitable for permanent habitation makes neces-
sary the acquirement for public use of more ex-
tensive open spaces. Of great significance is the
extended soil survey initiated by the State of
New York for the purpose of restoring submar—
ginal agricultural land to its former wild condi
tion and preserving it permanently as a part of
the State park and forest system. Such a policy
inaugurated by all the States would go far to-
ward solving the troublesome farm problem and
would at the same time lay the foundation for an

outdoor recreational system adequate for all our
future needs.

Educational Possibilities

\«Vhile the new leisure will be valued primarily
because of the added Opportunities for various
kinds of diversions and amusements, we must not
overlook the possibilities of using it also for edu.
cational purposes. The adult education movement-
in its efforts to teach English to immigrants, to
remove the stigma of adult illiteracy, and to en-
able the unskilled to learn useful trades, has
always been handicapped by the fact that those
who most needed this type of education had the
least leisure to devote to it. Now with the coming
of shorter hours of work even to the lowest grades

522 CHALLENGE OF THE NEW LEISURE

of employes, this old obstacle to adult education
disappears and the time,is ripe for progress in
this direction.

This constructive use of leisure is furthered
by the great increase in labor-saving machinery
which lightens toil so that the workers are not
worn out at the close of their hours of employ-
ment. It is of great significance that workers now
have more energy as well as time for uses of
their own choosing. Leisure need no longer be
merely a period for regaining strength for an-
other day’s work, but can be readily devoted to
activities that will increase capacity and skill.

We are to such a large degree unprepared to
face the problems of
greater leisure because
the present generation
has had so little train-
ing in its proper use.
The demands of indus-
try have been placed
first in our scale of
values. The schools of
classic tradition h a v e
been replaced by insti-
tutions designed to
train workers for jobs.
Vocational education
has taken the lead and
we judge the effective-
ness of our schools by
the facility with which
th e i r graduates find ..
employment in the eco—
nomic world.

Any suggestion that our schools place training
for hobbies on an equality with training for vo-
cations does not meet with p0pular favor. We
are impatient of the so-called frills of education
which seek to broaden life and provide means for
its enrichment. The National Education Associa-
tion has called attention to the need for training
for the wise use of leisure, but its public pro-
nouncement has not yet brought about any ex-
tended change of policy in our public school
system.

Very few of our public schools possess either
the equipment or the personnel adequate for such
a purpose. School grounds are too small for the
playing of appropriate games, budgets make no
proper provision for play supervisors, the cur-
riculum is not built up with the needs of leisure-
time instruction in mind, and when attempts are

 

There will be a demand in the future for
more game facilities and playing fields.

made to correct the situation the public sharply
criticizes this emphasis upon non—essentials.

Social Planning Imperative

The prodigal wasting of so much of our leisure
in ill-advised ways is largely a result of our fail-
ure to develop a wide variety of interest. A gen-
eration that appreciates good books and has cul-
tivated a taste for reading; that has sufficient
training in music to be able to sing and play some
musical instrument; that has a love for outdoor
life and an appreciation of the beauties of nature;
that has built up hobbies in different fields of
activity such as gardening, mechanical arts, paint-
ing, architecture, col-
lecting and the rest;
that has early acquired
skill in sports and
games which can be en-
joyed throughout adult
years, and that has de-
veloped ease and fa-
cility in social relation-
ships through wise
direction in childhood
and youth, will not be
swept off its feet by the
appeal of amusements
of a low order. One of
our important problems
is the reorganization of
our schools so that they
may better prepare for
leisure.

Since the culture of the past has in very con-
siderable degree been a product of those who had
leisure to think and work out their own ideas, we
wonder whether this wider extension of leisure
will result in an extraordinary step forward in
our cultural development.

With leisure becoming the recognized birth-
right of all conditions and classes of pe0ple, we
can no longer afford to regard with indifference
the nature of their pursuits. Our hit-and-miss
methods of providing for the use of spare time
are becoming more and more unsatisfactory. As
laissez-faire retires from the field of industry, it
must also disappear from the world of leisure. It
is unthinkable that we shall go to the opposite
extreme and build up a standardized scheme of
recreation which all must follow. Regimentation
in the field of leisure would run counter to its

(Continued on page 539)

Problems of the Adolescent

HE EMOTIONAL needs that

motivate the behavior of

adolescents are similar to
those which motivate children
and adults. The only differences between them
and the other groups are biological and physical.
The behavior pattern is the result of the effort
the individual makes to adjust his biological
equipment (general physical health and intelli-
gence) to his environment, in an attempt to satisfy
two fundamental human needs: I, the ego need
(to put oneself across) and 2, the libidinal need
(the necessity for feeling that somewhere each
person is loved). The psychologist tries to dis-
cover how these needs are being satisfied.

During adolescence the whole endocrine system
is in upheaval as a result of which there is usually
a more emotional reaction to situations. Environ—
mentally boys and girls of this age do not know
where they belong, whether with the children or
the adults. In addition to this, their parents fre-
quently do not know whether or not they want
them to remain children. Furthermore, adoles-
cents are frustrated by a social order which does
not seem to need them. Many are ready for jobs,
but there are no jobs for them. This forces them
to revert to the childhood pattern, as it makes
them economically dependent upon the family
It might be helpful to give these people the feel—
ing that the community really needs them. An
added difficulty is the fact that parents make
decisions regarding their children’s choice of
vocation.

The public schools contribute difficulties on the
ego side to frustrate adolescents by setting up an
atmosphere of cutthroat proficiency similar to
that of industry, when they
have children working for
marks rather than interests
They then go out and value
jobs in terms of wages rather
than looking for opportuni~
ties that are creative and
challenging to their person-
alities.

The social status of the
adolescent is difficult to de-

derstanding.

By CAROLINE B. ZACHRY
New School for Social Research

These are days when the adolescent
desperately needs sympathy and un-
Some of, the things
adults should know in order to give
effective help to youth in its prob-
lems were discussed at the Hudson
Guild Conference held on September
22nd and 23rd. Light is thrown on
the subject by Dr. Zachry’s address,

presented here, and in the paper by
Dr. Thayer which follows.

fine as he usually becomes very
much attached to an individual
for whom he cares so much
that he always feels inferior, or
becomes too dependent on this person or upon his
family and remains infantile. Those young peo-
ple who seem most sure of themselves are usually
most uncertain of themselves and their decisions.
Even though we, as adults, do not feel certain
about making decisions, we should feel free to
discuss things with them frankly. In order to
give the adolescent a sense of security in the
future, he should be thrown in with adults who
can face change.

Every community should use its young pe0ple
in activities which have intrinsic value. They
should be shown the reason for the activity and
made to feel they want to carry it on because
they love it, whether or not there may be an ex-
trinsic reward. They should then be helped to make
adjustments in mature situations and to value
normal contacts with other human beings; to be
able to face frankly the changes in sex behavior
and sex ethics that seem to be taking place. Their
activities should be carried on in groups of boys
and girls, with as little segregation of the sexes
as possible.

It is frequently helpful to treat these troubles
by making home studies. In other instances, when
the symptoms are recognizable frdm former ex-
periences, they can be treated merely for these
things. Introspective pe0ple should be given ac-
tivities along creative lines. The process should
be gradual so that the person’s confidence can be
gained. Destructive people should be given con-
structive work. The “show-off” should be given
attention and legitimate com-
mendation. To do this pro-
perly, the home conditions
of the individual must be
known.

, “I am convinced from the pa-
rade that has passed before me
that the solution of crime lies in
finding wholesome activity for
the leisure hours of adolescents.”

——Judge A. J. Murphy.
523

Educational Opportunities

of the
Adolescent

By V. T. THAYER

Ethical Culture School
New York City

HE ADOLESCENT of today was born during the
T period of 1914-20, a time of wholesale

slaughter in an attempt to provide harmony
through self-expression and self—determination.
Out of this there developed a social idealism
which became dissipated into extravagance, specu-
lation, cynicism and political corruption. Because
of these conditions, the adolescent merits sym-
pathy, understanding and patience. Education has
not been very much concerned with him. It has
been playing safe by being scientific and stressing
scrutiny of the curriculum and behavioristic psy-
chology. Afraid of the social implications of
teaching, the “hands off” policy has been de-
veloped. At the same time there has developed an
organic conception of child nature, together with
a realization that children cannot be molded like
putty.

What the child becomes depends upon the de-
velopment of his interests, of the situations in
which he finds himself, and of what he manu-
factures out of his environment. Leadership,
then, is not the imposing of the adult’s will on the
child but is a matter of so identifying oneself with
the people with whom one is associated that one
senses their interests and desires and gives direc-
tion. They then move along of their own accord,
in better ways. This is the organic conception of
education. I

In order to approach the subject properly, we
must consider all the influences playing upon the
individual. The demand to make good economi-
cally impinges upon the adolescent all the time, yet
to have him grow up healthy we have had to take
him out of the economic process. As a result, this

524

 

“What we shall do with our leisure
time and how we can prepare our
people to capitalize it is, in my
humble opinion, the greatest ques-
tion before America today. How
we will use our. leisure in the
future will be a much more im-
portant question to society than
how we work. Our leisure will ex-
press the real ideals, personal and
social habits of the nation.” Mar-
vin. S. Pittman, Pll.D., in The
Journal of Health and Physical

Education.

 

thing which is so important is really a remote pro-
cess to him. .He does not see the relationship be-
tween the things which are important to him and
the world of adults, and this develops in him a
sense of insecurity.

The second thing operating toward failure in
the life of the young is the lack of abiding rela-
tionships with adults who are master craftsmen
Consequently their interests always remain super-
ficial. In addition, there is a lack of old—time
neighborliness and giving of service, and a con-
fusion of standards from the earliest years of
their life. Antagonism and conflict are sure to
develop from this.

These very things are educational opportuni-
ties because they must be dealt with construc-
tively. The basis for the possibilities of the ado-
lescent is laid when he first comes into contact
with the school. The school must help the par
ent to see the common things in which parents
and children can engage. Therefore arts and
crafts must be moved from the school into the
home. In former years children got an insight
into parent activities by engaging in handicrafts
so that by the time the child reached adolescence
he had certain interests which he considered im-
portant. These are the things which the school
and settlement must take hold of when helping
the child to establish his interest. If the oppor-
tunities to use the child’s interests are found, he
will expand and develop.

The child must. sense the connection between
his interests and the things adults consider im-
portant. Hobby classes may be used as a means

(Continued on page 540)

February Party Suggestions

As February speeds gany by, seize the
festive opportunities it has to offer!

i

0 MONTH in the entire year offers such de-
N lightful possibilities for parties as does
February, the shortest month, in which oc-

cur two patriotic holidays and the day devoted to
the memory of St“. Valentine, that serious minded
Roman priest martyred in the third century, who
would undoubtedly look with amazement upon the
f rivolities which have come to be associated with

his name!

Games for a Valentine Party

Love Is Blind. The boys and girls sit opposite
each other some distance apart. The first man is
blindfolded. The leader brings a girl from the
opposite side to shake hands with the “blind
man.” He is requested to say: “How do you do i‘"
and the girl is told to reply but is privileged to dis—
guise her voice. If the man fails to guess cor-
rectly, he must pay a forfeit but if he guesses
correctly, the girl is blindfolded and a man is
ushered up to shake hands with her and the game
is continued.

Hearts Up. The girls and men sit alternater
about a long table, the group being divided into
two teams; one team sits on one side of the table
and the other group on the other side. Each
player is given six beans for counters. A small
cardboard heart is given one of the teams. All
players on the team which was given the heart
put their hands underneath the table while the
captain or leader gives the heart to one of the
players on his team. “Hearts
up” is called by the leader of
the other side. All players
on the playing side hold up
their doubled fists until the
leader of the opposing side
calls “Hearts down.” The
hands are then placed palms -
down on the table. The op-
ponents try to guess who has
the heart. The first person
at one end of the table has

“Perhaps Valentine‘s Day, more than
any other holiday rctains the spirit
of the original rites and festivals.
Hang up your cardboard hearts and
festoon your colored crepe paper!
Pan hides beneath each gay trifle and
Juno smiles on thc party! The shades
of those Roman youths and maidens
linger about, warming themselves at
your feast, while good St. Valentine,
no doubt, looks on with consterna-
tion and embarrassment.”

the first guess. If he fails he gives a counter to
the leader of the opposing side. Then the next
person tries his luck. The guessing continues
until the heart is found. each losing player for—-
feiting a counter. The heart is_then handed to
the opposite side and the game continues. The
side gaining all the counters wins.

Unlock the Heart. A large red cambric heart
with an imitation keyhole drawn on it is hung
against the wall. Gold pasteboard keys are made
and distributed to the guests, who blindfolded take
turns in trying to find the keyhole. The person
who comes nearest unlocking the heart receives a
little award, possibly a little jewel box with a
tiny key to lock it.

Trampled Hearts. Players are divided into
groups and are in file formation. Two large card-
board hearts are given the first person in each
file. On the signal to start, No. I places one of
the hearts on the floor, holding on to it by the end.

_Ile then steps on it with one foot keeping the

other on the starting line. Then he places the sec-
ond heart on the floor in front and on the side of
the first heart so that he is able to take a step. He
then takes his foot from the starting line and
places it on the second heart. Now he lifts his
foot and heart and places it in front and to the
side of the second and takes another step. Each
time he must step on the heart and not on the
floor. If he steps on the floor he must start from
the beginning. As soon as he has gotten to the
finish mark which is about
hfteen feet from the starting
line, he picks up both hearts,
runs back, gives the hearts to
Number 2 who goes through
the same process and then
goes to the end of the line.
This continues until all play-
ers are back to their original
positions.

Funny Face. Select one of
the large funny penny valen-

(Comimwd on page 541)
525

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP
National Recreation Association

BRIEF ARTICLE on theatre make-up is a brave.
A perhaps even foolhardy, undertaking. The
subject is so vast, there are so many millions
of faces that may appear upon the stage. Here
we will undertake to give only the very funda-
mental principals of this intricate but fascinating
art. Like all existing books on make-up, we shall
be handicapped by having to mention many
brands of make-up, each with a different method
of application, instead of selecting one and giving
to the fullest the methods of using it. However.
we will leave it to the individual to select his
favorite brand of make-up, and then by further
study and practice develop his skill in its use.
There are two fundamental uses of make-up;
to look like oneself, and to look like someone else.
The make-up used to look like oneself is called a
“straight” make-up. The make—up used to look
like someone else is called “character” make—up.
Character make-up is of more importance to the
amateur than the professional. The professional
has the advantage of not being personally ac-
quainted with his audience. but the amateur is ap-
pearing before his friends and neighbors. If John
Jones steps upon the stage looking like John
Jones, many in the audience will say, “Why.

Some of the processes involved
in making an actor look like
himself or like somebody else.

there’s John Jones, I spoke to him upon the street
today.” John Jones will have trouble getting
away from himself. But if he can change his ap-
pearance in some way the audience finds it easier
to forget John Jones and to see only the character
in the play. Many productions are ruined by poor
make—up. A high school boy playing grandfather,
while still looking like a high school boy, is work-
ing against a handicap that the most skilled actor
could not overcome.

Each actor makes himself up, having been
taught before the performance how to do so by
the make-up director. The actor makes up a few
days before the play, and tests the make—up on
the stage under the lights which are going to be
used in the production. Some one in the house
advises him, “your rouge is too strong (or not
strong enough) ; your wrinkles are too heavy (or
not heavy enough).” The amount of make-up
used depends entirely upon the stage lighting
Better too little make—up, than too much. The
purpose of all make-up is to appear natural.

The following outlines show what make-up to
use for various “straight” and “character” make-
ups. the order and method of application.

FEMININE STRAIGHT MAKE-UP ‘1

Max Fector's Theatre Make-up

First

Wash the face with soap and water and dry
thoroughly.

Stein's. Miner's. Leichner's. and Other Stick Grease Paints

Apply cold cream, then remove surplus, leaving thin
film of cream on face.

Second

Squeeze a quarter inch of grease paint out of tube and
stipple over the face. Moisten the hands in water and
Spread the grease paint thinly and smoothly over the
face. Use grease paint No. 1% for blondes, No. 2 for
lbrownettes, and No. 4% for brunettes.

526

Take the grease paint stick and apply a streak across
the forehead, down the center of the nose. down each
cheek and across the chin. Spread the paint evenly and
thinly over the face. Be sure to use the proper amount,
as too little makes the face appear patchy and too much
makes it appear muddy. Use light pink for blondes, dark
pink for brunettes.

. HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY 527

Max Factor's Theatre Make-up

Stein's, Miner's, Leichner's, and Other Stick Grease Paints

Third

Apply eye shadow to upper eyelid, covering the lid
first then blending it lightly up into the eyebrow and
shading it out carefully beyond the outer corner of the
eye. Liners are used for eye shadow, gray for gray
eyes, blue for :blue eyes, brown for brown eyes, etc.

Same.

Fourth

With a blending brush (small flat tipped Camel’s hair
brush) and moist rouge, paint the lips carefully. As a
rule follow the natural line of the lips, although they
can be made fuller, thinner, or straighter, as desired.
For blondes and brownettes use moist rouge No. 1;
for brunettes, moist rouge No. 2.

Fifth

Apply under rouge to the cheeks blending it out very
carefully. Rouge prominent parts of cheeks, and avoid
hollows. Each face must be studied and rouged indi-
vidually. Use under rouge No. 2 for blondes, No. 4 for
brownettes, and No. 3 for brunettes.

Sixth

With a derma pencil sketch a thin line below the lower
eyelashes and very close to them, then with the little
finger gently smudge the outer edge of the line so that
it is not harsh. With the derma pencil, and using short,
hairlike strokes, darken the eyebrows, shaping them as
desired. Use the brown derma pencil for blondes and
brownettes, the black derma pencil for extreme brunettes.

Apply wet rouge to the cheeks and blend it out care-
fully. Each face must be studied individually and the
rouge applied according to the contours. The rouge is
placed on the more prominent part of the face, never in
the shadows. Use light wet rouge for blondes, and
medium for brunettes.

Powder well, using a light pink shade of powder. Be
sure to remove all excess powder.

Do same, using a tooth pick or artists’ stomp, and
brown or black liner.

Seventh

Powder, patting on plenty of powder with the powder
puff. Pat, do not rub. Brush off surplus with powder
brush. Use powder No. 2 for blondes and powder No.
7-R for brownettes and brunettes.

Apply wet rouge to lips, shaping them as desired. Use
light wet rouge for blondes and medium wet rouge for

brunettes.

Eighth

Brush lashes with black masque, brushing the upper
lash up and the lower lashes down.

N inth

Dust technicolor dry rouge lightly over places where
under rouge has been applied.

Do same, using a mascara.

Dust Number 18 dry rouge lightly over places where
wet rouge has been applied.

MASCU LINE STRAIGHT MAKE-UP

First

Wash face with soap and water and dry thoroughly.

Apply cold cream, remove surplus, leaving thin film
of cream on the face.

Second

Apply grease paint 6-A for blondes and 7 for bru—
nettes, in same manner as feminine straight make-up.

Apply eye shadow.

Apply juvenile hero shade of grease paint, in same

manner as feminine straight make-up.

Third

Apply eye shadow.

Fourth

Apply moist rouge Number 3 to lips with blending
brush.

Fifth

Using derma pencil, make up eyes and eyebrows in
same manner as feminine straight make-up.

Apply wet rouge to cheeks, starting at temple and

blending down the side of cheeks into jaw. Use dark

wet rouge and use sparingly.

Powder well, using a juvenile flesh powder.

528 HOIV TO PRODUCE A PLAY

Max Factor's Theatre Make-up Stein's. Miner's, Leichner's, and Other Stick Grease Paints

Sixth

Powder well, using powder 7-R. Powder in same man-
ner as feminine straight make—up.

Make up eyes and eyebrows, using black or brown
liner and a tooth pick cr artists’ stomp, as for feminine
straight make-up.

Seventh .
Apply dark wet rouge sparingly to the lips.

Eighth

Dust raspberry dry rouge over the cheeks, starting at
the temples and running down into the jaw.

Brush lashes with black masque.

Apply black mascara to the eyelashes.

OLD AGE MAKE-UP
(Same for men and women as digerence in features makes digerence in character)

First

Wash face with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Apply cold cream, remove surplus leaving thin film

of cream on face.
Second

Apply grease paint as in previous make—ups, using
grease paint No. 5%.

Apply grease paint as in previous make-ups, using old
age grease paint.

Third

Using the brown liner, paint shadows about the eye
sockets, in the temples, in the hollows of the cheeks,
beneath the lower lip, and shadow lightly the faint de-
pression usually found across the forehead. Blend the
shadows carefully.

Do same, using brown or gray liners.

I“

Fourth

Highlight any features that should be made more
prominent, such as nose, cheek bones and chin, by paint-
ing with a light shade of grease paint Number 2 or 4%
make effective highlights. Blend highlights carefully into
make-up.

Do same, using a white liner or very pale juvenile
grease paint.

F ifrh
Sketch in lines and wrinkles with brown derma pen-

cil, following the natural lines in the face, or changing
the lines if the characterization demands it.

Do same with brown or dark crimson liner and a
toothpick or artists’ stomp.

Sixth

Highlight each wrinkle -by sketching along side of it Do same with white liner or very pale juvenile grease
another line in the same shade of light grease paint used paint.
in highlighting the features. Blend highlight and soften
wrinkles by rubbing gently with little finger.

Seventh
Brush the eyelashes and eyebrows with white liner and Same
gray them.
Eighth
Powder with No. 2 or white powder. Same
Ninth

Gray or whiten hair by powdering with corn starch,
or by using Max Factor’s liquid hair whitener.

Other Make-Up Suggestions

Middle Age Make-Up. Middle age is merely
a compromise between youth and age. Use same
grease paints as for straight make—up, shadow
very lightly, paint in a few wrinkles, not too
strongly, and gray hair only at temples. Make
up eyes and lips as f or straight make-up, and use
very little rouge upon the face, rather low down
upon the cheeks.

Same.

Beards, Beards, mustaches, sideburns, etc., are
made of crepe hair, which is applied to the face
with spirit gum. Prepare the crepe hair by comb-
ing out a quantity, soaking it in water, and dry-
ing it to straighten out the kinks. Comb the hair
well. Apply spirit gum in a thin film to the face
where the hair naturally grows. Take whisps of
the crepe hair and apply the ends to the gummed

(Continued on page 542)

The Evolution of a Parents' Orchestra

IVE YEARS AGO when the

B u x t o 11 Country Dav

School was established I
took over the directorship of
the music and rhythms depart—
ment. At about that time I read
an article by Professor Church in the Progres—
sive Education llfagaaine called “Training Music
Through Music.” In this article Professor
Church described his work at the Horace Mann
School and told how real orchestral instrUments
were put in the hands of children who were
taught how to play—-—let us say—-—a beginning “A”
on their various instruments, and thus proceeded,
with the aid of a piano which carried the air, to
embark on their first venture as an orchestra“. 1
was fascinated by the article, but felt that this
was a project with which I could not cope.

Two years later I accepted the position of in-
structor in rhythms at the summer demonstration
school at Teachers College. While there I had
the opportunity of seeing Professor Church’s
ideas very completely demonstrated. I was ex-
tremely interested, and that summer and the next
spent all of the time when I was not teaching
studying the technique of handling a beginner’s
orchestra and taking part in a similar adult or—
ganization. I went back to school eager to start
an orchestra in my seventh, eighth and ninth
grades. The first year I was asked not to at-
tempt it on account of the financial demands it
would make. But the second year I could put it
off no longer and finally found a parent who was
sufficiently interested to loan me $200 with which
to buy as many necessary second-hand instru
ments as possible. I asked the children to pur—
chase the violin and viola outfits, which were very
inexpensive. The string bass
nearly swamped us; it cost
$90! But we found good and
ineXpensive flutes and clari-
nets, and good bargains in
second-hand French horns,
trumpets and trombones.
Cellos were fair at $30. These
instruments made Up our

By THEODORA PERRINE

Director of Music and Rhythm

Buxton Country Day School
Short Hills, New Jersey

One of the most impressive develop-
ments in the schools of America has
been the instruction of many thou-
sands of children in the playing of
orchestral instruments. Miss Perrine’s
article describes an outcome of such
instruction which must be interesting
to recreation leaders as well as to
school music teachers.

orchestra. We paid for as much
as we could with the $200 and
got credit for the rest.

\Ve rented the instruments to
the children for $5 a half year
——-that rent to be 'applied on the
purchase if the children wished later to own their
own instruments. A number of clarinets, several
flutes, trombones and trumpets were bought. At
the end of the season we gave a‘concert and
charged admission. And by the close of the school
year we had paid off all our indebtedness.

Things were going smoothly, but I found that
I was up against a wholly unexpected problem.
The children quite frequently reported that their
mother or their father, as the case might be, ob-
jected to their practicing at home. They wanted
to listen to the radio, or they were tired, or they
didn’t like the sound. Well—for that matter—
neither did we! But the children and I had faith
in a happier future! '

We already had several parent activities at
Buxton—a shop class, a dramatic group, a French
class and a mothers’ rhythm class. And so it
occurred to me that if the parents were struggling
with squeaking violins and shrieking clarinets
themselves they might be more sympathetic with
the struggles of their offspring! Also, I thought,
how wonderful it would be for the family to
have some ensemble playing; how altogether good
from every angle! So we added the orchestra as
a possible activity for Buxton parents.

At first I had a desperate time trying to sell the
idea to the parents. They were intrigued but ter-
rified. “Why, I can even read a note of music!"
most of them said, while some admitted distant
but happily forgotten piano lessons. One or two
had played violin a little in
college. We had a tea one
Sunday afternoon and had
the instruments displayed as
temptineg as possible. And
by dint of much pleading and
exhorting I finally succeeded
in signing up some eight or
ten people who agreed to try

529

530 THE EVOLUTION OF A PARENTS” ORCHESTRA

out the idea. When the parents assembled I asked
them to make a choice as to the instruments they
wished to try, and then divided them into three
sections—string, brass and wood wind. Miss
Roos, who played for me at Columbia and studied
the brasses there, took the brasses in one room;
Miss Dvorak, who had just begun her work as
the children’s violin teacher, took the strings in
another. I had the wood winds in a third room.
We worked in sections for about three-quarters
of an hour and then came together and did our
worst, and best!

One of the parents, who is a well educated
musician, played the piano for us. Miss Roos and
Miss Dvorak,worked with the brasses and strings
and I led the ensemble through the simple early
numbers of the Church-Dykema Series.

The parents were quite astonished and thrilled
when they found that they were really playing
together and that while it might not be music that
they were producing, yet there was some sem—
blance to a tune and harmony.

The next week a wife brought her husband
(protesting violently and with a Saturday Even-
ing Post tucked under his arm). “I came because
my wife makes me. but I can’t read a note of
music and I can’t carry a tune,” said our future
string bass player of whom we are inordinately
proud.

That was the beginning of our parents’ or-
chestra. They have worked with enthusiasm and
come faithfully to rehearsals. Some outsiders and
more parents have joined. The new members in—
clude three good violinists and a good cellist. Our
organization now numbers about thirty and com—
prises the following instruments:

6 first violins 3 clarinets

6 second violins 2 trumpets

4 violas 1 French horn

2 cellos l trombone

1 bass 2 pianists (who alternate)
2 flutes 1 tympani (borrowed!)

\Ve are nearing the end of our second season.
we meet every Monday evening and for the past
two months on Thursdays also, for we are pre-
paring to play selections from “The Mikado” as
an overture to the opera which the children are
to give later.

We have used the two Church-Dykema Series,
the first of the stock programs for school orches-
tras, and just now we are working on simple ar—
rangements of Bach and Handel dance forms.
Last year also we played selections from “The
Gondoliers” when the children gave that Gilbert

and Sullivan opera. We hope so much to have
improved this year at least a little over that
performance.

There seems to me to be several valuable points
about the adult orchestra. For one thing, it does
make the parents much more-vitally interested in
and sympathetic with the children’s efforts. Best
of all, it has started many small family ensembles.
There are several families now where every mem-
ber plays some instrument, families where music
had little or no place before. This seems to me
of the deepest importance both for the family
life itself and for the future of music in America.
Several families often meet together on Sundays
also and seem to get a great deal of pleasure from
playing together. Then also the “tired” business
man or woman who perhaps had a longing toward
some form of self—eXpression finds in the or-
chestra a real relief from the cares and worries
of these recent depression years.

In the beginning a very few of the parents had
several private violin lessons. But for the most
part they have had only the instruction that we
were able to give them in class or that they were
able to dig out for themselves, or get from their
children.

This last year the parents have bought their
own music and most of them have provided their
own instruments, for we found that many com-
plications occurred when the parents depended
entirely upon the children’s equipment. This year
also a fee has been charged to those playing in
the orchestra. But this was done to raise money
for the school and as our contribution toward
reducing the deficit.

“Creativeness and intelligence are not the pos-
session of a special class, and if wholeness is ever
to be found within an industrial civilization it
will be through means which will allow all per—
sons, within the limits of their capacities, to share
in the achievements of beauty and wisdom. How
is this to be brought about? There is, it seems to
me, but one answer—namely through the creative
use of leisure time. Our machines can at least
give us this: they can make it possible for work-
ers to spend less time at necessary labor and more
in the free pursuit of leisure. The present task
of educators and social strategists is to construct
an environment within the industrial civilization
in which the hours of leisure may take on new
meanings.” E. C. Lindenmu, in a report of the
Art Workshop.

Palo Alto's

Community

Playhouse

in store for citizens of Palo Alto and sur-

rounding communities who are already en-
joying the fuller leisure in their new civic play-
house in the heart of the city’s residential district.
After months of study into little theater buildings
and requirements, the architects, Birge M. Clark
and David B. Clark, presented their drawings to
the City Council of Palo Alto. Local contractors
and laborers donated two days’ work a week out
of the five, and the building was completed early
last July, a monument to community spirit and
generosity.

All of the city’s artistic and cultural activities
are benefiting by the theater, the gift of Mrs.
Louis Stern, a resident. Under the jUrisdiction
of the Community Center Commission, a branch
of the city government, the building is available
for music and dance recitals and for dramatic
events such as light Opera, plays, dramatic read—
ings, lectures and forums.

The auditorium seats 428 people in fully up—
holstered seats, two inches wider and providing
three inches more knee space than those of the
average commercial theatre. The stage, with its
proscenium arch 26 feet wide and I3 feet high,
is 35 feet deep and 60 feet wide, larger than most
of the commercial stages in San Francisco.
Equipped with the most up-to-date stage devices,
the theater is a joy to every technician.

The workshop is a two-story room amply
lighted by two enormous windows on the north
and east. On two floors adjoining the workshop
arc the dressing-rooms. Under an arcade on the
south side of the theater are exterior entrances

MANY HOURS of pleasure and relaxation are

 

.-l"

- #-
"",¢ ‘2' 
- ‘v 1“ 4 u n i .

By BEATRICE ARLINE JONES

Director of Publicity
Palo Alto Community Players

to the costUme room, the green room, the direc-
tor’s office, rest rooms and check room. Charm
and simplicity of style are found in the foyer,
which is designed to serve as an art gallery where
local and traveling exhibits may be hung. Over
the hand—hewn beam ceiling of the foyer are sev-
eral rooms which will be used for rehearsals and
'classrooms for the School of the Theater.

It was auspicious that to the Palo Alto Com-
munity Players, whose activities will be most
prominent in the new building, fell the honor of
opening the theater with “Grumpy,” a three—act
play by Horace Hodges and T. Wigney Percyval.
Dr. James Graham Sharp, San Francisco profes-
sional man and Palo Alto city father, played the
title role in the production which was directed by
Ralph Emerson Welles and dedicated to Mrs
Louis Stern.

In June, 1931, the Palo Alto Recreation De-
partment organized the Community Players. DUr-
ing the first year twenty—five programs of three
one-act plays each and ten full-length plays were
produced in the Community House Upon a most
inadequate stage and with make-shift facilities.
Deep interest, hard work and ceaseless activity
brought the organization through the next year
with money in the bank. Then came Mrs. Stern’s
gift to the city, a “house-of-dreams-come-true”
for the Players as well as for other cultural or--

(Continued on page 543)
531

AFTER having its
community building
closed and being with-
out a full time com-
inunity recreation director since last May, the
citizens of Sycamore, Illinois. have reopened the
building and revived their recreation program to
the extent of providing a full time recreation man
and a woman assistant. As a result of a post-
card canvass of the recreational interests of the
people, 80 per cent of the returns expressed a
desire that the building be reopened and the pro-
gram continued. Accordingly, a new recreation
committee of eight was selected and over 1,800

Community Building
Re0pened

 

in memberships secured. Revenues from activities
in the building will provide a budget of approxi-

mately $3,500.

IN Toledo, Ohio,
there is a church so-
cial center built at a

cost‘ of $77,000 which
is now in the hands of a bank for debt. Mr. M. W.

Green, Superintendent of Recreation, secured the
use of this building by agreeing to put it in condi—
tion and keep it in repair. This he has done through
the use of relief labor. A man has been employed
to organize and conduct groups in the history of
the theatre, production, costume designing, make-
up, and scenery building. About two hundred
members have joined the group and a citizens’
committee is in charge. Two productions for
which a charge was made have been given, and

532

A Little Theater
in Toledo

 

there have been six free evenings of one act plays.
It is hoped that eventually the city will purchase
the property.

LA S T summer the
citizens of Flint,
Michigan, found much
pleasure in three beau-
tiful outdoor theaters erected in suitable settings
in parks thronghout the city. The theaters,
planned by J. D. McCalluni, landscape architect
on the park stall“, were built by relief labor. The
theater at \Vhaley Park, typical of all, consists of
a grass stage 55 feet wide, 35 feet deep and raised
31/3 feet from the level. The semi-circle 0f the
stage has a thick background of trees with three
hidden entrances on each side. These admit the
performers from large circular spaces on each
side of the stage in which the actors may wait
hidden from the audience by thick plantings.
Flood lights are located in trees and equipment
for footlights is built at the front of the stage.
ielow the grassed terrace on the front of the
stage and four feet below the stage level is an
orchestra pit separated from the audience by a
rustic fence. From this point the ground slopes
upward gradually providing room for an audience
of from five to six thousand people...

One evening each week during the past summer .
an entertainment was given in these theaters by
groups from the playgrounds. The program con-
sisted of singing, instrumental music and short
dramatic skits. Local adult drama groups pre-
Sented a number of plays during the summer.

Outdoor Theaters
At Flint

WORLD AT PLAY 533

1‘3

A Record in Volunteer Service—From the
State Hospital of Lincoln, Nebraska, comes the
story of a man who for fifty-three years has
served as volunteer leader of the hospital’s or—
chestra. Walter Seidel began playing at the hos—
pital in 1880 and has been present every Friday
night since with the exception of one night when
he was out of town. He plays the violin and calls.
When he began calling the hospital was small and
there were only two sets or sixteen people. Now
there are from 15 to 18 sets or 120 to 144 people
on the floor at each dance. There were three in
the orchestra when Mr. Seidel began; now there
are on an average of six. Mr. Seidel, who has
been a farmer in the vicinity of Lincoln all his
life, is now eighty-two years of age. Besides
playing at the hospital he played in the earlier
days for dances all around the countryside.

The patients enjoy the dances greatly and the
activity in the opinion of Dr. D. G. Griffiths,
Superintendent of the hospital, has in many cases
been a great help in their recovery.

New Recreation Facilities in New Hamp-
shire—New Hampshire this winter has thirty-
live miles of new skiing trails most of which pro—
vide facilities for beginners on skis,'for individ—
112118 in the advanced class and those rated as in—
termediates. A winter sport center has been
established at the Forest Lake bathing beach pro-
ject’ near W'hitelield with three ski runs, a bob
sled run, skating and other sports. Next summer
there will be live large public bathing and picnic
centers, two of which were partially opened last
year. There is a strong possibility that at least
two more and possibly three more large swimming
centers will be acquired within the next few
months. None of these new bathing centers will
have a beach less than 1,000 feet and most of
them will have a beach length much beyond that
figure. Everyone of them will have a large picnic
grove attached. In addition to the state centers,
two local centers are in process of development——
in Laconia at Opeechee Park and at Hanover

where a new lake is being created by damming a
valley.

Municipal Camp for Wandering Youths——
The Los Angeles, California, municipal boys’
camp in Griffith Park has been opened for the
benefit of wandering youths whose presence in
large numbers presented a social and economic
problem to state, county and city authorities. The

At last - SAFETY-
in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

   
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
 

    
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
     
 
    
   
   
   
     

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact. surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension
clevises are re-

versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

534 l/VORLD AT PLAY

College Degrees for
Students and Teachers of

Health, Physical Education
and Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION

June 11 to June 29 July 2 to August 10
August 13 to August 31

Graduate courses in Health and Physical Educa-
tion leading to standard degrees. Undergraduate
courses leading to baccalaureate degree. Special
courses in Athletic Coaching for men and women.
Reduced room. board and railroad rates.
For Special Bulletin address Director of Summer Session

The Pennsylvania State College
State College. Pa.

boys will be assigned to the camp by the State
Emergency Relief Administration Transient Ser-
vice which will meet the cost of operating the
camp and of feeding, clothing and supervising
the boys. The same organization will pay for
necessary improvements to housing facilities, din-
ing room and. recreation buildings to meet the re—
quirements of the new use of the camp. The
Playground and Recreation Department will oper-
ate the camp and will provide useful work pro-
jects and a program of character and health
building recreation.

Allentown Receives Beautiful Estate—The
will of General Harry C. Trexler of Allentown,
Pennsylvania, has bequeathed Springwood Park,
his beautiful country estate, to the city together
with $250,000 for upkeep. General Trexler’s
3,000 acre game preserve has been left to Lehigh
County with $100,000 provided for maintenance.
A quarter of the income from the Trexler estate
is given Allentown for the maintenance of its
park system. In addition, the will provides
through a trust fund for maintaining in perpetu-
ity the annual celebration of Romper Day for the
children of the playgrounds. Civic and charitable
organizations were remembered in the will, and
With a vision to changing conditions General
l'rexler prescribed that his trustees should use the
income of half the estate in such ways “as in their
discretion shall be to the most benefit of human-
ity,” limiting them, however, as to locality, namely,
the City of Allentown and the County of Lehigh.

Dangers in Roller Skating— The National
Bureau of Casualty and Surety Underwriters has
pointed out the dangers of roller skating as shown
In a study made in twenty American cities. Acci-
dents are said to have increased five-fold in St.
Louis. Cleveland has reported nineteen accidents

 

and one death, and Detroit 122 mishaps. In Bal-
timore there have been ninety accidents and three
deaths as against twenty-seven accidents and no
fatalities a year ago. As a remedy the Bureau
recommends the passage of local legislation pro-
hibiting skaters from using main streets and high
ways and from skating in business districts. It
further suggests as compensatory measures that
adaptable sections of parks be turned over to the
skaters, the public school playgrounds be made
available or that streets in residential districts be
roped OE for the skaters.

The Denver Leisure Time Council—The
Denver Leisure Time Council is a cooperating
and coordinating plan by which neighborhood
groups, churches, schools, municipal departments,
the community chest and other organizations may
join in meeting the problem of unoccupied leisure
time. Its purpose is "to help communities to or-
ganize and promote programs of recreation and
entertainment that are wholesome and happy; to
encourage family recreation and home play and
to offer every individual opportunities for pur—
poseful and happy recreation.” Individuals and
groups are cooperating by volunteering leadership
for meetings and parties and by various forms of
personal entertainment, by the organization and
direction of clubs, by personal service as leaders
and officials, by donating facilities and equipment,
and by promoting neighborhood recreation and
entertainment programs. Committees of the
Council operating are Publicity and Leadership.
Coordination and Cooperation, Entertainment
Programs, Home and Community Recreation, and
Community Centers and Clubs.

New Playgrounds Dedicated in New York
City—Recently three new playgrounds have been
dedicated in New York City. One of them has
been called the Lionel Sutro Playground. The
other two, located in congested districts of the
East Side, have been named in honor of Sophie
Irene Loeb, who made so outstanding a contri-
bution to child welfare, and of Dr. Luther Halsey
Gulick, the first president of the National Recre-
ation Association. Officials of the Park Depart-
ment and representatives of civic organizations
made addresses, and there were appropriate
ceremonies.

Cedar Rapids’ Friendly Club —- The Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, Playground Commission has or-

WORLD AT PLAY

A Better Position

You can get it

Hundreds of teachers will earn two hundred dollars or more this
summer. 80 CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better

position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE
OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be
mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available
now in every State. They will soon be filled.

Continental Teachers Agency, Inc.
1850 Downing Street Denver, Colo.

Covers the ENTIRE United States

School Ofiicials! You may wire us your vacancies at our ex—
pense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential

53

reports by air mail within 36 hours.

 

ganized a Friendly Club open to all adults, espe-
cially those who are strangers in the city. The
purpose is to provide one evening a week for
adults to meet in friendly fellowship and to en—

joy programs of music, drama, social recreation
and group singing.

Dubuque’s Community Center—The Recrea-
tion Board of Dubuque, Iowa, maintains a com-
munity center in a school located in one of the
poor sections of the city. Basement rooms and
three large classrooms are used and the building
is open every day from 4 :00 to 10:30 P. M. Play-
ground directors are operating this center on a

volunteer basis, two being assigned to the center
each night.

Leisure Time and Educationa

Opportunities and Needs
(Continmd from page 500)

more than to be directed to a street and number.
Also, the various agencies serving the educational
processes themselves increasingly wish to know
how to correlate their efforts in the light of a
larger community program. There are also in-

dividuals and groups who wish to initiate new
enterprises in adult education. Such individuals
and groups need the kind of advice and assistance
that can best be given by those who have a com—
prehensive knowledge both of the community set-
up and of the possibilities that lie_ open to new
effort. This center, then, should be not only a
place where information is gathered and dis-
pensed, but where opportunity is given for widest
discussion and correlation of the community’s
educational plans and objectives.

Excellent as the present opportunities are,
however, and widely as their present facilities
may be made to cover our immediate demands,
there will be the need for the kind of expansion
which ventures into new fields. That has been

mentioned several times today. Apparently it is
much needed.

Outstanding Needs

One of the outstanding needs, no doubt, will be
for the development of a greater degree of active—
mindedness in people. The easy tendency to sit
and listen, or to sit and look, will doubtless have
to be re-directed in ways that make the individ—
uals active contributors to the educative process.

536 NIRA AND SPORT

NIRA and Sport

E ARE in the midst of a movement for length-

ening the play time of the nation. It is. not
an organized movement. It is simply an unavoid-
able corollary of the great industrial experiment
on which we are entering under the National In-
dustrial Recovery Act. In the past the people
have eagerly appropriated every new increment
of leisure time. They immediately took possession
of the Saturday half-holiday and capitalized it for
sport. They went touring on two wheels, just as
now, with a full day off at the end of the week_
they go abroad on four wheels. Persons more or
less able to control their own time manage now to
encompass a Friday to Monday “week-end” every
little while in summer time. The H erald’s report
that 350,000 were at Revere Beach. Sunday, and
250,000 at Nantasket is an indication of what we
may eXpect frequently when the 40-hour work
week becomes general.

It is a fair question whether the administrators
of NIRA should not include facilities for recre-
ation in their programs of public works. The de-
mand for play and sport facilities now exceeds
the supply. Witness the line that forms at day—-
break for tennis at Franklin park, the constant
multiplication of golf clubs, the after-hours ball
games that only darkness st0ps on the Common,
the avidity with which both youngsters and old-
sters take possession of every convenient beach.
Similar conditions prevail throughout the coun-
try. Every new hour of leisure will produce in-

creased competition for the use of facilities.
——Courtesy of The Boston H orald, August 1.

 

This will doubtless necessitate the formation of
smaller, more informal groups, the development
of secondary leaders, the organization of neigh-
borhood centers, particularly the organization of
groups where older members will feel free to be
active participants. There will be value in the
use of radio in this active-minded way.

There will be the need for a less forbidding
acad'emicism. Physical environments will need to
be created that will have the atmosphere of the
living room rather than of the classroom. The
rigor of accurate thinking in no wise need be les-
sened by'such hostages paid to comfort and in-
formality. Hard thinking can be done around a
fireplace as surely as in the forbidding presence
of a row of blackboards. In brief, if adult edu-
cation is to become the great force in our con-

temporary life which is written in its destiny, it
must do so by being a keen pleasure rather than a
doleful compulsion.

And so we can visualize the contribution which
adult education can make to our leisure life. It
has long been established among us that there are
few, if any, keener delights than learning to
know. Man ignorant is either a poor, bewildered
creature, ill at ease and unwitting of his way,
or he is a contented animal. There is something
in his destiny which ever urges him beyond igno-
rance. Today, in the midst of our complexities
and our vast opportunities, the urge is more in—
sistent than ever. Now at last we enter upon this
new phase of our history, the phase in which
learning is to be made continuous with life, the
phase in which, as adults, we seek the truth be-
cause we know that the truth can make us free to
live the only life that is genuinely worth the living.

The Leisure Services of Museums
(Continued from page 506)

astronomy. Six years ago, under the leadership
of Dr. Clyde Fisher, Curator of Astronomy in the
American Museum, the Amateur Astronomers
Association was organized. The only requirement
for membership is an interest in the universe and
the payment of a small fee. The association has a
membership of about 600 and holds two meetings
monthly except during the summer, with an aver—-
age attendance of 250. For more than six years
now, this large group of people has continued as
a vigorous, enthusiastic and effective organization
making pleasurable use of leisure time. The off-
spring of this association have been several small
classes (one in telescope making) conducted by
individual members of the association. The grand~
child is the Junior Astronomy Club, composed of
some 300 children who conduct their own meet-
ings, prepare and issue a bi-monthly publication,
and make original observations in the field of
astronomy. This is an outstanding example of
how a large group, brought together through a
single interest, has worked together for a long
period of time. '

In.

One of our most satisfactory and impressive
experiences at the Museum in the use of leisure
time was a series of lectures pertaining to the
Museum exhibits, given to foreign-born students
in the evening public schools and carried out in
cooperation with Miss \Vinifred Fisher, Execu-

ENLARGED ADULT EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES 537

tive Secretary of the New York Conncil on Adult
Education for the foreign-Born. The subjects
were chosen by the students themselves from a
list of topics submitted on natural science and
American history. \Veek after week this group
of foreign-born assembled from 1.000 to 1.500
strong in our Museum auditorium and listench to
lectures by our specialists, and then flocked to our
exhibition halls for observation of the material
and exhibits that had been referred to by the
speaker. Never has there been a more earnest,
responsive group at the Museum.

Activities such as I have referred to above may
be organized along many other nature study lines.
For example, a group may be interested in the
past history of the earth. This story is very
strikingly presented in the great fossil halls of the
Museum. Our community borders the sea, and
people by hundreds of thousands flock to the
beaches. An acquaintanceship with the exhibits
depicting marine life, as presented in Darwin l lall
and our Hall of Ocean Life, will make these visits
to the seashore far more interesting and e11 joyablc.

In the discussion which followed all the speak-
ers decried the reduction of funds, in some in-
stances as high as 28% of the budget, which made
it necessary to curtail services at a time when
facilities should be available to their full capacity.
The American Museum has been compelled to
close ten of its exhibition halls daily. With a
little reconstruction, impossible now because of
lack of funds. the Brooklyn Museum could make
it possible for at least a million more people to
take advantage of the opportunities offered. \Vith
adequate funds more greatly needed branch mu-
seums could be established and more exhibits
loaned to settlement houses and similar groups.
All the museum representatives stated it was most
unfortunate that the museums as a whole could
not be open evenings to the public. In some in-
stances a few of the facilities are now open
evenings to special adult education groups or for
concerts and similar activities.

Enlarged Adult Education
Opportunities

(Continued from page 507)

much wider program of training in the held of
cultural and avocational subjects. Secondly, there
is a great need for better recreational opportuni-
ties in New York City. Then there is a need in

 

DIAMOND OFFICIAL COURTS
FOR INDOORS OR OUT

 

"DIAMOND

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to
professionals. Excellent for amateurs. Just
what's needed on a playground. Will
stand up under severest treatment. Dia-
mond Officials made straight or curved toe
callt. hard or soft (dead falling). Junior
model for ladies and children.

  

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

 
   

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 Grand Avenue, Duluth. Minn.

New York for vocational courses or occupational
courses that will be of help in assisting people to
readjust themselves economically. Many of them
have been dispossessed of their jobs and will
probably never be able to return to their old oc-
cupations because of changed economic condi-
tions. They face squarely the responsibility of
securing training for a new vocation and these
courses are of immense help to men and women
who have to plan for a new economic responsibility.

Asked whether he felt this experimental pro-
gram in adult education indicated a trend toward
more tax-supported education in this field, Dr.
\Vilson said he believed the most urgent educa-
tional need today was in this field. There is an
increasing demand for adult education planned
to help people meet changing social and economic
conditions. On the other hand, he said, there is
jUSt as much interest on the part of adults in
general cultural training in the fields of art, music
and drama as there is in vocational training. If
facilities and funds were available Dr. Wilson be-
lieves 100,000 adults could be enrolled in the
classes in New York City.

538 MAGAZINES AND PAMPLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

H ygeia, January 1934

Windows to the World of Hobbies, by Vivian
Loomis Godfrey

Training for Athletics and Health, by Alfred E.
Parker.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1933

Two Committee Reports on Leisure Time, submitted
by W. G. Moorhead

The American City, January 1934

Developing a Swamp Into a Lake Park, East St.
Louis, 111.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
January 1934 _

The Organization of Physical Education in France,
by Christian Lazard

W'inter Sports to the Fore, by Harriette Aull

Volley-balluAn Analysis of the Game for Teaching
Purposes, by Edward F, Voltmer

Parks and Recreation, December 1933
Parks and Recreation in Germany

\V inter Sports Season at Bear Mountain Park
C.VV.A. Work in National Parks

PAM PHLETS

Annual Report of Parks and Recreation, Commissioners of
lVorcester, Mass., 1932

A Camp Behavior Survey

'by Olliver L. Austin, Big Brother Movement, Inc.,
Toronto Canada.

Leisure-Time in Millburn, N. J.-——A Report for I933

Eleventh Annual Report—Recreation Commissioners of
Plainfield, N. J., 1933

Belmont, Mass., Playground Committee Report for I933

4-H Handy Book

Free to state and county extension agents and local

leaders. National Committee on Boys and Girls
Club Work, 430 South Michigan Avenue, Chi-
cago, Ill.

A Seasonal Program of Physical Education Activities for
High School Boys and Girls of Maryland

Maryland School Bulletin, September 1933. State
Department of Education, Baltimore, Md.

Los Angeles Department of Playground and Recreation

Annual Financial Report for the Year Ending June
30, l 93 3

Annual Report. of Parks and Recreation Commissioners
of Worcester, Mass. 1932

Leisure As An Economic Phenomenon

(Continued from page 511)

there is a provision in practically all codes that
the reduction in hours shall be accompanied by
no reduction in wages, the aim being, of course.
to increase the total purchasing power under the
control of labor. Yet it remains true that the
scarcity of work and the desire to share what
work is available has played a most important
part in the sudden turn-about of the trend in
scheduled hours since the Recovery Program was
launched. I have analysed the first sixty-four
codes as a sample of what hours the Recovery
Program is providing and they fall into the fol-
lowing groups:

HOURS PROVIDED IN FIRST 64 CODES

Group No. of Codes
27 Hours . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

35 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

36 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

40 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 50

40—48 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

44 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l

48 “ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

The hours in the foregoing table exaggerate the
tendency slightly because every one of these codes
has one or more groups of workers who may be
granted a tolerance of approximately 10% and
sometimes more over the regular factory force or
the bulk of employed workers. None the less it is
clear that if this program is continued. anything
over forty hours a week will now be considered
a lengthy working week.

VVhatIdoes this mean to those of you who are
professionally interested in the use of leisure
time? Even if any of you are possessed of the
grave doubts concerning the working men’s use of
his leisure that has been expressed by some em-
ployers and gentlemen of aristocratic tradition, if
there continues to be a still larger increase in the
number of automobiles on the roads,'in the num-
ber of people going to the movies daily, attending
great spectacles like football games, still, with a
vast abundance of leisure at the disposal of every
man and woman there will have to be a very great
development in facilities for recreation, self-im—
provement and adult education.

In reply to the question whether the applica-
tion of the codes would result in a shorter day or
a shorter week, Mr. Peck stated it would mean a
shorter week as nearly all the codes provide for
maximum hours per week. In most industries the

WHEN YOU RIDE A HOBBY 539

free days will come at the end of the week except
in instances where it is necessary to have men on
the job every day of the week. The bulk of codes,
however, will probably provide for a five .day
week and an eight hour day.

There is very likely to be, Mr. Peck said, a ser-
ious effort to make the hours still shorter. But
the attainment of the thirty hour week which
many people are urging introduces complications,
for unless hourly rates are very radically in-
creased the wages earned would be utterly in-
adequate, and that would mean radical changes in

costs and prices.

When You Ride a Hobby

(Continued from page 514)

they are acquired when very young and passed on
to other years, so much the better. The best kind
of 'a hang—over is a recreative hang-over from
one’s youth to adult years. Skills in games and
hobbies acquired in the active play time of youth
are a casualty insurance collectable at a later date.

Comparativer few older folks will learn a new
game or sport, such as tennis, swimming, rowing,
or a new craft like woodworking, or drawing or
modeling. Golf appears to be an exception, but
there are strong social factors involved here which
help to make this an exceptional recreation.
Men and women who do not learn to swim when
in their teens or before, rarely learn afterwards
and certainly do not engage in it as enthusiasti-
cally as those who learn to swim when young.

Almost all enthusiastic card players learned the I

game before they were twenty. \Ve do not enjoy
doing things which we do badly. Some mastery
of the game or sport or craft is necessary for
enjoyment.

What is the pleasure we get from a hobby but
a forgetfulness of all other pursuits? To be a
hobby it must be an activity in which we have
continuous satisfaction. We must eagerly want
to do it. I know a man of science who would not
have a flower garden because he did not Wish to
lose himself in this enjoyable pursuit to the ex
clusion of his scientific thoughts. Whether rightly
or wrongly, he did not want to lose the trend of
thought which the enthusiastic enjoyment of this
hobby would produce I

It is curious that the tremendous release of the
human mind in hobbies has not been more ob-
served and remarked upon. It is the real play or
recreative spirit developed sometimes in very

 

Read This Letter

“When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book --—
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens
of times already. It is, indeed, the
Pool Bible.

“(Signed)

"CAPT. EDW. H. MCCRAIION.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo.
Capt. McCrabon was for seven years manager of
Spa Municipal Pool and Beach. St. Petersburg, Fla.

Send for a COpy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.
H4 E. 32nd smser NEW YORK CITY

ordinary beings to a very high degree. Often it
appears to express more vitality than any other
activity in the person’s life. The well-balanced
recreative life always has a place for a hobby.
Every one should have one even if so poor a
treasure as playing solitaire. In our hobbies will
be found that recreative release which is far more
important to men and women than most of the
so-called serious activities which we pursue.

Challenge of the New Leisure

(Continued from page 522)

essential nature. But freedom to follow our free-
time interests implies a wider range of facilities
than 'the average individual is able to supply.
Social planning and social control must go hand
in hand as we build up. the world of the future.

An Old Art Serves a New Age

(Continued from page 516)

their new possession. Both name and design—
perky bunnies, wise looking geese, cats, dogs, and
Teddy bear—are fired into the pottery and never
wear off.

The school makes a special feature of training

540 AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

 

WILLIAM D. CHAMPLIN

ON JANUARY I, 1934, William D. Champlin
retired as Chief of the Recreation Bureau,
Department of Public \Velfare, of Philadelphia,
after twenty-five years of service in the recrea—
tion field. Mr. Champlin was one of the pioneers
in recreation. Not only Philadelphia, but many
other communities have profited by his knowledge
of the principles involved in the construction of
recreation facilities and their uses, for Mr. Cham-
plin was always happiest when sharing with others
the technical information of which he was a mas—
ter and the results of his pioneering and experi-
menting. The recreation buildings, swimming
pools and other recreation facilities of Philadel-
phia are a monument to his years of loyal, de-
voted service.

For many years Mr. Champlin has been a faith-
ful attendant at Recreation Congresses. His many
friends will look forward to greeting him in
future years at the Congresses.

Daniel R. Neal, formerly Director of Recrea—
tion at Cranford, New Jersey, and recently a
member of the staff of the Union County Recre-
ation system, has been appointed Director of Rec—
reation for Greensboro, North Carolina, where
a year-round recreation program has been es-

tablished.

pupils to throw on the wheel, and it is in this
particular activity that exceedingly good work is
done. There is perhaps no phase of pottery mak-
ing that is more fascinating than this: to both
the worker and the onlooker it appears to be
almost incredible that such a. variety of form can
come from a shapeless lump of clay “thrown” on
the wheel.

Scholarships are awarded and a number of
talented men and women are today pupils of the
school because of this form of admission.

More than ever before in the history of this
new country, new at least in comparison to Euro-
pean countries and Asiatic, is there need for rec—
reation that mentally satisfies. The older nations
of the world in earlier periods made thoughtful
provision for just such leisure as is now coming
into the experience of Americans. There must be
no defeat of the spirit in this time of enforced
leisure for millions and of appreciated leisure for
the hundreds. Such an opportunity as the Paul
Revere Pottery School of Ceramics offers—a
recreation that is also an education—is an emi-
nently worthwhile contribution.

Educational Opportunities of the
Adolescent

. (Continued from page 524)
of leading up to matters of choice when vocations

must be decided upon .

The adolescent must be enabled to develop so-
cially and in the matter of citizenship. This is a
means of his becoming acquainted with the city
and may serve as a constructive approach to city
activities.

If possible, first-hand contact with people who
are doing socially significant things should be
established. The child is then barred from cyni-
cism. He should be related to agencies, institu~
tions and people who are making for righteous-
ness, and if possible, develop opportunities for
service along the line of his related interests.

Cultural expansion of the child is important.
The interests of the adolescent should be broad-
ened, and the relation of art, science, literature
and other subjects to the child’s interest should
be made. Ways of extending the child’s interest
from one field to another should be found.

In expanding the interest of the child we en-
able him to ally himself with a cause that over—
reaches himself. The task of education is to help
him save his own soul by administering to the
indispensable needs of others who are immedi-

FEBRUARY PARTY SUGGESTIONS 541

ater related to the things he considers important;
to help him find out how his interests might en
rich the lives of others, and thereby transform
his own.

February Party Suggestions

( Continued from page 525)

tines for each person in the group. Cut each into
various sizes and shapes and place into enve10pes.
These are distributed to the group one for each
person. Paste and a sheet of paper large enough
to mount one of these valentines are given each
person. They are instructed to put the valentines
together and paste on the paper. When mounted
they are numbered and hung upon the wall. Each
person is given a pencil and paper and are asked
to judge which valentine is typical of each par-
ticular person since there is one for each, i.e., if
you think N o. I represents Mrs. Smith write
“Mrs. Smith” opposite No. I on the sheet of
paper. The person guessing the most wins.

Heart Sandwich. Every one is given a red

cardboard heart which is slung over his or her
shoulders in sandwich—man fashion. Moreover, on
each heart is the name of some sandwich—jam,

ham, cheese, nut, lettuce, etc. The leader, who

has a list of sandwiches, selects them at random

for stunts. Thus he may sing out, “ham and jam"
to do a dance or “cheese and nut” to have a tor-
toise race, and the like.

Heart Felt Wish. Each person draws from a
hat at random a sealed envelope with a heartfelt
wish contained in it. This envelope is to be pinned
to the shoulder of the next person ahead. of him.
When all are thus adorned, they form a circle,
facing out, and the leader within the circle
touches some one’s back with his wand. The en-
tire circle wheels about and watches the unfor—
tunate victim open his envelope and perform his
wish in the center of the circle. As all are in the
same boat, it behooves each one to be sympa-
thetic. From the performer’s actions the rest
guess the wish. Such as these are good actable
ones: W'ish I could dance; Wish I could sing;
Wish I could row a boat; \Vish I could play ice
hockey.

(From bulletin issued by the Department of Public
Playgrounds and Recreation, Reading, Pennsylvania.)

A Lincoln’s Birthday Party

W'hen invitations are sent out for the party, in—

     

4 ISSUES OF

LEHSME for 25¢

THE MAGAZINE OF A TI'IOUIAND DIVEQIIONS

{REGULAR SINGLE COPY PRICE IS CENTS)

ontains vividly interesting features on in-
door games, outdoor sports of all sea-
sons, amateur dramatics, hobbies, avoca-
tions, home-craft—a wealth of suggestions
for the pleasurable use of leisure time.

~f%)r IVANHE ..................................................... ..
ADDRESS ............................................. "
25c  ........................................................ ..

 

Special Offer to RECREATION Readers!

CEeachers, parents, educators, athletic direc~

................................................ H STATE NMmMMMMMMMMmMmmmmmmm

 

tors persons of all ages and callings—
enjoy reading LEISURE. You will, too.
Clip coupon below—till in your name and ad-
dress; enclose 25gf and mail today for 4 issues.

542 HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY

 

School Activities

“The Wational Extra Curricular Magazine

Our Best Testimonial and proof
of unusual Reader Interest —-

. . . . the number of SCHOOL

ACTIVITIES readers has in-
creased 400% during the

depression !

Many of our readers tell us that their copies of
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES are in constant demand net
only in their schools but at church and other

community functions.

Subscription Rate —only $l.50 per year
We will accept this ad copy and a remittance of
$|.25 as payment in full for a one year's subscription.

THE SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUB. Co.

1013 WEST SIXTH STREET
TOPEKA. KANSAS

 

strUct the prospective guests to bring twelve Lin-
coln pennies as the admission price. The pennies
may be used for some of the games, and later
they will help pay for the refreshments.

The Program

Find the Pennies. The group stands or sits
shoulder to shoulder in a circle with hands behind
backs. Half a dozen pennies are started around
the circle. “It,” the player in the center, tries to
locate one of the circulating pennies. When he
points at one of the players the player must show
both hands. If he is caught with a penny he be-
comes “it.”

Penny Race. Select eight contestants and have
ten pennies for each person placed on the floor
at regular intervals. At a signal the players pick
them up one at a time and race back to the start-
ing line to deposit them in 'a penny bank. A touch
of gIUe on the last few pennies will add difhculty
to the game. The game may be played by requir-
ing the contestants to wear gloves.

Penny Relay. ((1) Form the group into lines
of eight or ten. The players pass about twenty-

hve pennies, one at a time, down the line. \Vhen
the last person has accumulated all the pennies he
brings them forward. This is repeated until all
have had a turn. The line wins which finishes
first.

(b) Have six players race from one end of the
room to the other carrying 'ten pennies on a foot
ruler. If they spill any they must start over again.

Song Guessing'Contest. Some one plays Civil
War songs on the piano and the guests try to
identify the songs. For example, “Tenting To-
night,” “John Brown’s Body,” “Darling Nellie
Gray,” “Marching Through Georgia,” “Battle
Hymn of the Republic,” “Dixie,” “Bonnie Blue
Flag,” “Battle Cry of Freedom.”

Lincoln Story Contest. Each guest comes pre-
pared to tell 3 Lincoln story of fable. A prize is

given for the best story.

(Prepared and broadcast by W. T. Rowe and T. R.
Alexander of the Downtown Y.M.C.A., Pittsburgh, Pa.)

How to Produce a Play
(Continued from page 528)

face, being sure the hair lies in the direction in
which it naturally grows. Under the chin the
hair grows towards the front, and on the sides it
grows down. Observe a bearded man and follow
the natural hair direction. Apply the mustache
in two pieces, remembering that a mustache grows
up and down, not sideways. Press the beard and
mustache firmly to the face for a moment with
a towel, then comb out gently and trim with

scissors.

Scars. Realistic scars can be made by painting
in the scar with non-flexible collodion, letting it
dry, then painting over it again if the scar is not
deep enough. Repeat until the scar is the desired

depth.

Nose Putty. The nose, chin and cheeks may
be altered by using nose putty. The features de-
sired are modeled first upon the face, then the
face and false features are covered smoothly with
the base grease paint and the make-up continued.
Morticians wax (used by undertakers) is better
than the nose putty, but more expensive. It is
applied in the same manner.

Teeth. Teeth may be whitened with white
tooth enamel, or blocked out entirely by black
tooth enamel or black wax, for old age or charac-

ter parts.

PALO ALTO’S COMMUNITY PLAYHOUSE 543

The Make-Up Kit

Every amateur actor and director is urged to
study the art of make-up more thoroughly by
securing booklets published by the make-up com»
panies, and books on make—up. Like all other arts,
it requires study and practice, but it will amply
repay the student in greatly improved character-
izations and productions. Every club should have
a make-up kit. A good minimum kit is listed be-
low, for the various brands of make-up.

Max Factor's Theatre Make-up

Cold cream Dry rouge—Raspberry,
Powder—2 and 7-R technicolor
Grease paints—2, 6A, 5% Black masque
Liners—Yellow, gray, blue, Spirit gum

brown, white, black Crepe hair
Derma pencils—Black, brown Nose putty

Clown white
Minstrel burnt cork
Black tooth enamel

Under rouge—2 and 4
Moist rouge—l, 2, 3

Stein's. Miner's, Leichner's, and Other Stick Grease Paints

Dry rouge—No. 18
Black mascara

Cold cream
Light and dark powder

Liners—Gray, dark crim- Spirit gum
son, brown, yellow, Crepe hair
black, blue, white Nose putty

Artists’ stomps Clown white

Wet rouge—Light, Burnt cork
medium and dark Black wax

After the performance remove the make-up by
massaging thoroughly with cold cream, and wip-
ing away make-up with a soft cloth. Repeat if
necessary. When all make-up is removed, wash
with soap and water.

Palo Alto's Community Playhouse
(Continued from page 531)

ganizations in the locality. Ralph Emerson
Welles, a young man already equipped with years
of professional and community theater experi-
ence, was retained in November, 1932, as super-
vising director. Whitmore Waldegrave is the
technical director, and Waldemar Johansen, an
artist of considerable practical experience both
here and abroad in Germany, is art director.
With a growing membership of four hundred,
and an enthusiastic clientele drawn from Palo
Alto, San Francisco and the entire Peninsula and
Bay region, the Community Players are offering
each month one full-length play, one program of
professional one-act plays, one program of origi-
nal one-act plays, and a lecture, symposium, music

or dance recital. The writing and production of
original plays, experimentation in stage-craft, and
the encouragement of inexperienced actors and
artists, are considered vital to the organization’s
future.

There is plenty of recreation for The Player
in the good times they have working together.
They enjoy every minute of the time they spend
on a production, and the harder they work the
better they seem to like it. There are artists who
slave for hours on sets and never care whether
their names appear on the programs; there is no
thoUght of self-glory, simply joy in creating
something beautiful.

Foundations for a theater school are being laid,
since the theater's soundest growth is held to be
dependent upon the school’s development. Ex-
tensive plans are now being made for classes in
directing, stage-craft and dancing for the fall and
winter.

“Growing Pains,” a full-length comedy by
Aurania Rouverol, Palo Alto playwright and au-
thor of the Broadway success, “Skidding,” had
its premiere at the Community Theater on July
20. From Palo Alto this play was taken to the
Pasadena Community Playhouse, where it also
enjoyed a triumph, and is to be produced in New

York City this fall.

“Interference,” British drama of suspense and
murder, played to capacity houses in August at
the theater. Next, the Community Players wili
present “Nine Till Six,” Aimee and Philip
Stuart’s comedy-drama which has a cast of six-
teen women and no men. One of the features of
all performances at the theater is the host and
hostess committee, who greet members of the au-
dience as they arrive, and invite them to come
backstage after the play to meet the actors and
actresses and chat over a cup of hot coffee.

The director’s salary and the funds for the
maintenance of the building are appropriated in
the city budget. As one of the few little theater
organizations in the United States directly Oper-
ated as a city department, the Palo Alto Com.
munity Players are striving to provide a year-
round program of recreational activity in which
all may participate in their increased leisure. As
for the theater building itself, it is said to be one
of the three municipally owned and operated lit-
tle theater plants in the United States.

New Books on Recreation

 

Folk-Dances and Singing Games

Described and edited by Elizabeth Burchenal, B.A. G.
Schirmer (Inc.), New York. Board cover, net $1.25;

Cloth cover, net $2.75.

IN 1909 THE FIRST EDITION of Elizabeth Burchenal's

Folk-Dances and Singing Games appeared. In its pu'b-
lication Miss Burchenal made a great contribution to the
movement tO promote the use Of folk-dancing and the
appreciate of folk-arts in general. In the 1933 edition of
the volume, just Off the press, appears the preface written
by Dr. Luther H. Gulick for the original publication.
Dr. Gulick was one of the founders Of the American
Folk-Dance Society Of which Miss Burchenal is presi-
dent and director. What he had to say in his introduc—
tion about the importance of the folk—dance is even more
applicable at th_e present time than in 1909.

The 'bOOk contains twenty-six folk-dances of the .United
States, Denmark, Sweden, Russia, Hungary, Finland,
Italy, Czechoslovakia, England, and Scotland. A num-
ber of dances have been incorporated which did not ap—
pear in the original volume. For each dance music is
given and there are full directions for performance, with
illustrations.

On Sl<is Over the Mountains

By Dr. Walter Mosauer. The Cloister Press, Holly-
wood, Calif. $.50.

DR. MOSAUER of the University of California and chair-

man of the Ski Committee of the Southern Cali-
fornia Chapter Of the Sierra Club, has given us in this
illustrated booklet a manual on the technique of skiing.
Such details are considered as equipment, how to carry
and put on the skis, and the technique of walking, climb—-
ing, running, jumping, stopping and turning. It is an
exceedingly useful booklet for winter sports participants
to own.

Dance Studies Analyzed

By Betty Lynd Thompson and Margaret Jewell. Dance
Drama Committee, Women’s Building, Corvallis, Ore-
gon. $1.00.

HIS CAREFULLY worked out booklet contains descrip—

tions of fourteen dances created by the authors for
class use or program material in the hope that they will
be Of help to the young dancer and of service in supple—
menting the dances used for purely recreational work in
class. All fourteen presented—and directions and dia—
grams are clear and definite—ahave been used with
marked success in class and in indoor and outdoor pro-
grams. They are, therefore, 'tried and proven. '
Music for a number of the dances is available in sep-
arate booklets. For example, for Sing-A-Song, based on
the old nursery rhyme, music by Eunice Steel may be
secured for 50 cents. Original music for Sleeping Beauty
written by Eunice Steel is available at $2.00.

Dependent and Neglected Children

White House Conference on Child Health and Protec-
tion. D. Appleton-Century Company, New York. $3.00.

HIS PUBLICATION coming out of the White House Con—
ference on Child Health and Protection is a declara—
tion Of principles from the Committee on the Socially
Handicapped on the care of dependent and neglected
children in the light Of our present knowledge, resources

544

and problems. It presents new data on subjects about
which there has been little published and discusses meth-
Ods Of attacking problems Of dependency and neglect
which need special emphasis at this time.

Tiny Tower

Catherine McNelis, publisher. Price $.10 a copy.

UNDER THIS TITLE a monthly magazine for younger
children——-pu'blished for children and not about them
-——has made ‘its appearance with the December issue. It is
full of suggestions Of things tO dO—games, puzzles, cut-
outs, picture patches and easily understandable stories.
It is delightfully illustrated. The magazine, which is
published by Tower Magazines, Inc., 4600 Diversey
Avenue, Chicago, may be purchased at selected news-
stands and at Woolworth stores.

Development ot a Leisure-Time

Program in Small Cities and Towns

By Ella Gardner. Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department Of
Labor, Washington, D. C.
IN THIS thirteen page Inimeographed bulletin Miss Gard—
ner suggests the steps involved in setting up a recrea-
tion program in a small city or town, the making Of a
brief study, the appointing of a group tO take charge,
the enlisting Of public support, and ways of starting the
program. A limited number Of COpies are available from
the Children’s Bureau free Of charge.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-PreSident
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice—President
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Seeretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, CarliSle, Pa.
WILIAII BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valle , L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON West range, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEv, New York, N. Y.
HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y. .

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
RODERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDv, Springerld, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittshurgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.

MRS. AMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., WaShington, D. C.
J. C. ALSII, New York, N. Y.

F EDERICK M. WARBURO, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRs. WILLIAM H. \VOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

