HacMun-ay College Libnli

For the Children

WE ARE NOT sure of the future. But we do have the present.

At least while we build for the best future we can we know that the

children must be kept happy. Bread and a bed are not enough. There

must be singing and dancing and games and laughter—for children cannot be chil—
dren in a world without joy and happiness. '-

Now is no time to be yourself if your natural self is dull and drab and list-
less. Rather it is the time to act, to act as if one were alive, as if one were light-
hearted because homes and cities are full of little children.

Now is the time for color. Now is the time for pageantry.

Not to keep our lakes cleared for ice skating, not to secure the maximum use
of our beaches for swimming, not to keep playgrounds open, not to provide lead-
ership for our glee clubs, our orchestras, our drama groups,-——is to show that we
are not thoroughbreds, that we are lacking in the fundamentals, that the stuff is
not in us, that as people we cannot keep a stiff upper lip in adversity——-for always
and everywhere men who were men have placed their children first and have done

their best to keep children free from care, gay and joyous.

Land we have in plenty for play, and of time for leadership there is no
scarcity except as we create it. The cost of music and laughter for children is
largely, though not altogether, in thoughtfulness, in taking pains, in really caring.

Children, however, cannot be happy in an idle world nor in a world of glum
grown—ups. We must provide for activity for ourselves and all grown-ups if we
are truly to keep our children happy.

If we are not willing or able to provide work for all——-then we must give all
a chance to be active in sport, in art, in making things, in make believe, in music,
in living, so that life does not stagnate and make our children old before their time.
Now is the time to keep life enriched—not to make it more barren—because—

Thank God—there are the children! , 
 i HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

APRIL, I934

 

grab/7e 1

 

“
o
n
:1
O
I
:2
.3
LL
'0
c
a
O
h
0‘
>.
.2
Q.
_“
.2
h
«a
Q.
.2
ID
0
Eh
O
0
c
0
.LJ
0
h
:1
O
I
I“
u
0
(I)
<1

 

Volunteer Opportunities
in the

Public Recreation Program

EALLY intelligent service in
health, family, child or
community welfare can

be rendered only by those who
have some understanding and
appreciation of the entire held

ous service in one organiza-
tion. performed in ignorance
of or indifference toward an—
other, defeats even the pur-
poses of the organization in whose name it is
rendered. All are working toward a healthier,
happier, nobler race, but none will accomplish his
purpose unless each sees his place in the common
plan.

\Vith this creed as our fundamental principle,
I shall now for the sake of brevity and clarity
conhne what I have to say to the field of public
recreation, although much that I shall say is
directly applicable to the Y.M.C.A., Y.\V.C.A.,
Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and Settlements, and
could even be applied to other human welfare
services.

voluntce r.

The Philosophy of Public Recreation

Public recreation programs now being con—
ducted in 1,012 cities in the United States are

based upon a simple and sound philosophy which

may be stated briefly:
The child whose life is filled with wholesome,

happy, enriching and ennobling experiences will
form the habit of right thinking, feeling and
doing.

Youth, eager for adventure, will take ita—good
or bade—as his community offers.

A normal boy will throw stones or balls with
equal zest. If his community otters him balls, he
may become the hero of theicollege stadium; if
stones, he may fall into crime.

By CORINNE POND};

At the district conference of the
Junior League held January thc
twcnty-fifth, in Oklahoma City,
, Miss Fondé, the Superintendent
0f 50031 work' A mOSt zeal' of the Recreation Department.
Houston, Tcxas, suggested a num-
ber of channels of service for thc

The normal girl desires admira-
tion, beauty, companionship,
romance. She will respond in
kind to nice parties, artistic
surroundings and chivalry, or
to the temptations of the com-
mercial dance hall or road
house.

Family life is healthy if it
kicks its heels; the family that
plays together stays together.

Young people are safer in their own Circle of
friends, in their own neighborhood where they
are known, than they are where they are not
known. (\Ve all do things among strangers that
we would not do among friends.)

Our common quest as human beings is for
happiness. Happiness makes us healthy, sane,
kind, thoughtful, ambitious, energetic, good
citizens.

All of us—the girl in Shrimp Alley and you
and I—-——need more than food, Shelter, raiment, or
even health. These we must have to live, but we
find our happiness in the wonders and beauties
of our world, in satisfying human relationships,
in wholesome physical exercise, in the expression
of the God-given talents of language, music, art,
drama, and in Civic and religious service.

Ninety percent of us must do a great deal of
plain hard work to .earn our three meals and a
bed, but the man who tends a machine and the
girl who measures and sells ribbons all day, in
so doing exercise only an infinitesimal part of
themselves, and they become damaged human be-
ings unless their community offers them the op—
portunity to express other talents and interests in
their leisure hours.

Dr. L. P. Jacks, the eminent English philoso-
pher and author, who last year toured our coun-
try in the interests of public recreation, says this

3

4 VOL UNTEER OPPORTUNITIES

damaged class represents 60 per cent of our popu-
lation; that they breed faster than the rest of us
and that therefore our neglect of them threatens
to bankrupt our civilization. He goes so far as
to say:

“If Christ should come today, He would soon
be finding His way to the children's playgrounds
and community centers where He would have an
encouraging word to say to the men and women
(of like mind with His own) who are helping
young people to recover the best radiance of His
religion in the joys of creative activity. I think
He would busy Himself first and last with re-
creation."

Dr. Jacks defines recreation as “the re-creation
of something that gets damaged in human beings
—the repair of human damage where it is repair-
able—and the prevention of it in the rising gen-
eration.” He believes, with great health, crime
and mental hygiene authorities, that if cities will
spend more for carefully planned. manned and
equipped re-creation programs, they will spend
far less for corrective clinics, probation work,
jails, criminal courts, hospitals and asylums; that
when we have learned wisdom public recreation
will be as universal as public education, not for
sentimental reasons or as somebody's fad, but be-
cause it is necessary.
to the preservation
of the human race.

Volunteer Service

A program of pub-
lic recreation should

have trained, skilled   I
leadership with high  .

gifts of intelligence, “33%,,m,
of imagination, hu-
man sympathy and
understanding —
“ aristocrats of the
h u m an mind, and
hand and soul."
But the more gift-
ed the professional
recreation leader, the
better he knows the
necessity and im-
portance of wise.
strong citizen back-
iug, the more he
realizes that he must

. , H‘s... "
'l‘tll'l . i".

have and hold a recreation board of high-minded.
public-spirited citizens if he is to have and hold
an adequate program and budget.

If. S. Braucher, Secretary of the National
Recreation Association, stresses the value of such
a group when he says: “There is distinct need
for volunteer associations and cOmmittees to
stand back of the municipal body to help in safe-
guarding budgets and in interpreting the recrea-
tion movement to the public. Such groups. gen-
erally known as recreation councils, are function-
ing in a number of cities and are giving invalua-
ble service in the present crisis."

And here is one of the places where I can see
the Junior League in the picture. As I see it, you
of the privileged group in our cities have the
background and the power to help organize such
councils and make them effective, although their
membership should be representative of all inter-
ests of the city. If this idea appeals to you, I
would advise you to discuss it with your local
recreation executive. Being human we recreation
executives each have our own ideas of organiza-
tion, but we also welcome the perspective of the
lay person, especially when that person is ready
to roll up her sleeves and help.

The second volunteer opportunity that I would

      
 
 
     
  
 
  

. young poo-
plo spend to
much time at the
moving pictures . .

Cantu; Th: Partuu' Meantime, New York

VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES 5

offer you is that of serving as board or committee
member. I think your Leagues can make no
greater civic and social contribution than that of
training your members for intelligent, responsible
board and committee service.

Some recreation departments make use of com-
mittees to sponsor particular branches of their
work such as playgrounds, community centers,
community music, drama, athletics and other ac-
tivities. One of the most effective pieces of com-
mittee work in our Houston Recreation Depart-
ment is that of the Public Relations Committee
whose members assume the simple obligation of
going to see and of taking others to see what is
being done in playgrounds and recreation centers,
and to talk with their friends about it if they find
it worth while.

The third volunteer opportunity I would sug-
gest is that of personal leadership of any group
activity for which you are prepared—girls’ clubs,
boys’ clubs, choruses, glee clubs, athletics. dra-
matics, crafts, story hours. nature hikes. For any
special skill you may have there is a volunteer
leadership opportunity
awaiting you on the
playground ~— a chance

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

and
others
get so much
enioymenf our
of the production
of their own plays?

Where is there to be found a richer field of activ-
ity for the volunteer than that offered by drama?

to broaden your own horizon and to become a
cherished influence in the lives of young people
in the formative period, who are usually less
privileged than you have been.

Special Junior League Services

An outstanding Junior League contribution to
public recreation is being made by your Chil-
dren’s Theater in Houston, and I understand that
other cities are benefiting in the same way. All
dramatic efforts hold tremendous opportunities
for public recreation service, and in the field of
music and art there are similar possibilities. Many
of our musicians find satisfactory audiences in
our community centers. Our Houston artists
hang pictures in our recreation club house, and
one of them has had a very wonderful response
to the creative art class for which she has vol—
unteered. Under C.W.A. we have been able to
employ one of her outstanding pupils who is re-
cruiting for her in neighborhood centers, and she
is now looking forward to the day when she may
have “a municipal art sanctum sanctorum,” as
she calls it, where
the only price of
admission to any
boy, girl, man or
woman, will be the

I desire to create
through the medi-
um of art.

You have artists
and musicians, as
well as dramatic
talent in your
group.

This brings me
to another type of
service which is the
sponsorship of
special public rec-
reation projects
which the munici-
pality is not ready
to undertake.
Think of what it
would mean to a
city for its Junior
League to build a
municipal “sanc-
tum sanctorum”

for creative a rt !
(Continued on page 39)

A Model Aeroplane

Association
and

How ll: Grew

By CHARLES H. ENGLISH

Executive Secretary
Playgrounds and Recreation Association

Philadelphia, Pa.

Adi Till-:th any questions which should be an-

swered by an executive before he considers

launching a community-wide project? Most
assuredly! And if preliminary investigations and
planning are sound, needed confidence is created
that the undertaking can be developed into a work-
able service.

The methods which certain chain stores use in
determining where they shall locate branch stores
are noteworthy. Nothing is taken for granted.
Superficial evidence of nearby competition of ap-
parent concentration of crowds or the influence of
other business houses in the vicinity are not recog-
nized until proved through rigid tests. Some of
their studies seem almost unrelated to the objec-
tive sought. yet when all elements are considered
they can chart the business volume and forecast
trade expectancy for indefinite periods of time.

Since the methods of these commercial groups
have proved successful, might not the same spirit
of research be adopted in the planning done by
recreation workers so that we may he more sure
of our foundation before building a project? \Ve
have all of us been guilty of starting activities
from an impulse; of venturing into the promotion
of projects from emotional urges. \\'e rightfully
covet the spirit of adventure. and we need to re-
spond to human impulses. lioth are often the
genesis of excellent ideas for projects. Instead of
assuring ourselves that ideas formulated in this
manner can be relied upon it is wiser to temper

(i

 

Courtesy Philadelphia Moch Arrarfane Association

"It's thus men climb the stars"

them, before final decisions are made. with in-
vestigation and practical soundness. Forecasting
human behavior responses and activities in the
recreation field are much less certain than in the
business world. Consequently we need to develop

a better technique.

In contemplating the promotion of projects the
following questions may well be asked:

l. Will the project render a genuine service to the
community? Make sure that your premise as to the
need for this service has been indicated by the com-

munity from reliable sources.

2. Is the community ready for its reception? Discover
the direct or allied interests that may be recruited
for the project. Will these groups be large enough
to launch the movement or does the project require
quantity participation in order to be considered suc-
cessful? If in the beginning the percentage of par-
ticipation is necessarily small. has the project ele-
ntents that would insure continuous growth and
popularity?

3. ls the project essentially educational in character?
If it does not measure up to the more recent con-
cept of educational practices is it likely to gain re-
spect and support from the community?

A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION 7

4. \Vill the project appeal to the general community or
to a restricted population? In case of the latter,
can you justify the higher ratio of per capita ex-
penditure of funds or leadership services?

5. W'ill the project require a budget and the services
of executive leadership which would be in proper
balance to the general program already in operation?

6. \Vill the project provide publicity material which
will be helpful to the local recreation movement?

7. “fill the project require volunteer leadership in ad-
dlthIl to paid staff? If so, have you developed
methods of recruiting and training?

8. How about facility requirements? Are the facilities
readily accessible to your interested public and may
they be used without burdensome fees?

9. Does the project require personal equipment or sup-
plies that are prohibitive to a majority interested?
If so. can a plan be evolved that would lower the
cost to a level within reach of everyone?

10. \Vill the project reflect genuine credit to your or—
ganization?

11. If you are in need of strengthening your department,

will this project serve that ’purpose better than
another?

If the proposed project meets the requirements
of these eleven questions and you have educated
the authorities to whom you are responsible So
that they are friendly to the general idea and have
given their sanction to the plan, then you have
laid a pretty good foundation upOn which to build
a successful activity.

In the development of the Philadelphia Model
Aeroplane Association we applied these questions
as a preliminary test in determining the advisa—
bility of inaugurating the movement. The steps
taken in chronological order were as follows:

The Analysis

The youth of America did as much to develop
the radio as the scientific inventors. Since the suc—
cessful flight of the \Vright Brothers at Kitty
Hawk, youth has been as anxious as adults, or
perhaps more so, to fly in aeroplanes. Youth nnds
in model building the opportunity of experimen-
tation in the fascinating science of aeronautics.
Every boy secretly cherishes the hope he is pre-
paring himself for the time when he can “sit in
the cockpit" and use the “joy
stick" in a man-carrying ship.

Model building is difficult
enough mechanically to chal—
lenge boys to achieve success
and it satisfies those with
mechanistic aptitudes. Another
very important element in this
craft project is that after a
boy has spent hours of study
and workmanship he can “do
something with the .product.”

The Recreation Board of Lincoln,
Nebraska, employs a young man
who has been in commercial avia-
tion to teach model airplane build-
ing in the homes of boys in all
parts of the city. Any group of
boys over twelve years of age may
meet with him regularly in one of
the shops or in their homes. An
advantage of this plan is the con-
tact with the homcs which it af-
fords the Recreation Board.

Experimentally, model building seems to have no
limitations. As long as aeroplanes are flying the
skies, as long as adults manifest such tremendous
interest, as long as boys are told that the “game”
has great possibilities for them. youth will be
genuiner enthusiastic in model aeroplane build-
ing and will accept it as its special Field in the
most fascinating sport of the present day—pro—
vided it has the opportunity to participate in a
well—organized model aeroplane movement.

The project has an impressive array of elements
that make for a successful activity—educational
features, the satisfaction of mechanical urges and
of the experimental and inventive spirit, continued
growth, as the goals are always ahead, sustained
interest without regard to age. occupation of an
amazing number of leisure hours (some models
have taken 1500 hours to complete) and the op-
portunity to test oue's skill in flying models
at tournaments or at non—flying Scale Model

Contests.
Considering that this does not exhaust the list,

will you agree with me that there are few, if any,
projects that have a better chance to develop a fol-
lowing than model aeroplane building.

The Investigation

Determined that our Association should add
model aeroplane building to its services, we sur-
veyed the situation through the following pro-

cedure :

1. We took steps to learn whether there was an interest
in this field and if the youth in our city was or-
ganized into workable units. A commercial concern
had developed a loose organization. Only one high
school was teaching model building. Boys by the hun-
dreds were experimenting in their homes and the sale

of model aeroplane literature was revealing.

2. School authorities agreed to a plan to permit demon-
strations in Junior and Senior High Schools at as-
sembly periods and to encourage teachers to act as
adult leaders for interested students.

3. We surveyed possible facilities for holding indoor

contests and finally gained permission to use the larg-
est Armory in the city on Saturday
afternoons. For outdoor meets we
decided to use an 80 acre tract of
land free from buildings and trees,
located within a reasonable dis-
tance to city transportation fa-
cilities.

4. The next step was to find a
technically trained leader. Should
we select an aviator of reputation,
who would be free to work on a
part-time basis? Should we at-
tempt to secure a leader on a full—
time basis? Full-time employment
was found to be financially pro-
hibitive. The Director of the In-
dustrial Arts Department of the

A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION

Achievements to date: Three important or-

      9. ganizations had agreed to be co-sponsors ot

the project, each assuming definite re5pon-

IS          sibilities as follows: publicity, direction of
   j I all contests and general organization and

direction of the movement. The schools had
agreed to permit demonstrations and organi-
zation of groups. We had selected a tech-
nical director to be known as Field Di-
rector. Facilities for indoor and outdoor
contests had been secured. A membership
supply store had been planned. And we had
determined there was a genuine need for
such a service.

Then came the problem of finance. The
Playgrounds and Recreation Association
3 (L of Philadelphia was lending the services

of its executive secretary and office secre-
tary and could do no more. The Aero Club mem-

  

Philaddphia schools recomngended 3h? bonllciil high hers were unable to provide a budget. The news-
school teacher who was teac ing mo e ui ing as . . ' a

an extra curriculum subject That teacher reprc_ paper, the third sponsor, had already shown an
sented just what we wanted, a man who knew how unusually generous attitude. \Votild it come to the
to instruct, oneowho was very enthu513§llF, and,‘" rescue? Its officials provided the needed budget
addition was a licensed pilot. He was Willing to in- .

struct and demonstrate to groups during after-school 311d have Continued to do so for the past Five years.

periods and to accept evening assignments. He was
to be paid for services on a per assignment basis.

We found that the materials used in building models

The Organization of the Philadelphia Model

were very expensive, in fact prohibitive, for a ma- Aeroplane Association
jority of boys. \Ve determined to overcome this . o o o o .
handicap by establishing a model aeroplaneostorezéo/r The Ass0c1ation is organized into units known
members only. By pricing materials at 2 to co ,- - - ”
above wholesale lists we were able to pay the rental as chapters with a minimum of ten and not mom.
of the small store room and employ a storekceper. than fifteen members. Each chapter must have an
Til“ Sior'ikecper Rica“! “'35 a liming ma" ‘" 59m“ adult leader over tweiitv-one vears of age known
high school who was the outstanding model builder v d
in the city. He would give valuable advice as well 115 the SPOIMOT- A Sponsor can. Of course. iii-“(1
‘13 functioning as lhc Storekecper- more than one chapter under his jurisdiction; in
Thc "3W"? “'35 ‘9 secure a "‘Cdmm 0‘ Sllmulailon fact, he can have as many as it-takes to accommo-
and puhlic information. \Ve approached the news- I I. . Th. 1" _
paper that had the largest circulation, whose ideas on ( ate “5 entire group- C C ml)tcrb are encour"
DmeOéLOH were Corifcfvatlve and wit?“ DOIICJ-r 500m] aged to have officers and JutllOl' leaders similar to
ed to educationa y constructive. he promotioiia , s ,- o -
department was receptive but only after a most carc_ 130} Scout.troops. The age classification is as fol-
ful plan had been presented. The newspaper agreed lows: Junior club members who are twelve years
‘0 “Sign a.r°p°.”°r' 9”“ (ml? .593“ and O" 5a" of age and have not vet attained their sixteenth
days, in eoniunction with an aviation page, to present . , '
drawings and extensive feature articles on the work. birthday. and senior club members. Older boys
The newspaper further agreed not to take credit for from Sixteen to twemvmnw wars of age.
their part in the project. They were willing to be " '
known as one of the sponsors of the movement but i \ \ \ °

 . . 1..' . ‘  . . 111511 5
the usuai blatant credit line in the daily stories was riftmsc Tm 1‘ I i 2 req re. 0 fee,
to be taboo. from its chapters. '1 he only expense involved 15
The members of the Aero Cluh of Pennsylvania that which the chapter itself may require.
were requested to organize a special committee to be .
I’csngOnSlblc for the conduct of all contests of the .Scr‘z'it‘t‘ to Hit‘ Charters. The l‘..\l.:\.r\. em-
.“ el Association. Since the Club was a unit of the , - , . . '
xatioml Aeronautical Association, the tiemp was im_ pl0_\s directors “ho are e.\])crt teachers in the con
pressive. They agreed to be one of the sponsors of strttction and flying of model aeroplanes. These
th°.pr°JCCt and deem! that “ce'l’rcs‘dcm ‘0 be u": leaders are available to meet with chapters when
chairman of the tournament committee. . . . . .

,. . . . organized giving instructions and a demonstra-
“itli this preliminary set-up, the next step was to . , . . .
secure approval of the plan from the Board of tion. The services of these directors are without
Directors of the Playgrounds and Recreation Asso- cost to the chapter.
ciation. suggesting that they become one of the upon- , _ , o . , ,
sors, assuming the responsibility of organization and llie Assonation, in addition, conducts demon-
infect'm‘ 9‘ ll“ 9’0"“ “.WOUM mm!“ “55mm” strations in school assemblies, operates a store,
its executive secretary to direct the Model Assoua- . .
tion, of the office secretary to do the clerical work, to awards puts antl lllcmltcrslllPS. arranges 11101“le
Operate the memltrsllip store and. in general: be m" contests and promotes major tournaments in the

sponsihle for the development of the entire movement.

The plan was adoptch spring (indoor and outdoor) to declare champion-

A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION ' ‘ 9

ships. Further, the Association offers suit-
able awards, acts as a clearing house for
the activities of the chapters, aiding them
in every possible way, maintains an in-
struction class for sponsors each Monday
evening from 7:30 to 9:30, and holds a
training school at the armory. All spon-
sors are invited to attend the instruction
classes, particularly those who have had
no previous experience in model building.

M emberslzfp Classihcalions. There are

three classifications for which a member
may strive and for which he may receive

pins without cost.

1. Student Pin—nicknamed “Grease Monkey.” This
bronze pin, a Wright whirlwind motor and propeller
—is awarded 'by the sponsor after the following tests
have iren passed:

Specifications—KO. G. Class A. .
Requirements—R. O. G. 15 seconds reaching 6 feet

in height
H. L. 30 seconds
Written test—70%

2. Aviator Pin—nicknamed “Pilot”—a silver pin pf the
same design. This is awarded by the field director
for successful performance in the following:

A. Indoor endurance pusher—Class. B, C or D_
Flight of not less than two minutes duration

B. Fuselage—Class B, C or D
Flight of 30 seconds from take off

C. R. O. G.—Class A
Flight of 1% minutes

D. Hydro-aerOplane—Class A or B
Flight of 1 minute

NOTE: An R.O.'G. model may be used by adding
floats

E. Glider—Class A. Correct as to general detail
Glide 50 feet from hand launching
These tests are given twice a month at the training
sessions.

3. Ace Pin—nicknamed "Ace”—a gold pin. This is
given after the following tests have been passed:

In this third and highest award of merit, the in-
tention is to stimulate an enduring interest in the
science of aviation. To this end the member is ex—
pected to read such matter on the subject as will in-
form him of the latest accomplishments in this field.
He is also expected to give a short outline account of
the history of aviation, touching on names famous in
early days of aviation, outstanding events and
achievements in this and other countries to the present
time, types of planes, etc.

The model requirements for this grade, for which
the pin is awarded, are:

A. Indoor flight record of 9%» minutes. Class A,
B, C or D.

B. Outdoor flight record of 4 minutes. Class D,
E or F.

C. Miniature model biplane and monoplane.

Flying scale model—variations permitted—diameter
propeller with compensating landing gear and 10%
increased area empennage surface. The ship must
ascend to a reasonable height, fly smoothly, and glide
downward to a proper landing. Straight flight reach-
ing 5 feet in altitude. Circular flight to the right a
360° turn. Circular flight to the left a 360° turn.

62/

 
 

Wow! SIX OR SEVEN KIDS
BUNCHED FOR THE JUNIOR
#6 MODEL=PLANE LEAD .’

\

SOME DAY YOUR NAME.
WILL BE IN THE PAPER

0. /'
:4 'io
§

/'
/

/

“4} a, (I f

Present the field director with a drawing and repro-
duced photograph of the ship. Drawing should con-
tam suflic1ent dimensions to check the scale.

This test is purposely made very difficult so that
when the member qualifies, it represents the highest
achievement of the Association. It would correspond
to the “Eagle” of the Scouts. Only three “ACE”
pins have thus far been awarded.

NOTE: .Class A,.B,_ C, etc., are those of the National
Aeronautical Assomation classifications.

Adult Sponsors’ Class. Model building is quite
technical. Many of the volunteer sponsors are in-
terested in leading Chapters but lack the knowl-
edge that is helpful in properly developing the
members. A class was instituted, which meets
weekly, and under the guidance' of the field di-
rector sponsors build and fly all of the models re-
quired. Organization problems are discussed as
are the newest devices and methods in both build-
ing and flying.

Solid Scale Models. The Scale Model Division
was organized last October, when the world
famous Franklin Institute recognized the P.M.A.
A. and invited its members to make accurate scale
models for exhibition in the Institute’s Aeronau-
tical Section. The director of this section has re-
quested the members to build 89 (absolutely to
scale) ships covering the first successfully flown
aeroplane down to the present day types. For
each mode] accepted, the builder will receive a

medal from the Institute and have his name placed
on the Honor Roll.

The Scale Model Division offers a challenge to
members to continue in the model work after they
have tired of building flying models, have won
enough honors to satisfy them, or have reached
the age where they consider flying beneath their
dignity. In addition there are always groups of
boys whose interest is in scale model building

(non-flying) and nothing else. Therefore the
Franklin Institute’s request was a most happy

10 A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION

solution to these problems. Other cities may find
it helpful to set up a permanent exhibition in some
museum or other public institution as a stimula-
tion and recognition to those members skilled in
building scale models.

In the ’\eronautical Section of the Franklin
Institute is a section devoted exclusively to RM.
.-\.A. activities. There is a case showing all ma-
terials used in building models and progressive
steps are illustrated in the building of primary
ships. Two cases are full of this year's contest
record ships.

Tournaments and Meets

A contest for Junior members and one for Sen-
ior members are held once a month during the in-
door season. The two groups are combined at the
outdoor contest. The indoor season starts in
November and ends in May. The outdoor season
is September and October and May and june. In
Philadelphia we find the fall outdoor season to be
the best flying weather. The junior and Senior
classifications have each two divisions known as
Division I and Division 2, as follows:

Division l—advanced fliers; Division 2—-—the others.
To advance from #2 to #1 members must make
flights in three different events equal to minimum
flight time Division #1.

Organization of Meets. Members are per-
mitted to register for the meets one hour in ad-
vance of the time set for the meet. The registrar
examines the ships to see that they are up to regu-
lations. The center of the Armory is roped off
and no one is permitted in this space until he has
launched his ship. judges are seated around the
edge of the enclosure. The regis-
trar assigns members to the of-
ficials who are judging certain
type. ships. The afternoon is di-
vided into three 50 minute peri-
ods. A gong is used to announce
the end of such periods. Each
Contestant is allowed three flights
during the meet but he must makt
them during the stated time. This
distributes the flights over the

Philadelphia's experience shows
youth willing to accept modol aero-
plane construction as its special
field in the most fascinating of
present-day sports.

 

entire afternoon. Gas balloons attached to spools
of thread are available to dislodge ships caught in
girders.

At outdoor meets, the difliculty of following
the ships to determine time of flights has been
solved in a fairly successful manner by using a
set of army field phones. The starter signals the
outpost oflicial several hundred yards away when
a ship is launched. The outpost watches the ship
as long as he can see it and then announces. “Out
of sight" or "Down."

\Vith the exception of the scale model contests,
we follow the rules and regulations of the Na-
tional Aeronautical Association.

Awards. At each meet the winners are award-
ed ribbons for the first, second, third and fourth
place. A larger ribbon is awarded the Chapter
which has won the greatest number of points. A
plaque is awarded the Chapter which has won the
greatest number of points for the season. At the
indoor and outdoor championships held in june,
gold. silver and bronze medals are awarded. This
fall the ribbons to be awarded will have unusual
significance. The original cloth on the wings of a
1912 Wright Model [3 aeroplane has been given to
the I’.M.A.A. for such purpose. Many famous

pilots and passengers took flights in this ship 22
years ago.

Training Sessions

At least two Saturday afternoons each month a
training session for novices is held at the Armory.
This plan was inaugurated to overcome two very
serious handicaps: (I ) T 0 give members a chance
to test their ships in a space large enough, since

a!

It‘.‘ll11lf:

§~

 .‘\_ i

@cmuri'ay College Libraw

A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION 11

the ordinary Chapter does not have such facili—
ties; (2) To receive expert criticism and help in
their construction and flying problems. Often
sponsors are unable to render such service and the
novice becomes easily discouraged. \Vith this plan
they are encouraged to greater effort and, in addi-
tion, may do some flying without thought of com-
petition. In the latter part of the afternoon ad—
vanced fliers may also use the armory for tests
and experimental flying.

A very important factor in the success of this
plan is the type of instruction given. W’e selected
thirty of the most skilled Senior members of the
Association to serve as an lnstructors’ Corps. All
thirty are record holders and as such have the re—
spect of the entire membership. These boys feel
it an honor to be selected and they know how to
teach and do a better job
than do most adults! Each

of a division among the leaders that was salutary.
Therefore we reorganized, and the boys now have
an advisory group of eight members who meet
with the director and field director. Their recom-
mendations are presented to the sponsors’ advis-
ory group of eight members, who in turn present
their findings to the Executive Committee. The
latter is made up of the director, the two field
directors, the scale model director and the con—-
test registrar. The Executive Committee is the
final court of appeal in all matters of controversy
and in the formulation of the policies of the As-
sociation. Such a plan acts as a balancing wheel.
It has worked splendidly.

Educational Demonstrations

Recruiting of the membership is largely focused
on the demonstrations given
at school assemblies. The

member is given his car fare
for each session attended.
The corps is divided into
two squads. One squad re-
ports on a certain given Sat-
urday of the month and the
other at another training
session. The field director
is in general charge of the
sessions and uses this op-

So great has been the demand for entire
sets of the plans issued in the sponsor-
ing newspaper that a 60-page booklet
was published eontaining 126 seale
drawings with full instruetions for
building sixteen ships—elementary in-

.door planes, advaneed indoor planes,

and outdoor planes. In addition it con-
tains other praetieal information on
eonstruetion, and the national flying
reeords. The fifth edition of this book
will be available about May first from
the Playgrounds and Reereation Asso-

associate field director, a
successful sponsor and a
supervisor of one of the
largest recreation centers of
the city, is available for
school assembly addresses
up to 2:30 P. ‘M. daily. A
typical demonstration is as
follows:

A few minutes is devoted

portunity to give demon-
strations. He also gives
tests to candidates for Avi—
ator and Ace classifications. This rather simple
scheme is one of the best educational projects we
have discovered.

Advisory Council

In any volunteer leadership organization it is
sound practice to seek the advice of the men and
women who are directing the work. They right-
fully feel that they should have an opportunity to
make suggestions to the management, or, at least,
have a medium through which they can express
their dissatisfaction or offer helpful criticism.

Our first advisory group was comprised of four
sponsors and four leaders among the boys, to-
gether with the administration officers. The idea
in having the boys in the council was to secure
their point of view. This scheme did not work
out because in the presence of the adult leaders
the boys were not so free to express their real
thoughts, moreover, the differences of opinion
among the adults often gave them an impression

eiation, 1427 Spruee St., Philadelphia.

to the subject of what the
P.M.A.A. is, how it serves
members and when and
how the students may join. During the talk the
director is unpacking his kit of ships. Next he
shows the various materials used in building
models. This is followed by the actual flying in
the auditorium of the primary ships, i.e., R.O.G.,
Tractor, Fuselage and Gliders. The flying of the
ships is always enthusiastically received. Then a
demonstration of a compressed air motor is given,
followed by the famous Brown-Bassett gasoline
motor. The climax of enthusiasm is reached when-
this midget motor, weighing only 7 ounces and
which turns a 9% inch propeller over 2,500 times
a minute, is tuned up. (The international record
of 28.18 minutes was made with this motor.) At
the end of the demonstration there is invariably a
strong demand to join the P.M.A.A. In fact,
nearly all of our Junior and Senior High Schools,
and some grade schools, have Chapters, some as
many as ten. Each year new stunts are developed
so that principals have no hesitation in scheduling

(Continued on page 41)

OT long ago an item appeared in a New York
newspaper headed “\Vould Banish Lone-

liness, Organizes Young People’s Club
to Offer Chance for Friendship.”

moter explained his purpose thus:

“Since the city is made up so largely of people who
have come from other places to pursue careers, loneliness
seems to have been the Inevitable lot of many fine girls

and men who at the end of the day's work have found
themselves too often without friends and acquaintances."

To relieve this situation he had a scheme that
offered membership in a social club with a pro-
gram of regular dances at which new members
would be introduced to old members and a
20 per cent surplus of men would always en-

sure a stag line and a consequent absence of
wall flowers. A social paradise!

The pro-

A later newspaper account described the
first dance. There was a good attendance but
it included so many odd personalities that the
reporter had a perfectly enjoyable time poking
fun at the whole affair. Needless to say noth-
ing more has been heard of the venture.

just after the \Var a similar project was
tried out in New York City. Candidates for
membership filled out application forms giving
data upon schooling, occupation and the lo-
cality applicant came from as well as the
names of three character references. If corre-
spondence with the latter
brought evidence of nominal

By CLARENCE ARTHUR PERRY

RusselLSage Foundation

without introductions. Names could then be
exchanged voluntarily and any girl desiring
to know more about her floor partner could
obtain it by resorting to an indexed drawer
wherein the personal data supplied by the
members were filed. It looked like a promising
scheme and it actually ran for a couple of
seasons.

The difficulties, however, began with the
efforts to recruit members. The men, especially,
wanted to “look the bunch over” before sign-
ing up. Accordingly a system of guest invita-
tions was devised which enabled certain young
men to obtain a preliminary taste of the club’s
program. \Vhat happened was that “many
were called” but comparatively few elected to
become members, and those who did were not
of the most attractive type. Girls were easier
to get, but again those who sought the club’s
privileges included many whose loneliness was
obviously due to personality defects rather
than a lack of social opportunity. As time
went on the socially handicapped of both sexes
began to predominate in the membership. They
most needed the Club. Naturally they flocked
to it. But in doing so they gradually destroyed
its drawing power for any other class. Finally
they themselves began to stay away. The Club

did for a time produce an
income sufficient for current

respectability, the candidate
was admitted, upon paying
the membership fee.

The main activity of the
Club was a weekly dance in
a central, well-appointed ho-
tel. In the ballroom, accord-
ing to a special rule of the
organization, invitations to
d a n c e could be extended

12

In this article Mr. Perry ofl'ers a
plan which recreation workers and
all leaders who are seeking a
remedy for the ills of loneliness so
prevalent in our large cities will
find stimulating. Mr. Perry will be
glad to receive comments on his
suggested plan. Have you had ex-
perience which would throw light
on the praetieahility of the plan?
llere is an Opportunity for worth-
while disenssion on a vital prob-
lem. Let us hear from you.

expenses but it never brought
in enough to carry the re-
quisite overhead staff.

Problems Involved

The Fundamental Difficulty.
Any club or organization

devoted specifically to the
cure of loneliness is bound
eventually to acquire, front

ACHIEVING SATISFACTOR Y COMPANIONSHIP 13

its very clientele, an unprepossessing reputa-
tion. True—not every solitary individual is
odd. Some lonely persons are merely unac—
quainted, but of those who are isolated be—
cause of some personal unattractiveness or
lack of significance, the number is woefully
large. To any institution set up to increase
social opportunity, they are sure to swarm'in
multitudes. This class, rather than the merely
strange, will determine its reputation. They
themselves will finally flee from it. Manifestly,
organized help for the lonely must employ
some indirect method.

\Vhen we look at the causes of loneliness
more closely, it is fairly evident that it may
result from either one or both of two condi—
tions:

(1) Lack of acquaintances due to recent
arrival in a particular locality. This deficiency
of social contacts is easily corrected by arrang—
ing gatherings at which introductions can take
place.

(2) Personality shortcomings which pre—
vent appreciation and response by other in—
divuals. This is the more frequent cause of
loneliness and the most difficult to remove.
People in this class may have many acquain—
tances but they actually have few real friends
or close cOmpanions. For them the remedy
is some process which will enrich, or increase
the signiliance of, their personalities.

Of course there are many cases of compara—

tive isolation in which
both causes are opera—
tive. Such persons enjoy
a superficial social life
but have no intimate or
deep relationships. Oft-
entimes these individu-
als have latent qualities
which, to be brough t
out, need only contact
with complementary per-
sonalities. For them aid
may come fr0m any
scheme th a t either ex—
tends their acquaintance—
ships or sharpens and
develops their social as—
sets.

“B e c o m e somebody
and the world will make

Courtesy Boston } . W. L. A.

a place for you!” This is a good slogan but it
does not tell how to do the trick. Essentially
the process of becoming “somebody” is that of
developing an asset or ability that gives sat-
isfaction to others. A person might be a veri—
table dumb-bell and yet become an object of
interest to his associates merely by learning
to play the mouth organ. Then he would have
something to give them. Ability to entertain,

of any sort, is sound currency in society the
world over.

Personality Defects. What are some of the
commonest shortcomings that affect an indi—
vidual’s popularity? Obviously the first to be
mentioned are those related to personal ap-
pearance such as uncleanliness of body or
clothing, a faulty complexion, squinting eyes,
an ungainly gait, or unsuitable clothes'.

Manners show the whole personality in ac-
tion. They can be as repelling as a foul breath
or dirty ears. Similarly a person’s speech ex;
hibits his mind in action. The sentiments ex—
pressed may reflect a warm heart but if they
are wrapped in slovenly diction their winsome
effect may be lost. “Nothing to say” when
the situation requires conversation is another
shortcoming that holds many individuals back
socially.

A more subtle effect upon social opportunity
is exercised by a person’s bearing. By his mien
a man discloses the success or the failure of
his life’s purposes. Through the gait, the pos—

 

14 ACHIEVING SATISFACTORY COMPANIONSHIP

ture, the expression of the countenance, the
glint in the eye, or some combination of these,
an individual's spirit looks out and reveals to
the observant person secrets of the most fun-
damental import. By the “look” of a man we

reach instantly conclusions as to what he
really is.

Applying Remedies

llere and there one sees an individual who
effects a cure apparently unaided. I remember
a girl who brought happiness into her rather
humdrum life by simple but deliberate means.
She was once a rather stiff, pallid creature who
had little to 'say and seldom “went out.” Then
she formed a plan. She joined a “gym” class
for women. Gradually she became supple, her
carriage improved, and color came into her
cheeks. Next she entered a dancing class.
Then she began to look for ideas about dress.
Presently she was attending many parties run
by a set of which she was a member by virtue
of the social qualities she had acquired.

\Vhat inspired her plan? Where did she get
the ideas she carried out? Some people have
the good fortune to receive a training for so-
cial life from their parents. They are born into
an atmosphere redolent with chat about dress
and the latest doings of society. But this girl,
like the majority of us, came from humble
circumstances, and in addition she had re-
ceived the kind of upbringing that frowns upon
“worldly pleasures.” \Vhen she went out to
work, however, Fate was kind to her. She
happened to enter an organization whose staff
members were keen about leisure-time activi-
ties and from them she received both inspira-
tion and ideas.

The problem is, what organized effort can
be made to afford to the many that competence
in social adjustment which is generally the
heritage of the few?

It is evident that the first need is a new kind
of individual counsel service. If a person is ill,
his nerves apprise him of the fact and he seeks
a physician. But he may be entirely uncon-
scious of his personality defects and have no
relative or acquaintance with the ability or the
courage to bring them to his attention. l rc-
member a young woman who had a rather con-
spicuous separation between two front upper
teeth. They gave her countenance an odd,

somewhat comic aspect. It was remarked of
her that “she parted her teeth in the middle.”
Many years, vitally important to her marital
destiny, passed before she realized the injury
to her social opportunities being wrought by
this dental defect and had it corrected.

Few people, especially in the cities, exhibit
the grosser forms of uncleanliness nowadays.
The purveyors of soaps, toilet preparations and
cosmetics, with the help of advertising, have
done much to make human bodies clean. The
care of women’s hair and skin has apparently
become an elaborate commercial technique.
There are, however, in both sexes, many in-
dividuals whose companionship would become
much more enjoyable it' they could have, and
would follow, some individual advice about
their finger nails, fresh collars, and other
phases of a refined toilet. But where can the
average individual get that kind of intimate
advice—especially when he may not suspect
that he needs it?

Generally each personality defect requires a
particular remedy For unsightly teeth one
goes to the dentist. For a bad complexion you
may need either medicine, hygienic counsel or
special forms of exercise. To secure the kind
of suit pattern that best sets off the figure, you
need an elementary knowledge of color and
the effects of lines and masses. If your diction
is bad, a course in public speaking or acting is
indicated. It is only through a diagnosis of
his particular case that the average individual
can discover just which remedies he should
apply. In a word. a social guidance service
must be established.

After the individual has been given the “once-
over" by an expert in personality development
and a prescription has been written to meet
his peculiar needs, then treatment can begin.
Many of the surface failings can be taken care
of by the dentist, the doctor and the various
commercial services. But for the deeper and
more fundamental defects the only adequate
remedy will consist of courses of formal in-

struction.
Through instruction and practice in dancing,

ungainliness in carriage can be corrected and
body weight reduced. Conversational ability
will be increased by the study of literature,
history and current events. Girls with slender
means will be able to choose their gowns more

ACHIEVING SATISFACTORY COMPANIONSHIP

The socio oppor-
tun ties inherent
in play hours and
various forms of
mixed recreation
are very real.

 

Courtesy Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Recreation Commission

intelligently after a course in dress designing.

Probably the most fundamental matter for
any human being is the solution of his voca-
tional problem. \Vhen he Ends the work that
affords an outlet for his particular abilities or
capacities, then his whole outlook upon life
improves. He acquires a self-confidence that
is reflected in his mien, his conversation and
his relations with others. It means the attain-
ment of one of life’s great objectives.

The extent of the aid to a satisfactory occu—
pation that is available in the extension courses
offered by colleges and universities needs no
elaboration here. Thousands of young men
and women have already proved their value
and the same door is open to thousands more.

A Three-Fold Program

Our program for helping the lonely then
consists of three things:

1. Opportunities to make new acquain—
tances.

2. A social guidance service offering indi-
vidual counsel about personality defects and
the ways of removing them.

3. Courses of instruction designed to help
the individual (a) overcome his personality de-
fects, (b) increase his ability to entertain and
give pleasure to others and (c) strengthen his
capacities as a worker and as a member Of
society.

These measures, it will be readily observed,
are in the main of an educational character, a
fact which immediately suggests that they
should be carried out by an educational insti—

tution. Fortunately most of our cities now
possess municipal colleges, many of which have
large extension departments. The opportuni-
ties they are now offering do much to extend
and deepen the social relationships of their
students but, it is believed, this important
phase of college life could be strengthened and
it could be made available to larger numbers
of young men and women. The plan now to
be presented has been aimed at precisely those

objectives.

Main Features of the Plan. At the 0 u t s e t it
should be emphasized that extreme care should
be taken in the presentation of this plan to the
public. If it became labeled “for the lonely
ones” the plan would be instantly killed. As a
matter of policy, the social motive might well
be kept under cover and the motive of bring—
ing in new students be the announced objective
whenever public reference is necessary.

Externally, the scheme involves the setting
up of a weekly (or bi-weekly) occasion in a
large gymnasium or hall of a college or univer—
sitv to which might be given the name “\Veek—
1y 'Assembly.” To these occasions two classes
of persons would be invited: (1) enrolled stu-
dents and (2) selected lists of outsiders. The
admission to these affairs would be free, but
upon the basis of invitation. They would not
be “public” occasions.

At each assembly the prOgram would con—
sist of two parts: (1) an entertainment and (2)
a play period. The first part would be com-
posed of various numbers put on by different

16 ACHIEVING SATISFACTORY COAIPANIONSHIP

classes or groups connected with the univer-
sity. These might include the college glee
club, orchestra, banjo club, little theatre group,
the class in interpretative dancing, a calis—
thenic drill, a skit or an act by the little theatre
group, a reading by a student from the public
speaking department or from the class in die—
tion, or a fashion show put on by the millinery
or dressmaking class. Any form of presenta-
tion which would entertainingly display an ac-
tivity of the university would be in order. The
components of this program would not need to
be finished or of a high artistic quality. Need-
less to say, they should be interesting.

This would be an especially good occasion for
original vaudeville skits. They
might be definitely promoted

years a regular feature of the Recreation Con-
gress held under the auspices of the National
Recreation Association.

The social Opportunities connected with
these mixed games are very real. A couple
who have been chance partners in a folk dance,
in a free game, or in a Paul Jones, and who
have mutually enjoyed the brief contact, can,
if they so desire, continue to associate after
the games are over. If there was no mutual
attraction, the momentary contact need not re—
sult in an acquaintanceship.‘

Following the games or the dancing, there
might be a short period for conversation or
gen eral sociability when those so inclined

could purchase light refresh-

by the dramatic and English
departments and deal with triv-
ial college doings or live ques-
tions of the day. The cartoon
has come to be recognized as
an effective instrument of dis-
cussion. Why should not the
university deliberately encour-
age the student body to use
the skit in the same way? It

Readers of RECREATION concerned
with the problem which M r. Perry
outlines will welcome the an-
nouncement of a forthcoming pub-
lication “Partners in Play” which
suggests the activities which young
men and women can enjoy tOgcther
in their leisure time, and tells what
is being done in a number of cities
to meet the need. This booklet will
be ready for distribution about

April 15th. Price $.75.

ments t h r o u g h a cafeteria
service.

Controlling the Attendance.
All persons would be admit-
ted to the assemblies upon
the presentation of a card
bearing the holders n a m e.
Students would have a card
of one color, the in vi t e d

g u e s t s a card of another
color.

is a method of_ treating con-

troversial subjects that exhibits tolerance and ur-
banity. It shows ever so much more culture than
a hat-smashing nielee on the library steps.

The play hour would follow the entertainment
and would be conducted by a skilled leader,
accustomed to handling large groups in indoor
games. For occasions of this sort, there is now
a special repertory of “ice—breaker” ga m es.
(The George H. Doran Company, 244 Madi-
son Avenue, New York City, publish a series
of books by Edna Geister, giving full informa-

tion about games of this sort. Another helpful
book is "Games and Game Leadership” by Charles

F. Smith, published by Dodd. Mead & Com-
pany, New York City. The National Recrea-
tion Association has a number of booklets and
bulletins.) By means of these "mixing" games
large c'ro w ds of men and women can be
brought into active exercise and exhilarating
pursuits without change of costume or physi-
cal discomfort. Sometimes such games can be
interlarded with simple folk danc'ing. They

might end with brief periods of social dancing.
l’lay hours of this sort have been for several

The guests front the out-
side should constitute about one half of those
present and could be selected in several ways.
For example, lists of clerks in a department
store or a bank or an insurance company
could be obtained and invitations sent out to
a determined number. An effort would be
made to include mainly the newer and young-
er employees.

The invitations would announce that the
university was holding a weekly “at home" to
which it was inviting its friends. Mention
might be made of the kind of program which
would be offered. \Vith the invitation there
might be two cards, one of which would be-
come the bearer's admission card. once it had
been filled in by him with his name and been
stamped by way of authentication at a vesti-
hule oflice of the hall at the time of his first
attendance at an assembly. The second card
would also be filled out by the guest. giving
his name, address and any other bits of infor-
mation about him which might be desired, and
would be turned in by hint at the time his

bearer’s card was authenticated.
(Continued on pngr 45')

An Orthopedic Playground

OR A NUMBER of years sum-
I F mer playgrounds operated as
a unit of the public school
system have constituted a large part of the recre-
ational facilities of St. Louis. In the summer of
1933, the Board of Education, assisted by private
philanthropy, established at its two orthopedic
schools health and recreational centers to provide
for the needs of those children who, because of
their crippled condition, could not walk to and
from the district playgrounds, or who might by
unrestricted play at those places undo the results
of the surgical treatment and corrective exercise
they had been given during the winter term. Ar-
rangements were made for bus transportation, the
use of the equipment of the buildings and yards
of the St. Louis orthopedic schools, the services
of attendants for children who needed them, and
supervision in health and guidance in play by peo-
ple experienced in handling crippled children. In
both instances, the personnel was composed of
members of the staffs of the respective schools
who had, during the winter session, devoted con-
siderable attention to recreational and creative
aspects of the work.
As soon as a decision to

By JAMES A. SCOTT

and possibilities revealed them-
selves.

To the Turner Playground first
were assigned one leader experienced in dramatics
and handwork with older children, one experienc—
ed in music and handwork with smaller children,
one equipped as a manual training teacher, a
physiotherapist and supervisor of health, a chauf—
feur, an attendant to prepare the children for the
physiotherapist and care for their physical needs,
and a director. As their contribution to the experi-
ment these workers served at salaries much below
those of the winter term. Among the children with
whom they worked were fifteen crippled by in-
fantile paralysis, nine by spastic paralysis, six by
severe forms of rickets, live by accidents, two by
arthritis, two by tuberculosis of the bone, one by
congenital deformity of the feet, and one by
chronic infection of the left foot. Medical author-
ities felt that it was to the health interests of all
of these children to play under the supervision of
those who understood their physical'limitations.

Objectives

The Turner School staff, after a careful analy-
sis of their situation, agreed
upon ten objectives which

attempt the project was
reached, the principals of
the Michael School, which
cares for the crippled white
children of the city, and of
the Turner School, which
cares for the crippled col-
ored children of the city,
were called to assist in
launching the experiment.
Two weeks were spent in
formulating the general aim
of the centers, perfecting
the details of organization
and drafting a tentative
prospectus of activities. All
concerned recognized, how—
ever, the desirability of elas-
ticity in the program and
the necessity for constant
revision as new interests

This article was prepared by a young
Negro, James A. Scott, who is principal
of the Turner School for Handicapped
Children in St. Louis. Great credit is
due the Board of Education, especially
one of its members, Mrs. Elias Michael,
together with Mr. Gerling, Superintend-
ent of Schools, for providing the means
for trying out the eXperinlent. It is in-
teresting to note that Mr. Scott was
graduated from the University of Kan-
sas with Phi Beta Kappa honors, has his
Master’s degree from Harvard, and has
done post-graduate work at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota and Ohio State
University.

It is our opinion that anner School
offers a unique experiment in the special
education of several types of physical
handicaps in one group which points
the way quite definitely for communi-
ties of 100,000 or less.

Alberta Chase, Executive Secretary,
Missouri Society for Crippled Children.

they felt should serve as
ideals of attainment. These
were as follows:

1. That every child enjoy
himself throughout the day, un-
embarrassed by the conscious-
ness of handicap which results
from attempts at feats beyond
his physical prowess or from a
social environment the attention
of which is focused almost ex-
clusively upon his weakness.

2. That the ideal of health be
so firmly established on the
grounds that children will at
any time cheerfully leave any
recreative activity in which they
are engaged to go to rest, to
corrective exercise, tank exer-
cise, shower, or clinic, and will
in like Spirit follow the sugges-
tions of the supervisor of
health in regard to diet.

3. That information in regard
to the medical history and pres-
ent physical condition of each
child be secured by the leader

l7

18 AN ORTHOPEDIC PLAYGROUND

from the supervisor of health. and the play program be
unobtrusively superivsed with due regard to the facts
thus obtained.

4. That the play program of each child be modified
from time to time in accordance with variations in his

physical condition as reported by the supervisor of
health.

5. That daily periods be allotted to applications of the
principles of musical therapy as a measure of mental
hygiene.

6. That every effort be made to give each child inter-
ests and skills in desirable modes of recreation now
present in his out-of-school environment and commen-
surate with his physical and mental capacities.

7. That recreational skills and interests which will con-
tinue throughout life be initiated and developed.

8..T.h.a.t a number of forms of recreation possessing
possibilities of incorporation into the program of the
regular school term be tried out on the playground.

9. That each child be given'daily the therapeutic thrill
of success—a thrill productive of the sort of assurance
in his ability to achieve which gives one the social courage

tc} enter self-confidently group activities of community
li e.

10. That the exploration of the child's potentialities
for self-expression and the development of individual
abilities through creative art be a fundamental aim of the
project.

The Program

After these objectives had been accepted as
basic to the summer’s work, a tentative program

 

 

 

 

 

Turner Playground Schedule of Activities

embodying as far as possible the principles in-
volved was prepared. On the first day of the ses-
sion a meeting of all the children was called and
the program submitted to them for criticism and
suggestion. This was done (I) because the chil-
dren were already somewhat experienced in
school government, having participated largely in
the administration of the institution during the
regular term, and could, therefore, give valuable
advice; and (2) because the staff realized that if
the project was to succeed the initial program
must be expressive of the present interests of the
particular boys and girls with whom they were to
deal. At this assembly were voiced some frank
expressions of the points of view of childhood. Of
particular interest was the insistence of the larger
boys upon two daily periods of modified indoor
baseball rather than the one period proposed by
the staff. In the light of the criticisms thus re-
ceived the schedule was then re-written so that in
its second stage it was composite of the thought
and experience of the superintendent’s office and
the staff and the interests of the children. When
put into operation. it was as follows:

 

-—-._ . -————-—-—--

 

   

     
   
 

sical games for

and individualdren: clay-modelling.
smaller chil-

—-ior larger making. weaving. art.

   
   

 

 

     

  

  
  
   

 
  
  
   
  

  
  

 

  

 

V3 SC’

     
  
   

    
   
    
 
 
    
 

   

   

    

 

   

ll—llt30 “:30—12— 12—1230] 12:30—1 l—Z:l$ 2:15—3 I 3—3:]5
Music and mu-Music—group llandwork for smaller chil- Story-telling Games for Quiet games

    
   

 
    
  
  

  
   
   

and prepara-
tion for bus.

smaller chil-
dren.

for smaller
children.

    
 
 

     
 
  
   
 

   

       

   

   

 
   
  
  
 

   

       
   
 

 

  
 

   
  

   
   
 

 

Lnoza I drenn. Junior children. Sen- .3";
Orehestra ior Orchestra
practice. practice. —
llandwoyk for Dramatics for Games (indoor and out-of. llandwork. Games for Quiet games
luau 2 larger gtrla: larger ehildren. doors) for larger girls. Nature-study larger girls. and pre-para-
‘ s e w i n g and (Sometimes club. heel for bus.
clay modelling.oombioed with
group in
music.)
Modified in- Art and wood- Recreational reading for Lunch Manual train- Indoor base- Quiet games
Luna! 3 door baseball work for small- larger children. ing art for hall for larger and prepara-
for larger er boys and ' larger boys. boys. tion for bus.
boys. girls. tau-*-
_Hm . . . I
l’nrsio- \s .1" “era,” m gank, Muscle training in orthopedic gymnasium.
TiIIZIAftST' mm—s—u-W“ M
Arrasossr Aui'unc.‘ Wm: Ch“ '1'" in am“- supfrvision of Supervision Assistance with children In orthOpedtc
' ' Supervision of showers. rest for of rest nymnasium. Superirision of shots-era.
eit'ic individ- for all
uals. children
Cn‘unw. Assistance with larger boys in tank. Making and Assistance with larger .boys ln ortho-
' repairing crutches and wheel-chairs. pedie gymoasium. Repairing crutches and
wheel-chairs.

 

 

' Each child received from the physiotherapist. who was also supervisor of health. assignment of periods for water exercise. corrective

exercise in the orthopedic gymnasium, shower. or extra rest.

at" 4‘E-L_ r-1==I. — - - - —

Attaining the Objectives

As soon as the schedule had been tentatively
adopted. the problem became one of attempting to
realize the ten fundamental objectives of the tertn
through the activities outlined. No rigid assign-
ments were made. While opportunity for partici-
pation in every activity listed was available. the
children were at all times given freedom in de-
ciding what they wished to do. For instance. dur-
ing the primary story-telling period the child

 

——-—

 

 

might either join the group in the front of the
room and listen to a story. or tell one. or he might
play checkers. paint. draw. weave. work a jig-
saw puzzle or do any one of a number of other
things for which material was distributed about
the room. The only restriction was that he play
within supervisory distance of his leader. The
aim. of course. was to have the story-telling suf-
ficiently attractive to make him anxious to par-
ticipate; btit unless it was so. he was not pressed

AN ORTHOPEDIC PLAYGROUND 19

to join. The same principle applied to other parts
of the program. If a leader felt that one activity
was receiving too much of a child's time and an-
other too little, the procedure was to find and in-
ject into the neglected activity elements of interest
which would divert the energies of the child into
the desired channels———and wait. Such intense in-
terest in manual training, for example, developed
among the larger boys during the fourth and fifth
weeks of the session that they preferred spending
the afternoon in the shop to going out for base-
ball. They were, of course, permitted to remain.

Its was the consensus of opinion among group
leaders that the objectives of the playground were
realized to a very great degree through simple
games which occupied a large portion of each day.
In the course of the session forty-two games were
played, all of them taken from forms of recreation
popular in the adult and child life of the outside
community. This selection was based on the fun-
damental thesis that the home and playground ex-
periences of the child should be a continuum of
living, that educators should work for a coales-
cence of life in the two institutions which would
prevent the all-too-prevalent compartmentaliza-
tion so disintegrating to personality. The play
leaders felt that one of the most important phases
of the work was to take the recreationally malad-
justed child temporarily out of the normal en-
vironment in order to return him adjusted to it.
The children were not to be prepared to play with
other physically handicapped children but with
normal ones. They were to be so guided at the
Turner Center that they could fit more happily
into the regular pastimes of their brothers and
sisters at home so that the latter would have to
make the least possible number of concessions to
the incapacities of their handicapped playfellows.

Game Leadership

With this purpose in mind, the playground
corps approached the leadership of games. It
was their hope to achieve three very specific re-
sults. In the first place, a number of children
whose medical prognoses indicated they could
never compete with normal children in the play—
ing of certain games, were nevertheless given the
experience of playing those games in modified
form in order that they might later have the vicar-
ious pleasure of witnessing them or of hearing or
reading about them. For some of the children
baseball and tennis fell in this category. Consid-
ering the fact, however, that even the physically

normal American generally enjoys his baseball
from the bleachers, or in front of the radio, or
behind the newspaper, the crippled child is under
little handicap here. The only essential is that he
be given a chance to participate to the extent that
he gets a “feel” of the game as a background for
future appreciation. The intense desire of the
children to play baseball and tennis was, of course,
an additional reason for allotting modified forms
of those games a prominent place on the schedule.

Perhaps a word as to the method used in
adapting the more strenuous sports to the capaci-
ties of the children would be appropos at this
point. Early in its experience the staff discovered
that stereotyped modifications of games “for
crippled children” were on the whole unsatis-
factory. The procedure of each leader was, there-
fore, to adjust the game to the limitations of the
particular group under his guidance rather than
to crippled children in general. Knowing the
physical condition of each child as revealed by
records in the office of the supervisor of health,
and knowing thoroughly the game to be played,
the leader proceeded to change the rules in such a
way as to conserve fully the essence of the game
and at the same time to give the boys and girls
opportunity for competition at the maximum of
their abilities. In this matter, too, the children
helped. It was their part to consult the supervisor
of health at frequent intervals, to receive from
her advice as to the amount and kind of physical
activity desirable at their stage of improvement,
and to follow that advice. The leader, of course,
knew what advice had been given and inconspicu-
ously checked the responses of the children. This
technique, it was felt, provided training in a nat-
ural life situation.

Besides trying to make the play a basis for
future appreciation as well as present fun, the
staff concentrated its energies upon achieving a
second specific aim. This was to study the abili-
ties of individual children as they manifested
themselves from day to day and to stimulate
wherever possible the development of talents
which, while they would not enable the Children
to enter unreservedly into certain common forms
of recreation of present day life, would neverthe—
less fit them to participate in special capacities.
For example, one boy with withered legs but keen
eye and clear judgment acquired considerable
skill as an umpire. Another with a penchant for
the piano'was encouraged to play dance music.
The feeling was that these children would be

20 AN ORTHOPEDIC PLAYGROUND

welcomed in such specialized capacities of the out-
side environment not because they were crippled
and could do nothing else, but because they could
function extremely well in a necessary part of a
pleasurable activity. The experience of the Tur-
ner School has been that normal children-—par-
ticularly those of high school age—will cordially
receive into their groups crippled children of
pleasing disposition and specific abilities. Boys
and girls of this type would thus beconte “insid-
ers" where hitherto they had wistfully lingered on
the outskirts of their comrades’ good times.

The third specific result which the staff mem-
bers strove to realize during the periods of sport
was to have the children develop skill and initia-
tive in a number of games in which they could
compete on comparatively equal terms with other
children. \Vork on this point was of necessity
with the individual. It was found that certain
children had never participated in certain games
because at tlte time they tried to learn them, their
handicap had placed them at a disheartening dis-
advantage, but that with not too great expenditure
of energy they could, on a special playground, be
brought up to a level of proficiency which would
eliminate this period of initial awkwardness.
Another practice in this connection was to teach
the child a number of interesting games not known
in his neighborhood and to encourage him to in-
troduce them. Considerable headway, it was felt,
was thus ntade in helping him overcome the social
barriers of his out-of-school enviromtment. As a
matter of fact, the enthusiasms of the grounds
overflowed into the homes. Physically normal
children, having heard through their crippled
friends of all the ftnt that was being had, pre-
sented themselves on ntore than one occasion as
unexpected guests. And more than one parent
called to inquire if she might “send the other
children, too." Tlte outcome was a happier orien-
tation of the handicapped child in his natural
social group.

Front these experiences in successful play came
unmistakable improvement in mental health.
There was, for one thing, in-
creased sclf-conf'tdence born
of self-discovery. The chil-
dren surprised themselves.
The most common expres-
sion heard upon the grounds
was the delighted exclama-
tion, "l didn't know I could
do that !" One little girl, her

Q!

“Wholesme play and recreation: are
tttott important in maintaining the
spirit of eottrage. and hopefulness, the
self-relinttee, enthusiasm and extther- lies. [I was this thde 311i-
ant life and jollin these ehildrett ex-
ltihit, and in developing further the
initiative, independence and self help
that will insure their future happi-
ness. hCnro Lane.

eyes blazing with elation, rushed up to the di-
rector and cried, “Just look at me sweat!” Never
before had she felt the joy of perspiration from
strenuous uninhibited childhood play. More than
that, the children knew that their parents and
friends were learning of their newly disclosed
abilities and were therefore looking for a higher
level of performance f ront them. It is of course,
a socio—psychic truism that the individual tends to
live up or down to the expectations of those about
him. One of the most pernicious influences in
paralyzing the initiative of the average cripple is
society's belief that he can accomplish little.
Through revealing to the child hitherto unrealized
potentialities and at the same time making those
about him conscious of the fact that he had been
previously underestimated, the games possessed
high therapeutic value front the standpoint of
mental hygiene.

Play Attitudes

Furthermore, carefully planned conditions of
the grounds made it practicable to subject the
child to certain desirable character-forming stint-
uli invariably present in the play of the physically
and mentally sound, but frequently absent f ront
that of the handicapped. There are three possible
social attitudes to which the cripple at play may
be exposed. The first is the maudlin sentimentality
which condones his failure to exercise the powers
lte has because of unintelligent pity for his weak-
ness. This results in a softening of personality
fibre which renders unbearably painful the sharp
criticisms which life inevitably brings, and causes
him to shrink front natural human contacts. The
second attitude is that of brutal exclusion front
the group—-—an attitude particularly characteristic
of small children and one which, by its embit-
tering effects, likewise uufits the cripple for sub-
sequent happy social intercourse. The third social
exposure is that which does not expect of hint the
physically impossible but which ttteasurcs him by
standards applicable to the norntal child in all
activities for which he has normal capacities and
subjects hint to the same
sharpness of criticism by his
peers for failure to achieve
in accordance with his abili-

tude which the Turner staff
attempted to make part of
the atntosphcre of the center.
Only through it, they felt,

AN ORTHOPEDIC PLAYGROUND 21

can the rough give-and—take
of normal childhood sports
be made part of the educa-
tion of the handicapped.
And on this hypothesis the
staff checked carefully to
n o t e significant differences
between the play attitudes of
the children under its sUper—
vision and those on surround-
ing playgrounds. The pro—
cedure was to tabulate and classify the expressions
of physically normal children at play and to com—
pare this classification with a_ similar one of the
expressions of Turner children. The conclusion
reached was that there was nothing pathological
in the responses of the latter. In the game of
baseball, as an illustration, it was found that for
both the handicapped and normal groups the ex-
pressions used fell under the headings of direc-
tions to each other, comments on the umpire's de-
cisions, teasing of the other side when it is los—
ing, defiance to the other side, encouragement to
teammates, and criticism of teammates’ bad plays.
There were individual but not group differences.
Responses to ridicule, condemnation, encourage—
ment, defiance and teasing were in general of the
same character and of approximately equal in—
tensity. The atmosphere of the grounds was
throughout the season normal. The only effect of
the crippling conditions was that each child was
fitted into a position in which he could creditably
function and that he knew the limitations of his
fellows. There was, of course, no ridicule or
criticism of awkwardness resultant from handi-

cap. The basis of condemnation was what one
could do but did not.

in The Survey.

Varied Activities Conducted

The same principles which underlay the staff’s
approach to the problem of games guided them in
the teaching of various forms of handwork.
Through projects in clay, drawing, making of
scrapbooks, furniture—making, tin work, copper
work, toy—making, sewing, weaving, vase—making,
and basketry, an opportunity was afforded each
child for the joyous expression of creative pow-
ers—the satisfaction of the keeii desire to “make
things.” During the course of the experiment
forty—nine distinct projects were undertaken and
more than three hundred articles completed. (Of
particular note was the deep interest of the
smaller girls in manual training work.) Here as

“Crippled children, both boys and
girls, desire above all else to do the
things which normal children do, and
if they can in even a small measure
approximate the skill necessary for
the game they are quite happy.
Modern care for crippled children
rccognizes this desire and the fact
that the last thing these children
want is sy1npathy.”—Charles J. Storey

in the other activities, an im-
portant ideal was to establish
and maintain a c0ntinuity of
home and school environ—
ments. The child’s decision
as to what he would make
was motivated in each case
by the purpose of making his
out-of—school relationships
more satisfying —of supply—
ing a need felt in the family
life. Furniture, games, toys, jewel-boxes, doll-
clothes, and other such articles went from the
grounds to the homes, where they remained as
tangible proofs of the cripple’s power to do.
These, together with others placed on exhibit at
the close of the season, increased the public’s re-
spect for his abilities and likewise enhanced hIS
self-esteem.

Thus the staff members felt their way from day
to day, constantly mindful that the Turner Play-
ground existed only on the justification that it was
making a contribution to the solution of life proo-
lems peculiar to crippled boys and girls. And as
the children worked in clay and tin and copper,
the leaders were alert to note the emergence of
hitherto unsuspected talents which might consti—
tute the basis of subsequent vocational guidance.
This by—‘product of the manumental activities will
prove eventually, it was felt, by no means its
smallest value. Care was also taken to ascertain
what forms of manual activity were most in keep—
ing with the physical characteristics of individual
children, and some attempt was made to correlate
this type of work with the corrective exercise.

Two other features of the daily program em—
phasized were music and dramatics. During the
season a total of ninety-two different songs were
used for group or individual singing or by the
playground orchestra, and five plays based on
familiar stories or the children’s own experiences
were written and presented. Of the songs, twenty-
two were popular modern music and eighteen
were Negro spirituals. This material was chosen
because it appealed to the tastes of the children
and because it was easier to get them to lose them-
selves in song and drama of the type they already
liked than to try to develop in them at the same
time new appreciations. The way in which the
boys and girls did throw themselves into these
activities was surprisingly gratifying. Girls who
had previously retreated from public notice came
out of their shells to sing solos; almost each day

22 AN OR TH OPEDI C PLA YGRO UND

a beautiful voice the musical leader had not known
about before broke on her astonished ears ;and the
orchestra, inspired by a recent visit of Cab Callo-
way, surrendered itself in wild abandon to the
ecstacies of popular tunes. At their closing exer-
cises the children presented to the public an
original musical drama telling the whole story of
the origin and development of the Turner Play-
ground.

lt was felt that the work done in this field was
productive of some of the most worthwhile results
of the project. To begin with, by giving the chil-
dren a consciousness of new abilities and pleasure
in their exercise and by increasing their knowl-
edge and appreciation of the sort of music which
people in their normal environments played and
sang, the making of happier everyday recreational
contacts was rendered less dif-
ficult for them. Moreover, the
increased assurance w h i c h
comes from successful appear-
ance in public resulted in
greater social ease. Then, too,
since every song is expressive
of a mood, it was believed that
certain dispositional changes
were affected by guiding cer-
tain children to lose themselves
in certain types of song. On this point, of course,
no authoritative statement can be made. The Tur-
ner corps, however, has decided to study further
the possibilities of bringing about specific changes
in emotional outlook through the selection of par-
ticular types of music for individual children.

In recreational reading, story-telling, and nature
study, the leaders were single-minded in their de-
termination to spare no pains to achieve the joyous-
uess of atmosphere,mind f ulness of health, buttres-
sing of self-confidence, and increased adaptability
which resulted from the child's other experiences
of the day. Full discussions of how the play-
ground news sheet evolved from the receational
reading of the larger boys, how the larger girls
were drawn closer to nature by their little after-
noon club, and how the story-telling period for
smaller children became one of the most popular
features of the grounds would be stories in them-
selves. In these periods, as elsewhere, were ob-
servable the same flowering of personality, out-
burst of latent talent, miraculous transformations
of character and closer understanding between
leader and child that made the project seem worth
while. And through them all the staff members

“It is very important in modern
educational practice that the handi-
capped should he treated the same
as any other person. The award of
recreation time is a call to the au-
tonomous man. A healthy attitude
toward the education of the crip-
ple admits the rights of the handi-
cappcd."—Hans W’nertz.

were alert to see that the formal attitudes of
"school" were completely discarded and the spirit
of play prevailed.

The record of this venture would be incomplete
without a final word concerning the work of the
physiotherapist and supervisor of health. Hers
was an assignment which required something ap-
proaching ubiquity. Assisted by the attendant and
bus driver, she assumed charge of the shower
baths, corrective exercise in the orthopedic gym—
nasium and swimming tank on the prescription of
attending surgeons, and daily inspection and ad-
justment of braces and casts. Besides, she saw
that the children brought properly balanced
lunches and that each child was assigned the
amount of rest he needed. It was also her func-
tion to check on clinic attendance. to confer with
leaders and children on mat-
ters pertaining to health, and
to safeguard the g r o u u d 5
against contagion. In addition
to this multiplicity of duties,
she fOUnd time to watch the
various groups at play in order
to be able to check excesses of
individual children. Had this
part of the workibeen inef-
fectively done, the project
would, of course have proved a failure. That the
health interests of the children were, at every
point, vigilantly protected was a triumph of con-
scientious, cooperative industry.

Such, in brief outline, is the story of life at
the Turner Health and Recreational Center. The
experiment was felt to be worth while. From the
beginning the staff members were allowed con-
siderable freedom by the Superintendent's Office,
and they utilized their opportunity, not to accumu-
late a number of pedagogical tricks, but to apply
the principles of modern education to the problem
of orthopedic recreation; not to master new de-
vices, but to acquire fundamental techniques.
Moreover, in the course of play from day to day
came numerous by-products which in their sum
may prove of deeper significance than the values
directly sought. Time and again situations de-
veloped which brOUght forth the finest impulses
of human nature. And every leader felt he knew
the children better by having lived closer to them
than ever before. Finally, not the least important
result of the experiences of these six short weeks
was the glimpse they gave of possibilities for
future work.

The New Leisure—
A Curse or a Blessing?

By EARNEST ELMO CALKINS

beings collect and cling—on trains or ships, at

street corners, in clubs or homes—you will
see how little they know about enjoying them—
selves. They are for the most part merely killing
time and killing it with stereotyped weapons—a
newspaperha cigarette, or more often patient en—
durance. They remind one of the old farmer who
said, “Sometimes I sets and thinks and sometimes
I just sets.” These people have what they con—
sider amusements elsewhere—some are on the
way to them—but they have nothing they can
pack up and take with them, no inward resources,
none of the ingredients for compounding a recipe
on the spot.

All people are bored some of the time, and some
people are bored all of the time. They are badly
equipped for self—entertainment. They must have
some one to talk to, or play with, something to
look at or listen to—entertainment furnished from
the outside without exertion, even mental, on their
part. Few are qualified to make the most of the
increasing leisure about to fall like Portia’s cele—
brated quality of mercy on the ready and the un-
ready alike. Here and there are wise ones who
know what they want to do, who are prepared and
eager to go, but it is safe to say that the mass of
mankind has as yet no need for further leisure,
nor does it know what to do with the leisure it
already has.

And so it is perhaps just as well the world has
not been unduly blessed with leisure since Adam
got his walking papers, or at least since a more
or less ordered civilization based upon the gospel
of work began to prevail. \Vork was something
that did not make great demands on the imagina-
tion of the rank and file of workers. It was there
and they did it, and for centuries it left few hours
unfilled to be disposed of otherwise. But leisure
requires a certain initiative, a good deal of that
rugged individualism we are hearing so much

IF YOU LOOK about you at places where human

Through the courtesy of Mr.
Calkins and the Economic
F orgm, we are presenting an

article which originally ap-
peared in the Fall issue of
the Economic Forum.

 

about in this regimented age. It is a good thing
that for the last two thousand years man has had
something else to think about besides amusing
himself. Work and religion between them have
held him down pretty close to the ground. Before
we can tell whether more leisure will be asset
or liability to the human race we must get some
idea of how it will be employed.

Work Ordained As a Curse

Isn’t it curious—the sancity in which work has
been held all these years, with moralists and phi-
losophers all on its side, when we recall that God
plainly imposed it as curse? Not only was man
told that hereafter he earn his bread by the sweat
of his brow, but God announced that he would
create weeds just to make it harder, implying
that work was not in itself essential but was cre-
ated for the occasion as a punishment, a rather
disproportionate one it seems for Adam’s one
slip. However, curse or blessing, work has so
far been a benefit to the human race. Long hours
of labor have exhausted its energies. The time
required to earn its living accounted for all the
hours not used in eating and sleeping. If there
was any time left over, the church grabbed that.
In fact, the only church that has shown real un—
derstanding of human nature provided much of
such entertainment as people had for centuries.
Few professional exhibitions achieve the pagean—
try and drama of one of the spectacles of St.
Peter’s—a canonization, for instance. The Cath-
olic church took its cue from imperial Rome and
kept the people quiet with bread and circuses.

Work, then, was ordained as a curse. The
church, actuated by shrewd policy, created a tra-
dition of its sanctity. Generations of children
were brought up on the precept, “Satan finds
some mischief still for idle hands to do.” In my
boyhood there were actually wall mottoes which
read, “Blessed be Drudgery.” And the church and

23

THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESS/NC .1"

the moralists and the politicians were right. No
one then could have faced the problem of what to
do with millions of people if they had not been
bound by the stern necessity of earning a liveli-
hood. There are even now political economists
who doubt that more leisure will be a blessing.
They feel that human nature is much the same,
and that the problem of finding safe outlets for
the tremendous energies to be let loose is a seri-
0115 one. It is. But for more than three years we
have had millions of idle both here and abroad,
and they have been on the whole orderly and dis-
ciplined. Indeed the docility of the unemployed is
almost miraculous, for they have had to contend
with not only leisure but want. There is a vast
difference between a leisure earned by a few
hours' work and idleness from lack of employ-
ment. Nor should it be forgotten that what gives
zest to leisure is the work that must be done
before it.

If work is a curse, then its opposite, leisure,
must be a blessing, and that is how it has been
regarded by the workers for centuries. They have
longed for leisure, not so much to do other and
better things with their lives as to be free from
work. Freedom from work is still all that leisure
means to millions. Their state of mind is summed
up in that of the Irishman who said that if he
had a million dollars he would take a room at
a hotel, leave a call for live o'clock, and when
the boy awakened him, tell him to go to hell
and torn over and go to sleep again.

Circumventing the Primal Corsc

And now mankind has f0und a way to cir-
cumvent the primal curse. He has invented
machinery which has already greatly shortened
the hours of labor, and the end is not yet in
sight. The working day that already prevails
would have seemed unadulterated leisure to a
craftsman of Queen Elizabeth's day. All la-
borers worked then from sun to sun or longer,
as many farmers do yet for part of the year.
But we now have it in our power to do all
necessary work for most occupations within
the compass of two old-fashioned working
days a week, and when this is organized, other
lines of gainful endeavor will accept the pre-
vailing schedule and there will be more hours
of leisure, excluding eating and sleeping, than
hours of work.

The New York Time: points out that sur-
prisingly little attention is being given to one

of the most important by-products of the various
N RA codes—the increased leisure the pacts give
to a vast army of consumers. This makes the
problem of wise use of spare time an immediate
one. \Vhat are these millions going to do with
their additional hours? It is an amazing oppor-
tunity, but an opportunity for which the majority
is ill prepared. Most people are skeptical, if not
actually scornful, of the type of recreation, al-
most the only type, that really satisfies, namely,
the expression and exercise of one's own physical
and mental powers, the kind of satisfaction a few
fortunate individuals find in their profession or
business, and fewer still in their amusements and
recreation, but which from the nature of our ma-
chine industrialism is denied to the millions—the
pleasure, it might be said, of “seeing the chips
Fly.”

Leisure, of course, is merely opportunity. It is
not an end in itself. Its value for both society and
the individual depends on the use to which it is
put. Most people would prefer routine work to
sheer idleness, whether they realize it or not. They
may be irked by the daily task, but they would be
bored with nothing to do. As working hours
shorten, how are people going to spend the addi-
tional time? That is the big question. Let us

 

(«any Scannequ ('in Recreation Drrarlmn!

THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESSING? 25

consider for a moment the standardized recrea—

tions to which people naturally turn now in such
leisure as they already have.

An Indictment of Our Amusements

The amusements that occupy the leisure hours
of most people are, briefly, the motor car, the mo-
tion picture, the radio and the big athletic spec-
tacles—commercialized exhibitions of football and
baseball, tennis and prize fighting-*as spectators,
not as participators. All these, even the motor
car, are anodynes, entertainrrlent for tired people
whose energies have been exhausted by the day’s
work until they are merely receptive. Even when,
as now, they have no work, they turn to the
amusements they know best, which in the past
they found sufficient. It was not so very long ago
that a girl-and—leg show was somewhat cynically
known as “entertainment for the tired business
man.”

It is not so much with the quality of these
popular amusements that we are concerned, though
that is open to grave question, as with their char—
acter. They are all vicarious, non—participating.
Even the motor car falls in this class, owing to a
curioUs custom which has arisen in the last' three
years. Since the beginning of the depression mil-

 

lions of people have taken to their cars. which
apparently are the last things surrendered, and
have wandered aimlessly over the continent, drunk
with mere motion, from camp to camp. Other
millions, no longer blessed with cars, have taken
to hiking, traveling on the good nature of passing
cars. These nomads have created a new industry,
for three hundred thousand shacks have been
erected in groups, or “overnite” camps, to take
care of this strange pilgrimage. These cabins, by
the way, present a new problem to those con-
cerned with preserving the natural charm of the
highways, along with advertising bulletins, hot
dog stands and filling stations. It is distressing
that so few in search of recreation are concerned
with mere beauty.

The point is that such amusements will not suf-
fice for a greater leisure._ They cannot be spread
over more time without palling. They do not af-
ford the satisfaction that comes from doing, from
using the mind or the body—~—making. creating—
in contact with realities such as the earth or tools.
They offer nothing to the spirit_. They ignore not
only the vast' store of resources within, but the
equally great possibilities in the world without.
The movie, the radio and even the motor car, pre-
sent an unreal world, mere escape. And human

nature being what it is, the time will come

when it will demand something to satisfy a

wider range of desires.

\Vhat it may tUrn to is or should be the im—
mediate concern of social economists. With
their present standards and inclinations, their
long servitude to the idea of being idly and
mildly entertained without much effort on their
own part, people will continue along the lines
of least resistance, and by their lack of initia-
tive create a new host of ready-made, unin—
spiring entertainments similar to those they
have, passively accepted by millions who have
never learned to use their own powers for pur-
poses of enjoyment. More than that, they are
apt to mistake excitement for recreation, and
in pursuit of the former turn in greater num—
bers to the oldest diversions of the human race
-—-a1cohol, gambling and sex. They have yet

Drama is one of the leisure-time
interests most deeply rooted in
personal desire and preference.

26 THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESSING?

to learn there is no continuing
satisfaction in self-indulgence,
that the only recreations that
are worth while are those that
do not pall and sate, but con-
tinually open new vistas, which
not only recreate but also re-

create.

At present we find millions
absorbed in predigested amusements, movies,
radio, car and vicarious sport; the more exelusive
thousands filling the time with bridge and golf,
and only a few hundreds occupied with individual,
personal pursuits, doing surprising and interest-
i ng things—making accurate pictures of the birds
in America, ereating beautiful books, collecting
unusual and at present inexpensive tokens of
earlier ages, fathoming the mystery of tools, re-
discovering the immemorial appeal of gardens,
turning to forgotten games such as badminton and
cribbage—recreations whose merit is that they are
not yet standardized popular amusement. They
reflect on the practitioner a touch of individu-
ality, originality, uniqueness, that ministers to his
pride and satisfaction.

The Problem—t0 Make Leisure a Blessing

Among the avocations of these clear-eyed pio-
neers we must look for the formula which will
make leisure a blessing to the millions who must
still be taught not to “kill” time but to make it a
living, vital thing.

The millions to which this appeal is addressed
might retort that such things demand special gifts,
special training. They do. But the gifts are far
more widely distributed than you would think,
and the training is easily acquired. Surely people
who have become adept in manipulating a car,
familiar with the interior workings of wireless,
who have mastered such complicated and techni-
cal mental and physical skills as are required for
bridge or golf, can learn to handle almost any
tool, understand the “points” that make a book
or pewter pot or glass bottle a collector’s item,
can, in short, learn enough of any craft, art,
science or hobby to enjoy it and widen their con-
tacts with the world, add new interests and make
themselves more nearly well rounded, complete
human beings. Every person has atleast one in-
teresting side. There are few fields of higher ac-
tivities in which large numbers of people could
not function with satisfaction to themseves. All
that is needed is the urge. Not all can reach pro-

“Play is an alternative for those
lazy entertainments whieh find us
idle and leave us passive, sinee it
gives us something we can do or
make to exereise our faeulties and
eause us to experienee that glorious
sense of aehievement.” — Earnest
Elmo Calkins in “The Lost Art of
Play,” Atlantic Monthly.

fessional standards, but that is
not necessary. The meaning of
“amateur” is “lover.” One
does not do such things to add
to the stores of the world's
possessions or knowledge or
beauty so much as to develop
one’s own powers, to taste the
very real satisfactions that
come from making, doing, creating. Play is some-
thing one does for the game's sake, never from a
sense of duty, or for any material gain. And of
course skill comes with practice, and that is one
of the fascinations, the way doors open on wider
vistas as one advances. It is not necessary to
carve well enough to compete with the Swiss ex-
perts who make souvenirs for tourists, but merely
well enough to taste the tonic quality that comes
from the feel of tool against wood. The formula
is for an occupation that grows with use, develops
some faculty of body or mind, or both, and adds
to taste, skill and knowledge.

There is really no dOubt about the publie and
private good that would ensue if people put their
leisure to the best possible use. The mere con-
eerted effort of thousands to do with all their
might things that make them better human beings
would foster the common good. Many desirable
recreations are cooperative, call for community
spirit, doing things together—group movements,
neighborhood activities, games, folk dances, play
acting, pageants; beautifying towns, villages and
roads; preserving and creating scenery, re-es-
tabishing interesting backgrounds of historical
spots, making environment more interesting.
These could be by-products of a better concep-
tion of what leisure means, but meanwhile if each
individual should seek an occupation that pene-
trated to the innermost core of his being, in which
he could attain enough proficiency or preeminence
to set him apart from his fellows, develops his in-
dividuality, the sum total would be a more inter-
esting world. It would also furnish an antidote
for what is stereotyped and standardized in our
present civilization.

The l’resident’s inspired idea of putting some
350,000 young men at work in the forests is big
with promise. Who can foresee the ultimate ef-
fect of such contacts? Here are thousands of
young men who have never in their lives before
looked comprehendineg at a tree, never realized
its Usefulness or its beauty. For them to learn
some of the methods by which forests are

THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESSING.’ 27

preserved and developed is a distinct gain. They

cannot be the same afterward. Much of the charm
of Europe is due to the centuries of care given to
trees. Of course, the forest primeval has beauty
as well as the cared for one, but between the two,
the inevitable result of contact with man’s igno-
rance and greed, there is chaos, unsightliness,
waste. If every citizen learned but‘ this one thing,
to love a tree, the physical aspect of the country
would be enhanced.

The question is not, however, as to the advan—
tages or benefits to the community, or even to
the individual, of more rational and satisfying
recreations. Nor is it one of finding amuse-
ments and recreations for the newly liberated. On
the contrary, the list of available, amusing and
satisfying occupations open to all, irrespective of
financial resources or mental equipment, is long
enough to fill this magazine from cover to cover.

Nor would the catalogue be complete, for avo-
cations are as varied as the minds that originate
them, and new ones are being created every day.
It is enough that they are things that‘ someone is
interested in doing. A manufacturer of shoe-
blacking has just died. His grove of nut trees
contained four hundred varieties of nuts, more
than were ever gathered into one nut orchard
before. \Vhen he retired from the blacking busi-
ness he went in for nuts, grew them, crossed
them, produced new specimens, corresponded

1.

__
I
4" L

I

1" *c
‘9

N

Courtesy Nations! Forest Senrice

with other “nuts,” was president of a nut grow-
ers’ society. Probably no one in the world ever
thought of growing nuts as a hobby before, but
what of it? That fact gives the idea its charm.
The point is that if nuts interested Mr. Bixby
more than anything else, then nuts was the inter-
est for him to follow, no matter what his friends
and associates did—or said. He might have rid-
den to hounds, or raced a yacht, or collected
trophies, or raised orchids, or become a champion
pistol shot, or subsidized an orchestra, or any one
of a thousand things men with some means do
when they give up work for leisure. But he knew
what he wanted to do and did it.

How Are People to Learn?

The real problem is, how are people to find this
out? How are they to be taught, exposed to inocu-
lation? It is easy for such things as backgammon
or jigsaw puzzles to spread like an epidemic.
They are fads. They flourish in popular favor
and wither as soon as the craze passes. They
have no roots in personal desire. For every one
who takes them up through preference and in-
terest, thousands adopt them imitatively and with-
out thought. A real interest is the exact opposite
of a fad. Its essence is its individuality. It ex-
presses a need, not of the mass mind, but of one
isolated human mind. Something is required to

(Continued on page 44)

 

Fletcher Farm Invites You!

LETCIIER FARM, an informal
F adult education center locat-
ed at Proctorsville in South-
ern Vermont, extends to persons who have sum-
mer leisure a two-fold invitation: first, that they
come to the Farm to enjoy a vacation in this
Green Mountain section of New England; sec-
ond, that they engage in study courses and discus-
sions offered by the Farm.

The Farm itself has for about one hundred and
fifty years been the property of the Fletcher fam-
ily. It consists of two white farmhouses, barns.
meadows, hills and streams, 530 acres in all. It
has been given to a board of trustees of thirty-
six men and women who will conduct here a series
of study courses and conferences along lines of
interest to men and women. Arts and crafts,
drama, music, economics, group leadership, social
problems, and many other allied subjects will
make up the program of the summer.

The 1934 Summer Calendar

May lS-ZO-Coilege lVeek-end—for students of Vermont
and New Hampshire to discuss the student's adjust-
mcnt to the after-college community.

May 27-June l—Camp Leadership Course—for directors
and counsclors of girls’ eamps, conducted by Abbie
Graham, author of The Girls’ Camp.

June 4-6-Seminar on the Town and Country Church—
for ministers and religious work directors. Con-
ducted by Benson Y. Laudis of the Federal Council
of Churehes, and Julia Hogan Fenner, specialist in
religious drama.

June lO-l6—Farm Women Week—for Vermont farm
women. A week of recrcation and study. Dirccted
by Marjorie Luce, State Home Demonstration
Agent of Vermont, Julia Hogan Fenuer, and Abbie
Graham.

June lS-ZE—lnstiutte on Social Problem—directed by L.
Josephine Webster, Direetor of Social Work Super-
vision, State of Vcrmont. Of interest to oversecrs
of the poor, ehurch workers, and other groups con-
cerned with social problcms in Vermont.

June 23-24—Conference of Rural Teachers—directed by
John Holdcn and assisted by Elsie R. Clapp, rural
school specialists. To consider how best to stimulatc
creative teaching in the rural school.

June 24-July l4—Arts and Crafts Course—directed by
Ruth Perkins. A course of special interest to rural
school teachers, librarians, community craft teach-
ers. and to individuals working for their own pleas-
ure. Pottcry of all kinds, design, book-making.
block-printing, weaving and other crafts will be
taught. During the first ten days of this course

special discussions on the rural school will be led
by Mr. Holden and Miss Clapp.

28

By ABBIE GRAHAM

July l5-23—Chtb Leadership Course—

directed by the National Y.\V.C.A.
and open to officers and lcaders of

business and industrial girls clubs of
of Y. \V. C. A. and to Girl Reserve advisers.

July 29-August 4—11! usic Leadership Institute—directed
by A. D. Zanzig of the National Reereation Asso-
ciation. Of interest to leaders of music in com-
munity, church and school, and to individuals who
enjoy music. The program will concern itself not
only with music but also with drama and recreation,
especially American and English eountry dancing,
pipe-making and the appreciation of radio music.
Julia Hogan Fcnner will direct the drama work of
the Institute.

August 4-S—Conferenee on the National Recovery Pro-
gram—led by Benson Y. Landis. A seminar to re-
view and analyze the main aspects of the agricultural
and industrial program, public reactions to the pro-
grams, the social and ethical aspeets.

August 6-19—Experimeuta! Drama. A eonrse on drama,
the writing, aeting and directing of plays. will be
conductcd by Julia Hogan Fenner. chistrations
should be in by May lst.

August 19-September l. — Leadership in Organised
Groups—directcd by Grace L. Coyle and A. D. Shef-
field. This will be of interest to thosc who are con-
cerned with the development of the programs of
organizcd groups in the educational and social work
field. This course will eonsist of the program mak-
ing of groups, techniques of leadership, and under-
lying sociological conccpts.

Those who desire information on these courses
and conferences are invited to write to Miss Ab-
bie Graham, Director of Fletcher Farm. Address
until May 15th, 10 Miller Place, Bronxville, New
York; after that date, Fletcher Farm, Proctors-
ville, Vermont. Registration for a course is usually
$1.00; tuition, $5.00 per week; board and room,
$15 per week.

Music Institute Week

The program for Music Institute \Veek as out-
lined by Mr. Zanzig will be of interest to recrea-
tion workers. The Institute program, which will be
Open to "men and women who are interested in
music for their personal enjoyment, or who de-
sire to increase their skill in the leadership of
musical groups,” will include the following:

I. The learning of good songs and simple part
music suitable to whatever groups of children or
adults and whatever occasions are of interest to
persons attending the Institute.

(Continued on page 45)

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

IGHTING is undoubtedly the most neglected, by

L amateur producing groups, of all the arts

and crafts of the stage. The average play

is lit by the simple expedient of turning on all

the lights that happen to be available, and on
with the show!

The experienced director realizes that light,
next to the actor, is his most subtle and mobile
medium for the creation of atmosphere and mood.
With it he can not only arouse feeling and create
a state of mind, but he can suggest the time and
place of the action, tell something about the
weather, and enhance, change or kill the color of
costume and scene. He knows that he can paint
his setting with light as well as paint, and that it
is a magic wand which allows him to use inex-
pensive material in the creation of rich and
lustrous illusions.

The usual amateur stage is underlit through
lack of lighting equipment. The stage must be
illuminated strongly enough for the audience to
see not only the actor but any expression that
may be registered upon his face. The first con—
sideration in stage lighting, then, is visability.

Usually most of the light comes from over
head, either from border lights or from baby
spotlights and small floodlights clamped in over-
head battons. Light may also be thrown on the
stage from spotlights in the house. These spot-
lights are usually placed in the front edge of the
balcony or behind a beam which conceals them
from the audience and which extends across the
ceiling of the house ten or more feet in front of
the proscenium arch.

Light may also be thrown upon the stage from
the sides, through the wings, or setting doors,
windows and other exits. Olivettes or bunch—
lights are usually used for this ~
purpose.

The purpose of footlights is to
kill the shadows that otherwise
form beneath the brows, nose

and chin of the actor, interfering with expres-
sion and, if the overhead lighting is strong, giv-
ing the illusion that all actresses as well as actors
are wearing chin beards. The footlights should
throw the light up on to the stage at an angle of
about forty—five degrees. They should be strong
enough to kill the shadows mentioned, but no
stronger. Usually thirty or forty watt lamps
are used in the foots.

The second consideration in stage lighting
might be termed interpretation. Light is used to
suggest mood, atmosphere. weather, time and
place.

Comedies should be brilliantly lighted; trage-
dies may be more somberly lighted. Comedy
played on a dim stage is seldom funny. In a
mystery or “spooky” scene the lights may be dim,
or if the situation in the play will allow it, of a
color to arouse that atmosphere, such as blue or
green. Again, the lights may be so placed and
regulated as to throw weird shadows upon the
walls or ceiling.

Shadows add greatly to the mood of a scene,
provided they are used skillfully. They make a
scene more plastic, give it depth and interest.
They should, however, always fall where they
belong. Shadows do not fall up on the sky or
upon a window, if that window is a source of
light. Shadows should always fall away from the
apparent source of light. If the scene appears
to be lit from a floor lamp on the right of the
stage, and an actor is in the center of the stage,
his shadow falls away from the lamp, not to-
wards it.

Lamps in “prop” lights (Floor lamps, bridge
lamps, chandeliers, etc., which appear to light the
scene) should be very weak, ten or twenty watts.

There is more to lighting a play than iust the turn-
ing on of any lights which may happen to be available!

29

30 HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY

Otherwise they will blind or strain the eyes of
the audience. The effect of light coming from
them is obtained by an overhead spotlight or
small floodlight focused on the “prop” light.

The stage should always appear to be lit from
natural sources. such as doors, windows, sky, fire-
place or property lamps. This effect is secured
by having the portion of the stage nearest the
souree of light a little brighter than the rest of
the stage. Spotlights or floodlights focused upon
the portion to be more brightly illuminated are
used to secure this effect.

The sky, if visible. should be more brilliantly
lit than the rest of the stage, not only to give the
illusion that the light is coming from it, but to
kill any shadow that might be thrown upon it.

A stage evenly lit by means of borderlights and
footlights alone is usually flat and uninteresting.
Like a good picture, the stage has a “center of
interest.” This center of interest is usually more
brilliantly lit than the rest of the stage. This is
generally done with overhead or house spots, the
edges of which have been masked; that is, a piece
of tin or eardboard with an irregular hole in the
ecntcr is plaeed before the spotlight lense, so that
the spot of light thrown is irregular in shape and
blends in with the other lighted areas of the stage.

As the scene pr0gresscs the lights may be
gradually changed in intensity, or the color may
slowly ehange to another hue. This is done with
dimmers, a machine used to increase or decrease
gradually the amount of light thrown from the
lighting equipment. On a stage well equipped
with dimmers, spots and floods. light becomes
mobile and can move about. change in intensity
and color, and express moods almost as well as
the actor.

Steel blue light is used to suggest moonlight.
Magenta is used to suggest sunrise or sunset, and
is also used in fireplaecs. A white light is usually
used for sunlight scenes. The white light may be
tinted with just a touch of
yellow or amber light.

The third Consideration
in lighting is color. Colored
lights are used in lighting
even an ordinary or "white
scene." A colored light
brings out its own color
and kills or ehangcs any
other color. Therefore, in
order to bring out all the

colors that may be in the costumes and the set-
ting, all eolors of light should be used in the
lighting scheme. This is obtained by using the
three primary colors in lighting red. blue and
green. These three mixed together in the air
produce a white light. All other colors in light
are made of these three primary colors. If they
are used in the lighting scheme, every color upon
the stage will be enhanced and given its full value.

The footlights usually have a preponderance
of white, straw and amber lights. .\lixc(l in,
however, are a sprinkling of blue and green lights
and a very few red lights. Beware of using too
much red in the footlights. otherwise your actors
will appear to have blotchy complexions.

The borderlights, or overhead spots and floods,
have a preponderance of white lamps. with a
sprinkling of red, blue and green lamps. Enough
white light is used to wash out the colored light.
In other words, the colored rays are invisible to
the audience, but they are still there, bringing out
all the colors in the setting.

Amber light is exceedingly popular with some
directors, due to its soft attractive hue, but beware
of it: it kills color, especially the blues. which
turn to a muddy brown, and may ruin attractive
costumes and setting.

Colored light in spotlights and floodlights is
secured by using a gelatine medium in front of
the lens or mouth of the equipment. This may
be secured from any stage or motion picture sup-
ply house. A tougher and more durable material
which is highly recommended is “transolcnc.”

Every stage should be equipped with the fol-
lowing lighting equipment: a set of dimmers,
footlights. borderlights or better, overhead bat-
tons with a number of baby spotlights and small
floodlights clamped to them, a number of olivettes
and bunchlights on standards to be used from the
sides of the stage, and a good switch board. Com-
mereial lighting equipment. however, is expensive
and a great deal of it is out
of rcaeh of the amateur
group. All of this material.
and mueh other equipment
can be made very easily
and very inexpensively.

Remarkably interesting.
beautiful. and effective
lighting may be seeurcd by

Readers of RECREATION who are follow-
ing Mr. Knapp’s series of articles will
be interested in knowing that a chapter
of Pfay Production Made Easy issued
by the Drama Service of the National
lleereation Association ($.50) eonbains
information on homemade seenery and
lighting. The booklet tells how to make
a bread tin light and a milk pail flood- . . .
light, and offers general suggestions on “51"?! homemade l‘ghtmg

producing lighting effects.

(Continued on page 45)

Camping As a Factor in the Child’s Development

 

—_.I --. I

Photo by H from M yer:

HE SUMMER CAMP has be-
T come a fixture in modern

life. At the first sign of
spring parents begin to cast about
with a view of finding places in the great out-of-
doors where their children can spend a part of
their summer vacation in wholesome recreation,
accompanied by special instruction with able lead-
ership. The companionship and genial contacts of
camp life, together with the adventures of a pro-
gram which fosters health and happiness amid
nature lore, are ever engaging to the boys and
girls.

The primary objective from a leadership point
of view is to give the campers the happiest and
most beneficial developmental opportunities pos-
sible. Every phase of camp life must be directed
with definite standards for the individual needs
of the child. Such standards include health-giving
energy, nature study acquaintance, wholesome fun
and social adjustment which develop self-reliance,
joy of achievement, altruistic tendencies and char-
acter building. Most campers have a keen sense
for evaluating camp life, and it is always well to
stress the purposeful way of living harmoniously
together and to encourage self—expression and in-
itiative in selecting activities for special interests
and talents.

Children arrive at camp with deep secrets hid-
den away in their minds as to just what they hope
to do or to gain from their camp experience. Many
revolt at a formal program with exact time
schedule for each activity, and it is not well for

By DELITE M. MOWER
New York City

_ i ‘I '. ..
- !

 

An outdoor singing group at camp

the staff to insist on rigidity or
compulsion in camp activities. In-
stead. a varied pr0gram should
include activities which challenge
worthy traditions, friendships, personal adjust-
ments, fair attitudes, capabilities, development of
skills and the appreciation of the finer things in
music, literature, art, nature and human person-
ality. \Vith adequate counselor staff supervision
can be given so that special interests can be car-
ried on. The children can easily be exposed to the
various activities. I know of no better way of
adjusting children and integrating them into a
program or aiding them in adopting their hobbies
than through definite hobby hours.

Hobbies

Group division for program building proves
very satisfactory. This allows all campers the
same opportunities, though it is well to permit the
children to choose their activities as far as
possible.

There lies in every child the craving for self-
expression and the opportunity for recognition.
The idea of a hobby is not to do blindly what
every one else is doing, but to find a special means
of self-eXpression. In no place can hobbies be
developed as they can be in camp.

The fun begins after an introduction in assem-
bly when the director outlines the program, thus
giving the campers an opportunity of comparing
the activities and applying them to their needs and
interests. The special department counselors are

31

32 CAMPING AS A FACTOR IN THE CHILD'S DEVELOPMENT

then asked to speak and present the activities of
their departments. One dramatic counselor while
explaining her department said: “Today we are
all going to ride hobby horses around the camp.
Watch for a real masked knight on a real horse
who will bring you the news as to how we shall
play.” \Vithin an hour after the children had re-
turned to their houses they saw the knight dressed
in a bright red mantle come riding forth on a
white horse. l-le carried with him the hobby hour
sheet which he presented to the counselor who
placed it on the bulletin board. No sooner had
the knight galloped away than the children had
signed on the sheet which carried the following
caption:

“Hobby Hours are periods in which campers
may develop their Special interests. Please
sign ttp fo'r your hobby tinder department
counselor. The following hobbies offer a
range of choice":

NATURE LORE Archery
Outdoor Cooking Hiking
Camp Craft Track Meets
Forestry Hare and Hound
Trees, Bird Lore Tumbling
Fern Boxes Ping Pong
Astronomy Paddle Tennis
.‘gggg'i‘r‘lgg DRA MATICS
Flower Boxes gtfrgn'icmng
Star Charts Cirgcus ry
Labeling Trees Fla 5
{otum Poles Panfomimc
nots ‘
Sparder Prints gi‘aasélggzglgf
“'g’tTERPRO NT Costunting
tvtmnnng . .
Diving nglglkc
Life Saving Sgcial
Eggmgg Interpretive

ARTS AND CRAFTS
Art Sketching
Leather Craft

“'atcr Pageantry
Water Carnival

MUSIC :
Egg Singing {3335 5233.13
Operctms Kite Making .
Toy Orchestras {gégijliigwmdoor firing)
ATIILETICS' Decorating Indian Tepee
Corrective Gym Rock Garden
Baseball Bird Houses
Basketball l’ttppets
Volley Ball Marionettes
Tennis Jewelry

MISCELLANEOUS

Camp Fires (various types of
fires)

Photography

Library

Map Making

Newspaper

Picnics

The following instructions

were issued for hobby hour:

Miss Mower, Direetor of Girls' Work
at llenry Street Settlement, writes
here of some of the netivities eon-
dneted nt the summer camp main-
tained by the Settlement, and tells of
the values she believes there netivities
and the experiences of eantp life have
for the development of the child.

First day campers may move from one activity
to another.

Second day campers may remain at least three
days in chosen hobbies.

Those especially interested may remain in the
hobby hour a longer period to complete project
or craft. Counselors who are itt charge of each
department will see that children sign up, and
will assist in stimulating the creative powers of
each child as much as possible.

From an administration standpoint it is always
interesting to observe the groups becoming or-
ganized and adjusted. Some are large in number
while others at times are very few, depending on
the project. An adequate number of counselors
is necessary to assist and guide the campers.

One nature study group in our camp called
themselves Scouts of Adecntnrc and decided to
explore the camp, first of all to enjoy its scenic
and historic beauty. The spirit of adventure was
symbolized by pitching a tent in the form of an
Indian tepee which the Craft Department dec-
orated with Indian designs. During hobby hour
the Dramatic Department assisted with the In-
dian ceremonial at the dedication. This tent was
used by the Scouts of Adventure as headquarters
for a nature study museum from which the Scouts
went forth with eager ears and open eyes to dis-
cover specimens such as rocks, leaves, flowers.
nuts, seeds. ntoss, butterflies, cocoons and various
insects, which they studied and placed in the mu-
seum. They also held outdoor cooking groups,
special camp fire parties, powwows, ceremonials
and overnight hikes with astronomy talks and
observations.

First aid and health talks were sponsored by
this group. All campers interested were invited
to join when a member from the medical staff
spoke on first aid. llantlaging was demonstrated
and the children learned how to make a stretcher
by folding a blanket which could be used to carry
an injured comrade in case of emergency.

Arts and Crafts

Arts and crafts play a large part in a camp
program. .\lany worthwhile
projects of high educational
and cultural value leave last-
ing impressions on the minds
of the campers of various
ages. Of utmost importance
is the good comradeship
which is gained by working

i

CAMPING AS A FACTOR IN THE CHILD’S DEVELOPMENT 33

and playing together. It

is only by doing the thing b
that is liked, the thing
that is an expression of
their own individual and
creative power, that the
campers gain an appre—
ciation of th ei r own
strength. It is through
this that enduring f riend—
ships are made. Skill is
acquired as curiosity and
interest develop, and one
triumph always leads to
the next. Many times
crafts open new worlds
to the campers.

Little Mary, making
her first mar ionette,
achieved much as she
labored long and serious-
ly making the clay head,
cloth-jointed body and
dress of well—chosen eol—
ors. and finally strung the
little character and wrote the plot for the play.
Mary was not always aware of the many prob—
lems which she solved nor the perseverance re—
quired. She was only absorbed in making the
marionette “so it will talk and act.” Extremely
opposite in artistic temperament is her little
friend, Sadie, who when asked by her connselor
if she would not like to make a pottery bowl for
her mother, replied: “Aw, I should spend my
time making a pottery bowl for my ma, when I
can buy one on the pushcart for a nickel. Come
on, let’s join Up with the water carnival group. I
like to swim.” The little boy who builds a radio
set or repairs the ear toils with zest and energy,
unaware of time or worries. The fun lies not in
possession but in pursuit.

 

Photo by Hiram .M'ver:

Art Metal Craft. Boys and girls, especially
those with a degree of patience, find an inexhaus-
tible field for exploration in creating pieces of
jewelry and useful articles from German silver
and pewter. In the better equipped camps, brass,
copper. gold and sterling are used. Simple articles
such as bracelets, letter openers and ash trays can
be made from German silver and pewter. Chil-
dren can make these items in two or three hobby
periods, and they always show considerable pride
in their accomplishments.

Can anyone doubt this camper's pleasure in
mask-making? And he is only one of many!

Costumes, The mak«
ing of costumes, when
the campers let their
imagination take wings,
is always most engaging.
Because they are worn
only once or twice, cos—
tumes can be inexpen—
sive but at the same time
smart and colorful. The
main thing is line, color
and effect. Crepe paper
and cotton fabrics are
most useful.

An interesting eamp
project is preparation for
International Eve n i n g
when different groups
dress, act and depict the
festive life of people in
other countries. The pro-
gram begins at dinner
when the campers come
dressed in their costumes
and each nationality is
grouped at its own table. International songs,
stunts, dances and skits carry out their costumes
and table decorations. Such an evening is a beau-
tiful example of the satisfactory correlation of
subjects in the dramaties, music and crafts de-
partments. Flags of other nations always fiy high
about the gay dining room, and the joyous laugh-
ter of campers and staff tell a story of worth-
while endeavor.

Boys find no end of interest in mask-making,
when they are to utilize their efforts for a gala
party or even for decoration purposes. I remem—
her one group of little boys who worked for days
making grotesque masks to be used in an act at
a birthday camp party.

Mask-Making. Every one loves to masquerade
and to live', if only for a little while, in another
role. The ability to paint and model helps one
considerably in mask-making. Imagination is also
necessary. There are a number of methods em-
ployed, but the easiest and least expensive is that of
utilizing clay or old paper, or even paper toweling
soaked in water to make a papier-mache solution.
This, with glue, paint and varnish, can be masked
on to the model and within a short time any num-
ber of clever masks may be made.

34 CAMPING AS A FACTOR IN THE CHILD’S DEVELOPMENT

Leather Projects. These are always interest-
ing projects in the art program. Boys and girls
enjoy making bookmarks, purses, cases for vari-
ous purposes, lanyards, moccasins and notebook
covers. Quite often an entire camp party will re-
turn home with presents for members of their
families created in hobby periods.

Other Handcrafts. One group of little girls
showed remarkable ability in weaving beautiful

mats and belts on hand loom frames. The design
and colors were particularly interesting. Several
of the group made purses from raffia; some made
attractive needlework bags from yarn and fabrics.
I recall one group of boys which made most fas-
cinating toys from corks and another which cre-
ated musical instruments from cigar boxes.

Rock Gardening

All young campers, but especially those in the
adolescent age, show great interest in camp gar-
dens. Some prefer the formal garden where beds
of vegetables, berries and hardy perennials grow.
but as a camp project which is to continue year
after year, the rock garden ranks high. \Vhy not
let the children who come to camp from over-
crowded city tenements and apartments enjoy the
beauty and the adventure of building and caring
for a camp rock garden?

The most suitable place for such an undertak-
ing is a site a short distance away from the camp
building on a slight slope with the south and east
exposed to the morning stm. Fertile soil is a
necessity. lnformality must exist everywhere to
be in keeping with Mother Nature and to produce
a natural efl'ect. Before the materials are brought
to the location grading and drainage should be
considered. Next come the plans for the paths
leading to and within the garden. They should be
narrow and made to ramble among the rocks in
such a way as to allow the children to cultivate
and care for the plants.

The carrying of rocks from a distance can he
made an interesting game to the children. While
building a rock garden at camp we used the fol-
lowing stunt: First we appointed a captain who

selected a marker within range of a goodly snp- .

ply of stones. Then we had the children take
turns throwing the stones at the marker, which
was moved nearer the garden plot. The fun con-
tinued until the pile of stones reached the garden.
This was much more fun than just lugging stones
from one place to anotherl

In placing the rocks in the garden avoid too
great repetition and regularity. Only a portion of
the rock should be exposed. Rocks stand for sta-
bility and permanence, so try to produce that ef-
fect. Each one should be firm enough to permit
stepping on it without fear of slipping. Limestone
or sandstone weather well. Best of all are field
stones or stones from old stone fences.

A great deal of planting can be done by the dif-
ferent groups as the work progresses, since the
different children will have various tasks. Sone
will want to build the garden, while others prefer
to plant and cultivate. It is well to have a variety
of flowers, such as columbines, pinks, alyssums,
saxifrages, sedums, rock cresses, portulaca, bell
flowers, violets. candytu ft, rock roses and nastur-
tiums. A portion of the garden area might con-
tain some varieties of biennials which require two
years to complete their life and bloom the second
year. Perennials live more than two years and
produce flowers and seeds over many seasons.

In planning the garden, children like to arrange
for special features as, for example, one or two
stone sun dials, a central place for astronomy ob-
servations of the stars or perhaps a very favorite
and sacred spot for special council meetings.

The rock garden has a double value aside from
providing a project for one season or one group
of children; it can be carried on by many succes-
sors. The children may begin in the early spring
in the clubs, classes or homes by making hot beds
or small flower boxes where seeds are planted for
transplanting at camp. This provides nature study
material as a club project and carries on as a camp
interest. Even in the late fall the flowers can be
used for decorations for important entertainment
parties or banquets.

Social Music and Dramatics

Music plays an important part in a camp pro-
gram. Campers always look forward to assemblies
when old songs are reviewed and possibly new
ones learned. These usually include folk songs of
various countries, Negro spirituals and camp
songs. During the special group music periods
operettas, choruses or just “singing together" are
always a joy to the camper.

Drama is easily correlated with music, and the
plays, skits and operettas often need close co-
operation from the music department.

(Comimwd on f‘dgl‘ 46)

A Circulating Picture Club

INCE THE DAYS of Benjamin Franklin there
S have been circulating libraries for Philadel-
phia to be proud of. And now the city has
a Circulating Picture Club which enlarges upon
the book loan idea and issues art works to bor-
rowers, thus giving the Quaker City prominence
in a line altruistic movement. The result also has
been the establishment of a unique and popular
institution which is one of the first of its kind in
the country.

The club maintains a lending library of original
paintings by American artists. Those who love
beautiful pictures may borrow them as easily as
books are taken from a library. These loan
pictures are chosen from the viewpoint of being
“livable”; they offer innumerable opportunities
to decorate and transform a home. New and
larger leisure has sharpened public consciousness
to the need for beauty. Requests for the loan
pictures are becoming more frequent. For a nomi—
nal fee they are issued under a set of rules and
regulations such as are maintained by a library.

The sponsoring
organization is the
Philadelphia A r t
Alliance, which
some y e a r s ago
evolved the plan of
sending pictures
out to annual sub-
scribers. In 1 e s s
than ten years this
circulating gallery
of five hundred
portable pictures
has been transship—
ped to club mem—
bers over a wide

"Mackerel Boats," by

Hayley Lever-one oi
the pictures hung in
the annual exhibition

oi the Philadelphia
Art Alliance.

area, as far west as Indiana and as far east as
Springfield, Massachusetts.

Those who dreamed vaguely of some day own—
ing a line original painting may now, through
their annual membership in the circulating collec—
tion, look daily upon sunny landscapes or the
rioting colors of midsummer bloom; may be com-
panioned by delightful portraits or enjoy the stir-
ring drama of the sea; may tranquilize the spirit
with a glimpse of quiet countryside, or the ma-
jestic peace of mountains and silver lakes.

Circulation of the pictures has been intensified,
especially in an area within a seventy—Eve mile
radius of Philadelphia. The recipients include
schools, clubs, libraries, recreation centers, insti—
tutions of every character, settlement houses, busi—
ness offices and numerous individuals.

It costs ten dollars for an organization or indi—
vidual to join the Circulating Picture Club for
one year. Eight paintings or sixteen etchings
may be borrowed during that period with a single
canvas or two etchings. if preferred, to be re-

"T

 

36 A CIRCULATING PICTURE CLUB

Yarnall Abbott, chairman
of the club, confidently fore-
sees a time when through-
out the United States paint-
ings by living American art-
ists will be circulated just as
books are widely circulated

tained for one month. In
such an easy, convenient way
does the organization open
the door to full enjoyment
of beauty where it may be
savored with the joy of lei-
surely contemplation—in the

“The inspiration and reereative value
of public and private collections of
painting, sculpture, prints and oh-
jeets of the decorative arts is only
part of the story the arts have to tell,
though such inspiration and recrea-
tion were never more valuable than
they are today.” The American
Federation of Arts.

setting of one’s home. For
the majority of subscribers
there is a particular satisfaction in browsing in
the Art Alliance galleries housed in the aristo-
cratic building on Rittenhouse Square. But for
those members living at some distance who are
unable to come personally and select their picture,
special arrangements are made. Shipments are
facilitated; the selection of the paintings each
month is done with due regard to the needs of
the member. A full risk insUrance policy is car-
ried by the Art Alliance on every picture in the
club collection so that the paintings are fully cov-
cred at all times.

At the end of the month members may return
the painting or etching to exchange it for another.
Or if intimate association has heightened the
picture's appeal so that it is completely satisfying
from the esthetic point of view, a special plan of
purchase will be arranged. Because of the almost
universal impression that really fine art is beyond
the means of the average American, it is empha-
sized particularly that the paintings are available
at prices as low as $25. Equally emphatic is the
assurance that to borrow a picture implies no
obligation to buy.

The outstanding fact in connection with the
club is that a ten dollar investment in a member-
ship will bring paintings by the best American
artists into a home. More than 1,600 canvases
have been accepted for lending since the club was
established, representing the work of 500 artists.
There are such distinguished names among them
as l’. C. lirieseke, john F. liollinsbee, Arthur B.
Davies, Hayley Lever, George Pearse Ennis.
Gustav Cimiotti, john l3. Costigan, john R. Gra-
bach, Fred \Vagner, ‘aul Gill, Sue May Gill,
Yarnall Abbott, Bernard lladura, Gertrude Her-
sltey, \V. Lester Stevens and Frank Swartzlander.

It is estimated that each picture is circulated
three timcs and that the collection is viewed
monthly by some 50.000 people. The present col-
lection consists of 400 canvases representing the
work of 250 artists.

by private and public libra-

ries. “In other words, we are
on the verge of an era when appreciation and un-
derstanding of good painting will be just as uni-
versal as the present appreciation and understand-
ing of good books," Mr. Abbott says. "This will
constitute a great boon to cultural America.” He
points out further that the inauguration of a cir-
culating library of pictures offers encouragement
to artists in days of depression—the artist who is
pretty generally forgotten and whose product is
regarded as a luxury.

Each year the club purchases a half dozen or
more of the paintings displayed in its annual ex-
hibition to add to the nucleus of the first perma-
nent circulating picture library of living American
artists. Those purchases are made possible by
contributions from the trustees of the Christine
\Vetherill Stevenson Memorial Fund, which was
established in honor of the Philadelphia woman
who founded the Art Alliance.

Occasionally club members have special thrills
such as occurred when the \Vhitney Museum of
American Art purchased a picture by Adolphe
liorie. Many residents of small communities were
gratified to learn that New York chose the very
canvas they had selected themselves to grace
their own walls.

Practically the entire community of Blooms-
burg, Pennsylvania, visits the library each month
to see the new picture. In clubs, especially in
smaller towns. it is an event when the picture
arrives. Sometimes there is an unveiling. \Vomen's
organizations with no permanent headquarters
use a picture with its attached description and
biography of the artist for discussion. Then it is
passed on to the public schools where the students
after careful observation write out their indi-
vidual impressions of each picture. Class forums
on art are organized. School children are being
taken to the Art Alliance and the club galleries
as a reward for good work by teachers in several
schools.

(Continued on page 46)

H O C KEY has in-

Hockey In

Brooklyn creased greatly in

popularity with girls
playing on the facili-
ties provided by the Department of Parks of
Brooklyn, New York, according to J. J. Down—
ing, Supervisor of Recreation. There are now
seven hockey fields used by eighteen high
schools, private schools and clubs. The picture
shows the New York Field Hockey Associa-
tion playing on October 15th against the All-
Philadelphia team.

EA C H spring the
City Recreation De-
partment of Salt
Lake City conducts
a community-wide marble tournament which
is popular and at the same time inexpensive.
Boys who enter the tournament are divided
into age groups. The first round is played off
within each group at the school building with
former students of the school as referees. The
winners of the first round meet in districts
comprising five or six schools where the sec-
0nd round is played. The winners of these
semi-finals meet at Liberty Park during the
spring vacation and there the championship
for each group is determined.

The only expense to the Recreation Depart-
ment is the printing of rules which are placed
in every school and the provision of badges for
the winners. Local newspapers are helpful in
giving publicity.

Marble Tournaments
in Salt Lake City

 

T H E R E are over

twenty-five l o c a 1
drama clubs fostered
by the Extension
Department of the Milwaukee Public Schools
with a total membership of over 500. Each
club in turn entertains at a monthly drama tea,
arranging the refreshments, decorations and
programs and usually a good speaker. Over
150 young people are generally in attendance
at these teas. Every year at the drama tourna-
ment one outstanding player is selected from
each cast who becomes a member of the Honor
City—\Vide Drama Club, which now has 61
members. This group each year does a special
piece of work. Last year it presented “A Win—
ter’s Tale,” and this year will give “King
Lear.” The group also serves as a research
training group as the members retain their
membership in the local organization.

Drama in Milwaukee’s
Social Centers

T H E Minnehikers,
the municipal hiking
club fostered by the
Park Department of
Minneapolis, Minnesota, in its 1933 Year Book
reports that 5,052 people tramped 742 miles on
the club’s 124 scheduled hikes, while 1,951
folks attended 32 other scheduled events such
as camping trips, dances, house parties, skat—
ing parties and tours. The Minnehikers have
won an enviable place for themselves in the
roster of hiking clubs.

A Hiking Club
Reports

 

37

38 WORLD AT PLA 1'

At last - 
in :1 Swing“ Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 
    
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
 
    
    
   
   
   
     

 

Patent Pending

  
 
   
  
 
  
   
  

No more serious dan-
get from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. 511-2055

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
scat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension
elcvises are re-
versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

 

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

A complain lino of approved Playground Apparatus. such
and Pool Equipmonl. Write for now Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. O-HIO

Emergency Nursery Schools—The Federal
Emergency Relief Administration, in coopera-
tion with the United States Office of Educa-
tion, is establishing emergency nursery schools
for children of prc-school age whose parents
are needy or unemployed. The schools, which
are financed by emergency education funds and
direct relief funds, are being housed in vacant
schoolrooms, settlement houses and similar
quarters. Dr. Mary Dabney Davis of the
United States Office of Education is in charge
of the program. Thirty-one states either have
schools in operation or have submitted plans
for their establishment. ‘ -

Mothers and Babies First—“Mothers and
Babies First” is the slogan selected for May
Day, Child Health Day 1934. It is suggested
by the American Child Health Association,
which is promoting the movement, that unof-
ficial and lay organizations consult with of-
licial health and emergency relief agencies to
determine in what part of the city-wide child
health program they can assist most effectively.
The association states that it has a limited number
of copies of the 1933 May Day booklet of sug-
gestions available at 10 cents a copy and also
some free material. The address of the asso-
ciation is 450 Seventh Avenue, New York

City.

In Oswego, New York—One thousand and
eighty-seven people, or one out of every fifteen
residents in Oswcgo, New York, played tennis
last season on the seven courts provided. The
summer recreation program in this community
was highly successful. Attendance at the play-
grounds increased greatly over last year. and
activities were many and varied.

New Developments In Norfolk County,
Massachusetts—1n 1932, in connection with
the George \\'ashington Bicentennial, a num-
her of municipalities in Massachusetts initiated
a game plan whereby pupils of the high
schools were given the opportunity to partici-
pate in city planning. So successful was the
plan in Norfolk County that an appeal has
been made to the teachers of the high schools
to make a course in town planning a part of
the community civics course for 1934-1935. It
is suggested that teachers create their own
course of study by the process of experimenta-

l/VORLD AT PLAY 39

tion. By the end of the school year it is be-
lieved they will have worked out a satisfactory
and practical course of study. The plan has the
approval of the State Commissioner of Educa—
tion and of leading town and city planners.
The trustees of the Moses Kimball Fund for
the Promotion of Good Citizenship will pro-
vide $1,000 in awards for the plan. This will
be divided into five awards of $200 each which
will be given the live teachers who submit the
best course of study based on actual classroom
experience.

The Journal of Physical Education—The
Journal of Physical Education, published by the
Physical Directors Society of the Young Men’s
Christian Associations of North America, is now
being issued in new form. It is proposed to pub-
lish live numbers of sixteen pages each which will
appear in September, November, January, March
and June. Members of the Physical Directors
Society will receive the Journal free. Member-
ship in the association, which also includes mem—

bership in the Employed Officers Association, is
$2.00.

Louisville Goes Gardening— Last summer
rock gardens proved new ways of learning leaves
and plants, a bit of corner landscaping and some
very good discipline for the 645 Louisville, Ken-
tucky, playground children who piled up rocks
for the fourteen gardens. They transplanted
wood flowers and pilfered plants from Mother’s
flower boxes. They wrote poems and essays about
“rocks and rills and daffodils” and made a ritual
of watering the gardens. They cherished the flow—
ers and they never threw the rocks at one an—

other, contrary to general expectations when the
experiment was begun.

Pr0p0sed Tennis Center in Stadium for Grif—
fith Playground, Los Angeles—Construction of
a municipal tennis stadium and a battery of
modern cement tennis courts at the Griffith Mun
nicipal Playground is contemplated in a request
for Federal public work funds made by the Los
Angeles, California, Playground and Recreation
Commission and on tile with the Public Works
Advisory Committee. According to plans sub-
mitted to the committee, the project calls for the
erection of a horseshoe shaped stadium structure
with a seating capacity of 5,500 pe0ple. The

 

 

AT "A CENTURY OF PROGRESS”

LEDUDEN Playground Equipment will again thrill

thousands of happy young visitors in I934.
Sturdin built, it gives extra years of cost-free serv-
ice. Correct design insures absolute safety. These
were some of the things responsible for the selec-
tion of Louden Equipment at the World's Fair. and
for hundreds of other recreational centers every-
where. Write today for new free book on the full

line of Playground. Gym. and Pool equipment. No
obligation.

J. E. PORTER CORPORATION

I20 Broadway, Ottawo, Illinois

LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

stadium would surround a tournament court on
which important Pacific Coast matches could be
played. Adjoining the stadium would be a battery
of nine playing courts of standard dimensions
brightly lighted for night play. These courts,
added to existing batteries, would make a total
of twenty-three cement courts in one large group.
Parking facilities for 675 automobiles would be
provided. According to estimates prepared by the
department, the project would be completed at a
cost of $217,600, this amount to be made self -

liquidating through revenues produced by the
tennis center.

Volunteer Opportunities in the

Public Recreation Program
(Continued from page 5)

Our Houston Pan Hellenic has just made a con-
tribution for materials, and we hope C.VV.A is
going to furnish the labor to convert a makeshift
recreation building into a combination municipal
children’s theater and social recreation hall.

We have a limited service bureau in our de-

 

  
   
 
 

-*

——

\. —-———
.3

I —

l
v»

  

Brigh f

SUNSHINE
Clean
FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Sotvoy Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at ploy is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the don-
gers and dirt in dustl It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An opplicotion ofSolvoy Floke Colcium
Chloride on grovel or earth surfoces
effectively ends the dust nuisonce. And
Solvoy Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrogrophs pictured here
show you the results. 347cu|tures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Germs
In Oust

   

More treatment After treatment

Make this o'dustless'outdoorBeason
on your playgrounds. Sendjoday for
full information and booklet No. I159.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
Mioties and Chemical Products Manufac-
tured by the 501m Process Company

6] Broadway New York

S o LVAY

CH momma:

rLAKr-n%—eo%

 

 

 

VOL UNTEER OPPORTUNITIES

partment through which we attempt to offer
plans for parties and picnics and home play-
grounds, give advice in the selection of plays.
skits, minstrels and operettas, lend party and pic-
nic kits, costumes and stage properties to schools.
churches, lodges and other groups from all parts
of the city. A volunteer group could assume
sponsorship of this service, and by concentrating
upon it as we cannot, immeasurably increase its
value to the city at large.

Our recreation library could be made a great
instrument for good through volunteer sponsor-
ship. It must now serve in “hit or miss” fashion,
although at the moment we are indebted to
C.\V.A. for an efiicient librarian.

Volunteer sponsorship of any single playground
or community center gives it an individuality it
cannot otherwise have, and is a source of great
encouragement to its director.

The i‘faith department” in a California city
demonstrated a municipal camp where any family
could have a self-respecting vacation in the moun-
tains at cost. Faith was confirmed, and that city
now has three such self-supporting camps, but
think of the suspense of those who braved the
demonstration and what it would have meant to
have had a group like yours underwrite it!

Yours is the privilege to demonstrate forward-
looking municipal functions, pass them over to
the conununity as proven assets, and pioneer
again as only volunteers can.

Your natural associations give you the oppor-
tunity, by word and by deed, to inspire great
public recreation memorials—a model playground
after which others may be patterned in your city,
an adequate playground field house, a beautiful
outdoor swimming pool, or a great recreation
park to go down into the centuries.

Yours is the leisure to study these things as
you would bridge or golf. They will bring you a
satisfaction deeper than strictly personal recrea-
tion can ever give.

In Conclusion
Any talent, privilege or advantage is an oppor-

tunity for service.
In yotIr youth you took for granted rich anu

beautiful experiences that every human heart-
especially the young human lieart-craves, but

that come only to the privileged few regardless of

merit.
In your maturity as Junior League members

you look for opportunities to share, and great joy

A MODEL AEROPLANE ASSOCIATION 41

is in store for you in the public recreation field,
for your background of lovely homes, good
schools, beautiful parties. charming apparel, great
operas, concerts and plays, travel, visits to great
art centers, has peculiarly fitted you to be the
answer to the dreams of less fortunate youth, in
their and your leisure hours.

Frequently the professional worker has not her-
self experienced life's choicest gifts; her purse is
very limited as are her leisure hours. She lives
under the pressure of public demand. She be-
longs to the many; she must travel the proven
way. Public money cannot be spent for things
that come slowly. She cannot fan the divine spark
in the few; yet the finer things are not accom—
plished in herds.

You are free—in such time as you have to give
—to pioneer for higher standards, for the culture
of the mind, hand and soul. Your social prestige
and financial security give you the power to safe-
guard, interpret and promote any program for
public good to which you may care to commit
yourself.

The bread you cast upon the waters “comes
back cake,” for in promoting creative leisure for
the masses you are at the same time guarding and
insuring your own child’s happiness and culture.
In rendering fine human services. you gain the
spiritual satisfaction of “passing out of the moon-
less narrows of life into its illuminated high
seasf’

A Model Aeroplane Association

and How It Grew
(Continued from page 11)

our demonstrations. Next year the new events
will be a wind tunnel and a smoke screen demon-
stration.

The field director gives instructions and (lemon-
strations to Chapters which meet in the evenings.
Our policy is to give a demonstration to any
group that is interested.

Other Facts

Soon after the opening of school in September
we request a re-registration of all Chapters. AS
a result each year we have only those members
who are interested. February Ist of this year we
had a total of 2667 members in 217 Chapters.
Before the end of the season (June) it is ex-
pected the membership will be well over 3500.

The territory covered by the P.M.A.A., in ad-

 

The AMERICAN
CASTLE TOWER

THE new American Castle Tower which is illus-
trated above is one of the most rugged and strong
outdoor playground devices obtainable anywhere.
It will stand the wear and tear of vigorous youth.
The Castle Tower is commendable for any play-
ground . . . . plenty of capacity, thrills, adapta-
bility and absolutely safe. Kansas City installed
seventy—eight American Castle Towers on their city
school playgrounds in the fall of 1933. Write to-
day for complete description of this interesting
device.

 

Increasing Preference
Among Recreation Directors

The American line is complete and includes every
device for practical use in parks and playgrounds.
. . . . Whether it is north, south, east or west, the
recreation directors will tell you that the American
line of play equipment will give better satisfaction.
Write today for complete catalogue, No-R-IS.
showing our complete line.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA U. S. A.

 

AMERICAN

 

42

A MODEL AEROP’LANE ASSOCIATION

A Better Position

You can get it

Hundreds of teachers will earn two hundred dollars or more this
summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better

position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE
OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be
mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available
now in every State. They will soon be filled.

Continental Teachers Agency, Inc.
1850 Downing Street Denver, Colo.

Covers the ENTIRE United States

School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our ex-
pense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential

reports by air mail within 36 hours.

dition to Philadelphia, is Eastern Pennsylvania;
New jersey. south of Trenton, the state of Dela-
ware and the Eastern shore of Maryland.

This question has been asked of us from other
eities. Our reply has always been, “Most cities
of any size have among their citizens an aviator
or a man interested in the science of aeronautics.
Seek him out and you have the nucleus of your
teehnical leadership."

The director of our Scale Model Division was
the lirst boy to win a prize for model flying in
America. in t9t2. Since that time he has built
over I503 models, several man-carrying sail
planes and was an instructor in the Aviation
Corps during the war. There is absolutely no
dearth of leadership for this project. A story in
the newspaper will bring in the volunteers.

\\'e have prophesied that some day one of our
boys will make an outstanding contribution to the
science of aeronantics. Indeed we have evidence
that gixes us conlitlcuce in the assertion. One of
our loys is past the initial stage of developing a
model that apparently has solved the principle of
stabilization. The develoyment of the midget gas
motor has opened Up new lields of experimenta-

tion. Two of our boys are now working on radio
control of their gas ship. They declare that it is
possible for their ship to carry mail and other
small articles when their planes are perfected.
One boy has developed a retractible landing gear
on his rubber powered model. Another designed
a new ship. which he has called the auto-giro
military hydro-plane. This model is now in the
Franklin Institute. It took him over I400 hours
to complete it.

Through our stimulation three boys have en-
tered universities and are majoring in aeronau-
tics. we hear that several others are planning to
do likewise.

Our experience has at least justified the asser-
tion that model aeroplane building as a recreation
project is one of great promise. It has most of
the elements we desire in projects. We feel that
it is best to promote it during the indoor season
rather than in the summer. Playgrounds without
suitable rooms, without lockers and similar equip-
ment are too great a handicap. The type of work
requires a longer period of time than a short sum-
mer season. The project oflers a wonderful ac-
tivity for those executives who desire to promote
a winter program.

ACHIEVING SATISFACTORY COMPANIONSHIP 43

Achieving Satisfactory Companionship

(Continued from, page 16)

Thus, in the process of issuing admission
cards, the university could build up a card in-
dex containing data about its guests. The out-
side element could be systematically increased
by additional invitations, whenever the actual
attendance fell off and revealed room in the
hall for additional guests. Certain co-operat-
ing institutions such as churches, social settle—
ments, and other organizations devoted to the
welfare of young people, could also be given
the privilege of nominating persons to receive
invitations to these assemblies. In this way the
opportunity could be more definitely opened
to individuals who had a special need of it.
This element should, however, never be al-
lowed to become large enough to “queer” the
occasion in the eyes of the students or the
other outside guests.

Dealing with the Outside Guests. T w 0 lines
of treatment could be followed: (1) floor ob—
servation and suggestions, and (2) corre-
spondence. On the floor, during the games,
members of a staff assigned to this service
could be on the lookout for young people who
seemed to be “wallflowers” or out of things.
Staff members could engage such persons in
conversation, and introduce them to other
backward individuals or make simple sugges-
tions regarding obvious difficulties. These per-
sons could be orally informed of the various
instructional opportunities offered by the uni-
versity. Especially, their attention could be di-
rected to a special personal counseling service
that had been set up and was available for a
small fee.

In addition, circular letters could be sent
out to the guests, “putting over” the philo-
sophy of a successful social life and pointing
out the wide Opportunities for personality de-
velopment which the university affords. An
offer could be made to start a new class in any
particular subject that was desired if a suffi-
cient number asked for such instruction. The
guests might be further informed about the
personal counseling service, the kinds of prob—
lems covered and the fees required. The effect
of these letters would be to bring young peo-

 

FFICIAL COURTS
DOORS OR OUT

 

DIAMOND

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to
professionals. Excellent for amateurs. Just
what's needed on a playground. Will
stand up under severest treatment. Dia-
mond Officials made straight or curved toe
callt. hard on soft (dead falling). Junior
model for ladies and children.

    

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

  

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue, Duluth. Minn.

ple into the classes of the university, and the
responses from them would be a guide in de-
veloping those courses which would be of

greatest help in solving their individual and
social problems.

General Effect. The series of assemblies
would have a fine effect upon student morale
and esprit de corps. Especially would they be
beneficial in those colleges having many ex-
tension courses and many students not mem-
bers of the regular classes. The programs
would be an excellent way of displaying the
products of university work to prospective stu-
dents. Properly conducted, this new feature
of university life would be of great value to
both the young people attending and to the
institution which played host to them.

Administration. This Work would need to
be placed in competent, specially t r a i n e (1
hands. It should have a director of professor—
ial calibre and rank who was an expert in so-
cial work, the conduct of recreational activities

44 THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESSING?

College Degrees for
Students and Teachers of

Health. Physical Education
and Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION

June 11 to June 29 July 2 to August 10
August 13 to August 31

Graduate courses in Health and Physical Educa-
tion leading to standard degrees. Undergraduate
courses leading to baccalaureate degree. Special
courses in Athletic Coaching for men and women.

Reduced roost. board and railroad ratrs.
For Special Bulletin address Director of Summer Senior!

The Pennsylvania State Col leée
State College. Pa.

 

and was besides something of a “showman.”
The music and the programs should be by-
products of university work and should occa-
sion no expense. There would be simply the
Cost of such staff as was engaged -specially
for this work, the correspondence and print-
ing, and the slight additional cost of building
administration. These costs should be more
than covered by the new students brought in
by this activity.

 

 

l’rlce $4.75

Order direct from

DR. ll. W. "on
Tm: COLLEGE Bum Boos
17th Floor - 2 Park Ave.
New York City

Three Distinctive Books!
I The College Blue Book, III Edition

Standard Reference Book of Higher Education
in one place—instantly accessible—you have
the Basic Facts and Ratings of

1034 Technical and Professional Colleges
1250 Universities and Colleges

lndisoensable for vocational guidance.

The New Leisure—

A Curse or a Blessing?
(Continued from page 27)

make people let themselves go, follow their own
bent, do something they really like to do, some-
thing which grows by what it feeds upon, and
does not need the stimulus of popular favor.
Notice how quickly the popular amusements dry
up soon as the fad phase passes. The country is
blistered with rotting Tom Thumb golf courses.

The only organization we have that has the
equipment and the vision to wean us from amuse-
ments that take so much and give so little is the
National Recreation Association. For years it
has worked at helping people play. Like all pub-
lic-good enterprises supported by private benefac-
tions, it lacks money. But more than that, it lacks
vogue, public acceptance, popular leadership. It
would be timely if at this moment it could receive
the stimulus of new funds, to make it one of the
major activities for recovery, receive the ballyhoo
now being lavished on NRA, and turn the na-
tional mind toward excited interest in what we
are going to do with the new leisure when we get
it. For second only to recovery itself is this tre-

   

II The Influencing oi Character

Bears directly on home. school. recreation. Result
of Research under Rockefeller Grant.

Ready Now — price $1.15. posrpaid.

lll Year Book of Aviation for Young Men

Ready Early 1934 NEW

Remarkably illustrated
l’rlco $2.00

 

'— Vt an Book «r. Axl‘ATION

 

THE NEW LEISURE—A CURSE OR A BLESSING? 45

mendous matter of turning the natural recreation
urge into new channels, teaching people how to
live to the full extent of their beings.

Another force that can be counted on to con-
tribute is business itself. People freed so many
additional hours from work are consumers, and
they will become consumers of the equipment of
leisure. And business will teach them new tricks
for the reward of selling them the parapher-
nalia. Already a house manufacturing woodwork-
ing tools for amateurs is carrying on a promo~
tional movement that has opened workshops in
the homes, barns, garages, woodsheds, cellars and
attics of thousands of professional and business
men who hasten to their ateliers after hours with
all the eagerness of boys let out of school.

Government may be interested and ought to be
interested. Play is going to be as important as
work and may have greater and farther reaching
effects on society. It is significant that the ad-
ministration of the Civilian Conservation Camps
has included games and sports as part of its pro-
gram, and that the NRA is giving some attention
to the leisure occupations of the many its pacts
will release to more spare time. There is danger
in this of too much regimentation. We do not
want mass recreation—the whole nation doing the
same thing, a few enthusiasts following their
bend, and the crowd following the enthusiasts.
\Ve do not want every one to take up gardening,
or to play football, or to collect postage stamps,
but some doing each, according to their natures
and what appeals to them most. There will always
be enough of the same mind to create a commun-
ity of interest. Besides, there are always the
social pursuits which require cooperation, which
will draw the socially inclined together in their
leisure moods.

It should not be forgotten that play is the end
of life—is life. Work is a means to an end; the
end is play; that is, living. What we do with our
lives in our own time is what matters. Play should
never appear as a duty, but as something pursued
joyously, spontaneously, with enthusiasm, to give
color and richness and meaning to life.

Fletcher Farm Invites You!
(Continued from page 28)
2. Discussions and demonstrations of the fol-

lowing subjects and activities:
0. Methods of leading various kinds of groups
in singing or in playing, with special re-
gard for ways of developing rhythm, tone

Be Sure to Gel: Details on
NEW "Free Glide" Shuffleboard

Free-Glide Shuii’leboard equipment has in—
creased the already pOpular appeal of Shuf-
fleboard. Will not warp or break and is

‘ amazingly low in cost. Write today for
complete information, instructions how to
install and extremely low prices.

'The H. G. Cress Co.
Box NR-53 Troy, Ohio

quality, etc., and a real grasp and love of
the music.

b. Making more of the Church’s great OppOr-
tunities in congregational and choir sing-
ing and in week-day musical activities.

c. Music in the home.

d. Music in granges, 4-H clubs, county and
state fairs, as well as in urban groups.

8. The possible relationships between school
music and life ouside of schools.

f. Organization of community musical groups.

3. The making and playing of really musical
flageolets and flutes made of bamboo.

4. Singing games and English and American
country dances. If time permits, a study will be
made of at least one great orchestral composition
to see how valuable preparation for listening to
line radio and other concerts can be.

NOTE: Persons attending the Institute may select
whatever activities are of most interest to them.

How to Produce a Play
( C ontimted’from page 30)

equipment. The writer, in this brief series of
articles, has neither time nor space to describe
the making of lighting equipment.

Whether using homemade or commercial equip—
ment the producer is warned of fire hazards.
Lighting equipment should be kept away from
inflammable material. The stage should have
plenty of outlets, so as to avoid loose cable back
stage. Wires should be heavy enough to carry the
load required of them. Fuses should be heavy,
so as not to be blown out. Fire extinguishers, or
pails of water and sand, should be at convenient
points back stage. The stage manager enforces
the rule of nearly all theaters, “no smoking back
stage.”

Doors and exits in the house are marked by a
dim red light.

Careful and effective lighting plays a great part

46 CAMPING AS A FACTOR IN THE CHILD’S DEVELOPMENT

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

(formuly Notable Swimming Pools and Guido lu
Equipment and Supplies)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT. ETC.

Hoiiman-l-larris, Inc.

nu East 32nd St. New York City

in the success of any production, and poor light-
ing will ruin otherwise skillfully produced plays.
Wise groups study and experiment, improving
their lighting with each succeeding performance.

Nora: Dircclions for making homemade light equip-
ment are 10 be found in a book published by Mr. Knapp.
"Lighting the Stage with Homemade Equipment." W'aller
Baker Publishing Company, Boston.

Camping As a Factor in the
Child's Devel0pment

(Continued from page 34)

On the Athletic Field

Of great importance to the camp is a live, tech-
niCally well-lmlanced and stimulating athletic pro-
gram. This, of course, means that one should
have a well-equipped athletic field with ample
space for active and quiet games. Tennis, volley
ball, baseball and even basketball mean much to
the older boys and girls, while the smaller ones
prefer toys, swings, circle and running games.
Children enjoy training in individual Stunts which
stimulate their ability to meet challenges and over-
come obstacles. Pyramid stunts and tricks of skill
are interesting. Specially planned tournaments

 

and field days in which large numbers participate
are most popular. Various kinds of hikes are
planned.

Swimming

\Vater front practice is one of the very favored
activities in the camp, and is far-reaching in its
values. Safety is first consideration, and the in-
structor should be a licensed life saver. Swim-
ming is great exercise, developing long fiexible
muscles, body symmetry, vigor and balance. Fear
complexes are easily overcome with the right
training. Campers enjoy developing different
skills, such as learning to dive and to master the
art of life-saving. From swimming one can lead
out into many water front activities. such as car-
nivals, pageants, various meets, row boating.
canoeing and sail boating.

To spend a portion of summer at camp is one
of the greatest experiences that can come into the
life of a boy or girl. Memories of the fellowships
developed are sustaining influences which persist
throughout life.

The summer camp should be run for adventure-
seeking, forward-looking and imaginative youth.
with the highest possible standards ever in the
foreground, and with the development of indi-
vidual qualities paramount. \Vhen this is the goal,
organized camping fulfills a worthwhile purpose.

A Circulating Picture Club

(Continued from page 36)

A woman's club at Moorestown, New jersey.
reported the sale of twenty-six works of art after
interest had been aroused locally in the Circulat-
ing Picture Club.

The desire for more pictures stimulated the
groups in one section of Pennsylvania to
their own system of interchange. The Franklin
and Marshall Academy, the Y.\V.C.:\. of Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania, and the State Normal
School at Millersville, Pennsylvania, all belong to
the club. Following the selection of their re-
spective pictures each month there is a three-
way exchange so that each painting afTords triple
enjoyment.

There are now more than a hundred organiza-
tions in Pennsylvania, Delaware, New jersey and
New York State in the membership of the Cir-
culating Picture Club. Hospitals and nursing
homes are included this year for the first time.
Physicians are enthusiastically recommending the
vital charm of color to offset lassitude and pain.

 

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

Hand Book on the Use of Crafts

By Ruth Perkins. The \Vomans Press, New York.
$.75.

" HIS HAND BOOK,” states Miss Perkins in her fore-

word, “is to a large extent a record Of a series Of
discoveries Of how art is inescapany interwoven with
the whole of life.” She mentions the women's institutes
Of England working out important life values through
their groups in drama, music and the crafts; of arts in
different parts Of the country whose practice is making
life richer, and Of experiments which are resulting in the
creation of bcauty and the appreciation Of art which adds
worth tO life. \Vhile the author has given us a booklet
practical and definite in its suggestions for prOgrams and
types Of crafts. the publication is even more valuable as
an interpreter Of the values Of art tO the individual and
the community.

Adult Education for Social Needs

Edited by Thomas H. Nelson. Association Press, New
York. $1.00.

THIS OCCASIONAL study grew out Of the meeting Of the

Educational Council held in New Haven in Junc,
1933, at which the need for further adult education was
discussed in relation tO the prOgram Of the Young Men’s
Christian Associations. All Of the relevant papers pre-
sented there have been included. at least in part, in this
booklet, though other recent sources have been drawn
upon for helpful materials. The addresses and discus-
sions have been grouped under four general headings:
(1) Learning tO Think and Act on Social Issues; (2)
Methods Of Developing Adult Education Programs;
(3) Adult Education in the Young Men’s Christian As-
sociations, and (4) Appendices. Under this heading are
to be found a Report Of the Committee on Next Steps
and a bibliography and list Of source material.

Guide to Play Selection

By Milton Smith. D. Appleton-Century Company, New
York. $1.25.

THIS PUBLICATION Of the National Council Of Teachers

Of English presents a descriptive index Of full length
and short plays for production by schools, colleges and
little theaters. The list is divided into two main sections,
the first containing an index and descriptions Of full
length plays, while the second deals similarly with onc
act plays. The list of full length plays is divided intO
four scctions~—Greek and Roman, Medieval and Eliza-
bethan, 1650-1870 Plays, and Modern Plays. The list is

indexed in a way which makes it exceedingly usable.

Q

The Story-Telling Hour

Edited for the New York Story League by Carolyn S.
Blailey. DOdd, Mead & Company, New York. $2.00.

COMPLETE GUIDE illustrated with specific examples Of

all types Of stories. their uses and how tO tell them.

It contains chapters on story-telling and the drama, on

puppetry and costuming, folk lore, legends and ghost

stories, fairy tales and stories for holidays, poetry for

the story hour, the story in nature teaching, in religious

education, art appreciation and adult education. A valu-

able feature Of the book is an exhaustive bibliography

of stories and books made up Of seven hundred tested
and readily available references.

Planning and National Recovery

Published by National Conference on City Planning, 130
East 22nd StreEt, New York. $3.00

THIS VOLUME contains the proceedings of the twenty-_

fifth National Conferences on City Planning held
jointly with the American Civic Association at Balti-
more, Maryland, October 9 to 11, 1933. The addresses
are classified under the following general headings:
Planning and National Recovery: Large-Scale Regional
and Rural Land Planning, and Slum Clearance and City
Planning.

Alfred Bettman in his presidential address, “City and
Regional Planning in Depression and Recovery,” said:
“A periOd Of depression is a period of challenges Of
values, demands for justification Of that which the com-
munities have built or propose to build. A depression
period is, consequently, one which peculiarly needs tO
nurture and apply the principles and techniques Of what
we call planning. . . . Where there is understanding Of
planning, belief in it, consciousness Of its significance,
theoretically depression should result in the preservation
and increase Of appropriations for city and regional
planning rather than their destruction or decrease.”

The Appalachian Trail

Issued 'by the Appalachian Trail Conference, 901 Union
Trust Building, Washington, D. C. $.25.

OUTDOOR ENTHUSIASTS and hikers. especially those in

eastern states, will welcome this booklet telling Of
the Appalachian Trail project described as “a mammOth
amateur recreational project almost entirely the result of
voluntary efforts Of outdoor organizations and interested
individuals.” In addition to a detailed description Of the
trail, which now extends over 2,000 miles through four-
teen states from Maine to Georgia, the bOOklet gives a

history of the trail, its route, guide book date, and a
bibliography.

47

48 NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Athletic Handbook of Women's Games— 1933-1934.

Prepared by Subcommittee on Athletic Games of the
\\'01nen's Rulcs and Editorial Committee of the A.
P.E..-\. American Sports Publishing Company. New
York. $25.

The revised Athletic Handbook contains many games
for fall and winter use in the gymnasium and recreation
room. as well as out-of-doors. There are descriptions
of team games of proved popularity and easy organiza-
tion which are in themselves satisfying as well as usable
in elementary and high schools in learning skills for
some of the more difficult team games. Among these
games are long ball. soccer. baseball and Newcomb. For
those not fitted for or interested in vigorous team games
are directions for playing games of an individual type
which may be used as recreation in after school years.
such as table tennis, Badminton. deck tennis and Ameri-
can handball.

“Kit” 36.
Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Church
Recreation Service. Delaware. Ohio. $.25.

"Kit" 36 contains directions for making equipment for
Hexa. indoor box hockey. indoor tether ball and table
shinny. In addition. there are directions for twenty-live
group games and a number of rhytlunic activities. In
this issue of the Kit Mr. Rohrbough makes the announce-
ment that on account of the demand for models of games
and puzzles for use in game sh0p projects arrangements
have been made with various mountain schools and un-
employed craftsmen to construct a number of games at
little cost. Further information regarding this may be
secured from Mr. Rohrbough.

Play-Readings.

Selected and edited by Louise M. Frankenstein.
Samuel French. New York. $150.

The scenes and speeches from well-known and for the
most part modern playwrights brought together in this
collection may be used not only for practice in dramatic
classes but for radio auditions and screen tests. The
table of contents is arranged by character to simplify the
location of just the scene which fits the individual case.
This device makes the hook readily usable. The selections
were made after consultation with drama school directors
and oflicials of both radio broadcasting and moving
picture companies.

Growing Beauty.

Ily Nathalie Moulton \Vorden and Ernestine Perry.
Published by National Highway Beautification
Council. 60 Sherman Street. Springfield. Massa-
chntctts. $.50.

This school study and activity outline is organized
around its own theme—appreciation of outdoor beaut
and responsibility for its preservation and creation. Ii
is not offered as an additional subject but presents a
wealth of resources in units of work to enrich the courses
in nature. English and social studies. Activities which
may be undertaken by children from first grade through
junior high school are carefully outlined to assure
actual achievement. Factual material appears in an ap-
pended statement which also includes rclated poems and
music. stories of actual projects undertaken b boys and
girls. and a bibliograph of stories and in ormational
material. The outline off’ers unusual material in nature
appreciation which cannot fail to be of interest to recre-

ation workers.

Happy Journeys to Yesterday.

Ily George A. Hastings. G. P. Putnam's Sons. New
York. $200.

In these hrief journeys the author. who has been a
farm boy. teacher. newspaper writer. social worker and
member of a president's secretariat in the White Ioiousc.
deftly recreates the setting and the pleasures of simpler
days. We revisit with him the circus and the county far:

we renew acquaintance with country hotels and town
halls; we go fishing and "tap" the sugar-bush. Whether
we grew up in the country or the city. these leisurely
journeys along the road of recollection will have their

appeal.

Municipal Index and Atlas.

American City Magazine Corporation. 470 Fourth
Avenue. New York. $5.00.

The tenth annual edition of the Municipal Index. like
its predecessors. is a practical reference book for city.
town and county officials. engineers and others concerned
with local government. There are maps and city lists.
directories of municipal ofiicials and data on the various
services of government. One section is devoted to parks.
playgrounds. swimming pools and airports.

Money Raising Parties.

By H. D. Edgren. George Williams College. 5315
Drexel Avenue. Chicago, Illinois. $.20.

Thirty-seven plans for raising money are outlined in
this mimeographed bulletin which offers new ideas for col-
lecting money. for sales and bazaars. entertainments. sell-
ing articles. and social programs and parties.

My Book of Parties.

By Madeline Snyder. Doubleday, Doran & Company.
Inc.. Garden City. New York. $3.00.

For five years Miss Snyder. the author. has directed
the Children's Entertainment Bureau in New York City.
an actual “party factory" where parties are planned and
given. This book represents the "party factory" in print.
It is a workable guide to all kinds of entertainment for
children describing in detail games and parties which
have been tried and tested. among them a Mad March
Hare Party. a Silhouette Party. a Bird Migration Party.
a Pirate and a Gypsy Trail Party. and impromptu and
rainy day parties.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ossrn Ln. President

our: ii. Ftnuv. First Vice-President
011.1 C. thnr. Second Vice-President
on" Guam. Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUI T. Klur. Treasurer
Hownn 5. Duncan. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. EDWAID W. menu Carlisle Pa.
Wiusu Burruwosrn. Moline. lll.

CLAIUICI M. Cur It, Philadelphia. Pa.

“can I. Coum Portland Ore.

Mas. Asruus G. Cuuun, J'tcktonvitle Flt.
F. Tauau Dmsos. Locust v.11: . L. L. N. Y.
Mn. Titans: A. Eotson \Vest range. N. I.
am: ii. Firm". New York. N. Y.
iucu Fauna. New York, N. Y.
Rona? Gaunt. Baltimore. Md.
Ausrln E. Gnntrnt. Seattle. Wash.

\YILLIAH iisu Hanna”, New York. N. Y.
CHAILI! “Aron-l, New York. N. Y.

Mu. CnuLn Y. litcxox. Michigan City. Ind.
Mn. Funcu oaLsev iivot’ i'lainfreld. N. J.
Gun-awn: T. Riser New \ork. N. Y.

H. MeK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

Mas. Cttsuu D. Lanna. Greenwich. Conn.
ROIttT Lassirn. Charlotte. N. C.

ourn Ln. Boston. Mus.

.ownn l5. Looms. New York. N. Y.

I. II. MeCutor. Sprin field. Mats.

0110 T. Mama". Phi sdelphia. Pa.

WM.er A. Mar. Pittshurgh. i’a.
Can. F... Minsk", Au usll. Me.

Mu. Odom L. Mum. Voodhury. N. Y.

MIL mu W. Wmsonn. Js.. Washington. D. C.
{I C. Vsun New York. N. Y.

smallest hf. \stuao. New York. N. Y.

on: (i. \YINANT. Concord. N. 1!.

(as. WILLIAM H. Wootnn. JL, Tucson. Ari-s.

