Am I "My Brother’s Keeper" in Recreation?

AM NOT. And yet. My brother and I both may have no possible chance to play base-
ball, tennis, golf, except as all of us together through our government provide the
places. Recreation is individual——-what is one man’s meat is another man's poison.

I loathe croquet with unreasonable prejudice and I know my prejudice is unreasonable.
Croquet may be a perfect game—but not for me. Probably my attitude is just one way
of asserting my individuality.

Am I my brother's keeper in recreation? I am not. And yet. Society must expose
boys and girls and older people, too, to various activities. give them an opportunity to
obtain skill, so that they can each individually know what are their forms of activity
which give pleasure and which do not.

Many recreation activities require groups of persons. Society must take the lead-

ership in giving persons an opportunity to come together, if they wish it, at a given
time and place for a choral society, glee club, orchestra, dramatic club. basketball team.

Even in the adult group the bully is present. One is to be forced into this activity or
that, willy nilly. A certain moderate amount of leadership is essential, even with adult
groups. to keep freedom for individuals to do what they really want to do.

Why bother with recreation—with leisure time activities—let each man look after
himself. Let each man flnd out what he wants to do and do it.

The depression has revealed thousands of men out of employment with all the
time in the world, but utterly unprepared to make any use of free time. There are
many resourceful men who have trained themselves in hobbies and special skills and
have ten thousand things they want to do. These need little help from anyone. Great
numbers of the unemployed, however, have lacked conndence in themselves for any
special free time recreation activities because they have acquired no special skills, few
special interests, because they have had no special preparation for leisure.

Keeping one’s soul active is even more important than keeping one’s body alive;
for a dead soul is not much use even in a live body. If society has any responsibility
for keeping my brother's body from starving——-then I have equal responsibility for
keeping his soul alive, or rather for setting an atmosphere, giving him the opportuni-

ties which will enable him for himself to keep his spirit alive.
And yet. Such is the tendency in human nature for standardization that it is most

essential there be no forcing of any individual in his recreation. Here more than any-
where else there must be respect for individuality and rigorous discipline in holding
back from trying what will make any two persons more alike. The wealth of the
world is in preserving the essence of each person's personality. | x

We are each other’s keepers in our leisure hours——-in keeping out of each other’s \
free time as well as in coming in; we are each other's keepers in our recreation because we
all need comradeship in recreation activity just as birds need the sky and fish the water.
We need to be each other’s keepers to the extent that we all learn the rules of the game
of cooperative human intercourse through recreation——-how to be active together with
out boring. without intruding. without breaking down each other's atmosphere; how

to lead one moment, how to follow the next.
Recreatlon 1n certain of its forms is very high in human intercourse values. Its

skills are at least equally great with skills in work and experience in worship.

Much of recreation skill must be "caught," not "taught," but the art of recrea-
tion, the art of living when one is not earning one's bread, is so high a form of art that
it is worth while for individuals to put forth every effort to acquire skill in coopera-

tive recreation living.

/
//

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

January, l934
4-49

 

Publicizing Leisure Time Facilities

By Honorable ALFRED E. SMITH
Former Governor of New York State

AM INFORMED that the purpose of the hearing
I is to devise ways and means by suggestion as

to how to make better use of the spare time
that is afforded to our workers generally under
the provisions of the National Recovery Act pro-
viding for a cut in the weekly hours of em-
ployment.

Of course, I have no notion, and I don’t think
the Committee has, that we can direct anyone as
to what he is going to do in his spare time. I
don’t think that you could get very far with apy
such suggestion as that, but what I believe we
could do would be to offer them facilities for
recreation, education, or entertainment of an edu-
cational character. Certainly we could make use
in the night time of some of our very beautiful
school buildings with their facilities, provided.
however, that we are in possession of sufficient
funds and can explain the benefit to be derived
eithcr from lectures or from study in the school
houses. I believe, too, that amusement of an edu-
cational character might be ofiered in the even-
ings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. the
Museum of the City of New York, the Museum
of Natural History, or, if they are inclined to
study fish, at the Aquarium. Unless something
of that kind is done and sufficient publicity given
to it so that it will be pretty generally understood,
this extra time will be used as has most of it in
the past, and I think we can safely say, without
reflection upon the intelli-
gence of the great mass of
our people, that they idle that
time away.

I believe you will probably
have to have the cooperation
of the state and of the city
as well as of the trustees of
these various public and
quasi-public educational in-
stitutions in order to map out
a program. It will be neces-
sary to have a program and

it will be absolutely neces- promoting them.

In the December issue of RECREATION
we published a number of the ad-
dresses delivered at the first hearing
of the New York Committee on the
Use of Leisure Time held on Novem-
her 16th. This was followed by three
other hearings. \Ve present here some
of the evidenee given at the later
hearings. The plan has not been to
publish the addresses in their ehrono-
logieal order, but to attempt to give
a eross section of leisure time inter-
ests and of the agencies which are

sary to give it a great deal of publicity because
pe0ple will not know about it unless that is done.
In small communities it is all right. I remember
in Albany during the period immediately follow-
ing the war they carried on for a long while some
of the activities that they had in the evenings
while the war was on, evidently with the intent
of taking the minds of the people off the general
conditions abroad where there were so many
American boys being sent to the front. They had
community choruses, and I found those promoted
a very healthful neighborhood influence. They
gave people a chance for wider and broader ac-
quaintance and made them feel that after all there
were some forms of amusement that they could
get real pleasure out of without being compelled
to pay for it.

In New York, however, there are difficulties on
account of our size and our population and the
diversity of our groups and the distances between
places of residence. Unlike the small cities and
the large villages of the state, we have that prob-
lem to contend with, and for that reason I urge
again the necessity for a very intensive campaign
of understanding as to just what this is all about
before we can get anywhere with it.

I like the idea of making use of the armories.
That could be arranged with the state through
the National Guard. They rcmain idle a large
part of the time. There has
always been a feeling against
renting armories for public
purposes because it brought
the state into competition
with the owners of halls and
public places of assemblage
that _were paying taxes, but
certainly for this purpose
there could be no objection
on the part of the State so
far as I can see.

Then, of course, there is 3

(Continued on. page 485)
451

\

The Young 'Man and His Leisure

By FREDERIC M. THRASHER

Professor of Education
New York University

TUDII‘ZS' and observations in Chicago, New
York and other American cities have led to
the definite conviction that the unwise use

of leisure time by young men from sixteen years
of age to the early twenties is responsible for an
important proportion of serious crime in America.

In the first place, it is responsible for much
crime committed by actual members of this age
group. Young men in this age group contribute a
much larger share to serious crime in New York
City than their numbers in the general population
would warrant. This has been shown to be true
by the Sub-Commission on Causes of New York
State Crime Commission. which made a study of
the 16 to 20 year old group of offenders for New
York City in 1929. The police have often pointed
out that a large number of felonies and serious
misdemeanors, especially crimes of violence, are

increasingly the offenses of boys in their late teens

and and early twenties. ,

In the second place, the unwise use of leisure
in this age group is responsible for much adult
crime because it is in this period of late adoles-
cence that criminal experiences have a hardening
effect and prepare the way for demoralizing
habits and chronic criminology in later life. The
majority of professional criminals and habitual
offenders have a record of seasoning during this
age period, and this, more often than not, is pre-
ceded by a record of juvenile delinquency, also
due to the same general social situation in which
the unwise use of leisure plays a very important
part as a crimino-genetic factor.

In Interstitial Areas

We are speaking here, however, not of all
young men in the age group (16 to early 20’s)
delimited above. We are speaking particularly of
members of this age group who are reared in the

452

The problem of the relationship of
recreation to juvenile delinquency
and crime is one of keen interest to
all concerned with the wise use of
leisure. The effect of recreation

activities on juvenile delinquency
has been the subject of a number
of studies. Dr. Thrasher has given

careful consideration to this prob-
1cm in connection with his studies
of boy lifc. Following Dr. Thrash-
er’s address we offer the testimony
of two police officials who have
found recreation a most effective

agency in crime prevention and
cure.

 

so-called interstitial areas of our cities. The sec-
tion of the National Commission on Law Obser-
vance and Enforcement which dealt with the
causes of crime showed that in every city there
are, adjacent to business and industrial districts,
crime breeding areas which act as incubators for
juvenile delinquents, adolescent offenders, and
ultimately seasoned criminals. These areas have
been defined for twenty or more American cities
of different types, including New York City.
They are not theoretical conditions, but actual
parts of the city from which came the bulk of
criminals who engage in killing, kidnapping, rob—
bery, racketeering, drug-peddling, counterfeiting,
and all the other crimes whose cost to American
citizens runs into billions of dollars each year.
The New York State Crime Commission has de-
limited ten such areas in New York City—eight
of them in Manhattan and two in other borOUghs

It is the young men from sixteen to the early
twenties, as well as the younger boys, in areas of
this type where the unwise use of leisure consti-
tutes a threat to good citizenship and where it is,
in my opinion, more than anything else respon-
sible for the development of delinquency and
crime. Intensive study of these crime-breeding
districts, which are not peculiar to any one type
of American city, but which are to be found in all,
reveals the fact that they are areas of declining

THE YO UM: MAN AND HIS LEISURE 453

population; physical deterioration; dilapidated
housing; low rentals; low economic levels (which
means poor standards of living and chronic un-
employment) ; congestion of population and over-
crowding per house, and this in spite of declin—
ing populations and high percentages of vacant
properties, and high rates of dependency, juvenile
delinquency, and adult crime. Another marked
characteristic of such areas is the disorganization
of traditional institutions of social control, such
as family life, religious influences, voluntary as-
sociations of a fraternal, social and economic
character, etc. '

The absence of satisfying home life and of ade-
quate opportunities for wholesome recreation for
all groups is marked in these areas, but it is
probably more striking in the case of boys (and
girls also) of the age group from sixteen to the
early twenties than any other group. This absence
of leisure time opportunities in such areas con-
stitutes the negative situation which acts as an im—
portant crimino-genetic factor, in that it makes

possible the operation of the positive influences

which promote delinquency and crime.

The Social Contagion of the Streets

Intensive study of the positive forces which are
embodied in activities which become substitutes
for the wholesome use of leisure reveals a variety
of crimino—genetic fact0rs of great importance to
any plan of community re—organization of crime
prevention. The prime condition for the de-
moralization of young people in these areas is to
be found in the informal education and social con-

tagion of the streets and all the private and com-1

mercialized institutions which are adjuncts of the
streets and which cater to the pleasure-seeking
impulses of these young people. The streets and
the institutions of the streets grant no degrees
and give no diplomas, but they educate with fatal
precision. So effective are these destructive in—
fluences that they are likely to bring to naught all
the efforts of formal education, which in these
areas is usually suffering from a serious case of
what W. F. Ogburn calls “cultural lag.”

The prevalence of street life in these areas is
brought about in part by congestion of popula-
tion which results in swarms of young pe0ple in
a given block, and in part by the crowding of the
family in inadequate, unattractive home quarters.
The boys in areas of this type find nothing to in-
terest them at home in their leisure hours and in
many cases they find actual conflict and misun

derstanding at home. The result is that they take:
to the streets and you have growing up on the
street a community of youth which is more or
less independent of all adult controls, but which
is responsive to most of the influences of de-
moralization which abound in such districts. It
is a community which has a real entity of its own,
which grows and develops its own standards of
conduct and public opinion, and which transmits
its demoralizing social heritage to the next gen-
eration of youths entirely independently of the
social values of the larger conventional commun-
ity. The spirit of this youthful community breeds
crime and lawlessness because of the very way in
which it has developed in the uncontrolled and
vicious environment that surrounds it. Its spirit
and its tradition are transmitted irrespective of
who comes into the area or who moves out, and
its social controls are embodied in a consensus of
ideas. sentiments, attitudes and habits which have'
a reality, an independence, and a continuity that is
not affected by the individual youths who enter
into it or leave it. It is the reality and independ-
ence of this community which so often escapes
those who are attempting to solve the leisure time
problems of young people who are a part of it.

The actual time spent on the streets by young
men in the age group in question takes a variety
of forms. Gambling is ubiquitous and this in—
cludes, of course, the traditional crap-shooting
and card games. The better organized gambling
rackets, however, are also prevalentin these areas
—such as policy slips and other types of lotteries.
Some types of athletics are popular in spite of the
great difficulties of playing these games in traf-
fic and the complaints of local residents about the
noise and the breaking of windows. By all odds the
most popular game of this sort in New York City
is stickball and there is hardly a street gang that
cannot boast its stickball team. Games are usually
played for a money-pool which is made up by the
members and friends of the team. The playing
of this game in the streets is contrary to city
ordinances and the games are constantly being
interrupted by policemen.

It is inevitable that out of this street life grow
the gangs and athletic and social clubs which are
often very demoralizing in their effects Upon their
members. They serve as clearing houses for all
sorts of undesirable information, attitudes and
habits. It is in these street groups that the boy

or young man acquires a feeling of independence,
a disrespect for law and authority, an ability to

454 THE YOUNG MAN AND HIS LEISURE

look after himself away from home. a philosophy
of fatalism and cynicism, and not least of all a
knowledge of the technique of crime which serves
as an invitation for him to participate in the
criminal enterprises which he learns to know so
well, or to attempt to develop criminal undertak-
ings on his own account. Muchiof this social
contagion takes place merely through conversation
on the streets and .in the many institutions which
are adjuncts of the streets and which serve as
hangouts for local groups.

In the promiscuous associations of the streets
and its local hangouts the boy and young man
comes into direct contact with questionable char-
acters, gangsters, and racketeers. He sees how
they “get by” and begins to feel that getting
caught is more disgraceful than the actual com-
mission of a crime. Since these areas have high
rates of delinquency and crime, every block has
its stories of the men who have gone to prison,
and the boys on one New York block boast
proudly that more men from that block have gone
to Sing Sing than any other block in their local
community. Every block has its own local de—
linquehts and criminals who are operating and
actually carrying on criminal activities success-
fully at any given moment. Too often the boys
and young men are personally familiar with the
success of the'local gangsters, bootleggers, and
racketeers whose shining Packard or Lincoln
cars set a standard of conduct and success for the
whole neighborhood. This hero worship in young
men is practical, and it measures success not in
the idealistic terms set forth in the history books
at school but in material goods that it can see and
in the very real power that it knows is actually
wielded by the criminal and his political allies.

Local “Hang-Outs”
The adjuncts of the

areas are sources of demoralization, and many of
them are actual centers of criminal contagion. I
think the distinction between the leisure of unem-
ployment and other kinds of leisure is very largely
an academic distinction. If you are solving actu-
ally the problem of leisure time, you have to in—
clude the problem of the enforced leisure of un-
employment which is more or less chronic in
areas of the type of which I am speaking; and
this leads to another statement. It is in such
places that mutual excitation prepares the way
for action and that planning of crimes takes
place, and this is all the result of the spending of
leisure time, often in these areas the enforced
leisure of unemployment, in ways that are de-
moralizing and socia‘. situations that stimulate an
interest in wrong—doing.

Yet it is not to be supposed that playing pool.
playing cards (even for money), or drinking in
themselves lead to crime. It is the associations
and the lack of wholesome supervision or of
social control in the places where these activities
take place that are so demoralizing. And this
leads to the statement of another important point ;
namely, that any place which may serve as a hang-
out for boys and young men in these areas is
equally an adjunct of the streets and may be
equally demoralizing, whether it be a candy store.
a cigar shop, a restaurant, a shoe shop, a moving
office, a soda fountain, a bakery, or any other kind
of establishment whatsoever which may serve as
a congregating place. As a matter of fact. in-
tensive studies of these areas show that many
types of business places serve this purpose and
act as focii of social contagion for the spread of
delinquent attitudes and practices.

The important point is that these boys and
' young men are thrown upon
the streets and that ade-
quate facilities for whole—

street, which are the 'pri-
mary resources of the de-
linquency area for the use
of leisure time by boys and
young men, are the com—
mercialized pool rooms, pri-
vate social and athletic
clubs, saloons, speakeasies,
gambling rooms, taxi-dance
halls, and burlesque thea-
tres. While some of these
places are well supervised,
most of them in delinquency

“Boys in gangland areas enjoy an unusual
freedom from restrictions of the type
imposed by the normal controlling
agencies in the better residential areas
of the city. . . . There is no dearth of ex-
citenlent in this disorganized environ-
ment, and in the gang they find an in-
strument for the organization of their
play and the satisfaction of most of their
wishes. . . . . The problem of competing
with the care-free activities of the gang
is a difficult one and requires a high de-
gree of intelligence and understanding
on the part of any leader or agency at-
tempting to meet it.”——Frederic M.

Thrasher in The Gang.

some recreation are lacking.

A survey of the facilities
for wholesome recreation
for young men in the age
group from sixteen to the
early twenties will reveal in
almost every city a dearth
of such opportunities in the
delinquency areas. In this!
type of district this age
group now constitutes an
unusually large proportion
of the population, because

THE YOUNG MAN AND HIS LEISURE 455

of falling birth rates among the classes who live
in these areas. Just at this time this group is un-
usually large in the population. In other words,
there are fewer children under sixteen in these
areas now than there were ten years ago, and
conversely, there are more between the ages of
sixteen and twenty-one in proportion to the other
age groups in the general population.

The Dearth of Opportunities

The facilities for the wholesome recreation of
the sixteen to twenty-one year old group are very
limited. They take the form chiefly of the senior
departments of Boys’ Clubs, the senior work of
social settlements and neighborhood houses.
Young Men’s Associations of various religious
.denominations, young men’s clubs connected with
churches and similar groups, but all of these re-
sources combined in any one of these areas, if
they exist at all, are so meagerly equipped with
staff and facilities for meeting the needs of this
particular type and age group of young men that
the percentage actually reached is almost negli-
gible. The public recreational opportunities for
young men of this particular group are also woe-
fully inadequate and often are not supported with
adequate fUnds which make possible the active
leadership required. That is the point, you see.
The resources for the wise use of leisure time for
this particularly critical age group in crime-pro—
ducing areas are absent or very inadequate.

Another striking fact is the lack of coordina-
tion among the various recreational agencies‘at—
tempting to deal with this age-group and a gen-
eral failure to see the recreational needs of a given
community as a whole. The problem resolves
itself primarily into two phases:

1. First it is a problem of taking stock of the
recreational facilities for this age group that actu-
ally are in existence in a given local community
and which with better financial support and direc-
tion might be made to function more effectively

in reaching a larger number of young men in
crime-breeding areas.

2. Secondly, it is a problem of creating and de-
veloping additional agencies and opportunities for
wholesome recreation, both public and private,
which shall penetrate the crime-breeding areas
and counteract and break down the demoralizing
influences which so completely possess the mem-
bers of this age-group in these areas at the pre—
sent time. The facilities are not adequate. We

must develop additional facilities and support
better the facilities which we have.

We have pointed out how our cities have ne-
glected the boys and young men in their inter-
stitial areas and how, as a result, they have reaped
an unprecedented crop of crime which with the
past few years of extensive unemployment among
young men in these areas, is not yet completely
harvested by any means. Here is the fruitful
field for crime prevention: through the virile and
intelligent control of the leisure time of boys and
young men. It is better to expend energy and
thought on this problem than to spend it in catch-
ing and convicting our fourth offenders, important
as they may be. It is better to spend $1,500 in a
local crime prevention program based on the con-
structive control of leisure than to spend $750,000
to convict one public enemy!

Supplementary Document

Title of Study by Herman Balen, 810 W. Hunt-
ingdon Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

“Effect of Play Areas of Philadelphia Bureau
of Recreation Centers, on Rate of Male Delin-
quents, Aged 16 to 20 Years Inclusive.” ~
Source of Statistics

Crime Prevention Bureau, Department of
Police.

Bureau of Recreation

Consists of 38 centers, 21 swimming pools not
situated in any of the above centers. Twenty of
the centers were not supervised during Septem-
ber, October, and November of 1932, were super-
vised during June, July, and August of the same
year. The other eighteen centers were super-
vised during the entire six month period that the
study was made.

Play areas not taken into account separately,
but taken into consideration as a whole, due to
irregular opening and closing, open only in the
summer months of July and August, were the
play areas of the Board of Education, Philadel-
phia Playgrounds Association, Smith Memorial
Playgrounds and the Boy’s Clubs and Settlement
Houses.

Summary of Most Important Findings, or
Conclusion

I. A six per cent decrease in delinquency in the
fall months as compared to the summer
months.

2. Sixty-five per cent of the 4,960 cases studied
were found to be living within eight blocks
of some bureau or recreation center.

456

3.

U1

IO.

II.

THE YOUNG MAN AND HIS LEISURE

That the twenty partially supervised centers
showed that during the supervised months of
June, July, and August, 34 per cent -of the
delinquents lived within eight blocks of the
centers, for the unsupervised months of Sep-
tember, October, and November, for the same
centers, only 32%. A comparison of the
eighteen centers that were supervised for the
entire six months showed 33% for the sum-
mer months, 30% for the fall months. Super-
vision of the bureau’s centers does not, there-
fore, have any effect upon the rate of
delinquency.

That a ten per cent increase in delinquency of
boys living over eight blocks from a recrea—
tion center in the fall months over the sum-
mer months may be attributed to the closing
of the Board of Education’s playgrounds; the
play areas of Philadelphia Playgrounds Asso-
ciation, and the twenty-one swimming pools
of the Bureau of Recreation not situated in
any of the Bureau’s playgrounds.

. On the average there is a regular increase in

the percentage of delinquency as the place of
residence is further away from the play-
ground up to a distance of four blocks and
then there is a symmetrical decrease in the
rate to eight blocks away from the centers.
This is not true for each individual center.

That the proportion of white boys arrested to
negroes, is three to one. But according to the
negro population as compared with the white
p0pulation, the probability of a negro being
arrested to that of a white boy is two to one.

. That in the 16 to 21 year group, 19 year old

boys were arrested most frequently.

That old sections of Philadelphia show the
highest rate of delinquency.

That older boys are arrested frequently out-
side of their own home neighborhood, and
that this may vary, according to the stimulus
provided.

That sixty per cent of the offenses include
I. Corner lounging
2. Disorderly conduct
3. Assault and battery by auto
4. Predatory delinquencies
5. Malicious mischief

That an average of forty-four per cent of all
the delinquents were discharged during the
six month period.

12. That 10.0 per cent of the delinquents had no
home in the city or claimed residences outside
of the city.

CHAIRMAN FOSDICK : Professor Thrasher,
what do you think should come first in these in—
terstitial areas you speak of—parks and play-
grounds developed in accordance with the city
plan, or indoor facilities provided by boys’ clubs,
for example, or perhaps the more general open-
ing of public schools or more adequate leadership
in recreational activities in connection with these
facilities? How do you rate this in terms of
importance?

MR. THRASHER: I think first of all you need
to know what the resources are, and that seems to
be where we have lacked in the past. In other
words, first we need to have the facts on which
to base our program, to see how these various
agencies are related to each other, and then the
second question can be answered. It would vary
greatly in different communities. Some of these
crime—breeding areas have good facilities for pri-
vate recreation, some have good facilities for pub-
lic recreation, some have poor coordination of fa-
cilities. Some have few private facilities and good
public facilities. So that would be entirely a mat-
ter of what the local community needs, and I
don’t think you could make a blanket answer to
that question. You would have to study the local
facilities and base your program on what is
available.

MR. Fosmcx: You speak of the fact that fa—
cilities are not adequate. Is the non-use of these
facilities, the agency programs, those that do not
exist, due to absence of other agencies, to the lack
of information about what they have to offer, or
to the unwillingness of the boys to patronize them?

MR. THRASHER: It is due to all three. If all
the boys were informed and were willing to pa-
tronize them, there would not be nearly enough
facilities. You would have to build more gym-
nasia, you would have to have many more parks
and playgrounds. On the other hand, we see in
some local communities parks that are not being
used, whereas the neighboring streets are filled
with children, because you don’t have equipment,
you don’t have adequate leadership in the play-
ground or the park.

In other communities you find a great demand
for gymnasia, and you find empty gymnasia, sim-
ply because the people who need the gymnasia do

(Continued on. page 486)

Leisure in Its Relation to Crime

ONSTRUCTIVE rec-
C reation for our

people, both old
and yOUng, is one of
the most vital aspects
of conditions which are now confronting people
of our nation. '

The problem of proper recreation for the
young is one which always confronts us if we
give thought to the urgent need of taking such
steps as will prevent children from becoming de-
linquents. 'Unless the child, and particularly the
boy, is given opportunity to indulge his imagina—
tion and to become interested in recreation and
sports which are not only
wholesome but are character
building, we can look forward
to no diminution in the num-
ber of our delinquents, and
when it is recalled that delin—
quency is the first step taken
by youth to a career of crime,
the necessity for recreation fa—
cilities for the youth is apparent.

The most forward-looking step taken in this
direction was the establishment of the Crime Pre-
vention Bureau in the Police Department of the
City of New York. I would stress'the leisure-
time activities sponsored by the Crime Prevention
iureau—baseball teams, boxing clubs, swimming
teams, basketball teams, and other activities. In
individual cases this has made it possible for
many children to develop their talents.

The reduction in the hours of labor for the
adult will again present to society a problem that
must receive serioLIs consideration. Unquestion—
ably many persons with added leisure time will
desire to improve themselves in any possible way
which may be open to them, provided that the
conditions under which they embrace such oppor-
tunities are not surrounded by too restrictive
regulations.

Added opportUnity should be provided for our
citizens to have access to libraries, art and natural
history museums, free concerts, both winter and
summer, and a greater abundance of musical en—
tertainment. For those who desire recreation in

By Honorable EDWARD P. MULROONEY

Former Police Commissioner

New York City

“Unquestionably leisure time has a
distinct hcaring upon the good
order and law observance in any
community, and leisure time not
properly applied and not guided
will undoubtedly result in an in-
crease in dclinquency and crime.”

the open, facilities
should be enlarged for
them to indulge in
sports, and opportuni
ties afforded for our
people to enjoy in larger numbers the pastimes
of fishing. hunting, hiking, etc. The permitting
on Sundays of both professional and amateur
sports such as baseball and football has brought
about splendid results.

I should like particularly to stress to you de-
linquency. Last year in the City of New York
29 per cent of all males arrested for felonies
(that is, for serious crimes) were of the age of
eighteen years and under. In
the entire United States this
year for the first six months
for the serious crimes, felon-
ies, there were more arrested
at the age of nineteen than any
other age, closely followed by
those of the age of eighteen,
clearly indicating that the
crime problem today is a problem of youth. And
you could have no criminal youth unless you in
the first instance had delianents, and you will
not have the delinquent if the boy is taken in
tharge before he becomes a delianent and is
afforded wholesome recreation.

It is an obligation that rests upon the parent at
home, the church. the school, and society, and you
cannot avoid it. We have got to be awakened to
it, and it is useless toitalk of crime when we don’t
attack it at its root.

1 would further like to stress the good that
came of legalizing sports on Sundays. The gath-
ering of immense throngs, thousands and thou—
sands of people, at baseball, football, all outdoor
sports, is a very, very splendid thing from the
police standpoint. Unquestionably where people
gather for such purposes, whether as spectators
or participants, they are well occUpied so far as
society is concerned, and I know of no better
barometer to judge the good order of a commun-
ity than can be had by getting some indication as

(Continued on page 487)
457

Leisure and Crime Prevention

By HENRIETTA ADDITON

Deputy Commissioner of Police
In Charge of Crime Prevention Bureau

New York City

not want to try to deve10p our pr0gram of rec-

reation from the point of view of what we
think is good for other people. Can we not sim—
ply assume that_in general people wish to use their
leisure time to enrich their own lives, and that the
most helpful form of community action is to
make it possible for them to do just that? When
recreation is used in social case work for its men-
tal or physical therapeutic value, that is, to ad—
just socially unadjusted people or anti-social peo-
ple, that is of course another matter and it
requires special individual adaptions.

Providing recreation for the average normal
adult is different also from providing it for chil-
dren. Adults have in the main their own interests
and their sense of values fairly well established,
while children are forming theirs. We realize this
in the deve10pment of health habits. For instance,
we know that if we take good care of a child’s
first teeth, the adult’s teeth problems will be
greatly reduced. The same thing is true of the
formation of social and recreational habits. The
right use of leisure must be built into the child’s
habits early.

Certain people in our country have always had
leisure, that is, freedom from the economic neces-
sity to work. What they have done with their
leisure has depended to a considerable extent on
their background. To some it has given an op-
portunity to develop cultural and social values.
To others, money and leisure have served merely
as means of expressing their vanities.

A few years ago I participated in a study made
of the leisure time interests of a group of children
in Brooklyn. The children were asked what they
wanted to do if they had their choice. Their re-
quests were modest and quite proper, but showed
the need for an extension of the work of our
existing recreational agencies; for more commun—
ity centers and libraries; for more opportunities

458

IT CANNOT be emphasized too much that we do

to get out into the country, and especially for lead-
ership. The details of this can be seen in the sur—
vey of “Work for Boys in Brooklyn,” published
by the Research Bureau, Welfare Council of New
York City. Dr. Deardorff who directed this study
reported that the desire of many of those chil-
dren from the crowded sections of our city for
outdoor recreation and for country life experi-
ences was truly poignant.

When we discuss recreation as a factor in
crime prevention we must realize that even if we
provide recreation for 90 per cent of the people
and we don’t in some way reach the potential
criminals with this recreation, or we aren’t able
to get the potential criminals to take part in it,
we can’t say that we are truly preventing crime
through recreation. And of course we know that
some of the children who are most likely to be
criminals are those who are most reluctant to ac-
cept the organized recreations which we have
provided for them.

Finding Opportunities

In our work in the Crime Prevention Bureau
in the New York City Police Department, we
have tried to find these children; we have made a
particular campaign to find the children who
especially need recreation and then to sell to them
the activities of the recreational agencies, not just
to say, “you can swim at such and such a place,”
but almost to take them by the hand and show
them what it will mean to them when they have
become acquainted with the place to swim there.

In our individual work with these children we
use all the available boys’ and girls’ clubs in set-
tlements and churches and the other organized
places for recreation, but there are not enough
such places in any part of the city, and some parts
of the city are completely barren of any recrea-
tional resources. Everywhere we 13nd need for
the extension of the work of the Camp Fire Girls.

LEISURE AND CRIME PREVENTION 459

the Boy and Girl Scouts, you and your clubs and
recreational groups of all kinds. Equipment for
arts and crafts, for athletics, for reading, for play
and self-expression, is needed in much greater
meaSLIre than now exists, especially for those chil-
dren who are known to be getting into trouble and
are endangered in body, morals or mind. The
neglect in providing proper places results in the
development of improper ones. Unsupervised
social clubs are formed by boys and girls throngh-
out the city. Meeting places are uSLIally in base-
ments and the conditions found in many of them
are extremely demoralizing. But when we break
these up we should be able to provide other
avenues for sociability. The same thing is true
when we break up the gangs of boys on the
streets or when we take young boys out of pool
rooms where they are in violation of the law.
The enormous number of children, of adoles
cents and of adults in New York City have needs
which have never been really visualized. This is
especially true for the group between sixteen and
twenty-one. Last year we had arrested in New
York City 39,186 boys and girls of this age group.
We have made in our Crime Prevention Bureau a
special effort to reach that particular group for
whom so little recreation which is attractive to
them has been provided. If you go to the police
line-up you will see these boys practicaily every
morning—boys sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years
of age, brought in for serious offenses, for felon-
ies, stick-ups and burglaries of all sorts. And so
often they tell this story, and you know it is true
A boy will say he was standing on the street cor-
ner. He had nothing to do and some other fellows
came along and said: “Come with us. You can
make a little easy money.” And then Usually the
more innocent he is of any evil intention the more
likely he is to be caught with the gun or the
stolen automobile. This last year particularly,
when so many boys and "WW
girls have come out of
school without any jobs to
go to, when they had
hoped after school to help
their families financially.
the situation has b e en
especially serious. In order
to help meet some of these
problems last summer we
organized considerable rec-
reation work ourselves. It
was an improvised sort of

“All over this city we should have service
stations whcre people-wmen, women, chil-
dren, entire families, will have opportuni-
ties to cultivate health, powers of leader-
ship and self expression, and the arts of
just plain friendship and sociability. We
need the best thought of the communitv
and we need democratic participation in
formulating such a program, if we are to
deve10p a culturc in which leisure will be
really used to enrich life. And when we
have done that, we shall have gone a long waY-
way on the road to real crime prevention.”

thing and we did it because there weren’t other
resources, not becaLIse we thought the Police De—
partment really ought to be running recreation.
But we had 7,000 boys organized in baseball, in
boxing, swimming and other activities and we
took children on hikes, as well as giving them
organized athletics.

Nature Activities Vital

I have been particularly interested in the hikes
on one of which I went myself with a grOLIp of
125 children from the East Side some of whom
had never before seen Riverside Dive on the west '1
side. We had with us a science instructor who '
talked to the children about the rock formation,
about the glacial period and the Indian pot holes.
You would have been amazed to see how en-
tranced those children were listening to a little
popular presentation of that sort’of thing. So we
have been developing new science clubs. We are
trying to start some of them in certain sections of
the city where there are no recreations for the
children who are interested. This year, too, we
are forming music and dancing clubs. We feel the
need for the provision of more camps and more
opportunities for trips into the country.

We wish particularly there could be found some
way of providing pets for city children. In the
country they mean so much to children. To be
sure, city children have the zoo and they enioy it,
but after all you can’t pet a tiger or even an owl!

A Broad Program Needed

The sociability motif, both with animals and
with humans, runs through all recreational de—
sires. In the Brooklyn study the principal reason
given by the children for liking clubs was the op-
portunity afforded to make friends. As one girl
picturesquer expressed it, “I like to belong to a
club because you meet new faces and sometimes
become the best of friends
with them.” Many chil-
dren who take up social
activities do so out of de-
sire for companionship.
and that goes for adults as

well. The Welfare Council
has published “The Moth-

ers’ Clubs in Settlements”
study, which brings that
out in a very interesting

(Continued on page 487,)

Leisure and Mental Hygiene

By GEORGE K. PRATT, MD.

New York City Committee for Mental Hygiene
State Charities Aid Association

it that people want from recreation and leisure

time?” Mental Hygiene—and we are using
the term here in its implication that it deals for
the most part with perfectly average normal ma-
terial instead of pathological—has, of course, no
standardized answer. There is only one thing that
does seem perfectly clear, and that is that the
things people want from recreation and leisure
are many, but not all of the people want the same
thing. The result is that from the mental hygiene
point of view, with its insistence upon the need
for recognizing individual differences, we find
that people who are interested or can be poten-
tially made interested in recreation, have a variety
of motives for it. Some of them, for example,
want recreation and leisure time activities for
purposes of change and relaxation pure and sim—
ple, or at least simple, if not pure. Some others
of them want it for purposes of escape.

\Ve are all of us familiar with the type of in-
dividual who must keep up a frantic sort of race
with himself in order to keep his own difficulties
from overtaking him. But I think the nearest
that comes to a common denominator in a search
for things that people want from recreation is
that thing known as security. Now I am referring
not to economic security here, althOUgh we recog-
nize the tremendous importance of that. Rather
I am thinking of emotional security.

IN 1Ts ATTEMPT to answer the question, “What is

Emotional Security

From the point of view of emotional security—-
and that term can be thought of as synonymous
with mental health and good social adjustment.
All of us need to convince ourselves that there are
two things that we possess: First of all, a realiza-
tion that we belong, that we belong in childhood to
our families, later on to our schools, to our neigh-
borhoods; still later, a realization that we belong

460

to our communities and perhaps, if or when we
achieve emotional maturity, a realization that we
belong to society at large. But the feeling that we
belong alone is not sufficient. The psychiatrist be-
lieves that there must be two other things added
there. One of them is the realization that we are
accepted by the group of which we happen to be a
part, and the other is the realization that we are
needed by that group.

Now, the second main ingredient in feeling
emotionally same is a realization that there is
something in life that we can do to win legitimate
recognition and success by means of our own ef-
forts without having to depend for that recogni—
tion or success on the personal favoritism or
someone else. And if any one of us, any human
being has these two convictions, then he is emo-
tionally secure and he can withstand in most in-
stances the vicissitudes of unemployment, the tre-
mendous grueling material suffering, the melan-
cholia and depression that are inevitable. People.
however, who are employed and for whom the
present economic situation is not a great threat
are likewise in need of being made emotionally
secure.

With the increased use of leisure time in the
future, more and more will the need for produc-
ing emotional security become important. And so
it seems to me that the establishment of recrea-
tion programs—and I am using that now in its
broad sense to include not only routine types of
recreation but adult education, vocational re-edu-
cation, and so forth—programs of recreation and
activities for the use of leisure time should then,
in my opinion, be based largely on the individual
need of the person who is to utilize them. This
means at the outset then that mass programs of
recreation are likely to be less successful than pro-
grams which have been individualized, and in the
process of individualization made humanized.

LEISURE AND MENTAL HYGIENE 461

We find that people need all sorts of things in
these recreational programs, and it is not well for
us as leaders in recreation or in some of these
other activities to impose our ideas of what the
individual needs on him. It is an old adage in
social work that a person will take from a case
work interview those things that he needs, and
I think the same thing is true with regard to edu—
cational opportunities. He will take those things
that he needs and he will reject those that to him
are unimportant.

We may find ourselves baffled and perhaps a
bit irritated by the type of individual who will not
easily mix in group games, but unless we are keen
enough to make some sort of a personality study
of that individual to see what group games mean
to him or what his reluctance is really based on.
if we dragoon him into them we are not serving
the purposes of his mental health or his security.

The need, therefore, for individualized pro—
grams of recreation implies that there are human
differences, individual differences in a great many
things which must be taken into consideration if
we are to meet the broad needs of a great many
individuals. These individual differences which
must be recognized include such things as differ—
ences in economic status, in social and cultural
status, in personality, and so forth. I have seen
many times, as I know you have, instances of
theoretically very desirable and sound recreational
programs falling perfectly fiat because they have
consisted of a type of activity that the individuals
living in the particular neighborhood where that
activity was centered were
unable to use, largely be-

ers who are brought into recreational programs
primarily designed for persons of more modest
cultural and educational interests. I have also
seen the reverse of that.

And so what I should like to suggest in closing
is that in almost every other field of social work
today the mental hygiene point of view has to
some extent at least permeated the philosophies.
the policies and the practices of most types of
social agencies. It seems to me that organized
recreation no less than these other types of social
activities should recognize the need for some
sensitization on the part of recreation personnel
for dealing with the human factor.

Now it is a great temptation for all of us to
forget the fiesh and blood man or woman whonf
we are in our large activities trying to help, and
yet our efforts are bound to fail to a great extent
unless we do keep that recognition in mind. So I
would like to suggest that perhaps as one outcome
of these hearings here greater attention may be
given to the sensitizing of professional personnel
in the various fields of recreation in order that
they may have a better understanding of hUman
behavior, its sources, its motivations, in order
that the potential values of recreation can be
brought out to_ the utmost.

'MIss FISHER: Dr. Pratt, I take it you would
be very much in sympathy with any attempts to
develop individual counciling with reference to
leisure.

DR. PRATT: Yes, with this safeguard. Indi-

vidual counciling, and I am

expressing only my own

cause of economic, personal
or social differences. I

I have seen a recreation
leader who was very much
distressed by the fact that
he couldn’t get a certain
group of people in his
neighborhood to join in folk
dancing. It turned out that
the particular group hap-
pened to be a group of very
s hy, self-conscious indi-
viduals who simply could
not, because of their own
personality needs, bring
themselves to this particu-
lar point of view. I can
think of white-collar work-

“A vigorous draining-off or even an ex-
plosion of nervous energy, from time to
time, seems to be essential for thorough-
ly normaI living. . . . When one is de-
prived of the opportunity to find Iegiti-
mate release for accumuIations of nerv-
ous energy through one’s job, then wise
social workers and the wise community
in general will provide other outlets.
. . . Communities will do weIl to make
ample provision for organized group ree-
reation (particularly activities in which
whole groups participate, as contrasted
with isolated participation by singIe in-
dividuals); concerts, which permit cer-
tain temperaments to discharge emo-
tional feeIing; pageants, spectacles of
one sort or another—historical episodes,
parades, boxing matches, and generous

showings of movies.”-—Dr. Pratt, m

Morale.

personal opinion now, has
been badly mauled a nd
abused no less by its friends
than by its enemies. There
seems to be no professional
field today that deals with
h u m a n relationships but
feels that by very virtue of
that interest it is adequate
to take on the task, the ex-
traordinarily delicate and
frequently dangerous task,
of counciling or guiding
another human being. So
if you will allow me to safe-
guard that statement by
saying yes, I thorOUghly
(Continued on page 488)

The Place of Drama in Leisure Time Life

s I UNDERSTAND the situa-
' A tion you are appointed to
investigate the question
of how the increased leisure,
which we hope will be created
under the NRA, may be used
most pleasantly and profitably,
and you wish me to attempt
to tell you the place drama can
play in one’s leisure time life.
This is at once a responsibility
and a pleasure—a responsibil—
ity because I realize how dif—
ficult it is to present ade—
quately such a subject; and a pleasure because
the study and practice of drama, in my own life.
a leisurue time pursuit at first, has been for
many years my vocation, and I have always found
it, both as an avocation and a vocation, a fas-
cinating and satisfying pursuit. I shall try to
make the three or four important points that
occur to me in connection with this subject, and
then hope that your questions will enable me to
complete the picture.

which makcs
appealing.”

In the first place, we should probably start by
recognizing the fact that in New York City there
is already much activity that springs from drama.
There are dozens, probably hundreds of groups
engaged in this activity, most of which naturally
takes the form of putting on plays. This work
has become an accepted part of classroom prac-
tice in many schools, and in addition most schools
have organizations which present plays publicly
once or twice, or even more often, a year. Then
there is much similar activity in connection with
settlement houses, church clubs,.young people’s
societies, boys’ clubs, women’s clubs and other
like groups. Finally there are also in the city a
number of soscalled Little Theatres, or non-pro—
fessional groups devoted to the production of
plays. Some of these groups are more or less in-
dependent ;_ some are connected with colleges and
universities, and with Y.M.C.A.’s and Y.M.H.
A.’s; and some are parts of the organization of
workers in some of the trades, such as large de-
partment stores. Dramatic art is already being
practiced as a leisure time pursuit in many places.

462

By MILTON SMITH

Teachers College
,Columbia University

“Dramatic art is as all-embracing
as lifc itsclf for it involvcs at times
the practice of all the other arts
and of all the othcr crafts. It is a
sort of synthcsis of other arts and
crafts, and perhaps it is this fact
It

In view of this large vol—
ume of activity, you might
reasonably ask if the market
is not well enough supplied.
But anyone working in this
field would feel that such is
not the case, and that it never
can be until each person inter-
ested has been given an op-
portunity. There are doubt-
lessly thousands of people in
the city who are interested,
and thousands more who could
easily be interested, who at
present have no available outlet. Anyone con-
nected with this sort of activity is constantly re—
ceiving requests for opportunities to participate
in drama activities, and with additional leisure
hours these requests are certain to multiply. Dra—
matic activity is so fundamentally grounded in
human nature, and is so pleasant and fascinating,
that after a person has once been a participant,
the desire usually remains to continue the exper—
ience. Many persons are exposed to it in our
schools, but when they stop going to school and
go to work only in rare instances can they keep
up their practice. They can show their interest
only by attending professional productions, by
going to movies, or by listening to radio drama,
which of course they do in countless and increas—
ing numbers.

so universally

The Most Democratic of Arts

And here I feel that I must point out that there
is one important particular in which the art of the
theatre differs from most other arts. Other arts
may be practiced, if the desire is strong enough,
in private by an individual. If you teach a child
music or drawing, he can continue to be an intel—
ligent practicing amateur all the rest of his life.
He can play the piano, or sing, or sketch, or paint.
or make baskets, all by himself. But dramatic
art is different. No one person can practice it
alone. No one can write a play, build scenery and
costumes for it, act all the parts, and be his own
audience. The art of the theatre is the most
democratic and the most synthetic of the arts. It

THE PLACE OF DRAMA IN LEISURE TIME LIFE 463

demands a group, and it can be practiced only by
those persons who are so fortunate as to find one.
Therefore, to make its practice more wide spread,
we must create more groups.

In general, the practice of dramatic art requires
two specific things—a place in which to practice
and a trained leader to teach the arts and skills
demanded by play production. In order to in-
crease the practice of it, therefore, your commit-
tee could help by finding places and supplying
trained leaders. The places might be secured by
making some sort of a survey to see what suitable
rooms there are in church and parish houses, set-
tlements, school buildings, meeting halls, recrea-
tion rooms in department stores and other similar
organizations employing large numbers of people,
and so forth. The leaders might be secured by
using teachers and actors registered with the
Emergency Work Bureau, or by calling for vol-
unteers. Some system might easily be devised for
the further training of these leaders through con-
ferences and institutes in which they could be
aided by lectures and by demonstrations.

Of these two requirements, the place and the
leader, the leader is by far the more important.
Mrs. Mabel Hobbs, Drama Consultant 0f the
National Recreation Association, in “A Suggested
Plan for Developing Amateur Drama in New
York City,” says: “\Vhen a drama activity fails.
it is due in almost every case to lack of efficiency
in the director. Any good director will not only
do effective work with the group that is ready
and anxious to play, but will also be able to
awaken interest and open the way to many who
have never considered drama as a possible activ-
ity for themselves.” A good leader will gather a
group around him and make a theatre, whatever
may be the handicaps of the place in which he
must work, but an inadequate leader will be un-
able to stimulate the group sufficiently even
though he have at his disposal all the mechanical
possibilities of a complete theatre. Any scheme,
therefore, must start, and perhaps can end, with
the finding and helping of real leaders in the field.

One of the reasons for the absolute necessity
for trained and expert leaders is the complicity
of dramatic art. The art of the theatre is wide
and all-embracing. You must not conceive of dra-
matics as merely the learning of the lines of an
author, and reciting them in character along with
other actors. The art of the theatre, properly un-
derstood and practiced, involves such diversified
activities as directing, acting, writing, designing,

managing, carpentry, scene painting, sewing and
dyeing, stage lighting, and so on. Dramatic art is,
or so it seems to some of us, the art that covers
the widest field. It is as all—embracing as life
itself, for it involves at times the practice of all
the other arts and all the other crafts. It is a sort
of synthesis of other arts and crafts, and perhaps
it is this fact that makes it so universally appeal-
ing. The mechanically—minded man, who in our
civilization is doomed by chance to earn his liv-
ing'as a secretary or a clerk, might find in his
dramatic group an outlet for his true inborn inter-
ests, in designing and building scenery, or in mak-
ing and using electrical equipment. In the same
way other persons will be able to find opportuni~
ties for using abilities normally smothered in
their professions, and the clever leader will dis-
cover and develop unsuspected talents. Dramatic
groups cannot consist of actors alone; they must
also have other artists, carpenters, painters, elec—
trical workers, seamstresses, etc. And under the
clever and experienced leader the meeting place
of the dramatic group will be not only a theatre
but also a playground and a shop, a studio and a
laboratory.

Values Involved

The possible values that might follow, if we
could give an opportunity to every citizen of our
city who is interested or who could be interested
in dramatic art, are numerous, and, I hope, ap-
parent. Obviously the study n'ecessary for the
actor leads to a greater understanding of other
people. Recently I asked a well-known profes-
sional actor how he was able to make such a good
entrance in the part he was playing, that of a
fine, sensitive Jewish boy living in the slums. He
told me that at first he had had great difficulty
with it, but then he struck on the idea of re-creat—
ing the boy’s immediate past, and as he stood in
the wings each night waiting for his cue, he
imagined himself at Goldman’s Band Concert in
the Park, then walking home through the various
parts of the city to the decayed old house in which
the boy lived. He had to understand the boy emo-
tionally in order to play him. And really to be
able to play one character besides ourself, to un-
derstand completely even one fictitious person, is
a worth-while experience. The facetious sugges-
tion of one editorial writer in the recent campaign
that no citizen be allowed to vote who has not
read Aristophanes’ comedy of Athenian politics,

(Continued on page 488)

Music As 3 Leisure Time Activity

' By HAROLD BAUER
President of the National Friends of Music

EISURI-z TIME has before this been imposed upon

L a people and has before this, been made the
Opportunity for the growth of an art.

The extent to which leisure is beneficial to
human beings cannot possibly. be overestimated.
Real culture cannot progress, nor can true hap-
piness be attained, unless the individual is able to
devote a certain amount of time to pursuits out-
side of the daily routine of working for a livli-
hood. In a machine age where the mere mechan-
ics of living absorb our energies, where we all
wear the same kind of clothing, eat the same kind
of food, read the same news at the same time,
where we take our art as we take many of our
sports and games, vicariously, watching others
perform, it is a deplorable thing to have no leisure.

Self expression in some form of art seems to
afford the only means whereby we can preserve
individuality and independence.

I make my plea for music—music listened to,
music studied, music composed and performed,
as having a peculiar virtue to fill, above any other
thing, with profit beyond calculation, the enlarged
leisure which existing economic stress has brought
to us, and which, unhappily, to many people
means a time of enforced idleness. For music
can give forgetfulness as well as joy. In its
power to stimulate the imagination it can trans—
mute trouble into something like detachment. Its
appeal is equally to the head and to the heart. It
is a humane occupation and a social activity in
which there can be no loneliness. It has many
forms which adapt themselves
to all varieties of personalities.
It has many techniques and as
many or as few difficulties as
desired.

Music in All Forms Available

Many adults who have
studied music in their youth
find that it has been crowded

464

portunity.”

“My many years of eXperience as a
concert artist enables me to assert
without hesitation that music is a
fundamental desire of the Ameri-
can people and of the pcople of
the City of New York. In my
opinion any government group or
group of leaders which fails to re-
cognize this fact loses a great op-

out of their lives. They can now bring it back,
for now they need it. The opportunity is there.
the approach is easy, and all that remains is to
remove any barrier that may still exist and to let
all know what steps to take to re-establish contact
with the most intimate of at! arts. It will be a mag-
nificent thing, if, out of the frightful distress of
unemployment, a change shall be brought about
in our economic system whereby man may have
leisure to search within himself for an expression
of What he craves. In order to be ready to satisfy
his need, we must not only devise new methods
and opportunities, but we must give sufficient
publicity to facilities already in operation.

These facilities now handled by existing
agencies fall, it seems to me, into two main di—
visions. First, those in which the applicant listens
and enjoys and learns, and second, those in which
he participates. Under the first would come our
splendid array of concerts, opera, church music,
lectures, radio programs and the like. The second
division, that in which the applicant himself par-
ticipates, must be considered from two angles——
that of group participation and that of individual
participation. These divisions, of course, over-
lap, but in general we may say that under group
participation would come such important oppor—
tunities as are offered by the People’s Chorus,
the Intercollegiate Musical Council handling the
University Glee Clubs, the Folk Festival Council,
and the work carried on in the different colleges.
universities, settlements, and such organizations
as the Y.W.C.A. This would
also include the group work
done in music schools and
among private teachers.

Music Schools

Under individual participa-
tion would come our important

schools of music such as the
Juilliard School of Music, the

MUSIC AS A LEISURE TIME ACTIVITY 465

Diller-Quaile School of Music, the David-Mannes
Music School, and many others, which, together
with the names of distinguished private teachers,
it is impossible to list here. All of these schools
are gradually coming to offer more and more for
the adult who desires experience with an art.

But there is one group of schools which include
both group and individual instruction, and must
be separately mentioned, because for the last
twenty or more years these schools have been
dealing primarily with the subject under discus-
sion. Their work is to reveal that something in
music, which, through intimate and personal con-
tact with it, will prove a source of inspiration, an
awakening of curiosity toward beauty, and which
will thus, for those who study, become an absorb-
ing incentive for the use of leisure time. These
schools h ave concerned
themselves entirely with
students of small financial
means. They have made a
close study of the needs of
people who have had very
little leisure time and they
have learned how to give
the most in terms of happi-
ness in the smallest time
and with the smallest equip-
ment. In fact, they are ex-
perts in dealing with just
the sort of thing which is sUre to concern the
state as the problem of leisure time develops. I
refer to the Settlement and Community Music
Schools of New York whose splendid work and
experience has been further redistributed to the
country at large through their national organiza—
tion, the Music Division of the National Federa-
tion of Settlements. These music schools origi—
nated in the First place as a division of the set-
tlement work. Since then, however, they have
become so important that they have been com-
pletely detached from the other settlement activi—
ties and are working quite independently.

It is significant that so important has become
the trend of thought toward the problem of what
is to be done with leisure time that several im-
portant organizations have made studies of the
opportunities already existing which meet this
need. Such publications as “Spend Your Time,”
compiled by Teachers’ College, fits in and supple-
ments information available at the New York
Adult Education Council, the Bureau for the
Advancement of Music, the National Music

eember 1933.

(l

“The problem of adequately providing
for increased leisure which has alreadv
reached formidable proportions, may
prove the salvation of music . . .
as the other fine arts. For leading citi-
zens, moving to meet the increased lei-
sure problem, are recognizing the im-
portance of these arts and their fitness
not only to entertain but still further to
stimulate the seed of our national cul-
ture.”——From the Musical Digest, De-

League. the National Recreation Association, the.
Music Division of the National Federation of
Settlements and the Welfare Council.

The Unemployed Musician

The work of the State along the lines of music
in its relief program has been a striking example
of the change toward a broader outlook, not only
in relief but in education as well. It has worked
along two lines. First, it has offered an oppor—
tunity, through orchestral and band concerts, for
unemployed musicians to be used in their own
held, so that their abilities might be both pre—
served and developed. Second, unemployed teach-
ers have been trained anew for fresh fields of
activity, snch as adult group teaching in class
instruction on different instruments, and in gen-
eral appreciation and group
singing. Many teachers
who have had a great deal
of experience in the past in
teaching are totally unfa-
miliar with the social and
artistic problems that are
brought about when they
come to teach in groups.
From june Ist to October
7th the State has provided
work for 315 Union mu-
sicians who have given 382
concerts attended by more than 350,000 people.
The Civic Orchestra continues to give weekly
concerts in the Museum of Natural History in
New York and the Brooklyn Museum of Art.
The attendance at these concerts has grown from
50 people to capacity houses. Another interesting
part of the educational plan being worked out by
the State is quartet and recital concerts in ten
branch libraries. In all this every effort is being
made to keep out of the competitive field—the
object being to stimulate and awaken a desire for‘
further study which will react favorably upon the
musical profession both in supplying pupils for
teachers and in creating more intelligent audiences
for concerts.

as well

The Demand for Music Universal

This, then, is the situation as it exists. The
child of today is the adult of tomorrow. We do
much for our children; a definite plan should be
evolved so that the enrichment in an art gained
in childhood shall Find an outlet and a further

(Continued on page 489)

The New Leisure and the School

By HAROLD G. CAMPBELL, Ph.D.

Deputy and Associate Superintendent of Schools

prepare the coming gener-

ation for happy and suc-
cessful living, it must consider
carefully conditions of the
society in which the next gen-
eration is to live. We are now
in a new age, an age which re—
quires new schools, schools
which differ in their outlook

IF PUBLIC EDUCATION is to

New York City

With so much attention cen-
tered on the plight of the
public school in the depres-
sion, Dr. Campbell’s presen-
tation is particularly timely

as he tells of the school’s new
responsibilities and what it is
attempting to do with a re-
duced budget to train for the
use of leisure time.

for unemployment (whether volun-
tary or enforced) has utterly failed
at the essential point—that of open-
ing the way to life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.”

What Are the Schools
Doing?
\Vhat are the schools doing
today in their attempt to solve

and requirements as much as
the new age differs from the

old.

In the past our schools have been chiefly en—
gaged in training youth largely for the work side
of life, a program which was defensible, for the
work side occupied most of life. With the new
age, however, increasing the leisure side of life, it
becomes necessary for the school to develop such
attitudes, habits and skills as will leave the future
citizen free to function successfully and happily
in his leisure time as well as in his work time.

One thing that these hearings have brought out
is the fact that it should not be our purpose to
force people to enjoy themselves our way. Rather
should we try to open up as many avenues for the
profitable and happy use of leisure time as is pos-
sible, so that each individual may use his own
leisure'in a way in keeping with his desires and
needs.

Professor Jacks, the eminent Oxford philoso—

pher, states the problem as follows;

“I would help people to find and to choose wisely and
at the same time to develop more ways of enjoying
themselves. I think thus a vast increase in human hap—
piness would be possible and that people would also be-
come better citizens. Many of the leisure occupations now
common in all classes—the rich and the poor—tend to the
Opposite direction. Nine—tenths of the present leisure is
devoted to playing the fool. A system of education
which trains a man for dealing with particular condi—
tions but leaves him untrained for all others, trained for
work of a special kind (such as salesmanship) but un-
trained for leisure, trained for employment but untrained

466

 

this problem? I speak chiefly
of the work being done in our
secondary schools b e c a u s e
'while all may not go to col-
lege, today practically all of our people obtain at
least some training in our secondary schools. I
believe that probably the most important work we
are doing is the proper inculcation of health
habits. \Ve are striving to make our students
health conscious. For what shall it profit them to
be aware of the many opportunities for the intel—
ligent use of leisure if the lack of health makes it
impossible to grasp these opportunities? Health
habits are rarely established during maturity. Un-
less matters of proper personal hygiene become
positively habitual during adolescence, there is
small chance of their establishment later on. It is
our object to instill in each student the inclina-
tion for and the practice of some form of physi—
cal activity in which he may engage while in
school and which he will also wish to continue
after graduation. Hiking clubs, for example, are
now established in practically all of our high
schools since no more natural and beneficial exer-
cise than walking has ever been developed. The
youth in whom habits of health and exercise have
been instilled has gone a long way in education
for the use of leisure.

Out of the experiences of curricular and ex—
tracurricular activities the teachers of this coun-
try are making a conscious effort to develop in
their pupils self—reliance. A recent study of the
extracurricular activities of the forty-two New

THE NEW LEISURE .‘IND THE SCHOOL 467

York City senior high schools shows that our
pupils are engaging in one hundred and eight-six
different forms of pupil activity outside of the
requirements of the course of study. These in-
clude not only athletic activities, but literary, mu-
sical, vocational, social and all other activities in
which pupils engage if their leisure is properly
used. This extracurricular activity gives to our
students a feeling of self-reliance which helps
greatly in living what we have called “the abund-
ant life.”

The classroom itself, as most parents know, is
entirer different from the classroom of a genera-
tion ago. Our advances in child study and the
more friendly and c00perative feeling between
teacher and pupil have brought about a condition
whereby our pupils now feel free to give expres-
sion to their inmost thoughts in both speech and
writing. The result is that our schools are turn-
ing out more creative writers than ever before.
It is not an unusual thing today for a high school
to publish at intervals a creditable volume of the
verse of the students and every year at least one
beautifully printed magazine of student prose.
The youth who has learned the intense personal
satisfaction which comes from the creation of
something worth while, will find little difi’iculty
later on in using leisure intelligently.

Our literature classes are no longer dissecting
laboratories in which amateurs painfully tear, limb
from limb, the beautiful works of literary gen-
iuses. Rather are they classes in which an effort
is made to see the beauties of fine thoughts clothed
in beautiful speech. The alert English teacher to-
day considers himself a failure if he has not given
his pupils the desire to travel the broad avenues of
sweetness and light which are reached through
the pages of good books.

All of our schools have as a requirement a con—
siderable acquaintance with the social sciences.
\Ve strive to develop in each a civic consciousness
so that the intelligent use of leisure will include
the realization of duties and obligations as well as
of rights and privileges. Formerly, our civics
teaching was a purely forma-
listic matter, too frequently in
strict memoriter fashion. Now
we are more interested in
bringing to the youth a realiza-
tion of the functions of gov-
ermnent and the duties of the
individual in his relations

“There is one thing the commu-
nity must understand: if the com-
munity wants this cducation, if it
wants the community centers and
other things which, we have been
hearing at these centers make for Dr.
education for leisure, then the com-
to it. munity must pay for them.”

Developing the Emotional Side

More and more are our schools attempting to
develop the emotional side of our students—that
side which is bound to have an important bearing
on the method in which leisure is used. In manv
of our schools today, for example, we are getting
away from the “old line” courses in drawing. Not
a few of you will recall the torture which you
underwent in high school in the last generation,
in the so-called drawing classes. We realize to-
day that not every pupil can become an artist. We
believe, however, that every pupil may be taught
to appreciate the creations of great artists. We
feel, in New York City, that the course in art ap-
preciation which we give to every one of our two
hundred thousand high school students is one of
the great advances we have made. \Ne are not
forgetting the exceptional boy or girl who has
artistic talent, and we are making provision for
the development of that talent. We think, how-
ever, that we are doing much for the great army
of young men and women who will go forth from
our schools and will be able and willing to enjoy
a good picture, a fine piece of architecture, an at-
tractive gown, an artistically furnished room or a
fine example of printing.

Similar courses are being conducted in music.
Rather than putting the effort on producing a
Caruso or a Hoffman, we desire to give to the
thousands an appreciation of the work of all great
musicians. What more satisfying use of leisure
could he made than the ability to enjoy fine crea-
tive work in all fields? Education in America
realizes, however, that training must be given in
youth if this enjoyment is to be possible.

A proper training of youth along the lines that
I have indicated will do much to solve the prob-
lem of how our future men and women will use
the increased leisure of the new age. I will call
your attention to the fact that many of these mat—
ters which have found their way into our schools
during the past generation are what are called in
many quarters the “fads and frills” of education‘
The studies of this committee have brought out,
I think, that far from being
fads and frills, these studies
must be the fundamentals in
any educational program which
is to prepare the children for
life in the new age.

 

Campbell answered :1
number of questions about the

(Continued on page 489)

Parks and Leisure Time

NF OF THE great problems
0 which any park commis-
sioner must face today is
the need and demand for addi-
tional recreational facilities. For
years the authorities have thought of play and
recreation only in terms of children’s playgrounds.
However, during the past few years, and particu-
larly at this time, under the NRA we must give
our attention to adult play.

The play of the child is instinctive. \Vhile it
should be directed and supervised and good play
habits formed, the recreation of our adults should
merely be guided along the proper lines. Recre-
ation programs should be suggested and facilities
provided with the assignment of directors to of-
ficiate at games or properly to regulate the use
of the recreation area for the benefit of all.

This brings me to the subject of the desires and
play interests of our adults. These vary accord-
ing to the individual, but we have found that
many like baseball, football, soccer, tennis, hand-
ball, field hockey, roller-skating, concerts, horse-
shoe pitching, dramatics, reading. Some people
like to participate in the athletic and physical ac-
tivities, while others like to watch. The Bureau
of Recreation of the Department of Parks has
conducted activities SUCh as ice skating champion-
ships and roller-skating championships which
thousands came to watch, and approximately one
thousand actually took part in the races. During
the past summer the National Public Parks Ten-
nis Championships took place in Central Park,
drawing a total attendance of twenty-five thou-
sand persons during the week. These special ac-
tintiCS, therefore, not only provide active par-
ticipation, but provide amusement in a wholesome
environment to thousands.

The ideal thing, of course, is to get active par-
ticipation by all, but that is impossible. So great
is the demand for the use of our facilities that we
must refuse in great numbers the various requests
for recreational opportunities. If many of the
large play facilities were brilliantly lighted at
night, we could increase the use of the facilities
and thousands more would have an opportunity
which they have not at the present time. If a

468

By JOHN E. SHEEHY

Commissioner of Parks
Borough of Manhattan

man wishes to play handball why
should there not be several public
handball courts within walking dis-
tance of his home? If a young girl
wishes to play tennis, why should
she have to wait in line for one or two hours be-
fore her turn comes to play? If a team or a club
wishes to play basketball, why should we not pro—
vide the area? Many basketball teams in this
great city of ours have not an opportunity to play
at the present time, because of lack of facilities.
On the Island of Manhattan there are only nine
municipal public gymnasiums. These are under
the supervision of the Department of Parks. Lo-
cations could be found in our smaller parks and
playgrounds or on newly acquired areas for at
least twenty-five additional field houses with gym-
nasiums. club rooms, swimming pools and pool
tables. Some of our playgrounds should be re-
designed to meet the needs of the time. More
wading pools are needed, constructed in such a
way that they can be used for wading by children
during the summer months. and for ice skating
by adults and children during the winter months.

New York is a seaport city, practically sur-
rounded by water and the opportunities for ocean,
bay and river parks, with bathing privileges.
sealer sports and anchoran facilities for small
pleasure boats, and this fact should no longer be
neglected. The waters of our bays and rivers will
not always be contaminated as at present, and
thought should be given to the future and pro-
vision made for proper development of our
natural advantages.

The thirty—four acres filled in at the old reser-
voir site in Central Park are being developed with
a children’s playground, ball fields, running track.
field house, croquet grounds, horseshoe pitching
courts. and a bowling green. Activities for all
age groups will be accommodated here. This
should also be the plan in the development of the
North Meadow, Central Park.

The plan for the development of Riverside
Drive includes forty-four additional tennis courts.
three field houses, a swimming pool, a boat basin,
five children’s playgrounds, several large play

(Continued on page 490)

The Extension of the Work of Settlements

to the Public Service

“The advantage of private or-
ganizations like the settlements
is the freedom to experiment
which characterizes them. But

the advantage of the public cen-
ters is the widening of the op-

portunities offered. Probably
both will be nceded for some

timc to come.”

 

HE FIRST OBJECT of the settlement is to or-
ganize local interest and activity, bringing
out the resources of the neighborhood, mak-

ing the neighborhood, in fact, voice its own de-
mands and secure the satisfaction of its own
needs. The second object is to furnish to the
neighborhood those services not already available
through other public or private agencies, espe-
cially those that are experimental in character,
from which may be learned what works and
what does not, and what should be more widely
availablc. The third object is to arouse public
sentiment in the hope of gaining greater economic
security for the masses of the population.

The first object may be attained by other simi-

lar groups—by community councils, by local im-
provement societies and by neighborhood organi-
zations of many kinds. The advantage the set-
tlement affords in this field of community organi-
zation is that it presents continuity of effort.
There is a vast amount of change of personnel in
most undertakings in New York. The settlements
as a whole have shown a persistent effort which
can be relied upon for continuity in neighborhood
organization, while others come and go. Never-
theless, it is not probable that settlements and
neighborhood houses will be able in any thorough-
going way to cover all the neighborhoods of the
greater city. Indeed, the settlements have always
urged upon localities self-organization in school
buildings. At one time, in the neighborhood
which I know best, there were three such active
school centers which aroused a fine local response.
The activities, however, were largely those which

By MARY K. SIMKHOVITCH
Head Worker

Greenwich House

were already popular or easily understood. Danc-
ing, discussion of current events and athletics

were the activities especially enjoyed. The ex-
perience gained in management was one of the

best features of these centers.

But these public community centers in different
sections of New York vary greatly. Interest dies
and then revives. The school buildings are often
not attractive as social centers. The very fact
that people go to school in the buildings is often
a drawback. Indeed, there is nothing especially
sacred or foreordained about a school building
as a social center. A library is as good, if there
is space enough. The great advantage the school
building has is that there is space for all kinds of
aftcr—school gatherings, and that taxpayers might
as well use their property to capacity. The prac»
tice at present is to charge organizations desiring
to use the school buildings for custodial care at
fixed rates. The expense of opening an entire
building is considerable, but of course it is not as
expensive as would be the construction of new

buildings with private money.
The success of these school ‘centers depends

° very largely upon the initiative and skill of its

director. Mr. Gibney, who has charge of the ex—
tra-academic centers of the New York Depart-
ment of Education, several years ago included in
his budget, as an experiment, provision for four
community organizers whose business it would be
to inform the localities of their opportunity for
self-expression and to organize groups for the
social use of school buildings. This item was cut
out as an unnecessary frill. But this movement
will never be a success until it ceases to be re-
garded as a step child, and is respected enough to
command a continuous and skilled leadership.
Enlightened public opinion in this city could be
developed by this means more quickly, more
cheaply and more effectively than by any other
means I know, provided the qualifications for
leadership were adequate.

(Continued on page 491)
469

Leisure and Creative Art

SURROUNDED la r ge l y by

commercial recreation and

mass education, it is more
than ordinarily dichult for the
individual man and woman to
use leisure in other than mass
ways. And yet it seems to me
that the very essence of wisely
used leisure should be the

By MABEL LESLIE

Director, Art Workshop
New York City

Miss Leslie spoke from the
point of view of the private
organization supported by
private contributions and pos-

sibly small fees, rather than
from the viewpoint of public
movements and agencies for
the use of leisure time.

school but what its name im—
plies—a workshop—and little
effort has been made at any
orderly building up of the
background of the arts. In-
dividual projects are con-
ceived and carried on in
groups. Professional teachers

building up of the self-confi-
dence of the individual, of his
ability, of his alertness, in contra-distinction to
his participation in mass activity in his working
life. To this end I suggest providing greater edu-
cational opportunity for sharing actively in the
creative arts.

Adult and workers’ education has concerned
itself in the main with the practical or academic
side of life. 'Although workers have used some
of their leisure time for education, education for
leisure time pursuits as such is comparativelv
modern. For those who have not the means nor
the desire for mechanical assistance in the spend-
ing of leisure time, adult education has offered
courses including economics, history, science,
geography, and mathematics. Almost never out-
side of sport has education offered the worker an
opportunity for creative play. Adult education
has to a large extent followed the mechanical
bent of the “movies” and has “played upon” the
student with the old and reliable lecture method.

\Vithin the last few years a number of social
organizations have included the arts in their pro—
gram with various objectives. The organization
with which I am associated—the Art Workshop
of the Rivington Neighborhood Association—is
experimenting with the creative arts for leisure
time. The Art Workshop seeks to provide op—
portunity for individual creative effort in clay
modeling, painting and design, the theatre arts
and creative writing. The Workshop is not a

470

 

are used in each group. I give
time to the Art \Vorkshop ex-
periment because it is the sort
of thing that I wish most earnestly to bring to
the attention of the Committee.

The Workshop enrolls women only. Students
come from almost every walk of life. Their rea-
sons for coming can be generally summed up in
typical expressions: “I have always thought that
I would like to model—just for my own satis-
faction. Would it be too dichult working only
one evening a week 2’” “I want to know some-
thing about the theatre, not by reading books but
by learning about acting,” and so on. The Work-
shop ochers reply that it is not silly; that it is
not too difficult; and that one can learn without
the reading of numbers of technical books; that
in fact workers can enjoy the arts creatively with-
out being painters or sculptors, actors or writers.
The Workshop puts the emphasis on individual
initiative and good workmanship for the satisfac-
tion it may bring to the student. It brings not
only the satisfaction of creating the whole of a
thing, which workers so rarely do in their bUSiness
and working lives, there is the greater satisfac-
tion of an understanding and appreciation of the
arts encountered in every day life.

All of this is another way of saying that beauty
can be brought into workers' lives in a natural.
useful way and in contrast to the drab monotony
of every day activities. The beauty of creation
can give the spiritual food needed. It can re-cre-

{Continued on page 491)

The Leisure Time Services

of the

Jewish Community Center

HE ORGANIZATIONS which I, as president of
T the National Jewish \Velfare Board, have the

honor of representing before this committee,
are among the many thousands of voluntary or"
ganizations which engage in recreational activi-
ties. Their voluntary character is of a special sig-
nificance. The men and women, boys and girls
who constitute the members and the participants
of associations, settlem‘ent houses, community
centers and kindred organizations, come to them
freely and spontaneously. These voluntary or-
ganizations, which it is convenient to term “cen-
ters," attest the truth of the ancient doctrine,
"Not by bread alone does man live.” The primary
drive prompting participation in center activities
is an expression of the need in each of us for
human fellowship. They demonstrate the poten-
tiality of that fellowship to enhance individual
happiness and social helpfulness.

Never before and nowhere else has the need for
fellowship and friendship been so insistent as
now, and in a metropolis like New York. we no
longer work in the easy, conversational and free
atmosphere of a simpler economic order. The
work process affords most of us practically no
opportunity for cultivating friendship. Our liv—
ing conditions present the same dilTiculties. The
occupants of an apartment house in a crowded
urban section can-not know one another as do
villagers.

Our centers are constantly bringing together
large numbers of people whom work, living and
other social conditions would otherwise keep
apart. The attendance, for instance, at an East
Side institution last year exceeded a million; in
an upper Manhattan institution a quarter of a
million; in a Brooklyn institution three—quarters
of a million, and in a Bronx institution a half a
million.

The structures, the budgets and the programs
of these centers are all expressions of the volun—

By Judge IRVING LEI-[MAN

President
National Jewish Welfare Board

tary spirit People havetaxed themselves to erect
buildings. Through membership fees and contri-
butions they meet a substantial part of the cost of
operation. The members are constantly providing
the ideas that dictate center programs. Out of
their ranks come literally thousands of volunteers,
assistants, supplementing the professional social
workers and teachers. These volunteers serve on
boards, committees, house councils; lead clubs
and Scout troops; teach religious schools; super-
vise libraries; coach plays and teams; referee
games, etc. The center is thus an important tool
in the American democratic experiment, aiming
at self-government and self -help.

From a broad social viewpoint, the changes
that take place in the interests and attitudes of
center members are of the greatest significance
and emphasize the importance of these leisure
time agencies. From play in the narrow sense of
fun making they proceed into the more enriching
experiences of re-creation in a very broad sense.
They find themselves enjoying various elements
of the center program, which has become a very
complicated pattern, including social, educational,
artistic and health promoting elements. The mem-
bers proceed to take part in these activities, fre-
quently at the suggestion of and under the guid-
ance of trained workers, who constitute the pro-
fessional body of center executives.

What do center participants (10? A few illus-
trations may serve our immediate purpose. Our
national and regional organizations are constantly
called upon for arrangements for lectures and
concerts, and for the celebration of religious and
civic holidays. The auditoria of these centers are
used to the maximum for these mass cultural

471

472 THE LEISURE TIME SERVICES OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER

activities. The subjects of the lectures deal with
fundamental interests of life, whether philosophic,
economic, scientific, or literary. They are usually
followed by stimulating and thought-provoking
discussions. Thus, one of the many open forums
conducted by centers has a weekly attendance of
700. That public taste has become more refined
can be seen from the demands for better music in
the concerts and in the appreciation of art
exhibits.‘

The participation of members in such activi-
ties, not merely as auditors or spectators, is of
the utmost educational value. Dealing with large
numbers, our centers naturally utilize the mass
plan of activities. The individual, however, has
the freest opportunity for having his personality
recognized and for making himself felt in a social
situation in the small group or club. All of our
institutions promote self-governing and properly
supervised clubs. Last year there were in opera-
ti0n in the Metropolitan League more than one
thousand such clubs. These reveal talents and
bring leadership to the fore. There are now serv-
ing as members of Boards of Directors and in
other important communal enterprises men and
women who received their early social training
in community center clubs. Recruiting and train-
ing volunteers is a continuous function of these
centers and their regional and national head-
quarters.

For intensive educational development they are
to be found in the music schools as members of
the orchestra, singing societies, and the music
classes. They attend cultural, vocational, domes-
tic science, and Americanization classes. Our
leisure time programs are opening the way for the
exercise of the creative capacities of many people
who ordinarily would find no outlet or encourage-
ment in our system of large scale production and
mechanical division of la-
bor. The art classes, the
crafts shops, and the Little
Theatre promoting the pro-
duction of good plays, mean
much more to the individ-
uals concerned and will
mean more and more to our
civilization.

The maintenance of phy-
sical health and mental poise
being of paramount impor=
tance in this hectic, noisy
and strenuous civilization,

“The person who uses leisure timc ad-
vantageously exerts certain controls on
himself and on his associates. The per-
son who participates wisely in leisure
time activities is likely to bc possessed
of good mental health as well as good
physical health. And thc person who is
master of himself in leisure has mas-
tered one important phase of the de-
velopment of his personality. Wc might
contend that to master one"s leisure time
is to be truly educated.”-—]ohn A. Kin-
neman, in The Journal of Health and
Physical Education, December 1933.

the health and physical educational departments
occupy a central place in the center program.
Adults are making increasing use of gymnasia,
swimming pools and handball courts. These ac-
tivities are directed by instructors and are pre-
ceded by physical examinations. Men and women
are taught how to take care of their bodies and to
play together in a sportsmanlike manner.

In summer the hot and dusty city has decided
limitations for health work. Camping for adults
as well as for children is the modern way out.
Twenty-three camps, with a capacity for 2500
children and adults at one time, are conducted bv
Jewish institutions in the New York area. One
of the most interesting developments in the field
of recreation is the home camp which is indicat—
ing a way of meeting the recreational needs during
the summer for those unable to leave the city.

One need but spend an hour or two in a center
to see how the program brings adults and young
people together. The old and the young mingle
freely in services, lectures, class and game rooms.
The Jewish center is co-educational and seeks to
serve the family on a family basis. I venture to
submit that in any sound program for leisure time
activities we must keep the ideal of the family
steadily before us. \Vork does not bring father
and son, mother and daughter together, but play
can and should. That is why I have not restricted
this description of the Jewish center program to
its adult elements. It is our view that we are
dealing here with nothing less important than
human personality. Personality is unilied and, to
be healthy, must be whole. Recreation cannot be
Separated from work in its effects upon the indi-
vidual. W'hatever we do, whether in work or play,
influences us, and if we are to play wholesomely
as grown-ups, we must learn to be wholesome in
our play as children.

There is a community-
wide significance to Jewish
center work to which I
should like briefly to refer.
The spirit of mutual under—
standing and good will that
prevails among racial and
religious groups in New
York City has helped to
make this great metropolis
an outstanding community
and justifies our hope in
American democracy. The

(Continued on page 492)

Leisure Time Opportunities for Young People

As they are provided by the Young Women’s and Young
Men’s Christian Associations of the City of New York

Activities for Women

By MARGARET WEBSTER

General Secretary

Y. W. C. A. of the City of New York

IIE use OF LEISURE TIME is purely an indi-
T vidual matter, dependent upon individual
choices. Few persons really have a plan for
their leisure time; its use seems to be, for the
most part, on a purely opportunistic basis. This
may be due to the fact that all the rest of their
time is planned and controlled by external circum-
stances, and the very natural reaction is to covet
hours when they do not have to do anything.
There is a good deal to be said, too, for this point
of view, in days when pressures are so intense
and manifold and insistent; and undoubtedly real
values are achieved even from vacuous leisure.
However, it could hardly be said that such would
be the best use to make of one’s free time.

This casual attitude toward leisure is largely
the result of early training. Somehow the same
attitude toward the wise use of time that many of
us have had dinned into us regarding the wise use
of money should be engendered in the very young.
Could not the importance of beginning this
training early be further urged upon the schools

and upon the family, and a program be devised .

which would have as its specific objective helping
the young person to choose his free time occupa—
tions constructively and with some sort of aim?
Certainly if the community has leisure—time fa—
cilities to “sell” it should do more to build up a
larger group of “consumers.”

Objectives

There are many objectives to be achieved
through the use of leisure, and these vary with

“To put the problem briefly,
there must be “high-brow”
and “low-brow” and “in-be-

tween” activities, and oppor-
tunities should be offered in
both academic and popular
form.”

 

the individual. They fall, however, into a few
classifications which are probably quite general.
They are:

1. Relaxation and release

2. Social enjoyment

3. Personal development
4. Occupational advancement

5. Health
6. Service to the community

It is important to keep in mind what individual
persons may be seeking when they choose the way
they will spend their few precious hours of free
time. There are certain determining or limiting
factors to be considered which affect very largely
the individual selections that are made: the social
status. which has certain standards and vogues;
the educational and family background, which has
developed certain interests and established certain
habits; the age; the economic status, which limits
choice; physical energy, which controls largely
what may be done, regardless of desires and am—
bitions; and, in a very large city, the distances
which have to be covered, and the time consumed
getting places.

For these reasons no leisure—time program can
be adequate unless it is extended to include all
possible types of interest or leisure—time activity
which might aid in the achievement of each ob—
jective, and unless it makes all these interests and
activities available in graded form to meet the dif—
fering requirements of individuals and at costs
which will not be prohibitive.

Few people seem tq think the resources of this
city are not adequate. They appear to be limit-

473

474 LEISURE TIME OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE

less, especially along cultural lines. I question,
however, whether the outdoor facilities in a very
large city can ever be entirely satisfactory. Unques—
tionably there should be more playgrounds, more
parks and open spaces, more tennis courts, more
volley ball courts and more golf courses available
at moderate cost. The desire to ride horseback
and to play golf is not confined only to persons
who can afford what the city now offers.

Many of the leisure—time opportunities in New
York City are lost because they are known to so
few. Something should certainly be done to ac—
quaint people with what is here. I would like to
suggest that a really adequate directory be assem-
bled of the leisure-time facilities of Greater New
York. Several small attempts have been made in
this direction, but so far as I know nothing in any
way comprehensive has yet been compiled. Some
of the newspapers, especially The Daily News.
The N e'zcr York Times and The Brooklyn Eagle.
with whose services I am familiar, maintain ex-
cellent information bureaus. Could not the ma-
chinery already set up be utilized to furnish a
much more extensive and detailed service?
Special supplements might well be published by
these papers. with material organized from the
standpoint of the interests of people, and vari-
ously classified as to cost, location, hour, etc. I
can think of no other single thing which would be
so valuable. It would be informational to those
seeking specific facilities; it would be suggestive
and stimulating to those who are looking for ways
to spend their free time.

In the Early Days of the Y. W. C. A.
The Y.\’V.C.A.’s of New York and Brooklyn

rre particularly interested in young women and
the opportunities and stimulation which they need
for enriching their experience and equipping
them for fuller and happier living. The Y.W.
CA. was founded for this very purpose, and
every year of its more than sixty years’ existence
in this city it has adapted itself to the changing
needs of young people and to preparing them for
the broadening fields of opportunity opening to
them. With its hand on the pulse of the times.
the association inaugurated classes to prepare
young women for their new chance in the busi-
ness world; it was the first organization to offer
instruction in stenography and typewriting to
women, and it has consistently kept its position in
the \anguard of vocational training. It has lived
with young women through the years of shorten-

ing working hours and lengthening leisure hours.
ltsprogram has been set to fit the needs and de—
sires they expressed. In the early days, in addi-
tion to offering them training for the few occu-
pations then open to women, the Y.W.C.A. was
principally concerned with their social, cultural
and physical well-being. The 1872 annual report
stated that there were in New York “200,000
women patiently struggling for a livelihood, work-
ing for wages one-third those of men while their
necessary expenditures were one-third more than
those of men; that their twelve to fourteen hours
a day of work exhausted their feeble frames, and
that they could not safely mingle in general
society with the same freedom as men.” Ten
years later when physical training for women was
first introduced. the Y.\-’V.C.A. incorporated it
into its program. To quote again, “Great care is
taken that the women have the proper amount of
exercise, which consists of light calisthenics, ac—
companied by the piano. . . . . The classes are of
the greatest benefit to the women who all day
have bent over desks and sewing machines; for
they come to class pale, tired and drooping, to
leave with rosy cheeks. rested limbs and erect
shoulders !”
Today’s Service

Today the Y.\V.C.A.’s in New York and
irooklyn have twenty-five centers in the
Boroughs of Manhattan, the ironx and Brook-
lyn. Twelve of these are for activities; two being
for Negro young women and two for girls of
foreign nationality; thirteen are housing units
which also have program features. Besides these,
five summer camps and one year-round vacation
lodge are operated by the two associations.

The resources of its buildings and the leader—
ship of the Y.\V.C.A. are at the service of the
community in the interests of young women of
all nationalities, races and religious faiths. Its
program and organization are flexible; it can un-
dertake new enterprises; it can try experiments:
there is no limit. except the financial limit, to the
program which it can offer. The Y.W.C.A. and
the Y.I\I.C.A. are among the very few institutions
in the city whose programs comprehend the com-
plete range of leisure-time objectives, and recog-
nize the fact that all groups of young people want
all types of leisure-time activity at varying prices
and in different localities.

Two interesting projects are now going on

under the Brooklyn Y.W.C.A. One is a five—
week course for the Association's lay and pro-

LEISURE TIME OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 475

fessional leaders, designed to acquaint them with
the underlying philosophy for the use of leisure-
time. The other is a training course planned to
meet the community need for leadership in lei—
sure—time activities, which is to demonstrate the
use of dramatics, music handcrafts and sports,
both indoor and outdoor. Expert teachers in these
fields are giving the course.

As a result of the New York Y.W.C.A.’s en—
terprise, the city now has a craft center. This was
established last year by the Y.W.C.A. in c00pera—
tion with the New York Society of Craftsmen.
after it had been ascertained that no center such
as was contemplated already existed. It is a work—
shop where one may learn, or work independently
in modeling, painting, etching, block-print pot—
tery, wood—carving, textiles, metalry and jewelry.
It is open to all persons. Last year 226 students
were enrolled and they represented fifty-six dif—
ferent wage—earning occupations. At present the
students range in age from 16 to 83; they are
both men and women. In the shop _will be found
an accountant at the etching table, a housewife
pounding a metal bowl, stenographers who prefer
the jewelry bench to the movies; a mother who
likes metals and enamels better than bridge; a
doctor who finds relaxation in etching; an office
manager who paints° a hair—dresser who carves
wood, and many teachers who seek further and
better knowledge of the crafts.

In closing, may I emphasize the great import—
ance of the attitude of youth toward leisure. Op-
portunities may be offered them, but they must
make their own choices. Freedom to choose is es-
sential. Any attempt to control leistlre or to regi-
ment it. robs it of its potential power. If it is true
that “Life goes the way that youth finally takes,”
then our responsibility is to spread before young
people every opportunity possible, and then leave
them to choose what, we hope, may bring stimula-
tion to their minds and enlargement to their
souls.

Asked whether she felt private resources could
in the future, to the extent to which they had in
the past, provide programs when public resources
may conceivably furnish adequate facilities, Miss
Webster said: “I think no organization should
continue any type of program without investigat—
ing other resources in the community and having
very good reasons for continuing. I often think a
number of things seem to be dUplications because
they are called by the same names, whereas actu-

ally they are not duplications if they are thought
of in more complete terms.”

MiSs Webster stated there has been an increas-
ing demand for recreational opportunities which
young men and _young women might enjoy to-
gether. It is believed to be extremely important
to provide these opportunities, and the Y.W.C.A.
and Y.M.C.A. in the city are working in close
cooperation. There is a council of young people
representing the different Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.
A. centers which plans a very comprehensive so-
cial and educational program for the young people
of both organizations.

Activities for Men

By CLEVELAND E. DODGE

President
Y. M. C. A, New York City

0 MAKE a complete tour of the Young Men's

Christian Association centers in New York

and Brooklyn would require several days and
would take one to many parts of the city. The
five boroughs are served by two organizations.
The Y.M.C.A. of the City of New York with
fourteen branches having special responsibility in
Manhattan, Bronx and Richmond; the Brooklyn
and QUeens Y.M.C.A. with seventeen branches
operating in these two boroughs. This report re-
lates to both organizations having served during
the past year a total of 61,000 men and boy
members.

With the aid of special gifts from friends both
Associations have recently been surveyed at con-
siderable cost, and as a result are more and more
individualizing the membership service as evi—
denced by the increased emphasis on individual
guidance. .

In a tour of these centers devoted primarily to
a happy combination of youth, free time and
character, one finds a daily attendance of approxi-
mately 40,000 men and boys enjoying the use of
twenty-two modern club buildings in which citi—
zens have invested some $21,000,000. 011r tour
might include visits to twenty-eight gymnasiUms
where young manhood is maintaining physical
fitness throngh enjoyable recreation under trained
leadership. One could see in nineteen swimming
pools the wholesome thrill which young men ex-

476 LEISURE TIME OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE

perience in aquatic sports in clear, clean water.
On seventy-five handball courts one could view
perspiring youth in joyous competition.

Our tour might inform us of ambitious young
men seeking mental alertness needed for success-
ful achievement as they improve their free time
by study at Y.M.C.A. schools consolidatd at the
West Side, Brooklyn Central and Bedford
Branches. Or one might be surprised at the greatly
increased use of spare time in informal educa-
tional activities such as discussion groups, forums,
and debating societies. Here keenly alert young
men with the guidance of sympathetic council
discuss how to meet the perplexing problems of
the present era.

As our tour progresses one becomes impressed
with the great needs of metropolitan young men
for congenial society, self-expression in social
events, and especially those participated in by
both young men and women. Stopping in any one
of these twenty-nine Y.M.C.A. branches, one
finds plenty of evidence of chances provided for
satisfying social hunger through dances, bridge
parties, chess tournaments; through cultural pas-
times such as Glee Clubs, orchestras, amateur dra-
matics; through hobbies, including modeling,
painting, photography, metal work and a wide
variety of others. In going the rounds one could
look into 5,377 sleeping rooms designed to pro-
vide comfortable and pleasant living accomn10-
dations for those away from home. Then there
are eating places for the convenience of these and
other members.

In our travels one might visit the nine general
branches of the Y.M.C.A. serving mostly em-
ployed young men in all kinds of vocations. One
might view with pride two large .branches de-
voted to the welfare of Negro young men and
boys, centers of culture and civic leadership in
their respective communities. Three Associations
offer facilties primarily to employees of railroads
and affiliated companies. Five minister to the
leisure needs of enlisted men of the Army, Navy,
Marines and Coast Guard. Two devote them-
selves exclusively to men and boys who “go down
to the sea in ships.”

With an undergraduate population of approxi-
mately 100,000, thirteen centers of the Intercol-
legiate Y. M. C. A. on various campuses devote
their attention to student life. The Bowery Y.M.
CA. has a constructive method of dealing with
unemployed and destitute men and provides a

splendid social and recreational program for such
leisure as these men have, and a chance to work
their way back to independence and self respect.
One Y.M.C.A. specializes on work' with factory
employees in Long Island City. How young men
from other communities spend their first days in
the metropolis often makes considerable differ-
ence respecting their futures. Consequently, Wil-
liam Sloane House has been dedicated to a hos-
pitable welcome for transient young men.

The Y.M.C.A. has developed a non—equipment
form of leisure time service to youth which finds
expression in one branch serving youth in the
financial district, another in the area just south
of Harlem and a third in Brooklyn. Our tourist
would find at nineteen Y.M.C.A. branches or-
ganized departments for meeting the leisure needs
of younger boys a most vital factor. To watch
these lively coming Americans is enough to thrill
any citizen interested in our future civilization.

Our trip has indicated something of the physi-
cal equipment and program resources provided
by these Y .M.C.A.’s. It has been noted that many
of the young people are enjoying themselves in
groups. In this connection it might be mentioned
that in October 1933 there was a total attendance
in such Y.M.C.A. directed group events of nearly
240,000. Many young men, however, prefer in-
dividual activities. The individual uses of the
Y.M.C.A. facilities during this same month total-
ed over 500,000.

Our tour would reveal the large use of Y.M.
C.A. facilities by other agencies. This represents
a large contribution to the community respecting
leisure time of youth. One would have to travel
many miles outside of the metropolis to reach all
five of the well-equipped camps for boys and
young men operated by these Y.M.C.A.’s, where
vacation leisure is made attractive and beneficial.
Furthermore, there is a decided increase in the
number of outdoor activities which the Y.M.C.A.
conducts such as week-end outings, hiking trips,
educational trips and athletic sports.

The genius of this organization has grown out
of the happy combination of devotion by both lay-
men and professional workers. On our tour one
would find an employed staff of 210 people espe-
cially trained to cooperate with young men in
working out their spare time activities. Cooperat—
ing actively with them would be found 650 citi-
zens on boards of directors and boards of man-
agers and trustees, and more than 4,500 laymen

(Continued on page 493)

The Catholic Church and Leisure Time

Leisure Time Activities
of
Catholic Agencies

By VICTOR F. RIDDER

President
State Board of Social Welfare

T THE OPENING session of
A the National Conference
of Catholic Charities re-
cently held in New York, the

“We should do everything possible
to have our peeple participate ac-
tively and intelligently in programs
of public welfare. It is a mistake

these deliberations seem to me possible of achieve- .
ment here in New York and could be effected im-
mediately through either the federal, state, or city
forces now organized. It was agreed that greater
opportunity must be afforded for the participation
in physical and social activities and as well in cul-
tural activities either as a part of a recreational
program or educational one. Some of the means

suggested include the following:

1. Enlistment of unemployed professional people to in-
struct in their chosen professions.
2. Selection and assignment of trained leaders for di-
recting programs of all types con-
cerned with the constructive uti-
lization of leisure time. Where a
sufhcient number of trained leaders
are not available, selections should
be made from the rank of the un—

Conference President, Mon— ID assume that Pllblic WBIfal'e employed and preper training pro-
Sianor Keegan‘ in the Opening should be separated from the peo- Vided,
b 1313- They Should Pamelpate "1 It 3. The placement of trained lead—

address said:-“ln our present
stage of civilization, the great
masses of our people should
own enough of this world’s
goods to give then a real foot-hold on the earth.
Able-bodied, willing men should be assured of
steady work under healthful working conditions
and should receive for it a wage sufficient to sup-
port their families, and in addition, a modest com-
petence for the exigencies of life and for the in-
heritance of their children. Home life should be
head in healthful surroundings with opportunities
for proper recreation, for social life, and for the
fulfilment of man's duties to God. Finally. famin
life should enjoy a security which will permit it
to be a haven of love and a proper place in which
to rear children."

I am happy to assure you that we are most
hopeful that behind the compelling force of this
committee a set of commendable objectives can
be outlined and a machinery devised that will
bring about their accomplishment.

You may be interested to know that one section
of the National Conference of Catholic Charities
termed a Committee on Neighborhood and Com-
munity Activities deliberated at length on how
the Catholic Church, through its institutions,
could make more effective the proper utilization
of leisure time. Some of the points stressed in

with understanding and enthusi- erg with the various social
asm because it belongs to them.”—
From Charter of Catholic Charities.

agencies.
4. Utilization of public buildings
for leisure time activities.
The history and tradition of the Catholic

Church from its very foundation, and in all coun-
tries, have favored the principle of a sound mind
in a sound body, and to attain this objective it has
favored and promoted myriad activities devoted
to this purpose. The interest of our Church in
the field of literature, music, painting, sculpture
and dramatics is well known. It is proud of its
accomplishments in these fields and continues to—
day to promote in every possible way these cul—
tural activities. Many games, plays, festivals and
pageantry of today owe their origin to celebrations
arranged in honor of feast days of the Church.

In our own Archdiocese of New York, His
Eminence, Cardinal Hayes, has been well aware
of the past history of the Church in endeavoring
to support all constructive devices for the proper
utilization of leisure time, and has not only com-
mended enjoyable pursuits with due safeguards
but has built an extensive program for just this
purpose.

To enumerate all the activities of the Catholic
agencies in the Archdiocese organized for the
benefit of young men and young boys, young
women and young girls, would be perhaps a need-
less repetition of well known facts. It will suf-

477

478 THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AND LEISURE TIME

fice to name but some of them in order that you
may realize the scope of this program and evalu-

ate the interest of the Church in this work:

Catholic Boys’ Brigade (24 branches)
Catholic Boys’ Clubs (6 branches)

Carroll Club
Catholic Young Women's Club

Associated Catholic Camps (14 camps)
Summer Homes (7 homes)
Catholic Settlements (9 settlements)

Boy Scouts (72 troops)
Girl Scouts (104 troops)
These agencies I have mentioned are annually

providing proper recreation for 19,145 boys and
young men and 16,660 young girls and young
women a number which could be easily expanded
without straining our facilities. In addition, there
are many clubs and organizations of different
types connected with our churches in the Arch-
diocese and their schools.

A centralized coordinating office is available for
all these agencies through the Division of Social
Action of Catholic Charities. During this con-
tinued depression, when this balance between
mental and physical strain and mental and phy-
sical relaxation should be better adjusted, the lack
of proper financial resources has caused a serious
plight for most of these agencies. Realizing the
importance of their continued existence as daily
examples in countless number revealed, these
agencies have struggled on. The contact through
the central ofi’ice of Catholic Charities with the
Gibson Committee brought about the assignment
of 135 workers, employed on a made-work basis,
and these were distributed to the various agencies.
It made a most valuable contribution and kept the
work going unabated.

It meant keeping the buildings open the whole
day to serve the unemployed; it meant the pro-
motion of activities such as dramatics, music, box-
ing, wrestling, etc., for all classes that otherwise
would have been denied. It meant extending ac—
tivities to densely populated streets set aside for
play for groups somewhat removed by distance
from a recreation center. Other employees so
assigned studied the possibility of extending this
type of work through our various parishes in
which there are usually halls or other buildings
and equipment available for leisure-time pursuits.
There have been compiled and issued in mimeo-
graphed form thirty-four pages of material de-
scribing the great wealth of recreational activities
available free or at low cost within and near the
city.

Since the Gibson Committee ceased its activi-

ties—and this resulted in the withdrawal of this
supplementary assistance—the codes have short-
ened hours of labor and the problem of leisure
has been increased with resources to meet this
increased problem considerably lessened. That is
the city’s plight today.

We witness the assignment of large sums to
provide work so people may exist. Should we not
consider the possibility of having funds provided
to create work which will help people not only to
exist but also to live well, physically, mentally,
socially and spiritually? Our recent Conference
stressed time and time again social justice for all.
Does social justice end when bread alone is
provided?

Conditions today are changing—all must keep
step and help bring about a better equation of
social justice. It is perhaps not too much to ex-
pect that from these deliberations a well-thought
out constructive program may result. The crying
need for leadership, or the training of adequate
leaders may result. I am confident that if a con—
structive program is developed, if resources can
be mobilized and the present work—which but
scratches the surface—can be made more exten-
sive, our agencies will welcome the opportunity
to do their part. I have especially in mind one
organization, the Catholic Boys’ Clubs, with six
different clubs strategically centered, trained per-
sonnel, equipped. These clubs already have had
three years intensive experience in dealing with
this problem. They can expand readily without
difficulty, the overhead remaining the same. What
is needed is trained leaders. I want to stress again
the need of keeping any work along these lines
on an individual basis. \Ve must reach those in
particular who, lacking family ties, must seek
their recreation away from home.

Facilities for the Leisure
oi Young Women

By TERESA M. FIELDS
' Director, Carroll Club, Inc.

8 I UNDERSTAND 1T, 1 am to discuss three ma-
jor questions at this hearing: I. What do

people want in the way of leisure-time ac-
tivity? 2. How much of it are they getting?
3. What additional opportunities and facilities are
needed in New York to provide enjoyable use of

enlarged leisure?

THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AND LEISURE TIME 479

In dealing with the question “what do people
want,” I shall confine my evidence to my experi-
ence with the group with which I am now work-
ing, The Carroll Club, Inc. While this is a select-
ed group of Catholic girls and women who
belong to a dues-paying club with a program
which offers a wide range of free and pay events.

I believe that for our purpose it is representative

of the interests of many thousands of women in
the metropolitan area who are by no means to be
classed underprivileged.

\Ve find that a desire for physical activity is
almost universal, and is not confined to any par-
ticular age group. Swimming, tap, rhythmics and
social dancing, corrective exercises, tennis, golf,
squash, riding, hiking and organized games, such
as basketball, indoor baseball and field hockey are

all popular. The use of our pool and gymnasium.

by outside groups at the hours when they are not
used by members has greatly increased this year.
In fact, the number who tell us they formerly
used school or neighborhood facilities which are
closed because of the depression is far in excess
of our ability to accommodate them in either the
afternoon or the evening hours. With sufficient
funds to staff and promote such a project, our
equipment and facilities which now stand idle in
the morning might be made to serve a large num-
ber of people who have morning leisure—en-
forced or otherwise. It could also be made a
training center for volunteer recreation leaders
who might in turn develop wholesome pr0grams
on a parish basis. It might serve a further im-
portant purpose to provide an opportunity for
girls who have trained for recreation but have
not secured positions to obtain experience under
supervision.

On the other hand, our instruction in tennis
and golf is limited by the lack of neighborhood
tennis courts and public golf courses where mem-
bers may conveniently play. The ardor to hike is
dampened by the distance one must go to reach
open spaces as well as by the dearth of leaders
with a knowledge of out-of-doors.

We find an avocational desire on the part of our
membership for instruction in public speaking,
French conversation, interior decoration, home-
nursing and care of the sick, the crafts, photog-
raphy, music and drama. Lectures and discussion
groups exceed in numbers and in point of attend-
ance all types of activity. As to subject matter,
interest in the Philosophy of Religion is far in
advance and is followed relatively by Foreign Af-

fairs, Current Events, Book Reviews and Psy—
chology. Lectures in series are most popular, and
those which involve discussion or supplementary
reading are definitely more successful than those
without. In discussions led by the same indi-
vidual, interest is vastly more sustained than in
those where the leader is changed from time to
time.

Social affairs, such as teas, parties and dances
seem to make a special appeal to girls and women
who are strangers in the city, have moved to a
new locality or who for some other reason de-
sire to extend their personal contacts. The in-
formal dance brings out the younger girls who
are frankly interested in meeting new men and
rarely bring the particular man.

Not to be overlooked is the desire for oppor-
tunity for service to others. One of the most
constant groups in the club sews for orphanages
and hospitals, visits the sick and needy and as-
sists the various community organizations in their
drives for funds.

So much for what our particular group of peo-
ple want and get.

It has been conservatively estimated that there
are within the metropolitan area at least I 50,000
Catholic women of similar age, educational back-
ground and potential interests. The group we
serve is less than 1% of this number. While no
one center could hope to serve this whole geo-
graphical area, one center, adequately staffed and
used as a laboratory could plan, train leaders,
and supervise on the parish basis a leisure time
program which would be a contribution to the
community.

It is my firm conviction that one of the most
important factors in the solution of this whole
leisure time problem which we are facing is lead—
ership, both professional and volunteer. And an
equally important one is a proper attitude on the
part of the public toward organizations working
in this field. Colleges which receive endowments
and subsidies are not looked upon as charities but
educational institutions. Are not the character
building agencies just as truly educational and
should they not be as generously endowed if their
standard of work merits it?

With all due respect to those who contend that
leisure activity must be what the individual
chooses to do—-I must insist that at least the door
be opened to intelligent choice. With all due re—
spect to those who contend that leisure activity

'( Continued on page 493)

Leisure Time Principles

determine how the leisure of the people shall
be spent.

It is not for any group to proclaim that for any
individual at any given time certain activities are
of a higher or of a lower order—so long as such
activities are doing injury to no one.

The first thought ought to be what do men and
women want to do—the next thought what would
they want to do if they had full and complete
knowledge and experience and if facilities were
available.

It is important for all of us to take a long time
view of man—of what has proved permanently
satisfying to him, of the direction in which he has
been evolving during the centtlries, of all sides of
his nature, of his many moods, to try to help him
to have an environment in which there is a wide.
rich,, and satisfying choice of activities which
seem to him at the time satisfying and which in
combination will in retrospect be found still to
give satisfaction.

It is not desirable that all leisure be spent in
activity. Idleness, loafing, just resting, as well as
contemplation, meditation, have a part in living.
It ought not to be assumed that a person osten-
sibly doing nothing is wasting his time.

It is therefore important that adequate facili-
ties be available for men and women to carry on
in their leisure those human activities which have
been found most permanently satisfying.

That there be a rich va-

IT IS NOT desirable that any group attempt to

satisfaction in any activity is not necessarily con-
ditioned by birth or other external circumstanceS.
that the United States is founded on the idea of
the inalienable right to the pursuit of happiness
and that this right ought not to be confined or
abridged in any way by class distinctions; that the
poorest should have opportunity to discover what-
ever pleas’ure he may either in activity in or ap-
preciation of music, drama, art, sport, nature,
craftmanship.

It is important to society that citizens should
have Opportunities to use their new-found leisure
in service to local, state, and national government,
and in the building of cooperative non-govern-
mental local and national enterprises—such as
those in the field of religion, education and politics.

There is a place for “foolishness and nonsense”
in the use of leisure. It is not desirable that men
and women be serious all the time.

The use of leisure is the particular way in
which an individual expresses his own person-
ality, what he really is, and it is of the greatest
importance that whatever is done should be done
in such a manner as to clear the way for a man to
he himself rather than to make all men more
alike. Leisure activities are the last place where
standardization should be tolerated.

It is true that certain individuals think of their
own leisure largely in terms of “self-improve—
ment,” acquiring culture, gaining an education,

while others primarily wish to have a good time.
to enjoy themselves. While

riety of choice in leisure
lCtiVitiES for the individual
1nd the group.

That there be opportunity
for men and women to ac-
r1uire skills in various forms
of activity so that they may
'letermine intelligently for
themselves whether t h e y
lind enjoyment in such ac-
livities.

In provision of leisure
Opportunity in America
there should always be re-
cognition that ability to find

480

“What are the new meanings which lei-
sure is to bring? First of all, perhaps,
comes f recdom. If leisure is to he mean-
ingful its activities should Flow from free
choice; absence of regimentation is the
basic condition under which leisure time
activities may p roduce valid exPeriences.
But, freedom for what end? In simplest
terms, for the projection of the self; for
purposes of expressing what is latent in
individual personalities. The standard-
izing forces in our civilization are
already so powerful as to make indi-
vidual effort seem meaningless; when
leisure comes we should be ready to find
meaning in the discovery and release of

the self.”—Eduard C. Lindeman.

certain individuals are more
attracted to formal classes.
others start in informally
with music,drama,craftman-
ship, nature activities, phy-
sical activities, purely as rec-
creation and yet while fol—-
lowing their own desires and
doing the things they have
always longed to do, they in-
cidentally obtain education.
self - education which may
have equal or greater value
than what they would have
received from formal classes.

Our Public Libraries and the New Deal

By SARAH BYRD ASKEw

Librarian

New Jersey Public Library Commission

Our public library-indis-
pensable as a morale build-

er, and a friend in need!

our library reading room in the evenings

this winter because they can’t afford light
and heat. Well, that will be just too bad for
everybody because we men who have been col-
lecting in the library and reading will collect on
the street corners and in the back rooms, and you
know what that means. It will be hard on us for
a while, but then we’ll get so we don’t mind and
then it will be hard on everybody, for what you
learn on the street corners and in the back rooms
isn’t so good for the town, and we won’t be much
citizens or much workers if we do get work and
we won’t care much if we don’t get work after a
That’s a letter from a pottery worker
out of a job for two years.

“What shall we do? We have nothing but our
library here—our children go to a consolidated
school in the big town and our church is just open
two Sundays and the minister doesn’t live here
and now they say they’ve got to give up Our
book station. They’ll be sorry, for there’ll be lots
of devilment going on and it won’t be the fault
of the boys and girls, either.” That came in a
letter from a little community on the edge of the
woods.

“WE HEAR that they are thinking of Closing

while.”

“In times of economic and mental
stress such as the present, the need
of mental recreation through books
becomes cspecially important to
citizens of all classes, for every
class has becn touched by the de-
pression, and each pcrson, regard-
less of his standing, feels in his
own way thc necd of literature to
take him out of himself. Citizens
are turning to books for informa-
tion, for inspiration and courage,
for solace and mental rccreation,
and are finding in them a stimulus
as helpful to minds as are physical
sports to their bodies. Reading for
most of them nowadays has become
a vital and significant neccssity.”—
From San Diego, California, Mu-
nicipal Employee, May, 1933.

 

“I have had a chance to learn something this
past year and a whole new world is opened up to
me, and I am going to be a far better worker
when I do get a job, and you bet I am going to
keep on studying. Most of the girls feel that way,
too.” That’s what a garment maker said to a
librarian,

“Your books have saved my reason,” said an
engineer. “When I came in l was at the deep
end and half mad, but now I have both my second
wind and my second sanity. I had to read the.
first page in this book over ten times to get what
it meant, but by the last chapter my mind was so
steady I took it all in first reading.”

“Just those detective stories you lent my hus—
band saved our family happiness this winter. I
thought he would ruin life for the children as he
had’just nothing to do but sit and nag. He stop—
ped nagging when he became interested. He’s
studying now that he’s working part time.” This
from a mother of live whose husband didn’t
work for two and a half years.

“Can’t you send us books to read and books on
something to do or make to keep our boys and
girls from hating home this year when we have
no money for movies or gasoline to get there,”

481

482 OUR PUBLIC LIBRARIES AND THE NEW DEAL

says a letter signed by seventeen mothers living
along a suburban roaCl.

“People are waiting for seats and all the chairs
are taken in our reading room all hours of the
day, and I don’t know what to do when we have
to close at night because they do not want to go
home. It seems terrible to put them out,” writes
a librarian.

“What is that line of people waiting for?”
asked an onlooker. “For some books to come in
for them to take out,” answered the head of the
circulation department of the library.

For years the reading rooms of OUr libraries
have been crowded and lines of people waiting
for books often go away finally without a book
on the subject wanted. People have sat on the
steps waiting until the library opened in the morn-
ing and have had to be begged to leave when it
was necessary to close in the evening.

The Library and the Unemployed
These were the unemployed who were idle
through no wish of their own and, as one ex—
pressed it, “in danger of becoming bums when
we don’t want to be bums.” They came to the

library for an escape from the
h o p e 1 e s s waiting, for new
thoughts instead of the old round
of the squirrel cage without a
way out. They came for recrea-
tion and for relief and found it.
In the library they found some-
thing that kept them going a lit-
tle longer, assuaged some degree
of bitterness and gave some glow
to a leaden sky. The libraries
show three times the readers and
twice the book circulation- and a
large proportion of the new read—
ers are people who never used a
library before. These the libra-
rians aid as best they can, often
with funds d epl e t e d from
necessity.

At a meeting of an Emergency
Relief Committee the question
was asked : “‘Where are the young

You may see a scene like this
on any afternoon, it you will
drop in at the children's room

of the Perth Amboy Library.

men—-——we see the older men at our Y.M.C.A.’s but
where are the young men ?” The answer came
from another member of the committee: "The
yOUng men are in the libraries, udging by what I
saw in the reading room in our town.” During
the time that the road seemed to be ever down-
ward the library combated despair, created mo»
rale, diverted and steadied the minds of thou-
sands upon thousands of the unemployed. Many
whose thoughts might have been for revolution,
destruction and hatred were kept wholesome citi-
zens through the recreation and sane thoughts
furnished often through seemingly unimportan.f
books. If the morale of the unemployed had once
been broken it could not have been mended, for
while we can rebuild material things, when the
morale and courage of a people are destroyed a
nation has nothing with which to rebuild for these
are its tools.

There has come a rift in the clouds, hope is
springing up and numbers have gone back to
work, but many thousands in our own state are
still unemployed and many hundreds, perhaps
thousands, in our own community depending upon
the size of that community In the first flush of

 

OUR PUBLIC LIBRARIES AND THE NEW DEAL 483

the upturn all of the unemployed had high hopes.
As time passes it is harder than before for those
still waiting; they are depleted physically and
morale is at a low ebb. These still crowd the
libraries. Today the libraries are more and more
serving those still idle and turning discontent into
constructive thinking. Not only is this true of
the library as a reading room and for those who
visit it and wait for a chair to be vacant so they
may sit and read, but it is as true of the home.
As the cold months come there will more and
more be the need of indoor occupation and recre-
ation for those who have no money to spend and
must remain idle. As it is the breadwinners who
are idle this need is for all the members of their
families. Books brought into the homes of the
unemployed, mothers and fathers tell us, tend to
relieve monotony and promote family peace after
long idleness and too close as-
sociation has devastated nerves
and tempers.

Demands of the New Leisure

Besides those unemployed.
there are other newcomers
who are now joining the
crowds in the library. With
the NRA codes there comes
to workers leisure never known
before. There fore, many do not know what to do
with it. The tradition has been to train people to
work rather than to live. Now there are many
hours left after the job is done, and workers turn
to the library both for immediate recreation and
to learn how to make recreation for themselves.
Their problem is somewhat different from that of
the unemployed. Many want just to read, to pass
the time at first; many come for one thing and
stay for another; others come with a determination
to learn for themselves. These are seeking some-
thing definite. They want not only to fill in their
time and to escape boredom, but they want some-
thing better than they have ever had upon which
to spend this unexpected gift of a leisure that is
not haunted by want and dread.

To these the library opens up a vista never be—
fore realized of new thoughts, undreamed
achievements and far countries. It gives them an
opportunity for growth as well as a place of
escape, and by putting the best within their reach
it gives them a goal. As one man said, “I always
knew how to work, but I never knew how to
really live, and now I am learning that.” He was

“All the old gadgets for whiling
away the time will steer us into the
doldrums. We must have perma-
nent satisfactions.
ment and creative work give us
something to get up for in the
morning, and it will turn the com-
munity to the wealth found in the
public library.”

taking home with him the books, “What Men
Live By” and “A Little Garden.” He turned at
the door to say, “There’s a waste patch behind the
house in which we live and the man who owns it
says I may work it next Spring and go halves on
anything it grows.” He added, “It won’t be much
for vegetables but it will be fine for me and the
kids.”

A woman sits fingering a dozen books and at
last asks advice because she never had a chance to
learn, she had to work so hard, and now she has
time but she doesn’t have money, and she won-
ders if she can’t learn from books in the library
to know and like things outside, as well as get a
little education. She adds that there are hundreds
like her.

That is where the library comes in. For such
there should be reading clubs and courses, as well
as an adviser. There will be,
for when the people see the
real need they respond. At
present the librarian with her
stan does all she can to fit the
right book, to catch at the
right moment the u n e a s y
minds of those who turn to
the library. Many things have
been started. The members of
a club of young men in one
community insist they are learning in the library
how to amuse themselves next winter. A club of
girls in another community have as their objec—
tive “Learn to have fun the right way and learn
something while you are having fun.” They make
the library the center of this club. Most of them
are from the clothing factory. One of them
laughs and says, “Now all God’s chilluns got
time.” The gift of thought and understanding
and vision can now be made to these people
through the library while giving them recreation.

A great leader among women has said that
young people, well started but unfinished for their
life work, are turned out of our educational mills
and thrown on the scrap heap. Without work of
any kind they were being allowed to stagnate, to
experience futility, to despair, to degenerate.
Many of these the library found in the ranks of
the unemployed and it has helped to steady them
and build them up for the job when it came. Now
that the job is here it gives something more. It
is helping young people to carry on, teaching them
to cope with an upset world and helping them to

develop latent talents.
(Continued on page 493,)

Self-improve-

World

MANCHES-
Arts and
TER, N e w

Sciences .
Hampshire,

has an insti-
tute of arts and sci—
ences which is practical
and unique. Any adult
may enroll in it for
classes in the depart-
ments of fine arts, the Cra'ftworkers’ Guild, in
music, literature, creative writing, original play
contests, home economics, natural science, history
and other subjects. Lectures are frequently given
by noted authorities, and there are special events
along musical, dramatic and literature lines. The
entire cost to an adult is an annual registration
fee of $5.00. For a limited number of classes
there is a fee of $1.00 per class for two terms.
Children up to sixteen years of age pay an annual
registration fee of $2.00. These fees admit to all
lectures and special events. The institute was
made possible by a gift of Mrs. Emma Blood
French, sister of Mr. F. D. Carpenter, who eigh-
teen years ago built the city library as a memorial
to his wife. The library has a special art depart-
ment containing books of great value which serve
the institute art students. The library has a fund
for the purchase of books and treatises on art.

AT THE Dyker Beach
municipal golf course
in Brooklyn, N e w
.York, where over
1,200 golfers play each week—end, the Park De—
partment is constructing a club house for the
golfers. Plans for the building were prepared
under the direction of the chief engineer by the
emergency work architect and a staff of emer—
gency work architects and engineers. A consider-
able amount of salvaged material is being used in
the construction from the demolition, by emer-
gency work employees, of several structures on
property acquired by the Park Department.
About a hundred men from the Emergency Work
Bureau are employed at one time on the building.
with possibly another hundred working on grad-

484

A New Club House
for Golfers

 

Com-rosy Mauchestcr Institute of Arts and Sciences

at Play

ing, landscaping and
road construction. The
club house will be a one
story brick structure in
the Roman style, low
and rambling, with a
slate roof. There will
be two locker wings for
men with showers and
a locker capacity for 300 people, and a women’s
locker wing acconunodating 100 individuals.
These wings are directly accessible to the main
tower entrance through a common lobby permit-
ting independent control from the rest of the
building. A large circular dining room with a
terraced glass open—air dining deck above it com—
mands an unobstructed vista of the course and of
the bay. A spacious lounge, generous terrace, a
grill. kitchen and other accommodations will make
this building an exceedingly well appointed golf
club house.

THE Department of
Playground and Rec—
creation of Los An-
geles, California, re—
ports a yearly decline in the accident rate at mu-
nicipal recreation centers as the result of em-
phasis on safety. The rate of accidents per 100,-
000 attendance has decreased from 2.54 accidents
in the year 1925—1926 to .64 in the summer of

I933-

Accident Rate
Declines

ON November 25th
the children of Jack-
sonville, Florida, en-
joyed a fall play day
program at Lackawanna Park held under the
auspices of the Department of Public Recreation.
Each team entered played seven different games,
each against a different opponent. This plan was
facilitated by having all the participants in two
huge circles which revolved in opposite directions

Jacksonville’s
Play Day'

'at five minute intervals, in this way coming face

to face with a new opponent in a new game area.
the leaders alone remaining stationery. Under
this plan game areas must be uneven in number.

AT THE TOMB OF THE UNKNOLVN SOLDIER 485

At the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier

Each year the seven national organizations
which united during the war in the interests of
the men in service conduct an Armistice Da}
service at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
This year the War Camp Community Service had
charge of the ceremonial, and Frank R. McN inch,
Chairman of the Federal Power Commission and
formerly a member of the staff of the National
Recreation Association, gave the principal address.

Publicizing Leisure Time Facilities
(Continued from page 45])

surprising number of people who have no idea
about our park system. Few people, comparatively
speaking. know how close some of our Long
Island parks are to the great metropolis. In the
afternoons, particularly in warm weather and in
the early evening when we enjoy the benefits of
the daylight saving, it is a very easy matter to go
by bus to some of the state parks which offer
hathing facilities at very greatly reduced charges,
and they are practically what we might call state
playgrounds. Their facilities could be advertised
and made known and I believe they would be
used a great deal more than they are if people
really understood first. where they are, and then,
how easy it is to get to them.

Of course, you will have to have the full co-
operation of the city, the Board of Education, the
officers and colonels of the National Guard, and,
as I said before, the trustees and the directors or
the people in charge of these enterprises which
are both entertaining and educational at the same
time. I don't know whether we can go in for the
community chorus or not. It might be tried in one
of the armories.

In the discussion which followed Mr. Smith
was asked whether it was advisable to try to
secure at the present time more facilities such as
Jones Beach. He said he believed half a dozen
more such properties could be used, but with the
present economic conditions it would be exceed-
ingly difficult to acquire them. In his opinion
little can be done to develop New York’s water-
front until the problem of sewerage disposal is
settled.

Mr. Smith urged again the importance of pub-
licity for the facilities available and the desirabil-
ity of the opening of museums and similar insti-

At last - 

in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 
  

     

Patent Pending

 
  
  
  
  
   
    
  

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy.
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-

her. The five tubular

rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

   
 
  

The suspension

clevises are re-
versible, doubl-

ing the life of
the seat.

 
 
    
 
    
  

  

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

    
    

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

 
   
   

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

486 THE YOUNG MAN AND HIS LEISURE

DIAMOND OFFICIAL COURTS
FOR INDOORS OR OUT

 

DIAMOND

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to
professionals. Excellent for amateurs. Just
what's needed on a playground. Will
stand up under severest treatment. Dia-
mond Officials made straight or curved toe
callt, hard or soft [dead falling). Junior
model for ladies and children.

  

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

 
   

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth, Minn.

tutions at night. He himself, he said, was a well
grown man before he saw the inside of the Mu-
seum of Natural History because he never had
time to go there.

The Young Man and His Leisure

(Continued from page 456)
not know that there are gymnasia available. That
is a lack of coordination in the local community.
In other words, I don’t know of any community
where this thing is well organized so that these
various services can be integrated. We certainly
need the development along all three of those
lines, particularly, I think, in the field of recrea—
tional guidance, a very important field which
ought to be opened up; recreational guidance,
which would enable you to guide the leisure time
of special cases and of children in general, just
in the same way as you give them vocational guid -
ance. You don’t have the knowledge, you don't
have the facilities, you don’t have facilities used
that could be used in many cases, and you have an
unwillingness to use facilities because they are not
attractive and because leadership is not attractive.
All those factors enter in, so that to improve your

program, you have to work to improve it all the
way along the line. Just what you would do
would depend again on the situation in a given
local community.

MR. BRAUCIIER: I would like to ask Profes—
sor Thrasher what kind of activities he finds most
in demand by these boys in these particular areas?
Is there any considerable demand for educational
classes, more formal work?

MR. THRASHER: I think that demand has to
be created and the work made attractive. But the
chief demand in these areas is for athletic activ—
ity. That is a basis of appeal that never fails. On
the other hand, there is no reason why the other
types of demand could not be stimulated. I do
not believe that leisure time activities are entirely
a matter of self-expression, as I believe that they
are educational primarily. Rather than giving the
young people the opportunity to express them-
selves, we are as representatives of the commun-
ity giving them an opportunity to be good citizens,
as we have a certain selfish motive behind our
recreational program, and a recreational program
should be designed basically as an educative pro-
gram, although incidentally they will find self—ex-
pression, and therefore work in the arts and crafts
and music and all kinds of classes where you don’t
have the demand for it can be made attractive and
it can be stimulated. You find great differences in
different nationality backgrounds. You find Jew-
ish boys, for example, are much more interested
in literary societies and in that type of activity.
whereas Italian boys are much more interested in
athletics. The sort of pr0gram that may appeal
to one may not appeal to the other.

MISS HOEY: Isn’t it true that your money
should go into leadership, because you have not
money available for buildings in many areas?

MR. THRASHER: I agree with Miss Hoey that
money invested in leadership is far more fruitful
than money invested in buildings and equipment
You can make an old store a very attractive place
if you have the right leadership even without
equipment, that is being done all the time. On the
other hand, you can have a very fine playground
and if you don’t have the leadership the play-
ground itself may become a hang—out for gangs
in the same way that a pool room becomes a hang-
out. If you build a playground you have to ex-
pect to put enough money into leadership to be
able to make the playground effective and that is
very often what we haven’t done. We have got
the playgrounds and we don’t support them.

LEISURE IN ITS RELATION TO CRIME

487

  

inside to replace.

4. Perfectly balanced.

RELIABLE

C. B. Webb Co.

Why Experiment?

Buy the Ball Your
Fellow Coaches Use

Superior because :

1. Nearer to regulation equipment.

2. Patented fool proof valve - no dust cap to lose -
no metal edge to cut user - no complicated valve

3. Easy to inflate v with standard basketball pump.

MANUFACTURED IN SIX SIZES
PRACTICABLE

THE WEAVER SCHOLASTIC BALL

Write or ask your dealer for prices

200 Fifth Ave. New York City

 
     
  

    
   
   
   
    
     

ECONOMICAL

      
   
     

 

MR. JOHNSON: Do you think that the interest
which now holds boys in undesirable hang—outs
can be readily transferred to places of wholesome
recreation?

MR. THRASHER: I think there is no question
about it at all. It has been demonstrated time and
again that that can be done. Of course, there is
always a tendency to bolt control in these sections.
They would rather stay after twelve o’clock. They
would rather play pool for money, and they re-
sent rules. But the recreation that has been de
veloped in these areas under proper leadership
with proper support has demonstrated conclu-
sively that properly organized it can compete suc-
cessfully with the pool room, with the street, with
the taxi—dance hall, with the candy store, with the
gambling room, and any of the other adjuncts of

the street which are so demoralizing in their
influence.

Leisure in its Relation to Crime
(Continued from page 457)

to how much its people are concerned with health-
ful, wholesome recreation and amusement.

MR. BRAUCHER: We have been having fre—
quent cuts in budgets for recreation, and private
contributions have been reduced. What would
you do to educate public opinion to this whole
question so as to keep up the appropriations for
recreation, if you were responsible?

MR. MULROONEY: Publicity is the only an-
swer, and your best argument is the condition of
youth, how much it means to youth. You have to
solidify all your support, meetings of the Board
of Estimate or similar bodies, and investigate the
necessity of such an appropriation.

Miss HOEY: Isn’t it extraordinary that you
can get money for corrective measures where you
can't for preventive measures?

M R. lVlULROONEY: They spend thousands and
thousands of dollars trying to reclaim criminals
and will not spend some of the money and some
of the time in attacking the evil at the roots.

Leisure and Crime Prevention
(Continurd from pagr 459)

Now, lots of different things should be pro-
vided if children are to make a well-rounded use

488 . THE PLACE OF DRAMA IN LEISURE TIME LIFE

of leisure. Of course you can’t force a boy who
is crazy about football to go in ‘to a party, but
with skillful guidance and clever work you can
get the athletic boy or girl interested in other
forms of recreation. and the bookish child per-
suaded to take up some athletic activity. Children
cannot be expected without direction to select
their recreation wisely, any more than they would
a balanced food diet. The child who is early given
an appreciation of good reading will have much
of his leisure time taken care of profitably and
pleasantly throughout life. Yet the books and
magazines, like the motion pictures made most
available for our boys and girls, can be described
in general as “tripe,” and provide little, if any,
mental food on which sound tastes and life habits
can be built up. Instead they are often productive
of delinquencies. “Our Movie Made Children,”
by Henry James Forman, I would suggest for a
popular summary of studies made by the Payne
Foundation.

We should try to teach children how in their
leisure time they can have fun, good health, find
adventure, cultural and spiritual development.
However, there is no quick and patent device to
train children to use leisure wisely any more than
there is to secure any other education. With
adults the best we can do is to make recreation
facilities easily available, if possible, as available
in New York City as our public schools, and not
just permit them to feel that they have got to go
to Coney Island or Jones Beach or somewhere far
off in order to have any recreational activity.

We have made marvelous beginnings in almost
every direction in New York City in recreation,
and we should extend those activities of the
agencies that have given so many years to 15m:
service before we develop new ones. But they
ought to be extended, sometimes going out of the
formal buildings into homes, where they can be
secured for recreation, or into school buildings
or churches or the different spots where the peo—
ple can come together naturally in their own
conununity.

Leisure and Mental Hygiene
(Continued from page 461)
agree with you if the person who does the coun—

ciling has the adequate knowledge to do it and
doesn’t depend on the milk of human kindness
and good intentions alone.

MISS FISHER: I think your exception is very
well taken. The second question is this: Do you

think that in order for a leisure time pursuit to
contribute to emotional security it is necessary
for the participator to do the thing in question
well?

DR. PRATT: No. I do not. Too much stress in
many instances has been placed by recreation
leaders in all nelds on the excellence of the
product. From a mental hygiene point of view, my
own feeling is that that is distinctly secondary to
the emotional release that comes from doing the
job, whether it is done well or not. Now to some
that is heresy, and I can only express it as my
personal opinion.

The Place of Drama in Leisure

Time Life

(Continued from page 463)
“The Knights," was, I think, not really entirelv

out of order. I have already mentioned the possi-
bilities that lie in dramatic activities for the learn-
ing and practice of other arts and crafts. Fur-
thermore, being a democratic art, each group
would be a sort of experiment in socialization,
and would aid in the development of natural
leaders so essential in a democracy. And nnally,
perhaps it is not too much to hope that out of a
more wide-spread amateur practice of the art, a
new and better professional art might spring. 
nation of amateurs is sure to produce a higher
professional art. Most of the great musical
artists have been produced in older civilizations
where amateur musicians are more numerous
than they are in our own. And historically this
has been true of the theatre. The historian Froude
called attention to the fact that in Tudor England
“there was acting everywhere,” on the village
green, in the baronial hall, in the courtyards of
inns, and in the Inns of Court. As no great gen-
eral, he says, was ever born in a race of cowards.
so no great playwright was ever deve10ped except
in a people who were devoted to the drama. It
was the wide-spread interest of all classes in
England which made the path straight for
Shakespeare’s predecessors, and which made pos-
sible the triumphant expansion of his own many-
sided genius.

If we encourage the wide—spread practice of
dramatic art in our own country, aside from all
the other values that are sure to follow, we may in
that way find our Shakespeare.

Asked about the possibility of using schbols
as meeting places for groups interested in drama,

MUSIC AS A LEISURE TIME ACTIVITY 489

Mr. Smith said it was very difficult at the present
time to secure the use of the schools because of
the restrictions surrounding them.

To the question, “How could you set in motion
an organization to get groups together?” Mr
Smith answered by suggesting that leaders might
be sent about to gather together groups of people.
employees in department stores, parents of teach-
ers in school, social groups of many kinds, and to
ask them whether they want to put on a play.
They usually do, and after there has been some
successful experience it is possible to build an
organization. “Don't start with any organization
but begin where people are.” There might well be
a central registration of men and women who
would be glad to serve as volunteer leaders for
dramatic groups.

A group should not consist of actors alone but
mechanically—minded people, people interested in
management. and artists of various kinds who are
as important to the play as the players.

Music As a Leisure Time Activity
(Continued from page 465)

growth in the adult. High school students in
orchestras and choruses should be given informa-
tion before they leave as to where their musical
activities may be further carried on; opportuni-
ties should be given to adults to make mUsic to-
gether, and many other avenues of effort should
be opened up. Publicity in regard to this should
be not only in office files but on every library bul-
letin board, in the press, and in every suitable
public place.

Why are we so sure that music should be shown
the same consideration as other important subjects
in adult education? Is there a demand for music
-—-a craving for this expression on the part of
young men and women? '

In 1923 I had an occasion to make an address
in Washington. It was in the adjustment period
after the war. People were eager to discuss what
was and could be of real value in helping this ad-
justment. I can do no better than to quote from
what I said at that time:

“ Iefore the war it would have been difTicult to
say whether the United States was more a thea-
tre-loving or a music-loving nation. But the great
question which economic conditions forced upon
all countries at that time had to be answered
namely, what could the nation dispense with,
what was it necessary to keep? . . . . In America

 

School Activities

The National Extra CurricuIar Magazine

Our Best Testimonial and proof
of unusual Reader Interest—

. . . . the number of SCHOOL
ACTIVITIES readers has in—
creased 400% during the

depression I

Many of our readers tell us that their copies of
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES are in constant demand n0t
only in their schools but at church and other

community functions.

Subscription Rate—only $l.50 per year
($I.‘25 Cash With Order)

THE SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUB. Co.

1013 WEST SIXTH STREET
TOPEKA. KANSAS

 

the choice was made in unmistakable fashion, and
music in all forms, in quantity and quality, de-
veloped and flourished as never before. The war
disclosed the full force of the appeal which music
has for the people of the United States.”

I believe this statement to be equally true at the
present time. \Ve are now going through a period
fraught with consequences as great as the period
following the war. It is certain that the demand
for music has not diminished but has greatly in-
creased in these last ten years. The cultivation of
a taste for music makes for better citizenship,
finer living and a deeper spiritual growth, and I
can conceive of no more satisfying use for leisure
than to make music. To the best of my belief
nmsic has indeed been so regarded throughout the
ages, in every countrv in the world. I

The New Leisure and the School

(Continued from page 467)
financial situation of the schools. The Board of
Education’s budget today, he said, is about $20,-
000,000 less than a normal budget for education
in New York City should be. In view of a budget
of $129,000.000 for the current year all except
about $7,000,000 is for personnel, the largest cut

490 PARKS AND LEISURE TIME

A Magazine for Instructors and
Woodworking Students

0 Class assignments, ready for the stu-—
dents. are at your command in The Home
Craftsman. The working drawings are
complete and unusually large. Every pro-
ject is well illustrated with photographs
and described in clear, simple words. Each
one presented has actually been made, for
it is only in the construction of a project
that the mechanics can be simplified and
flaws eliminated. Each issue carries small
items for beginners, and larger ones for the
advanced student. Workshop hints and
short-cuts in procedure abound in every
issue.

0 A glance at the new number will Show
you why an instructor* in Long Island.
New York, said, “In the public schools I
find your magazine more useful than any

other on the market, and I try most all of
them.”

0 A ten issue subscription will bring you

nearly one hundred projects and workshop
helps. Send a doIIar today!

s“

* Name on request.

THE HOME CRAFTSMAN

DEPT. R o PLAINFIELD,N.J.

 

has come in this item. The result has been that a
great many of the activities known as the “fads
and frills” have suffered.

The community centers have been cut, the idea
being not to cut the number of .centers but the
personnel. “Those of us,” said Dr. Campbell,
“who know about the operation of these centers
from personal experience know that you can’t
cut personnel and operate the centers properly.
Getting a mob into a school yard isn’t conducting
a recreation center. It’s essential to have workers
there who will properly guide the recreation if it
is to have any lasting effect on the individual and
the community.”

Other cuts have been made by increasing the
number of pupils per teacher. In the high schools
in 1931 the ratio was one teacher for every
twenty-eight pupils. The ratio today is one
teacher for thirty-one and a half pupils. With
228,000 senior high school pupils this is a large
item. The number of nights during which evening
high schools are open has been cut from five to
four and supplies have been cut to the bone. The
Board of Education is faced with the problem of

having the State cut down its appropriation, with
the result that between the school year of 1932
and the year 1933-34 the reduction in State aid
was about $7,500,000.

In reply to the question as to whether the
schools are making any special studies regarding
possible changes in curriculum or teaching meth-
ods in the face of the new demands, Dr. Camp-
bell said that the Elementary Schools Division
has been holding committee meetings for over two
years. The high school teachers have been meet—
ing for about a year and a half considering this
problem. All of the committees are advocating a
greater stress upon the emotional development of
the child rather than the intellectual at this par-
ticular time.

Asked whether there was a great deal of red
tape surrounding the use of school buildings for
community purposes, as a number of those tes-
tifying had indicated, Dr. Campbell said he
thought it was not red tape which could not read-
ily be cut, and if it were preventing the use of
the buildings something should be done to see
that it is cut. He pointed out that the Board of
Education is responsible for school property and
can allow its use only under definite rules. The
only charge made is for custodial service.

Parks and Leisure Time
(Continued from page 468)

lawns and play fields and concert grove. A similar
plan for Marine Park has been drawn with pro—
visions for athletic fields, swimming, landscap-
ing, sports and passive recreation, as well as
active recreation.

J'acob Riis Park in the Borough of Queens,
could be further developed providing additional
facilities; Hunter Island, too, could be developed
for recreational purposes. At the lower end of
Van Cortlandt Park. possibly a Municipal Stadi-
um could be erected, or at 208th Street and Sea—
man Avenue. Such a stadium could also be used
for concerts, pageants, athletic sports, and school
boy teams would not be compelled to hire at great
eXpense, commercialized stadiums for their an-
nual track meets, football and baseball games.
There is additional land at Pelham Bay Park
which could be developed as a public beach. On
Staten Island there is a great deal of undeveloped
land, and golf courses could be constructed to ad-
vantage. Our recreation piers could be enclosed
in glass and heating plants installed so that we

THE EXTENSION OF THE WORK OF SETTLEMENTS 491

could obtain some use of them during the fall and
winter months. At the present time, they are
only used approximately six months of the year

In Crotona Park, the small lake could be con
verted into a swimming pool, the size of the beau-
tiful swimming pool at Tibbett’s Brook Park,
Yonkers.

The solution of the problem of this committee
will, I believe, be facilitated (I) by increasing
facilities for the proper use of leisure time; (2)
by increasing the personnel of the Bureau of Rec-
reation; (3) by employing additional skilled
mechanics to deve10p areas, direct field houses and
public gymnasiums, and (4) by the cooPeration
of all social agencies.

Recreation means better health, better citizen-
ship. Why not invest in parks and playgrounds?
Now is the time to stress the importance of this
subject to the general public, to civic organiza-
tions and the officials of all cities in the United
States.

In the discussion which followed Commissioner
Sheehy stressed the hardships which the budget
reduction of more than $500,000 for the current
year had worked. The items now allowed in the
budget include practically only salaries and the
maintenance of animals. Additional materials
come from work relief funds. It has been im-
possible to consider providing the many new fa-
cilities needed, such as baseball fields and other
play areas, which appeal to young people from
sixteen to twenty-one years of age who at this
time especially need such opportunities. A system
of night lighting on existing areas would help
greatly in providing for this group.

The Extension of the Work 0

Settlements ‘
(Continued from page 469)

The second task of the settlements, as I have
already pointed out, is a cultural one. Many of
these activities could be carried on in school cen-
ters or under other public auspices. They range
from Italian drama to chess, from cooking classes
to basketball. Recreation and education are two
aspects of the same thing—the development of
the individual. They go together from childhood
on. It is a truism that work must be play to be
effective, and play must be work to get the most
out-of it. And this is true throughout life. Just
as day schools must incorporate play into the pro-

gram, so evening centers may well furnish any
activity that appeals to people who want to grow

The third task of the settlement is, as has been
said, the active participation in securing social
changes beneficial to the masses of the p0pulation.
The settlements have always been on the firing
line of social change, having been attacked as too
radical by conservatives and as too conservative
by radicals. But they have worked for higher
standards of living and more favorable work con-
ditions, both in influencing public opinion and in
direct legislative action. The only advantage, and
this is a great one, they have had over many civic
groups established for the same purpose, is the
fact that they have been in close contact with the
evils they have combated. First hand informa-
tion is always the most valuable. The settlements.
therefore, may well retain their primary function
as groups of people living in city neighborhoods
to arouse public Opinion, to secure needed cultural
and social services, with the h0pe that as people
become more aware of the value of these services
in the fields of health, recreation and the arts, the
government will recognize the necessity of meet-
ing these needs, and will see that they are met on a
large and adequate scale. It may well be that these
services can be managed so as not to fall wholly
on the tax rate, but rather may be met, in part at
least, by the users of services. A study of this
aspect of the subject is much needed.

In conclusion, the relation of private to public
service in this field of leisure-time activities is not
a matter of dogmatic assertion on either side. It
is a practical question of correlation in the inter-
est of a common end.

Elaborating on her suggestion that there be
organized workers at large—“salesmen of leisure-
time activities”—--—Mrs. Sim_khovitch said it would
be highly desirable to have numbers of these
local organizers scattered around the community.
It would be their function to find out what activi-
ties existed, arouse the interest of people in them,
and secure their participation.

Leisure and Creative Art
(Continued from page 470)

ate jaded minds and discouraged minds. It can
soothe tired nerves and exhausted bodies, but
most of all it can bring a new self-confidence into
the lives of people who have never been required
to be individuals. For people who have been cogs
in the machine there can be opportunity for in-

492 THE LEISURE TIME SERVICES OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER

Read This Letter

“When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book ——
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has served me dozens

of times already. It is, indeed, the
Pool Bible.

"(Signed)

“CAPT. EDW. H. McCaanoN.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo.
Capt. McCrahon was for seven years manager of

Spa Municipa! Pool and Beach. St. Petersburg, FIa.

Send for a C0py To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.

I|4 E. 32nd STREET NEW YORK CITY

 

dividual growth, for individual proof of ability
to do some one thing well, the reaching out and
expending of self to take in more of the life
around and apply it creatively. The Art \Nork-
shop believes that a practical application of lei—
sure is the providing of opportunity for the
creative arts.

Mindful of the utilitarian tendency of our lives.
of the thought trends of our people, the \VOrk-
shop teachers are chosen because of their under-
standing of the social problems of their students,
economic and spiritual, as well as for ability as
artists and teachers. For' a successful project in
the arts the teaching method is of importance.
The goal is self-expression not absolute perfec-
tion of technic.

The forces of standardization in America today
often make individual effort seem difiicult and
meaningless. The use of leisure for active and
not passive application along the lines of indi-
vidual performance is one of the wisest ways of
leisure. The arts used creatively provide one of
the most constructive, as well as one of the most
provocative. roads for the growth of the
individual.

As an indication of the desire of people for
such creative activities as the art workshop pro-
vides, Miss Leslie said that very little publicity
was given to the initiation of the project when it
was started four years ago. Nevertheless it was
necessary to turn away 800 people as only 100
could be accommodated at that time.

Asked about the possibility of using the art
rooms and services of the public school, Miss
Leslie said it would be highly desirable to do this
and that it might stimulate school ofiicials to un—
dertake similar projects after school hours. To
insure maintaining high standards in the event of
such activities being maintained by tax funds in
public buildings. Miss Leslie said there should at
the beginning be a joint understanding between
Some of the organizations which have been work-
ing on these problems and the school center.
Enough experimentation, Miss Leslie feels, has
gone into the project to make available a great
deal of material to any school center interested in
undertaking a program.

The Leisure Time Services of the

Jewish Community Center
(Continued from page 472)

program of the Jewish center is designed to help
the members of our own group to find their ad-
justment and satisfactions in the larger com-
munity. Its approach to this objective is twofold.
The Jewish center seeks to bring into the lives of
its members the finest ideals of American life. It
seeks also to strengthen in its members a devo—
tion to their own traditions and ideals, so that
they may do their part in enriching the culture of
our great city.

The activities which I have sketched in a broad
way are conducted in varying patterns in the in-
dividual centers. These centers are not to be re—
garded. however, as isolated units. In Greater
New York they are held together—some thirty—
as members of the Metropolitan League of Jewish
Community Associations, and nationally—some
three hundred—they are held together by the
Jewish \Velfare Board. The objects of these cen-
tral organizations are to raise the standards of
work, to attract and train competent leaders, both
lay and professional. to bring them into larger
fellowship, to promote their understanding in the
community at large. Even when banded together
they do not stand alone. They are part of a much
larger complex of leisure time organizations. all

OUR PUBLIC LIBRARIES AND THE NEW DEAL 493

of which are dedicated to the development of f ree,
healthy, happy, and useful personalities in
America. These voluntary organizations consti-
tute an essential element in the social program
of a new America.

Activities for Men

(Continued from. page 476)
serving on various committees or as volunteer

leaders of activity groups.

It should be pointed out that the Y.M.C.A. is
an educational agency devoted to the development
in men and boys of character and personality,
motivated by Christian ideals. An important fea-
ture of its program has to do with answering in—
quiries of young men on all kinds of t0pics. Con-
sequently, much attention is given to information
bureaus. Along with information there is avail—
able the counsel of experienced adults.

One of the main opportunities of the Y.M.C.A.
in connection with the larger leisure lies in such
counsel as helps young men to better understand
their own complex problems and to make con-
structive plans for solving them. This process
involves a vast amount of personal interviewing,
there being some 20,000 such interviews in the
one month of last October.

It will be seen that it is entirely impossible in
ten minutes to make any adequate tour of in-
spection of these Y.M.C.A.’s, which for more
than eighty years have been pioneering in helping
young men and boys to make the best possible
use of their marginal time. It may not be out of
place to state in closing that in Spite of great
handicaps, loss of skilled personnel and diminished
financial support growing out of the depression,
these Y.M.C.A.’s are eager to carry on. With
economic recovery already on its way, with an
increase in volunteer services of laymen, with
extra technical help, with adequate financial sup-
port, these organizations will go on increasingly
serving youth in respect to free time and good
character. In the field of young men and boy life
they are planning to be of still larger usefulness
with the increasing leisure growing out of re-
covery and progress in the new era.

In the discussion which followed it was ex-
plained that until 1927 most of the activities of
the Y.M.C..A. were within the walls of buildings.
Since that time there has been a combination of
outside and inside work, the purpose being not to

attempt to do anything which is being done else-
where as well as the Y.M.C.A. might do it. The

Association is maintaining a number of so-called
non-equipment workers who work out in the com-
munity using facilities outside of Y.M.C.A. build-
ings. One branch has no building but uses club
rooms in schools, club buildings, small churches
and other places. The results of this program
have been found very satisfactory.

Facilities for the Leisure of

Young Women

(Continued from page 479)
must be what the individual chooses to do, I must
insist that the door at least be opened to intelli—
gent choice. In so far as we achieve this we shall
bring into our every day lives that which we all
need—“knowledge and beauty and ideals, books
and pictures and music, song and dance and
games, travel and adventure and romance, friends,
companionships and exchange of minds. contact
with all that has been said and done by the aris-
t0cracy of the human mind and soul through all
the ages.”

In reply to the question whether she thought
any part of the work she had described might be
carried on by a public agency or should be pri—
vater maintained, Miss Fields said she felt it
might be done by both. There are some people
who prefer to get their leisure time activities in a
particular group with the members of which they
have common interests. Some prefer to have them
in other ways. There are many people for whom
the mingling of the social motive with the educa-
tional is more important than a sense of belong—
ing. Some people who will not go to a school for
a particular class like very much to attend a class
with a group of people they know and like and
take the same course which might be had much
nearer home with less effort. Some of the girls

who use the Carroll Club most live farthest away
from it.

Our Public Libraries and the New Deal

(Continued from page 483)

New Interests Created

Thousands who have never had jobs and who
are in danger of getting habits of idleness are
caught in the reading rooms of these libraries be-
cause they want to read to get away from them-
selves. They cannot afford to buy the cheap
magazines and so are there given the first stimu-
lus toward thinking since leaving school. Contact
with the worth while crowds out the time wast-

494 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
i of Interest to the Recreation Worker i

     
   

      

MAGAZINES

The Epworth Highroad, September 1933
You Can Build Good Times, by Lynn Rohrbough
A Give-Away Party

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, October
1933
What Are Educational Frills? by Marvin S. Pittman
Pageantry, a Vehicle of Self-Expression, by Mar-
jorie Kelly and Gwendlyn Drew
Let the Dance Section Serve You! by Mary P.
O’Donnell
The Story of Speedball for Women, by Helen M.

Barton

The Use of Physical Capacity Tests in a Small City
System, by Harry G. Oestreich

Touch Football—the Fall Sport for Boys, by
Edward J. Storey

Soccer Meets the Newer Needs, by John Edgar

Caswell
Bolo Ball

The Instructor, October 1933
Physical Activities in Rural Schools, by Katherine
B. Peavy and G. Darwin Peavy

The Guardian, October 1933
Pick-Your-Pilot Party

Party Favors, by Helen J. Biggart
Hobbies

The Parents’ Magazine, December 1933
A Christmas Pageant in Three Rehearsals, by Helen
Perry Curtis

The Epworth H ighroad, January 1934
Games Around the World, by Lynn Rohrbough

The Nation, November 1, 1933
The Physical Director and the Depression, by Kath-
erine Ferguson

The Nation’s Schools, November 1933
New Secondary School Designed to Serve Both
Educational and Community Needs, by Charles L.
Spain
Child Study. December 1933
Riding a Hobby at College, by Walter Kahoe
Books of the Year for Children, by Mrs. Hugh
Grant Straus

The Epworth H ighroad, December 1933
Fun in the Game Room, by Lynn Rohrbough

Parks and Recreation, November 1933
Building Ski Jumping Hills, by Harold A. Grinden
Basketball
Fishing in the Union County Parks

PAM PH LETS

Bibliography of School Buildings, Grounds and Equipment
By Harry Lester Smith and Forest Ruby HofTsinger
Bulletin of the School of Education, Indiana Uni-

versity, Bloomington, Ind.
Vol. IX, No. 3, June 1933. Price $.50

Calendar Covering Staff Instructions for [933,
Albany, N. Y.

A Summer—Camp Experiment, by G. Watson James
Art at Keewaydin
Reprints from The American Magazine of Art
American Federation of Arts, Barr Building, Wash-
ington, D. C.
New York State Parks
Available from State Council of Parks, State Ofiice
Building, Albany, N. Y.

er’s attraction. Not only do these readers find
fiction but also books on recreational methods for
getting the best from out-of-doors. Again, the
books on handicraft are reviving forgotten handi-
craft in some individuals and groups. Others,
through books, are learning to entertain them-
selves instead of being entertained, and to de-
velop talents and desires through avocations.

The fact that there are dozens of reserves on
books on rug making, raising tropical fish, wood
carving, bee keeping, gardening, rabbit raising.
pigeon raising, sewing, knitting, embroidery,
fancy cooking, landscaping and a hundred and
one of the things that men and women and boys
and girls can make and do in their leisure time at
home and abroad, show the desire of these people
for an outlet to a hidden talent or an accomplish-
ment of a secret desire.

Recreation goes farther than entertainment, for
in many of these who drift to the library through
sheer boredom, there is stirred a spark of desire
for self-improvement, and the books on trades
and sciences, on literature and history, are as
popular as the latest novel and have a long list of
reserves that in former days were accorded only
to the best seller in fiction. Many of them are
turning to government and economics foi', as one
boy said “Well, we will have to clean it up, you
older people have certainly made a mess of
things.” Our libraries are converting these com--
ing citizens into persons who at least want to
think instead of being blind revolutionists de—
manding change with violence. Those who are
now groping not so blindly, after all, may in time
become thinkers.

Said a man when told that a book which he
needed badly couldn’t be bought because of lack
of money, “I may cost the state much more than
that if I can’t get some of those things now.”

As never before libraries are a factor in the
daily life and welfare of the people and the
community, and often a bulwark against mis-
fortune. Adult education, recreation, leisure—
time occupation and means of further education
are not today academic subjects, nor do they en—
gage the attention of the welfare worker and
educator alone. They are living and vital prob-
lems of the people at large and the immediate
concern of the community, state and nation, so
that the peace and happiness of the people may
survive second only to the feeding, housing and
clothing of the destitute and re-employment of
the unemployed. Libraries are the keystones of
the great part of this work.

New Books on Recreation

 

Spend Your Time -- New York's

Resources for the Use of Leisure

' - 'eacher Association of Lincoln
coSgEiigli, I'I‘yeattili:r1:Eli-Zeciltlege, Columbia University. $1.00.
1113 SPLENDID compilation of New York’s leisure-time
T services lists opportunities for participation in fine
and applied arts, drama and dance, music, libraries,
science, and parks, playgrounds and athletic fac111t1es.
There are also sections on radio education, places of h1s-
toric interest, civic institutions, stamps, coins and pho—-
tography, transportation, communication and commerce.
Supplementary refercnces include adult education cen-
ters, reading lists, guides to New York, foreign culture
activities, and special trips. It is in every sense of the
word an indispensable book for all interested in New
York’s resources for the use of leisure.

l'm Busy

By Maude Dutton, Lynch. Houghton, Mifiiin Company.
Boston. $1.50.

ABOOK WRITTEN in popular style for children. with

many activities attractively presented. There are
suggestions for such varied activities as making tree
houses and cave houses; for playing automobile show
when sick in bed; for home-made card games, for the
care of pets and for the making of scrapbooks, charts
and maps. One chapter is devoted to parties, such as an
animal party and an Indian powwow. There are many
attractive illustrations. '

0

Motion Pictures and Youth
The Macmillan Company, New York.

THE INFLUENCE of motion pictures upon children and

youth has been thc subject of thoroughgoing re-
search by the Committee on Educational Research of the
Payne Fund at the request of the Motion Picture Re-
search Council. The studies were designed to secure au—
thoritative and impersonal data which would make pos—
sible a more complete evaluation of motion pictures and
their social potentialities. The result of the studies, pub-
lished in a series of volumes, throw much light on the
subject. “The Emotional Responses of Children to the
Motion Picture Situation,” by Wendell S. Dysinger and
Christian A. Ruckmick are discussed in a volume re-
cently published in which also appears “Motion Pictures
and Standards of Morality,” by Charles C. Peters
($2.00). In connection with the findings on emotional
responses to children the report states: “Our records
are clear on this point: profound mental and physio-
logical effects of an emotional order are produced. The

stimulus is inherently strong and undiluted by post-

adolescent critical attitudes and accumulated and modi-
fying experiences.”

There has also been published a summarizing volume
which contains in addition to the summary, “Motion
Pictures and Youth,” by W. W. Charters, a section on
“Getting Ideas from the Movies” by Perry W. Holaday
and George D. Stoddard ($1.50). The solution of the

moving picture problem, the reports point out, have not
been studied in these fact finding investigations. “There
is no single solution or formula that will meet the situa-
tion. . . The situation points unmistakably to the es—
tablishment by the producers of a children’s department
whose primary function will be to experiment, to invent,
to try out, to eliminate, to press persistently until they
produce proper solutions to the problem. . . . The simple
obligation rests upon those producers who love children

to find a way of making the motion picture a beautiful,
fascinating and kindly servant of childhood.”

The Modern Hand Book for Girls

By Olive Richards Landers. Greenberg, Publisher, New
York. $1.50.

APRACTICAL BOOK designed to help the modern girl

from eight to eighteen make the most of her time
and appearance, develop inner resources and provide her-
self with many hours of happy activity. There are many
suggestions dealing with physical things such as her
health, appearance and dress. And there is, in addition,
much information on music, art, dancing, reading, per—-
sonality development, social etiquette and entertaining.
A storehouse of information is offered on hobbies and
handcraft, on cooking, dressmaking, millinery and gar-
dening. Chapters are included on marionette plays, glee
clubs, orchestras and other leisure-time activities The
book represents an unusually comprehensive collection of

things of interest to the girl and intimately related to
her life.

Games for Small Lawns

By Sid G. Hedges. J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadel«
phia. $1.25.

How TO GET the most fun from a small lawn is the prob-

lem discussed in this practical book. It offers sugges-
tions for more than seventy games none of which are
out of the question for lawns not larger than seven by
fourteen yards. Many of them can be played in smaller
spaces. The games have been classified as net games,
other regular games, occasional games, team games, mis—
cellaneous games and lawn party programs. Official
rules are given for a number of games, and the author

tells in some instances how the equipment may be easily
made. There are many illustrations.

495

496 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Picture-Puzzle Posters.

By Frances Rogers. Ray Long and Richard R.
Smith. New York City. Price $1.50.

Picture-Puzzle Posters present a new handcraft that
appeals alike to children and grownups. The book con—
sists of “poster keys” and colored cut-outs, which when
fitted prOperly in place upon the “key” make a gay
picture. Beneath each poster key is a sprightly conun-
drum that is fun to try to guess before attempting to
make the poster. Parents who have children at that
paper-paste-and-scissors stage will find that this book
offers not only pleasurea-ble occupation for the child, but
also an aid towards deveIOping his sense of color and
proportion. The posters take constructive effort to com—
plete, and the child will -be delighted when he finds that
he has two of each poster—one to be left in his book
and the other to be cut out and framed for his room. He
may obtain framing materials from the publishers for
35 cents. There is enough ingenuity demanded in work-
ing out the puzzle-posters to appeal to adults. The
leader of a social evening who is looking for new ideas
will find she can make a novel and interesting game from
Miss Rogers' book. It also fits well into an arts and
crafts program. affording an entertaining and educa-

tional project in poster making.

The Modern Dance.

By John Martin. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York. $1.50.

In this book the author attempts to give a full ex-
planation of the modern dance, its distinguishing charac-
teristics, and the ways in which it differs from other
types of dancing. With this as a starting point, the
author discusses dance forms and the relation which ex-
ists between the dance and other arts. The volume
should prove particularly interesting to teachers and

students of the dance.

Snap J udgment.

By Herbert E. Marks and Jerome S. Meyer. Simon
& Schuster, Inc., 386 Fourth Avenue, New York.

$1.00.

-Amusing entertainment which tests memory and power
of recognition is offered here. How good is your memory
for people, famous paintings and well known buildings?
This game will test it to the limit.

The Popular Book of Entertaining.

By V. C. Alexander. J. B. Lippincott Company.
Philadelphia. $1.00.

There are eighty-one games and competitions and seven
playlets in this -book which is full of suggestions for
party programs for young and old. Story competitions
form an interesting section.

Community Activity Manual.

A Program of Recreational Activities and Leisure-
Time Guidance. Published by the General Boards of
the M. I. A., Salt Lake City, Utah. $.50.

This is the second activity manual issued by the M.I.A.
presenting a recreation program for the use of com-
munity activity committees. It contains a study of rec-
reation as it pertains to various age groups and to the
community as a whole, courses in dancing, drama, music,
public address, storytelling and conversation, and sug-
gestions for M.I.A. events, holidays and special occa-
_sions. While the book is designed for the use of a
special group, it contains much of interest to recreation
workers in general.

Standards for Junior High School Buildings.

By N. L. Engelhardt. Bureau of Publications,

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York
‘City. $1.50.

In this book, prepared for use in connection with the

Strayer-Engelhardt score card for junior high school

buildings, detailed information on sites and layout of

grounds offers much of interest to recreation workers.
“To carry out a program for the junior high school no
site of less than ten to twelve acres will suffice,” states
the report. “The aim in planning play fields should be
to provide a variety of outdoor activities and in such
numbers that most of the pupils can be occupied at one
time in different types of recreation.” The report con-
tains diagrams for all the major sport courts and fields
and gives specifications for construction. Standards for
the construction of the buildings themselves include sug-
gestions for gymnasiums, assembly rooms, stages, house-
hold arts and industrial arts departments, wood working
rooms, drawing. music and art rooms and similar

facilities.

Dance As An Art-Form.

glyséa Meri. A. S. Barnes 8: Company, New York.
The story of dancing in many countries is told in this
interesting book which begins with a defense of danc-
ing followed by a brief history of Occidental dance art,
the ballet dance, the free dance, the ethnologic dance.
Eastern dances, the Spanish dance, European national
dances, and American dances. The book concludes with
an unusually complete glossary of terms and a bibli—

ography.

Athletics for Girls.

Prepared by Department of School Health and Phy-
sical Education of the National Education Associa-
tion. Published by National Education Association,
1201 Sixteenth Street, Washington, D. C. $.10.
This pamphlet dealing with principles and policies has
been published in an attempt to answer some of the
questions asked by peOple who are concerned with ath-
letics for girls. Although designed especially for the use
of administrators and teachers in junior and senior high
schools it will be of interest to recreation workers, phy-
sical directors, parent-teacher associations and similar
groups and all who are working for the welfare of girls.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAvUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EowARo W. BIOOLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILIAH BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUREE DAVISON, Locust Valle , L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EOISON West range, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, “72151:.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYOEN, New York, N. Y. .
MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS OELACY HYOE Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EowARo E. LOOmS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCUROY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York,  Y.
MRS. AuEs W. WAOSWORTH, JR., Washmgton, D. C.
. C. ALSH, New York, N. Y.

REOERICR M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
{:5}! G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H. .

RS. WILLIAH H. WOOOIN, 11., Tucson. Ariz.

