_- at!
yam-«W

W”

What Holds Recreation Back From Making Its
Greatest Contribution to Human Welfare?

T is charged that recreation is held back in America because its administration in most com-

I munities is not unified, because responsibility for it in the city government is divided up be-

tween park boards, school boards and other boards. Others see recreation discredited because

it is exploited by various groups for their own specialized group ends. Recreation is used for bait

for religion, morality, a certain system of culture rather than for the undiluted good of the indi-
vidual to be served. Thus it is claimed the progress of recreation is held back.

Unihcation, centralization, regimentation, control are not particularly desirable words to
couple with recreation. Not here, however, does the greatest difficulty lie. Of course we who
work in the recreation movement are not concerned about what holds recreation back, but rather
what keeps men and women from obtaining the greatest recreation values out of living. In part
what holds recreation back from making its greatest contribution to living is the fundamental
philosophy of the best people in America—that work in itself and for itself is a great virtue;
that there is goodness necessarily in doing what is disagreeable; that what is pleasant and agree—
able and brings happiness must be wrong; that there is value in wearing a hair shirt.

It is recognized that children should play and be happy, but for adults to continue to play
just because they want to, because they find “durable satisfaction” in it is thought to show that
they have not grown up, that they are childish. Of course one may play to keep up one’s health.
One may play to improve oneself, to prepare for a later life that may never come. One may play
to aid one in business connections. One may play to build up, or to keep up his morale for. work.

But one must always have an excuse for merer living, for playing. The thought of a
grown man right here and now in the present having the nerve just to live, just to do things
because he wants to—why it violates all our established American habits.

We must give excuses even to ourselves for daring to live in the present. We must apolo-
gize. We must hide our present play as adult education, as some serious and painful process being
carried on as a duty. we are becoming cultured. We are growing. We are improving ourselves.
\Ne would test everything by how far it has educated us. Some of our number would even like
scales to measure our growth, our education from year to year. And there are many who set out
to make the great mass of the American people in their free time self—conscious prigs.

To live and to live gloriously as much of the time as possible—that is the thing.

Except as we remain as little children with child hearts we do not continue in the kingdom
of heaven here and now.

Soon we shall have a new generation that has not made a god of work, that does not apolo-
gize for “having fun,” that without self-consciousness, without priggishness, can live in the
present as well as in the past and in the future.

Such a Periclean age is surely coming for America, but whether it. too, shall pass will de-
pend in part upon the self-discipline of the men and women who have grown up from childhood
not afraid to play.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

March, 1934

 

545

 

. .’ f I- _, n " .‘ II
'Yews*:tamocee;tszmar macsaMataeaeeg-m l
n " ,1 ,. r c ‘ "j h f' k ' '- '.
much tamawmrmm.m 3%--.Merwmrmésam
b ‘ ' III» I- ... P ,1 l- - I c- . I -,V F L
55 are sag-9e cane-es: -: s: Eagerekuim sane-very amsgsmzsemzagamg

‘y 'u“ " ‘ a l‘ 'n —- l’ a I ’l
iqmqmm'maga—amcmzugeretée meéhwmmiyeméaf

What ,OOO

Youxc COUPLE,
A highly trained and
experienced pro-
fessionally, for th ree
years have had only oc-
casional employment.
They have been obliged
to give up all activities
they formerly engaged
in. such as concerts, lec-
tures, theaters, operas,
taking advance courses,
memberships in clubs,
reading new bools, boat-
ing and week-end trips.
"Tennis and swimming
are out. Fortunately we

The National Recreation Association an-
nounces the completion of a study of
what 5002 men and women in twenty-
nine cities do in their leisure time. The
information was secured through per-
sonal interviews and the use of a ques-
tionnaire listing 94 activities. Many in-
dustries and professions were repre-
sented and there was a reasonable bal-
ance as to nationality groups and sexes.
More than half of the individuals were
from 21 to 35 years of age. Four-fifths
lived in eight cities—Boston, Water-
town and Worcester, Blassachusetts;
Newark, Irvington and )Iillburn, New
Jersey; Durham, North Carolina, and
Utica. New York. Copies of the report
of the study may be secured for $1.00.

- Peeple Do in Their Leisure Hours

urable activities leading
to discouragement and
desperation.

There is the woman.
an executive for fifteen
years, always with a large
salary who has been un-
employed except for oc-
casional temporary posi-
tions during the past few
years. \Vith funds or
any margin of security
she could have used this
block of spare time to
great advantage. For fif-
teen years her position
involved continuous work

did not play golf m we

are not having to deny

ourselves of that pleasure." A dramatic organizer.
Mrs. K. has attended no theater for three years
except for a few times when invitations were ac—
cepted. “One cannot go on being entertained
when one is unable to return in kind." “'hat do
they do? They can “laugh together” when they
do not know where the next meal is coming from ;
they can still enjoy “just being together.” They
read though they often must wait weeks to obtain
a text book- They "walk andwalk"; spend a
good deal of time studying; write some letters,
but not many- “One's interest in writing dimin-
ishes under such circumstances.” They visit the
library and art museums. and occasionally go to a
15 cent movie.

This is one oi many stories coming out of the
study made by the National Recreation Associa-
tion of what 5,002 men and women do in their
leisure time and what they would like to do- Some
of these stories, coming from the conversations
with many individuals about ways in which they
are spending their free time and from social
workers and recreation leaders in daily touch with
unemployed, show how because of, or in spite of
reduced income people have found new interests
in life and outlets for self-expression. Others
paint the dark side of the picture—the depriva-
tion of social contacts, of opportunity for pleas-

 

during the summer. She

would now revel in this
additional free time if only she could afford week-

ends with her friends. Tennis and swimming are
her particular interests. She would have de-
lighted to volunteer at a settlement house, t9 have
led a glee club, directed dramatic activities or at-
tended plays and concerts. She has done little
else except to hunt jobs from 9 :00 to 5 :00 other
than read or do jig saw puzzles to occupy her
mind. Here is the tragedy of a greatly increased
margin of leisure which has not proved to be free
time because of the great strain under which she
is laboring.

Others fortunately have been able to use their
spare time more advantageously.

An unemployed Italian, a musician twenty-three
years of age, finally realizing that no job was
forthcoming for the present, set out to find a
solution for his problem and incidentally solved
that of more than a score of other jobless musi-
cians. He formed a symphony orchestra of men
and boys with a membership of twenty-five. One
of them qualified as a director. He secured help
in organizing the orchestra at his neighborhood
recreation center where space was furnished for
the rehearsals. The orchestra rehearsed four
hours two evenings a week in winter and two
hours weekly in summer: It has given two con-
certs at the recreation center charging IO and 15

547

548 I/VHAT 5,000 PEOPLE DO IN THEIR LEISURE HOURS

cents admission which has covered the cost of the
music. This lad has a justifiable pride in leader-
ship and a satisfaction in being of use.

A professor of chemistry living in a small New
England town, unemployed for more than a year,
was induced by his wife to join a manual train-
ing group in a neighborhood recreation center
where she was doing craft work. He had never
worked with his hands before, but he closed the
season with a beautiful corner cupboard to his
credit. His wife declared him to be “revolution-
ized”-——there was just‘ no other word which com—
pletely expressed the change in him. “Now he
has an avocation for life,” she said.

A young man who lost his business and his
home was without employment for nearly two
years. He described himself as being in a “ter-
rible state of mind” until it was pointed out to
him that his enforced leisure might be profitably
used in the public recreation center which is town
supported. “The benefits that I have derived
from the recreation activities such as tennis, base-
ball, volley ball, swimming and other sports have
been enormous.” A little later his wife SOUght
recreation at the same center with a resultant
happy change of atmosphere in the home.

- What People Do

Reading newspapers and magazines, the radio,
the movies, visiting or entertaining, reading books
of fiction, 111 o to r i n g ,
swimming, writing let-
ters, reading non-fiction
books, and conversation,
were in that order the
diversions reported by
the most people. The
number ranged fr om
3977 reading the printed
word to 2735 exerting
their conversational pow-
ers. T h e s e diversions
also proved to be the
ones most often engaged

Fathers report that they
are spending more time
with their boys in home
workshops, and many
more activities are now
centering about the
home.

in but the order of popularity was different except
for the first two on the list which again stood
respectively first and second.

Bridge at home, picnicking, attending the legiti-
mate theater, parties or socials, hiking, or card
parties at home were also numerous, each having
more than two thousand adherents. Reading non-
fiction books, be it noted. rated fifth among the
things done most often, though it stood ninth as
to the total number of individuals reporting it.
Family parties were indulged in by almost two
thousand individuals. Playing tennis and serious
study were in close competition for nineteenth
place.

Loafing. which is not without its distinguished
advocates. was far down the list. Playing in bands
or orchestras was near the bottom, along with
croquet, attending evening school, archery and
raising chickens. Taking part in political, church,
or civic activities rated I747 devotees and twenty-
fourth position in point of numbers reporting,
but stood in fifteenth place from the point of
view of frequency of participation.

These recreations center mainly in or about the
home; most of them cost little or nothing: they
are individual and quiet or passive. The elements
of group participation, social intcrcourse, and
physical activity are almost entirely lacking, espe—
cially in the first ten, althotlgh they are more fre—
quent in the next ten. Music, drama, and crafts,

 

Courtesy Radburn, N. 1., Association

I'VHAT 5.000 PEOPLE DO IN THEIR LEISURE HOURS 549

as well as games, sports,
and outing activities rank
low. The number of peo-
ple reached by the pro-
grams of recreational and
educational agencies is small
compared to those who par-
ticipate in activities carried
on individually, either at
home or in informal out-
side activity. A typical case
is that of a housewife who
has been obliged to sell her
car and has therefore had
to give up traveling, calling, picnicking, etc., “is
doing more gardening, both flower and vegetable,
more canning and preserving, has built a fireplace
in her yard, increased interest in the care and
welfare of her two year old baby, and is improv-
ing the grounds and house by obtaining extra
slips and roots from neighbors and friends.”

Frequently it‘ is reported, “I have more time for
the things I enjoy at home” or “curtailed income
has necessitated more home or public recreations.”
Others say they are staying home more with their
children. A number of fathers are making things
with their children; there has been particular
mention of spending more time with their boys in
home workshops.

tions.”

Italians.

What People Want to Do

Tennis, swimming, boating, playing golf, camp—
ing, caring for flower gardens, playing musical in-
struments, motoring, theater going, and ice skat-
ing are the things the people principally want to
do. Hiking. taking part in amateur dramatics,
fishing, listening to the radio also rank high in
their expressed desires. This lends support to
Professor Jesse Steiner’s conclusions in “Ameri-
cans at Play” that at heart the people of the
United States are not “spectators.”

Unlike their present activities, these prefer-
ences are chiefly away from the home, and they
call for vigorous and even strenuous physical ex-
ertion. With one or two exceptions the ten most
desired are obtainable only at some cost to the in-
dividuals either for equipment, instruction or ad-
mission fees. And, what is important to social
planning, m0re than one-half of these activities
and the ones desired by the largest number in-
volve facilities, organization, leadership or other
special provision by public or private agencies of
the community. One may develop a flower gar-

An architect reports, “No work, lots of
time for repairs, gardening, poultry and
reading.” A teacher statcs, “During the
past two Years I have spent more spare
time fostering club work among boys
after school. Havc supervised boys and
men in gardening and have directed
activities in county league organiza-
A young Pole, a sculptor and
architectural designer, with deplcted
funds due to thrce years of unemploy-
mcnt, is using much of his lcisure in a
local civic league, conducting art and

designing classes among Poles and

den on his own lot, but to
finance his own tennis court,
golf course, swimming pool
or camp is beyond his reach.

Considering activities out-
side the home, of which
there were 57 in thc total
list, there was an average of
35—0r 60%—in Boston,
Newark, N. J., W'orcester,
Mass. and Durham, N. C...
in which the unmet desires
exceeded frequent partici-
pation.

There is no consistent ratio between the num-
ber of people desiring to take part in the various
activities and the number already taking part.
Where the majority of people already take part, a
relatively less unmet desire is recorded. On the
other hand, many people would enjoy participa-
tion in some activities in which large numbers
already take part, such as mot0ring and swim-
ming. It is clear that home interests are propor-
tionately better satisfied than outside activities.
The job of providing opportunities for pe0ple to
take part‘ in activities which they would enjoy
doing away from their homes is still. largely to
be done.

Influence of the Depression

The changes in activities in a year’s time, an-
other point covered in the study, were in the direc-

tion of more activities and favored those that cost
little. Listening to the victrola, ice skating, at—

tending the movies, attending the legitimate thea-
ter, coasting, motor camping, pool and billiards,
indoor bowling, and attending amusement parks
are among the activities which fell off, the study

revealed. Dance halls suffered less than any other
commercial recreation. Joining athletic, social,
semi-religious, church, musical and other organi-
zations during the year was reported by I 593 per—
sons, while 569 dropped out, making a net gain
of 1024 for “joining.” Home activities showed
the greatest gain. There was a large increase in
educational interests.

In general, financial limitations rather than
choice dictated a change in pe0ple’s use of leisure.
"Lack of funds”; “no proper clothes”; “inade—
quate facilities in the neighborhood”; “no money
for carfares”; “added duties and responsibilities
due to enlarged households”; “overtime work”;
“too discouraged or worried because of loss of

550 WHAT 5,000 PEOPLE DO IN THEIR LEISURE HOURS

job to concentrate on anything” were among the
reasons given frequently for discontinuing out-
side group activities. The fear of having their
only clothes harmed was mentioned as reason for
not taking part in strenuous sports and games.

A machine designer of fifty lost his job and
had to sell his tools and equipment, thus losing
his private workshop. A man of sixty—five had
to give up his hobby of flowers because of moving
to smaller quarters. A laborer of sixty whose sole
diversion since the loss of his job has been play—
ing a band, lost that when the band broke up be-
cause of financial difficulties.

A man sales clerk of 27 dropped out of the Y.
M. C. A. and gave up an art class, swimming,
fishing, theater and the movies. “A 75% income
cut and present duties make for short evenings
and much night work, preventing study and rec-
reation.” He would like to study art, drama, and
advertising.

The impact of the depression on the people
varied with their own resourcefulness, training,
taste, emotional resiliency, and economic condi—
tion. A sense of insecurity paralyzed all interest
in an effective use of leisure for some unem-
ployed. Others, after vain efforts to secure work,
made the best of the situation and plunged into
recreation or study with more or less enthusiasm.
An ingenious Italian, of a musical family, col-
lected an old piano out of a dump. Some missing
parts were supplied by delving into another dump.
He worked for days putting it all together. The
restored piano is now in enthusiastic use by the
family, all of whom are un—
employed.

Analysis of the activities
of the Boston and Newark
people who numbered almost
one—half of the total with
reference to employment
status, showed that the full-
time employed had a dimin—
ishing variety and frequency
of leisure time activities. The
part—time employed appeared
to enjoy the most favorable
position with respect to range
and increasing richness of in-
terests. \Vhy should the per-
sons fully employed have less
recreation? The answer is a
matter for speculation as far
as the total numbers are con-

 

cerned. The interviews with some individuals,
however, revealed that some were required to
work long hours at low wages, many were actu-
ally caring for relatives in their homes, or were
contributing to their support, and others in fear
of unemployment were saving every penny that
they could. Furthermore, analysis of the em-
ployed group showed that two-thirds of them
were women and girls whose activities were likely
to be more restricted than men’s.

The part-time employed group had the best
balanced recreation diet. They strengthened their
leisure time experiences during the depression,
and their activities were better balanced than those
of any other group both with respect to home in-
terests and outside. This would indicate that
added leisure resulting from part-time employ—
.ment makes possible and is being used for a
richer recreational life.

The entirely unemployed and those only occa-
sionally having jobs are in a much less favorable

position. Obviously they are handicapped by lack
of funds, clothing, and home facilities and by the
mental condition arising from unemployment.
They advanced their recreational status during
the year in question but many types of activities
were entirely closed to them.

If this study is any index, the American people
are less satisfied than heretofore with vicarious
enjoyment of sport, indoor life and the arts, and
want to participate themselves. Community plan-
ning for these satisfactions on a large scale is
called for. Municipalities and counties should
multiply their tennis courts,
and swimming pools, extend
their bathing beaches and
golf courses, and make
ampler provision for boating
and fishing. More art classes,
orchestras or cl a s s e s in

(Continued on page 579)

More nature trails such as
the one developed by the
New Haven Pork Depart-
ment would help to solve
the problem of the office
worker who wrote: “I wish
some organizotion would
foster walking tours or
hiking porties. Sitting at
o desk all day makes one
'stuffy' and dull.”

 

The Leisure Hours of Young Business Women

HE PAST FEw months of
T c o u r s e have lent

peculiar significance to
the whole question of leisure—leisure, which all
too frequently in the past has meant more release
from necessary occupation. But today we are not
satisfied with this negative emphasis. Rather are
we interested in the positive, constructive, dy-
namic values. How may we
inject into the leisure hours
of today, and the longer
leisure hours of tomorrow,
that conception of rich and
purposeful living which is,
after all, our ideal connota—
tion of the word?

Not by theory alone, for
the most elaborate philoso—
phy may falter unless it is
conceived on the basis of
known time and money
limitations, and of ev en
more tragic importance—
known limitations of interest.

Therefore we have examined the present ’status
of the leisure time interests and activities of a
group of young business girls. Just as in the past
we have been accustomed to budget wages, so
have we constructed budgets of time—budgets
based on the analysis of over three thousand
actual diary records—diaries of work-days, of
Saturdays, of Sundays, which give us a vital, liv—
ing picture of lives in small towns and large, in
metropolitan Boston and New York, in industrial
communities such as Bridgeport, in cities of rela—
tively simple social structure such as Bangor,
Maine. These diaries came from secretaries and
stenographers, public school teachers and librari-
ans, research assistants in our universities, clerks
and typists from nationally known business insti—
tutions as well as from the small independent con-
ccrns, all working, most of them young, and earn-
ing between $20 and $30 a week.

Obviously the more subtle values are obscured,
but the rough outlines of working days and week-
ends are revealed. And is it not legitimate to read
even between these lines? We note in one diary

By JANET FOWLER NELSON

Dr. Nelson’s study of the practices
and desires of young business
women was conducted under the
auspices of the Laboratory Divi-

sion, National Board of the Y.W.
C.A'. Her findings are based on the

analysis of over 3,000 diary rec-
ords submitted in the spring of
1932. The printed report of the
study will be issued in the spring
through the Womans Press, 600
Lexington Avenue, New York City.

 

a half hour’s drive to the
movies. May we not pause
to chuckle at the three times
half-an—hour it took to drive home? Especially
when Saturday’s diary beginning at twelve mid-
night and therefore a continuation of this Friday’s
record devotes an entire hour to “Boy friend said
goodnight !”

But turning our attention
for a moment to the group
as a whole—our initial con-
cern conceivably lies in the
actual time reserved for lei—
sure. From an analysis of
the diary records we note
that there are approximate-
ly four and a quarter hours
of leisure on a work day;
between six and a half to
seven hours on Saturday,
and with Sunday uncom-
plicated by either time Spent
on the job, or time spent in
transpOrtation to and from the job, available lei-
sure increases to over ten hours.

What Do They Actually Do?

But our major interest, of course, is concerned
with what these girls and young women actually
do in their leisure time. They may say, as they
actually do when presented with a check list, that
reading, traveling, automobiling, going to the
theater, listening to the radio, seeking more edu-
cation, sports, music, dates and dancing are their
major interests. Whereas, practically their entire
leisure time is actually absorbed in, at best, a very
few of these. When we report on the basis of our
analysis of their workday diaries, major activity
in visiting and entertaining—that is, casual, in-
formal social experience—in reading, radio and
automobile riding, plus a certain amount of un—
planned eisure, we have about covered the field.
Moreov , in a total list of all reported leisure
time acti ities, the only so—called commercial rec-

 
  

reation tat appears at all importantly is,

“movies.” Saturday and Sunday records only
serve to st ngthen these tendencies, although

551

552 THE LEISURE HOURS OF YOUNG BUSINESS WOMEN

they also inject into the leisure time picture activi—
ties characteristic of the days themselves—such as
shopping and dancing on Saturday and church
on Sunday.

One other important activity, of course, cross-
cuts all of these, i.e., “dates” for they may include
any or all of these. \Ve find about 16 per cent re-
porting dates on a work day, 30 per cent and 35
per cent on Saturday and Sunday. Moreover,
well over half the group reported at least one date
in the course of their three day diary. These
figures are lent increased significance when con-
sidered in relation to the response to the question,
“What do you hope to be doing when you are
35 ?”-—where almost 70 per cent indicated the ex-
pectation of, or at least desire for marriage. Both
from the standpoint of indicating the value of in-
creased facility for mixed recreation, as well as
considered from the standpoint of specific pro-
gram content, these results demand thoughtful
consideration.

To return, however, to a consideration of the
most frequently reported leisure time activities,
one important conclusion emerges. Is it not sig-
nificant that of the most frequently reported ac-
tivities, three are media, really channels, through
which other interests are tapped? I refer to read-
ing, radio, and movies. This emphasis alone is in—
teresting, to be sure, but are we not more inter—
ested in what they read, what they see at the mov-
ies, or what they listen to on the radio? Do we
not have more implications for constructive social
concern in the control of these? In fact, is this
not a direct challenge to the community? Are we
not in desperate need of increased consciousness
and awareness of the importance of these media:
of recognition of social responsibility for these
tools of leisure? Moreover, there is a direct hint
to organizations concerned with program building
to use these very tools in the stimulation and de-
velopment of other specific interests, not from the
standpoint of superimposing something on some
one which she doesn’t want, but from the stand-
point of providing for enrichment of content, of
providing for natural selection and growth and
expansion.

What of the Extra Time?

Another most illuminating result of our study
emerges from a comparison of business girls who
already had gone on the five—day week, with a
group which were still working the conventional
half day on Saturday. What happens to the extra

time—these four hours formerly spent on the job,
plus almost another hour spent in transportation
to and from the job? In the first place, only half
of it appears as leisure. The rest is absorbed by
other necessary activities. Indeed, we find a gen—
eral slowing down process, a shift in tempo from
our busy, hectic days, for we find that extra sleep
in the morning, more leisurely eating, more time
spent in personal care, and also more time spent in
what we call home responsibilities. And as for the
actual leisure—although the same general em—
phasis obtains in both groups on reading, radio
and automobiling, we find the following signifi—
cant diiferences between them: In the non-work-
ing Saturday group there is even more entertain-
ing and visiting, more automobiling. But we also
begin to get increased emphasis on walking and
hiking, more swimming and all day trips to the
seashore, as well as a small but perceptible in—
crease in golf and tennis, although neither group
reflected these latter two, to any great extent. We
also find significantly less going to the movies.
Whereas of the girls who work Saturday morn—
ing, almost a quarter of them also went to the
movies that same day, scarcely ten per cent of the
non-working Saturday group reported this in
their diary.

Are not these results peculiarly important in so
far as they reflect a natural inclination in the use
of extra leisure? Time is ceasing to be a limita—
tion. Must we not accept responsibility for pro-
viding physical facility as well as providing skills?
Surely this emphasis on the more constructive,
active, less passive activities is wholesome and
should be preserved and enhanced.

“\Vhether it be the four—day or the five—day
week: the six—hour or seven-hour day, the result
will be that the great majority of the American
people will have more leisure. It will be a leisure
founded upon a greater sense of security and a
sounded confidence in the future for both them-
selves and their children.

“How will this leis11re be spent? What use
will we as a people make of those extra hours,
the employment of which is left to our own
tastes and devising? . . . There is no need to
waste this new leisure. All we need to do is to
take advantage of our opportunities and reap
benefits unbounded.”——Ar.thur N. Pack, Ameri—
can Nature Association, Washington, D. C.

More Leisure Time Studies

importance attached to the use of leisure in

the new economic order have led many groups
to make studies in this field. Brief information
about a few of these follows:

T HE INCREASE in leisure time and the growing

A Study by a Department Store

The following facts were gathered in a study
carried on for Gimbel Brothers, Inc., by  David
Hauser and associates. This study involved inter—
views with approximately 40,000 women in New
York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Milwaukee.
A fair cross—section of the communities was cov-
ered, neither extremely poor nor extremely
wealthy being represented.

One section related to the ways in which leisure
time resulting from the National Recovery Ad-
ministration is being used. A summary of the re-
plies indicates the following distribution of this
added time. Thirty—one percent of the people in-
terviewed reported that somebody in the family
had more leisure time as a result of the NRA.
The following table is based upon the comments

of this 31%:

Housework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12

Resting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12

At home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..10

Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8

Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6

Shopping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4

Theaters, shows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Exercise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Other—miscellaneous pursuits . . . . . ..12

Doing nothing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6

Did not state . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8
100

When the persons reporting more leisure on
account of the NRA were classified according to
economic status it was found that those with a
low average showed that 36% of the families were
affected. For those of average status it was 31%,
whereas only 20% of the families with a high
economic average reported more leisure resulting
from the NRA.

An analysis of the replies to the question relat-
ing to leisure indicates the relative extent to which
it was reported in the four cities studied and also
the ways in which the extra time was spent in
each of the four cities. Following is a tabulation
of the replies to the question: “Do any of your

family who are working have more leisure time
on account of the NRA?”

Women Interviewed In
N ew York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Milwaukee

Yes . . . . . . . 26% 33% 26% 39%
No  74 67 74 61
100 100 100 100

How they spend
the extra time*

Resting .....19% 9% 11% 8%
Housework ..12 l4 17 21
At home ....10 11 12 8
Recreation  9 6 7 9
Reading  9 12 10 17
Study . . . . . .. 6 6 4 6
Theaters,

shows . . . . .. 5 5 1 2
Exercise  4 3 2 4

* Percents are of the number who have more leisure time.
Some of the womenodId not state what was belng
done Wlth the extra time.

New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Milwaukee

Shopping .. . . 3 4 5 3
Other things .15 16 6 11
Doing nothing 6 7 8 4

New Yorkers would appear to be “resting”
more than twice as much as inhabitants of Mil-
waukee as a result of the NRA. Nearly twice as
many people in Milwaukee appear to be “reading”
as is true in New York.

The “Forum” Reports Its Interests

The Personnel Department of the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company conducted a
brief study among 60 employees, most of them in
engineering positions and all members of a dis—
cussion group called “The Forum,” as to what
they were doing with their added leisure. Most
of these persons are now working four and a half
to five days as compared with five and a half days
two years ago. Much of this additional time has
been absorbed in home maintenance and in im—
provement although some is used for outdoor rec-
reation. Additional activities listed in the order
named were: talking with the family, reading,
playing with children, athletics, educational
courses, cards, indoor games. Arts and crafts ap—
preciation, civic and political activities appeared
near the bottom of the list.

The average hours per week reported spent in
various activities were: reading, 10 hours; arts
and crafts, including gardening, 6 hours; ath-
letics, 4% hours; cards, 4 hours: education ac—
tivities, including the Forum meetings, 5 hours.

553

554 MORE LEISURE TIME STUDIES

Vacations were largely spent in travel, swim-
ming being one of the chief activities mentioned.
Activities involving advancement in their voca-
tions play a very small part in the leisure time of
this group. The chief obstacles mentioned were:
(1) lack of time; (2) cost; (3) cost of travel in
vacation periods. The opinion was expressed that
the use of leisure of this particular group does
not present a very serious problem.

The Leisure Time Activities of 400 Persons

This study was conducted by Miss Marion Flad
as a part of her work in the graduate course in
occupational attitudes and values at the University
of Southern California. The study covered avo-
cations, vocations, leisure time activities partici-
pated in, both indoor and outdoor, the average
time per week given to activities, the number of
hours those replying had been interested in each
activity, the attitudes toward activities and atti-
tudes against them. Miss Flad has based the fol—
lowing conclusions on outstanding facts of the
study:

1. There is com-
mon report that no

Our children must be educated for the use of
the leisure which will be theirs abundantly.

real thought had been given to the use of leisure
time.

2. A limitless variety of activities more or less
unorganized are cited.

3. Many leisure time activities, consciously or
unconsciously chosen, balance vocations.

4. A surprisingly large number of activities
that have been pursued over a long term of many
years are listed.

5. A large percentage of physical exercise pas-
time activities and hobbies are given; a small per-
centage of avocations.

6. The need for greater emphasis on avoca-
tions, more avocational planning and more avo-
cational guidance is evident.

7. A large number of personal enjoyment ac-
tivities as opposed to group welfare ones are re-
vealed. This may throw light on why interest in
public affairs is.low.

8. The need for publicly promoted avocations
and public supervision is clear.

“It is an extremely narrow range of activities to
which the average person turns in his spare

hours,” was the con-
clusion of the St.

Louis, Missouri,
(Continued on page 579)

 

I r

Courtesy Highway Beautification Council, Springfield, Massachusetts.

 

Camp Fire Girls Have An Answer

HILE those of us
W who already have
m o r e leisure
time, and those of us who
see it in the offing, are
wondering what we shall
do with it, Camp Fire
Girls are working out
their own solution. Their
answer to the spare time
problem is hobbies. They
have chosen hobbies as
their national project for
1934, and girls everywhere
are working on their in-
dividual special interests.
There are a good many
things girls between ten
and twenty can do, espe-

“There is no

cially if they have already been introduced to the
Camp Fire Seven Crafts—Home Crafts, Hand
Craft, Health Craft, Camping, Nature Craft,

Business, and Citizenship.

In order to get a girl well started on her hobby,
the national organization has outlined a plan
whereby the girl may earn a national award for
her beginning work on her chosen project. Some
of 'the requirements in this plan are:

Plan and carry out a dinner, having the place
cards, decorations, toasts, entertainment and pos-
sibly the dinner itself based on the hobbies 0f the
girls in the group. (Group requirement)

Organize a hobby fair or exhibit to show the

hobbies of the girls in the group. (Group re-
quirement)

Make a plan for carrying out your hobby.

Give a hobby party for relatives or friends, or
make a book of hobbies containing a list of friends
and their hobbies. Make some contribution to each
friend’s hobby.

Some of the things which are appealing to
Camp Fire Girls as they work on this project are:

Photography —- making your own pin-hole
camera, specializing in nature photographs, mak-

ing a collection of pictures of children, pets, his-
toric houses. ‘ '

question but what every
girl should begin as young as possi-
ble to build up a variety of hobbies,
hobbies which can fill quiet hours or
which can take her out into the open
air, even hobbies which can, if neces-
sary, supplement her regular work
income and Still provide her with an
outlet which will express her own

desire to create something with her
hands. To some of us it is cooking,

or knitting, or pottery
That we should develop evcry possi-
ble avenue no one who is familiar
with the lives of busy, happy pe0ple
can deny.”——Mrs. Franklin D. Roose-
velt in a letter to Camp Fire Girls re-
garding the hobbies project.

 

Story-Telling —— mak-
ing collections of chil-
dren’s stories to tell to
younger brothers and sis—
ters, or to tell at camp, at
parties.

Camping — making
your own cooking utensils
to cook out - of - doors,
making a map of your
county to show the best
camping spots, organizing
over—night camp trips.

or writing.

Travel — taking a trip
around the world by
means of your collection
of photographs of foreign
countries, collecting pic-
tures of the vehicles used in various countries.

Architecture —— making a scrapbook of early
American houses, or of modern buildings.

Furniture —— making a scrapbook of period

furniture, or making models of early American
furniture.

Cooking —— making an international cook book,
making a scrapbook of your favorite party dishes,

A Camp Fire Girl of Worcester became so
much interested in cooking while she was earning
Home Craft awards that she made up her mind
to choose some branch of that art as her vocation.
Quitejpften hobbies like this do turn into both in-
teresting and profitable occupations. Another
Camp Fire Girl developed skill and interest in art
and verse while she attended a California camp,
and finally made book—making her life work.

In early reports from Camp Fire leaders
throughout the country where girls are working
on this project, many unusual hobbies have come
to light. In Pullman, \Vashington, a team of girls
are learning to handle rifles under the direction of
an instructor at the state university. In Wichita
Falls, Texas, several girls who are interested in
horses are teaching other girls to ride, tracing the
breeds of the horses‘at the local academy, and in-

( Continued on page 580)
‘555

The Place of Leisure Time

in the
Modern Social Order

HE SUBJECT, “Why Business or Industry is

Interested in Leisure Time Activities,” was

introduced by General Rees with a number of
questions such as: “What have we. to do with
other people’s leisure anyway?” “Why should in-
dustry bother about its employees, eSpecially their
leisure time?” Reference was made to the many
educational courses conducted outside of working
hours by the various industries. Examples of in-
terest in educational and recreational opportuni-
ties provided by telephone companies were also
cited. One example was in the case of a company
in Southern California which reported on the
tremendous use of the company library during
the past two or three years by all’kinds of em-
ployees. Reference was also made to the sewing
classes, to classes in English diction, archaeology,
nature study and others, all of which have been
extremely popular and which were reported to
have had a very favorable and considerable effect
on the morale of workers.

Alternate answers were given to the question,
“Why is industry interested in employees’ leisure
and its use?” One of them emphasized the fact
that by encouraging the wise use of leisure peo-
ple are made better and more efficient employees.
On the other hand, industry considers provision
for its workers’ leisure as a cooperative effort in
helping attain the highest capabilities of each in-
dividual.

Although people do not wish others to do their
leisure time planning for them, nevertheless it is
important that industry should face the problems
involved in the use of leisure time and should
help to work out a program based on the best in-
formation and wisdom available, this program to
be for workers without any force or obligation.
A great contribution will be rendered if such a
program is worked out in an effort to make avail—
able to people the leisure time opportunities which
they desire.

556

The greater leisure which our

changing social order is creating
is the subject of discussion at
meetings of groups of many kinds.
We present in this issue a sum-
mary of a meeting held under the
auspices of the American Women’s
Association, New York City, at

which formal addresses were given
by General Robert I. Rees of the
American Telephone and Tele-
graph Company, and by Dr.
Frederick P. Keppel of the Car-
negie Corporation. In addition
there were brief discussions of
various phases of the problem.

 

The Place of Avocations

In discussing, “The Place of Avocations in the
\Vell Balanced Life,” Dr. Keppel illustrated the
difficulty in differentiating between vocational and
avocational training. It has been said that it is im-
possible to tell the difference between the two
until you are dead, and then it is too late. In-
stances were cited where individuals through
their avocations have made outstanding contribu-
tions to civilization. Dr. Keppel feels that pos-
sibly there is too much talk about leisure time and
not enough emphasis upon the balanced life. One
difficulty is that we slipped out of the pioneer
stage without realizing it. Pioneer life itself pro-
vided the basis for a well-rounded life, but today
it is necessary for most of us to seek it outside
the job. One difference between the older system
of life in England as compared with ours is the
fact that in the English W 110’: Who persons’ hob-
bies are invariably mentioned, whereas this infor-
mation is not considered important in the Ameri-
can Who’s Who.

There never was a good thing more poorly
named than adult education. The term “educa-
tion” itself has so many unpleasant associations,
whereas people do not like to be reminded of the
fact that they are adults, especially when the pur—
pose of the movement is to help recapture the
spirit of childhood or play which we have been

educated out of.- All the adult education move-M ‘

ment can do is to see that a balanced ration of op?
portunity is offered in each community, from

which the individual does the selecting. There is h

i;

 

THE PLACE OF LEISURE TIME IN THE MODERN SOCIAL ORDER 557

no occasion for high-powered salesmanship or
pressure, although to a certain extent, people can
be led and the conception of guidance is growing
in many fields. It is easy to underestimate peo-
ple’s standards. He mentioned how it took radio
concerns several years to decide that the best in
music is none too good.

There is need for variety in the program in
order to provide for each person some form of
compensation for his daily task. You cannot be
too logical in minding someone else’s business.
Opportunity for choice must be provided. After
all, the real adult education job is for each in-
dividual to solve the problem for himself or for
herself. It is a move from the realm of work or
compulsion to that of freedom. Not only recrea-
tional activities must be considered, but for some
people religious or civic activities round out their
life and afford the compensation from work al-
though for most people these activities are merely
added to the load. Happy people are the ones
who have achieved the balance. They are often
the ones who have taken up and continued some-
thing which they missed in childhood whether it
be music, arts, crafts or what not. Collecting is a
lazy man’s way of creating. One warning was
offered with reference to the exercise of freedom,
namely, the danger of spreading oneself too thin,
in nibbling at everything. This results in diver—
sion, not in re-creation.

The experience of the Adjustment Service,
New York City, in its attempt to help unemployed
persons find their place in life was briefly dis-
cussed by E. Dana Caulkins and Jerome H. Bent-
ley of the Service. It had been felt that there
might be some resentment on the part of the in—
dividuals interviewed at attempts to inquire into
their free time interests and activities. Experience
showed, however, that there was no basis for this
fear. Few of the people interviewed had a basis
for judging how they could use their time to the
best advantage or what activities would appeal
mostly to them. Emphasis was given to the dif-
ferent attitude on the part of people who are un-
employed, as compared with employed men and
women, in the consideration of their leisure. In
the case of the unemployed, the individual is suf-
f ering from shell-shock. Rest and repose are very
important aspects of avocational life and it is im-
possible to secure them in the case of unemployed
persons without danger of deterioration. The best
results have been secured by the Service when

* See page 551. 'I' See page 547.

people are shown that leisure time activity has
some bearing upon their vocation or avocation.

Leisure Time Studies

Brief reports were also given of recent studies
of leisure time interests and activities conducted
by the National Young Women’s Christian Asso-
ciation* and the National Recreation Associa—
tionsf A preliminary report was also given on the
findings of an inquiry carried on by the Ameri-
can Woman’s Association. These findings seem to
indicate that business and professional women do
not need so much to know what to do with their
leisure but how to secure leisure. A surprisingly
low degree of participation in various activities
was recorded. Three hundred interviews or
schedules had been quickly summarized with the
following results :

125 women reported participation in sports and
athletics

77 in reading

71 in arts and crafts appreciation, including at-
tending concerts

37 attending the theater and movies
35 church, social and civic activities

29 arts and crafts . 0
Reports were given on a number of activrty

groups sponsored by the American Woman’s As-
sociation in writing, play discussion, puppetry and
music. Instances were cited where individuals had
benefited greatly by participation in these activi—
ties. The suggestion was offered that in view of
the difiiculty in arranging definite periods when
professional women can attend groups regularly,
a service station idea should be developed which
would make it possible for various activities to be
carried on at different times in order that persons
might have an opportunity to join in the activity
when they had free time to do 50.

Adult Education Interests

The interest in leisure time on the part of the
Adult Education Association was discussed by
Miss Winifred Fisher of the Association’s staff.
She emphasized the fact that we should try and
solve our own individual problems before at-
tempting to plan programs for other people. It
is all wrong that a person who has reached middle
age cannot begin to do things and actively par-
ticipate in various activities. There is need for
pioneering to overcome self—consciousness and
conventionalism for exploring and experimenting.‘
A warning was issued, however, against the curio
type of education which consists primarily of

(C ontiimcd on page 582)

Suggestions for Music Week

and

Other Weeks

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

HERE IS UNDOUBTED value in making National

Music Week an occasion for concerts and

recitals by many groups and individuals of
the community to whom the prospect of taking
part in an observance so generally recognized of-
fers a very welcome incentive for their rehearsals.
Many a group and individual have had the satis-
faction of performing in public during that week
who have had no good opportunity for doing so
at any other time. This aspect of Music Week
should be maintained as long as it continues to be
effective. (An enterprising Music Club which had
brought about annually in a city of moderate size
as many as ninety-nine concerts in the week was
forced to change its tactics because of dwindled
audiences. Even the best concerts by professional
musicians who gave their services were no longer
well attended.) Whatever the conditions, how-
ever, a real, outstanding festival can be of great
musical and social value. One or more of the fol-
lowing plans for such a festival could be used in,
or adapted to, any community in which there is
a person willing and able to work to arouse gen-
eral interest in the prospect and gain cooperation
in carrying it out, without any thought of ad-
vancement for himself. ('He should avoid espe-
cially any newspaper-ballyhoo for himself.) That
person might well be the recreation leader.

Music week is an especially appropriate time
for a festival. That it is in the best part of the
Spring, when among all country pe0p1e, at least,
there have for centuries been joyous celebrations,
is enough to make it appropriate. But any other
time in the year, including the Summer with its
outdoor possibilites, can also be suitable.

558

From inquiries and comments
which_ reach him regarding

Music Week bbservances, Mr.
Zanzig has come to feel that
there are dozens of communities
in which people would likc to

have, during that week, “a fes-

tival that is really festive, a red
letter event that will raise musi-
cal interest and civic spirit to
the year’s ‘high’.” In this articlc
Mr. Zanzig offers suggestions for
making music festivals worth

whilc.

A Festival of Choirs

In many a city two or more church choirs have
now and then combined their forces for some
special performance that has taken them and
their audience to greater heights of inspiration
and enjoyment than they ordinarily reach as
separate choirs. Some festive events of this kind,
as in Waterbury, Connecticut, and in Boston, have
brought together as many as thirty choirs, Cath-
olic, Jewish and Protestant, in a great community
expression. When so many people give them—
selves generously to such a community enter-
prise without compensation and without regard to
creed, social standing, politics, nationality or any
other classification, an atmosphere is created in
the community that is of great value. But a
smaller number of choirs, even if they represent
only one sect or faith, can also gain and give
much through combining for a festival. The new
insight and enthusiasm that a very good leader,
chosen by the choirmasters and brought, perhaps,
from outside the city, can give to them and the
singers is an especially valuable possibility.

If the aim is to have only a few choirs combine,
the project can be introduced through an inter-
view with each choirmaster, who in turn will con-
sult his pastor, and it can be planned in detail
through two or three easily arranged conferences
of all the choirmasters whose choirs are to take
part in it. But if the aim is to have a community
festival, more attention must be given to organiz-
ing for it.

One way in which this larger project can be
worked out is as follows: Let the idea be pre-
sented to each of a few knowing ministers and

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR MUSIC WEEK 559

choirmasters to find out what they think of it. If
they think it good and feasible, arrange to bring
about a meeting of choirmasters from all the
churches to consider the possibility. The call for
this meeting might be made through the City Min-
isters’ Association, the Organists’ or Choirmas—
ters’ Guild, a Civic Music Committee, a Music
Week Committee, the Recreation Commission or
by one or more of the most respected choirmas—
ters themselves.

Before the time of the meeting effort should be
made to find out what person in the community is
regarded by a number of outstanding people, in-
cluding some choirmasters, as having the stand—
ing, civic-mindedness and ardor for such an en-
terprise as a choir festival, and time and ability
to push it forward, so that he would make a good
executive for it. He may well be a layman. Try
to have him act as temporary chairman at the
meeting, and get one of the choirmasters who ap-
proved of him to agree to “move” for his election
as permanent chairman. At the meeting the idea
of the festival is presented. If it is generally ap-
proved, a raising of hands showing how many
think that their own choirs would enter the fes—
tival, the question as to how it could be worked
out arises, and modes of organization and action
for it are suggested and briefly discussed. The
first detail may be the election of a permanent
chairman and a secretary. (If there is danger of
dissension or unwise choice in an immediate elec—
tion of a chairman, this detail could be delayed
until after the organization is well under way. In
any event, an impersonal discussion beforehand
of the qualifications that are desirable in the chair-
man will help toward a wise choice.)

The question of probable costs of the festival
will arise early, and it would be very helpful if
someone at th e meeting
were prepared to estimate
the costs of using an audi—
torium for the concert, of
using it or some other
building or buildings for
rehearsals of the combined
choirs, of newspaper pub-
licity and of printing pos—
ters, programs and tickets.
It may be that because the
enterprise is a civic one all
these things except the
printing could be obtained
at very little or no cost

Journal.

“Music is recognized as an integral part
of life, rather than merely an isolated
experience. And it is not merely an
ornamental fringe upon the edge of
life’s garment but a vital part of life
itself. Beauty permeates the universe.
It is the leaven that causes life to con-
tinue to be a pulsating, throbbing, ab-
sorbing thing, not merely a garnish that
can be added or left off a capriccio. A
universe without beauty would be a
dull, dreary, hopeless universe. It is
music and the other arts that make life
interesting and bearable.”——Karl W.
Gehrkens, in the Music Supervisors

through the interest of those in charge of school
or other public buildings, of church buildings,
and of newspapers. The music should all be of
the best, but should as far as possible be also such
as is either already owned by many of the choirs
or, being usable in church services, might be paid
for out of the choir budget or by the singers
themselves—perhaps through a registration fee.
The remuneration of the leader, while it should
be as generous as can justly be borne, may be
small if necessarily so. In every section of the
country there are now one or more excellent
choral leaders whose fervor for the work is
greater than their wish for remuneration. A local
leader would probably be willing to give his serv-
ices. Accompanists should also be paid ade-
quately, but they, too, may be very generous in
such an enterprise. If an orchestra is to play the
accompaniments, the cost of music for it, possibly
including the Special arranging of some of the
music, must be considered as well as the possi-
bility of having to pay some or all of the players.
Here again the amateur spirit joined by civic in-
terest may reduce or obviate expense for services.

A moderate charge may be made for admission
or a collection taken as in church. One or more
blocks of seats or the boxes might be reserved for
those who care to pay more, though one price
throughout the hall will be better. And an effort
might be made to interest certain persons and
clubs in buying tickets that are to be given away
to worthy persons unable to pay for them. Mer-
chants, especially those dealing with music, may be
willing to advertise in the program, but it would
be better if this means of obtaining aid could be
dispensed with. A sponsoring association should
be found or formed to guarantee payment of any
deficit up to a certain amount. A music club, the
Chamber of Commerce, a
service club, or a few such
groups together might un—
dertake the obligation, or a
Choral Festival Associa-
tion be formed of individ—
ual guarantors and sub—
scribers.

Finances having b e en
briefly discussed, they are
regarded as not necessarily
an obstacle, for a not too
pretentious festival could
be given by devoted groups
without loss even though

560 SUGGESTIONS FOR MUSIC WEEK

no charge for admis-
sion were made. Fur-
ther discussion of the
festival reveals the
following task: (1)
gaining the coopera-
tion of the Ministers’
Association; (2) reg-
istration of choirs or
of individuals; (3)
choice of conductor
and associate con—
ductor; (4) choice of
music; (5) making a
schedule of rehearsal
times and places and

arranging for the recording of attendance at
them; (6) choice of an auditorium for the con—
cert and arrangement for ushers. decorations,
etc.; (7) finances; (8) publicity.

A small committee is appointed at once for each
of tasks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, the chairman deciding
to delay appointing committees for the other three
tasks until after considering whether any inter-
ested laymen might be better able to serve on
these than the choirmasters. Suggestions are in-
vited from the “floor” for each committee’s work
and for the chairman’s choice of additional com-
mittees. At a second meeting within a week or so
the first five committees should be ready to re-
port, and their suggestions should be freely dis-
cussed and voted upon. A date should be de—
termined for a meeting with the conductor and his
associate ‘at which the music and other details of
the program could be gone over, interpretations
indicated, and a schedule of rehearsals could be
completed. If the chief conductor is from outside
the city, he might be regarded as “guest con-
ductor.” The associate conductor should be a
member of the community. The civic orchestra
might play the accompaniments and one or more
instrumental compositions. (The festival might
be the motive for starting a civic orchestra if
there is none already organized.)

The congregations of the church should be
especially invited to the festival, and with the
rest of the audience be given opportunity for
great congregational singing in one or more fine
well-known hymns or chorales with the orchestra
or organ and with or without the choirs. The
hymns or chorales should be chosen long in ad-
vance, so that the congregations could be given
opportunity to become entirely familiar with them

 

Wandering sport teach-
ers in Germany enliven
their journeys with
music making as they
travel from one com-
munity to another.

through their use in
the regular Church
services now and
t h e n , and through
special “hymn sings”
in which they are
practiced with fuller
insight and apprecia-
tion. Thus the congregations as well as thc choirs
may prepare, with growing interest, for the great
event. This interest might be further enhanced
by having a certain section in the auditorium re-
served for each congregation, a report from the
latter indicating beforehand how many seats
should be in its section. There are rich pos-
sibilities in the use of descants sung by choir
sopranos while the rest of the choir and the entirc
audience sing the familiar hymn tunes. Anti-—
phonal singing between the choirs and the audi-
ence, alternates between accompanied and unaci-
companied singing, and the cumulative effect of
having section after section of the audience and
choir join in the singing are additional resources
for heightening the audiences part in the festival.
In a large city a festival might be developed in
each district instead of in the city as a whole.

A Festival of Secular Mixed Choruses

Much of what has been said of a festival of
choirs can be applied to a combination of mixed
choruses not connected with churches. The festi-
val might enlist choirs as well as secular choruses
as in \Vaterbury, Connecticut, where the latter
groups each sung separately on the program of the
combined choirs, or as in Kalamazoo, Michigan,
where all joined in a single choral body that in—
cluded also many individuals who had not been in
any choral organization. This community chorus
gave a performance of the “Messiah” which was
sponsored and “underwritten” as a community
enterprise by a local newspaper, in each of whose
daily issues during a certain period there ap-
peared registration blanks to bc filled out by
would-be singers who were then assigned by a
personnel committee to one or another organized

SUGGESTIONS FOR MUSIC WEEK 561

chorus for rehearsals. The recent development of
new choruses under the direction of leaders em-
ployed through the CWS or a similar relief
agency calls naturally for cooperation of those
choruses in a festival led by the best leader ob—
tainable.

A Festival of Children’s Choruses

Recently in Philadelphia, seven hundred boys
and girls, all treble voices, from thirty-two recre-
ation centers, settlements and orphanages where
they had been rehearsing in small groups, joined
in remarkably lovely singing of carols in a Christ-
mas festival. There they were, in the fine, big
Irvine Auditorium of the University of Pennsyl-
vania—many of them accustomed in their out-of-
school hours to hard-boiled singing of adult pop-
ular songs—taking purely voluntary and happy
part in fine, simple songs, including the Bach
Chorale, “Good News from Heaven” sung in uni-
son. They and their leaders, twelve of whom were
volunteers who were asked only for two months’
spare time help in preparing the Christmas music,
wanted to continue beyond that period and are
now preparing for a Spring festival in which it
is expected they will be accompanied by a
symphony orchestra. The plan is to have the or-
chestra start with the Overture to the opera
“Hansel and Gretel,” followed by the children’s
singing of the two folk songs from the opera, the
(lance song, the Sandman’s song and the Prayer,
all with the rich accompaniment of the orchestra,
and then to have the latter play the Dream Pan-
tomime music during which, in the opera, the
fourteen angels come down from heaven and
dance as angels should around Hansel and Gretel
asleep in a forest.

Anyone who knows this music and knows how
beautifully a group of interested children can be
led to sing, knows also that no other musical ef-
fort, no matter how grand, could be more de-
lightful than this or more enriching to the spirit
of everyone concerned in it. That it is all a prod-
uct of the play time and real desire of the children
makes it especially valuable; for no matter how
much is accomplished in music in the schools,
there is still the need to have the lovely singing
of good songs integrated in the play life of the
children. However, the rehearsals can be more
easily and dependany planned and held in the
schools under direction of the school music teach-
ers, and this way of preparing can have very val-
uable results also.

The volunteer leaders in Philadelphia were
carefully chosen and given five 2—hour sessions of
training in which the paid leaders that some of
the centers have did also take part. For a longer
program by the children than the one described,
more excerpts from “Hansel and Gretel” could be
sung, or a group of folk songs could be added,
such as are to be found in the best school music
books and in special collections like “Ten Folk
Songs and Ballads,” a pamphlet published by the
E. C. Schirmer Music Company of Boston at ten
cents a copy plus postage. An inexpensive publica-
tion of “Hansel and Gretel” containing the music
of only the portions that are within the powers of
children to learn readily—the rest of the opera
being given without its music—is edited by Berta
Elsmith and obtainable from C. C. Birchard &

Company, Boston.

A Festival of Women’s Choruses

Choruses of members of Parent-Teacher As-
sociations, Women’s Clubs and Music Clubs could
enjoy very much getting ready for and taking
part in a festival. The prospect might bring many
a woman into a chorus who would otherwise not
have sought that means of happiness. Perhaps it
is not too sentimental to say that many a boy and
girl in the audience might gain a pride in his or
her mother, so often merely taken for granted in
the home, as new and delightful as the sense of
inner worth and freedom of spirit that she might
gain. The project might be sponsored by the
Parent—Teacher Associations of the city. If there
are not groups of Mothersingers, as a national
movement in those Associations has named them,
a festival might be a very effective motive for
starting them.

The carefully selected and graded “List of Music
for Women’s Voices,” published by the National
Recreation Association at fifteen cents a copy
could help in the making of a program for the
choruses. Each of the latter might sing briefly
alone as well as in the combination of them, but it
is the singing of them all together that is most
important. Almost equally important could it be
to plan to have members of Parent-Teacher As-
sociations, music clubs and other women’s clubs
who are to be in the audience sing two or three
songs in unison with or without the festival
chorus. These songs, carefully chosen, would be
learned at regular meetings of the associations
and clubs. Songs that are well suited to home
singing. like “Morning Comes Early,” “Alleluia!”

562 SUGGESTIONS FOR MUSIC WEEK

and “The Golden Day is Dying” in “Ten Folk
Songs and Ballads,” mentioned above, would be
especially valuable. They can be learned very
readily by rote with nothing more than copies of
the words in the hands of the singers. A song
leader appointed by each club or association would
meet with all the other song leaders and the per-
son who is to lead the general singing at the fes-
tival, and go over the music together. If people
are looking forward not merely to hearing the
concert but also to taking part in it themselves,
and are actively preparing for it, they are likely to
be unusually eager about it. A special section in
the auditorium might be reserved for each club
or association.

A Festival of Children’s and Women’s
Choruses

Such a children’s song festival as has been de-
scribed might take place on the same program as
the women’s festival, with some features involv-
ing them both. The children might sing the
descant of one or more songs, the tunes of which
are to be sung by the women’s chorus, by the
audience, or by both. From Carl Fischer, Inc.
Cooper Square, New York, can be obtained very
lovely descants to “All Through the Night,”

“Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes,” “Golden
Slumbers,” “The Bluebells of Scotland,” and many

other well—known as well as less familiar songs.

The children’s chorus might be of girls only
and there might be an additional chorus of girls
from the high schools or from among those, say,
between the ages of 18 and 25, who have gradu-
ated from the high school choruses or who for
some other reason can be attracted to such an op-
portunity. This would exemplify the continuance
of musical interest in expression from childhood
through adulthood, which is what school music
teachers and all others who recognize the values
thereof are eager to have happen.

A Festival of Men’s Choruses

This festival would be for the men what the
one last described would be for the women. The
service clubs, the Chamber of Commerce and any
other groups of men who could be interested in
attending the concert should be invited to take
part in the general singing by the audience some-
times with and sometimes without the festival
chorus, learning the songs during the usual music
periods of their regular meetings. If there is a
good band available, it might, in addition to play-

ing two or three compositions alone accompany
this general singing. Among songs well suited to
this singing are:

Home on the Range

Shenandoah (An American and English sea chantey)

Away to Rio (An American and English sea chantey)

The Netherlands Thanksgiving Hymn

The Men of Harlech (Using the text about singers in-
stead of soldiers that is in “Twice 55 Community
Songs, Brown Book, published by C. C. Birchard &
Co., and in the Community Songs leaflet issued by
The National Recreation Association at $1.10 per
hundred copies, postpaid)

The Reapers’ Song (A gay one published by The E. C.

Schirmer Music Co.) _ .
Pilgrims’ Chorus from Tannhauser (1n unison)

At least one service club, the Los Angeles
Kiwanis Club, has proved that the Pilgrims’
Chorus can be learned with enjoyment and fine
stirring effect during the regular music period of
the club meetings. There are greater songs than
this within the powers of the men, but this would
be especially impressive to them and the audience,
especially if the entire festival chorus would sing
it with them accompanied by the band.

A chorus of boys or of young men, or a chorus
of each, to share the program with the older men,
would be a very significant as well as enjoyable
feature.

A Two- or Three-Day Festival

Several or all of the festivals thus far described
might together comprise a two- or three-day af-
fair which, if under excellent leadership as to
choice as well as performance of the music, could
approach being as honored a community enter—
prise as are the great festivals in Worcester, Ann
Arbor, Westchester County, N. Y., and a few
other places. This approach could be all the more
welcome and worthy if the last professional con-
cert of a series such as is arranged by so—called
Civic Music Associations and the like, could be
integrated in the community’s own festival, thus
bringing to it an outside great orchestra or solo-
ists or a great leader.

Folk Festivals

Where there are groups of foreign-born peo-
ple there are likely to be folk singers and folk-
dancers who would be glad to prepare to take
part in a folk festival with all its color of native
costumes as well as its music and rhythmic move-
ment. Detailed suggestions for various types of
such festivals are available in the following books:

“Folk Festivals and the Foreign Community” by
Dorothy G. Spicer, published by the Womans Press,
600 Lexington Ave., New York. Price $1.00

(Contimwd on page 582)

Fall
and

Winter
Hiking

The story of a club
that has never been
known to postpone a
hike merely because
it started to rain!

By
VIRGIL SKIPTON

Photo by Elven McClenahan

HE COMING of fall and winter causes many
T to picture for themselves a period of semi—

invalid activities so far as recreation is con-
cerned. This may be due in part to their “bring-
in’ up” or to their environment, or it may mean
simply that they have never been exposed to, or at
least have never caught, the fever of enthusiasm
that motivates an increasing number from year to
year and causes them to don their “red Hannels”
or their equivalent, and to learn the joy of outdoor
activity when the air is crisp and the thermometer
goes to the cellar. To these hardened ones, the
winter affords an opportunity to indulge in forms
of recreation far superior, for them at least, to
anything that summer offers-skating, skiing, ice-
boating, coasting, along with hiking and all kinds
of winter games.

The Outdoor Club of Hastings, Nebraska,
which has hiked every Sunday afternoon for over

 

Last Spring the Hastings {Outdoor Club played

host to the Walking Club of Omaha, Nebraska.

two years, has this slogan: “No hike postponed
on account of weather.” In fact, to listen 1n as
they enthusiastically recount their many varied

experiences, one might easily get the idea that the ,

worse the weather the better the time. This may
not be literally true but certainly it takes more
than weather to dampen the spirits of this hardy
group!

The Hastings Outdoor Club was started in the
summer of 1931. That first fall was a time of
much debating. Fall is of course an ideal time for
outings of all kinds, and during the milder weather
there was no talk of abandoning the hikes until
Spring, but as the days got colder and the frosts
came, followed by ice and snow, the question
arose from time to time as to whether they should
continue during the winter. Always, when a
vote was taken, it was unanimous in favor of

continuing. (Continued on page 583)

563

Budgeting Your Spare Time ,

Don't be a spendthrifl: with your
free time! Use a budget system.

ACH WEEK you spend a certain amount of time
E working, sleeping, eating, dressing and rid-
ing to and from your place of business.
After allowing for all these things, plus a liberal
allowance for time wasted or spent on unavoidable
trifles, the chances are you still have thirty hours
a week left.

You can convert this gift of spare time into one
or more of the following things for yourself :

Mastery of an art or craft

A satisfying hobby

A rich mental life

Sound health and a strong body
Outdoor skills

Expert knowledge of some field
Advancement in your work

A high school education

A college education

There Is Just One “If”

If you want to make your spare time count for
the most in terms of enjoyment, refreshment and
ultimate satisfaction, you must plan.

You must budget your spare time. This means
planning how to use it.

Planning involves three steps:

(1) Figuring out how much spare time you
have each week after sleeping, dressing, eating,
riding and working.

(2) Dividing this spare
time into two parts :

A Daily Schedule

Why not take out your pencil and paper and
figure out your daily schedule and week-end
schedule? In this way you can spot your spare
time. For example, suppose you work forty hours
a week, or eight hours a day, Five days a week.
Then your schedules would look something like
these:

H’cck Days—-
7 :00 to 7 :30 A. M.——Dressing, shaving, etc.
7 :30 to 8 :00 A. M.——Breakfast
8 :00 to 8:30 A. M.—Going to work
8:30 to 12:30 P. M.—Morning work
12 :30 to 1 :30 P. M.—Lunch
l :30 to 5 :30 P. M.—Afternoon work
5 :30 to 6:00 P. M.——Going home
6 to 7 :00 P. M.——Dinner
7 :00 to 10 :30 P. hlr—SPARE TIME
10 :30 to 11 :00 P. M.—Making ready for bed
11 :00 to 7 :00 A. M.——Sleeping

Saturday and Sunday—

7:00 to 7 :30 A. M.——Dressing, shaving. etc.
7:30 to 8:00 A. M.——Breakfast

8 :00 to 1 :00 P. M.——SPARE TIME

1 :00 to 2 :00 P. M.—Lunch or dinner

2 :00 to 6:00 P. M.——SPARE TIME

6:00 to 7 :00 P. M .—Dinner or supper

7 :00 to 10:30 P. M.——SPARE TIME
10 :30 to 7 :00 A. M.——Sleeping

If you have Saturday

and Sunday off more than

(a) The part you will
spend in urziscellaueous ac—
tivities, including tim e
more or less wasted

(b) The part you will
devote to some planned
recreation, hobby or other
play activities

(3) Choosing your rec—
reation, hobby or other
play activities. '

564

The Department of Research and Educa-
tion of the Community Council of St.
Louis is sponsoring a series of popular
radio addresses under the title, “Advan-
tures in the Use of Spare Time.” These
addresses have to do with hobbies, garden-
ing, the services of local leisure-time agen-
cies such as the library and museum, and
similar subjects. In connection with this
series the Community Council is issuing a
number of mimeographed pamphlets on the
use of leisure time. We present here the
pamphlet “Budgeting Your Spare Time.”

half your spare time will
be on those two days. If
you work six days a week,
including Saturday, but
fewer than eight hours a
day, you will have more
spare time on week days
and less on week—ends.
Plan your spare time ac-

tivities accordingly.

BUDGETING YOUR SPARE TIME 565

Recreation, Stimulation, Advancement

Your spare time should bring you one, two or
preferably all three of the following things:

(1) Recreation; (2) Stimulation; (3) Ad-
vancement

Recreation means play, relaxation, refreshment
——something you do just for the moment without
thought of tomorrow.

Stimulation comes from the kind of activity you
pursue systematically and with growing interest
and skill, but without thought of financial reward.

Advancement comes from exploring the possi-
bilities of your vocation or extending the frontiers
of your present knowledge of your industry.

There is time for all three—recreation, stimu-
lation, advancement—if you budget your spare
time. You may get them separately; you may
combine two or all three. For example, such
things as music, tennis, model ship building or
astronomy are both recreation and stimulation
to many people.

There is romance in your job, your business or
your industry. If you know how to find it, you
can add the element of advancement to recreation
and stimulation. From what parts of the world do
the materials used in your industry come? What
problems in economics arise in bringing them to-
gether? How does your job fit into the industry
as a whole and how does your industry fit into the
scheme of world
economics?
\V 11 a t changes
are going on
that affect your
job? How can
you meet them?
The man who is
curious and alert
a b o u t s u c h
things finds his
work twice as
interesting. He
is hard to keep
down.

If you read
Ilin's “ N e w
Russia’s Prim-
er” you will see
how fascinating
the picture of in-
dustry can be.
Start asking for

books on your industry at the library. The fact
that it is your industry will make the terminology
easy. The references in one book will lead to others
and whole new vistas will open before you.

Physical Versus Mental Activities

The question arises: Should one read books or
play tennis? Should he practice on a violin or on
a punching bag?

A good rule is to spend at least part of your
spare time using those parts of mind and body

which tend to grow stale on the job at which you
earn your daily bread.

Dr. Paul Zentay, Assistant City Health Com-
missioner, whose suggestions figured heavily in

the preparation of this booklet, suggests the fol-
lowing:

For Manual Workers. Three-fourths of the
budgeted time in reading or study in some field in
which you are interested. One-fourth in some
form of athletics or outdoor life which brings dif-
ferent muscles into play than those used at work.

For O§ice Workers. Give some time regularly
to athletics and outdoor activities, including get—
ting in touch with nature. The rest of the bud—
geted time may be devoted to either physical or

In budgeting your free time be sure to set
aside a portion of it for seasonal sports.

 

566 BUDGETING YOUR SPARE TIME

mental exer-
ci s e, depend-
ing on inter-
ests and need
for relaxation.
This is a mat-
ter for you to
decide.

B u d g eting
spare time is

What Budgeting Means

“Budgeting your spare time
means planning how to use
it. Today planning is a part
of any big endeavor that is
successfully carried out. Your
life’s happiness is your big-
gest endeavor. Planning can
make life mean more to you.”

an idea for the whole family.

It is a good plan if members of the family can
share some of their spare time activities together.
There is nothing like doing interesting things to—
gether for strengthening the bonds of family af-
fection. In Europe families take their recreation
together much more than in America, and family
solidarity is stronger there.

The old custom of reading aloud in family
circle is one that deserves to be revived. Going out
together on a picnic, a nature study trip or a visit
to the 200 is another idea. Hobbies such as air-
plane model building can be shared by father and
son, rug making by mother and daughter.

Be sure your children acquire leisure-time in-
terests. They are growing up in a world in which
they will have still more spare time than you have
today. They should learn how to use it now.

Women are in on the spare time proposition,
too. People used to say that “man’s work is from
sun to sun but woman’s work is never done.” That
was in the days of the spinning wheel. It is no
longer true. Women today can enjoy a regular
amount of spare time the same as men.

Children need not take all a mother’s time. Out-
standing child psychologists, themselves parents,
say the children are better off if they are not tied
to their mother’s apron strings every minute of
the day. With a nursery room or a back yard

playground they can be left alone a good deal of
the time. Read “Child Guidance” by Dr. and Mrs.
Blanton.

How to Find Suitable Interests

It is always better to have a definite plan than
to go about investing one’s leisure in a haphazard
way. An interest consistently pursued grows on
one. You may have only a mild interest at first,
but if you have chosen the right thing, it will be-
come more and more fascinating. One reason is
that you come to know more about it as time goes
on. You can became a real authority in the field
of your choice. No one with a consistent spare

What Budgeting Doesn't Mean

“Budgeting your spare time
doesn’t mean taking the joy
out of life so that you never
have a moment to call your
own. Rather, it means put-
ting joy in by saving yourself
from boredom.”

t i 1n e interest
ever needs be
bored. There is
too much to
find out about
for that.

The m a i n
thing is not to
procrastinate
but to start in.
Set aside regularly a certain time for your chosen
activity until it becomes a habit. The main prin—
ciple in habit forming is to make no exceptions at
first. Later on you won’t want to make any.

A Word to the Unemployed

A period of unemployment can especially be
made an Opportunity for self-improvement and
enhancement of one’s capacity to get the most out
of life. Many an unemployed man has used his
enforced leisure to learn a new trade or acquire a
new ability that helped put him back on his feet.

The suggestions about knowing your industry
better apply to the unemployed man or woman
too. Find out more about the industry in which
you last worked or in which you expect to work
in the future. Broaden your vocational equip-
ment. Learn about the side lines to your old job.
Read up on what the fellow next above you did
and the fellow in the next department. The more
niches you can fit into the better your chances.

Size up the future of your vocation. Are there
likely to be more chances or fewer? What new
things do you need to learn about to keep in step
with the times? Do you keep in touch with busi—
ness conditions, particularly in your industry so ‘
that you can anticipate Opportunities? Do you
know when new plants are opening up or moving
into St. Louis? Read St. Louis Business (Indus-
trial Club) and Monthly Review (Federal Re-
serve Bank, Eighth District) and keep abreast of
developments. You can consult the former in the
Applied Science Room_ and the latter in the
Reference Room of the Public Library.

Do you know how to act when you interview a
prospective employer? Do you know how to pre-
sent your own qualifications modestly but convinc-
ingly? Can you write a good letter of application?
A good letter has often landed a man a job.

Read these or similar books:

Graham: “How to Get a Job During a De-
pression”

Vernon: “Modern Business Letters”

 

BUDGETING YOUR SPARE TIME 567

Kitson: “I Find My Vocation”

The unemployed person, of course, should not
forget play any more than his employed neighbor.
Even if spare time activity does no more than
keep him from brooding on his troubles, it is well
worth while. Our President has assured the na-
tion that no one is going to starve. The man who
is doing all he can for himself and his family
should quit worrying unduly. The best way to
keep from worrying is to keep one’s mind oc-
cupied with something else.

Ten Concrete Suggestions

(1) Write to the Community Council for its
free booklet entitled “The Hobby Horse,” in
which dozens of hobbies and recreations are listed.
Listen to the Council broadcasts on “Adventures

in the Use of Spare Time” every Tuesday morn—
ing at 10:15 over Station KWK.

(2) Go to the Public Library and inquire about
books on hobbies, on collecting things, on your in—
(lustry or job or on some subject or craft in which
you are interested.

(3) If you enjoy doing things with your hands,
consider the possibilities of carpentry, modeling,
model making, metal work, carving, glass blow-
ing, printing, etc. The Community Council has a
free booklet on ship model building.

(4) Your own back yard can be the site of a
well equipped playground at little or no cost. Send
for the free Community Conncil booklet on this
subject. Participate in some sport yourself in-
stead of just watching others.

(5) Gardening is the delight of thousands.
Even a window box or a tank of_ underwater
plants can afford great pleasure. The Community
Council will be glad to send you a copy of a Mis—
souri College of Agriculture bulletin on home
gardening.

(6) Pets are not confined to dogs and cats.
Birds, turtles, fish, even monkeys and alligators,
are interesting companions.

(7) Music and art are not the monopoly of
geniuses. All of us can learn something about
them for our own enjoyment even though we
never go on the concert stage or have our works
exhibited. Or if we don’t perform ourselves, we
can enjoy the work of others.

(8) Expert knowledge of some neld— chem—
istry, astronomy, plant life, economics, a foreign
language—is within the reach of every one with
spare time. Dr. Zentay says: “They used to say

that knowledge is power, but I strongly feel that
knowledge is more a pleasure than anything else.”

(9) Helping make your community a better
place in which to live is one of the most satisfying
activities. Look into the work of different civic
organizations. Learn about municipal affairs.
Take a more active part in the work of your
church and club.

Volunteer your part-time services to a social
agency, a boys’ club or a settlement. Communi—
cate with the Placement Bureau, Community

Council, 613 Locust Street (Garfield 2600).

(10) Finish your high school or college educa—
tion. Ten thousand are attending evening school
in St. Louis now. You can complete an entire high
school education in four to six years at evening
school, or less if you have some credits from day
school. Inquire of or write to the Board of
Education.

“The testimony of a large number of successful
teachers is that subjects may be mastered by the
adult of experience in less time than is necessary
for the regular high school pupil,” says the local
evening school bulletin.

The local universities offer evening, late after—
noon and Saturday classes. You can complete
most of the work for a college degree this way——
all of it in certain departments. In addition, cor—
respondence courses bearing college credit are
offered by the University of Missouri from
Columbia.

“One of the happiest men I know has won and
lost a small fortune. Yet his adversity has never
soured him nor taken the edge off his remark—
able capacity to enjoy little things. ‘Why worry
about vanished money?’ he asks. ‘I have enough
to get along. I have my family, my books, and
my pipe. Good music was never cheaper. A
twist of my radio dial brings me symphonies,
operas or popular ballads. I still enjoy a sunset,
the rising of the moon, and a walk in the rain.
My work brings me less money, but I think I am
rendering better service to people than I ever did
before. I’ve got contentment.’ This man’s quiet
philosophy of life is rather too obvious to need
further comment. Education should lead ulti-
mately in the direction which he has taken. It is
a wise thing to see that in your education you do
not overlook the elements which develop the ca-
pacity to enjoy life.”—James A. M oyer, Massa-
chusetts Department of Education.

The Automobile as a Factor in Recreation

their new leisure?
This is a question civic

leaders and community workers everywhere are
asking. Automobile manufacturers are wonder-
ing how the new leisure will affect them for the
motor car has become one of the most powerful
recreational factors in the nation. “Through it,"
states the report of ex-President Hoover’s Re—
search Committee on Social Trends, “America
has changed to a nation of tourists and mobility
is an almost determining factor in all our outdoor
recreational life.”

There are, for example,
Mr. and Mrs. Billy Smith,
typical of young America.
Billy is back at work and a
five day week is his. At the
close of many a working
day he and his wife and
family will motor to parks,
bathing beaches, golf links
and other recreation resorts
inaccessible in the pre-auto—
mobile era.

The American Automo-
bile Association has estimated that 45,000,000 of
our 120,000,000 population took vacation tOUrs by
motor in 1929, while in 1930, 92 per cent of the
visitors to the national forests and 85 per cent of
the visitors to the national parks used automobiles
as their means of conveyance. In 1933, according
to estimates of the Office of National Parks, 788,—
809 private automobiles entered the twenty-one
national parks.

President Roosevelt’s drive for shorter work
days and work weeks seems certain to exert an
immense influence on pleasure motoring. If a
man works seven or eight hours in a mill instead
of nine or ten, he and his wife may drive to a ball
park so he can join the mill nine in a game during
evenings lengthened by daylight saving. With an
additional holiday each week-end the radius of
short trips from population centers may be ex-
tended many miles beyond the point to which it is
possible to drive every Sunday. With free Sat-
urdays added to the vacation, motorists may range

568

I low ARE PEOPLE going to use

By PAUL M. RYAN

Throngs of pe0ple at recent auto-
mobile shows; greatly increased
production of cars; nation-wide
interest in such events as General

Motors9 Silver Jubilee celebration
—these are a few of the signs
pointing to an ever growing use of
the automobile in the increasing
leisure which America is to have.

 

still further afield. It seems certain
that more leisure, other factors be-
ing equal, will result in more motor
touring. To quote again the Social Trends Com-
mittee: “With the acceptance of the automobile,
the individual citizen in virtually all classes of the
population has acquired a vehicle that gives a free—
dom of control in personal transportation such as
never before existed. Potential mobility is in-
creased immeasurably, and easy, swift movement
over distances formerly traversed but rarely is
achieved. The result has been a transformation of
social habits.”

The Family Goes
Pleasure Touring

The development of fam-
ily pleasure touring, as dis-
tinguished from purposeful
travel, is almost exclusively
a feature of the automobile
era. The first pleasure trips
probably were “stag” par-
ties. In “A Story of the

Stone Age,” H. G. Wells

gives us his vision of man’s
first pleasure ride when he tells how Ugh—lomi, a
hairy warrior of some 50,000 years ago, jumped
from a tree to the back of a young stallion, struck
his horse one blow with his Hint ax and was off
in a burst of plunging speed. Eventually the horse
ran under a low limbed tree and man’s first
pleasure ride ended in dusty humiliation, even as
many of his first motor trips ended with the driver
under his car, monkey wrench in hand and rage
in his heart. But that ride may be classed as a
pleasure trip because it gave the flint worker much
enjoyment and was undertaken with definite, pur-
poseful destination. Both Ugh-lomi and the horse
started as many motorists do, without knowing
where they were going or why.

Perhaps Ugh—lomi, after he had tamed his horse
and recovered from his tumble, allowed his young
wife to sit astride while his pet mare ambled
across Stone Age meadows. Possibly he held his
young son on a still gentler mount while the
animal took a few steps. Family riding excursions,

THE AUTOMOBILE A5 A FACTOR IN RECREATION 569

however, were things of the far future. Even
when carriages and coaches appeared, some 49,000
odd years after Ugh-lomi’s horseback jaunt, it
was generally believed that woman’s place was
the home and that children should be seldom seen
and never heard. Only the rich could afford
pleasure riding. The poor man guarded the Sun-
day rest of his horse more jealously than he stood
up for his own lecture. Young men took their
sweethearts buggy riding, and farmers carried
their families to church and on occasional visits
in hacks. They might drive to the annual Fourth
of July picnic, but it required a great deal of
urging to induce a hard working man to hitch up
and go driving after supper.

The extent to which the automobile has changed
all this must be measured in figures whose magni-
tude reminds the casual reader of some astrono-
mer’s talk of “island universes.” Figures in mil-
lions mean little to any one except financiers and
statisticians. At Jones Beach when the average
person sees cars parked by thousands, row on
row, it does not change the picture much to learn
that around 21,000,000 passenger cars were regis—
tered in the United States in 1932. On a hot Sun—
day why should one pause to reflect that at this
very moment ball players are motoring to thou—
sands of sand lot diamonds, golfers are loading
their sticks into the car, tennis fans are driving to
the courts, and families all the way from Maine
to California, are packing the lunch for automo-
bile picnics?

The Hoover Social Trends Committee estimated
the cost of United States pleasure travel at more
than $6,000,000,000 a year, with autombile tour-
ing by far the largest single item. The American
Automobile Association set the motor touring
figure at $3,200,000,000 for 1930, with 80 per
cent of the money spent for lodging, meals, amuse—
ments, and other pleasures en route.

Making Parks Accessible

Writing in a symposium
on state parks, Beatrice
Ward Nelson says these
recreation areas grew as a
result of the automobile
and the need for open
spaces easily accessible to
the public. Horace M. Al-
bright, formerly director
of the National Park Ser-
vice, describes the state
parks in his 1932 report as

“The automobile has changed the entire
picture of recreation, and recreation is im-
portant in the life of every individual. It
has taken millions out of the crowded
cities and carried them into the great out-
doors. Thousands of hunters and fisher-
men are enabled to enjoy their favorite
form of recreation with little cost. Thou-
sands of families take motoring vacations
each summer, sceing cities and states they
have never seen before. The barriers of
isolation have been

leveled by the automobile.” —— From the
I. M. A. News, November 29, 1933.

provinci alism and

“the near-at-home outing places for nearly 45,-
000,000 persons every year.” There are now
state parks in 45 states. The Hoover Social
Trends Committee points out the greatest de-
velepoment of state parks has been in the eastern
and northern commonwealths with dense popula-
tion, adding that many have been equipped for
campers and are becoming popular for week—end
trips from neighboring cities.

Statistics, however dull in themselves, drive
home strikingly the revolution the automobile
has wrought in national parks travel. In 1908
Mount Rainier National Park first allowed auto-
mobiles to enter its confines. It was the first na-
tional park to admit motor traffic, and it is inter-
esting to note that in the same year New York
City barred automobiles from its streets.

In 1909, 'with only Mount Rainier Park open
to motorists, the whole national park system had
86,089 visitors. By 1933, with all national parks
admitting automobiles, the number of visitors to
national parks and monuments had increased to
3,455,365. The national park director’s report
showed that 788,809 automobiles and motorcycles
entered the parks during the 1933 season. In
other words, automobiles and motorcycles in the
parks in 1933 totaled over nine times the number
of individual visitors who used the park system a
quarter century before.

There are several reasons why the automobile
was needed to transform the national parks and
monuments into 12,592,316 acres of playground.
Most of the parks are located in the West, far
from the great population centers. Cheap, rapid
travel, such as the automobile affords, was neces-
sary to enable people to reach those areas. Good
roads and the low priced automobiles developed
after the World War put motoring within reach
of the average family.

Even in development of municipal and county
parks the automobile has
been a tremendous factor.
The Hoover Social
Trends Committee cites
figures showing that in
1930, 186 cities in 41
states had a total of 381
parks outside their cor-
porate limits. Due to im-
p r o v e d transportation,
county and state parks
now supplement the rec-

(Continued on page 583)

Winter Sports
in the
Black Hills

  

When the trumpeters of

winter snows announce {313‘

Black Hills are white!  "

ORE THAN an half cenutry ago the cry,
“Thar’s gold in them thar hills,” sent men

from far and near up Black Hills gulches
with pick, shovel and gold pan. Soon they built
roads over which to carry supplies to camp.

Today those same gulches, whose walls in
earlier days caught and sent back the creak of
heavy ox-drawn carts and the shouts of bull—
whackers, are reverberating the low swish of skis
and the joyous laughter of men and women whose
only quest is for the physical, mental and spiritual
gold that lies all along the way of the “chief glory
of winter snows—the cross-country ski trip.” Not
a Saturday or Sunday but finds an enthusiastic
group, gaily apparelled in thick wool socks, bright
sweaters and sturdy trousers, cruising Indian
style down an ever alluring white trail.

Its accessibility by railroad makes Trojan,
elevation over 6,500 feet, the favorite starting
point for cruisers. Usually they take the train
up rugged Spearfish Canyon to the dormant min-
ing town, and without the exertion of an uphill
climb are ready for a four or five mile slide down
one of the many gulches leading to points several
thousand feet below, where cars await them.

From the starting point the adventurer gets
wide views, embracing distant Crow Peak and
Bear Butte with Perry Peak and Bald Mountain
seeming almost close enough to touch. On the

drop downward he has the depth, distance and the‘

deep mysterious blues of the rocky gulch. More
intimately he passes thrOUgh matchless vistas of
aspen, birch, snow-covered spruce and majestic

pine.

570

3‘12;-

atii 2’.“

   

By MARGARET S. BRIDGE

\V'inter trees are beautiful in a forest. one
sense even though he may not be articulate. The
eye catches the details of snow prints—of deer,
of elk and porcupine; and if the ear be attuned it
records the drumming of a ruffled grouse, the
chuckle of a chickadee, or the soft sibilant
chir-r-r-r of a flock of Bohemian waxwings.

So much emphasis upon the beauty that one
absorbs on a ski trail in silent winter woods gives
but one side of the picture. There is the exhilara-
tion of the steep slide, the curve successfully
'made, and the spills that send a skier down a
slope to recover a ski that has been disconnected,
or leave him struggling in a deep drift for a solu—
tion of how to regain his footing without the aid
of a wrecker or three or four companions.

It is the localities, not tourist socialites, who
have rolled up the curtain upon the beauties and
joys of these mountain trails. It is as though
people in Spearfish, Deadwood, Lead and other
hill towns of South Dakota had been living in the
hills, yet living without them. But with the cur-
tain up and the stage of the enchanted wilds re-
vealed, it is safe to predictthat the red-blooded,
revitalizing sport of ski-cruising will continue
year in and year out as soon as the trumpeters of
winter snows announce that Black Hills are
white.

“If all of our children—men, women and chil-
dren—could really enjoy life, could appreciate the
great out-of-doors and could get genuine pleas-
ure from all their leisure time, good citizenship
would become far more meaningful than it is
today.”—W. S. Taylor. '

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

"Clothes make the man" is
an old saying well known
to every costume director.

VERY PRODUCING group should accumulate a
E theater wardrobe or costume chest where
used costumes can be stored. By means of
slight alterations, dyeing and painting, many cos-
tumes can be used again and again. A survey of
the community’s attics will usually bring in treas-
ures for the wardrobe.

The experienced actor pays great attention to
his costume because he knows that it tells his
character and makes him different from everyone
else upon the stage. It is his label. In this sense
every play is a costume play. The black frock coat,
stiff white shirt front and flowing windsor tie of
the aristocratic old time gambler give us an in-
sight into his personality, just as the gaudy checks
and loud colors of the cheap race track sport
betray his characteristics. A study of men and
their clothing is a great aid in building a
characterization.

Stage lighting allows the costume artist to use
inexpensive materials in place of expensive Ones.
For example, a purple velvet robe is needed for
the king in the play. Purple velvet is expensive, so
the costume artist hunts for a material that has
somewhat the same general texture and decides
upon canton flannel. Dipping the flannel in purple
dye and placing it on the stage under light, he
finds that it still looks like flannel. But if he will
take the same white flannel and dip it first in a
red dye and then in a blue (red and blue make
purple), then place it on the stage under light, it
takes on the appearance of velvet. The material
must be dipped in two colors of dye, not one, and
it should not be dyed too evenly. In the same way
he finds that he can use cheesecloth, after rinsing

out the stiffening, for silk, and unblea’cLhed muslin
for taffeta.

The magic through which canton
flannel is transformed into kingly
purple velvet; the alchemy which
changes cheesecloth into silk—
these secrets and many others Mr.

Knapp discloses in this month’s
installment of his interesting drama
“serial!” In the next issue he will
describe various methods of make-

up.

 

In using these “economy” silks and velvets on
the stage, however, consistency must be the rule.
As long as all the actors on the scene wear them,
the audience thinks that they are silk and velvet,
but if an actor steps on the stage in real silk or
velvet there is a contrast and the illusion is
destroyed.

Embroidered designs and borders can be painted
on the material with show card paint. The audi-
ence will never know it from the real thing. De—
tails on the stage are lost. The size of the stitches,
the color of the thread, do not matter in the least.
No one will ever see them. Like everything else
in the theatre, costume is magnified. Seek for the
big sweeping effects, but avoid anachronisms.

In making costumes of other countries or past
periods, the costume director first finds pictures
in costume books, the Encyclopedia Britannica,
National Geographic Magazines, histories, geo-
graphies, or from other authentic sources. He then
copies the costume, working for the broad general
effect and paying little attention to the details. He
makes the costume of inexpensive materials which
have the same general texture as the expensive
material in the original costume. He observes very
carefully the seven points which follow:

Characterization. Will this costume tell the
audience who and what the actor is supposed
to be?

Historical Authenticity. Does the costume rep-
resent the correct period of the action in the play?

Styles vary. If the reader doubts it, let him look
at a 1908 dress !

Geographical Correctness. Does the costume
locate the place of action or the nationality of the

( Continued on page 583)
571

At a Settlement

HE IRENE KAUFMANN SETTLEMENT
T of Pittsburgh, of which Sidney A.
Teller is director, reports on a year
of service through which the lives of
many thousands have been affected.
Recreational ‘activities loom large in
the program of the Settlement. The re—
port tells of a total number of 82,850
people who enjoyed swimming. There
were 3,370 classes or sessions, and a
total attendance of about 92,000 in such
activities as games, tournaments, gym-
nastic events, dancing classes, wood-

 

A performance at the popular Children's Theatre

lI
viduals who took part in glee clubs, or-
chestra, toy symphonies, ensemble,
chamber music and classes in rhythm
and theory. At the present time there
are 120 pupils in piano. violin, voice and

orchestra] instruments. Monthly recitals

are planned and the Music School spon-
sors a series of concerts. The school has
grown from an occasional Sunday night
concert to a large, compact organization
within the Settlement institution.

A large number of people came to the

Settlement for the opportunities offered

(Continued on page 585)

 

Young students in a class at the Art School Looking in at the social room for young men

work, crafts, nature study, hobbies and
a great variety of other activities.
Music activities attracted 9,500 indi-

The illustrations shown here were
selected from a series of fifteen etch-
ings depicting neighborhood scenes
and activities of the Irene Kaufmann
Settlement. The etchings, reproduc-
tions of which are available on post-
cards, were made by Samuel Filner,
a Settlement boy who received his
start through the Art School of the
Settlement and who was given a
scholarship enabling him to study at
the Carnegie Institute. He is now
in Paris studying on a Beaux Arts

fellowship.
572

 

New York's Toyery

Why not a circulating
library for playthings
as well as for books?

most interesting experiment is being conducted

in the “Toyery,” a lending library for toys.
The idea originated with Mrs. Ida Cash, a proba—
tion officer of the Brooklyn Children’s Court, who
in visiting the homes of the children in whom she
was interested, noticed the conspicuous lack of
toys. Impressed, too, by the number of children
brought to court charged with the theft of toys,
Mrs. Cash concentrated her attention on a plan
for providing children with toys and making it
possible for them to secure new ones when they
have tired of the old playthings.

IN GREENWICII VILLAGE, New York City, a

Toys of All Kinds

The Toyery in Greenwich Village is the result.
Located at 244 Spring Street in one of the vacant
rooms of the New York University Community
Center, discontinued when the neighborhood be-
came commercial in character, the Toyery was
opened early last July. The toys are contribu-
tions from private sources and from toy manu—
facturers. All kinds of playthings are to be found
here from the most elaborate and expensive trains
and locomotives to the inexpensive toys sold at
five and ten cent stores; from bicycles and roller
skates to bags of marbles-—

By RICHARD B. GRUNEWALD

Recreation Counselor
Council of Lower West Side Social Agencies
New York City

age and address. This identifies him to the libra-
rian. Smaller children must be accompanied by
an adult or an older child already belonging to the

Toyery. '

Perambulating Playthings

When a child first applies he is given a small
toy; on its return in good condition another toy
is issued. The children are cautioned not to
abuse the toys and to use ordinary care in hand-
ling them. Clean hands are required, and with
very few exceptions the children have adhered
closely to this rule. The toys are returned as soon
as the children are tired of them. Parents are
keenly interested and often help by repairing toys
which have come apart. The Toyery is open two
days a week for issuing toys.

Some of the toys contributed are too bulky or
too expensive to be taken into the homes. These
are kept in a room in the Toyery where the chil-
dren play with them under supervision. It is
hoped that later cooperating agencies will main-
tain play rooms in their own buildings.

The Toyery on Spring Street is now well on the
road to become an established institution. Letters
from all over the United States, from England,

Japan and other foreign coun-

thousands of toys for chil—
dren of all ages.

The used toys as they come
to the Toyery are cleansed
and sterilized as are those
which have been in circula-
tion, and soap, cleaning fluids
and disinfectants are used to
good advantage. The toys are
all stamped “Toyery.” The
child wishing to borrow a toy
goes to his teacher and is
given a card stating his name,

The toy library of the Rule Junior
School of‘ Knoxville, which was in-
Spired by the success of New York’s
Toyery, has the distinction of being
the first library of its kind to be
opened in a public school. It is
housed in a little room of its own
adjacent to the book library, and
shelves hold the toys contributed by
individuals and firms. The library was
made possible through the untiring
efforts of two teachers who worked
through the Home Economics-Red
Cross Club, with the cooperation of
the Parent-Teacher Association.

tries, asking for information
on how to establish a Toyery
show how enthusiastically the
idea has been received.

 

NOTE: In the November issue
of RECREATION mention was made
of the lending doll library main-
tained by the Philadelphia Play-
grounds Association, one of the

pioneers in this field. If any of
our readers are familiar with
similar projects in other cities
we shall appreciate having word
about them.

573

 

The Radio As a Medium for Recreation Programs

of expession for recreational music and en-

tertainment—that of the radio. The National
Broadcasting Company, realizing the educational
value as well as the pleasure to be derived from
such programs, has sponsored a half hour each
Friday afternoon over Station KPO of San Fran—
cisco, known as “For Boys and Girls Only.” The
musical half of the program, lasting fifteen min-
utes, is under the direction of Mrs. Marie V. Fos-
ter, Supervisor of Music of the San Francisco
Recreation Commission. She chooses her talent
personally from the children of all the city play-
grounds ranging in age from six to eighteen
years. Aptitude and joy in performance are of
primary importance.

The Senior Girls’ Glee Club, recruited from
among the playground girls of high school age,
consists of approximately fifty members. They
have been singing together for about three years,
and are now capable of singing many difficult clas-
sical numbers with ease and tonal blending. The
Intermediate Girls’ Glee Club of junior high
school age, more recently organized, sings the sim-
pler songs in unison.

A popular group on these radio programs is
composed of young Italian men from the Michael-

574

THIS MODERN AGE has developed a new medium

angelo Playground. The director on the play-
ground is an Italian born young man, Gomo
Morena, who has a splendid musical background.
These boys specialize in Italian folk songs not
often heard in this country. Another p0pu1ar
group is composed of the very small children in
musical chorus work. Their voices seem especially
adapted for radio transmission and ring as clear
as bells over the city. The most gratifying part
of the development of these groups is the num-
ber of comments on the clear, free tones and enun-
ciation and diction.

Mrs. Foster is _very proud of the toy symphony
groups, each group consisting of about thirty
members. This type of broadcasting program was
of an experimental nature but has proved popular.
Accompanied by a piano the tiny tots play bells.
triangles, wood blocks, drums, whistles, tambou»
rines, zylophones and other instruments. Many of
the children are showing a marked development
in rhythm and harmony. Each of the playgrounds
of San Francisco furnishes its quota of musically
trained children for a variety of programs, includ-
ing harmonica bands, harmonica solos, accordion
solos, and duets for both boys and girls.

(Continued on page 58.5)

\X/orld

 

Courtesy Lo: Angela: County Department of Recreation Camps and Playground:

AT a meeting held
in Harrisburg,Penn-
sylvania, to discuss
the needs of youth,
Chief of Police Shoemaker stated that juvenile
delinquency was showing an increase. This he
attributed to the fact that the School Board

Play and Juvenile
Delinquency

because of its reduced budget had been com-'

pelled to order the closing of a number of play
centers which were taking care of boys and
girls after the closing of summer playgrounds.
When this reduction was proposed in the
spring members of the Board of Education
told those presenting the request for reduction
that they were going too far and that the con-
ditions of which Colonel Shoemaker com-
plained would result. The plea was made at
the meeting for the formation of some central
agency through which the recreation needs of
the community might be properly organized
and correlated. “Community centers,” said one
citizen, “are the need of the hour.”

Three days after the meeting at which the
needs of youth were outlined Colonel Shoe-
maker at the first meeting of the welfare cam-
paign announced that the Harrisburg Police
Department, the first group to report, had
made a hundred per cent subscription to the
fund. “Especially helpful in lessening juvenile
delinquency and in crime prevention,” he said,
“are the character building agencies. Their
work must go on unhampered.”

THE wife of a phy-
sician in a Southern
city each year re-
ceives as one of her
gifts from her husband $100 worth of stamps.

This she uses to mail news clippings to people

A Hobby That Is
Different

mentioned in the local press as giving signifi-
cant leadership or being otherwise identified
with civic and community projects in the city
and vicinity. From. this interest she derives a
vast satisfaction and pleasure.

MUSICAL, dra-

matic and other rec-
reational groups de-
veloped at the com-
n1unity centers of Los Angeles, California, will
be heard every Saturday evening in a weekly
radio broadcast presented under the auspices
of the Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment. Presentations will be typical of the cul-
tural activities offered for public participation
at a large number of the city’s playgrounds
and recreation centers.

Los Angeles Children
To Broadcast

ALL because vege-
tables were given as
cash on the Seattle
Y;M.C.A. exchange,
twenty—six high school football players from
Forks, Clallam County, Washington, enjoyed
a visit to Seattle and saw the big football game
between the University of Washington and
the U.C.L.A. The boys had aroused so much
enthusiasm among their townspeople in their
high school athletics program, the Legion
Post 106 decided to send them to the game.
Just how to do it with funds as low as they
were was something of a problem. But the
matter was laid before Austin E. Griffiths, for-
mer court judge and a member of the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation Asso—
ciation, who arranged the barter plan with the
Y.M.C.A. By the terms of this plan, the Y.M.

C.A. agreed to accept eight sacks of potatoes,
575

Paying Board with
Vegetables

576 WORLD AT PLAY

three of carrots, one of rutabages, two of cab—
bages and two of fresh salmon as week—end
board for the party of twenty—six, including
players, coach and trainer. The boys arrive'd
Friday night in their vegetable laden school
bus and enjoyed a thrilling week—end.

At the Westchester Workshop—The West—
chester County, New York, Workshop has in—
cluded among its classes a course in dressmak-
ing taught by an expert. Instruction, which is
free, is available every day in the week except
Saturday from 10:00 A,M. to 5:00 P.M. For
the convenience of employed girls’ classes are
held from 2:00 to 5:00 PM. and again in the
evening from 7:30 to 9 :30. A new class is also
being opened through which specialized in-
struction in furniture making and cabinet
work is available. This course is open every
day. The new year has brought heavy enroll-
ment in all classes in the arts and crafts, ac-
cording to Mrs. Chester G. Marsh. director of
the Workshop.

Music in Cincinnati—There is a great inter—
est in Cincinnati, Ohio, in community singing.
A leader’s club of thirty has been organized
under the auspices of the Public Recreation
Commission, members of which have con—
ducted ninety-four sings in the last six months.
There are nine orchestras, one of them made
up of colored citizens.

A Center for Unemployed in New York City
—The city administration of New York has
opened the 165th Regiment Armory as a day—
time shelter for homeless men. On the day of
its opening early in February, 2,000 men
visited the center and as soon as they had be-
come accustomed to the friendly atmosphere
began to enjoy the games and reading matter
provided.

It is estimated it will cost $3,000 a month to
maintain the center.

Portland’s Irvington Club -— Thirty-three
years ago the Irvington Club of Portland, Ore-
gon, was founded. Twenty lots were bought
in the choicest residential section and an am-
bitious club house was built. A genuine com-
munity club was established, and thousands of
young people as well as adults received benefit
from it. The enlarged community program of
the club recently put into operation empha—

sizes not only the fullest community use of the
club’s facilities, including seven tennis courts,
hand ball courts, gymnasium and auditorium,
club rooms and children’s playgrounds, but the
promoting of a fine expressional program
which stresses garden club, music and drama,
sports leagues and tournaments and special
community-wide events on important days. It
is the purpose of the governing group that the
club house and grounds shall be continually
open without charge to such community or-
ganizations as Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts and
Camp Fire Girls.

A Junior High School Conference — The
Tenth Annual Junior High School Conference
will be held under the auspices of the School
of Education of New York University on Fri—
day evening and Saturday morning, April 13th
and 14th. The general theme of the conference
will be “The Teacher As a Person in the New
Era.” Further information may be secured
from Miss Lillian O’Neill, Secretary, Tenth
Annual Junior High School Conference, New

York University, Washington Square, East,
New York City.

The Playing Fields Association Considers
Play Leadership—On July let the first Con—
ference on Play Leadership was held in Lon-
don under the auspices of the National Playing
Fields Association. The values of leadership,
the training of leaders and their remuneration
were discussed by a large groul) of people who
were deeply interested in the subject. The fol-
lowing resolution was adopted:

“That this Conference being convinced that
until the principle of play leadership has been
generally adopted the open spaces and play-
ing fields of the country can never be of maxi-
mum value to the community, expresses the
opinion that all local authorities should, when—
ever and wherever practicable, make arrange—
ments for the provision of trained play leaders,
assisted, when necessary, by voluntary help-
ers. The Conference therefore asks the Na-
tional Playing Fields Association to approach
all education committees and parks commit-
tees, urging them to start a system of play
leadership in their areas.”

Political 'Clubs on Playgrounds—111 a letter
published in the New York Times, a writer
queries:

WORLD AT PLAY - 577

“Among provisions for more leisure why not
consider political clubs? Our school houses
might shelter them in the evcning for a modest
fee. Their discussions might give some of us
both entertainment and instruction. A club
that passes resolutions has one element of in-
tcrest that a forum lacks.

“Of course, some clubs will be composed of
spoilsmen and some of wild radicals but not
all. If we believe in government by discussion
we ought also to be willing to discuss govern-
ment with our neighbors. . . . As the ancient
Greek citizens gave time to politics because
slaves gave them leisure, so we might give

time to politics because machines give us
leisure.”

Monroe, Louisiana, Secures Department of
Recreation—The passage of an ordinance in
Monroe, Louisiana, has made possible the cre-
ation of a Department of Recreation of five
members. As no appropriation was made when
the work began last spring, the department
created assumed responsibility for securing
the salary of a recreation executive, and Miss
Lucyle Godwin, director of the work, is con—

ducting a program with a wide range of
activities.

Golf for the Working Man—If the plans of
the Public Recreation Commission of Cincin-
nati, Ohio, are carried out the city will pro-
vide free golfing lessons for beginners at the
new municipal \Vaterworks Park course now
under construction and scheduled to be opened
July 1st. The course is being built by relief
labor on a 250 acre tract leased from the city.
The Federal Government is planning to com-
ply with the request of the Cincinnati Public
Recreation Commission and will move the air-

ways weather broadcasting station now on the
waterworks grounds to a new site.

Philadelphia’s New Library — In July the
Philadelphia Playgrounds Association, in cooper-
ation with the public library, the Federation of
Churches and the Shelter for Homeless men, es-
tablished Philadelphia’s open air library on a few
park benches. The stock of the library at its
Opening consisted of several hundred recent
copies of well known magazines, intended for the
use of the unemployed who spent most of their
time on park benches. Books and newspapers, it
was planned, would be added as donated.

At last - SAFETY-

in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

   
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
 

 
   
  
 
    
 
  
     
 
 
    
 
       
       

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. 811-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy.
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber sections are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension

clevises are re-
versible, doubl-

ing the life of

the seat.

  

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach
and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

578

Be Sure to Get Details on
NEW”Free Glide" Shuffleboard

Free-Glide Shuffleboard equipment has in-

creased the already popular appeal of Shuf-
fleboard. Will not warp or break and is

amazingly low in cost. Write today for

complete information. instructions how to
install and extremely low prices.

'The H. G. Cress Co.

Box N R-53 Troy, Ohio

 

Detroit’s Tennis Tournament— Heralded as
the largest tennis tournament ever held in the
United States, ‘the Recreation Department of De-
troit, Michigan, is justifiably proud not only of
the tournament and its success but of the greatly
increased interest in tennis which marked last
summer’s_,pr6gram. First came the city municipal
parks championship with 200 entries, more than
double the number in former years. Then some-
one suggested a novice tournament open to any
player who had never won a title in a senior
major single tournament. This created much in—
terest and recreation officials in eight neighboring
cities cooperated in the preliminary tournaments.
There were 1,102 entries with preliminary tour-
naments played on the same day at seventeen cen-
ters. Finals were played on twelve public courts
at Waterworks Park, fifty-one men and thirty—
two women competing in‘ the finals. The Detroit
N ems through its support did much to make the
tournament a success.

Deleveloping Character in Your Child—
C h‘ild Welfare, the National Parent-Teacher maga-
zine, from September, 1933 through April, 1934
will publish a series of eight articles forming the
basis of a parent education study course. The
articles are as follows: “What About Work?”
(September); “What About Play?” (October);
“Heroes and Hero Worship” (November) ;“Love
and Friendship” (December) ; “The Child’s
Room” (January) ; “The Child’s School” (Febru-
ary) ; “The Child’s Community” (March) ; “The
Child’s Religion” (April). Single copies of Child
Welfare may be secured from the Child Welfare
Magazine, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C., at 10 cents a copy.

Volunteer Leadership in Dalton—The three
playgrounds conducted by Dalton, Massachusetts,
Community Recreation Association were operated
last summer by volunteers, twenty-three of whom
gave their services for two weeks or more. The
opening of the playgrounds was preceded by an
institute for volunteers. Although the appro-

WORLD AT PLAY

priation was cut from $2,500 to $1,500, more
improvements were made than during any past
six summers through labor performed by men
paid by the Welfare Board who served as care-
takers and laborers.

Cincinnati’s Pageant—Eight hundred children
of Cincinnati, Ohio, took part in the pageant pre~
sented by the Public Recreation Commission on
the zoo opera 'stage. “The Old Woman Who
Lived in a Shoe” was the subject and the only
scenery was an immense shoe at the back of the
stage which looked like a house with a door in
the heel, windows in the top which opened and
closed with little green shutters, windows in the
eyelets and other devices which made for effec—
tiveness. The Playground Mothers League
bought the material and made the costumes as--
sisted by the children.

New Play Areas—Reports from a number of
cities indicate that last summer a number of new
playgrounds were opened or under construction
in all parts of the country. In Pittsburgh, the
Y. M. C. A. donated the use of property pur
chased for the site of a new building, the con—
struction of which has been delayed. The ground
was equipped by the Division of Recreation. For
the sum of $1.00 a year W. R. Gibson, president
of the Gibson Corporation, has turned over ten
acres of land in Lynbrook, Long Island, for use
of the playground and athletic field. Bowling
Green, Kentucky, has a new park purchased by
the city. Mr. and Mrs. George A. Loughlin of
Greggsville, Wheeling, West Virginia, have deed-e
ed to the city a tract of land to be used for recre-
ation. Cincinnati has received from Dr. and Mrs.
N. W. Brown three acres of land, while New
Orleans announced a new playfield with facilities
for major sports. Fifteen acres of the Amazon
Reservoir site have been donated by the Public
Utilities Commission to the San Francisco Recre-
ation Commission, and 600 unemployed men will
be put to work. In W'estport, Maryland, a three
and a half acre lot has been presented to the city
by Charles A. Cummins which will be known as
the Florence Cummins Playground in honor of
Mr. Cummins,’ wife. Tennis courts, baseball dia-

monds and similar facilities will be provided. An -

80 acre recreation center for College Park,
Georgia, was dedicated in August. Facilities in-
clude, a modern club house built in log cabin style,
tennis courts, and a golf course.

WORLD AT PLAY 579

College Degrees for
Students and Teachers of

Health, Physical Education
and Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION

June 11 to June 29 July 2 to August 10
August 13 to August 31

Graduate courses in Health and Physical Educa—
tion leading to standard degrees. Undergraduate
courses leading to baccalaureate degree. Special
courses in Athletic Coaching for men and women.
Reduced room. board and railroad rarer.
For Special Bulletin address Director of Summer Session

The Pennsylvania State College
State College. Pa.

 

Jacksonville’s D011 House—Fancy dolls, rag
dolls and dolls of every description were entered
by children and grown-ups in the annual doll
show held in June by the Jacksonville, Florida,
Recreation Commission. Three classes of com-
petition were open—dolls representing children;
dolls representing adults, and miscellaneous clas-
silication. In judging stress was laid on the cos-
tumes rather than on the types of dolls. Fash-
ions for every day attire, sports, school clothes,
military uniforms, evening dresses, party dresses
and wedding clothes, were in vogue. Many dif-
ferent nationalities were represented.

Waco, Texas, Recreation Program to Con—
tinue—On August 26th the citizens of Waco,
Texas, defeated a charter amendment designed to
amend the city charter to read that the City Coun—
cil “may” levy instead of “shall” levy a tax for
recreation. This amendment, if carried, would
have resulted in practically abolishing the Recre-
ation Commission. Following an intensive cam
paign the amendment was defeated by a vote of
almost three to one. This means the continuance
of the local program with a budget of $7,! 50.

Park Acreage in Denver—According to the
report of Denver’s Park System 1933, the com-
bined acreage of the mountain and city parks of
Denver, Colorado, affords its population an acre
of park for every twenty—five people.

Steubenville Reduces Rates—The Steuben-
ville, Ohio, Recreation Board is offering a com-
bination season ticket for golf and swimming at
the following rates: Men, $10.00; women, $5.00;
students, $5.00. Special rates are being offered
for groups. Groups of three or more receive a

25 per cent discount; ten or more, 30 per cent;
twenty or more, 40 per cent, and forty or more,

50 per cent.

 

What 5,000 People Do in Their
Leisure Hours

(Continued from page 550)

drama groups under public and private auspices
are in order since although statistical summaries
do not bring demand for them near the top of the
list, yet personal interviews among many hun-
dreds indicated strong desires for them.

 

More Leisure Time Studies

(Continued from page 554)

Community Council as the result of its study of
what 54 men and 32 women did in their spare
time. Those who responded to the questionnaire
were asked to indicate the extent of their partici-
pation in 32 spare time activities by checking the
words “regularly,” “often,” “sometimes,” sel-
dom” or “never.” It was found that all of the men
read newspapers; 50 listened to the radio; 42
went on automobile rides; 40 studied at home; 39
went to church; 39 read magazines; 36 wrote let-
ters; 35 listened to classical music; 34 read serious
books; 30 went to the movies; 38 played with
their children; 28 went to libraries; 28 visited the
zoo; 28 did home carpentry; 27 went to parties;
26 to baseball games; 26 to dances; 25 to club
meetings, and 25 to the theater.

Lesser numbers of men sang for recreation or
went to concerts, did charity work, read novels,
painted or drew pictures. Seven said they were
interested in cooking and sewing.

Of the 32 women, 30 were classed as having at
least a moderate interest in cooking and sewing.
An equal number listened to the radio and 29 read
newspapers. Twenty—four wrote letters; 24 went
to church; 22 read magazines; 22 went for auto-
mobile rides; 20 went to libraries; 20 to movies;
18 to dances; 18 to club meetings; 18 sang; 18
went to parties; 17 read novels; 14 read serious
books ; 13 studied at home; 13 played with their
children; 13 went to the zoo; 11 to concerts; 11
to the theater and 10 to community centers.

Significant differences were found in the spare
time habits of men and women. The largest
group of men, although less than a majority,
went to baseball games “sometimes” and the larg-

MORE LEISURE TIME STUDIES

A Better Position

You can get it

Hundreds of teachers will earn two hundred.dollars or more this

summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better
position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE
OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be
mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available
now in every State. They will soon be filled.

Continental Teachers Agency, Inc.
1850 Downing Street Denver, Colo.

Covers the ENTIRE United States

School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our ex—
pense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential

reports by air mail within 36 hours.

est group of women'“never” went. Men were
more apt to study at home than women, women
more apt to sing than men. Mothers tended to
play with their children “regularly” and fathers
“sometimes.”

How Salespeople Spend Their Leisure

An interesting report comes from the National
Retail Dry Goods Association.

One hundred and thirty-two salespeople when
asked how they spend their day off during a week
in the fall combined the following answers:

At hairdressers Reading
Auto rides Resting
Golf Sewing
Hiking Shopping
Housework Sleeping
Movies Sports
Nursing Swimming
Out in the open Trips
Visiting

Of the above, “housework” and “out in the
open” were by far the most popular diversions.

The question, “are people pleased with the ad-
ditional leisure which is now theirs P” brought the
following answer:

“In the majority of instances, yes. Some who
do not know how to pleasantly and profitably use

leisure would rather be at work. One young man
who comes in later each morning would rather
come in early than ‘help with dishes’ at home. A
holiday which is not also a holiday for one's
friends is apt to be an irksome thing. It would
seem as if eventually there may be enacted a five
day work week—with two days off—Sunday and
one other, as a holiday. This would- solve the
problem of leisure and also stimulate business.”

Camp Fire Girls Have An Answer

(Continued from page 555)
vestigating the various kinds of saddles and

bridles used in this and other countries. The local
executive says, “The girls are really catching their
flowing manes! We are planning talks by business
men and interested women who have hobbies
which the girls have chosen. They will help the
girls to begin work, and show them some of the
possibilities open to them. Our groups are all _
busy because each girl has charge of a hobby
meeting and she wants hers to be the most inter-
esting. Some groups have proud cooks who ex-

hibit their wares, believing that the way to win
(Continued on page 581)

AMONG OUR FOLKS 581

Among Our Folks

 

ALFRED G. ARVOLD

N FEBRUARY 10th, 11th and 12th, the twenti-
O eth anniversary of the Little Country Thea—
ter, Fargo, North Dakota, was celebrated. The
anniversary program was replete with activities
common in the public discussion laboratory plays,
round table discussions, luncheons and dinners,
program exercises, music and demonstrations of
talent from all over the state. Special features in-
cluded the unveiling of a Peer Gynt window and
the formation of an Ibsen Club.

The twenty years which have passed since the
foundation of the Little Country Theater have
been rich with human experiences. Over a quarter
of a million people have passed through the thea-
ter’s laboratories and caught its vision. Insepara-
ble from the history and achievements of the Lit-
tle Country Theater is the personality of its
founder, Alfred G. Arvold, who, while a student
at the University of Wisconsin, conceived the
idea of a theater which would belong to the peo-
ple who live in out of the way places and which
would be a satisfying and rich channel of ex-
pression.

Mr. Arvold has always been a warm friend of
the recreation movement. He has been present at
a number of the Recreation Congresses where

with impressive simplicity and power he has told
the story of the Little Country Theater. He has
taught at the National Recreation School. His
experience and knowledge have been available to _
all wishing it.

Recreation workers throughout the country will
join in wishing Mr. Arvold many more years of -
service at the Little Country Theater.

 

 

favor is through the well known channel of the
stomach.”

The Camp Fire executive in Portland, Oregon,
says that the hobbies project has shown that even
high school girls have time to do what they really
want to do. Girls who have chosen the same hobby
get together weekly; there is a writing group
meeting with a friendly novelist, and groups have
also been formed for chorus work, dramatics,
handicrafts, riding, camp craft,'interior decora-
tion. Hobbies chosen by the girls reflect their
favorite activities as shown in the special survey
conducted by the organization this year—sports,
hiking and outdoor cooking, dramatics, handi-
craft, entertainment, music, and dancing.

Two groups of Camp Fire Girls in Iowa re-
cently won the highest commendation from the
judges at a county flower show and at the State
Fair where they exhibited over 500 specimens of
native wild flowers. These two groups had made
the collection a joint hobby, and the work and en-
thusiasm of all the girls made possible a very
worth while undertaking. This sort of nature
hobby is an excellent one for the individual, as
well, and the things he or she may collect are al-
most innumerable. The bypaths of a nature hobby
lead one to all sorts of interesting discoveries
about the surrounding country and may lead also
to a genuine interest in the larger fields of
geology, astronomy, or biology. A beginning can
be made without purchasing any equipment, and
there are books in most libraries to help the new
hobbyist.

During March and April Camp Fire Girls will
be holding hobby fairs in many towns through-
out the country. At these fairs not only~boys and
girls will be exhibiting their hobby collections and
scrapbooks, but in many cases, adults who have
interesting hobbies will be asked to contribute.
The purpose of the fairs is to stimulate the in-
terest of the whole community in the possibilities
for real pleasure to be found in hobbies, and to
give adults and children alike new ideas for hob-
bies of their own.

582 CAMP FIRE GIRLS HAVE AN ANSWER

DIAMOND OFFICIAL COURTS
FOR INDOORS OR OUT

DIAMOND

 

 

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to
professionals. Excellent for amateurs. Just
what's needed on a playground. Will
stand up under severest treatment. Dia-
' mond Officials made straight or curved toe

calk. hard or soft (dead falling). Junior
model for ladies and children.

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

At the Exposition of Women’s Arts and In-
dustries to be held at the Hotel Astor, New York
City, in October, Camp Fire Girls will sponsor a
hobby display. They are asking women in all parts
of the country who have interesting hobbies to
write describing them to the Hobby Committee,
Camp Fire Girls, 41 Union Square, New York
City. From these letters the committee will
choose the material for the display. Prizes will be
awarded at the Exposition.

The Place of Leisure Time in the
Modern Social Order

(Continued from page 557)
adding bits to the whatnot. Sticking to one or
two types of activities which appeal strongly has
a much greater value. Experimentation is also
needed in the matter of organization and set-up
of leisure time programs; how to make them
available in such a way as to be of the greatest
service. There is also need to dig up sources of
enjoyment, particularly those which involve very

little expenditure of money.
The interest of the personnel manager in 'the

       
   
       
    
   
    
     

use of leisure time by workers was discussed by
Miss Helen R. Norton, Manager, Personnel
Group, National Dry Goods Retail Association.
The interest is primarily a selfish one in order
that the employee may come back fresh for
work. An attempt is being made to secure infor-
mation from personnel managers in dry goods
stores as to what they have done or are thinking
about the leisure time program. She believes that
with the reduction in working hours in stores
much more will be done in the way of both guid—
ing employees in the use of their leisure and also,
perhaps, in the actual provision of opportunities.
The rigid educational hours and requirements
make it difficult for store workers to enroll in
most courses during their odd hours. She sug-
gested that one of the most important things
which could be done would be to have appointed
in each city a coordinator to work with large
stores to try to bring together people who have
the same interests and then secure facilities and
opportunities which will enable these people to
carry on their activities.

Suggestions for Music Week
and Other Weeks

(Continued from page 562)

“Folk Festivals” collected by Mary E. Shambaugh,
published by A. S. Barnes 8.: C0., 67 West 44th St.,
New York. Price $3.00

“Folk Festival of The Homelands,” A forty-one page,
annotated and illustrated program of a two-day fes-
tival held in New York. Obtainable from the Folk
Festival Council, 222 Fourth Ave., New York.

Price 25c.
There was much pleasure at a neighborhood

center in New York one evening when, after en-
joying the dancing and singing of an Estonian, a
Bulgarian and a Ukrainian group, each in costume
and appearing alone, the audience was invited to
learn one folk song from each group in English
translation, and to sing it with them. (The songs
had been chosen beforehand from those suggested
for the purpose by the leader of each group.) All
three groups were on the stage together, their
costumes presenting a full springtime of color,
while the easy learning of each song went on.
They all joined in the singing. .That, too, was a
festival, and one easily arranged. We are likely
to picture an enormous company of performers
when we think of having a festival; but it is the
festive spirit that makes a festival, and that may
arise in‘full delight even in a small company.

NOTE: This article may be secured in the form of a

mimeographed bulletin for 15 cents.

FALL AND WINTER HIKING 583

Fall and Winter Hiking

(Continued from page 563)

One of the hikes of that first winter which the
group now likes to recall was a hike taken one
Sunday afternoon when the roads, the trees, and
the ground were covered with a sheet of ice. The
hike led into some canyons, and such slipping and
sliding and scrambling as resulted defy descrip-
tionl Luckily no casualties resulted, and the club
is looking forward to another ice-bound hike.

A year ago last spring sixty members of the
club motored seventy miles to the site of an In-
dian burial ground, probably two hundred years
old, and there, in a beating rain, discovered some
beads, war paint, and a fine, flat spear. In spite of
soaking which resulted, despite the fact that many
of the cars had to be pushed up the clay hills, it is
a hike that is recalled frequently with many "Do
you remembers.”

Something of the Spirit of the club is reflected
in the club song, parts of which follow:

We travel the highways

The streams and the byways
Whatever the weather may be.
We all hike together

In all kinds of weather

O’er trails that are ever new.

Stop on account of weather? No indeed!
Neither hot winds nor cold winds, rains, blizzards,
nor sub-zero weather stop these hardened hikers
from living up to their slogan, “No hikes post-
poned on account of weather.”

The Automobile As a Factor

in Recreation
(Continued from page 569)

reation areas of some of the largest metropolitan
centers. Examples are the Cook County Forest
Preserves near Chicago, the Palisades Interstate
Park near New York City, and the Los Angeles
County Parks. Automobiles have helped to popu-
larize the parks around Boston and Cleveland.
The effect of these parks on recreation activities
has been immense. Golf and other games that re-
quire space for their enjoyment have fOUnd thou-
sands of new fans. .

It seems certain that the shorter working hours
envisaged in the National Recovery Act and the
“new deal” must increase use of all these city,
county, state and federal recreation facilities.
Hundreds of New Yorkers, for example, may

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

( formerly Notable Swimming Pools and Guide to
Equipment and Supplies)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANGE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT, ETC.

Hoffman-Harris, lnc.
II4 East 32nd St. New York City

drive to beaches beyond the polluted waters in the
mid-city sections of East River and the Hudson.
They may play a round of golf on a Westchester
County course or picnic along the Palisades. In
all parts of the country people will use their cars
to transport them to parks outside the city limits
to recreation places of many kinds where they may
enjoy the forms of recreation which appeal to
themumost. Vacation motoring, which, according
to the Social Trends Committee declined from 10
to 15 per cent in 1930, will again come into its
own, and the natural beauty of national parks and
forests, which the federal government is doing so
much to preserve, will become the possession of
many thousands who without the automobile
could never hope to see these wonders.

How to Produce a Play
(Continued from page 571)

actor? There is a difference between a Chinese
robe and a Japanese kimona, and savage Indians

do not wear white collars under their buckskin
jackets.

Fit. Does the costume fit as it is supposed to,
or does the actor look as though he were wearing

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

some one else’s clothing? Use discretion in bor-
rowing the other fellow’s clothes for a stage cos-
tume. Often the fit can be accomplished with a
package of safety pins as easily and as satisfac-
torily as with needle and thread.

Color. Does the color become the actor? Does
it suit the atmosphere of the scene? Does it har-
monize with the other costumes on the stage?
Does it contrast or show up against the setting?
How will it react under the lights used in the
scene? The costumer must ask himself a host of
questions in deciding upon the color for the vari-
ous costumes. Color can be obtained by dyeing
and painting the material.

Texture. Each material has a distinct texture
of its own which possesses a definite personality,
and its own way of reacting under stage lights.
Velvet, silk, burlap, muslin, cheesecloth, each ex-
presses a different personality.

Silhouette. Each costume should have a dis-
tinct silhouette (profile or line), and there should
he a variety of silhouettes on the stage. Each sil-
houette must be characteristic of the part por-
trayed, as well as historically and geographically
correct. Wire, buckram, cardboard, ruffles and
puffs are used to hold the material in form to
secure unusual and striking effects by an artistic
magnification of silhouette.

A Few Simple Costume Suggestions

Plate armor can be made of buckram, moist-
ened, shaped and sewed, then painted with alumi-
num paint and dusted over with graphite dust.

Chain mail can be made of old knitted sweat-
ers, burlap or knitted dish cloths sewed together
and painted with silver or aluminum paint.

Buckskin for Indian and pioneer costumes may
be made of osnaberg dyed a soft yellowish brown.
Fringe and bead the material for the Indian
costumes.

Sandals may be made of inner soles and cloth
tape.

Boots and leggings may be made of oilcloth or
painted heavy canvas.

Helmets and hats can be made of buckram
painted or covered with other material.

Flowered cretonnes are ,effective in colonial
costumes.

Jewelry can be made of cardboard, putty, gold
paint and glass beads.

The group which produces only occasionally

    

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
i of Interest to the Recreation Worlzer i

 
    

  

MAGAZINES
The Parents’ Magazine, February 1934

Creative
Browne

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
February 1934

The Influence of Physical Education Upon Other

Forms of Cultural and Avocational Recreation, by
A. S. Hotchkiss

Community Recreation Centers, by Strong Hinman

Boston Board of Officials for \Vomen's Sports, by
Elizabeth Beall and Emily MacKinnon

Teaching of Swimming and Diving to \Vomen, by
Ann Avery Smith

The Journal of the National Education Association,
January 1934 and February 1934

The New Leisure Challenges the Schools (series),
by Eugene T. Lies

The Woman’s Press, January 1934
Good Times Together, by Mary J. Breen

Learning a Way of Leisure, by Harry A. Overstreet
Leisure—for What? by Janet Fowler Nelson

The Survey M idmonthly, February 1934
A Park for Every County, by Henry S. Curtis

The Grade Teacher, March 1934
Designing Kite Decorations, by W'illiam V. Winslow

Child Welfare, February 1934
Amusing Young Patients, by M. Louise C. Hastings
Parks and Recreation, January 1934

Federal Aid for Parks and Recreation Systems
Construction of Pedestrian Paths Along Highways

Opportunities for Children, by Sibyl

PAMPH LETS

Child Labor—Facts. mIMigures-
Publication N6. 197,"!Ih'ildr‘en’s Bureau, U S: De-
partment of Labor. $.10.

Reading List—Junior and Senior High Schools
Bulletin 80, 1933. Department of Public Instruction,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pa.

Annual Report of the B urean of Recreation, Department
of Public Welfare, Knoxville, Tenn., 1933

Annual Report and Program of Recreation and Play-
grounds, West Chicago Parks, Chicago, Ill., 1933

A Report for the Year l933—Depart1nent of Public Rec-
reation, Irvington, N. J.

Sonierville, Mass., Recreation Commission Report for
the Year 1933

Report of Playgrounds—Holyoke, Mass., 1933
Reireational Use of Watersheds: A Suggested Reading-
1st
Bureau of Public Administration, University of
California

Annual Report of the Belleville, N. J., Recreation Com-
mission. 1933

Minnehiker 1933 Year Book
The Minneapolis, Minn., Municipal Hiking Club

Report of the Board of Park Commissioners for the Year
1933, Oklahoma City, Okla.

Recreation Department, City of Passaic, N. J., Twelfth
Annual Report, 1933

.III

F!

THE RADIO IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 585

can often rent some costumes, such as uniforms
and period costumes, more cheaply than they can
be made. The group which produces continually,
however, will usually find it cheaper to make the
costumes and add them to the wardrobe, as they
can be used time and time again.

No matter what the costume, it is important and
should receive careful study. If at all possible the
actor should wear the costume the last week of
rehearsals so that he will have the air of wearing
his own clothing and not a stage costume.

At a Settlement
(Continued from page 572)

in drama through the Irene Kaufmann Settlement
Players, the Guild Players, the Children’s Thea-
ter performances, play contests and drama classes.

Art classes and modeling classes had their de—
votees. The Art School founded by Mr. Teller in
1917 has grown steadily and now consists of a
modeling studio, a children’s creative studio and
an adult painting and drawing studio well
equipped with the necessary facilities.

Social activities, lectures and a variety of other
activities have been popular and have added their
quota to the aggregate attendance for the year of
ilmost 335,000 individuals in recreational and edu—

:ational programs—-a record which speaks for
itself.

The Radio As a Medium for

Recreation Programs
(Continued from page 574)

The other half of the weekly radio program,
‘For Boys and Girls Only,” consists of a number
3f activities in playground routine. This includes
spelling bees and dramatic plays, interviews be-
:ween Don Thompson, KPO sports reporter, and
iifferent boys concerning their ideas of games and
sports. The plays are chosen by Hester Proctor,
Supervisor of Dramatics for the Recreation Com—
nission. In many of these presentations the play—
ground director tells the children a story contain-
ng three or four characters, and they are per—
nitted to put the dialogue in their own words. A
ack of singsong delivery is the pleasing result.
the sports interviews are often amusing because
:he boys are not rehearsed and their impromptu
tI‘lSWCI’S are naive and entertaining.

The spelling bees have, perhaps, caused the
greatest amount of comment from the radio audi—

A Magazine for Instructors and
Woodworking Students

0 Class assignments, ready for the stu-
dents, are at your command in The Home
Craftsman. The working drawings are
complete and unusually large. Every pro-
ject is well illustrated with photographs
and described in clear, simple words. Each
one presented has actually been made, for
it is only in the construction of a project
that the mechanics can be simplified and
flaws eliminated. Each issue carries small
items for beginners, and larger ones for the
advanced student. Workshop hints and
short—cuts in procedure abound in every
issue.

0 A glance at the new number will show
you why an instructor* in Long Island.
New York, said, “In the public schools I
find your magazine more useful than any-
other on the market, and I try most all of
them.”

0 A ten issue subscription will bring you
nearly one hundred projects and workshop
helps. Send a dollar today!

* Name on request.

THE HOME CRAFTSMAN

DEPT. R . PLAINFIELD,N.J.

 

ences because of their educational value and ele—
ment of human interest. A unit of ten children is
picked at random from a playground and these
units spell in teams until they reach the finals by
elimination. The spirit of competition creates a
widespread interest among radio listeners.

The old adage about the “proof of the pudding”
might be applicable in this case, for Mrs. Foster
reports an increasing attendance of children on
the various playgrounds which may be traceable,
at least to some extent, to the interest created in
these presentations. A weekly average of twelve
hundred is registered this year in the city play-
grounds, whereas only nine hundred reported last
year at this same time. Also from the radio of-
cials comes the report that they are well pleased
with the reception of these programs.

These recreational programs have passed the
experimental stage, and undoubtedly will prove to
be a valuable addition to radio broadcasting in the
future. San Francisco truly is proud of the pioneer
work which the Recreation Commission’s music
and dramatic departments have done along these
lines.

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

The NewoLeisure Challenges the Schools

By Eugene T. Lies. National Recreation Association,
New York. 326 Pages. Cloth $2.00; Paper $1.50.

ATIMELY BOOK, a mine of information, a well of in-

spiration on the whole vast subject of schools in re-
lation to the problem of leisure. Based upon eighteen
months’ study in the field, the examination of loads and
loads of printed material and conferences galore with
school authorities in all parts of the country.

Abundant leisure is here. , The schools are passing
through a period of reconstruction. Administrators and
teachers are groping for new light upon the place of edu-
cation in a world full of momentous new issues affecting
the very fundamentals of civilization. And here is a
document, sponsored by the National Education Associa-
tion and blessed with a foreword by one who has
pioneered in preaching the gospel of education for the
best use of free time. Dr. John H. Finley. “Here,” he
declares, “is the first comprehensive, interpretive, prac—
tical guide to the new land that lies beyond the verges
of the vocation.”

Training for leisure through the daily program; what
is being done in the fields of physical education, art, music,
dramatics, literature, the handcrafts, nature study, extra-
curricular activities. What about after-school hours, va-
cation time, recreational opportunities for youth and
adults, larger use of schools by the community, evening
school programs, recreation systems under school boards?
All these matters are discussed in illuminating fashion

The schools in relation to other agencies and influences
in community life, including city recreation departments,
is the theme of one important chapter.

While Mr. Lies is all for a larger understanding and a
larger assumption of responsibility in the field of leisure
by the school folks, he nevertheless presses the point that
“the school cannot do the whole job of either educating
for leisure or providing full opportunities for everybody
during free time,” declaring that “the need of the hour
everywhere is for social and educational statesmanship
based upon cooperative study and thinking," "a locking
of arms of many community forces.”

City recreation workers, settlement workers, Y. M. C.
A. and Y. W. C. A. workers, community chest and coun-
cil of social agencies executives, parent-teacher associa-
tion officials, as well as school administrators and teach-
ers, would derive light and leading from a study of this
book, which was the basis of much discussion at the
recent Cleveland convention of the National Education
Association.

586

MentaliHygiene in the Community

By Clara Bassett. The Macmillan Company, New York.
$3.50.
THIS PICTURE of the relation of mental hygiene to com-
munity problems rather than the problems of the in-
dividual is an important contribution to the literature on
this subject. In a stimulating chapter on Mental Hygiene
and Recreation the author points out the value of a vigor-
ous and varied recreation program as a community health
measure. “There is,” she says, “the closest relationship
between creative recreation and mental health, and it may
safely be said that the work of recreational agencies
which furnish a wide variety of opportunities for joyous
participation in wholesome play activities is one of the
greatest social forces for the promotion and preservation
of physical, mental and social health.”

Miss Bassett presents a challenge to recreation workers
when she points out the difficulty “of securing recrea-
tional opportunities and understanding recreational super-
vision for children who are known to be delinquent,
peculiar or especially difficult.” Not only, she feels, is
recreational "discrimination" apparent in relation to indi-
viduals with behavior and personality disorders, but is
decidedly prevalent in regard to certain social groups.
The book represents an unusually stimulating approach to
mental hygiene and community problems.

Youth Never Comes Again

Edited by Clinch Calkins. Published by Committee on
Unemployed Youth, 450 Seventh Avenue, New York.

$.25.
LINCH CALKINS, author of Some People Won’t Work,
has given us in this bookiet a practical handbook for
the use of community ofiicials, educators, social workers
and others interested in the problem of unemployed youth.
\Vhose business is it, the author asks, "to give to the
young peOple of the depression a reason for existence or
even a method of endurance if no satisfactory objective
can be found”? The answer is clear. It is plainly every
one’s business—the family’s, the state’s, and the inter—
mediate community’s, for in twenty years these young
people "will either be carrying the country on their backs
or the country will be carrying them.”

Miss Calkins suggests ways of starting, points out how
the resources of a whole city can be drawn upon for a
single end, records a number of self-help and mutual aid
projects, describes some of the recreation programs be-
ing conducted, and discusses informal education and
school programs. The booklet is stimulating and practical.
It should be in the library of every recreation worker.

NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 587

Art in America.

From 1600 to 1865. Prepared by Harold Stark. Uni-
versity of Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinois. $1.00.

This illustrated guide, prepared under the auspices of
the American Federation of Arts and a number of co-
operating agencies, is designed for use in connection with
a series of sixteen broadcasts on American art which
will be conducted every Saturday night at 8:00 P. M.,
Eastern Standard Time, over Station WJZ from Febru—
ary 3rd to May 19th. The first series of broadcasts, to-
gether with the guide, has been organized with the co-
operation of the Art Institute of Chicago and the Metro-
politan Museum of Art. The second series, dealing with
art in America from 1865 to the present time, will be
prepared with the cooperation of the Museum of Modern
Art. The guide is a most informative and beautifully
illustrated book which recreation workers will welcome.

The Rebuilding of Blighted Areas.

A Study of the Neighborhood Unit in Replanning
and Plot Assemblage. By Clarence Arthur Perry

and C. Earl Morrow. Regional Plan Association,
Inc., 400 Madison Avenue, New York. $2.00.

As the title implies, this book deals primarily with
housing and planning problems. In attacking the prob—
lem of rebuilding blighted areas, the authors have used
as a basis for their various plans a rectangular tract of
land in Queensboro, New York City, comprising forty-
one acres. Five alternate plans have been prepared to
provide housing at varying costs for from five to six
thousand population. The practical problems involved in
assembling the acreage necessary for a neighborhood
housing development and the financial factors involved
are carefully considered. Of special interest to play-
ground and recreation authorities is the provision for
recreation areas in all the plans. As pointed out in the
foreword: “Children can reach playgrounds and youths
athletic fields with no danger from traffic. Movies,
lectures, dances, theatricals, bowling, swimming and bil-
l‘i_ards——for these and many other recreations and diver-
sions adequate provision is made right in the housing
scheme. In a word, this plan not only provides com-
fortable shelter and the services reQuired for efficient
home—making, but in the same framework it incorporates
the facilities required for the cultural and social life of
the family—facilities which the resident of the modern
city by himself is unable to secure, but which he has long
needed and which he will find more necessary than ever
in the ‘new leisure' that is now at hand.”

Each of the five plans provide that the center of the
unit shall be devoted primarily to recreation areas, the
total space allotted for this purpose averaging about nine
acres. Among the features provided in each plan are a
children’s playground adjoining the school, several tennis
courts, an outdoor swimming pool and athletic field, as
well as a common or landscaped area. Each plan also
provides for a number of indoor facilities such as gym-
nasium and locker rooms, bowling alleys, game rooms
and dance hall, as well as a motion picture theater. Mr.
Perry’s plans deserve special commendation for their very
considerable allowance for recreation. As pointed out in
the report, the space allotted for these recreation areas is
in addition to the many landscaped courts which are equal
iii area to those which have been provided in the average
development of the New York State Housing Board.

Recreation leaders will do well to become familiar with

this recent contribution to the very important problem of
neighborhood planning.

“Kit” 35.

Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Church
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

“Kit” 35 contains some brief suggestions for Christ-

mas programs. There are also a number of games and
fo.k songs with music.

Club Leadership.

By Basil L. Q. Henriques, M.A., J.P. Oxford Uni-
versity Press, London. $1.50. .
Here is a human document written from wide experi-'
ence —by a man who cares deeply for boys and who
understands them and their problems. Though based on
experience in English clubs, there is a fund of informa—
tion applicable to work with boys in America and other
countries. Suggestions are offered for organization and
administration, activities, leadership, problems of disci-
pline and the many factors which enter into boys’ club
life—all discussed in simple and human terms.

Girl Scout Handbook.

Girl Scouts, Incorporated, 570 Lexington Avenue,
New York City. $.50.

The new edition of the Girl Scout Handbook—a vol-
ume of almost six hundred pages— should have great
value not only for Girl Scout leaders but for recreation
workers in general who will find in it a vast amount .of
information on subjects of interest to them. These in-
clude hiking and camping, swimming and life saving.
citizenship, handcraft and camp fire programs. Complete
information is given about badges and awards and the
requirements for the different ranks of scouting. There
are many illustrations. A c0py of the Girl Scout pro-
ficiency badge requirements and special awards is sup-

plied with the book.

The National Parks and Emergency Conservation.

National Park Service, U. S. Department of the
Interior. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C.

In this new and attractive pamphlet much timely in-
formation is given regarding the administration of our
national parks and the emergency conservation work
being conducted.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer

HowARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WiLiAM BUTTERWOR'I'H, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTH'UR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
gum ll. FiNLEY, New York, N. Y.

non FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
\ViLLiAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CiiARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y. .
MRS. CHARLES V. I‘IICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANiER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSiTER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOLtis, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MiLLiKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodhury, N. Y.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTn, JR., Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
{fine G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

RS. WILLIAM H. \VOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

