"Enrichment of Life"

IME is the raw material out of which life is carved. Leisure is our own
T time. We ourselves are the employers of leisure. The shape or pattern

of life often becomes largely a matter of how we use what is loosely
called “spare time.”

As far as accomplishment is concerned for millions of people, the day is
done when the whistle blows. “Nothing to do until tomorrow” is the slogan.
Aimless recreation follows. Yet, most of these people have vague ambitions
of one sortvor another. The time when these ambitions might be set in motion
is the leisure time. By ignoring this use of leisure the best in life is tossed
aside like an old newSpaper. Such waste of time might be more readily justi—
fled if it led to contentment. On the contrary, no one is more bored with
himself or leads a duller existence than the person who has no program for
his after—working hours.

Most pe0ple do not use time with a purpose. They drift with it. Instead
of making life, they permit it to happen. Their conversation is of yesterday
and their thoughts of tomorrow. Many of the ancients were wiser. “Canoe
diem,” meaning “Seize the day,” was the advice of Horace two thousand
years ago. Make the, most of today is the sense of this expression. Forget
yesterday, for yesterday is'gone. Dismiss tomorrow. Tomorrow is never
here. Live today! Grasp the fleeting moment by the forelock and use it now.
Let it slip by and it is out of your graSp forever.

Time is the element out of which life is carved. I am thinking of the
marble out of which sculptors carve their works of art. In a sense each of us
is a sculptor. Day by day we hammer away at the marble which is time.
Chip by chip it falls at our feet. The outline of a statue first appears rough,
almost formless. Indeed, it is never wholly finished. To the last hour we
apply the chisel. At length the hand relaxes and life is done. The statue is
our life’s work. It is the result of what we have done with time. If we have
lived beautifully, it is beautiful. If we have lived usefully, the marble figure
has, at least, a semblance of beauty. If we have lived badly, aimlessly, care—
lessly, our handiwork reflects the misuse of the primal material given us——-

Time.

JAMES A. MOYER,

Division of University Extension
Massachusetts Department of Education. '

 

AUGUST,m35

 

233

«£23.: 22 .8 catatonmr 3x mam mag mum.»

v3.4a Z._OOZ_._ ._.< amp/\th mOOEbO m_>._._0 <§OI<._V_O .

» ahzmuwméum mum,
53$ £29.".qu mm?
who—human.“ my.» $93 ,

 

234

 

Courtesy Look Memorial Pa rk Commission, N orh'mmpton'

HERE Is NOTHING new about giving plays out—
T of—doors, but the increasing emphasis on out-

door production has resulted in wide interest
in the construction of municipal and school out-
door theaters. In the past few years the allocation
of funds for 'ERA and PVVA projects which
serve the cultural interest of the people has done
much to increase the number of outdoor theaters.
And so today from coast to coast there are to be
found theaters ranging from the “Little Lattice
Playhouse” in Oakland, a simple stage erected in
an old olive orchard and embellished with lattice
work, to the elaborate amphitheater in Oklahoma
City, where, when the project is completed, 14,000
people will be accommodated.

Between these two extremes of planned and
constructed theaters are to be found innumerable
woodland and garden theaters created by nature.
Most of these are beautifully located in county
and municipal parks. The Griffiths Theater in
Griffiths Park, Los Angeles, is recognized as one
of thefinest in the public parks of the country.
Salt Lake City’s theater in Nibley Park with the
stage located on an island in the lake, the audi-

torium being on the opposite shore, is an example.

of an outdoor theater which is performing out-
standing service in the musical and dramatic pro-
ductions presented there each year.

The Sylvan Theater in Washington, D. C., lo—
cated in Monument Grounds Park, is well known,
as is Salem’s theater in Willows Park and many
others which might be mentioned.

A few details about some of the existing thea-
ters will be of interest.

In Northampton, Massachusetts

One of the outstanding recreational projects de-
ve10ped under the Emergency Relief Administra-
tion in Massachusetts is the outdoor theatre in the
Frank Newhall Look Memorial Park at North-
ampton, a community of 25,000 people located in
a thickly populated section of New England. H.
Foss Narum, Park Manager, sends a description
of it.

In the original development plan for the park
drawn by Robert VVashburn Beal of Boston, a
fan shaped area had been set aside for the future
construction of an outdoor theatre. This area,
surrounded by tall pine and elm trees, was utilized
in planning the stage and auditorium when, shortly
after the initiation of E.R.A. in Massachusetts,
the local firm of Putnum and Stuart was author-
ized by the Park Board of Trustees to draw plans
for the construction of the auditorium.

The plans as drawn were approved by the
Trustees of the park and presented to the Com-
monwealth ERA. for their approval. In April
1934 the approved plans were returned td E.R.A.
Administrator J. P. Boland and 50 men were as-
signed to the work. As all of the work was done
by “wheelbarrow labor” the work progressed
slowly during the following months. By Novem-
ber the project had been completed as far as was

possible by unskilled labor, and the piping for

water supply and drainage was then installed.
During the eight months in which the men Worked
there were from 50 to 140 men working 18 to 24
hours a week. Over 7500 yards of material were
moved from the front of the area to the rear to
give an eight foot rise in the rear and a seven

235

236 A FEW OF AMERICA’S OUTDOOR THEATERS

foot drop at the front of the area. The E.R.A.
allotted about $18,000 for this work.

The auditorium is 233’ wide at the rear, 130’
wide at the front and is 176’ from the rear to the
pool in front of the stages. At the present time it
is not planned to install seats or permanent
benches. Loam and grass seed will be put on next
spring after re-leveling the area, as may be neces-
sary after settling and winter frost.

Separating the auditorium and the 46’ by 100’
pageant area is a 'water pool 130 feet long, eight
feet wide and 24 inches deep. Piping at this pool
will be arranged so as to permit the use of a water
curtain to separate the stage from the auditorium.

The first stage level is‘known as the “pageant
area” and will have a floor of grass. This area will
be used as an orchestra pit as well as for pageants.

The second level is two and one-half feet higher
than the 'pageant area and is 45’ deep by 123’
wide. This will be the main production stage for
plays and concerts. Future plans for this area
will necessitate an expenditure of about $10,000
to permit a stage of Hagstone, stage lighting facili-
ties, two twelve foot square pillars at ,each side
of the stage to be used as control rooms, sound
amplification, sound shell, and to provide beneath
this stage the rest rooms and dressing rooms.

A large number of cities and towns are within
a 25 mile radius of the park. Smith College in
Northampton, Amherst College in Amherst and
Mt. Holyoke College at South Hadley are all
within a short distance. The possibilities for musi-
cal and dramatic activities in this new outdoor

theatre are many.

Duluth’s Outdoor Theater
In 1907 the Park Department of Duluth, Minne—

sota, wrote the first
chapter of the his-
tory of its outdoor
theater when it cul-
verted a creek used
as a 'storm sewer
and started on the
erection of an am-

The outdoor theater
in Duluth is un-
usually fortunate in
its beautiful loca-
cation on the lake

phitheater. The towers and platforms completed
in 1928 are of native semi-face stone, having con-
siderable variation in color. The platform is of
heavy' slate of variegated colors. Underneath the
platform are toilet facilities and dressing rooms.
There is a sounding board for band concerts. The
amphitheater will seat about 10,000 people with-
out too much crowding, and the audience usually
sit on the grass. The structure cost $13,600 and
the culverting, grading and seeding about $4,500.

The Outdoor Amphitheater in Oklahoma City

Picture a sloping hillside field. fringed along its
lower sides with young oaks, well located as to
elevation so that fine vistas are seenito the east
across the lake and beyond, and to the south where
the rolling country spreads away into a scene
worthy of an artist’s recording.

This is the spot where Oklahoma City has lo-
cated its largest outdoor amphitheater in Lincoln
Park and an excellent choice of location it was,
giving one the feeling of peaceful satisfaction in
its natural beauty. From the illustration on page
234 it is possible to see how the stage is located in
the lower end to the south of the seats, a feature
important in this particular because wind currents
are from that direction and will carry the sound
from the stage into the audience.

Generous accommodation is provided for the
spacious seats which will accommodate 14,000
persons. Although the structure was only half
completed last year, an entertainment program
was held there which was attended by 14.000
children.

Hundreds of trees have been moved in order
to landscape the surrounding areas and preserve

(Continued on page 2.72)

 

 

HIS SUMMER many new recreational facilities
Twill be available, a large number of them
through the cooperation of PW A, city recre-
ation departments, park departments and other
municipal bodies. Private groups are also helping
in the country-wide effort which is being made to
provide projects from relief funds which will be
permanent assets to cities throughout the country.
Here are a few of the recreational facilities
which thousands of children and adults will enjoy
during the summer of 1935.

A Museum On a Playground

Prescott, Arizona, has a new municipal play-
ground of nine acres, the result of the cooperative
effort of the city, the schools, the public, the Un-
employment Committee of the Yavapai County
Chamber of Commerce, the Kiwanis and Rotary
Clubs, the RFC, the CVVA and the ERA. The
project represents an expenditure of approxi—
mately $120.000. The development is surrounded
by rock walls made of native granite. There are
stone bleachers along the east side. Other facili-
ties include a concrete stadium, four concrete
double tennis courts, and a separate stone build-
ing housing public toilets. A particularly interest-
ing feature of the project is the Smoki Public
Museum, erected on the playground from native
stone to house prehistoric relics.

A Swimming Pool in Goldsboro

In January 1935 the Goldsboro, North Carolina,
community building opened its indoor swimming
pool built at a cost of $17,000. Of this amount

New
Facilities
for .
Recreation

approximately $11,200 was furnished by C.W.A.
The pool is 70 feet long, 24 feet Wide, and of a
graduated depth from two feet nine inches to
eight feet nine inches. It has a modern filtering
system and a heating plant. Admission prices to
the pool have been set at such a reasonable figure
that no one need be excluded. Individual admis-
sion will be 10 and 20 cents; season tickets good
for four months will be $2.50 and $5.00.

A New Community House in Memphis

On the spot where the old John Gaston Home
once stood in South Memphis, Tennessee. has
arisen a new landmark, the John Gaston Com-
nlunity House, erected at a cost of about $125,000
with funds provided by the CVVA, TERA and the
City of Memphis, with CWA labor. The build-
ing has been named for the late John B. Gaston,
a pioneer developer of the section in which the
building is located, and it is a tribute to the mem-
ory of this outstanding citizen and of his wife,
who as Mrs. S. W. Mann left not only the prop-
erty to the city but also a large fund for the
erection of a hospital in honor of her first
husband. ,

The exterior of the building is a modern de—
sign of brick and stone and on the entrance front
are two stone tablets commemorating John B.
Gaston. The tablets also mention the Civil Works
Administration, city and county officials, members
of the Gaston Memorial Board and of the Park
Commission, and the architects. The building
consists of a group of social or club rooms erected
around a combination auditorium and gymnasium.
It is provided with a large lobby at the principal

237

238

 

......

NEW FACILITIES FOR RECREATION

 

The new community building in Memphis' Tennessee,
which has been dedicated to a richer life for all

entrance and two large

stair halls at the op-

posite end. There is direct access from these halls
and lobbies to the particular social room to be
used without going through the auditorium.

The auditorium will seat 1,500 people. The
stage is well equipped with lights, drops and
everything needed to stage professional and ama-
teur dramatic performances. There is a complete
talking and moving picture apparatus with loud
speakers for public meetings. Over the proscen-
ium arch in the gymnasium is the inscription:
“That everyone, young or old, shall have a chance
to play; shall have an opportunity to Find the best
and most satisfying use of leisure time.”

The building and playground, which are under
the supervision of the Park Commission, will be
open to the public at all times. A resident mana—
ger with his staff will be in charge of activities.
‘Members of the staff of the Recreation Depart-
ment are serving in this connection.

At the dedication on January 16th, 2,000 peo-
ple were present. This was the first of a series of
special events which continued during the week.

Memphis is proud of the progress it has made
in the recreation movement since the dedication of
Gaston Park in 1900 and the formation of the
Park Commission in that year. Today there are
1,41 1.62 acres in the city's 39 parks, a parkway of
11 miles, a zoological department, an art gallery,
and a museum of natural history. In 1920 when

the Recreation De-

partment of the Park
Commission was organized, there were 7 play-
grounds. Today there are 25 playgrounds. seven
of which are lighted and open for night play, 39
tennis courts, 9 hard baseball diamonds, 28 soft
ball diamonds, 3 swimming pools, 3 golf courses,
11 football Fields, and 4 indoor community cen-
ters. Recreation Department activities are carried
on after school hours in 27 public schools. Seven
institutions are reached with a regular program of
recreational activities during the year.

Other Buildings Erected

Through the generosity of Mr. C. S. Weston,
Scranton, Pennsylvania is to have a new building
at \Veston Park which will include showers for
men and Women, th‘ree club rooms, and a large
room which will serve as an auditorium or assem—
bly room. Mr. Wieston is supplying the material
for the building in the construction of which
CVVA labor will be used. The approximate cost
of the structure will be about $30,000.

\Vith the assistance of the Gilman, \Visconsin,
public schools the Taylor County ERA has erected
with relief labor a Boy Scout cabin made of cob-
ble stones. The high school students use this
cabin for band practice and social meetings. The
work was done under the supervision of E. A.
Rowley, Superintendent of Public Schools.

Planning the Summer Vacation

By HENRY S. CURTIS, Ph.D.
Ann,Arborl Michigan

HE STUDY of summer activities of children

made in Ann Arbor was not an attempt to

survey all summer activities. The- four under
consideration —camps, trips, farms and play—
grounds—were selected because, looked at from
a world point of view, they are in the process of
becoming public undertakings. Camps are now
being carried on by the government in Russia and
Italy and are being organized on a wide scale in
connection with the land retirement plan in this
country. They are being maintained by many
schools in Germany and by a few schools and
some playground systems in this country. Trips
have been a part of the program of the German
schools for fifty years and have always been the
classic European way of spending a vacation. The
government of Denmark and certain provinces of
Japan have for many years promoted the journey-
ing of city children to farms during the summer.
Playgrounds are becoming a public institution
throughout the civilized world.

Ann Arbor is a city of approximately 30,000
inhabitants, having a few more than 5,000 chil—
dren.in its public and private schools. The pro—
fessors from the University of Michigan and their
families represent somewhere from a fifth to one—
fourth of the population. There is also a consid—
erable group with collegians to educate and others
with large intellectual cravings who are living
here because of the university, but this class does
not furnish many of the school children. The
majority of them come from middle class Ameri-
can homes such as would be found in any north-
ern city.

Near the beginning of the school year last Sep—
tember a questionnaire was given out in all of the
schools. In the lower grades it was sent home with
a note for the parents to fill out. A regular class
period was taken for it in the upper grades.

In this article Dr. Curtis gives us a brief ac-
count of a study of the summer activities of
the children of Ann Arbor. Michigan. It was
made with FERA help under the direction of
the Department of Landscape Design of the
University of Michigan. The study is not yet
complete. and it will cover not merely the city
of Ann Arbor but the county as a whole, in-
cluding I40 rural schools and six other towns
and villages ranging from |.000 to [0.000 in-
habitants. As far as the study has gone the
results from other towns and rural schools are
in line with the findings from Ann Arbor. but
general conclusions will be more or less un-
certain until similar studies are completed in
other parts of the county.

 

\VASHTENAVV COUNTY SURVEY
SUMMER PLAY

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Age . . . . . . ..

Grade . . . . . . . . . .. School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Did you go to any camp last summer? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Name of camp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Where situated? . . . . . . . . . . . ..How far away? . . . . . . 

How long did you stay? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

How much did you pay per week? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Did you go on any long trip last summer? . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

How far? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Did you go by auto, train, bus or boat? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

\Vhere did you spend the night? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Did you stay on a farm for a time last summer? . . . . . . . .

How long? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Was it the farm of a relative? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Where is it? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Did you go regularly to any of the playgrounds of Ann
Arbor last summer? . . . . . . . ..Which one? . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
How often? . . . . . .How long did you usually stay?. . . . . .

1'"

What was your favorite game or activity? . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Dld you go regularly to city beaches, tennis courts, and
golf courses? Underline which

(For children of the first four grades only)

Where do you play when you are at home? . . . . . . . . . . . .
How large is your play yard? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
What do you play? . . . . . . . . . .i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Which of the following outdoor play things do you
have? (Check)

sand bin wagon bicycle .bars junglegym
seesaw tricycle scooter swing automobile
Add others :

Four thousand seven hundred and eleven chil-
dren sent back the questionnaires. Of this num-
ber 651 went to camp last summer for an average
of 22.9 days, a little.more than three weeks. This
accounts for 25.4 per cent of the time given to the
four activities.

239

240 PLANNING THE SUMMER VACATION

Camps

There were three types of camps represented in
the report—Scout camps, which were nearly all
patrol camps of less than 25 children, semi—public
and private camps. The Scouts either took their
food or bought it as a troop, cooked it themselves
'and lived in their own tents. While they usually
reported the expenses of the two weeks at from
$1.25 to $2.50 a week, the food probably cost no
more than it would at home, and the expense was
really nothing. The Scout camp has the great ad-
vantage of being an integrated part of the year as
it is discussed long beforehand and talked over
afterwards. It is camping with friends, and is
one of the best types of camp.

The semi—public camps maintained by the Y.M.
C.A.'s and the Y.W.C.A.’s and the University
Fresh Air Camp take a certain percentage of the
children for nothing and charge the others $7.00
a week. The stay is usually for two or three
weeks. This type of camp suffers from the lack
of continuity. There is in most cases no prepara-
tion and no follow-up. The children are usually
strangers to each other in the beginning, and the
period is too short for forming friendships or for
definite training.

The private camp usually takes its groups for
eight or ten weeks. It charges from $15.00 to
$50.00 a week, and as a rule has a fairly well-
paid staff and a good program of physical activi-
ties. It is, however, essentially a class camp and
may promote snobbery.

Most of the talk that one bears and the articles
one reads about camping look at it from a nega-
tive or a physical point of view. It would thus
appear that the purpose of the camp is to get the
children out of the city and away from its temp-
tations and heat, to build them up physically and
to give them a good time and proficiency in sports.

Most camps offer swimming, canoeing, rowing,
athletics, nature study, dra-
matics and crafts. To many
this is the program, but the
fundamental thing about the
camp is that it is a demon-
stration in communal living.
The best camps make “bud-
dies” of the children. A
friendly attitude and spirit
are far more essential to its
success and popularity than
any amount of equipment or
resources. To make a friend-

Dr. Curtis points out that the reader.
in order to have a true picture of the
situation. should keep constantly in mind
the fact that Washtenaw County is a
rural county' with many retired farmers
living in its cities and towns. Ann Arbor,
the largest .city, has only 30,000 people.
There are only two towns outside of Ann
Arbor that maintain playgrounds. Con-
ditions are entirely different from those
existing in a metropolitan district but the
findings of the study are very signifi-
cant for all interested in rural work.

ly world is the purpose of the moral law. The
camp may be an important step in that direction.
Sleeping, eating, working, singing and playing to-
gether all help. But such training requires a ses-
sion of at least six weeks.

The camp offers the great opportunity to learn
cooperation through its joint enterprises of work
and play. One must become a citizen of the camp
to enjoy it. Is not .this a logical preparation for
adult citizenship with its responsibilities later?

The camp also makes it possible for the de-
pendent child to escape from the apron strings,
for the spoiled child to be unspoiled, to learn to
stand on his own feet and be responsible for his
own acts.

These are higher values than a knowledge of
arithmetic. It is the specific training in which the
state and city are most interested. This Oppor-
tunity should be furnished to all children.

Apparently we are at the beginning of an age
of unprecedented leisure. There are two universal
preparations "‘for leisure time. They are many
friends and a love of the open. Neither of them
costs anything, but they mean far more to enjoy—-
ment than wealth. One of the best opportunities
for both of these is offered through the camp.

Trips

There were reports of “long trips” from 2,238
children which account for 12.465 days of travel
at 200 miles a day. These trips thus reached 47.5
per cent of the children and they account for 21.9
per cent of the time of the four activities. A de-
tailed study of this item at one of the schools in-
dicates that this time would be doubled if short
trips of from 25 to 50 miles had been included.
One eighth grade of '125 children covered 102,597
miles, the boys averaging 1,027 miles per indi-
vidual. Something over 90 per cent of the long
trips and close to 1001 per cent of the short ones
were by auto. As the aver-
age party on these trips was
given as 6.8 for the boys and
5.9 for the girls, this un-
' doubtedly represented in the

aggregate more recreation
than the other three items
combined.

The classical method of
spending a vacation in
Europe has always been tra-
vel. There is no summer of-
fering of America that seems

PLANNING THE S U M M E R V . ’1 CA TI ON 241

Courtesy Girl Scents

 

The young people of America may well tollow the example

to me'comparable to
the walking trips of
the youth movement
of Europe. There are, according to the last figures
I have seen, 3,600,000 members in the German
Hostels Association and somewhere between live
and six million members in Europe. The hostel is
the youth hotel, the place for spending the night.
Many of them are old castles or villas of the rich,
and some are disused military camps. The regu—
lar charge for lodging is seven cents and ten to
twenty cents for meals, though all offer oppor-
tunity for the walker to cook his own supper if
he wishes. It probably costs a German youth no
more to go on a two weeks’ walking trip than it
does to stay at home if he must pay for board and
room in both places. The railroads offer third
and fourth class fares and one-half rates to the
walkers if they need to take the trains.

Our mountain areas offer opportUnity for walk-
ing, but our country highways as a whole are too
much infested with automobiles for the walker to
feel safe or to enjoy his walk. There was only
one walking trip reported from the 4,71 I children.
Some live states have passed laws within the year
providing for pedestrian paths along certain high-
ways. This will help, but walking is never likely
to become popular in our agricultural communities.

There is a marvelous new possibility in the
travel held at our doors at this time due to the

ot the youth of other countries in devoting more vaca-
tion time to taking walking trips in the open country.

new highways that
have been developed
during the depres-
sion which now cross and recross every part of
the United States, while one to Mexico City is
promised by June and its extension to Panama
and even down the vast shore of South America
is surveyed with indications that its reality lies not
in. a very distant future. Many new cruises have
been developed to the Carribbean and the Paci-
fic, while airplane flights across both oceans seem
not unlikely during the year. It seems probable
that there may soon be airplane resorts in Green-
land and along the shore of the Arctic also.
Travel may show us nearly everything we read
about in books or papers in a more vivid way, and
it brings to our doors all other forms of recrea-
tion. Many people do not learn easily from the 'j
printed page but see and learn avidly from travel.
Travel may make us acquainted with historical

backgrounds, with economic and social conditions

throughout the United States. It should develop
a real appreciation of our great country and the
enterprises carried on by the government. It
should help one in choosing a profession and a
place of residence. It offers an almost necessary
basis for patriotism and intelligent voting. The
government should be as much interested in hav-
ing children know America as in their academic
training. It might well afford to furnish from its

242 PLANNING THE SUMMER VACATION

vast stores the oil and gas neces-
sary for such trips.

The great handicap to any in-
telligent travel in this country is
the lack of any rational directory
to points of interest such as may
be had for a penny almost any-
where in Europe. This survey has made out such
a directory for this county which has just been
printed. We have located 58 places, some of
which are of international interest, but most of
which are unknown to the oldest inhabitants.

Farms

At first thought a farm may not appear to be
much of a pleasure resort. It has always been
thought of as a place for work rather than play,
but an investigation carried on in two junior high
schools as to preferences for farms or camps
showed that a larger proportion of the children
wished to return to the farm than to the camp.

Farm visits are apparently much the largest
item in the summer program so far as the chil-
dren are concerned, as 1,170 children went to the
farms last summer for a period of 21,353 days
with an average stay of 18.2 days per child. Ac-
cording to these figures, 24.8 per cent of the chil-
dren, approximately one quarter, spent 37.5 per
cent of the time of the four activities on the
farms. This figure is, however, probably below
the actual facts. In making up our tables, if a
child said he spent the entire summer on the farm

In this graph is shown the percentage of
time given each of the four activities

 

4,7ll children of Ann Arbor
spend 56.970 twelve-hour days
in tour activities—trips, camps,
farms and playgrounds. The ag-
gregate time per pupil in these
activities is l2.| days.

his time was thrown out on the
supposition that he lived there
and it was not a vacation to him.
Later studies have shown that
this was seldom the case. The
child nearly always said he lived
on a; farm if that was the fact.

In an intensive study of one of the junior high
schools it was found that 202 out of 326 children
had spent 1,008 longer or shorter vacations on a
farm and that practically all of them wished to go
back every summer. Only seven of these children
paid anything. Most of them stayed with grand-
parents, uncles, aunts or friends. They reported
that they helped in the house, garden and on the
farm, that they fed the pigs and chickens, gath-
ered the eggs and picked the berries, that they
went fishing, swimming and rode horseback.
Nearly as many farm children came back to visit
them in the city. One hundred and twenty—five of
the children said that they had learned much of
value on the farm and 43 said it had helped them
in their social studies, science, mathematics and in
writing themes in school.

The farm stay actually cost less than nothing
as the parents saved their board and the children
often came back with presents from relatives.
They probably earned their way, judging from
their accounts of the work they did. The city must
buy its food at retail but the farm has it at a price
that is below wholesale. Girls of even ten may
help with the baby, the dishes, the sweeping, gath—
ering the eggs and picking the berries, and there
is a yet greater variety of things for the boys to
do. The children who were most helpful were
the ones who liked the farm best. Of the 326 chil-
dren there were only ten who said they did not
wish to go to the farm; of these six had never
been there and three had merely loafed on the
farm without taking an active part in the work.

'1.

  
   

Here we see the percentage of
children participating in the
types of activities surveyed

I
l
!

PLANNING THE SUMMER VACATION 243

One hundred and eighty-six of the children said
they could go to the farm next summer if they
wished. This is more than half of the entire
number, but it is undoubtedly too small a
number, as the question was asked whether they
might visit anyone on a farm “not more than fifty
miles away.” In the study of the high school it
was found that 47 out of 181 children who went
to farms went to farms in other states which were
scattered over the entire northern part of the
country.

If the conditions in this school are typical, it is
possible for the majority of the older children in
this area to visit farms without expense during
the summer. Such visits tend to hold families to-
gether and to keep country and city in sympathy.
Without such an experience it is difficult for one
to understand the conditions
through which America grew

up.
Playgrounds

The playgrounds were re-
ported attended by 1,206 chil-
dren more or less regularly.
These represent 25.6 per
cent of the children. On the
basis of a twelve hour day
their attendance amounted to
8,662 days. Converted into
minutes and divided by 66,
the number of days the play-
grounds were open, it pro-
vides one hour and eighteen
minutes a day for the 1,206 children who attend-

ed, or if the time is distributed over the 4,711
children who answered the questionnaire, it would
provide 20 minutes a day for all the children. In
two of the schools in the wealthier section of the
city it amounted to less than two minutes a day,
while in some it amounted to half an hour or
more.

This is no reflection on the system of Ann
Arbor. The city maintains six excellent play-
grounds, a goodly number for a city of 30,000,
and during the past summer it has had besides its
regular staff the assistance of a number of FERA’
workers. The system of Ann Arbor is above the
average. To get the attendance for the summer
we must multiply the 8,662 twelve hour days by
9.2, the number of 78 minute days there are in a
twelve hour day. This gives a total attendance of
79,790 which would be accepted anywhere as a

The Washtenaw County Directory which
Dr. Curtis mentions bears the sub-title
"Highways-Byways and Places of Inter-
est HistoricaI-Scenic-Educational-Recre-
ational." It is most attractivel printed
in colors and is profusely ilustrated.
In addition to the directory listing 58
places of interest, twelve sightseeing
drivesl twelve golf courses and seven
hikes, as well as bathing beaches and
canoe trips, there is a map which motor-
ists will find of great value. Copies may
be secured at the Business Office of the
University. Any group planning to issue
a publication of this type will find the
Washtenaw County Directory helpful.

good attendance for a city of the size of Ann
Arbor.

But even a 20 per cent increase in this record
would make no difference in the conclusion that
the playgrounds alone cannot offer a program to
the school population of a city as a whole during
the twelve hour day of the summer. Playgrounds
are very beneficial but they cannot minister to
children who do not come, or greatly help those
who only come occasionally. The influence of the
playground is not limited to the time spent there,
and perhaps its greatest service is in teaching bet-
ter games and better methods of play to be used
outside. Furthermore the child who has played
baseball or tennis for one hour and eighteen min-
utes has had exercise enough for one day.

Summary of Findings

If now we add together
the number of days given to
camps, trips, farms and play-
grounds, and divide by the
number of children, 4,711, it
gives us 12.1 days as the
average recreation time in
these four activities for the
children of the city. This
time varies from only a little
more than one day for the
rural children attending the
city schools to 24.6 days for
the children of the university
faculty. In different schools
it varies from a little over
seven days in one school to 21 days in the uni-
versity high and junior high. For the city in gen-
eral the average of the boys is nearly 30 per cent
higher than that of the girls. The number at-
tending camps and taking trips increases with
financial status, while the playground attendance
decreases. The percentage going to the farms
varies but little in the different schools. All of
these figures are lower than they should be as
children never remember all that they have done.
Putting these facts into graphic form we get the
results shown on the accompanying graphs.

Possible Services of the School

It should be reasonably evident without com-
ment that no city can think of providing a pro-
gram for its school children through any one of
the activities mentioned. The effective day of the
child during the summer is not less than twelve

244

hours. On that basis a summer vacation of twelve
weeks yields 1,008 hours as contrasted with 000
hours of a 36 week school year of five day weeks
and five hour days. ‘There are two kinds of edu-
cation, one of which consists of the storing away
of knowledge like grain in a bin. At its best it
produces a savant. There is another kind which
consists in learning to do things and to know peo-
ple. This is the type of education that makes the
skilled workman, the professional man and the
politician. _ _

Our opportunity of training in the active and
social side of life comes in a large measure in the
summer vacation, and in this development the
four activities outlined play an important part. All
the activities are educational and in their develop-
ment the school may take a forward step.

It is possible that camps may be assigned to
school systems if desired in the new areas now
being acquired and developed by the National
Park Service. Many school systems already take
children to see points of interest that are near by
and some that are distant. Why should we not
put two weeks of travel into the program for each
year from the sixth grade on?

Every school should own a bus. The Boy .

Scouts from Ann Arbor have taken three long
trips this past summer running around 1,700 miles
each and occupying two weeks. They carried their
own tents and cooked their own meals, and it cost
them between $5.00 and $6.00 a week for all ex,—
penses except the salary for the scoutmaster.
General Motors states that a bus empty will make
ten miles on a gallon of gas and loaded with 35
children it will make nine and a half, that it will
cost less than' a third of a cent a mile per child for
them to see the country in this way. Now if the
high school costs $75 per child for tuition and it
costs practically about $3.00 for board and inci-
dentals of a child at home, to spend $5.00 a week
to see America would be about what it is now
costing to keep them in school.

I should like to suggest seven trips for this pro—
gram: One to historic New England with its col-
leges, 'mountains and return by Niagara Falls; a
second to New York, the Atlantic shore of New
Jersey, Philadelphia, Washington, historic Vir-
ginia and a return through the Tennessee Valley;
a third to the gulf coast; a fourth along the Mis—
sissippi Valley, possibly as far as Mexico City, to
include Santa Fe and Taos on return; a fifth to
our national parks of the West; a sixth to the
Columbia Valley, Washington and Oregon, and

PLANNING THE SUMMER VACATION

the seventh to California, Arizona and the Grand
Canyon. One of my friends covered this western
trip last summer with a Chevrolet, a caravan
trailer and a party of seven. The entire cost was
a little under $10.00 per week for each.

The travel of youth has been made cheap in
Europe by the hostels. \Ve have hundreds of
CCC camps many of which must soon be aban-
doned, and the government is now building a vast
series of camps on the land being retired from

agriculture. The government should be willing to '

promote the seeing of America by school children
in any way that is normally possible.

The choice of spending the summer on the
farm is already here for vast numbers of children.
but it may be that we need also farm boarding
houses like the dude ranches in parts of the West.
Farm people can afford to board children cheaper
than anyone else if they have the room.

It would seem to me also that there is a place
in America for the unior agricultural school simi—
lar to those in Denmark and in Russia, which
might be the summer session of our rural consoli-
dated schools. This would imply that the school
should have a large farm in connection and either
a dormitory or a place where the children could
camp for the summer. A program of a half day
in practical agriculture with a half day in scouting
and sports should make an excellent summer pro—
gram for city children at very slight eXpense.

Planning for Leisure

If the working week is to be reduced to thirty
or thirty-five hours, our children are going to have
a longer day at their studies than their parents at
their jobs, also in all probability, quite as much
anxiety. If one is to spend his work time in tend-
ing an automatic machine and putting bolts
through holes, there is not much that the school
can teach that will help. Henry Ford says there
are 40,000 men in his factory that gain their full
technical skill in one day. The art of living is not
so simple. To prepare for this new leisure, the
school should teach all children to swim and dance
and sing and to play tennis and volley ball and
softball, but srill more, it should teach them to
plan for their leisure time.

The schools may not be in a position to take
over the camps, travel, and other activities
enumerated, to administer, but they surely must
hold it a part of their obligation to help children
organize their summers. With this objective in

(Continued on page 272)

i
i

 

Chicago Pioneers on New Frontiers

HE RECREATION CON-
T GRESS differs f r om

many of the profes-
sional conventions in that
it welcomes workers in the
field of community recre—
ation who have not yet
reached the salary brack-
ets which permit them to
disregard expenses. The
registration fee is nom-
inal, the convention does
not feature expensive ban-
quets or social affairs, and
arrangements are always
made with the host' hotel
to provide rooms at mini-
mum cost. The Congress
management gives much
thought to so planning the
event that workers whose
income is limited need not
go beyond the limits of a
modest income in order to
enjoy the benefits of at-
tendance, nor feel embar-
rassed by the fact that they
must" carefully watch ex—
penses during the Con-
gress itself.

When Chicago proposed
bringing this year’s Rec-
recreation Congress to the
mid-west, Robert  Dun-
ham, President of the Chi-
cago Park District, played
an exceedingly .vital part
in the financial arrange-
ments which have made

the Congress possible. His calm and (lispassion-

By V. K. BROWN

 

Robert J. Dunham. President of the Chi-

cago Park District, is a nationally known.
successful business executive now retired
and devoting his life to public service.
Widely known also as the man who has ad-
ministered the lllinois Emergency Relief
organization for the past few years. Presi-
dent Dunham will not be an utter stranger
to Congress delegates. Many will learn
for the first timeI however. of his keen in-
terest in. and authoritative knowledge of.
the broad subject of recreation in modern
community life. No man knows better than
does he that pioneering now must be on
new frontiers. and that the rugged indi-
vidualist no longer can take his axe and go
beyond the last outpost to hew his cabin
out of the old-time wilderness.

leisure of this city in our
newly reorganized Park
District his immediate per-i
ception of the goals to—
ward which we have been
striving has never failed.

New Goals

They have been new
goals. As I pointed out in
an article in the July issue
of RECREATION, the’ serv-
ice of our recreation de-
partment thirty years ago
was a service to the idle
hour; we direct our pre-
sent service to the idle
half day. Our thought
then was of an offset to
the tensions and the mo-
notony of hours, largely

occupied by work or busi-

ness. Now we are think-
ing of life as an aim in
'itself, preparation for, and
enjoyment of it, to be pur—
sued when released from
the ordered economy of
work and sleep, with only
intervals of play, and
plunged into the economy
where we must ourselves
organize half of our lives ‘
in leisure. Circumstances,
and the job, thirty years
ago, operated many of the
controls which governed
us; circumstances appear
now, to be no longer mak-

ing our decisions and hewing our character for

ate faith in recreation is the sane and observant us. We dealt with youth in our park and play-

attitude of a man who expects progress to come
through the plodding tread of the masses march-
ing toward higher levels and not by the exertion
of any tugging efforts applied to the boot straps
of society. In all of our planning .to serve the

ground institutions thirty years ago; we deal with
a new and different youth today. Play had mean—
ings then; it now has different and added mean-
ings. Sports, games, and dances, constituted then
our major relaxations; now we have suddenly

245

246 i '

awakened to the thought
that while a gymnasium
class, or a swim, a game
of golf, or baseball, ‘or
softball, may be an ade-
quate answer to the needs
of the idle hour, they do
not constitute an answer
to the needs of a half day
of leisure. The adult gen—
eration of that time exhausted its imagination in
building the machine ; the rising generation of to-
day finds the machine already built, and ready
to hand, and its imagination starts where the older
generation’s imagination is leaving off. My gen-
eration built the motor car. It took the mechani—
cal genius of forty years to do it. My ten year
old son, however, was cradled in the family auto-
mobile; he went to sleep to the hum of the vacuum
sweeper, and he never saw an ice box. Appli-
ances are meeting his needs, and his adventures
differ from mine as do the devicesof the home.
I learned to pitch- by trial and error; he goes to
see the film “Play Ball” and the slow motion
picture analyzes every element of the game for
him. Yet he needs his personal problems with
which to wrestle, just as he must have his in-
dividual accomplishments and masteries.

Two observations have seemed to us funda-
mental in planning our new program of service
adapted to our present necessities. The first is
that we think we may expect people to use this
enlarged leisure in acquainting themselves with a
larger variety of subjects. We think that the
future will find people interested in many more
things than did the past. We expect that people
will seek variety by turning to a more varied set
of subjects for attention. Our second thought is
that‘finding things of especial interest, we shall
have time now to carry our inquiries deeper into
the subject of our particular attention—that we
shall do more eXperimenting, more studying; that
our hobbies will be carried to much greater de-
gree of specialization, and that out of this larger
devotion of time and attention there will come
more complete mastery of the subject, so that the
amateur photographer, for example, is not to be
expected to content himself merely with a large
number or variety of pictures. 'We think we can
confidently expect of him that there will be more
of art in his pictures, that he will go into
composition and arrangement, into values of
lights and shadows, into color photography,

In the July issue tot RECREATION Mr. Brown.

who is Chief of the Recreation Division'
Chicago Park District' told of the holding of
the first Recreation Congress in Chicago in
I‘il07l and gave us the background of the
recreation movement in that city. In this issue
Mr. Brown outlines the new goals toward
which Chicago is working' and describes the
new techniques operating in an expanding
and changing program.

CHICAGO PIONEERS ON NEW FRONTIERS

and make of his hobby

.an art

Encouraging Recrea-

tional Self-Sufficiency

Conceiving, then, that
p u bl i c recreation must
cover a much wider range
of interests, and that it
_ must encourage and un-
derstand advanced specialization, we were im-
mediately confronted with the very practical
necessities of a retrenchment budget. M anifestly,
we could not multiply indefinitely our overhead
of leadership and instruction. We could not pro-
vide, in the face of universal leisure, intimate per-
sonal attendance upon every individual, at public
expense. And, if we should take advantage of the
wealth of personnel available for the moment
through \Vork Relief, we should only defeat our
ultimate purpose by accustoming the public to a
sort of valet service in recreation impossible of
permanent maintenance. \Vhen personally con-
ducted recreation service ends with the resump-
tion of normal conditions, we should then dis-
cover that we have not contributed to recreational
self-sufficiency in our communities, but rather to
a sort of recreational dependency, making neces-
sary a fresh start and a complete gollapse of the
program to which our public have become ac-
customed.

As President of the Board of Park Commis—
sioners. Mr. Dunham has helped us in clearly see-
ing this danger, and while he supported, some-
times at sacrifice of other elements of the park
system, an adequate budget, even a generous bud-
get, for the Recreation Division, he insisted that
the new services and the expansions of program
be put on a permanent footing as to cost and per-
sonnel; and that the methods of promotion and
organization emphasize club groups rather than
classes, co-workers ‘'and consultants rather than
individual teachers, adventure rather than instruc-
tion, and that self-help and cooperative group
action be the keynote throughout.

One of the best illustrations of this new tech-
nique is the deve10pment of our photographic
clubs. we have no paid instructor in photography.
We do have one of our workers with boys’ groups
in our crafts program—a former member of a
spontaneously developed photographic club of
some years’ standing in one of our parks, who has
advised community grOups interested in photog-

CHICAGO PIONEERS ON NEW FRONTIERS 247

raphy on the experience of his own former club,
and has assisted them to organize, to develop pro—
grams, to equip their own dark rooms and set up
the machinery for independent existence. \Vith-
out any cost to the taxpayer, a number of vigor-
ous photography clubs have come into being.
From their product in art photography a picture
is selected monthly, representative of the best
work done during the month among these various
groups. One of the most interesting is the minia-
ture camera club, deve10ping enlargements. from
thumb-nail photOgraphs. So vigorous is the life
of these organizations and so enthusiastic their
members that we feel they are an established fea-
ture of the city, certain to continue and develop.
For purposes of distinguishing the specialties
of women and“ girls from those of men and boys,
we have styled our boys’ constructive enterprises
“Crafts,” our girls’ and women’s, “Art Crafts.”
With a limited group of specialized and expert
co-workers, women’s and girls’ Art Crafts clubs
are now engaged in projects such as weaving,
pottery, fabric decoration, etc., numbering more
than sixty separate and distinct types of activity.
and the men’s and boys’
Crafts groups are engag-
ed in an even larger num-
ber of distinct produc—
tive enterprises. There
are kite clubs, model air-
plane clubs, boy mechan-
ics m a ki n g niiniattire
metal engines — accord-
ing to the last report of
which activity more than
250 lads have built small
engines since the first of
this year, every one of -
which was successfully
operated as an actually
performing mechanism.
The dramatics director
has made more use of
relief personnel than any
of our other specialists,

Chicago Junior Yachfsmen
have fheir own shipbuild-
ing indusfry in fhe Park
Disiricf's Craffs program

setting up his scenery and costume producing
shops with work relief operators, transcribing
plays and music, developing troupes, and using
some professional talent on relief to provide high
class dramatic entertainment in the fieldhouses of
the Park System. Here, too, however, the em-
phasis has been placed on the use of community
talent and the encouragement of self-maintaining
dramatic organizations.

The Choral Directors Guild of Chicago, an or-
ganization of thousands of superior musicians of
the city, donated their services recently in produc—
ing for the first time in America Handel’s great
oratorio “Theodora.” It \ *as staged 0n the classic
southern face of the great Field Museum struc- '
ture in Grant Park, in the heart of the city, other
volunteers dramatizing the action, while selected
artists'of the dance contributed their services as
a magnificent ballet. If any proof were needed
that people now having time to devote to their
special enthusiasms will actually carry their hob-
bies into such refinement as to make arts of them,
and that out of this movement toward higher

(Continued on {wage 273)

 

Oklahoma City’s Weekly Community Programs

IGHTEEN schools of

dance, drama and

music and seven con-
cert bands are cooperating
with the park and play-
ground officials of Okla—
homa City, Oklahoma. in
making possible the varied
programs which from week
to week are attracting thou—
sands of people to the parks
to enjoy community nights.
In addition, hundreds of
singers, dancers and musi—
cians representing no definite organizations are
contributing their services.

500,000.

The Procedure

In planning for the programs all available talent '

is listed in the recreation ofhce under the direction
of a playground program director. This director
meets with the volunteer entertainers once a
month to arrange and schedule programs for four
weeks in advance. (These entertainers are refer-
red to as “guest talent” because they go from park
to park as guest performers. The term “local tal-
ent” includes the entertainers enlisted and trained
by the playground supervisors at each park.)

The guest talent is scheduled by the program
director for only part of each program every
week, giving plenty of opportunity for local talent.
For example, community singing will open a pro-
gram followed by alternate numbers from a con-
cert band and from dance and dramatic schools.
Local talent, consisting of short plays, dances,
songs, handcraft and First aid exhibitions, is intro-
duced into the program at appropriate times. No
program runs more than an hour. Community
Singing has become so popular that special nights
have been set aside for it with the Recreation De-
partment furnishing competent accompanists and
song leaders.

Two special programs are now serving for their
second year with the ,Park Department with re—
:peated success. One is~the girls’ drill team of the

 Modern -\Voodme1i ofy‘America which has won

state and national chanipionships. The other is a

l
'248

Last year the Park and Recreation
Department of Oklahoma City' con-
ducted a system of weekly commu-
nity programs which were enjoyed by

more than 300,000 people. Three

hundred programs were presented in

the parks last summer. This year's
attendance is expected to exceed

In this article Grant W.
DanielsonI recreation director of the
Department. tells of some of the
methods which were found successful.

 

miniature circus arranged
and conducted by the city
200 keeper, a former circus
performer and an'mal train-
er. Known as Uncle Leo
to practically every child in
Oklahoma by virtue of his
weekly radio broadcasts for
a number of years, the zoo
keeper is one of the most
popular characters in the
State. His programs invari—
ably draw overflow crowds.
Besides clowns. magicians
and acrobats, Uncle Leo brings to the park many
smaller animals such as hear and lion cubs to show
the children who have found it impossible to go
to the 200.

The system of handling these programs from
the executive standpoint has been perfected by
several years of experience. T wenty-one parks
have programs at least once a week. These enter-
tainments are scattered throughout the week, and
care is taken to see that programs falling on the
same night are distributed over the city and are
not conducted in the same neighborhood.

Seven large amphitheaters with natural rock
stages and beautiful terraced lawns which serve
for seats are used in presenting some of the pro-
grams. Ranging in seating capacity from 2,500
to 14,000, these amphitheaters are located in vari—
ous parks of the city. At other parks lighted tennis
courts are used for stages with high terraces ris-
ing from the sides of the courts to supply the
turf on which the audience sits. Still other parks
which have none of the natural advantages offered
drain their wading pbols which are of variable
depth and place park benches in rows in the pools.
This gives the effect of a theater seating arrange-
ment. A movable platform is placed on the edge
of each pool in the deep end.

The Department has eliminated the responsi-
bility of “props” for guest talent by asking the
entertainers to furnish their own properties ex-
clusive of pianos, platforms and public address
systems. The platforms are of the movable type

(C'ontin ed on page 274)

Nation-Wide Recreation

signed to it under the Emer-

gency Relief Act as "passed
by the Congress, it was neces-
sary for the Federal Relief Administration to con-
cern itself with the problem of recreation. Ade-
quate relief, it was quickly realized, has become
inextricably meshed in this problem. Millions of
competent and willing workers, upstanding citi-
zens, were jobless and unable to provide through
their own efforts for their families, their children.
But subsistence alone—food, clothing, shelter——
was not enough.

To FULFILL the function as—

Importance of Recreation

The loss of gainful employment was immedi—
ately reflected in every aspect of the life of the
American worker and his dependents. No longer
the necessary provider, he ceased to be the nucleus
of family life, with the result that there was a
marked breaking-down of the sanctions and struc-
ture of the American home. These functional
changes in the orderly routine of family life, even
apart from the major one of human want and
destitution, threatened, and still threaten, pro-
found psychological and physical dislocations in
the lives of both the individual and the State.

\Vhile recreation was generally recognized as
an efficient tool to combat the demoralizing effect
of the depression, the recognition was at first
more academic than factual. The Federal Gov-
ernment, governments of the several states, local,
municipal and county governments, and school
districts throughout the coun—
try, admitted their responsi-
bility. Nevertheless, as the
need grew greater and the
numbers of unemployed in-
creased, there was a decrease
in recreational facilities of-
fered by the sectional gov-
ernments—a decrease not
only in proportion to demand,
but in the number of “plants”
actually operating. This, of
course, was the result of bud-

getary difficulties. As the de- values involved.

By JACOB BAKER
Assistant Administrator
Works Progress Administration

Readers of RECREATION who scanned

even briefly the May issue of the maga-
zine containing the Year Book, must
have been impressed with the statistics
given in the section of the report deal-
ing with Emergency Relief Servicel and
with statements telling of the extent of
the work being done through ERA. 50
significant have these
been that we welcome the opportunity‘
to present to our readers a first-hand
report from the Government giving the
background of the proiect and some of
the achievements in terms of the human

pression threw men out of em-
ployment, it cut down on the
various state and municipal bud—
gets. And often the first to go
under the cuts were the recreational programs.

Budget restrictions not only prohibited exten—
sion of recreational means demanded by the
vastly increased unemployment but it clamped
down on existing facilities. For example, in the
county of Los Angeles were 268 playgrounds,
only 64 of which were equipped and staffed to
operate. Similar conditions existed in countless
localities throughout the country.

It was not until the third year of the depression
that the Federal Emergency Relief Administra-
tion was created. It promptly realized the serious-
ness of the recreation problem and began organ-

izing measures for its relief. Demands were be-

ing made upon it from all sections of the country.
At first these demands came from thickly .pOpu-
lated urban centers; later, and with equal urgency,
came the volume of appeals from rural districts.
In its responses to the earlier demands there is
evidence that the Federal Government looked
upon them as a means of giving immediate work-
relief, rather than the first move toward assum—
ing its share of responsibility for a nation—wide
recreation program.

The primary purpose, therefore, of the FERA,
in stepping into local recreation, was to give em-
ployment to needy persons. Then came recogni-
tion of their right to public recreation, recogni-
tion of the fact that all the people—not merely
the select few with means,
but all, all types and classes
——have the right to use their
leisure time advantageously
through facilities and oppor-
tunities created by public
agencies.

Many New Recreation
Facilities Provided

developments

In its approach to recrea-

tion as a work-relief measure,
the FERA advanced on two
fronts: (I) the construction

249

250 NATION-WIDE RECREATION

 

of plant, and (2) the
development of recre-
ational activities. The
need for the first was obvious; and immediately
a great number of work projects were got under
way for the building of recreation facilities.

So intensive was the program carried on that
today forty-seven states, Hawaii,and Puerto Rico,
report permanent monuments to its progress.. A
total of some twenty thousand construction pro—
jects are marked “complete” on the lists; running
from 'the 131 stadiums, through the 532 new
community service centers down to the last chil-
dren’s wading pool built, no facility necessary to
public recreation has been overlooked. Nor has
any section of the country been neglected. Spot—
ting the map from coast to coast, the develop-
ment has been uniform:

St. Augustine, Florida—a new community ser-
vice center. Twenty—one states now report com—
munity service centers which are carrying on two
or more recreational activities.

Salem, Massachusetts—Cat Cove Beach and
swimming pool development, one of the five hun-
dred odd beaches and pools that have been made
available throngh work-relief projects.

New Hampshire—a series of hostels, trails,

Such swimming pools as this one at CharlestonI South
Carolina. have been built in all parts of the country

summer c am p sites,

throughout the State.
Other states, stimu-
lated by the \Vorks Progress Administration and
the new Youth Administration, are developing

this facility for vacation-recreation at a minimum
cost

Bergen, New jersey—a large stadium in Vet-

- eran’s Park, one of the two hundred stadiums to

the' credit of work-relief projects.

Illinois—Pere Marquette State Park, one of the
numerous state parks extended and improved.

Sioux City, Iowa—a beautiful Beaux-Arts prize
design orchestra shell. New orchestra and band
shells may be found from \Yashington, D. C. to
San Diego, Cali fornia,‘L but the one in Sioux City
is the masterpiece.

Safford, Arizona—a brand new municipal park
complete in every detail and conforming to the
latest approved ideas on park service. The tract
used for this proect had been a county poor farm
——a social “wasteland” now made useful to
humanity.

San Francisco, California—the old Ingleside
Prison remodelled and the 13 acre site converted
into a recreation center with swimming pools, a

NATION-WIDE RECREATION 251

theater, gymnasium, club rooms, and an athletic
field. '

And so on, through a great variety of projects,
each one the work of relief labor, and a perma-
nent contribution to the social well-being of the
country.

Incidental to the main objective, a side excur-
sion into public hygiene may be here noted. In
many crowded cities play streets were cleaned up

i and vacant lots and dump heaps were cleared out.

Chicago alone reports sixty vacant lots cleared of
their litter and converted into temporary play-
grounds. In each instance this served as an in-
centive to a general neighborhood clean-up.

This, of course, is by no means the end of the
story. In following the lead of its predecessor, the
WPA acknowledges that recreation plant con—
struction meets the practical principles of emer-
gency public employment stated by President
Roosevelt in his message of January 4th, 1935 to
the Congress of the United States: Recreational
work-relief projects are flexible, and can offer em-
ployment where there is the greatest need; most
of their expenditures go directly to local unem-
ployed labor; they 'do not compete with private en-
terprise, and, most important of all, they make
permanent contributions to better living condi—
tions and increased opportunities for more abund-
ant living.

In spite of the fact that the construction has
been so vast, it still must be admitted that it has
not met all needs. However, the rate of construc-
tion marks a tremendous speeding-up in this field ;
it is estimated that FERA has advanced the con-
struction of recreation facilities in this country by
at least twenty-five years.

Recreational Leadership Increased

\Vhile the construction work employed a vast
array of engineers, draftsmen, mechanics and
other labor in the building trades, it failed to pro-
vide proportional work—relief for the large army
of unemployed white-collar workers. It was to
fill in this void that the service recreation pro-
jects were developed. They were placed on equal
footing with construction, on
the ground that they were of
equal permanent social value.
Also, it was observed that rec-
reational service paid for itself
in the positive values created
for society, and in the reduc-

tion which can be reasonably to the Congress.

"The facilities most urgently needed
at present are those facilities which
pay for themselves. not in direct cash
return, but in recognized social and
citizenship values created, and in the
reduction of other taxation costs."—
President Roosevelt in a message

expected in tax costs for delinquency, ill health
and accidents.

In its scope the recreational service program of
the FERA went.far beyond the construction of
projects. It was not restricted to the physical
plant. It went beyond that; it went out on the
streets, and into the homes. It touched on every
phase of human life—every age, type, and class
of people living in this country. It took up the
task of supplementing existing facilities and serv-
ices in places where they already existed; it ex-
panded old services and created new. Where there
was an established program, it diversified the ac—
tivities under it. Where there was no program, it
supplied the stimulus and the initiating force for
the inauguration of one. And it acted as a clear-
ing house for information as to technique and
methods, throughout the country.

These functions of the FERA on the recrea-
tion service side will now be taken over by the
new Works Progress Administration, which can
be expected to extend and broaden them, partly in
cooperation with the new Youth Administration,
but more intensively through its Professional and
Service Projects Division.

The value of the recreation service projects to
society in general is two-fold: it gives employ—
ment to thousands as playground directors, in—
structors in sports, leaders of groups, supervisors
of camps, specialized teachers, museum workers,
actors, musicians, and artists; and in turn,through
their employment millions of others find occupa-
tion, education, and recreation.

Fundamental to the development of the recre-
ation programs was the need for well-trained per-
sonnel. As an Arizona report points out. “The
poorest camp from a physical standpoint, with the
‘right’ personnel can outdo an elaborately equip-
ped one lacking in this respect.” For the problem
of leisure activities is one of human psychology,
of handling people, not machines—it is a highly
sensitive and subtle task. “Nothing is more dif-
ficult for man than to know what to do with his
leisure,” wrote Goethe. And- he who would teach
his fellows this difficult art must be particularly
well endowed.

It speaks volumes for the
quality of those on the relief
rolls that so little difficulty was
encountered in developing
competent leadership. With a
little schooling many high
type leaders have been de-

252 NATION-WIDE RECREATION

veloped. The supply, of course, is not yet stepped
up to the rapidly growing demand. But by means
of training institutions, manuals of instruction and
regional conferences, it is hoped that the defici-
ency will be shortly wiped out. In this connection
it is noteworthy that various state Emergency
Relief Administrations, in cooperation with or-
ganizations such as the National Recreation As-
sociation, have trained a fairly adequate body of
leaders.

The greatest difficulty in this held lies in de—
veloping leadership in rural areas. A few of the
States, notably North Dakota and Alabama, have
what amounts to a traveling training school for
recreation leaders; periodically it moves from
county to county, giving
a series of short but com-
prehensive c o u r s e s in
each.

The effect of the large
inflow of noun-academic
personnel into the field
of recreation, viewing it
even from the purely pro-
fessional angle, has been
of great vaIUe. The new
leaders have been singu—
larly effective in extend-
ing recreational activities.
They have brought vital
blood, a fresh point of
view. Coming more di-
rectly from the pe0ple, from
the relief rolls, theirs is a
first hand knowledge of the
condition of their fellows,
and of the needs of the moment. The new lead-
ers, on the whole, have been quick to devise activi-
ties to meet.the changing circumstances, the im-
mediate demands.

Tied up as it is with work—relief allotments to
a given locality, the personnel of a recreation serv-
ice project in that locality is bound to be repre—
Sentative. It must, at least, know its neighborhood.
Only a highly sensitive and responsive neighbor-
liness could have devised many of the noteworthy
recreation service activities.

It has been found, for example, that hobby
clubs have a social emphasis which has made
them more appealing than didactic classes. Put
on the social and play basis of a hobby pastime, a
group of 'people may be'led to constructive and
educational use of their_ leisure without realizing

 

The very young and the very old find
a common interest in the Santa Claus
toy repair proiect in San Francisco

it. But the hobby must be devised to fit the neigh-
borhood, the specific need. A number of the most
successful 'handcraft developments have originat—
ed in this manner. Again, a neighborhood may
have a peculiar sectarian slant, a foreign racial
background, a limited educational standard, or a
certain skilled type of workers may predominate;
all these are factors which a competent personnel
will understand and reflect. The play guidance of
Negro youth in Mississippi varies from that of the
Negroes in New York’s Harlem. A “rugger”
game organizer for \Velsh tin-workers in a mill
town in northwestern Pennsylvania offers them-
more recreation than would an expert baseball
coach. The leader who proposed the peasant
paper-cutting craft pro-
ject so successfully in a
section of Chicago had to
know something of the
aptitude of his Polish
neighbors.

Studies of Juvenile
Delinquency

\V hie r e the training
- and competence of lead—
ers and play instructors
becomes of first import—
ance is in the field of ju—
venile delinquency. The
play-schooling of youth
is of vital concern in
modern life, particularly dur-
ing the present crisis. A num-
ber of states developed pro-
jects to survey the problem.
One of them, New Jersey, reported that the rec—
ords of Juvenile Courts showed that 90 percent
of the delinquents got into trouble.after 3 P. M.;
the other ten percent were truants. A study of
733 paroled from Annadale Reformatory revealed
that out of I 36 who used their leisure time con-
structively only one failed on parole; while of the
rest, one in five failed. An exhaustive survey in
California practically repeats these figures. But
there is noted a reduction of from 50 to 85 per
cent in delinquency cases under active playground
programs; the range being due to variations in
competency of leadership, and cultural standards
of home life.
A few of the surveys checked 0n the reper—
cussion from children in directed recreation ac-

(Contimred on page 275)

l
r

 

A State Recreation Proiect

HAT RECREATION has in the last

few years become a recognized

public necessity is well shown
in the report of the National Re-
source Board to the President. That
report states, “The study of a par-
ticular problem may involve several
other problems and the development
of almost any sound project requires the study of
uses of land—for agriculture and irrigation, in-
dustry and commerce, water storage, forestry,
recreation and the conservation of wild life. The
final test of the value of a proposed plan is not
found in land, or water, or in dollars and cents
alone, but in people. Hence it is that the commit—
tee lists recreation, not as a luxury but as a
necessity.”

To help communities provide wholesome rec—
reation for children and adults and .to meet the
needs of the new day in a way which will make
for citizenship and for community morale should
be the purpose of all recreation projects.

The new day of more leisure time has seen the
birth of a desire on the part of people for more
of the good things of life, more opportunity for
self-expression and participation in community
activities which go toward making a more abun-
dant life. This desire on the part of people must
be squarely faced by government administrators
as the very principle which democracy embodies,
namely'the establishment of governmental agen—
cies which will provide the organization and ad-
ministration of public necessities.

The trend toward the shorter working day and
week, as it affects the adult, seems to be a perma-
nent one. At the same time modern life'provides
infinite opportunity for choices both good and
bad on the part of the average man. Our- present
government finds itself confronted with the prob—
lem of providing facilities which will enable the
masses to live good lives as well as earn good liv-
ings. Only recently have people begun to realize
that education which trains men for work and not
for play is a job only half done. Turning people
loose on the world with no skills or interest for
the occupation of leisure time is one of the most
serious problems facing civilization today. One

The State Recreation Project in California IS
sponsored by the State Department of Education.
Raymond Hoyt, formerly of the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department, until very re-
cently was the Supervisor of the Proiect.

need only to turn to our great crime problems and
to realize that the average age of our most desper-
ate criminals is twenty years.

It is plainly of immeasurable importance that
this new leisure, as it is so often called, be directed
wisely. Proper use of leisure demands proper
places and opportunities for the utilization of this
free time.

In our large metropolitan areas public recrea-
tion has been administered by governmental agen-
cies. This has been possible because of the ability
to finance a program through public taxation.
Small communities and rural areas are less fortu-
nate in that they do not have the necessary finan—
cial aid.

The ERA’s Opportunity

Through the use of Federal and State Relief
funds the establishment of community recreation
in smaller communities and rural areas has been
made possible. The purpose of this work in most
instances has been to assist communities in the
establishment and promotion of programs, the
construction of facilities and the fostering of
community culture and social life.

A most unusual opportunity for the develop-
ment of the field of recreation throughout the
country has appeared in the use of Federal Funds
under the Federal government’s relief programs.
Many fine and outstanding things have been done.
Facilities such as playgrounds, community centers,
parks, golf courses, swimming pools, community
theaters, gymnasiums and camps have been con-
structed. All of these are permanent and lasting
improvements to communities and will benefit not
only those who are at present able to use them but
also those who will come later.

Another outstanding contribution to the recre—
ation movement has been the development of the

253

254 A STATE RECREATION PROJECT

leadership program for both children and adults.
A great many states have organized state-wide
emergency recreation projects which have de-
veloped in a number of different ways. In those
municipalities and communities where recreation
already exists as a public function, the program
has been expanded to meet the needs of a vast
increase in demand. In other places where no
previous recreation existed, community recreation
programs have been initiated. Such activities as
sports and athletics, community dramatics, music,
arts and crafts, have been carried on under this
work.

During the last two years communities through-
out California have benefited greatly from the use
of cheral Funds. This work has been made pos-
sible through the work of the State Emergency
Relief Administration. This work has consisted
not only of the construction of facilities but also
the use of workers who have been assigned to
recreation projects and programs.

The work is carried on by a stafiC of recreation
workers which consists of a state supervisor and
two assistants, one located in the north and one in
the south. When expansion is necessary area di-
rectors will be appointed who will keep the state
project in closer touch with each local community.
The administrators of the state recreation project
work in an advisory capacity to the authorized
agencies who desire to submit local recreation pro-
jects. This is for the purpose of coordinating the
local emergency educational and recreational pro-
grams, as well as advising for the wisest program.
After the project has been reviewed and is re-
commended by the state recreation project super-
visor it is submitted by the authorized public
agency to the local county Relief Administration
where the established regular procedure for pro-
jects prevails.

The Procedure

Experience has shown that the most effective
method in California of establishing emergency
recreation has proved to be the establishment of
civic commissions or recreation boards of from
five to seven members in each local community
which desires a project. This group includes rep-
resentatives from the City Council, Board~of Edu-
cation and other municipal departments and civic
organizations, including both men and women.
The members of this commission are in most in-
stances outstanding citizens of the community.
The work of this group has been to outline a

program for the community, to raise funds for
equipment, to appoint a man to supervise the
project and to promote the program of facilities
and activities. The commission is the organiza-
tion that makes application, sometimes through
the City Council, the School Department or the
County .Board of Supervisors. This application
is made through the local County SERA director
and his staff. The project usually consists of the
appointment of people who have had some ex—
perience in recreation work to such jobs as play-
ground supervisors, games leaders, music leaders,
drama organizers and leaders, leaders in hobbies
and crafts such as leather craft and woodcraft,
boys’ and girls’ club leaders, camp leaders and
sports leaders. Other workers on these projects
include caretakers, maintenance men, nurses, lea-
ther repair men and others.

When these people are assigned to a project
they‘are given a training course, in most cases,
Under the supervision of the local project super-
visor. At the conclusion of this training work they
are assigned to the jobs that best suit their capa-
bilities. Many of the larger counties have organ-
ized the recreation under a county-wide project
sponsored by the County Board of Supervisors
and supervised by a county recreation supervisor
with an assistant supervisor over each large local
program. The latter plan has proven quite suc-

cessful as it provides a closer coordination be- .

tween the SERA administrators and the project
sponsors and also makes possible a more efficient
method of supervision and training.

The outlook for the expansion of this work is
very promising. It has been the purpose of those
promoting this work to build for permanency.

Testimony to the value of ERA leadership
comes from a newspaper in Ocean County, New
Jersey. “Few Ocean Countians or even local relief
people realize just what this leisure time move-
ment means to many people. When men and
women are willing to take oil stoves from great
distances to heat up a hall; when the men are will-
ing to cart a borrowed piano for each and every
occasion; when men and women and boys and
girls look forward from one month to another to
these gatherings, you begin to see their true value
and real meaning. It is quite impossible to meas-
ure the length, depth and breadth of the service
rendered by the leisure time folks who kept every
schedule, blizzard or no blizzard, during these de-
moralizing days of enforced or partial idleness.”

The Dance in the Recreation Program

By
GEORGE SYME, JR.

IIILE MUCH has been said and published
about athletics, games, music, handcraft

and similar activities, the dance as a part
of the recreation program has not in the past been
stressed as many feel its values merit. During the
past few years, however, dancing has begun to
receive an increasing amount of attention in the
fields of physical education and recreation, though
some difference of Opinion has arisen regarding
the‘e'ducational and recreative values of dancing,
the desirability of certain types of dancing, and
the advisability of'recreation departments assum-
ing responsibility for givinginstruction in dancing.

What place, then, shall dancing take in 0111‘ rec-
reation program?

Throughout the ages the dance has played an
important part in the life of man. To every man,
woman and child there comes at times an impulse
to express his emotions in rhythm. This outlet of
a man’s feelings may be through one of two chan-
nels—singing or dancing. Singing is a verbal ex-
pression of these emotions. Dancing expresses
these emotions in bodily 'movements. Sometimes
these movements are meaningless; nevertheless
they provide a definite satisfaction to the indi-
vidual. Many dances often interpret an idea, and
when done in a way that make
them an inspiration to others,
the performer becomes an art-
ist and his work an art. “To
express the noblest and most
profound sentiments of the
human soul—this is the func-
tion of the dance,” said Isa-
dora Duncan.

Dancing teachers the coun-
try over say that the majority
of pe 0ple attending their

Mr. SymeI who has had experience

both as a teacher of dancing and a
director of recreation' will contribute
to RECREATION a series of articles
on dancing. He will suggest dance
material suitable for use in the recre-
ation program and will' throughout
his articles, keep in mind the needs of
the recreation director. Mr. Syme
will be glad to answer. in the columns
of the magazineI any questions om
readers may wish to ask.

 

"The dance is the rhythmic
yearning of the whole body
toward aspirations we can-
not define."—Emmanuef

 

studios today have no professional aspirations but
come purely for their own personal improvement.
This may be for personal reasons alone such as
health, mental relaxation, and figUre building.
Others derive a certain enjoyment from being
able to execute a few movements in rhythm.
Business and professional girls and women and
housewives are filling many of our larger studios.
They have no desire to go on the stage but are
attending solely for the recreational and healthful
exercise offered by the dance. Doctors for years
have recommended dancing for children as one of
the best and most enjoyable mediums for develop-
ing strength, health, and graceful bodies.

Outdoor Dancing

While many city recreation departments con-
duct dancing as part of their indoor community
center programs, few cities make provision for
summer out-of—door dancing. Here we have fail-
ed to utilize nature’s offering—soft green grass
to 1'eplace hard wooden dance floors, and the blue
sky for a ceiling with trees and flowers as a back-
ground. In conducting classes in the Open we
must forget the routine of an indoor program and
start off unfettered to make the most of our new
settings. Our dances should
be arranged in harmony with
our new environment. They
should be built around nature
themes such as water studies,
cloud dances, Indian and char-
acter dances. Folk dancing,
acrobatic and social dances
lend themselves to outdoor
programs and in many sections
of the country are extensively

(Continued on page 276) °

255

A City Builds Teams from Gangs

By
RICHARD JAMES HURLEY

Falls, New York, we found our staff reduced

from fifteen to seven and the play centers from
seven to five. At the same time, we had an in-
crease to 345 in the membership of the League
and a program calling for a schedule of soft ball,
volley ball, horseshoe pitching, track events,
checkers, and paddle teams. There was the usual
playground program, and there were hikes and
other projects to be conducted at the same time.

The increase in activity plus a 50 percent de—
crease in staff demanded changes in our methods
of dealing with the gangs and teams and called
for a high degree of efficiency and organization,
with greater control and more responsibility
placed upon members of the League.

In June, before the closing of school, we gath-
ered together a hundred or so team representa—
tives to discuss League changes. The main, results
were a renewal of interest, a mutual spirit of
loyalty and a change in team grading from the
senior “A” and junior “B” to a four—way group-
ing of Senior, Intermediate, Junior and Midget.
Age and ability were the deciding factors and the
age limits were roughly 16-20, 14-16, 11-14 and
9-11. The team captains and managers met later
to decide in what divisions the various teams
would go. They did their work so well that it
was not necessary to make any changes during
the season. The Midget section developed like
Topsy—nit just “growed.” The big boys realized
that they could have their fun and yet give the
little chaps a chance to be League members.

Another change was in the personnel of the
League. We added six Midget teams that made
their division a success, but our Senior group
proved troublesome. Better working conditions,
summer school and the unfavorable attitude of
parents toward the playing of older boys, cut into
both membership and efficiency. We decided to
abandon the division unless it had at least the five

256

IN THE SECOND YEAR of our program in Little

 

teams which we felt necessary for healthful com-
petition. The Seniors recruited and had a good

season. \Ve plan in the future, however. to ad-
vance each division, adding a new Midget group
each year and dropping the Seniors who will be
invited to act as aides. Under the new conditions
twenty of the twenty-three teams finished their
season instead of last year’s eighteen of twenty-
two, a tribute to the boys’ interest under handicaps.

OUr reduced personnel forced us to divide re—
sponsibility among all directors instead of follow-
ing our ideal one-man, full-time system. League
formation, scheduling, team standings and pub-
licity were main activities with one director co-
ordinating them. The results were spotty but
these we felt to be due more to individual dif-
ferences than to any fault in the idea itself '\V e
had 300 inches for the eight weeks of play. True,
there were misspelled names, wrong scores, good
plays we had failed to note, but nothing serious
occurred. - The sport notes were literally memor-
ized and corrections and comments were outstand—
ing topics. The constructive tone aided greatly in
building League morale.

Activities were both team and individual, for
we felt that certain boys were “lone wolves” in
spite of gang membership. We wished, too, to
focus attention on individual effort, for team play

 

A CITY BUILDS TEAMS FROM GANGS 257

covered a multitude of sins. We increased our
track meets, regulating events according to the
various divisions, Midgets competing in the 50-
and 75-yard dashes and Seniors in the 100- and
220-yard. Paddle tennis, introduccd as a play-
ground game, proved to have potentialities as a
League activity. Horseshoes is another individual
sport which has proved successful for two sea—
sons. Checkers amazed us by its popularity,
though the excellent playing of a few detracts
from its effectiveness when team standings are at
stake. Golf, adapted to restricted areas, deck ten—
nis and similar games are being considered for
next season. Whilc we feel individual sports
should be stressed there is dispute over the credit
that should be given. Should each activity be given
a distinct evaluation?

Tug-of—war was tried and found wanting as it
was too strenuous for our growing boys. As they
said it was “all brawn and no brains.” Soft ball
and volley ball proved the core of our program
with no lessening in interest. There has been much
debate over soccer for a summer activity, with no
decision as yet. In our scheduling we tried to
have the strenuous play in the cool mornings with
the quiet, less active games in the hot afternoons
and on rainy days.

In preparation for the grand Labor Day “bust-
up” we again chose an all-star team but changed
the method of play-off. \Ve abandoned the choice
of players on the basis of all-season play judged
by the director, and had each boy register with his
playground director for the position for which, he
wished to try out. This made it more of an indi-
vidual proposition and gave a boy, if he had suf-
fered a playing slump, another'chance to shine.
We likewise omitted the emblems of sportsman-
ship and prizes because of our financial difficulties,
and found to our satisfaction that enthusiasm was
as keen as in the past.

Conduct standards were decided upon and en—
forced this season. Smoking,
crap shooting and swearing
were taboo on the main play-
ground, with similar rules on
the other centers. For a few
days we wondered what would
happen. There were misunder-
standings, but in a few days a
spirit of cooperation developed
and soon the boys became
proud of their standard. Visit-
ing teams obeyed the unwrit-

The story of Little Falls' first year's -
experience in conducting playgrounds
was told in the August I934 issue of
RECREATION. The story stressed the
organization of the Junior League tor
boys. ln this article Mr. Hurley gives
us the results of the second year's
program which proved to be a some-
what new experiment in forming
neighborhood gangs into playground
teams rather than merely the contin-

uation of the Junior League as origi-
nally organized.

ten code as they learned about it via the boys’ own
system of grapevine ne'ws. Some boys even sug-
gested methods of enforcing the code, but we left
much of this to social pressure. A quiet talk to a
visiting boy who smoked was usually all that was
necessary. Spontaneous swearing did occur, but
none of the deliberate kind. Moreover, this sea—
son no equipment was stolen in spite of the field a
house being open the full time. ,We required the
boys to ask permission to enter the house for any
equipment. At first this seemed strange to them,
but soon it was still stranger not to ask permis-
sion. Often we locked the field house and left
horseshoes and checkers and similar equipment in
the possession of the players with one boy respon-
sible for the “left outs.” The response was 100%.
Personal conduct rules made the boy first respect
himself and then his playgrOUnd.

As we reviewed the work of the two years we
came to certain conclusions which will condition
future policy.

In a League with over 300 boys, one man must
give his full, undivided attention to its direction.
Problcms of team leadership, morale, team and
inter-team friction, policies and schedules, require
careful attention and must have unity of purpose
and design. Again, a real League is inter-city,
and someone must go into. the byways where boy
gangs Flourish. A playground director is busy
enough with his inter-playground system and does
not locate distant groups. His playground may be

dominated by certain elements that will keep de-
sirable material from coming. '

Any large playground requires two directors;
onc to maintain a constant schedule of activities

.and the other to handle League teams on and

especially, away from the home lot. Hikes, trips
and projects that serve to enrich the program de—
mand individual attention on a full-time scale. Boys

should not come to a playground to find it closed

Each team should have its own set of schedules;
the group should have the
means of knowing when, where
and what teams they are to
play. They may want to post
this information in their shack
or at some accessible spot.
Both director and boy feel the
strain of constant checking in
this unnecessary way.

Games should be played in
the morning during the first

(Continued on page 277)

Westchester County's Recreation Camp

A camp community lacking in expensive
equipment but rich in happy experiences

HE EXTENT to which a communal life, built
T around the complex relationship of adult to

child, can be harmonious and benehcial to all
those concerned is demonstrated in the camp com-
_munity at Croton-on-Hudson, where the West-
phester County Recreation Commission has just
opened its summer camps. Forty councilors, I 30
boys and 100 girls will constitute the population.
About two—thirds of the younger section changes
at intervals of two or four weeks, so that in all
about 700 children will be campers there during
the period of July Ist to August 26th.

The permanent nucleus, the staff, unobstru-
sively serving the children as parents, teachers
and playmates, is the backbone of the whole pro-
.ject, according to Charles B. Cranford. camp ad-
ministrator. Inter-
,est in the Croton
.camp as an example
.of the application
,of progressive edu-
cational methods,
-far removed from
—the conhning school
.room, has brought
.together an out—
.standing group of
.teachers and camp
'leaders‘on the coun-
,cilors’ staff. They
work and play with
,a common goal in
._sight for the camp-
.ers: first, .happi—
.ness ; second, social
adjustment; .tlhird,
.physical .well—being.

Unlike privately
,owned su m.me r
,camps for children,
the county .recrea.-
tion camps are not
.elaborately ,eqpip—

£258

 

Courtesy Westchester County Recreation Commission

ped resorts. The tuition at the county camps
amounts to scarcely more than the sum which
would be spent on a child living at home. Since
the county bears the brunt of the upkeep, the
camps are operated on a skeleton budget. The
material facilities are simple. There is an abund-
ance of fresh air and sunshine; there are rolling
helds of grass underfoot and tall oaks and maples
shading them ; a strip of beach bordering the shin-
ing waters of the Hudson on one side and the
Croton inlet on the other. The little cabins scat—
tered over the point are clean and airy, if plain,
and the dining and recreation rooms, workshops
and crafts studios are in the same style.

This lack of show has never been considered a
limitation, Mr. Cranford points outfbut has been
a constructive fac—
tor in building up
a program of ac—
tivities patterned as
nearly as possible
after conditions that
might surround any
child in his daily
living. The com-
bined energies and
talents of the coun—
cilors go into the
program; hence
their importance in
organization, ac-
cording to Mr.
Cranford:

“Each leader has
a twofold function:
to take the part of
the child’s o l d e r
brother or sister,
sharing his or her
experiences, guid—
ing him in his so-
cial attitudes. The
second duty of the

WESTCHESTER COUNTY’S RECREATION CAMP 259

Courtesy Westchester C ounty Recreation Commission

leaders is to take charge of special activities——
nature study, art, crafts, land sports, water sports,
dramatics. Some junior men and women on the
staff are undergraduates in universities, but most
of the councilors are teachers.

“After living with boys and girls twenty-four
hours of the day for eight weeks, they return to
their teaching posts with a clearer picture of chil-
dren’s needs and problems, and a practical knowl-
edge of the best means of satisfying them. On
the other hand, the campers return to their homes
imbued with the idea of regard for the other fel-
low, of alignment with others for the general
good.”

A portion of the camp community is composed
of children from boarding homes maintained by

the county’s Department of Child Welfare. No‘

differentiation exists at camp between these less
fortunate children and the sons and daughters of
‘Westchester citizens, moderately well—off, many

Where is the boy to be found who wouldn't
rank fishing above almost any other sport?

 

When the bugle sounds the call for meals
the response is always most gratifying!

t

of whom attend this camp in preference to private
camps because of the progressive character of the
program. ‘_ r

A modicum of regimentation is practised in the
daily life. True, a bugle blows to rouse the camp-
ers from their cots; there is a bedtime and a time
for meals and for “community duties”——cleaning
up for which “sanitation squads” volunteer. There
are definite swimming periods, but even they are
optional ; the child can take his swim in the morn-
ing or afternoon or not at all, if he so pleases.
slut beyond this. a daily routine is non—existent.
The campers choose the activity in which lies
their greatest interest. They gather early in the
day, learn where each councilor is going to be and

what he or she plans to do.

Thus, the girls’ dramatics councilor: “Mary
Ann has been working on a play for the party
next Friday. She needs a little help in the last

(Continued on page 277)

 

Courtesy Westchester C omzty Recreation Commission

Sioux City’s New Amphitheater

By

JOHN E. GRONSETH

Director of Recreation
Sioux CityI Iowa

IOUX CITY’S music, art and drama lovers may
S now enjoy these fine arts in comfort when
they attend a concert or drama in Grand—
view Park. For there in a bowl, forming a natural
amphitheater, has been erected a band shell, a
structure of beauty befitting its setting, and on
the slopes of the hills comfortable seats for
spectators.

This glen in the wooded heights of Grandview
Park is not a new meeting place for Sioux City
music and drama enthusiasts. It has long been in
use for band concerts, pageants and kindred rec-
reational activities. Some years ago there was
built there a wooden bandshell. The audience sat
on the grassy bank in lieu of benches, neither an
adequate nor comfortable arrangement. This.
however, was wholly a makeshift awaiting the
time a proper amphitheatre could be built.

This amphitheatre-to-be remained in the minds
and imaginations of interested citizens until CW’A

t..- -.- .-

'I—Tl'

The people of Sioux City expect
years of satisfaction from their
own permanent concrete amphithe-
ater in Grandview Park which was
built as a work relief proiect.
Other communities. in planning
their PWA project, may well keep
in mind the experience of Sioux
City in erecting a structure de-
signed to give enduring service to
its cultural interests.

work was introduced. \Vhile C\VA was a project
strictly for the relief of the unemployed and did
not have as an end civil glorification, in this in-
stance both ends were achieved.

Several converging interests meeting at this
point brought reality to a dream. The location and
the desire for an amphitheatre were both present
in the community, the funds for the work might
be obtained if the plan was approved, and a de-
sign for the building, which had already drawn
favorable attention, was at hand. At an exhibi-
tion of architectural drawings, executed by Henry

 

SIOUX CITY’S NEI’V AMPHITHEATER 261

Kamphoefner, Sioux City architect, held under
the auspices of the Sioux City Society of Fine
Arts, was shown a design for a monumental band
stand. This design had received honorable men-
tion in the first preliminary trial for the 1933
Paris Prize. It pleased the public and at the same
time it exactly fulfilled requirements for the Sioux
City project. W'ith accommodation in the acous-
tical shell for three hundred vocalists or one hun-
dred seated musicians, it was suitable for erection
in a natural amphitheatre in which, by proper
placement and structure of the shell, listeners at a
distance would be able to hear the most delicate

note.

Undoubtedly this was what Sioux City needed
and wanted. Musical organizations, such as the
Monahan Post Band, which had a large part in
making the project a success, club women, busi—
ness men, all who were interested in promoting
better recreational facilities in their city, endorsed

the project.

The architect, in conjunction with the city
building contractor and the district engineer, pre—
pared application forms which upon recommenda—
tion of the park commissioner were signed by the
mayor and the county emergency relief commit-
tee. This application then went to the state and
federal authorities. President Roosevelt ex-
pressed himself as deeply appreciative ”of the
very fine public spirit and vision manifested by
those who are creating this valuable social and
recreational asset.” On February 26, 1934, the
state engineer approved the application and within
ten days the ground was broken and the dream
started to be a tangible reality.

The total estimated cost of the project was
$51,236 of- which $47,436 was to be paid from
C\VA funds and the remainder $3,800 was to
come from the city. This was according to gen—
eral requirements that the city benefited pay a
certain percantage of material costs on civil works
projects. Materials were figured at slightly more
than $14,000. Labor costs were to be about
$34,500, and the costs of teams and trucks for
grading about $2,500. \Vith continuous labor the
project would have been completed by May but
owing to lulls in relief activities the last concrete
was not poured until October I7.

The band shell is placed in a hollow deep enough
to give ample seating space for 10.000 spectators
although only 6,000 seats are at present provided.
The seats are of wood with reinforced concrete

understructure. From every seat is an adequate
view of the stage below. Drama, pageantry, music
may be enjoyed both in sight and sound by each

spectator.

Some Construction Details

The spherical ellipse of seats finds itself inter-
sected at its lowest point by- a perpendicularly
erected semicircle of smooth white concrete one
foot high, actually the rim of the truncated right
circular half cone which is partially sunk into a
podium 102 feet along the front. From either
side of this podium are returned staircases that
debouch in front to either side of a pool fed from

three fountains with aluminum caps, gracing the
center of the structure. The staircases are
equipped with aluminum hand rails and are acces—
sible from the side and also from the back, so that
processions of the most elaborate nature can
reach the stage from any direction. The central
aisle of the orchestra is on the main axis of the
building and there are two secondary aisles on the
axes of two great drums which lie on pedestals
rising above the staircases and which also visibly
terminate the thrusts of the great circular arch.

The shell and its base are one monolithic con-
crete structure. It is constructed of Portland
cement, white cement and reenforcing steel bars.
The fiuted bands and scultpured plaques are ap-
plied o’rnaments and are made of pre—cast concrete.

The plaques depict the Faun, symbolizing pas-
toral music, and the Tragic Muse, the deeper sub-
tleties of music. They are the work of Herschel
Elarth. They were designed in clay at the Public
W'orks Art Projects studio at Iowa City.

The lighting has been arranged to aid in dra-
matic production. Eighty-seven lights are con—
cealed in the great arch and project the three
primary colors. These may be mixed to produce
any color desired. The pool has nine lights for
coloring the jets of water.

At the back of the building are rooms: offices
for the director, space for the band library, toilets
and dressing rooms for the personnel of the band
and accommodations for guest performers. An
interior stair leads to the shell itself and from this
doorway an electrician can control the lighting
apparatus and amplify the sound if desirable for
speaking purposes.-

A movable platform has been provided that can
be placed over the concrete tiers to change the
permanent seating arrangement for musicians into

. (ContimJed on. page 277)

Some Indian Games

Ga - Gwe - Gee - Wass
(Wrestle). Two contestants

lie on the ground, flat on HE Indian games presented here
Tthrough the courtesy ot the Ex-

tension Department. Milwaukee Pub-
lic SchoolsI were passed on to the

boys ot the Milwaukee playgrounds
Chiet Wah-be-sko-ga-nah-be

their stomachs, facing one
another. The right elbow
rests on the ground with
the upper arm in a straight by
line with the body. Con-o
testants grasp right hands.
The left forearm is kept on
the ground, parallel to the
chest. The object of the
game is to make the oppon—
ent’s right forearm touch the ground by horizontal
pushing.

NOTE: The Indians had grassy Fields upon which to
play Ga—Gwe-Gee—Wass. Since playing on the gravel
playground surface will bruise the arms of the players,

newspapers should lbe provided to protect them. This
stunt may also be played sitting at a table.

Ab-Bo-Gee-Way-Baa (Push Over). Two contest-
ants lie on their backs side by side, with hands in
opposite directions; each contestant’s head rests
at a point just opposite his opponent’s buttocks.
Each contestant places his inside arm straight
down by his side with his hand on his opponent’s
shoulder. Outside hands are on hips. At a signal
each contestant lifts his inside leg (knee stiff) to
a point just beyond the vertical, hooks ankles with
his opponent and attempts to roll his opponent
over backward. Either contestant rolled backward

loses the bout. Five bouts constitute a match; best
three out of Five wins the match.

Che-Che-Sock-a-Way (Hop on one leg). Two
contestants stand facing each other at a distance
of Five feet. Each stands on the right foot, clasps
his left foot with left hand, and places the right
arm across the front, clasping the biceps of the left
arm. At a signal, each contestant hops forward
and attempts by bucking, side-stepping, etc., to
overthrow his opponent or compel him to release
his grasp on the upheld foot. The contestants are
not allowed to use their left hands against each
other. Either contestant committing any of these
acts loses the bout. If both contestants commit
any of them on the same occasion the one doing

262

(White Feather)I John GoslinI ot Mil-

waukee. They are the games which he
and his playmates enioyed in their

youth on the Hayward Reservation
and at the Carlisle Indian School.

 

so first loses the bout. Five
bouts constitute a match;
best three out of five wins
the match.

Ga-Gwe-Gee-Wamengen
[Hand Wrestle). Two con-
testants stand with feet
Firmly spread in the stride
position, each with his right
foot forward, touching the
outside of his opponent’s
foot. They grasp right
hands. At a signal each at-
tempts by pulling. pushing, turning and twisting
of hands, to over-balance his opponent or compel
him to move either foot from its original position.
The left hand must not be used against the op—
ponent. Either contestant forced to touch the
ground with any part of his body other than his
feet, or forced to move either foot, loses the bout.
If the contestants break their grasp, they rejoin-
hands at once. Five bouts constitute a match; best
three out of five wins the match.

We-Bay-Gen (Snatch). This can be played with
from two to ten or more players.

Players are divided into two teams who face
each other, standing on a goal line about forty
feet apart. Team members stand shoulder to
shoulder. The members of each team are num-
bered consecutively, beginning with number one.
On the ground midway between the teams a fairly
good-sized piece of hide is placed. A referee calls
a number and the two players having that number
dash forward to steal the hide and carry it across
either of the goal lines without being tagged by
the opposing player. If a player steals the hide
and crosses the goal line without being tagged, he
scores one point for his team. Should he be tagged
before crossing the goal line, the opposing team
scores a point. At the start of the game a number
of points is decided upon.

Pop-Pa-Ce-Ka-We (A modified La Crosse game).
The Pop-Pa-Ce-Ka-‘We consists of a leather strip
ten to twelve inches long and about two inches '
wide, at each end of which a ball of soft wadded,
firmly sewed cloth is attached. A rope may be

SOME INDIAN GAMES 263

used in place of the strap. Each player is sup-
plied with a branch of a tree or shrub about
twenty inches long and not more than an inch in
diameter. The playing area is limited; at each end
a goal line is drawn. The object of the game .is
for the players to get the Pop-Pa-Ce-Ka-VVe on
their sticks and fling it over the opponent’s goal
line; doing so scores one point. The game may
be played for timel or for a set number of points.
Play is begun and restarted after every point by
tossing the Pop-Pa-Ce-Ka-W'e up between two
opposing players in the center of the playing area
Players are not to run with the Pop-Pa-Ce—Ka—
We. It is not to be batted but thrown or flung.

Utmost caution should be taken to have the
players’ sticks smoother from top to bottom and
to avoid any small protrusions from twigs or
branches. The end of the stick should not be
pointed; in fact it would be well to pad it. \Vhile
the ball should be firmly sewed to keep its round
shape, it should by no means be hard. Gunny
sacks wadded into shape of a ball are very useable.

\Nith the Indians the playing field for Pop—Pa-
Ce-Ka-We was unlimited; often tribe played
against tribe. Pop-Pa-Ce—Ka-VVe should not be
played on small playing areas where there is dan-
ger_of the Pop-Pa-Ce-Ka-VVe flying into sandbox,
apparatus or playing groups. Since our festival
arenas are necessarily small, the playing of Pop—
Pa-Ce-Ka-We should be regarded more as a
demonstration of the game than an actual spirited
playing of it. The festival teams should be limited
to six or less members, according to the size of
the playing field. These teams should be carefully
coached and impressed with the fact that their

playing should not be too strenuous on the even-
ing of the festival.

Since the combative contests described are all
played by two contestants, it would add much to
the interest to have many groups of two scattered
all over the arena instead of having a limited
amount of playing done in the center of the field.
Scattered groups would bring the activity nearer
to the audience and give the playing field an in—
tereistiilg appearance of activity.

Chief \Vhite Feather tells a most interesting
Indian legend about the origin of the relay race.
Many, many years ago the earth was inhabited by
the following classes of creatures: man, animal,
fish and bird. One day, a beautiful Princess came
to earth. She desired a mate. The rivalry among
the creatures of earth was very tense, so the Prin-
cess decided to stage a race and take its winner

as her companion. The turtle wanted much to be
the one selected, but realized that he had no
chance whatever on account of his lack of en—
durance. After much brooding, he schemed the
following plan: he went to the bottom of the lake
and rounded up four turtles like himself in size.
He placed the first turtle under the leaves and
grass a certain distance from the starting line;
farther down the line he had another turtle and

in this fashion he divided the course of the run 0
among the four turtles. \Vhen the race was called,
the turtle started off with the rest: as he crawled
under the leaves concealing the first turtle, the
hidden tUrtle ran to release the next hidden turtle,
and so on. The legend does not tell whether or
not the turtle won the Princess, but it did give
the Indians the foundation for many interesting
relay races, one of which is the Gee-Gee-Bakkum-
Magee.

Gee-Gee-Bakkum-Magee (Going in and emerging
from ground). Gee—Gee-Bakkum-Magee is a relay
based on the Indians' methods of transportation.
,There are five members on a team, the starter be-
ing called the Geebakkum. The Geebakkum stands
on the starting line; player number two places
himself on the ground face downward, sUpporting
his body on his arms ready for a wheelbarrow
race. (Because of the pebbly nature of the play-
ground surface, this wheelbarrow player should
be given a block of wood for each hand on which
to “walk.”) Number three stands in front of
number tWO in a high leap-frog position. Number
four lies flat on his stomach facing the goal line
with a stout branch six feet long lying on each
side under his arm. Number five stands in ordi-
nary position. At the signal “go,” Geebakkum
(the starter) runs to Number two, grabs his an—
kles and wheelbarrowsi him down the cOUrse to
Number three, Number two then jumps on the
back of Number three, who carries him “Pick
Aback" down the course to Number four; here
Number three mounts the sticks lying along the
side of Number four by putting a foot and a hand
on each stick without allowing any part of his
body to 'touch the sticks or the ground. As soon
as Number 3 is mounted, Number four jumps up
and pulls the sticks down the course according to
the old Indian method of transportation. On
reaching player Number five. the rider jumps
from the sticks; the “horse” (player Number
four), turns them over to Number five who car-
ries them over the goal line.

(Con-tinned on page 278)

When Sally in Our Alley Goes to Summer Camp

By MARY E. DOLAN

W’oods can possibly give as

much anticipated joy as does
“Camp Skullbone in the Woods,” only thirty-five
miles southwest of St. Louis, a summer camp for
the underprivileged children of that city con-
ducted by the Neighborhood Association Settle—
ment House. For weeks the children talk of
nothing but the swimming pool, the farms, the
hikes at camp, and plague their teachers at Neigh-
borhood Association for a list of clothes to bring.

At Camp Skullbone, children who day after
day see only a brick wall f rom their bedroom win-
dows and hear only jazz from nearby dance halls,
awake to the whistling of a redbird and fall asleep
to the tune of an Italian aria sung by an opera
singer. “Children love music,” said Miss Gladys
Gross, singing instructor and director of Camp
Skullbone, “and at night they beg me to sing them
such lullabies as ‘Mighty Lak a Rose.’ "

Organized for the benefit of children of meager
means; the camp offers a week's outing in the
country for a nominal sum. Those who cannot af-
ford more pay but twenty—Five cents; the maxi-
mum charge is $2.50. The children are for the
most part from tenement districts, but the activi—
ties of Neighborhood Association have developed
such healthy self —assurance in'them that no casual
observer would suspect their
home surroundings. These
children at
Camp Skull—
bone receive
the advan- I
tages of such
a camp as
children of
w e a l t h y
homes en-
joy.

At differ-
ent t i m e s
certain age
g r o u p s
spend a week
at the camp,
which open-

N o SWANKY CAMP in the North

264

St. LouisI Missouri

Compact little cabins make this California
camp thoroughly cozy and comfortable

 

ed last season on June 25th with
eight girls of fourteen to sixteen
years enrolled. The second week
saw an increase in enthusiasm and the number
jumped to twenty-eight of the twelve to fourteen
age group, although a few little sisters also at-
tended. From August to September the boys of
the Neighborhood Association visit the camp
under the direction of men instructors.

The natural setting of the camp is ideal. Lo-
cated on a private road, Camp Skullbone escapes
curiosity seekers and vagrants of the main high-
way as well as its noise and distraction. Cedar
trees galore form a natural parasol over the
grounds which are just rugged enough to be in-
teresting. At the foot of the hill is a stone spring
house decorated with the totem pole of the lodge.
Near by in a shaded corner stands a rustic table
and bench for picnic suppers, while at the top of
the hill is a roomy open air lodge with sleeping
quarters for children and instructors. Along the
front of the lodge is a wide porch with pine chairs
cushioned with cretonne. The living room has
stone fireplaces at each end and shiny lamps hung
from the rafters. At the rear is the kitchen with
rows of gleaming kettles suspended from the ceil-
ing and, lining the walls, shelves stocked with
bacon, pineapple and other goodies. Spring water

piped to the camp and

pumped into a reservoir
tower back
of the lodge
assures a
plentiful
supply for
drinking and
bathing.

C a m p
Skullbone is
organized on
a threefold
program—
recreational,
educational
or cultural,
and charac-
ter building.

WHEN SALLY IN OUR ALLEY GOES TO SUMMER CAMP 265

The recreational facili-
ties are plentiful in this
forty acre tract where
trails invite for hikes.
There is a steep straight-
away trail to the lodge,
p0pular when the din-
ner gong rings, and a
round-about trail to the
lodge for more leisure-
ly walking. “We always
hike with a purpose.”
Miss Gross explained,
“to visit the neighbor-
ing farmhouse w h e r e
we get the eggs and
milk, or to a near by
store to purchase marsh-
mallows. Swimming is
by far the chief attrac-
tion of the camp. Some
of the children have
never been in .the water
before, but nearly all are swimming by the
end of the week.” The pool is a close approach
to the “old swimmin’ hole,” with a concrete dam
across Skullbone Creek forming a natural reser-

Conrtcsy Girl Scouts

voir about three feet deep where the children

splash at will without danger. In the afternoon
they are given formal instruction in swimming.

On Thursday, which is visiting day for the
mothers, mothers both stout and thin and arrayed
in a variety of improvised suits, splash with the
children, and at the end of the weeka swimming
carnival is .held. Another recreational event is the
mock track meet with all sorts of hopping, run-
ning and jumping relays. For the amusement of
the mothers the children give a tumbling exhibi-
tion, when they display the pyramid building and
handsprings they have learned.

Educational and Cultural Opportunities

N or is the educational and cultural training of
the children neglected. This phase is stressed by
the teaching of table manners. personal cleanli-
ness and good fellowship. Miss Gross displayed
a large crate of books she had brought along for
the children’s reading which included nature study
volumes and stories of adventure and the out-of-
doors, such as those of Zane Grey. “1 never at-
tempt to teach health rules directly,” she said,
“but by asking Miss W'orley, my assistant, a ques-
tion about how she cares for her teeth I interest

 

With so many things to
do at camp the days are
never quite long enough

the children until the
hrst thing you know
they are asking what
tooth powder to use and
what shape tooth brush.
\Vlien Miss \Vorley dis—
sected a frog for them
they learned not only
the anatomy of a ba-
trachian but indirectly
the care of the eyes, the
skin, and other health
rules."

In the matter of na-
ture study the children
are taught to protect
plant and animal life.
Throughout the grounds are posted signs an-
nouncing, “we love our trees, shrubs, flowers,
rocks, streams, lodge, and wild life,” and asking
all passers by to be respectful of the property.
Sometimes the instruction is more formal, when
specialists in the helds of health, social work and
citizenship talk to the children.

Camp Skullbone tends to deve10p character by
its emphasis on self-reliance as well as on cooper-
ation. There is much free time for pursuing the
child's own interests. By giving each child cer-
tain chores to perform, he learns the art of team
work and its value. “Of all the tasks from getting
wood for the stove, disposing of garbage, cleaning
and Elling lamps, to helping prepare meals, scrub-
bing Hoors, dusting furniture and waiting on
tables,” said Miss Gross, “washing dishes is the
least popular. But there is no such thing as a
discipline problem at Camp Skullbone. The
mothers are anxious, almost too anxious, that
their children toe the mark. There are few rules
and hence little inducement to break them.”

The freedom of the place breeds a good will
between child and director. Beginning with
taps on the bugle at seven in the morning, an early
swim precedes breakfast. The free time, hike or
ball game leads to lunch hour at twelve. After an
hour's rest there are swimming lessons, games and
supper.‘ Then a retreat or song hour follows, with

(Continued on page 278)

266 WITH THE CIVILIAN CONSERVATION CORPS

With the Civilian Conservation
Corps

AREPORT OUTLINING the major items of work
accomplished by the Civilian Conservation
Corps during the period from April 17, 1933,
when the first camp was established, to April 1,
1935, shows all reforestation and conservation
work completed on 59 different types of projects
ranging from tree planting to the construction of
truck trails through forest areas.

Chief among the items having to do with recre-
ational facilities were the'inlprovement of 27,000
acres of public camp grounds and of 1 16,000 acres
of lakes, ponds and beaches, and the construction

of 3,336 ponds for fish and birds and of 1,159
recreational dams.

The report, which was released on July 7, 1935,
states:

“The improvement of our national and state
parks, as well as the development of new recrea-
tional facilities in other timbered areas, has been
stressed. The national parks and monuments have
been given better protection from fires, diseases
and insects. Due to the stimulus of the CCC pro—
gram, the states have added more than 500,000
acres to their state parks. Thousands of acres of
park land have been cleared for public camp
grounds; new camp buildings have been erectcd:
public camp ground water systems have been in-
stalled; simple camp grounds have been developed
in national and state forests. These have been
equipped with pure drinking water," rustic fire-
places and rest rooms.

“The development work has greatly increased
the recreational values of our public forests and
parks. The Forest Service and National Park
Service anticipate that more than 40,000,000 per-
sons will visit the national parks and forests this
year.”

The report lists other principal work programs
completed which have been largely directed to-
ward the improvement and protection of our na-
tional resources, particularly forests and parks,
and the prevention of destructive soil erosion.
These items make an imposing total.

Robert Fechner, Director of the Emergency
Conservation Work, states in his report that the
Department of Agriculture, the Department of the
Interior and the Department of War estimate the
present value of the work completed by April 1,

(Continued on page 278)

Youth Versus Society

ON APRIL 30th, May 1st and May 2nd, at three
sessions held under the sponsorship of the
Council of Social Agencies of the Oranges and
Maplewood, New Jersey, Youth indicted Society
for indifference to and ignorance of the problems
of youth in respect to employment, marriage,
friendship, moral code, leisure and health. Hon-
orable Daniel  Brennan of the Essex County
Court of Appeals presided. There were a defense
counsel and six members of the prosecuting staff
who took part in the trial. Many witnesses were
called—local ministers, physicians, educators, rep-
resentatives of’ local organizations of many kinds,
juvenile court judges, health officers and other
officials. These witnesses were cross-examined
with great earnestness. and there was evidence on
the part of the young people of a very serious de—
sire to make their needs and point of view known,
to find out more about the social environment in
which they are living, and to do everything pos-
sible to bring about better conditions for them-
selves and their confreres.

After due deliberation the jury found Society
guilty as charged on the following counts:

1. Allowing employment at starvation wages

2. Inadequate instruction on the subject of choos-
ing a mate

3. Allowing conditions to exist under which
young people are unable to marry due to lack
of employment

4. Allowing the continued and flourishing exis-
tence of pitfalls for youth such as obscene
literature, saloons and gambling devices

5. Harsh attitude towards those with a criminal
or police record

6. Incomplete use of public buildings, schools,
churches, etc., for leisure time

Society was cleared on eight of the counts ob-
tained in the indictment. These were:

1. Inadequate employment service
2. Inadequate preparation in schools for any form
of employment
3. Allowing racial and national prejudice to in-
terfere with employment
4. Lack of cooperation among existing young peo—
ple’s organizations and agencies
5. Appalling inadequacy of facilities for youth
activities
6. Failure to attempt serious moral education in
the home, scliooI and church
. Failure of educational system to instruct in the
proper use of leisure time
8. Lack of facilities for the use of leisure time

The jury reported a disagreement on the ques-

tion' of inadequate sex education and decided that
(Continued on page 278)

\1

I"

WORLD AT PLAY

 

CHILDREN of
Newburgh, New
Yo rk, revealed an
amazingly shrewd
concept of popular democratic government,
when on April 29th, 64 boys and girls from the
South End made a surprise attack on the City
Council, and with the help of two adult spokes—
men, demanded a playground in their neigh—
borhood. “This is getting a new note in coun-
cil meetings,” said Mayor Brown in welcoming
the group. The children’s spokesmen were
immediately given an audience and after a
hasty conference one of the councilmen moved
that the request be referred to the City Mana-
ger and that he confer with the head of the
Recreation Commission to see what could be
done. On May 6th, just seven days later, the
Council appropriated $200 to clear a vacant lot
which the Ramsdell Estate made available pro-
vided the city would take responsibility for
the project.

Newburgh Children
Go Into Action

 

EVERY Sunday af-
ternoon during the

summer, from 3:30
to 5 :00 o’clock, resi-
dents of \Vheeling, \Vest Virginia, and their
friends may enjoy popular concerts at Oglebay
Park by the Garden Symphonette. Another fea-
ture of the summer season is a series of six
nationality night dinners. On June 5th there
was an English garden party with appropriate
music from England, Ireland and Scotland, and
a number of dances including the Irish jig and
Highland fling. The dinner which was served
conformed to the character of the party.

Summer Events at
- Oglebay Park

_. A suggestion come5
A B
aseba“ from Philadelphia,

B Ii
ene t where John V. Smith

of the Bureau of
Recreation was able to persuade the manage-
ment of two professional baseball leagues—the
American and the National—~40 agree to put

on a benefit for the purchase of baseball equip-
ment for the Bureau’s baseball tournament.
The game was run in the old-fashioned way,
the bat being tossed hand over hand for first
choice and the players being chosen indiscrim-
inately from either league. Everyone had a
most enjoyable time, and the teams have
agreed to make it an annual custom.

 

THE Allentown,
Pennsylvania, Rec—
reation Commission
has a project for
shut—ins with some particularly interesting fea—
tures. The Commission conducts a broadcast
two nights a week. One of the broadcasts is
designed especially for the residents of three
homes for the aged and resembles the well
known “Cheerio” hour when birthdays are re-
membered and congratulations offered over the
air. In addition, the Recreation Commission
has a birthday book containing the birthday
date of every inmate of the institutions for the
aged and birthday greeting cards are sent them.
Good used and new neckties are collected and
given the men and good discarded beads are
gathered for the women so that they may at-
tend social hours “dressed up.”

A City’s Activities
for Shut—ins-

 

IN June the pro—
gram of dancing on
Central Park’s Mall
in New York City
was officially opened under the auspices of the
Park Department, James V. Mulholland, Su-
pervisor of Recreation. Fifteen minutes after
the dancing started 1,000 couples peopled the
Mall while the throng of watchers grew rap—
idly filling the benches and overflowing to the
grassy slopes around. At a quarter to ten the
dancing couples had increased to 1,500, and the
watchers were estimated at.10,000. The Pros-
pect Park, Brooklyn, season opened at the
same time with 500 people dancing in the pic--
nic house while 1,000 more clamored for ad—
mittance.

New York Goes
a-Dancing

267

208 WORLD AT PLAY

Training Leaders for Adult Recreation—
Some years ago a group of playground direc—
tors on the staff of the Berkeley, California,
Recreation Department who were interested in
social recreation, organized themselves into the
Recreational Sextette. Their purpose was to
increase their own general knowledge of social
recreation leadership and to aid leaders of pri-
vate groups interested in conducting social rec-
reation. Recently the sextette completed their
second annual adult recreation institute held
for six consecutive Monday evenings with an
average attendance of ninety per evening. A
charge of 10 cents an evening or 50 cents for
the entire course was made to defray expenses.
For this fee over 250 different people received
two hours of instruction and a mimeographed
bulletin presenting the evening's activities. The
subjects included prOgressive game parties,
hobbies and handcraft, music and dramatics,
dancing, quiet games and parties for large
groups. Copies of the bulletins outlining the
material may be secured for 50 cents a set or
10 cents a copy from the Recreational Sextette,
Recreation Department, Berkeley, California.

Recreation and Juvenile Delinquency—Some
time ago the Mayor of \Vilkes Barre, Pennsyl—
vania, referred to the Playground and Recrea—
tion Association of \Vyoming Valley a group
of boys from the Juvenile Court. This group,
now numbering over one hundred, has grown
into a very strong neighborhood boys’icluli
which under leadership has developed a strip
of coal land leased for a dollar a year. Clubs
of this character are among the most interest-
ing developments in \Vilkes Barre. There are
seven of them ranging in membership from 80
to 200. The clubs are self—sustaining, and one
of them has made a club house out of an old
house. This particular group conducts many
athletic activities. They have put in teams in
all the city leagues and have been a very salu-
tary influence in lowering delinquency among
the youth.

State Parks Open for Recreation—The State
of Michigan on May 30th opened 53 state parks
for recreational uses. Each year the popularity
of Michigan’s parks, of which there are now
73, has grown to the point where the annual
attendance now exceeds 9,000,000 people. The

parks furnish an opportunity for the public to
enjoy fishing, bathing, camping, and picnick-
ing at a minimum of expense: Camping per-
mits for a week or longer in all of the parks
may be secured without charge.

A Mountain Recreation Center—The Los
Angeles, California, Playground and Recrea-
tion Department plans to reopen Camp Rad—
burn of the San Bernardino Mountains as a
recreation center for the use of organized
groups. For the past three years the camp has
been serving successively as a forest labor
camp, a CCC barracks, and transient boys’ unit.
Under the new plan, the camp facilities will
become available for the use of organizations
that wish to use the entire camp for their out—
ings, with the cabins, recreation lodge, kitch-
ens, dining hall, swimming pool and other fea-
tures to be rented out at low nominal rates
varying from 50 cents per person for 50 people
or less down to 30 cents per person for groups
of 100 people or more.

Rhythm Bands in Jacksonville—In April the
Jacksonville, Florida, Department of Recrea-
tion held its second rhythm band demonstra—'
tion to show in how many different ways
rhythm bands may be used. Five hundred
children from twelve grammar schools took
part in colorful attire, equipped with such in-
struments as tambourines, triangles, drums,-
jingle clogs, castanets, bells, rumba gOurds, and
other percussion instruments. Each band was
directed by a six or seven year old leader. The
final feature of the program was a rendition of
Haydn’s “Toy Symphony” by an especially
trained group of forty soprano voices and a
number of toy symphony instruments.

The “Old Order Changeth” —— More than
1,600 women in Detroit, Michigan, demon-
strated the fact that the “old order changeth”
in a huge pageant of that title presented on

April 11th at the Olympia. The presentation
brought to a close for the season the Recrea-
tion Department’s work in gymnasium and
dancing classes. It showed the contrast in
recreational activities of ancient, medieval and
modern times. Miss Lottie A. McDermott of
the Recreation Department’s staff was in
charge of the program.

WORLD ArpLAY 269

Des Moines' Closing Playground Festival——
Last summer the playground season in Des
Moines, Iowa, culminated in a playground fes-
tival held at Drake Stadium. The program,
which was a demonstration of the activities of
the playgrounds, opened with a half hour con—
cert by the 327 piece playground band. This
was followed by the presentation of the activi-
ties on asingle playground by representatives
from each of the 21 playgrounds. These cov-
ered tennis, baseball, hand tennis, volley ball,
nature activities, story-telling and handcraft.
Community singing was part of the program.

A Religious Festival—A religious festival
held in Lansing, Michigan, May 8th and 9th,
under the sponsorship of the Recreation De—
partment of the Board of Cemetery and Public
Parks Commissioners was the outgrowth of
the drama contest previously held. The results
were more than gratifying from a dramatic and
educational point of view, and the festival did
much to promote good fellowship among the
churches. The colored group known as the
Paul Robeson Club presented an excellent mis-
sionary play made more effective by some beau—
tiful singing; the Catholic Church presented a
play by eighth grade girls. In all eighteen
groups presented plays in the two programs.

A Song Festival for Colored Choirs —— On

June 20th Council Group No. I of the Central o

Avenue Community Center in Newark, New
Jersey, presented the fifth annual song festival
for choirs representing the colored churches of
Newark. Eleven church choirs took part. In
addition to the songs by individual choirs, there
was mass singing by all the choruses directed
by the Assistant Superintendent of Schools.
This festival has come to be an important event
in the program of the Newark community cen-

ters, and each year it is looked forward to with
great interest.

San Francisco Children Broadcast—On July
12th the Recreation Commission of San Fran-
cisco, California, embarked on an innovation
in the radio program presented by the Commis-
sion in c00peration with NBC, when an ama-
teur hour similar to the one presented every

Sunday afternoon over a national hook-up was
initiated.

 

HE very first consideration of our Engineers in the design
and construction of Louden Equipment. is SAFETY! Others
. healthful physical de-

velopment. Small wonder. therefore. that physical education

areI durability. long-life. thrilling .
authorities everywhere endorse and specify Louden Equip-

ment for playgrounds. beaches. pools and gymnasiums. . .
Many items are exclusive with Louden. You. too. should

LOUDEN

thoroughly investigate the large
and varied line of Louden Equip-
ment before you buy. Asl: about

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

our Junglegyms. Buddy Duplex
Swing. new Rigid Whirl.

J.E.PORTER CORPORATION

120 BROADWAY ' OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

 

Recreation Budget Increases—The two-mill
tax in Charlotte, North Carolina, which was
reduced to one mill during the early stages of

the depression period, was restored to the Rec-
reation Board on July Ist.

Gardening in Detroit—N early 200 boys and
girls of the Fordson High School and several
junior high schools in May began the practical
part of their course in home gardening and hor-
ticulture in a laboratory consisting of a thirteen
acre plot the use of which was given by Henry
Ford. All winter the classes studied the prin—
ciples of horticulture. Miniature gardens were
planted in the school conservatory, and each
student was taught how a garden should be
laid out, both for beautification of the home as
well as proper utilization of the ground. Each
pupil will take care of his garden through the

summer months and will receive scholastic
credits for the course.

Hamilton’s Sport Week—From May 18th to
25th, Hamilton, Canada, enjoyed an intensive
week of play each day of which was filled with

270 WORLD AT PLAY

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND
PITCHING

HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write for

free instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.

DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-

cessories are the choice of profes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent cons’rruc-
tion—their high quality materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4610 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. MINN.

sports and games of various kinds. On the
opening day a boys’ fishing contest was held
for boys between ten and fourteen years of age.
Baseball'contests, a community street dance,
soccer, lacrosse, tug of war, bowling, horse-
shoe pitching and a great variety of other activ-
ities made up the program. Bicycle races were
run for the entire week, and there was a pro-
gram of roller skating conducted in all sections

of the city.

A Recreation Department for Wauwatosa—
\Vauwatosa, Wisconsin, a community of 25,000
people, recently voted 4,117 to 2,994 in favor
of a recreation department under the Wiscon-
sin law. The summer playground program
will continue as before, and the budget from
the new tax levy will be made available on
January 1, 1936. By this time the two—mill tax
producing approximating $6,000 will provide
for the employment of a full time superintend-
ent of recreation.

A New Playground in New York—A play-
ground and a one story service building with

 

dressing rooms will be constructed on property
recently acquired by John D. Rockefeller, Jr.,
from St. Luke’s Hospital. The property will be
developed in harmony with other buildings on
that block, including the Riverside Church of
which Harry Emerson Fosdick is pastor and
the adjacent edifices of the Union Theological
Seminary. The new building will be of stone
and concrete with a base 73 by 25 8/10 feet. It
will be designed by the architect planning the
new cloister museum which Mr. Rockefeller is
building in Fort Tryon Park for the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art. The plans have been filed
by the Riverside Church as owner. The cost
of the improvement is estimated by the organi-
zation at $45,000.

Day Camps in Pittsburgh—The City Coun-
cil of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,‘ has appropri-
Med-$10,000 for day camp activities in the city
parks for undernourished children. The camp
at Schenley Park, previously under the direc-
tion of the Federation of Social Agencies, this
year will be under the jurisdiction of the Bu-
reau of Recreation.

Oakland's Recreation Week—In May, Oak-
land, California, celebrated Recreation Week—
a week of open house on the playgrounds, of
baseball, track sports, boating, golf, commu-
nity theater and many other activities. The
junior chamber of commerce, the forum, service
clubs and many other organizations gave their
support to this highly successful effort to in-
terest the public in the recreation program and
give the citizens of Oakland definite informa-
tion about the facilities available. Writing
editorially of the week, the Tribune-Sun says:
“We start tomorrow demonstrating our zeal
and enthusiasm, our equipment and program.
We show the place ofl clean sportsmanship in
the community life and that in supplying it for
the development of young character and for its
addition to civic health and happiness, we are
fulfilling a definite obligation.”

What's Your Hobby?—Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin, has a Hobby Clubs Council organized to
stimulate interest in wholesome recreational,
educational and handcraft hobbies. In its pub-
licity bulletin it lists seventeen groups of pe0ple
who are pursuing hobbies of various kinds, in-
cluding sketching, collecting, hiking, boat

WORLD AT PLAY 271

.l
V1  £62792 TENNIS NETS

  

O Page Stainless Steel Tennis Court Nets
represent a marked forward step in the
reduction of court maintenance without
sacrifice of "let ball" action and net "fee ."
Net tension can be adjusted to control re-
bound without affecting height. Canvas
covered top affords same playing condi-
tions as a cord net. All wires are abso-

PAGE STEEL 8. WIRE DIVISION OF AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, INC., MUNESSEN, PA.

    

lutely smooth—player or ball cannot be
injured. Once installed it can remain in
place all year. Special fittings are avail-
able for use on existing wood posts. Page
Stainless Steel Tennis Court Nets will more
than pay for themselves in reduced up-
keep. Send for special folder—get the
whole story. «

 

 

building, chess, and other interests. The bul-
letin gives the name of the individual in each
group to whom anyone interested may apply.

Speedway Races—The Salvation Army of
San Francisco, California, met with success in
conducting speedway races in which pushmo-
biles, scooters, coasters, skipmobiles and char-
iots were featured. Over three hundred boys
and girls participated in the event which, it is
estimated, cost only $15. The awards were
made at an evening’s program at which the
band supplied musical numbers and boys and
girls who did not take part in the races put on

a special entertainment.
|

A Course in Nautical Affairs — A novel
course offered this spring by the Los Angeles,
California, Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment was one designed to impart nautical in—
struction to amateur skippers of sailing craft.
Beginning April 4th eight sessions were held at
the Los Angeles swimming stadium auditor-
ium. Outstanding experts, among them naval
architects, gave lectures on boat building, nom—
enclature, sailing tactics, and similar matters.

The Plight of Youth—The annual report of
the Division of Child Care of the Catholic
Charities of the New York Archdiocese esti—
mates that 7,400,000 boys and girls are growing
up in homes supported by public relief allow-—
ances and that of 6,000,000 who have left
schools and colleges since 1929 less than one-
third have found employment. The report
points out that “the ruinous depression at the
outset struck at the security of our children
with bewildering force, and the numberless
forms of individual 'breakdown followed in
rapid succession.” The report warns that one
of the most lasting effects of the depression
will be the adverse one of enforced idleness
upon the morale of the youth of today.

The New Haven Hobby Show—From May
13th to 19th the League of Women Voters of
New Haven, Connecticut, held a hobby show
at the Timothy Dwight House in which some
unusually interesting articles were shown un—
der the general classifications of nature craft,
music, dramatic art, science, fine arts, garden-
ing, handcraft and collecting. The schools en-
tered wholeheartedly into the project, and pre-

272 A FEW OF AMERICA’S OUTDOOR THEATERS

liminary private exhibits by the pupils were
held from which the most interesting entries
were selected to be shown at the hobby show.
Among these were a collection of 5,000 lead
soldiers from all over the world and a minia-
ture circus which a high school boy had spent
nine -years in building and assembling.

In addition to the exhibits, there were daily
demonstr'ations of various kinds, one of the
most interesting of which was a hobby theater
where movies were shown and where each
evening 5a talk on a different phase of the mov—
ing picture industry was given.

Tour Conducting As a Form of Recreation
Leadership—The Chicago, Illinois, Recreation
Commission has issued for the benefit of the thou-
sands of people who are obliged to stay in town
during the summer an illustrated booklet. “Rec-
reation in Chicago,” depicting an array of places to
go and things to do in the home town. To facili-
tate the use and enjoyment of Chicago’s attrac-
tions, classes in tour conducting are being ar-
ranged by the Emergency Educational Program
in conjunction with the Recreation Commission.
The classes, which meet weekly, are in the art and
practice of tour conducting, and the two hour
classes in “How to Conduct Tours” will alternate
with illustrative tours under the leadership of the
teacher of the classes. Supplied with the booklets
published by the Commission, including a map
showing the places mentioned, members of the
classes will be able to take their friends and
neighbors on tours that will introduce Chicagoans

to Chicago.

A Few of America's Outdoor Theaters

. (Continued from page 236)

the wooded aspect. Evergreens and shrubs will
be added as the planting plan progresses, for a
project of this magnitude cannot be completed in
one season. Fall is eagerly awaited so that the
transplanting can be continued. Nature has done
its share in helping, and even the grass seems will—
ing to do its part in covering the raw ground with
its green velvet.

Back stage planting will provide adequate
screening of the actors and their paraphernalia.
Plenty of space for thousands of motor cars has
been provided. This part of the planning appears
to have been unusually well thought out.

There is no question as to the usefulness of the

.amphitheater. It was not merely a whim con-

ceived by the energetic far—seeing park superin-
tendent, Donald Gordon, but the’-response to a
need for some such stadium or auditorium voiced
by school groups, churches, and especially the
Chamber of Commerce who felt such a project
to be an investment and not an expense.

Fortunately expenditures have been modest.
\Vithin the area of Lincoln Park where the
amphitheater has been built all the native stone
needed has been quarried. Like many other com—
munities Oklahoma City has had large numbers
of men on the relief rolls. Projects such as this
have given the citizens permanent improvement
to last for years to come, and will serve as a sat—
isfactory answer to the alleged wastefulness of
depression spending.

The park system of Oklahoma City has utilized
all classes of relief labor, one service being to ac-
commodate large numbers of transients when the
city was swamped with them and the Transient
Bureau hard put to provide an outlet. The splen-
(lid cooperation which exists between the county,
state and federal units accounts in large measure
for the progress made.

The Board of Park Commissioners has been
alert to the opportunities and needs of the times.
Its members have been vital factors in bringing
their park system forward to an enviable position
throughout the Southwest.

Planning the Summer Vacation
(Continued from page 244)

view, the Ann Arbor schools have introduced in
the division of social studies a unit on the sum-
mer' vacation. The following are some of the
methods that are being considered in order to de-
velop an intelligent interest and participation in a
wide range of summer activities:

I. Have the children write compositions on
good times in summer at camps, trips, farms and
playgrounds and have the best of them read and
discussed to bring out essential values.

2. Give out available lists of camps of all types
and expenses.

3. Have a consultation period to discuss with
parents and children summer plans.

4. Get up and distribute a directory of points
of interest in the area suitable for trips and
outings.

5. Encourage the formation of Scout and camp
fire groups.

6. Find out what children might spend the va-
cation or a part of it on a farm.

CHICAGO PIONEERS ON NEI‘V FRONTIERS 273

U“

7. Give out a list of playgrounds and swimming
facilities. '

8. Send home a mimeographed list of summer
suggestions to parents.

9. Encourage home economic girls to take
charge of the cooking at home and industrial arts
boys to fix up about the house.

IO. Put on moving picture programs of an edu-
cational nature once or twice a week.

It seems not unlikely that such a program may
increase the days given to the four activities
studied from 12.1 to 15 or 20 for the summer
without its costing the city anything and that the
points of view developed may be of service all
through life.

Chicago Pioneers on New Frontiers
(Continued from page 247)
standards and more perfect mastery of the sub-

ject there will ultimately come a great renaissance
of art, this production furnished such a proof.
In fact, it afforded a demonstration that such an
art renaissance is actually in our midst, and un-
der way. The music of this occasion, the drama,
and the dance, were all most creditable.

Devel0pment of the music program is similarly
moving in the direction of helping people to do
things for themselves. Development of the ath—
1etic program is marching in the direction of en-
listing community sponsorship through organiza-
tion of athletic associations in each of the park
centers, and out in the communities themselves
many of the events which heretofore we have our-
selves undertaken and carried through are now
being turned over to citizen groups as their own.
Last year’s Hallowe’en observance was largely
sponsored by the business men’s organizations in
a number of our communities where once we ottr-
selves put on the Hallowe’en program. This move-
ment toward community sponsorship has led us
to question whether, as part of our service to the
recreation needs of a community, we should not
actually include in our thinking provision for ser-
vice to that leisure demand that one be of service
to his fellows. affording opportunity for that
spirit of service to exercise itself, just as we pro-
vide opportunity for the desire to play baseball to
exercise itself.

It has required courage to break away from
tradition and institute new patterns of community
service, just as it has required courage to appro-
priate a suflicient departmental budget. Charges
of “boondoggling” have been made, and accusa-
tions of extravagance have been voiced. Only an

 

  

EverWear. Otters the Safest
Merry -Wave-Stride

Fully covered by patents which in-
clude the many exclusive safety fea-
tures. this Merry-Wave-Stride insures
complete safety to the children in your
parks and recreation grounds. Ever-
Wear Merry-Wave-Stride gives more
action and exercise than any piece of
equipment ever made.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  

Before you make the selection of any
new equipment. you owe it to your
children to install the safest equip-
ment . . . your choice can be no other

than EverWear’s Patented Stride. Ask

us for complete details.

Use Spring Rubber Safety
Seats For Your Swings

An ingenious ar-
rangement of rub-
bet and steel. pat-
ented by EverWear.
which eliminates
all the hazards of
former type swing
seats. This EverWear seat is soft. springy.
resilient, has remarkable safety features.
strength and durability. Priced low enough
to meet your budgets. Write us for details.

Our complete new catalog is
available without obligation.
Ask for it.

The EverWear Mtg. Co.
I Springtield, Ohio, U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker

of playground, beach and pool apparatus: a
complete line of the SAFEST and most DURA-

BLE recreation apparatus made.

 
   

274 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets.

Z Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The Parents’ Magazine, July 1935
Youth Follows New Trails, by G. G. Telfer

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, July 1935

An Educational Use of Leisure—An Editorial, by
Daniel L. Marsh
Your Second Spring, by Anne Frances Hodgkins

Public Management, July 1935

Municipal Recreation for the New Leisure, by
, Weaver W. Pangburn

Hygeia, July 1935

Recreation for Convalescent Children, by Sophia
Potgieter

The Farm Journal, July 1935
Make ’Em and Sell ’Em, by Charlotte Miller Temple
Pointers on 1935 Picnics, by Nellie Ryder Gates

PAMPI—ILETS

Annual Report of the Memorial Community Building,
Goldsboro, N. C., 1934

First Annual Report of the Department of Public Recre-
ation, Winston-Salem, N. C., 1934-1935

City of Calgary, Canada, Parks Department Annual
Report, 1933

administration firinly convinced of the need and
value of the program could have faced these
charges with serenity, and only the clarity of
business judgment and confidence of executive
control of a thoroughly businesslike administra-
tion could have dared go so far, feeling assured
that it would know where to draw the line and
go no further in public expenditure.

The Congress of this year is invited to Chicago
to inspect for itself these developments, and to
meet the business man now devoting himself ex-
clusively to public service, under whose adminis-
tration one of the largest park organizations in
America is breaking new trails and writing a new
page in the history of recreation service in Chi-
cago. It is writing that page in the light of a fine
tradition of public service over the years, because
of a plant adapted to new forms of pioneering,
because it is necessarily in a period of transition
in adapting to the recent consolidation, but also
because, sitting on the Board of Commissioners
are men who believe in service as the end and
justification of any park expenditure. and in the
executive chair as chief administrator sits George
Donoghue, the General Superintendent, sensitive

to every consideration «of public use and enjoy-

ment of park properties, active of imagination in
devising better modes and forms of responding to
the human needs of the times, experienced in
years of park administration where recreation was
the underlying purpose, and himself an enthusi-
astic supporter of everything which makes for
public enjoyment—from athletics, in which he is
nationally known as President of the Central A.
A. U., to landscape, architectural and mural art,
and to engineering in its social, no less than in its
material, implications. He attacks, with the same
infectious enthusiasm, the problems of shore pro-
tection in combatting Lake Michigan’s storms,
and the problems of a boys’ group wrestling with
television, or with a wind tunnel for testing their
model planes.

Leadership as dynamic as is now at the helm in
the Chicago Park system makes of that system a
laboratory in which earnest thought is put to
practical test. The invitation of the city, extended
to thinkers and workers in the field of recreation,
is that they come to this year’s Congress with
their problems, and their hopes, that we may avail
ourselves of criticism and suggestion, of new ideas
and late experiences throughout the nation, to
make this laboratory serve not only its local pur-
poses, but also the recreation movement as a.
whole, in its evolving.

Oklahoma City’s Weekly Community

Programs
(Continued from page 248)

which may be shifted from place to place as
needed. The public address systems, which are
also of the movable type, are donated by various
business firms.

Securing nine pianos for use at the major play-
grounds, which are moved to minor playgrounds
on occasion, required some diplomacy. A willing
and enthusiastic group of park patrons organized
under the name of Playground Recreation Coun-
cil was given $225 by the Park Department with
which to secure the pianos. At first the idea of
obtaining a piano for $2 5 was rather baffling but
before long the committee appointed to work on
the program had found enough piano owners who
wanted to sell for $25 to supply the need. Re—
peated hauling of the pianos from one park to
another required the building of heavy braces and
handles for the pianos. The moving is now done
so expertly that even after repeated moving the
pianos do not get out of tune.

I
1
l
l
l

1

NATION-WIDE RECREATION 275

Each week’s program has a special theme which
is carried out in the playground handcraft rooms
and on the community night programs. For in—
stance, there is Sports W eek when the week’s ac-
tivities in handcraft are centered upon making
games and equipment for sports of various kinds.
The activities culminate in city-wide tournaments
and the community programs are filled with sport
songs and dances. Doll Week is another example.
In their handcraft groups the children make dolls
and dresses which are displayed during the com-
munity program when nursery rhymes and songs
and dances of the parade of the wooden soldier

type are featured.

Nation-Wide Recreation

(Continued from page 252)
tivities back on the parents and the home. It was

observed that there was a heightened morale in
the home, a better understanding and cooperation
between parents and children, and a marked pick-
up in the cultural interests of the parents. Obvi—
ously the constructive recreation spirit learned by
the child at play is brought back home.

These surveys, while not strictly recreation
service projects themselves, are mentioned here
to give an idea of the scope and seriousness of the
recreation problem in America as envisaged by
FERA. Also they are offered as evidence of the
Relief Administration’s willingness to cOOperate
with all agencies in an effort to set up a com—
prehensive and sound recreation program.

Art Projects

N 0 review of recreation service projects would
be complete without mentioning those devoted to
the arts. Here it was not only a matter of giving
necessary employment to a particular class of
needy, or of providing a recreational service, but
more than that, these projects were created to
carry on the art—cultural life of this country
through a critical period. Their success is evident
on every hand. The walls of our public buildings,
schools, state institutions, are decorated or hung
with pictures that have stimulated native Ameri—
can art to new heights. With over twenty-five
hundred professional actors in their casts, the
drama projects have presented the popular and
classical stage to audiences of unemployed num—
bering hundreds of thousands. More than 9,500
musicians and music teachers made destitute, have
been put to work for the benefit of the public.
They are again teaching, or they are incorporated
in one of the 150 orchestras, ensembles, or the

  

-_-......

Brigh

SUNSHINE

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dustl It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing. '

An application afSolvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Salvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The phatamicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust

treated with Salvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treo tment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on yOJr playgrounds. Send today for
full information and booklet No. II59.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
1. a. Alkolies and Chemical Products Monufoc.
kj tured by The Solvoy Process Company
40 Rector Street New York

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

FLAKE—77%—80%

 

 

 

276

YOU‘NEED

LEU’UEE

THE MAGAZINE OF A THOUJ‘AHD DIVERIIONI

For Inspiration and Ideas in Planning Your
Leisure-Time Programs

CAMP. playground. and recreation directors. leach-
ers and group leaders will find LEISURE full of

helpful suggestions and practical projects.

LEISURE is the only magazine catering to the leisure
tastes of every member of the family. It is educational
without being scientific. You find new introductions to

Games—Sports. Hobbies—Collec-
iions, Booltsl Photogra-
phy . . . Creative Arts.
Puzzles. Dramatics.
T r a v e l' Music, Hand
Crafis. Nature S’rudyl
and many other activities.

 

INSTRUCTIVE
ENTERTAINING
STIMULATING

 

 

Read what outstanding Recreation Directors, Edu-
cators“ and Civic Leaders say about LEISURE:

“After looking over the sample copy of LEISURE recently sent
this ol‘lice. 1 wish to place our order for two annual subscrip—
tions to the magazine. I believe it will be a 'gold mine' of
program material for use with our groups." R. W. Robertson.
Recreation Dept.. Oakland. Calif.

“LEISURE is a distinct contribution to the still pioneer Ameri-
can which has come to a new frontier of life—Leisure Time."

Howard L. White. Director of Recreation. Heckscher Foundation
for Children.

“A magazine like yours can do much to save our young people
from finding unwholesome outlets for their surplus energies by
putting before them in attractive and authoritative form the
many fields of activities which will satisfy their cravings foe ad-
venture. for creation. for companion. and for leadership." Ernest
Hermann. Dean. Sargent School of Physical Education.

“We bave enjoyed the magazine very much and feel that it is

of value in programs such as ours." Louise Goodyear. Girl Scout
Peace House, Buffalo. N. Y.

“Your magazine has been recommended to me’ by the State De-
partment of Education." F. A. Bell. Supt.. Amador County
Schools. Cal.

"A copy of LEISURE in every home would be a Godsend to .

folks who have never before had the time for recreation. nor tbe
education for its use." R. A. Hoyer. Director. Dept. of Boy
Guidance. Graduate School. Notre Dame University.

Special Offer to Readers of Recreation

I5 months only - $I.OO

—_H—HH_H——_-—_—m—-——“

FILL IN YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS. SEND BILL.
CHECK. STAMPS OR M. 0. (Canadian or Foreign Post—50c.

extra). R
LEISURE. 683 Atlantic Ave.. Bosion. Mass. '33::

Please s'eud your special 15 months odee—-—Sl.00 euclosed.

NA TION-WIDE RECREA TION

150 bands, that have brought music free to mil-
lions of our jobless, who could not otherwise
afford it.

This but touches on some of the high spots of
the recreation service projects. One could go on
at great length dwelling on others of equal im-
portance. It is impossible to give a complete cen-
sus of all of them. Equally impossible to give an
exact census of the workers, the participants or
the audiences. Many of the projects are seasonal ;
many change quickly to meet the changing de-
mand. A number of them shift in and out of the
various Emergency Relief Administrations, keep-
ing pace with their ability to find local or private
support. In 1934, as a result of the use of Emer-
gency funds and leaders, 1,025 communities re—
ported recreation services. This number does not

include the existing local services which are sup-
plemented by FERA funds.

Enriched Programs for the Future

\Vhen the need for the national organization
of work giving is over, it is hoped that various
state, local, and private agencies will again take
up their full responsibilities for the continuation
of an adequate recreation program. They will in-
herit from the Federal Government a vastly ex—
panded physical plant; a wealth of certain knowl-
edge, gained through practical hrst-hand experi-
ence in the operation of recreation activities, and a
stalwart legion of leaders well trained in every
phase of public recreation service. o

Also, as a part of their heritage from the Fed-
eral Government, they will find an advanced, more
intelligent, appreciation of the value of construc-
tive recreation on the part of the general public.
Recreation, once thought of as idling and wasting
time, has become a social necessity. It has become
the positir'e refreshment and enrichment of mind
and body. Its value in these terms cannot be over-
stated. It is not a ciJrative for all our ills—our
crimes, our economic maladjustment, our social
problems—but it is a hrm basis for social and in—
dividual reconstruction.

The Dance in the Recreation Program
{Continued from page 255)

enjoyed. Programs of this type may be sponsored
on playgrounds and at day and summer camps.

What Place Shall Dancing Have in
Our Program?

Music leaders employedby recreation depart-

A CITY BUILDS TEAMS FROM GANGS

ments have devoted much of their time and energy
to raising standards of instruction and instilling
an appreciation of fine music within their groups.

,This has resulted in more worthwhile programs

for both instructor and participants. There are,
however, directors of recreation who feel that to
take responsibility for the promotion of dancing is
outside their field. Shall we as teachers develop
dancing to its fullest extent or shall we be con-
tent to conduct it free of technique. carrying it on
for its recreative values as we do with community
singing? Will the recreation department fail to
seize this opportunity for a program which offers
a fertile field of development?

A City Builds Teams from Gangs

(Continued from page 257)
part of the season and later shifted to the after—

noon. Boys form a habit of late sleeping as vaca-
tion advances and the success of a schedule may
depend upon even such a relatively minor point.

The. dens ex machina of any program is the
director—the good one who can start things by
suggestion and demonstration, guide its progress
and bring it to a successful conclusion. By ex—
ample he can create personal pride in honest
achievement and make the playground a vital
place in leisure time education. There are too
many sins, such as favoritism, poor officiating,
disinterest and bad sportsmanship.

The final test of any program is its popularity.
We checked impressions with seven of our best
team and gang leaders as a matter of mutual ad-
vantage. We uncovered minor differences, some
which have been mentioned already, but the unani-
mous opinion was to “retain the League by all
means.” Both players and directors are planning
for that bigger and better third year of the Junior
League. '

Westchester County's Recreation Camp
(Continued from page 259)
act, and then, in the cast, we need ten girls. We

have some cheese-cloth left over from the play
last week—enough for three costumes. Those of
you who want to act or help finish the last act or
make the costumes will find us under the big
maple this morning.” And “under the big maple”
in a few minutes will be seen a group of perhaps
twenty girls. intently enjoying the preparations
for a theatrical production.

“Every boy and girl has the power of imagina-
tion,” Mr. Cranford and his aides believe. “It
needs only to be released. Given the opportunity,

10
\l
\1

Partners in Play

0 “This book is full of the most

' alluring recipes for dances, par-
ties, stunts and picnics, and of
kindly, tolerant and knowing
comment,” says Marjorie Bar-
stow Greenbie in her book The
Arts of Leisure.

0 If you have not purchased your
copy of this booklet describing
the recreational activities which
young men and young women
can enjoy together, send for a

copy immediately.

Price $.75

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

the child discovers for himself his special apti-
tudes. Friendly competition between youngsters
develops self-assurance and other traits that might
remain latent in the narrow protection of the
home or the busy discipline of the school room.
The councilors, constantly on the alert to provide.
their charges with the most varied kind of ex-
perience, add to their own store of eXperience.”

Such is the good standing of the camp from
the viewpoint of the progressive educator that
Teachers College of Columbia University will
this year cooperate with the VVestchester County
Recreation Commission in conducting a training
course at Croton for graduate students in camp
leadership. Twelve young men and women,
selected from more than one hundred applicants
from many states will live at the camps this sum—
mer as student councilors, and will receive eight
points of graduate credit for the course.

Sioux City's New Amphitheater

(Continued from page 261)
a level stage for drama. Footlights are also in—

. cluded. ' e

The building itself is inspirational in its beauty

278 SOME INDIAN GAMES

and blends harmoniously with the setting. With
it as an incentive the cultural tone of the city’s
recreational activities should mount. Leisure time
spent there either as a spectator or a participant
should be time spent with a definite gain for the
individual citizen. Public meetings and community
projects carried out in such harmonious surround-
ings will without doubt reflect its influence.

Some Indian Games

(Continued from page 263)
Nora: The player carried should weigh considerably
less than the player who must carry him.

Running the Gauntlet (A Sioux Indian Game).
The Indians form two rows of “Braves” side by
side with arms outstretched. (The outstretching of
the arms is to arrange the distance between the
men. Arnis are dropped to the sides as soon
as this is completed.) The rows face each other
about four or five feet apart. This alley between
the two rows is the path to be traveled by the vic-
tim or the man who is “it.”

The victim is ruin down through the two lines,
the braves on each side being allowed to hit the
victim with their war clubs. (Use beaters or cloth
wrapped around newspapers for war clubs.) The
victim sometimes wins the greatest respect from
the braves because of his ability to “take it” and
sometimes from his ability to swat the braves as
they go down the gauntlet. This brave victim is
sometimes made a member of their tribe. Some-
times the weaklings who could not “take it” were
burned at the stake.

Wela (A Hopi Game). The Indians made h00ps
out of branches and rolled them between players
who sat facing one another. As the h00ps passed
the players they shot arrows through them.
Sometimes these hoops were smaller sized rings,
from 7 to 10 inches in diameter, made out of dry
corn husks tightly wrapped with cord. In place of
arrows, darts were made of corn cobs with feath-
ers stuck in the top of them. Each team has its
turn, and as the hoop passes the players they at-
tempt to throw their darts through the ring or
hoop. Each successful throw counts one point.
The team making the most number of points in

ten rolls wins the game.
NOTE: For playground adaptation of this game, bar-
rel hoops or rubber tires can be used.

When Sally in Our Alley Goes to

Summer Camp
(Continued from page 265)

stunts, and lights are out at ten o’clock—a busy

day but not a regimented one. The desire to do
as the group does checks any tendency to clique
on national lines that might develop among the
children of German, Polish, Spanish, Italian,
French, Irish, Russian, Greek and Albanian na-
tionality that attend Camp Skullbone. An Indian
powwow circle where Indian songs and dances are
performed contributes to the Americanization
influence. The camp is unaffiliated with any or-
ganized movement and is entirely free from re-
ligious or sectarian interests. It has an appeal for
all religions and all nationalities, who' can join
freely in admiration of the American Indian.

The success of Camp Skullbone, established
three years ago on a tract donated by Sam Plant,
is indicated by the fact that last summer 1.600
children enjoyed a week each at the camp. The
pleasure and education -derived by these children
are unlimited, and although many of the little tots
are glad at the end of a week to climb into Camp
Skullbone’s yellow and black bus that takes them
back to “Mom” again, they all look forward to
another summer at camp.

With the Civilian Conservation Corps
(Continued from page 266)

1935, by CCC personnel, at approximately
$428,000,000. The records show that the Depart-
ment of Ariculture evaluates the work done under
its supervision at $350,000,000. The Department
of the Interior places a value of $71,000,000 on
the CCC work carried on under its supervision.
The value of the work completed under the direc-
tion of the War Department is estimated at
$7,000,000.

Youth Versus Society
(Continued from page 266)

no evidence had been produced to substantiate the
charge that futile treatment of young offenders is
frequently colored by political consideration.

Judge Brennan passed sentence as follows:

“I sentence Society to one year of probation
and remand it into the custody of General Proba-
tion Officer Joseph P. Murphy of Essex County
for that period. And I limit the term to one year
so that Youth may obtain a speedy remedy for
the defects that it has so ably proven.”

It was interesting to note that the findings of
the recreation survey made by Eugene T. Lies of
the staff of the National Recreation Association
were widely used throughout the trial.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Camp Dramatics

By Nina B. Lamkin. Samuel French, New York. $.50.
HIS booklet, with its discussion of the types of dra-
matics suitable for camp use and its suggested cere-

monials, festivals and pageants, plays, Indian material,
stunts, poems and pr_0grams of various kinds, should be
exceedingly valuable to camp directors. The bibliography
and lists of source material—and there are many—are
complete and carefully selected.

Activities in Girl Scout Camps

Girls Scouts, Inc., 570 Lexington Avenue, New York.
$.50. .

NE of the most attractive camp publications we have

seen comes from Girl Scouts, Inc., where the Camp
Advisory Staff and the Program Division have collected
from individual camp reports material which they have
felt would be of interest to camp directors and other
leaders and have issued it in a mimeographed, profusely
illustrated book which is noteworthy both from the point
of view of content and appearance. The subject matter
has to do with nature activities in camp, handicraft,
music, camp fires and dramatics. Each section is accom-
panied by a bibliOgraphy and list of source material.

Character Education in the Summer

Camp Ill

Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. $.75.
THE report of the sixth annual camp institute held at

George Williams College, Chicago, March 29-31, 1935,
under the auspices of the Chicago Council of Social
Agencies and George Williams College is incorporated in
this booklet. A number of leaders in camping and allied
fields have contributed to this practical booklet on setting
standards in the summer camp, which is divided into
three main parts: Setting Standards in the Summer
Camp; Community Aspects of Camp Planning; Camping
.and the Camper.

Let’s 60 Places

Prepared and issued by New York Adult Education
Council, 366 Madison Avenue, New York City. $.10.

HERE is a list of things of varied interest to see and
to do in and around New York, grouped under three
classifications. The first is headed “Sightseeing Points in
and Near Manhattan” and includes airports and steam—
ship lines, botanical gardens, zoos, buildings, church'es,
commercial plants, museums, historic places and similar
points of interest. Next comes “Outdoor Activities” with
camping places, baseball games, swimming, golf, tennis,

boat trips, walks and hikes. Under “Miscellaneous” are
listed concerts, free educational motion pictures, lectures,
reading and similar interests. The bulletin should be of
keen interest to those who as Dr. John H. Finley says in
his foreword, “have chosen this as our city whether we

come from foreign lands or from other parts of our own
country.”

Model Laws for Planning Cities,

Counties and States: Including
Zoning, Subdivision Reg-
ulation and Protection of

Official Map

By Edward M. Bassett, Frank B. Williams, Alfred Bett-

man and Robert Whitten. Harvard University Press,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

HIS report recommends model legislation for local,

municipal, county and state planning, including control
of zoning and real estate subdivisions. Mr. W'hitten, in
discussing the suggested laws, emphasizes the need for
legislation which would permit planning and develop-
ing natural neighborhoods as a unit and points out some
of the ways in which zoning might make desirable plan-
ning and deveIOpment impossible later if zoning is ac-
cepted and put into practice before other planning fea-
tures. He believes that a governmental unit should be
permitted to exercise any one of the powers outlined
only if it accepts responsibility for exercising all. Of
particular interest to recreation workers is the fact that
all plans and discussions accept the need for includ—
ing recreation areas and Open spaces as a fundamental
part of city planning. They all provide for giving the
community power through properly constituted authori-
ties for insisting upon the setting. aside of reasonable
recreation areas in new sub-developments before such

plats should be accepted by the governmental units con-
cerned.

I

Boats, Airplanes and Kites

By Armand J. LaBerge. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
IllinOIS. $2.00.

DETAILED instructions and complete working drawings

with photographs of projects in process and com-
pleted make this book of practical value to everyone in-
terested in these three handcraft projects. Part I contains
ten chapters devoted to model sailing yachts and motor
boats, ranging from a 12 inch sailboat to a 38 inch 'boat.
Part II covers tailless kites, French war kite, box kite,

and kite tournaments, while Part III presents model air-
planes of different types.

279

280 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The American Way.
By John W. Studebaker. McGraw-Hill Book Com-

pany, New York. $2.00. . . o o
It was two years ago that the city-wide experiment in

adult education known as the Des Moines public forums
was initiated under the supervision of Dr. Studebaker,
now United States Commissioner of Education and for-
merly Superintendent of Schools in Des Moines. The
experiment was made possible by a live year grant from
the Carnegie Corporation with the sponsorship of the
American Association for Adult Education. In this book
Dr. Studebaker has given us an account of the experi-
ment, but what is more important, he has also given an
interpretation of what that experiment means. For the
book outlines his belief that in the spread of devices
for free discussion under public auspices lies the solution
of the ever recurring chief problem of government under
a democracy—the maintenance of an enlightened and in-
terested body politic. This is, he firmly believes, "the

American way.”

Spalding's Official Base Ball Guide 1935.
Edited by John B. Foster. Spalding's Athletic Li-
brary. No. 100x. $.35.
The ofncial base ball guide for 1935 is a comprehensive

volume full of news, records, averages and other ma-
terial of keen interest to the base ball fan. There are a
number of articles on various phases of the game. The
rules themselves. with explanatory notes compiled exclu-
sively for the guide by Mr. Foster, are in a convenient
detachable form for ready reference.

Municipal Year Book, 1935.
Edited by Clarence E. Ridley and Orin F. Nolting.
International City Managers’ Association, 850 East
58th Street. Chicago, Illinois. $4.00.
More than 100 pages of this comprehensive Year Book

for American cities are devoted to a resume of signifi-
cant events and developments in the various helds of
municipal administration in 1934, each summary prepared
by an outstanding authority. New sections added this
year include one on local government units; data on the
96 metrOpolitan districts in the United States; detailed
state by state discussion of legal classes of cities and
forms of city government which may be adopted; activi-
ties and services of state municipal' leagues. municipal
personnel and retirement data; activities of professional
organizations of public ofncials, and services rendered to
municipal ofncials by federal agencies and national organ—
izations of public ofncials. The Year Book contains a
great deal of important data about each of the 960 cities
with a population of more than 10,000 in the United
States. The new section on municipal personnel gives the
number of employees in each city, salary and wage ex-
penditures, and salary cuts and restorations since 1930.

What to Do in New Haven and Vicinity.
Council of Social Agencies, New Haven, Conn, $.15.

One of the most comprehensive directories of educa-
tional and recreational facilities as yet brought to our
attention is What to Do In New Haven and Vicinity—A
Guide to Leisure the- publication of which was made pos-
sible through the work of a special committee. When
the Community College was organized as an FERA pro-
ject for the unoccupied youth of New Haven, a group
of FERA workers was assigned to gather information
about the adult educational and recreational facilities of

the city. The results of this study have been published
in this booklet, which is divided into three parts. Part I
lists alphabetically recreational and educational activities
with brief information as to the organizations which offer
them. Part II, also alphabetically arranged, gives fuller
information about the organizations, while Part III offers
on “special pages” more comprehensive information about
facilities and activities classihed under a number of head—
1ngs. Dr. Henry S. Curtis of Ann Arbor, Michigan, has
frequently stated that one of the best possible SERA
projects is the compilation of a directory of this type,
possibly broadened to include county, state or even a sec-

tion of the country. New Haven has demonstrated the
practicability of such a plan.

Dennison'c Handicraft Manual for
Recreational Leaders.

Central Craft Studio Educational Service. Denni-
son’s, 220 Fifth Avenue, New York. $1.00.

Play leaders interested in handcraft projects in which
crepe paper is used will want to know of the new Handi-
craft Manual in which directions are given for the follow-
ing prOIects: Marionettes and Stages; Crepebraid Craft;
Clothesline Crepe Weaving: Crepeclay Modeling (Pot—
tery, Mask Moulds, Relief Mans) ; Glitter-Craft; Tooled
Paper: Pulled Crepe Craft (Crepe Paper Radia); Tap-
estry—Craft: Crocheting with Crepe; Mosaic Craft:
Dennv-Dogs: Tiibe Craft; Miscellaneous (Lampshades,
Apollo Metal. Nutsy Bird). The book also contains
printed pamphlets on crafts. costumes. flowers and par-
ties. The service offered with the Manual includes the

sendiner of new mimeographed material on craft work as
it is published.

 

 

 

thcers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JnsEPH LEE. President

JOHN H. FINLEv, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice'President
ROBERT GARRETT. Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY. Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
\VILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUREE DAVISON. Locust Valley. L. I., N. Y.
MR3. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. H‘lCKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERv, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. Man, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. \VADSWORTH, 111., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WIINANT, Concord, N. H.

MR5. WILLIAM H. \VOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

