 

A Tribute to a Recreation Workeri

day. The spirit of living, of recreation, of joy was carried into his hourly work. Never

did he think of toil as the supreme end of life. We Americans have bowed down be-
fore work, before work for material gain, for getting on in the world as before Baal. 'We as a
nation have worshipped WORK and material gains as our god to whom all should be given.
We have been ready to forego living, to die even before the doctor pronounced us dead, show-
ing our supreme devotion to WORK, to getting on. A great industrialiSt to whom I had
looked up with great reSpect recently in the presence of several educators uttered this blasphemy
against the true God without rebuke: “After all WORK is the great thing in life and next
to work— is preparation for WORK." o

I IE LIVED EVERY DAY. He planned his work so that real living should be possible each

It is after all living that justifies existence and not work. Of course work must be done.
Dishes must be washed. Houses must be built. All this, however, is not the end of man’s exis—
tence. The great blasphemy against our God is to make this beautiful w'orld here and now a
place for Work and Preparation for Work and leave all living to a Heaven that is to come

afterwards.

The man about whom I write loved his work, carried his enjoyment of life into his
hourly work. The spirit of living was in his work all the time. Yet resolutely and of set
purpose he limited his work to regular working hours. He planned, he took time to live with
his wife and his son and his daughter, with his friends, with his neighbors. He kept himself a
part of all that was going on in the great wide world. Nothing human was foreign to him.
From his college days his life boomed. Life was not accidental for himH—snatched on a few oc—
casions. He expected to live and keep on living — no matter what. For him eternal life began

early.

And now that he is gone one cannot feel sorry for him. He had placed himself in the
stream of life unafraid, he had experienced himself most of what life had to give. He had not
waited until he should retire to live -— or thought of real living as something which came in
another world. He carried the spirit of the play, the recreation movement, and it was no ac—
cident that for about twenty years all his working hours had been given to it. He was one of
a small group that for a generation have carried the flag of the recreation movement. The move-

ment was his movement— expressed the fundamental note of his life.

He knew well that just as church spires are much more than spires, so playgrounds,
parks, recreation centers are much more than spaces and buildings, they stand for concern for
living, the play of the human spirit, the invincible nature of man, the poet, the musician, the
artist. the athlete bursting with life to which he must give expression. Their essential message is
that life itself is more than meat, that man is not to be a slave — even though the slavery take

the common American form of self—imposed slavery to work and getting on.

The endowment of the recreation movement today — practically the only endowment
it has —— is the group of men such as be. my friend of whom I write. He had learned how to

live every hour of all his days.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

* In memory of ROY SMITH WALLACE, a member of the staE of the National Recreation Association.

 

OCTOBER I935

 

329

 

4* 1-;
Ann

Courtesy Southern Homes- and Garden:

"For genera’rions in America +he urban pOpula’rions have‘recognized
wi’rh all +heir s’rrivings and go-ge'H'ings +ha+ parks are a necessary con-
comi’ran’r of urban living. Parks have been dedica’red. of’ren wi’rh no
higher mo‘l'ive ’rhan 'I'o sell a rela’red sub-division; +hey have been pro-
mo’red; ’rhey have been acquired by direc’r purchase. by condemna-
'|'ion and by gilr'l'l and 'I'hey have been unloaded on lo fhe ci'l'y. No
ma’r’rer 'how come.' by hook or crook. if is enough if +hey are +here.
When +hey have been once dedica’red +o public recrea’rional use and
have become habi’rual wi’rh +he people ’rhey pleasel +hey will have
given charac’rer and enhancemen’r lo +ha’r same neighborhood or com-
muni’ry of which +hey have become an essem‘ial in’regral par’r."

—C. P. Keyser.
330

 

The Landscape—So Let It Remain!

as “landscaping” the

forest. Neither the '
dictionary nor R o g e t,
in his Thesaurus 0.1“ an-
alysis of ideas, recognize
a verb “to landscape.”
The word is a substan-
tive only. Action in con-
nection with the idea is
expressed by the verb
phrase “landscape gar-
dening,” but a forest is
no place for gardening.

Landscape gardening
is the “art of laying out
grounds and arranging
trees and shrubbery in
such a manner as to pro—
duce a picturesque ef-
fect.” Landscape archi-
tects, to use a phrase
which has come into the
dictionary in the last
twenty years, are those “whose profession it is
to so arrange and modify the effects of natural
scenery as to produce the best aesthetic effect
considering the use to which the tract so
treated is to be put, as by the arrangement of
trees or shrubs, opening or closing of vistas,
and arrangement of roads or paths.”

All this may seem to be a mere study of
terminology, but for those who are thinking
of the forest, the very terms are significant. It
is because in the landscape architect’s work he
has sought to produce effect by the arrange-
ment of trees, with emphasis on the arrange-
ment, that his work has had so little place in
the forest. Landscape architecture has to do
first with building of gardens and the practice
of horticulture. The entire concept must be
changed in dealing with the forest, which after
all is not something to be laid out and arranged
and modified and beautified, but is, as Webster

THERE IS NO such thing

 

- f.
_ .i _|
«- g l

' - .A‘” M"H'_MWP"V‘

Photo by U. 5'. Forest Service

says, “the general aspect
of nature.” The forest
is nature itself, and the
highest, if not the only
duty to be performed by
man in connection with
the forest landscape, is to
see that it is preserved
so far as may be, consid-
ering the use to which
the particular piece of
forest is adapted.

True it is that the for-
est is not merely a place
'in which trees grow, but
that those trees are
g r o w n for lumber and
other economic products.
It is also true that the
f o r e s t has other far-
reaching economic val-
ues, such as the effect of
forest cover on the main-
tenance of proper condi-
tions of stream flow. Fortunately, these uses
(an be served and yet vast areas of forest land
retained in their natural aspect, and even where
the economic uses are dominant, due regard to
preservation of the landscape or natural condi-
tion means only temporary or partial sacrifice
of natural values to the economic need.

 

Recreation in the National Forest

The place that recreation has in National
Forest management is only beginning to be
recognized, but the basic fact remains that
since the beginning of civilization, and in all
countries of the globe, mankind has gone to
the timbered hills for recreation; for hunting,
fishing, and the quiet, the peace, and the beauty
of nature. No use of the woods can be of
greater importance to mankind because this is
direct human use.

The Forester of the United States Indian
331

332 THE LANDSCAPE—SO LET IT REMAIN!

Service, Robert Marshall, in a
recent article in American For-
ests, sets forth the different uses
of the forest for recreation and
places in first priority the main-
tenance of the primitive—that
use which above all others calls
for preservation of the land-
scape, the “natural aspect.” So
far as the National Forests of the United
States are concerned it is believed that the first
official recognition of this need of a definite
program for the maintenance of the wilderness
or the primitive was in the.Southwest when
the Gila W'ilderness, so-called, was established
covering more than a million acres on the Gila
National Forest in New Mexico, with a view
to maintaining this area as free as possible
from human occupancy, and with only such
kind and number of roads and trails as were
necessary for the protection of the area itself
from fire and other destruction. A region whose
mountain slopes are covered with magnificent
timber, but inaccessible to marketi whose can—
yons are deep and all but impassable, but
whose streams are alive with fish and broken
with waterfalls; a region of abundant big game
and highly appropriate to the purpose for
which it was designated, where the natural
aspects have not been modified or the trees
arranged by the art of man! Following this
came the rec0gnition of preservation of the
primitive as a nation—wide policy, and the set-
ting up of primitive areas generally.

In the abstract, public sentiment is in favor
of the primitive
area. Such discus-
sion as has been
given the issue in
_the magazines
and the press has
usually b e e n fa—
vorable, but it
may as well be
rec0gnized fr 0 m
the start that the
wilderness areas
contain the basis
for their own de-
struction, a n d
that, in the con-—
crete, the time will

C 0 me when the Courtesy Milaoukee County Regionol Planning Department

In this article M. M. Cheney of
the United States Forest Serv-
ice make an interesting analysis
of the recreational uses of Na-
tional Forests and asks for the
preservation and restoration oi
on the basis that
it is neither possible nor desir-
able to improve on Nature.

natural beauty

 

lovers of landscape must fight
for their preservation. I do not
mean that the primitive areas
contain economic values when
I say that they contain where-
with to destroy themselves. It
is not a question of bottling up
mineral resources, nor water
p o w e r, since ordinarily the
primitive area can be located to avoid this con-
fiict, and it is not merely a question of commer-
cial timber values, although the time may come
v. hen the gauge will be thrown down for spe-
cific bodies of timber, whether they are more
valuable in place as trees or hauled into the
mill as logs and run out as boards and sawdust.
Beyond this, however, the wilderness area is
a thing of beauty, and it is the very attraction
of it, and the fact that it is a wilderness, that
brings in people over every possible road and
way-to—go, that causes people to drop down in
every little Opening from the air, and brings
into the picture the demand for landing fields
and new roads' and resorts, in order that more
people may more easily come in to enjoy the
beauty of the landscape which would by that
very incoming to a large degree destroy it.
And right here we come to the doctrine of
highest use and whether highest use neces-
sarily means use by the greatest number. It
has been said that for recreation areas on the
National Forest the highest use is for picnic
and campgrounds, since the individual area will
serve more peOple under that form of use than
any other, and this is probably true. On the
other hand, once
again referring to
Marshall’s article,
he states that the
higher use is that
for the private
summer home,
since that form of
occupancy affords
the time and the
seclusion for
bringing out the
higher, more sub-
tle, more spiritual
values of the for-
est. Here again,
fortunately, t h e
forest is large

THE LANDSCAPE -— SO LET IT REA-IAIN! 333

 

Courtesy Milwaukee County Regional Pionning Department

enough and varied enough to provide for both
types of use. Whichever of the two is the
higher use, it goes without saying that the two
uses must be kept separate, and that the areas
along the highway and along the streams
which are used by the larger number of people
for travel and camping and fishing and hunting
must be administered with that use in mind,
and protected against incumbrance by exclu—
sive occupancy. On the other hand, off the
main lines of travel and in the secluded side
draws, hidden away in the timber somewhere,
should be found places for the mountain cabin,
for the summer home of the individual who
has the time and the desire to go into the se-
cluded places and build himself a home. May
the time never come when the forest area of
America is not large enough to provide for
both types of use!

To return to the primitive area, the
argument is made that it is a selfish
thing to set aside these areas and to
keep out of them the roads and other
facilities of travel by which they
might be enjoyed by the entire people
without inconvenience. It is said that
their use is for the limited few who
enjoy the primitive conditions, who
are willing to undergo the privations
of travel with pack outfit, to sleep
under trees and the stars, and to lose
themselves for days or weeks at a
time from the electric lights, mat—
tressed beds and dinner tables of the.
commercial resort. The primitive area

will never measure its value by the
number of its visitors but rather by
its seclusion and unfrequented soli—
tude and the beauties of “the general
aspects of nature.” The more difficult
the wilderness, the greater its attrac-
tion, and the fewer its users, and by
this very measure is the value of the
primitive area to be determined. It
is a case of highest use, but not use
by the greatest number.

But there is a real value, concrete
and definite, spiritual on the one hand,
but human on the other, in the very
existence of a wilderness. Is it not
within the picture that the travelers
along a‘ highway which at no point
enters the wilderness, and the visitors to the resort
which is located outside its area, visitors who never
for a moment consider themselves undergoing the
hardships of travel in the wilderness—is it not
easily conceivable that they will come to those re-
sorts and travel along those highways, and spend
their good money in the community because the
wilderness exists, and because of the thrill they
get from looking back into the mountains and
knowing the wilderness is there?

Road Building

iut the landscape is not limited to the prim-
itive area and the work of the Forest Service
in preserving the landscape very properly ex-
tends to the entire confines of the forest, and
partlcularly to the regions of heaviest use. Here

 

C onrtexy Milwaukee C onnty Regional Planning Department

334 THE LANDSCAPE -——SO LET IT REMAIN!

it becomes necessary to build highways or
roads and to develop resorts or public camp-
grounds. When a road is built through a Na-
tional Forest it is not ordinarily a route of
through travel. The purpose is not, in the
ordinary sense of the word, to get from one
place to another, but rather to travel and en-
joy that travel. This carries with it as a very
first essential that the road shall be built for
the country’s sake, rather than the country
utilized to serve the road. In building a road
through the forest, therefore, the purpose is
not to accomplish a feat of engineering, nor to
select a site which will be easiest of mainte-
nance by the road crew, but rather to build
such a road as will afford the finest view, of
mountain or valley, the best glimpse of the
stream and as little consciousness of road as
possible. The need is not for a fast road with
sweeping curves, long tangents, big fills, high
cut banks, but such a road as fits itself to the
picture, winding and undulating, going whither
it will to see what it can see, restful and only
so wide as must be, with trees overhanging—
as little scar, as little engineering as possible.

With this in mind, road location through
the forest calls for the services not only of the
road engineer or surveyor, but of the landscape
architect. But when the road is built and road-
side beautification is in order, it is no longer
the point of view of the gardener or the archi-
tect that is needed, but that of the lover of
landscape, who sees in natural conditions the
true beauty of the forest. For the roadside
strip, roadside clean—up should be limited to
the removal of diseased and otherwise danger-
ous trees constituting an actual menace to hu-
man life and travel. Trees felled by human
hand in the construction of the road itself or
for other,purposes should be removed, but the
natural fall, the down trees, the picturesque
snags have their part in the natural landscape,
and may be just as beautiful as the living trees.
There is, therefore, such a thing as going too
far in the piling and burning and the raking
and polishing within the roadside strip.

The Campgrounds

For the public campgrounds themselves this
same principle is of first importance. It is true
that human use carries with it wear and tear
and need for sanitation, and that the service

units inevitably .disturb natural conditions.
They must be so built as to serve the purposes
for which they are intended with careful plan-
ning and little changing of the natural land—
scape, and with the effort to subordinate the
improvements and make them a part of the
setting itself. Fireplaces can be built to serve
the purpose and still be kept small and in what
is known as‘ the “rock pile design” without dis-
turbing the natural beauty. \Vhereinatural
rock is available the use of the rock itself for
tables, benches and shelters is attractive. Ser-
vice and~durability are required but with no
sacrifice of natural beauty that can be avoided
Filling and grading merely disturb what nature
has provided. Planting and setting out shrubs
and “arranging trees” should not be necessary
except where natural shade is lacking. The
“aspect of nature” needs no beautification. The
public campgrounds should be c a r e fu l l y
planned and laid out, but not made a garden
or a park; should be complete as to facilities,
but drives, shelters, latrines, tables, and fire-
places can be designed and located to merge
quietly into the natural setting without display
and with only such clearing as it required to
make the camp spots usable.

The principle is far-reaching—it applies to
primitive area. hunting grounds, recreation
area, and roadside strips, the high purpose of
the forester to preserve and restore natural
conditions with never a thought that it is pos-
sible or desirable to improve on Nature. Where
timber operations or other economic uses have
caused disturbance, restOration is a prime ob-
jective. \Vhere the landscape is unmarred—
so let it remain!

“In a Nation faced with an increase in the lei-
sure time available td its citizens, and with need
for providing means of escape from the intensity
of urban life, failure fully to realize the recre-
ational potentialities of the national forests would
be a social error. In regions where other eco-
nomic activities are dwindling rapidly, failure to
develop those recreational uses would be an eco-
nomic injustice to scores of dependent communi-
ties. These circumstances create an obligation to
recognize recreational use as a major purpose and
service of the national forests and to provide
suitably for its deve10pment.”—from the Report
of the Forester, 1935.

 

Connecticut Relives Her Past

ONNECTICUT celebrat—
C ed an important an-
niversary this year
——-its tercentenary—and
the entire state turned back
the pages, reminiscing and
recalling. In the larger
cities elaborate pageantry
marked the year, but perhaps there was nothing
quite so charming among Connecticut's many ob-
servances as those .held in the small communities
where the green, the town hall and frequently the
original colonial buildings have preserved the at-
mosphere of early times.

The Setting

We happened to be in Canaan, a lovely old vil-
lage set in the foothills. last summer, when the
community was holding its celebration. For weeks
the townspeople had been rummaging in attics,
bringing out spinning wheels, cradles, and quilts,
taking quaint bonnets and dresses of a bygone day
out of old trunks. The older residents had pre—
pared articles for the special tercentenary edition
of the paper, giving anecdotes and historical facts
of local interest. There was an air of keen enjoy-
ment in the preparation of the program, with
nothing of the commercial to mar the dignity of a
village making a gracious bow to the past. Dis-

plays in store windows represented every phase of
early American life.

Muskets. oxen
yokes, candlesticks,
old bonnets, pewter
utensils a n d t h e
mellow glow of old
furniture made a
museum of the
main thoroughfare
where shop keep-
ers vied with one
another in their col-
lections a n d a r -
rangements of
treasures. F u n d s
were raised solely
through the sale of

An onlooker at the tercentenary
celebration in an old Connecti-
cut village tells of the charm
and witchery of the past which
were magically brought to life

 

tercentenary buttons;
nothing could have pur-
chased the traditions of
locality.

The celebration was held
on a pleasant August after-
noon. At the appointed
hour we took our places on
the curl) to witness the parade. Everyone who
could came in costume and it was delightful to
recognize many old friends under the sunshades
and broad Puritan hats that appeared in the
crowd. No attempt was made to keep to a par-
ticular period and the costumes representing many
decades gave the effect of bringing together the
people of other times as though drawn by the
familiar words of Old H zmdredth, dear to every

generation.

The Parade of Floats

The parade of floats was of special interest
since it presented an idea that many communities
might find useful. Scenes from the past repro-
duced on the floats turned the parade into a
pageant on wheels. The old hymns rang out sweet-
ly and clearly as the late afternoon sunshine fell
on a meeting house scene, the congregation rever-
ently singing the best loved hymns. A quilting
bee moved before us; a singing school, a colonial

grist mill appeared and one by one many other
scenes moved by,

charming us with
that special grace
and witchery that
belongs to the past.
The blacksmith sh0p
with a lighted forge
and the smith
blowing the bellows
brought back a
scene that has pass-
ed almost entirely
from American life.

After the parade
everyone gathered

on the North Ca-
naan playground to

335

336 CONNECTICUT RELIVES HER PAST

 

Beautiful floats made by enthusiastic
groups proud of their creations were
reviewed by an appreciative audience

chat a while with a demure Puritan, to have a
word with a volunteer fireman of 1839, to pass
the time of day with a lady of the ’60’s. At 5 :30
a program was presented. Several numbers were
furnished by two near-by camps who brought a
musical entertainment and Indian ceremonial
dances. Square dances and several old-fashioned
scenes introduced the theme of the day again.
Later supper was served and we went from booth
to booth filling our plates with a satisfying mix-
ture of periods in the traditional baked beans. the
hamburgers, and the apple pie. After supper
everyone gathered together for community sing-
ing, and even strangers felt that they “belonged”
as they joined in the words of “Auld Lang Syne.”
Dancing on the tennis court brought the day to a
happy close.

This successful celebration, prepared with a
minimum of funds, might offer many useful hints
to other communities. The floats accomplished the
purpose of the historical pageant in reviewing the
past and eliminated much of the labor and time
that a pageant demands. An interesting advantage
of the floats over pageantry is the opportunity
they provide for creative work on the part of the
participants. Each club or church in charge of a

float works enthusiastically to make its float out-
standing, and there is just enough spirit of com-
petition to bring a quick response from everyone
taking part. In the pageant individuals are more
likely to leave the bulk of the responsibility to the
director and to take less personal pride in their
own small parts.

The Order of March

The use of the campers, who were glad to have an op-
portunity to present their drills, songs and dances to
their summer neighbors, is an idea that many villages
might employ. It is interesting to note that a CCC camp
supplied a float in the parade. The order of march of the
parade might supply community leaders with general
ideas in planning their own parades.

Mounted Marshals; Band; Float—a Colonial Town
Meeting; Float—a Colonial House ; The Covered \Vagon;
Float—a Meeting House Scene; Float——an Indian Vil—
lage; Float—an Old-Fashioned Singing School; Float—
1821-1935; Float—a Colonial Grist Mill: Float—Colonial
and Modern Girl Scouts; Float—an Old-Time Country
Store; Parade—a Fire Engine of 1839; An Old-Fash-
ioned Wagon; Float—Spirit of Methodism;Float—an
Italian Vineyard; Float—Winter Sports; Float—an Old-
Fashioned Church Choir; Float—a Forestry Scene; Float
—an Old-Time Blacksmith Shop; Float—an Old-Fash-
ioned School; Float—an Old-Time Quilting Party; Old
Time Transportation.

The following program, not too long and with the
burden of preparation well distributed, is also an inter-
esting model: A Musical Fairy Tale; Indian Ceremonial
Dances; An Old-Fashioned School; A Minuet; A Camp
Meeting Hymn Sing; Old-Fashioned Square Dances.

While charming couples in the costumes
of bygone days mingled with the crowds
greeting their more up-to-date friends

\

 

Home Room Gardeners——

A Garden Club for lndoors

By

KARL H. BLANCH
Chairman
Committee on Nature Gardens
School Garden Association of America

NE 015‘ THE most interesting winter nature-
0 garden club activities is indoor gardening.
There is much that is worthwhile in school
window-gardening. Flowers and plants in the
schoolroom help to create a home-like atmo-
sphere; they add cheerfulness.to the environ-
ment in which the pupil spends most of his
day; in interesting boys and girls in plants
growing in schoolroom windows the basis for
a fine hobby is laid. Pupils who are actively
concerned in the selection, care, propagation
and planting of a classroom garden often trans-
fer this interest to the development of home
flower and vegetable gardens.

But, you ask, what plan of organization shall
we have for these home room gardens? How
shall they be planned and just how shall they
be cared for? The answer is the Home Room

Gardener’s Club.

Home Room Gardeners may be either a club
of its own or an activity group forming a part
of a larger general nature—garden club. The
essential features of organization are few in
number and are very simple. Enroll only those
pupils who are very much interested in plants
and flowers as members of the group, and be
sure that every room in the building is repre-
sented by at least one member. Several club
members in the same room
may divide their special du-
ties, and if a school building
' includes very young pupils in
primary grades, older boys
and girls may be assigned to
assist in these rooms. Select
a Chief Gardener to act as
group leader, choose other

In the April issue of RECREATION

there appeared an article by Mr. tion.

Blanch which told of the organi-
zation of Nature-Garden Clubs in
the upper grades of the schools.
In this number we present a bul-
letin prepared by Mr. Blanch to
help beautify school rooms when
outdoor gardens are impossible.

necessary ochers, secure the friendly coopera-
tion of home room teachers and officers—and
your club is under way! '

Home Room Gardeners is essentially a “do-
ing” group. Formal meetings will seldom be
necessary. Meetings may, however, be held
for specific purposes. The club may meet to
discuss methods of potting plants; of control-
ling insecvts; for any one of a number of
worthwhile reasons. Meetings of this kind
may sometimes pave the way to projects which
will involve the whole school building. It may
be planned, for example, that tulip bulbs will
be planted and that there will be a general dis-
play of this flower throughout the school dur-
ing a certain week in early spring. A winter
flower show is another excellent all-school
project.

It is advisable that the plants for the home
room garden be discussed at a meeting of the
home room group. The Gardeners in the room
should act as advisers and “technical experts”
at this meeting. This plan is particularly val-
uable in the lower grades. In the upper grades
and high school a committee, of which the
home room’s Gardeners are members, may be
given the duty of plant selection. It will often
be found that pupils will be able to bring suit-
able plants from home or may be able to con-
tribute a few cents each toward the purchase
of plants from a florist. It will sometimes hap-
pen that a local florist will become interested
in the project and donate plants to the club.

Plants to Use

What are the best plants to choose? Here
several important fa c t o r s
must be taken into considera—
Plants suitable for
growing in the average living
room are not always suitable
for schoolroom gardens. In
the first place, do not choose
plants which will not take
kindly to sudden changes of

.- ' 337

\

338 ' HOME ROOM GARDENERS

temperature. Fancy—leaved caladiums and the
poinsettia are members of this group. Other
plants are extremely sensitive to gas; keep
these out of laboratories. The Jerusalem cherry
will drop its leaves if the faintest trace of
illuminating gas is in the air and the leaves of
the nasturtium will turn yellow. Finally, un-
less it is to be recognized frankly as an experi—
ment, flowers and plants requiring difficult cul-
ture have no place in the schoolroom. Choose
instead plants which require a minimum of care
and attention.

Bulbs produce the most satisfactory flower-
ing plants fOr the winter schoolroom. Most
bulbs require that they be placed in a cool,
dark place for from ten to twelve weeks after
they have been planted; this permits the roots
to become well developed before top—growth
begins. The best plan to follow is to dig a
trench eighteen inches to two feet deep in the
school garden and in this trench place several
inches of ashes. Set the
pots of bulbs in the trench,
cover them with more ash-

trench with earth. The
ashes are used to prevent
earthworms from bother—
ing the rooting bulbs. An-
other method, although
perhaps not as good a one,
is to place the pots in a
dark basement or cellar, as
far as possible from a fur-
nace. When bulbs are potted for winter bloom,
just the top of the bulb should stick up out of
the soil in the pot. Use only screened soil
which has been well mixed with bone meal or
some commercial plant food, and water well
after planting. Bulbs started in a cellar or
basement will need additional water every
week or two; those placed in an out—door
trench will require no further attention until
they are again dug up. After ten or twelve
weeks it will be found, upon examination, that
sprouts several inches long will have appeared
in the pots. At this time the bulbs may be
brought into the light and warmth of the
schoolroom. The development of the flower
may be controlled to a considerable extent by
careful regulation of the amount of heat and
light the plant receives; to retard bloom put
the pots in a cold room. Crocuses, tulips,

p

"Men stay young by knowing Na-
es and then f1“ up the ture. There is something about
the freshness of living things that
is akin to the enthusiasm of youth.
Our advancing civilization makes

us prematurely old. Nature is the
surest route to life—long youth.
both mentally and physically. for it
is always young."—John Harvey
Furbay in "Nature Chats."

 

hyacinths and narcissi are easily grown in this
manner; be sure, however, to select early
varieties.

If your school lacks facilities to permit pot—-
ted plants or bulbs to spend the f1rst period
of their growth in the cold and dark, there are
other bulbs for which this treatment is not an
absolute necessity. The paper—white narcissus,
planted in pebbles and water, will grow and
blossom if placed in the warmth and light of
a schoolroom window at once. The flowers
will appear in about eight weeks, if bulbs are
planted in October; if planted in the spring
they will blossom in less than two weeks. It
is true, however, that even the paper—white
narcissus will produce stronger plants and bet-
ter flowers if placed in the dark for ten days or
two weeks after being planted. Many other
kinds of narcissi, including the trumpet daffo—
dils, will grow and blossom in the light. The
autumn crocus and the lily of the valley will
respond nicely to the same
treatment. Other interest-
ing bulbous plants, the
roots and stems of which
develop at the same time,
thus requiring no “cold—
5 t o r a g e” treatment, are
freesias, ixias and the tri-
tona crocata. \Vhile not
commonly thought of as a
schoolroom plant, the free-
sia makes an interesting
and not dichult plant for
the school window garden. The amaryllis and
the cala, commonly called the cala lily, are
worth trying during the spring months. All bulbous
flowers and plants like plenty of sunlight, al—
though most of them will thrive in partial
shade; after the ffowers have opened they will
last much longer if kept out of the direct rays
of the sun.

Other flowering plants which, provided that
they receive the beneflt of an hour or two of
sun daily, will bloom in the schoolroom, are
the geranium, the small—flowered begonias, the
primrose, and the cyclamen. Nasturtiums
grown from seed will blossom, too, if they
have plenty of sun. If you want to experiment
with vines, and have a light, sunny room, con—
sider the morning glory, particularly the new
“heavenly blue” variety. You will be agree—

HOME ROOM GARDENERS 339

ably surprised to find how easily they can be
grown indoors.

By far the most satisfactory plants for the
schoolroom garden. are the foliage plants —
those which produce no flowers or whose flow—
ers are inconSpicuous. These plants are orna-
mental for their leaves alone. As a rule, plants
in this group require little in the way of sun—
light, the only exception being those species
and varieties with exceptionally brilliant
leaves. The best of all foliage plants—requir-
ing the absolute minimum in the way of care
and attention—are the sansevieria, or snake
plant, and the aspidistra. There are two vari-
ties of the sansevieria—the common, mottled
kind and the less-common striped variety.
Both are natives of New Zealand. The aspi-
distra can survive almost any kind of treat-
ment although it will thrive better if it has
plenty of water. The coleus with its graceful,
colorful leaves, is one of the most common of
the plants found in the schoolroom, in spite of
the fact that it is delicate and freezes easily.
Dracena, or dragon plant, the Chinese jade
plant, or crassula, the pandanus, English ivy,
the Boston fern and many kinds of cactus are
suitable for schoolroom use. Orange, lime,
lemon, and grapefruit trees, grown from seeds
planted in flower pots, are always interesting,
while potted baby-evergreens withstand ex-
treme cold and are very suitable for the rural
school with its cold nights and colder week-
ends.

After the selection of plants has been made
the question arises as to where we shall have
our schoolroom garden. By far the best plan
of all is to use metal window boxes placed in
metal pans made to fit the windows. The use
of pans under the boxes insures that no water
will leak out to mar window sills. In the bot-
tom of each plant box place a layer of pebbles
and on these set the pots of plants. By having
plants in pots instead of planted directly in the
window boxes it is possible to change them
about as desired. The window boxes should
be placed in the sunniest windows, as far as
possible from stoves and radiators. '

Caring for the Plants
There are several important rules which
should be observed by Home Room Gardeners
in caring for the plants in the indoor garden.
First, there is the matter of watering. Plants
grown indoors generally receive too much

water from well-intentioned care-takers, but
this is not usually the case with classroom
plants. Unless the plant is noticeably too wet
it should be watered daily, preferably in the
morning. Much has been said against the
painting of flower pots and it.is probably true
that this is an unwise practice in the case of
plants grown under ideal conditions in the
greenhouse. In the schoolroom, however, it
will be found that the slight advantage of more
air being permitted to reach the roots of plants
is overbalanced by the increase of the likelihood
of plants drying out in unpainted pots.

Plants breathe and obtain carbon-dioxide
for food-making through tiny pores in their
leaves. In normal, outdoor growth rain and
dew serve to keep these pores open and free
from dust. Indoors, and particularly in the
schoolroom, much dust gathers on the leaves
of plants and they should have a careful spong-
ing with tepid water once a week so that the
plant may breathe. Like animals, plants re—
quire food; unlike animals, plants get most of
their food direct from the soil. A plant grown
in a pot soon exhausts the necessary food ma-
terials in the soil and unless it is fed with a
small amount of plant food will soon die of
starvation.

Insects seldom are found on clean, well—kept
schoolroom plants. If aphids appear, the af-
fected plant should be sprayed with a commer-
cial spray solution or a homemade mixture
made by combining a half tablespoon of kero-
sene with a quart of luke-warm water made
slightly soapy with white soap. Mealy bugs
should be picked off and destroyed. To keep
plants from freezing during winter nights they
should be covered with newspapers; during
extremely cold periods it is a good plan to
remove plants, boxes and all, from the win-
dows at night.

Home Room Gardeners, in addition to the
more or less routine work outlined above, may
carry out many other activities and projects.
In a large school a room should be set aside
for nature-garden club use. Here the Garden—
ers may store supplies, pot bulbs, start seed-
lings, and carry on similar work. Extra plants
for emergencies can be grown here—a plant
will freeze now and then !—and a flowering
plant, school—grown, sent to a pupil or teacher
absent from a school because of prolonged ill-
ness is a very welcome gift indeed.

Sioux City Plans a Hallowe’en Program

'Sioux City, Iowa, on Hallowe’en evening has

presented a movie program in the‘four junior
high schools and two outlying grade schools. This
plan has not been altogether satisfactory. The
movies have lasted from 7 to 9 o’clock, and as a
result of letting the children out at' 9, the usual
amount of Hallowe’en damage has occurred.

This year, under the direction of John E. Gron-
seth, Superintendent of Recreation, and Miss Helen
Kamphoefner, a new plan is to be inaugurated.
A real Hallowe’en party will be conducted at the
twenty-four grade‘ schools and two different par-
ties at each of the four junior high schools. The
Department of Recreation will plan the program
and provide the leadership. The school will fur-
nish the space and supervision, and the Parent-
Teacher Associations will provide refreshments
and such equipment as wash tubs, lamps, sheets
and other needed articles. The children’s librarian
at the Public Library, will prepare a suitable Hal-
lowe’en story.

IN PAST YEARS the Department of RecreatiOn of

Leadership

The leaders for the various parties will be
selected from the summer playground staff. Previ-
ous to the presentation of this program at the
schools, the selected leaders will attend a two ses-
sion institute at which they will be given an op-
portunity to participate in and conduct various
activities scheduled for the party. The basement
or gymnasium of each school building will be
thrown open for the party, and six or more school
teachers will assist the Recreation Department
leader in the program. Each child is urged to
come in a costume, and a prize will be awarded
to the most novel. Each child is requested to
bring one apple.

Public and parochial school boys and girls from
the fourth to sixth grades inclusive may attend
the parties. Separate programs for boys and girls
will be conducted in the four jun-
ior high schools.

The Activities

Grand March—in parade cos-
tumes. Five of the best will be

340

selected by a committee of school teachers, and
at the close of the party one of the five will be
chosen by popular applause for the prize winner.
Finish the grand march with the group in circle
formation.

Come Along — Players in circle extend left
hands to center. An extra player runs counter-
clockwise around the inside of the circle with his
right arm extended. As he runs he takes one of
the players by the left hand; he in turn takes an-
other player. The line continues to grow until
the leader blows his whistle, when all-scramble
back to their places. The last one to find his place
starts the next line.

Circle Tag—Count off by threes. No. I’s step
back and face right. At signal, they attempt to
catch one in front. If player is caught he drops
out. Do likewise with 2’s and 3’s.

Hand Hold Relay—Two lines of equal length
stand facing each other. The players in each line
hold right hands with the player directly opposite
in the opposing line. A rubber ball is given the
leader in each line, and at the signal is passed
down the line from the left_ hand of one player
to the left hand of the next, and so on down the

0 line and back again to the leader. The ball may

only be passed with the left hand.

Messenger Relay—Two or more teams line up
side by side behind a given line. Another line is
marked 15 feet in front, parallel with the teams.
A messenger is appointed for each team. They take
their position on the opposite line and at the signal
“Go” each messenger walks over to his team and
brings a man back, who in turn walks over and
brings back another, etc. Each player does so
until all his team mates are on the opposite line.

Grocery S’rore—In groups of ten. The leader
starts, “I am going to the grocery store to buy

( C ontinued on page 369)

In Sioux City the Department of Recreation, Board
of Education and Parent-Teacher Associations are
ioining forces this year in a Hallowe'en program.

The Leisure and Esthetic Interests
of the

Rural Child

By LEE M. BROOKS and WILLIAM C. SMITHSON

WE SING of amber waves of grain and purple

mountain majesties, but are we doing as

much as we might to cultivate the fields of
childhood leisure, to make them more productive
and colorful in things of beauty? Is the problem
one of money or leadership or both? Have we
been content to give rural children “Readin’. Rit-
in’, and ’Rithmetic” for their mental nourish-
ment; and “Meat, Meal, and Molasses” for their
physical diet? Have we been inclined to forget
the Platonic implications of gymnastics for the
body and music for the soul? The answers to
these questions will, of course, vary from place to
place throughout the country.

At Lowe’s Grove

Lowe’s Grove, North Carolina, is one of the
more progressive rural school neighborhoods in
the cotton-corn-tobacco growing part of the Pied-
mont region. The power of this crop triumvirate
was broken, however, some twenty years ago
when in this neighborhood the first rural credit
union in the South, under the leadership of John
Sprunt Hill, was organized around a Farm Life
School. This c00perative enterprise, six miles
from Durham, continues as a farm life and gen-
eral education center for some
175 families living in the

the school children, especially with regard to
music, dramatics and reading. With the full and
c0rdial cooperation of the principal and his teach-
ers, the children from the 7th to the 11th grades
were questioned in class by means of schedules
filled in under the direction of the teachers. Some
of the homes were visited, partly as a check upon
data previously reported. The responses of the
children were found to be essentially accurate. It
happened that exactly the same number of girls
and boys participated, fifty-three of each sex. The
total 106 pupils also fell into four approximately
equal groups for each grade, the 7th, 8th, 9th,
Ioth,' 11th. In the interests of simplicity we are
omitting tables and lists of figures. The discussion
below consists of rough interpretations consonant
with this type of miniature sketch-study.

Family factors: Slightly more than half the
children come from farm homes; about one-third
from the carpenter—painter-mechanic-railroad
group connected occupationally with Durham. A ‘
scattering of occupations include a few merchants,
a contractor or two, and a minister. Duration of
residence averages between six and seven years.
Size of family is generally six members with an
average of just over five rooms per home. Distance

between home and school aver-
ages 3.7 miles, and between

southern portion of the coun-
ty. A few stores, one church,
eight buildings belonging to
the school, and a few homes
cluster attractively at the in-
tersection of two highways.
A small group of students
at the State University ten
miles away, decided in the
spring of 1934 to inquire into
the leisure—time interests of

The study reported here deals with a
somewhat favored rural area where
neither extreme wealth nor gross pov-
erty is found, where few children go
on to higher institutions of learning,
and where a considerable proportion
of them seem to be hungering for
something more than they are get-
ting; this in spite of the fact that the
school itself has done rather well by
its pupils, as attested by the national
recognition given their exhibit material
at the time the study was being made.

home and church 2.4 miles.
Exactly half the children indi-
cated membership in 4-H clubs
and three-quarters of them are
attached to some type of or-
ganization within a religious
denomination.

Games: The spring of the
year may have influenced the
ordering of baseball, basketball,
volleyball, and football as the

341

342 THE LEISURE AND ESTHETIC INTERESTS OF THE RURAL CHILD

 
 
  
     

favorite games both at home and at school. with
only a tenth of the children mentioning sedentary
games such as cards. They look upon their play
opportunities as “fairly good," a half dozen pupils
stating “excellent” and a dozen, “poor.”

Moving pictures: Most of the children went
from one to fifteen times in the five months im-
mediately preceding the inquiry, only nine indi—
cating no attendance. Those living near Durham
city are among the more frequent movie-goers.
In expressing themselves as to what types-of pic-
tures are liked, the voting power of the 7th and
8th grades gave the total preference to “West-
erns,” while the 9th to 11th grades put the “R0-
mantics” into second place. The lower grades
showed no interest in the “Mysteries” which were
put into third place because of the voting weight
of the upper grades. Comedies and historic pic-
tures ranked fourth with tragedies coming next.
Militarists and pacifists may be interested to note

that war pictures got only two votes, but this
p01nt 15 not of significant statistical value.

Artistic expression: On music, dancing, pageants,
and plays the children were asked a half dozen

"Character developmentI the enrichment of
personality, mental poise and securityI hap-
pier tamily experiencel more satisfying com-
munity life—social control itself—the attain-
ment of all these may be more nearly ap-
proximated if leisure and esthetic interests are
encouraged and such activities wisely guided."

“do—you-like” questions. In commenting upon the
results, it will be noted that we have in some in-
stances compared the answers of the girls with
those of the boys.

“How do you feel toward music ?" Nearly
three—fourths of the children, more girls than
boys, respond: “like it very much.” One-fourth,
largely boys, “like it fairly well.” Only five, one a
girl, claim to “care very little for it.” No marked
differences appear from one grade to another.

“Do you like singing?” Here ninety answered
“yes,” though only sixteen of the total group be-
longed to a choir or glee club. Over sixty chil-
dren expressed a wish to be in such a group;
thirty had no such desire, and a dozen were blank
on the point. Singing is somewhat more popular
with girls than with boys, the former favoring it
quite unanimously while only three-fourths of the
boys are interested in it.

Musical instruments are popular in this order:
guitar is clearly first, piano, violin, and banjo,
with the victrola and sundry wind instruments
last. Yet the piano and victrola are more com-
monly found in the homes than the violin, guitar

THE LEISURE AND ESTHETIC INTERESTS OF THE RURAL CHILD 343

and banjo. Slightly more than half the families
possess radios. Only half as many fathers as
mothers play a musical instrument.

Although only one child in four (19 girls out of
53; IO boys out of 53) has taken music lessons,
one-half of them expressed a wish that they
might belong to a band or orchestra. One-third
had attended recitals or concerts during the eight
months school term either at Lowe’s Grove, Dur-

ham or Chapel Hill.

“Do i you like dancing?” Three-fourths an—
swered “yes” for dancing with a partner. Slightly
less than one-half enjoy group or folk dancing.
Of some fifty parents the same is true.

“Do you like pageants?” On this the younger
«children showed greater enthusiasm, the upper
grades registering “fairly well.” About one-tenth
admitted caring very little for pageants. The re-
sponses in connection with stage plays were simi-
lar to those for pageants. Four parents out of five
enjoy pageants and plays. Three children out of
four like to take part in such performances and
when they do so they are twice as much interested
in humorous as in serious types.

“Should girls pay more attention to art, music,
etc., than boys?” American agricultural areas-in
general and the South in particular have allowed
boys to grow up with notions that fine arts are
“sissy.” Hence this question had special interest
for the university inquirers. “Yes” said 62 chil-
dren; “No” said 32, leaving 12 not answering.
When boys and girls are separated on this ques-
tion, we find it is the younger girls and the older
boys who say “yes” (28 girls and 34 boys). The
blanks came from six girls and six boys. Most
parents look upon the violin and guitar as prefer-
able for boys and upon the piano as best for girls.
It is interesting, however, to find that almost all
cooperating parents consider music study impor-
tant for boys as well as for girls. We suspect
that it was the mothers rather than the fathers who
were responsible for this viewpoint. We have
found that big-fisted “he-men,” whether farmers
or others, living ofiC the beaten track of urbanity,
“can't git over how funny it looks to see a man
play the pianer.” Only one family in seven pro-
vides any music instruction for the child other
than the incidental emphasis given to music in
the regular school routine.

Reading: Books are scarce in the homes, some-
thing to be expected in a region slowly becoming
library-minded. Fully a third of the children
failed to respond or admitted having no books at

all. One-fourth of the homes have from I to 30
books; one-tenth, from 31 to 100 books, and one-
tenth, a group composed of two farmers, a
merchant, a minister, a painter, and a realtor,
possessed more than 100 books. Practically all the
children claim to make use of the Durham public
library or the local school library. No check was
given to this nor was inquiry made as to fre-
quency of book withdrawals. Local newspapers,
agricultural journals, women’s periodicals, and
fiction magazines are commonly found. Subscrip—
tions to magazines of the higher literary types are
practically non-existent, a fact just as true of the
small industrial cities of the southern region.
Other studies of the rural South have revealed a
dearth of reading interest and materials.

Sunday pursuits: Church attendance and activi-
ties take the lead, with visiting, riding, dating,
playing games, and walking next in order.

The final query put to the pupils was as fol-
lows: “If you could have your wishes fulfilled,
what improvements or new things would you like
to see Come to Lowe’s Grove along lines of lei-
sure and recreation, entertainments, and social
programs?” By consolidating the many concrete
answers we find the following to be most promi-
nent: More directed recreation at school; a sum-
mer program to include swimming, and what
seems to be a desire for more unity between
church and social recreational and organizational
activities.

A Few Conclusions

In summarizing this little exploration, so
thoroughly enjoyed by the university students
sharing in it, a few observations and suggestions
are pertinent.' In the first place, here is a neigh—
borhood clearly above the average for southern
rural life as a whole, situated within a triangle
of potential advantages. Twenty miles to the east
is the State Agricultural College which has al-
ready helped the Lowe’s Grove farmers greatly;
seven miles to the north is the academically ex—
panding and architecturally beautiful Duke Uni-
versity, and ten miles to the west is the University
of North Carolina which for some years has been
moving toward fuller appreciation and leadership
in the field of art.

In any rural area where the habit of agricul—
tural cooperation has struck root under good lead-
ership, it would seem that the time is ripe for fur-
ther cooperation in the use of leisure for the sake

(Continued on page 370)

After Twenty-five Yea rs

ON AUGUST 23, 1935, the bor-

ough of Wyomissing, located
one mile west of Reading.
Pennsylvania, with a population of about 3500,
celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the

founding of its playground. Over hve thousand -

people thronged the Wyomissing Playground,
overflowing from the seats to stand at every point
of vantage to view the pageant depicting the
twenty-five years of development in the history
of the playground.

The founders, most of whom were in attend-
ance, were presented by the chairman of the an-
niversary committee, with Mr. H. M. Fry,lthe
first president of the association, responding with
a brief address. Instructors who served during
the period were present and several journeyed
over 300 miles from distant states to participate.

Following the tribute to the founders, the
pageant portrayed the history of the playground
as follows: i

In the spring of 1910, a movement on the part
of a few public spirited citizens was started to
form an association to supervise and direct play-
ground activities. Eventually, the association ob-
tained a plot of ground and, with money received
from a house to house canvass, purchased some
equipment and the playground was formally
opened on the fourth of
July. The community
turned out to show its
enthusiasm in the hrst
Fourth of July parade.
These parades are a fea—
ture and have been held
every year since without
interruption.

The addition, from year +0
year, of new facilifiesl and
the careful consideration
given +0 problems of lay-
ouf and planting' have re-
sulfed in an unusually beau-
+iful playground which is
an obiecf of local pride

344

By. P. AHLFELD
Wyomissingl Pa.

Among the noteworthy develop-
ments during the first few years
owere the wiring of the borough hall
and the purchase of a stereopticon to facilitate
lectures; the laying out of the first tennis courts,
and the addition of a swimming pool which was
made by blocking up the \Vyomissing Creek.

Bazaars, lectures, band concerts and parties
aided in the maintenance of the project, and con-
tributions became larger as the movement de-
veloped. “7 omen volunteers began to organize
classes among the yOunger boys and girls. At one
time the Playground Association bought seed and
distributed 'it free to children who were interested
in raising gardens. At intervals, prizes were of-
fered to those attending the various classes, and
competition.was very keen. It was little wonder
because the prizes were nothing less than mem—
berships in the association.

During the war period, in the summer of 1918.
twelve companies of soldiers were bivouaked on
the playground while enroute to training camps.
They were well entertained and given the use of
all the facilities.

Trees and shrubbery in time began to receive
more attention and, little by little, the \Vyomis—
sing playground became more beautiful and more

(Continued on huge 370)

 

 

Home Play
For the

Little Tots

By RODNEY OVERTON

Supervisor of Recreational Information
Oakland Recreation Department

HAT THE public playground has be-
T come an integral part of the very

life of our modern municipalities is
beyond question. Throughout the last
twenty-five years the growth in the build—
ing of playgrounds has been phenomenal.
At first a small compact area set aside, in
a great many instances, adjacent to a
school building which was not widely ad-
vertised but heralded as a master attrac-
tion to take children off the busy city
streets, to prevent accidents and a place
where youngsters could work off their
enthusiasm without getting into mischief.
Later a place where with trained leader-
ship a program of activities could be car—
ried on with educational values second to
none even including the public‘ school.
And recently a gathering place for all
community activities—including facilities

and program for the adult who finds more:

and more leisure time on his hands.

All these things, it has been proved, the
playground does for school children and
above. But what has the modern city

done for the small child? In certain places far-
seeing experts have planned facilities for the small
child but little has been done when we consider
the great number of large cities in this country.
What to do with the child of this age, too young
to travel alone or even in groups to the public
playground, and too young for group games and

   
   

 

'- -'_.I ...-------..---,--.---,-----.---....-..  -.I . “I
'. : - ' '3 ' ‘-
I ,ouonsz , : SHOES -: m : VEGETABLE : {
.... -— JUMPING FIREPLACEE OR E HoBBY
El" 5 FLOWER 5 GARDEN
E GARDEN :
u 1
""""""""" 
r— .a GOLF 00 p -
a: CROQUET
E “ BALL
3 a
0 - Q CHILDREN'S
In) 9- _ f“..—
“E g 100% THEATRE
BO  '
T ourcn 000::
‘ GOLF DRMNGNET FOR STAGE
«INi : . ENTRANCE -
AND pupDET .
- ' CHILDREN'S
«5’ : DLAYHOUSE SHOWS .
’ : wonnsnon r
HANDBALL E
BASKETBALL o '
VOLLEYBALL I:
PADDLETENNIS 7‘
l 9:
' g
I I
I
I
E GARAGE .
D
r’“'"
k2) .
5 MW“ " m“ L
1.: til;
.3‘ '-
A I SUPERVISION FROM
" SEWING ROOM on infant»: I!
0- l
L) CEMENT
I l FOR
0 l} ROLLERSKATES
O ‘ KIDDIEKARS
.. ‘ snoorms
L HOP SCOTCH

 

 

 

 

 

Lot 50' x 120’

Courtesy Oakland .Recreatian Department

activities to enjoy association with other children, I
has become a problem of the home, parents and
not of the municipality which cannot, or will not
offer adequate aid in its solution, since it cannot
maintain playgrounds on every residential block
or provide guardians for every child to go to and 1
from the playground.

345

346 ‘ HOME PLAY FOR THE LITTLE TOTS

The City of Oakland, California, with its
seventy playgrounds, community centers, lake rec-
reation center, intown and mountain camps, swim-
mining pool and golf course, has for a number of
years attempted to meet the problem of the small
child and has experimented with a variety of types
of activities. The present plan briefly is to take
the recreation into the home where the child is
too small to go to the playground.

To do this it is necessary first to obtain the as-
sistance, enthusiasm and help of parents. This
may be done in several ways—personal contact
with pe0p1e in the neighbrhoood by the play-
— ground supervisor ; contact with niothers’ and
dads’ clubs by staff members, and through news-
paper and poster publicity.

In many instances a home play campaign spon—
sored by the local paper is a great help. The latter
type of home play campaign was held recently in
Oakland. The newspaper ran articles, diagrams
of play apparatus, interviews with parents,
pictures of various backyard play areas, and
donated cups and merchandise orders to twelve
division winners.

The whole plan is simply stated and simply
executed at very small expense. It comprises
placing in the home area—not only the backyard
——a playground equipped with such apparatus as
a sandbox, swing, a basketball backstop on a reg-
ular post where the children can practice shooting
the ball, a work shed, a playhouse and even a wad-
ing pool.

The secret of the success of a home playground
is in making it_attractive. Every available bit of
space may be put to use. A fine backyard play-
ground may be installed in an area 40 by 20 feet;
if there is more space a more complete area may
be equipped.

The complete equipment for the home play-
ground may be built at very small expense. If
father has the ability to build things he can do
wonders with scrap materials. If materials must
be bought fifty dollars will cover expenses and
then some.

In cases where there are a number of small
children in homes in the neighborhood, several
families may go in together and purchase the
equipment, setting it up and allowing all their
children to use it. This means that the per capita
cost will be cut down or that a much better
equipped backyard playground can be constructed.
The latter plan also offers a more effective play-

ground, because the children are more content to
play when a number of them play together.

The Oakland Recreation Department provides
diagrams of yards, and estimates of areas which
can be devoted to this purpose in any given area.
Lists of equipment and prices are also given to
parents contemplating the establishment of a home
play area. Upon request the Department sends
out trained people from their staff to advise as
to layout and equipment. As an added service it
has distributed over 25,000 pamphlets entitled
Home Recreation which includes not only the sim-
ple equipment essential for a play area but stresses
the value of small vegetable and flower gardens
and the raising of pets as a method of arousing
the child’s interest in the home.

In SUpporting home play, the Oakland Recrea-
tion Department feels that it is providing activity
for a group which heretofore has not come in for
much consideration. It completes the cycle of
activity and gives recreation, in the true sense of
the word, to “all.”

Play is the center of a child's life, education and
growth. An adequate playground is the right of
every child. Without it the child is in danger for
five hours every day!

Giving your children an attractive and desirable
place to play gives recreation to them and to you.
It makes you their friend and companion. It cen-
ters their life and yours in the home.

Here are a few suggestions for laying out a
backyard playground:

Use your imagination. Make the most of the
opportunities at hand. Elaborate and expensive
toys are less fun than simple and cheap ones. Four
billion feet of good lumber are put into boXes and
crates every year, mostly wasted. Use them'. Old
rubber tires make fine swings, hoops and swim—
ming toys. Millions of feet of short lumber are
wasted. \Vhy not make a play house for the chil-
dren or a dog house for their pet?

A sand box costs only about $3. to make. It
can be done for less. A swing costs about $3.50
to build. A horizontal bar can be attached to one
upright of the swing. ‘

Save space. Use the swing standards for tra-

peze and rings. Put up another horizontal bar op—
posite the first and place a horizontal ladder over

the two.
——Froni the Community Council, St. Louis.

 

 

   

l

' HEN THE Library passed,
; and the Superintendent of

Legislating for An Emergency

To meet a city emergency 0 public library
sets up a new alphabetical agency—the VRA

Schools and the Board of
Education signed, on May 4th, the
Vacation Reading Act, the Public
Library of Vincennes, Indiana, initiated one of its
most important programs, a program affecting
more than 600 boys and girls. A city emergency
caused by an eight months school period was
known to exist. To assist in the relief of this
situation the Public Library organized and pro-
moted a vacation reading project. No interest
of the juvenile population, in the sixty or more
organizations of the NRA, from AAA to VTA,
which has made America code-conscious, sur—
passed that of the VRA!

The set—up outside the Library consisted of
a huge sign "LOCAL PROJECT, No. 1934,
V R A,” placed upon the front lawn. This
confused some of the citizens to the extent
they enquiringly sought the library soliciting
work. Inside a blue eagle spread its wings
over four projects and a grandfather’s clock
which said “tick—tock.” Its kindly old face reg-
istered the days and
the weeks, instead of
the hours, with the
instructions, “Turn
the knob," “Open the
door,” “Punch the
Clock,” “Keep the
Old Clock Smiling
by Reading Many
Books.” One might
have thought Old
Man Depression,
glum and sorry, with
the corners of his
mouth turned down,
had arrived, but as
the books began to
circulate his smile
began to break,
stretch and spread

By JANE KITCHELL
Librarian

Public Library

Vincennes. Indiana

 

until “Up Turned the Corners.”

Rules and Regulations

Certain rules and regulations
were necessary to carry out the
purpose of the VRA which opened May 21 and
closed July 28. The Main and North Branch
Libraries were designated as the agencies to carry
out and effectuate the policies. It was compul-
sory for each applicant to appear before the Board
of Registration. composed of Junior High School
students, two days previous to sign the code and
be given a work and identification card which
definitely assigned him to work on the projects.
Each card bore the worker’s signature and num—
her, the specified time to report for work and the
V RA manager's name. It was necessary to pre—
sent these cards with each book reported upon.

The Book Code

The Book Code approved May 4th which
became effective May 21st, provided fOr a
period of ten weeks. It called for a six day
week, from 9 A. M. to 6 P. M., the maximum

not to exceed 54
h o u r s. Each em-
ployee agreed to
read not less than ten
books but had the
privilege of reading
as many more as he
cared to. The Code
prohibited the defac—
ing and mutilating
of all books; the

copying of any para—
graph or extract to
be included in any
book report submit—
ted to the library. It
was compulsory to
return all books on

time in order to be
exempt from fines.

347

348 LEGISLATING FOR AN EMERGENCY

The library agreed not to employ any person be-
low school age or beyond the Junior High School.

Public Works and Construction Projects

Four projects were submitted, General Works,
History, Travel and Wonderland. The type of
book read determined to which project it should
be- credited. A time card for each project was
placed within the clock. For each book reported
on the time card was punched and the child’s name
and school signed to the respective project. In
this manner we were able to determine to which
project the most work was contributed and by
which school. The projects were built upon tables
in the children’s room. The history display
featured a minature replica of the home of Alice
of Old Vincennes with figureens of George Rogers
Clark, Indian braves, fur traders and frontiers-
men. Travel showed a large globe and book
trails to many lands; General \Vorks had a dis-
play case of coins, paper money, butterflies,
handiwork, Indian relics, model airplanes and
firearms; \Vonderland, a .miniature theater, a
land of make—believe enacted before their very
eyes with giants, fairies, dwarfs, little Red Rid-
ing Hood, the Three Bears and Little Black
Sambo. No attempt was made to have the
children read from any special lists, and much
latitude was given in book selection. \Vith few
new books it was necessary to utilize all books
in the children’s room. Due to this fact, Gen-
eral \Vorks Project probably had the advant—
age. Sign posts and placards led the way to
the various projects.

Vacation Reading Administration

The Vacation Reading Administration set
up by the Vacation Reading Act had the fol-
lowing officers: An Administrator and Advis-
ory Board of eight members elected each Mon—
day morning to serve a term of one week. The
administrator was elected for the largest num-
ber of books read; the Advisory Board for the
best book report and the most books read from
each group. These officers presided over the
weekly Code meeting which convened at 10 :00
A. M. It was their duty to settle all contro-
versies and deal with all violators of the code.
A secretary was appointed and a permanent
record kept. The children derived great benefit
in the training of parliamentary law. The meet-
ings were opened and closed with the official

Code song set to the music of “Who’s Afraid of
the Big Bad Wolf.”

Ratification

The “New Deal,” ratified August I with a
twilight pageant parade, proved to be a gala
affair, only diploma winners being privileged
to participate. It was a day of great anxiety.
Throughout the ten weeks the weatherman
continued to show his disapproval by convert-
ing, the project into a Reading Marathon, an
endurance test with little time out, the intense
heat being almost unbearable. When he real-
izcd the workers had defied him, braving the
elements regardless, he had the last word by
throwing cold water on the New Deal from
break of dawn throughout the day. However,
just as sunset came a change of heart, and he
smiled with favor. General Donald Miller of
the North Branch Library, newly acclaimed
Administrator, led the parade mounted upon a
pony. General \Vorks Project and the \Villiam
Henry Harrison School scored the highest hon-
ors. Some three hundred faithful supporters
representing some book or book character fol-
lowed with trumpets and drum. Scouts, public
officials and citizens turned out to lend their
infiuence and presence to the new administra-
tion and to view Old Man Depression led in
chains, having been captured by the Little
Lame Prince and Tom Sawyer.

The project was carried into the various
parent-teachers associations with the opening
of school. Diplomas were awarded to the chil—
dren of each building: book reviews and story-
telling were featured by those who had done
work of merit. General Miller, all-wise and
far-sighted for his nine years, accompanied by
his Cabinet and Advisory Board, addressed
each group outlining the policies and principles
of the VRA. A code meeting was repro-
duced, all old business disposed of and new
business brought to their attention, including
the proposed schedule of library discounts
drawn up by the Code Authority of Retail
Booksellers. This proved to be a matter of
grave concern, for with the reduced library
budget it would be a serious handicap to li-
brary service—less books for the money. It
was a fine opportunity for the library to get
certain facts before adults, such as the problem
of meeting the standard of library circulation

’Conh’mmd on page 3?1)

Recreation Goes to the State Fair

A Municipal Recreation Commission
and a State Fair ioin forces in a
mutually satisfactory experiment

ECREATION, like any other form of human
R endeavor, must have its methods, aims

and progress brought before the general
public frequently and in the most vivid fashion
possible, in order that it may grow and suc-
ceed in its particular sphere.

The opportunity to bring to the attention of
a large public the ideals and accomplishments
of recreation came recently to the Municipal
Recreation Commission of Syracuse, New
York, when it was requested by the directors
of the New York State Fair to assist in provid-
ing educational and recreational features for
the quarter of a million visitors who annually
come to the Fair. In order to give the Com—
mission every possible advantage in its pro-
gram, the State Fair authorities detailed one
of their directors to take specific charge of
these activities and designated the opening day
as “Carnival Day” when the principal events in
cooperation with the Recreation Commission
were to take place. The State Fair director
detailed to the work outlined all events and
worked out a specific schedule in cooperation
with the personnel of the Recreation Com-
mission. This centered the authority and
avoided numerous conflicts of time and place
for scheduled events.

For several weeks previous to the opening
of the Fair recreation leaders worked on the
details of their plans and conferred with the
director regarding their feasibility and appro—
priateness. Each recreation leader covered
thoroughly the field with which he was most
familiar and was given full charge of the activ-
ities in that field. When the opening day of the

By

FRANK E. MILLER
Director, New York State Fair

and

JOHN F. KANE
Syracuse Municipal Recreation Commission

Fair arrived, everything was in readiness so
that the planned program could go through
without difficulties. In order to give as many
children as possible a share in festivities, the
State provided all sc'hool'children with free
passes and urged them to come to the Fair on
the opening day.

The day was opened with a carnival parade
through the principal streets of Syracuse. The
participants in this parade included visiting
boys’ bands, Boy Scout band, fife and drum
corps, decorated floats entered by city mer-
chants, detachments of Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls and costumed children
from all of the city parks and playgrounds, who
contested for the best, funniest, most unique
and most appropriate costumes. Many children
not in costume also entered the parade and
wore the vari-colored berets which 'indicated
the park or playground from which they had
entered. Paper hats, miniature kites and masks
given by the State Fair authorities to the parti-
cipants in the parade added greatly to the color
and gaiety.

After the city parade, the children were
transported en masse to the Fair grounds
where they were reviewed before the grand-
stand and given awards. Then they scattered
to enjoy the various exhibits or to participate
directly in other events scheduled for the day.

The majority of the day’s events were
directly under the leadership of trained recrea-
tion workers from the Municipal Recreation
Commission. These events which, incidentally,
were carried out throughout the remainder of
the day and early evening without a single

349'

350 RECREATION GOES TO THE STATE FAIR

major mishap, included a parks and indus-
trial horseshoe pitching championship, a kite-
flying contest which incorporated many unique
features, soft and hard baseball championship
games, a model show, a model airplane contest,
an archery championship shoot, pushmobile
races, a diving helmet exhibition, an amateur
park circus, a night “Show-Boat” vaudeville
show and many other special features.

When the events of the day had been com-
pleted and prizes provided by the State
awarded to the.various winners in each event,
a tired but happy crowd of 15,000 returned by
buses to the city. Many splendid comments
were heard regarding the efforts of the Muni-
cipal Recreation Commission and the work
which they were doing. From the standpoint
of acquainting the public with recreation work
this venture proved to be the most effective
of the many staged during the year. K

This opening day program had set the Fair
off to a good start; but the task of the Muni-
cipal Recreation Commission did not end there.
Throughout the remainder of the week the
Commission provided trained recreation lead-
ers to take care of the large groups of children
left at the Fair playground in their charge
while their elders visited the exfhibits and
enjoyed themselves in a variety of ways. These
play leaders organized games of all kinds and
exercised general control over the youngsters
until their parents called for them.

Exhibits

In addition to all of the mentioned projects,
the Municipal Recreation Commission estab-
lished in one of the large exhibition halls an
exhibit of recreation work which was every-
where conceded to be one of the finest and
most interesting exhibits on the grounds. i It
occupied a space approximately 50 feet long
and 20 feet wide, bringing vividly to the atten-
tion of the public all of the many activities and
functions of the Municipal Recreation Commis-
sion. It is estimated that during the period of
the Fair over 100,000 visitors had recreation
work brought to their special attention.

Above the exhibition space was a large
banner indicating that‘the display was spon-
sored by the Municipal Recreation Commis-
sion. The background of the exhibit consisted
of scenery painted especially for a Mother
Goose pageant which had been produced in one

of the parks early'in the year. This made a
most effective setting for the remainder of the
exhibit. Prominently displayed was a large
scale-model of one of the best and favorite
parks and playgrounds of the city, Thornden
Park. This model showed the playground with
its swings, teeters, swimming pool, tennis
courts, baseball diamond and amphi-theater.
All of the details were faithfully worked out
with wire, clay, burlap, crepe paper, sand, etc.
This proved to be one of the exhibits which
attracted the most attention.

In one corner of the exhibit was a large
table at which various children and adults from
the parks and playgrounds actually worked at
handicraft such as wood and soap carving, clay
modelling, arrow making. This also proved to
be a popular feature of the exhibit and through
the information obtained by the many inter-
ested spectators, many persons were added to
the various classes active in this field through-
out the city.

The central portion of the exhibit space was
devoted to a showing of the products of the
various organizations working under the super-
vision of the Municipal Recreation Commis-
sion. Such things as wood and soap carving,
poster work, sewing, knitting and photography
were prominently displayed, together with
signs which gave information as to where
instructions in these various fields could be
obtained free of charge.

At the entrance to the exhibit an informa-
tion booth was maintained where all questions
asked were carefully recorded and answered.
Thus the Commission was provided with much
valuable, definite information indicating the
interests of the general public. Statistics con-
cerning the activities of the Commission, which
were prominently displayed throughout the
exhibit, showed in a graphic way exactly what
recreational activities meant to the city of

Syracuse. ‘
In addition to maintaining the exhibit and

giving information, the Commission also pro-
vided special short entertainment features in
connection with the exhibit which drew the at-
tention of the crowds to the exhibits. All talent
for~these acts was drawn from classes in drama,
singing and music‘ maintained by the Com-
mission. Many of the events were broadcast
by a special short-wave radio station estab-

(Continued on page 371)

Music

in the
Dance

Program

Courtesy Hygeg’a

HE COORDINATION OF
T music and dancing,

as was pointed out
in the article which appeared in the September is-
sue Of RECREATION, should be an integral part Of
the dance program. The teacher must have some
system Of coordinating music and rhythm which
is practicable for use in his or her classes.

Many Of the present methods now in vogue are
rich in resources from an educational and recrea-
tive viewpoint. Nevertheless, they require a great
deal Of time, planning and interest on the part Of
both teacher and participant. It is advisable to
use such a system with groups and classes where
this situation exists and in instances in which
pupils are capable Of handling the work. In gen-
eral, the teacher in the average recreation pro-
gram should select with care the type Of program
best suited tO his groups. It may be advisable to
adopt a more simplified method — one which
would keep the educational aspects Of the plan but
not destroy its recreative values.

The following suggestions, it is hoped, will as—

sist the teacher in developing such a program.
A plan which has proven feasible in the aver—

age class is tO devote the first two periods tO ac-
quainting the students with the fundamentals Of
music composition. This could be supplemented
later on in the season with additional sessions de-
voted to a more technical study Of music. Atten—‘
tion should be focused, during these first two
classes, on the selection and study Of music in its

. arrangements, tempos and time. The basic dif-

ferences of 2/4, 3/4, 4/4 tempos, the grouping of

 

GEORGE SYME, JR.

measures, and the rhythmic relation of notes
should be eXplained. ‘

It is difficult sometimes for even more experi—
enced musicians to detect immediately the posi-
tion Of the primary beats in classical composi-
tions, especially in the case Of syncopation. As a
rule, the time in dance music is so well marked
that grouping Of the notes into bars Of three or
four intervals is readily perceived even by the un-
trained ear.

The chief stress in all music in general falls on
the first note Of the bar, but this is more especially
the case with regard to music that is arranged for
dances. The pupil should therefore accustom
himself, whenever he has an opportunity Of hear—
ing dances played, to noticing when the primary
beats or ones occur. Usually the first note Of each
bar is accented in the. melody, but this is not
always the case.

In dancing tO music the steps are not always
taken in strict coincidence with the notes Of the
melody, but should agree rather -with the accom-
panying bass which generally marks the rhythm
Of the movement. This rule is one worth while
keeping in mind. If

(Continued on page 371)

351

 

HE IDEA originated when the \Vorcester Girls’
T Club received a collection of seventy-two

clolls from different countries of the world.
The collection had been made by the donor of the
original club house, and was given to the club
members by her daughter. A doll collection seem-
ed such an appropriate gift for a club devoted to
the interests of little girls that it was decided to
give it as much publicity as possible. Our hope
was to make our organization better known in the
community, so we invited the community to take
part in a Festival of Dolls.

The Invitation

The general plan was first to make contacts
with as many social, civic, service and religious
clubs as possible and to interest them in selecting
a doll representing the spirit of their activities
which would compete for a ribbon award at the
festival. In order that our invitation might not be
thrown aside before it was thoroughly understood.
the committee in charge got in touch with. one
key person in each of one hundred and thirty
clubs and organizations to make sure that the plan
was at least discussed by the members. The fol-
lowing letter was mailed to the organization
presidents:

Dear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Board of Directors of the Worcester Girls’ Club
is sponsoring a D011 Festival .on April 26, 27 and 28,
when we hope to have a large number of dolls on ex-
hibition at the club house. A small admission fee will be
charged and the proceeds will be used to bUy equipment
for the club house and for the projected new Girls’ Club
Camp in Holden, Massachusetts.

.We are fortunate in having as the nucleus of our ex—
hibit a collection of seventy-two foreign and character
dolls which belonged to the late Mrs. Henry F. Harris.

Will you help make the festival a success by joining
other organizations of Worcester and entering a doll to
represent your club? Beautiful dolls, quaint dolls, old
or new dolls! Choose any type you wish to represent you.
If you are a man and feeling very helpless in this situa-

352

DORA E. DODGE

Director

Worcester Girls Club

tion may we suggest that there is undoubtedly a woman
somewhere who will be glad to help you. we especially
want dolls from the men’s clubs. The doll may be given
or merely lent. Those which are given will be sold at
auction after the festival.

Enclosed is the list of classifications. we are inviting
you to enter a doll in Class I. In addition to the entry
from your organization we will welcome any doll'en-
tered .by an individual. Awards will be given for the
winning in each class.

Individual Classes

Beside the competition of the clubs and organi-
zations, the following classes were arranged for
individuals :

I. Clubs and organizations

Most representative of its character
II. Individuals
I. Best doll in the show

. Best dressed doll
Best early American doll
Best character doll
Oldest doll
Best nationality doll
Best sport doll
Largest doll in
Smallest doll
Best rag doll
. Cleverest home-made doll
. Best baby doll

13. Best boy doll

14. Best Gay-Ninety doll
III. Girls

1. Best dressed by girls from 10 to 15
years old

2. Best dressed by girls up to 10 years

IV. Best doll made by a boy

.oxopw sweeten

I—ll—ll—l
NH

e blue ribbon collection containing
the center a marriage set from Japan

 

V. Collections
1. Best collections of dolls
2. Best doll family
3. Paper dolls

Collectors were approached individually as we
heard of them, and their interest became apparent
at once. In a short time we had been promised
entries of about twenty-five collections compris-
ing approximately six hundred dolls and were as-
sured of the success of the festival. The clubs
were much slower to show interest, only four or
five responding immediately. We had, however,
been forehanded enough to allow several months
for publicity. It was a new idea and must have
plenty of time to take hold. The picture of the
Rotary Club competing with the Quota Club for
first place in a D011 Show was at first ridiculous,
then amusing, and gradually shaped up in keen
competition. Responses poured in steadily. Clubs
that had thrown the original letter away asked for
another, and those left out demanded a reason and
the rules for qualifying. In the end we had eighty-
one clubs competing.

Adult Interest

While we expected some fun among the or-
ganizations, we felt that the rest of the festival
would be largely children’s entries, and we ar—
ranged the classes accordingly. However, from
the beginning the whole affair was taken over by
adults. Fewer than twenty-five children brought
their dolls for entry while the interest of adults
grew daily. Dolls appeared at the tailors to have
men’s suits fitted, at the hat sh0p to have hats
made, and at the hairdresser to have their hair
done after photographs of long ago fashions.

Worcester Plays Dolls

Being the story of a Doll Fes-
tival which was carried out and
enioyed mostly by the grown-ups!

Calls came to the club house reserving two feet
of space, four feet of space, six square feet, etc.,
until we began to wonder if there would be room
enough for it all. The committee on arrange-
ments faced the task of planning space for whole
collections without knowing whether the dolls
were three inches or two feet in height.

'3

The Arrangement

A neutral background was agreed upon because
the first arrivals for the show brought color
enough upon them. Long tables covered with
brown paper with uprights of unpainted plywood
running through the center formed a fitting set-
ting for our lovely guests. Our only decoration
was a group of national flags suspended from the

side walls and one larger American flag in the
back of the auditorium. ‘

To our delight we found the largest collection -
contained a. marriage set from Japan. One of the
tiny pagodas with its miniature occupants is
owned by every little Japanese girl and is played
with just once a year on Doll Festival Day. A
special little platform was built out from the stage

for this exhibit which seemed to typify the spirit
of the festival.

Our Special Guest

By this time we had inspired confidence. The
World Friendship Committee by special arrange-
ment with the Art Museum of Worcester and
Springfield sent us “Oita San” a beautiful prin-
cess and the ambassador of friendship from the
Children of Japan to the Children of Massachu-
setts. A case was immediately arranged for Oita,
but it was not enough. \Vhen she arrived we

353

354

found she had chosen to
bring her tea set and trous—
seau, and another case had to
be found in a hurry. Clothed
in her graceful robes which
had been fashioned by the
court tailor of Japan, Oita
San smiled her friendly mes—
sage to all who visited the
four day festival.

Dolls and More Dolls!

Over I 500 dolls were entered, labeled, cata-
logued and arranged in classes by the commit-
tees on receiving and, arrangement. For three
days we were too busy to sense just what was
happening at the Worcester Girls’ Club. But
when the last doll was in place and we paused to
.catch our breath, we realized the uniqueness and
and beauty of the exhibit that had grown from
.our efforts. We have never ceased to marvel that
we were entrusted with such treasures as were
_loaned for the display. The entries of old dolls were
worth hundreds of dollars. One group of sev-
.enteen represented over three hundred dollars
cash actually paid by the collector. There were
luster crowned dolls, market
ladies, exquisite French dolls
with their wardrobes so com-
plete that we knew their
little owners were sel-
.dom ever allowed to
play with the treasures,
crude wooden dolls,
very old and showing
signs of having been
much played with,
quaint rag dolls and
and finely jointed wood—-
en dolls not more than
a quarter of an inch
long which must have
been guarded with care
for generations. The
nationality collections
were also valuable and
contained dolls from

every corner of the
earth. They told as
mutely the story of

queer customs and
habits which no geog-
raphy or history books

Our readers will be interested to know
that several of the exhibitors at the fes-
tivalI headed by Mrs. Lewis Wood of
Clinton. MassachusettsI have formed an
organization known as "The Doll Collec-
tors of AmericaI Incorporated." and are
receiving applications for membership
from all parts of the United States. It
has been organized for those interested
in collecting only. Dealers will not be
admitted to membership.

I'Oita San." Ambassador of Friendship
and the guest of honor at the festival

 

lVORCESTER PLAYS DOLLS

had revealed to us.

Some of the organizations
sent whole set ups to repre-
sent their activities and inter-
ests so it was necessary to
add a class in the organiza-
tion competition for any en-
try of more than one doll.
The \Vorcester Polytechnic
Institute Faculty Club work-
ed for weeks dressing dozens
of tiny dolls. In the end they produced a mural
background of the hills back of the athletic field,
a miniature football game with spectators, a
hockey team in action, surveyors at work with
tiny instruments and a shop with machines and
mechanics. They carried off a blue ribbon for
the organization set-ups.

A Jewish organization came second with a
group at table ushering in the Sabbath day. The
\Vorcester Harvard Club captured the third
award with a Yale-Harvard boat race on the
Charles River. A local green house arranged the
setting for them and the tiny sculls and oarsmen
were perfect in every detail. The Kiwanis Club
set up a scoliosis ward with doctors and nurses in
spotless white and a patient
in a real plaster of paris cast.
The \Vorcester W o m a n ’ s
Club won first prize for
single entries with a
replica of the first presi-
dent, copied in detail
from an old photo-
graph. The little lady
was molded in papier
mache and was perfect
in feature and in detail
of dress and position.

x The Lovliest Lady

It would be impossi-
ble to describe all of the
outstanding entries but
we cannot leave out one
doll that captivated the
hearts of everyone. She
was 110 years old and
made of wax so beauti-
fully moulded that you
wondered how she had
survived 110 years of
New England weather,

(Continued on page 372)

A Beginning-ot—School Party

I! POSSIBLE, decorate your party rooms to look
like schoolrooms, with blackboards, chalk, col-
ored cutouts on the walls, books, tablets. pen—

s and maps. Instruct your guests to come in

:id" costume, promptly on time, and have them

.ng their wraps in the “cloakroom.” Give each

little pad or notebook and a tiny pencil. Be sure
have the party leader dressed as an old-fash—

ned “school—marm,” with long skirt, shirtwaist,
asses, hair piled high, and carrying the ever—
esent ruler.

The guests assemble in the schoolroom in or-

rly rows for registration. No whispering, gum-

.ewing, or other acts of misbehavior are allowed.

me pupils must conduct themselves like little

:lies and gentlemen. Each guest makes up a

tmorous or sentimental name with the same ini-

llS as his own, rises and introduces himself.

.hn A. Grant, for instance, becomes Joshua

dolphus Goldschmidt, and Gertrude May Smith

.mes herself Gorgeous Mehitable Spencerling.

he teacher prints this new name on a card which

e guest pins on and wears the rest of the even-

g. On this card, during the party, are put vari-

1s credits or discredits, such as “tardy,” “poor

:havior,” etc. If desired, these cards may be

rger, ruled as for report cards, and used as tal—

:s. Still better, obtain if you can the old—fash-

ned type of report card.

Following registration come lessons, beginning

ith a Speiliug Match. Catchy words are given,
be spelled backward. For each mistake the

teller receives a-I.

Next comes Writing. Guests stand in several

ies, with the same number in each. They face

ther a blackboard or a table with several sheets

:' paper on it. (The table would be, of course,

e teacher’s desk.) The leader of each line is

ven chalk or pencil. The teacher

:ads a certain sentence, one con-

.ining twice as many words as

iere are players in each line.

his is to be written legibly, the
ader of each file hurrying up to
re table or blackboard, writing

Ie first word only, and hastening

ICk to give his chalk or pencil

For the entertaining party out-
lined here we are indebted to
Mabelle Williams, Greeley. Col-
orado, whose suggestions tor a
husking bee as an autumn party
appeared in the Se tember is-
sue ot RECREATI N. Other
parties will be published in later
numbers ot the magazine.

to the next player, who writes the second word.
This continues until each player has made two
trips and written two words, and one line has
completed its sentence. If scores are kept, each
player in the winning line receives a score of 100
opposite Writing on his card.

For the Geography lesson, have the pupils seat—
ed. On their notebooks they are to write the state
abbreviations which they think fit the following
definitions, which are read by the teacher. For tal-
lies, score one point for each correct abbreviation.

Most religious . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Mass.

Most egotistical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Me.

Not for the untidy . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..\Vash.

Father of the states . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Pa.

Most maidenly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Miss.

Useful in haying time . . . . . . . . . . . ..Mo.

Best in time of Food . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ark.

The decimal state . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Tenn.

State of exclamation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0.

The doctor’s state . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Md.

No such word as fail . . . . . . . . . . . ..Kan.

Most unhealthy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ill.

Mohammedan state . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ala.

Mining state . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ore.

"Gold-Brick state" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Conn.

Nature Study is next in order, and notebooks
are still in use. On the blackboard are written the
following flower anagrams and pupils are given a
certain length of time to solve them. For tallies,

score two points apiece for each correct answer.

. one name (anemone)

tears (aster)

chant mus rhyme (Chrysanthemum)
. list came (clematis)

me in a rug (geranium)

one lucky she (honeysuckle)

thy china (hyacinth)

untie pa (petunia)

. a wee pest (sweet pea)

. love it (violet)

p—n

owmwgweww

p—n

For Arithmetic, use relay formation again. On
the teacher’s desk is a large sheet of paper for
each line, and on it are written simple arithmetic

problemS, such as :

7 8 8 9 11 2712/404
+7 X6 4%. —0 -11 -111

II——u—II———-——h-——II———_

 

At a signal, the leaders run up,
work problem number one and
hurry back with pencils for the

next in line. This goes on until
all problems on its sheet have
been worked by one line, and the

355

 

.556 A BEGINNING—OF-SCHOOL PARTY

members of that winning side each get a perfect
score. Just take it for granted that answers are

correct !

Have pupils take their chairs again for Read-
ing. On the blackboard, .or on a separate sheet for

each two players, so they may work in couples,
have the following: "Authors" names are to be

given from initial letters. Score four points for

each correct answer.”

1. Worth Studying (William Shakespeare) _
2. England’s Bright Bard (Elizabeth Barrett Browning)

3. Warbled Wildly (Walt Whitman)

4. Cherished Lunacy (Charles Lamb)

5. Eerily, Awfully, Plutonic (Edgar Allen Poe)

6. Wordy Willy (William \Nordsworth)

7. Arthur’s Troubadour (Alfred Tennyson)

8. Rustic Bard (Robert Burns)

9. Ranks with Elia (Ralph Waldo Emerson)

10. Just Gentle Writer (John Greenleaf Whittier)

11. Was Called Billy (William Cullen Bryant)

12. Perished by Sea (Percy Bysshe Shelley)

13. He Was Lovely (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow)

14. Funny, Bright, Humorous (Francis Bret Harte)

15. Oh! What Humor (Oliver Wendell Holmes)

16. Griselda’s Chronicler (Geoffrey Chaucer)

17. Great Genius, Naughty Boy (George Gordon Noel
Byron)

18. Always Peppery (Alexander Pope)

19. Jocund Rhyming Lawyer (James Russell Lowell)

20. Rather Blind (Robert Browning)

21. Homeless (Homer)

2. Entertaining Fellow (Eugene Field)

23. Just Master (John Milton)

24. Just Won Him (Julia Ward Howe)

25. Wit Meets Tenderness (William Makepiece
Thackeray)

After so many lessons, pupils will be ready for
Recess. Since directed play is in good repute, the
teacher will lead the games. A lively one first,
called Touch. Have the players seated in several
rows. The teacher calls, “Touch—a door!” All
players rush to touch a door and then to regain
their original chairs. The line all seated first wins
and receives a point. At the beginning of the
game, name only one object, then two and three.
then colors. Finally, call the name of a player:
“Touch—"John Jones!” (Consult with him first,
and have him run as soon as his name is called.)
Give ten for each point the lines have won to
each member.

A Nursery Rhyme Contest is sure to be fun.
Divide the players into two groups and have them
compete against each other to see which can sing
the most nursery rhymes. As soon as one side
finishes singing a rhyme the other must begin, and
so they go alternately. For the winning side, a
box of animal crackers makes a good prize.

For How-do-you-do, have circle formation.
One player is “it” and is blindfolded and stands
in the center. The teacher points. to one in the

circle, who, in his natural voice, says, “How-do—
you-do, John,” giving the name of the center
player, who now has three chances to guess who
spoke to him. If he fails, he must try again with

another speaker.

If he succeeds, he changes

places with the one who addressed him.

Lunch may now be served in the school cafe-

teria where food prices are hUng conspicuously.
Or, if your grOUp is not too large, you may have
for each two guests an old-fashioned lunch pail
or box with their refreshments. There may be
cookies and sandwiches in various shapes, and
cocoa with marshmallows, or soda pop with
straws. Or, if possible, strawberry milkshakes.
Apples, bananas, oranges, and other fruits are ap-
propriate. And don’t forget a candy sucker for
each pupil, so he will always remember this first

day of school !

\Vith the beginning of the season for indoor

activities, social recreation programs become im-
portant. Game nights are now exceedingly popu-
lar in this field. The following events are sug-
gestive of what can be developed with little equip-
ment and conducted in small space. Much of the
equipment can be made and other articles pUr-
chased at small cost at novelty stores or at five-

and ten-cent stores.

1.
2.

10.
11.

12.

13.
14.

19.
20.

Dart ball (throwing dart into circles of different

value)
Bounce ball (bouncing a ball into a waste basket

from a given distance)

. Ring games
. Rolling ball into holes of various values
. Tossing a lball into a mouth cut into a cardboard face

3
4
5
6.
7
8

Dart ball with score sheet divided into different tri-
angles or a pear shaped disc

. Spinning the bottle with various values at place of stop
. H00p ball (rolling the ball into a h00p. This hOOp is

raised off the ground and the ball must bounce or
roll over it) ,

Tiddlewinks ,(attempting to nplace the disc onto vari-
ous squares from a starting line)

Ring toss (tossing rOpe quoits over ring)

Ring ball ten pins (rOpe secured on ceiling with ball
attached. Attempt to knock pins down by a single
forward swing) I
Quoits (throwing quoits onto various valued circles
rather than on a pole)

Regular ten pins with indoor baseball

Circling the megaphone (attempting to toss wire
hoops around a megaphone which is standing with
speaking end on tOp)

. Shuffleboard

16.
17.

Golf, using putter and hitting ball into cup

Tin soldiers set up against ping pong net; knock
them down

Small ten pins, using an egg shaped ball to roll l
Air gun with rubber bullets f

Ring toss with several pegs on the pole which are of
different value I

 

When the Wood Gods Call

By

MARY PASCO
Hartford. ConnecticurL

"Welcome!" the wood-god murmured

through the leaves—
Emerson

INCE OUR grammar school days we have been
S answering the call of the wood-gods through

all the changing seasons. Periodically we hunt
up our tried and proven hiking companions,
and start off for the open roads and fragrant
woods. No hitch—hiking is allowed, nor any
unnecessary luggage. If we are spending the
night with the stars, of course we take our
rolled poncho packs; otherwise nothing but
our lunch, a camera, and possibly a harmonica
are allowed to accompany us. \Ve seldom plan
a hike far ahead of time, but suddenly on a
Saturday night the telephone wires are hum-
ming with, “We can get the first trolley out of
the city.” “Well then, you bring the fruit be-
cause we have some extra cold meat,” and
“Don’t you dare wear any good stockings like
you did last time.” That night there is a hur-
ried raid on the stores before they close, and
the following morning finds a group of eager
hikers at the end of the trolley line.

There is a cabin in North Bloomfield which
is our favorite “end of the trail.” It is a three
mile hike from the trolley which means an hour
on the road each way, leaving plenty of time in
'between for little woodland explorations as the
ideal hike should do. This favorite haunt has
grown so upon us that we have found our-
selves turning up there quite frequently during
the last ten or twelve years. Doubtless we
should choose more varied sites at which to
wind up, but North Bloomfield comes first
and last, though of course not always. The big

 

attraction is the fact that the cabin has a brook
on two sides, fields, woods, and hills on four
sides, and the main road is out of sight and
sound.

The cabin has a large fireplace which was
built with boulders from the brook. In the fall
and winter we use it in preparing our dinner,
and to warm the cabin up enough to eat in
comparative comfort. But in warmer weather
we either pull the old table out, or else sit on
the edge of the porch and use a long bench for
a table. But summer or winter we must have
a fire in the fireplace, for a Bloomfield hike is
not complete without toasted cheese sand-
wiches flavored with fragrant wood smoke.
Indeed the preparation of the meal is always
a most festive ceremony, for someone must be
delegated wood—collector, two hikers must go
a .quarter of a mile to the nearest well for a pail
of water, and anyone left is chief cook and
firemaker.

There are fields across the brook which lead
in one direction to another section of the brook,
which, incidentally, twists and turns so about
the country—side that it can be met with in
most any direction. Here along the deeply
shaded banks fringed gentians grow in a blue
riot in early summer on one side; and in the
fall the opposite bank is green and red with
partridge berries. But all year—round stands
our waiting friend, the maple tree, with an out-

357

358 IVHEN THE WOOD GODS CALL

reaching arm always inviting us for a sway
_ among its green leaves. Its overhanging
branches shade the brook, making a cool ren-
dezvous for the bullheads, pickerel, eels and
turtles which we have watched through the
clear depths of the water without disturbing in
their submarine playground.

At the other side of the fields is a swamp at
the bottom of an incline which leads up into
a wild, dense stand of tall, sturdy hardwoods,
which I doubt has seen the woodsman’s axe
since colonial days, if it did then.

It is quite a hike over to the swamp which
is alive with peepers in the spring. The walk
from there up through the tall, deep woods and
back is a good two hour’s hike which we. sel-
dom fail to take each time we go, for there
always seem to be new wonders to be dis-
covered.

I have never seen so many different birds at
once as there are between that swamp and the
hardwood stand. Bluebirds, chickadees, warb-
lers, downy woodpeckers, red-winged blackbirds,
orioles and oven birds are only the beginning
of a long list which we have seen there within
one hour. And the woodland scenes are enough
in themselves to entice us there, for the ash
trees, hickories, and oaks tower above us in
regal splendor. We, insignificant in compari—
on, stand on the forest floor in a purple shad-
ow. Here and there the sun slants across the
shadowed isles, painting the brown trunks
with gold. "

When we finally emerge out into the border-
ing fields, the warm current of air which greets
us makes us aware of the coolness of the shad-
owy woods we have just left. The marked con-
trast has more than once made us stop to ask

each other. why mankind persists in cutting _

down trees and sweltering in the summer heat
when God’s trees provide all the coolness His
creatures need.

On our way back we stop to pay tribute to a
massive oak standing guard in the midst of a
typical Connecticut rock-strewn field. The
broad trunk, spreading out at the base, offers
us little crevices and protuberances to cuddle
into and perch upon, and here we can spend a
few comfortable minutes getting our notes to-
gether, or indulging in reminiscing chatter.

From there we come to the pride of our
“tummies”—the blackberry patch, which is a
mighty popular place in its own special season,

and has provided the most important part of
many a home-made pie. NOr will we ever
forget the stewed blackberries, ideal for bread-
dunking, or the jars and jars of jam. Many
times have we hiked out there just to pick
blackberries, spending hours at the thorny but
purple—sweet labor.

After a short walk across a field of scrubby
sweet-fern, irregularly dotted with short cyl-
inder-like cedars, and very busy with flying
grasshoppers and little orange butterflies, we
come into a shady nook which leads us down
once more to the brook. At this part of its
course it gurgles in and out among green
mossy rocks, gathering itself into little dark
pools behind the larger boulders. Never—be-
tween ,early April and late October—have we
resisted the paddling instinct aroused by those
mysterious, inviting little black pools. The
stream is never deep enough for more exten-
sive ablutions than paddling offers, but once
one of us did don a nineteenth century bathing
suit gleaned from the cabin and managed to
get wet from head to foot.

Dramatizing seems to come second nature
to a group of young folks set free in the coun—
try. One wonders if it isn’t a momentary re-
turn to childhood—to the days when we mim-
icked our elders by “playing store” and “play-
ing house.” At least that is one way of ex—
plaining why, after we come back from our
field and _woodland explorations, we all get the
“make-believe” urge and stage all kinds of
stunts.

Of course any talented member of the group
has no peace until she makes her little contri-
bution to the general fun. And on one memor—
able trip in the fall we had a mock wedding
which was more fun than any similar stunt
played at home with several closets to draw
inspiration from. The “minister” appeared with
a sweater on backwards, glasses at the nose
tip, and bird-guide in hand for a Bible. The
groom, being already dressed in knickers,
merely plastered his hair back with a ribbon.
The bride borrowed a skirt from the superan-
nuated clothing supply in the cabin, and car-
ried a bouquet of dried seed pods. The altar
boy carried a dead-branch candle, while the
maid of honor was gorgeously attired in a
striped blanket. The wedding procession was
an impressive sight, ending up at the old pas-

(Com‘imwd on page 373)

Recreation for Adult Physically Handicapped

A plea for the treatment of physically handi-
capped adults as human beings with all of the
desires and emotions of the physically normal.

HEN ONE hears the term “phy-
W sically handicapped” an associ-
ation is immediately set up
with the term “inability to do things.” The work
being done at the Recreation Center for Adult

Physically Handicapped at 107 \Vashington
Street, New York City, is of a nature which

emphatically proves that the association be-'

tween “physically handicapped” and “inability
to do things,” is wrong.

We have begun our work by the complete
reversal of this thought. We are working on
the premise that the adult physically handi—
capped have the same emotions and urges as
the physically normal adults; that they wish
to participate in life on the same plane; that
they wish to enjoy themselves by doing the
same things that other people do. Emotionally
and mentally, the adult physically handicapped
is the equal of the physically normal. It is
only'in physical activity that the physically
handicapped adult has difficulty. \Ve have
taken as our fundamental principle, therefore,
the fact that the physically handicapped adult
is limited only by the extent of his disability,
and in a number of instances we have been
able to show these people how to overcome
their disabilities to some extent.

\Ve have left the therapeutic question in the
hands of the clinics and the physicians. This
is a field which we feel the laymen cannot
touch without doing harm.
The majority of our people
have been disabled from 20
to 30 years and during that
time have had some of the
best attention medical sci-
ence had to offer. It would
be foolhardy on our part,
therefore, to attempt to step
in and take the place of the
doctor by using therapeutic

Administration.

Association.

By S. S. LIFSON
New York City

The Recreation Center for the Adult
Physically Handicapped of which Mr.
Lifson is the director. is maintained
and staffed by the Works Progress
The building used
has been leased for the period of a
year from the Downtown Cdmmunity
It is hoped that this
demonstration will lead to the es-
tablishment of a permanent center.

methods. we do, however, feel that
we are adequately equipped to
teach these people how to deport
themselves in a social way. In this large city
of ours there is not an agency today that deals
exclusively with the orthopedic physically han—
dicapped. Our recreation center is the first
one to treat this specific problem. It is the first
one to attempt to provide adequate recreation
facilities and leadership for this group.

\K’hen a child is afflicted with poliomyelitis,
its parents immediately attempt to do all that
is humanly possible to counteract the disease.
They spend what money they have and when
that is used they resort to the public hospitals
for treatment. From the day the child is
afflicted it is drilled in upon his young mind
that he cannot do things for himself. The
parents do his thinking and his acting for him.

“7 hen a child is afflicted with poliomyelitis,
put in a class in which he finds other boys and
girls similarly afflicted. He is treated as a
person who is to be kept out of activity, a person‘
who is to forego all the joys of childhood. He is
in a world apart from normal development. He
cannot play with his physically normal brothers
and sisters. When he graduates public school and
enters high school he begins to realize that he can-
not mingle on a social plane with the other boys
and girls; that instead of being offered compaion-

ship and friendship, he is offered sympathy.
When he is graduated

from high school and is
ready to take a place in so—
ciety as a producing agent,
he finds that he is further
handicapped because society
is still obsessed with the idea
that the physically handi-
capped adult is a non-pro-
ducer. As a whole, society
has not come to understand

359

360 RECREATION FOR ADULT PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED

that the handicapped adult does not want sym-
pathy but wishes to secure employment solely
on his ability to do a job, and not because of
his disability. Society has not reached the
stage where it will accept physically handi-
capped adults on a social plane equal to that
of physically normal adults.

Those agencies that are organized to deal
with the adult physically handicapped are or-
ganized solely to provide vocational training
or rehabilitation. The social side or recrea-
tional side of the adult’s life is overlooked. The
adult has leisure like other people. He would
like to engage in recreational activities. He
would like to have a good time. He would
like to meet new people. He would like to have
a job, marry, have children, and live a life
along the same lines as his physically normal
brothers and sisters.

The Program of Recreation

In establishing the Recreation Center for
Adult Physically Handicapped (Orthopedic)
our main thought was to provide recreational
facilities and leadership and a place for social
contact for the physically handicapped of New
York City. Our entire program is set up along
the lines similar to a program that would meet
the needs of any adult group in society. To
date we have been open four months. In that
time,we have had 270 adults register with us.
These people come to us from all parts of

greater New York. Any one who is 18 years
i of age or over and has an orthopedic handicap
is eligible for membership. Our registrants
are examined by our physician to check on the
extent of their disability, so that we might
know how much activity they can indulge in
without suffering any further disability.

During the four months just past we have
developed the following program. The crafts
have proven to be a lield in which our people
are the equal of physically normal adults. Such
activities as wood work, wood chipping, fret
saw work, square knot craft, leather tooling,
metal work, knitting and crocheting are most
attractive to our people. The quality of work
is exceptionally line and the enjoyment de-
rived from making an article is something we
as yet have not found a method of measuring.
When funds permit we hope to enlarge our
craft program and include such things as cook-
ing, sewing, puppet making, marionette mak-

ing, poster work, painting, clay modeling and
sculpture.

Music is a field in which our people take
great joy in participating. Our music school,
although but two months old, has grown to a
considerable size. Piano for beginners and ad-
vanced is taught. Choral work, theory and
harmony, orchestra and violin instruction are
provided.

Dramatics, an activity which we did not
know the’possibilty of, has caught the interest
and imagination of our people. \Ve are just
beginning to realize the tremendous possibili-
ties of this activity. The dramatics class has
met but four or five times and will start pro-
duction on a play in the very near future.

The physical education activities are the ac-
tivities which have given our people most
pleasure and enjoyment. They are the activi-
ties for which they have longed for since their
early childhood. For the lirst time they have
been able to engage in the activities their
brothers and sisters enjoy. Indoor baseball,
basketball, handball, volley ball, soccer, calis-
thenics, paddle tennis, tumbling, travelling
rings, ropes, flying rings, stationery rings, hor-
izontal ladder, circle games, relays, stunts and
swimming are provided. We do not have a
swimming pool but we have been fortunate
enough to secure the use of a swimming pool
uptown. Our class at this pool meets once a
week for an hour and a half. We have taught
a number of adults how to swim and a larger
number have improved their swimming. This
particular activity is co-educational, and also
serves as a social function.

With regard to the social program, for the
time being we are using outside sources to pro-
vide this activity. Our objective, however, is
so to develop our people that they will become
self-sufficient with regard to this activity; that
they will provide their own social functions
such as concerts, plays and parties. '

“Boys and girls who are temporarily or per-
manently handicapped very especially need the
thrill of acquiring and perfecting skill in games
suited to their particular limitations. The experi-
ence of team membership, with all the responsi-
bility and discipline in good sportsmanship that
such membership should entail, as well as the joy
of a contest finely played, should be among their
experiences.”—-Winifred Van Hagen.

 

l

l
l
l

By

GLADYs M. RELYEA
Stanford University

" DESIRABLE leisure pursuit,” says George A.
A Lundberg,* “must fulfill four main require-

ments: (1) It must have the capacity for
being relatively permanently interesting; (2)
It must be as different as possible from the

activities which our station in life forces upon

us; (3) It should as far as possible have both
its origin and its fulfillment in the individual
himself rather than in invidious coercions of
the social or the economic order; (4) It should
be at least compatible with, if not conducive
to, physical and mental health and personality
development.”

The study of natural science fulfills each of
these requirements in the best possible manner.

Deve10ping a Love of Nature

Mr. Lundberg goes on to say: “In addition
to the development of skill in the arts and
crafts, I believe the schools can do more than
they are now doing in the development of a
fondness for outdoor life and the enjoyment of
nature. Nature provides inexhaustible re-
sources for a satisfying use of leisure with a
minimum of equipment or other dependence
upon the industrial and economic structure.”

In addition to the advantages which Mr.
Lundberg presents for the study of nature may
be added the following:

It can be entered into regardless of a per-
son’s age, health, wealth, occupation or race.

It provides all year-round possibilities.

It can be carried on wherever one may be—
city, seashore, farm, parks,
etc.

There are possible agen-
cies of many types in even
very small towns—library,
church, community center,
school, etc.

It furnishes activities for _
many types of persons—ar- our
tistic, literary, scientific; for

"Nature study, an understanding of
the mysteries of birds and plantsI
animals and minerals: an acceptance
of the universe and a love of out-
doors in general, releases men and
women from the slavery to inanimate
things. to office deskI workshop bench
and kitchen table that is the curse of
modern existence.‘I

Swift in Hobbies for Everybody.

Some Possibilities in Science
for the

Leisure Time 0t Adults

those who like to work alone or in groups.

It can remain a very pleasurable hobby or
it can be developed into any avocation, or even
a vocation.

Its activities and results often become so—
cially useful, as the lives of such men as Hooke
and Mendel show us.

Not only does the study of nature lead to
social usefulness, but it is valuable to the indi-
vidual by providing esthetic pleasure and the
pleasure which comes from acquaintanceship
with the natural environment and from being
well informed. It promotes health in mind
and body, gives opportunity for creative ex-‘
pression, offers the joy which comes from just
being out-of—doors, and provides activities to
satisfy all sides of an individual’s nature.

Despite these facts, which seem so obviously
pointing to a strong program in the sciences
in any organization of adult leisure time ac—
tivities, a careful search of fourteen prominent
educational magazines from January, 1929, to
May, 1935, reveals little reference to the Sub—
ject. The years 1932 and 1933 seem richest in
this regard, with a very disappointing decrease
in the last year (1934). This seems all the more
serious when one considers the fact that refer—
ences to other forms of recreational activity
have increased in the past two years.

Believing that one reason for this condition
may be lack of practical suggestions for the
carrying out of a program of science education
for recreation, the writer presents below an out-

line, very inadequate and in-
complete, but which perhaps
will serve to stimulate
. growth in the right direc-
tion. The activities included
are drawn from the articles
referred to above, from per—
s o n a 1 experience, from a

 

J. Otis

“ “Training for Leisure,” Teachers Col-
lege Record, Volume 34, April, 1933,
pages 569 to 579.

36.1

362 SOME POSSIBILITIES IN SCIENCE FOR LEISURE TIME

study of actual activities
in several communities.

 

NOTE: (Those activities marked
* require from one to ten dollars ’
for initial equipment; t h o s e
marked ** require from ten dol-
lars up; those unmarked require
no outlay.)

astronomy.

Outdoor Activities

I. Appreciation, Study. Col-
lection. Recording—in the
field

I. Animal identification
and habit study

a. Insects—“butterflies, moths, beetles, galls, any
special order, ecology, economic importance, etc.

b. Birds—migration, nests, songs, of shore, of
woods, etc., *ubird-banding

c. Mammals—tracks, economic importance

d. Lower vertebrates—snakes, amphibians, fish

**e. MicroscOpic life—fresh and salt water; ponds,

streams, etc.

f. Shore life—tidepools, shells, sands, associations,
etc.
2. Plant identification and habit study

*a. Flowering plants—certain families, or orders;
associations, edible plants, pollination apparatus,
other sorts of adaptations

*1). Trees’ and shrubs

*c. Ferns

*d. Mosses

*e. Mushrooms

*f. Seaweed

*g. Galls

**h. Fresh and salt water microscOpic plants

3. Study'of associations, habitats. Intensive
study of any of these plants and animals
in a small area. Study of changes due to
seasons, light, temperature. *Experimenl
tation with factors.

4. Earth study

a. Rocks and minerals—certain regions, method
of formation

b. Geologic formations

*5. Study of the heavens—possibly M)

a. Constellations, stars, sun
b. Planets, moon, and movements
c. 'Various unusual astronomical events

6. Weather study

a. Records of daily conditions (* or ** depending
on instruments)

b. Clouds
*7. Painting, sketching, photographing, **re-
cording experiences

8. Prose, poetry, music, inspired by experi-
ences

9. Travelling

a. Collecting experiences while driving through the
country—famous trees, virgin timberlands, sun-
sets, state flowers, fire-towers, state forests, in—

sect control measures. Keeping records of these

in diary, photographs, sketches

"The love of beauty seems to be innate,
seems to be born in us. Certainly I have
never seen any boy or girl, man or
woman, who did not love the beautiful
in one form or another. This is doubt-
less one of the bases of our interest in
For what could be more
beautiful than the night sky' with its
myriad of stars, the wandering planets,
the everchanging moon, and the glori-
ous Milky Way. which we are now be-
ginning to understand."—Dr. Clyde
Fisher in Hobbies for Everybody.

lb. Visiting national, state,
city parks, observator-
ies, museums, nature
trails

‘c. Seeking out one’s own
spots of interest—inten-
sive study of a small
area, mapping out beauty
points, interesting na-
ture objects, etc., keep—
ing records.

II. Appreciation, Study, Col-
lection, Recording, Culti-
vation—at home

I. Care and breeding of
animals—as pets, for
selling

**a. Dogs—various breeds according to preference,
p0pularity, purpose, space, etc.

**b. Chickens, pigeons, ducks, turkeys, etc.

**c. Bees

**d. Larger animals

2. Care and breeding of plants for pleasure

or for sale

**a. Flowers and shrubs—varied, or special varieties
*b. Vegeta'bles

*c. Desert garden

*d. Rock garden

*e. Nations’ gardens

f. Wild flower garden
*g. Pond flowers

“‘3. Building of cold frame, greenhouse, ken- I

nels, coops
*4. Building of weather study equipment
**5. Building of telescope and observation
equipment
*6. Bird-banding, migration study
*7. Fish-breeding; construction of pond

Indoor Activities

I Reading (at home or at a library, for appre-
ciation, practical information, or general
information)

I. History of biology, zoology, botany, ge-

ology, etc.
. Biographies of famous scientist
. Explorations, past and present

2
3 O I
4. Information on the topices of one’s interest
5. Directions for the construction of tele-.

scope, garden, etc.
6. Prehistoric plants and animals
7. Animal biographies
8. Nature poetry
9. Current science articles, books

II Radio lecture's

III Moving pictures (strictly or popularly sci-

entific

SOME POSSIBILITIES IN SCIENCE FOR LEISURE TIME 363

IV Museums
1. Reading and study in connection with

special exhibits
2. Information from docent, guide, lecturer,
study groups

V Home
I. Keeping up one’s collections—records,
identification, classification, special facts,
artistic arrangement _
2. Diary of observations either simply or
elaborately done
. \Vriting and publishing of nature articles
4. Sketching, painting, modelling from data
from the field
5. Poetry and music stimulated from nature
experiences
6. Handicraft — baskets from materials
gathered in the field, candles, nature de-
signs for cards, linens, etc.
7. Drawing the landscaping plans for one’s
own garden, or friend’s
8. Drawing up planting and breeding
schedules; keeping records
*9. Developing and printing photographs
IO. Planning the construction of kennels,
greenhouse, observatory, etc.
. Microscope — makin g slides, photo—
graphs, movies, various experiments
12. Miniature gardens, unusual plant dec—
orations

*13. Breeding birds and tish

14. Keeping and studying pond cultures
*15. Terraria
*16. Aquaria

17. Drawing pictorial maps of one’s travels

*18. Collecting pictorial stamps of bird—s,
plants

OJ

Agencies for Outdoor and Indoor Activities

I. Library

I. Reading lists on various topics

2. Study groups

3. Information printed by librarian

4. Exhibits of books, and pictures

5. Magazines of national organizations in the
more common fields of nature hobbies—-
horticulture, bird study, poultry

II. Museum

I. Lectures, movies, lantern slides
2. Study groups
3. Docents

4. Field trips, bird walks, nature trails

5. Clubs affiliated with the museum

6. Special courses for teachers, counsellors,
parents, general public

7. Hobby clubs

8. Special libraries

III. Parks
I. Bird, flower, astromony, clubs—projects,

field trips, lectures
General field trips with guides

Nature trail

2.
3.
4. Museum and exhibits
5. Special libraries

6.

Lectures on horticulture, tree culture,

other topics

IV. Botanical Gardens and Zoological Parks
I. Garden tours with guides

2. Pamphlets

3. Affiliated clubs
4. Seed exchange
5. Lectures

6. Special libraries

V. Public School System

I. Elementary, high school, junior college,
and university evening and extension
courses for adults

2. Lectures for the public

3. Parent groups

4. Agricultural extension work
5. Adult education centers

VI. Private Organizations

I. National—American Kennel Club, Garden
Club of America, American Nature Asso-_
ciation, Wild Flower Preservation Soci-
ety and others, most of which publish
journals of their activities

2. Local—garden clubs with garden tours,
practical lectures, demonstrations, librar-
ies; acquarium societies; dog fanciers;
(most of these also have publications for
members, at least)

3. Social service—Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A.,
Scouts

4. Community projects — public museum,

hobby shows, playground projects, com-
munity centers, beautify the city week.

small garden contests, etc.
(Continued on page 374)

Bulgaria Learns to Play

By ALLEN MCMAHON

OLLOWING the \Vorld War and the exchange of
F populations that caused migrations of liter-
ally millions of people from one Near East-
ern country to another, Bulgaria, like the other
Balkan states and the countries that fringe the far
shores of the Mediterranean Sea, received its
quota of refugees. Some 700,000 Russians, Ar-
menians and Macedonian Bulgars found a haven
there. In order to help in the adjustment of these
“refugees to life in a strange country, the Ameri-
can Near East Relief, which was engaged in
refugee and orphanage work in eight countries,
shipped old clothing into Bulgaria for free distri-
bution among the most needy. L. E. 'Feldmahn,
himself a Russian refugee, then in charge of Red
Cross work in Bulgaria and formerly a civil aid
in W'rangel’s army, was made director of this
clothing enterprise. It entailed receiving the ship-
ments from America, the employment of refugee
labor in sorting and reconditioning, and the main-
tenance of a bureau to effect the distribution.

The Playground Is Initiated

\Vith the incorporation of the Near East Foun-
dation in 193.0 to succeed the Relief Committee, it
was decided to experiment with a type of work
that would be more constructive. Mr. Feldmahn
therefore established in the poorest section of
Sofia a district known as Koniovitsa, the first
playground in Bulgaria.

The beginnings of the Koniovitsa playground
were modest. The equipment was chiefly home-
made or at least very inexpen-

,sive. Some primitive home-

the joy of play and had begun to realize the bene—
fits claimed the place as their own. Koniovitsa
hummed with activity.

His success strengthened Mr. Feldmahn’s con-
viction that through wholesome play Bulgaria
could help to counteract the effects of centuries
of hardship. He thought if he prepared a manual
of playground construction and play practices, the
day might come when there would be some use
for it. Even his faith, however, did not prepare
him for what was to come, for that manual, in a
country that had never before known a play-
ground, is now in its third printing, 800 copies of
it being already in use.

By the close of last summer fifty playgrounds
had been established and twenty-eight others were
opened this summer.

Mr. Feldmahn at Koniovitsa has trained the
leaders' for these playgrounds at the request of the
Bulgarian government. When he first said he
would undertake the job he received 800 appli-
cations. To date 140 have received the training
and courses for others are being conducted this
summer. A graduate of the course has just pub-
lished a book on playgrounds from the point of
view of an ordinary playground worker.

It is proving to be quite a task to turn out
leaders fast enough to supply the demand. Last
fall the Ministry of Interior and Public Health

sent the following letter:

To Messrs. the Governors of the'Regions of the Kingdom.
To the Municipality of Sofia.

The American Near East Founda-
tion has deve10ped since 1930 in Bul-

made' shower baths were install-
ed and eventually a swimming
pool. He encountered a good
deal of suspicion of this strange
place, where children were ex-
pected only to play—to have a
good time—and the attendance

was small. But in a year’s time
they came swarming. More than
2,000 children who had tasted

364

A simple attempt on the part of an
American'educational organization
to introduce play to a people long
oppressed by foreign domination,
wars, poverty and the grim strug-
gle for existence, has resulted in
unforeseen success in the far dis-
tant country of Bulgaria in eastern
Europe. The story of the establish-
ment of the first playground known
in Bulgaria and of the development
of other phases of general welfare
makes a fascinating tale.

garia energetic activities for creat-
ing in the cities and Villages of the

Kingdom playgrounds for children,
which are very useful for the physi-

cal and cultural development of the
growing generation. meg to these
activities, which have found a warm

response in this country, the idea of
playgrounds for children became

popular and the initiative to organ-
ize them was taken up at full Speed.
This was especially favored during

the past two years by the organization
of courses for training playground
leaders, in Which the Foundation en-

I loved the precious sup-

BULGARIA LEARNS TO PLAY 365

port of the Ministry of
Public Instruction. Grad-
uates of these courses be-
came the most fervent
pr0pagators of the ideas
launched by the Founda-
tion.

However, the realiza-
tion of this very useful
cultural initiative requires
funds, which cannot
always come from private
sources but have to be
provided also by public
ones, respectively 'by the
Communities in the King-
dom. The funds necessary
for the maintenance of a
Children's Playground
are not so big as to over-
burden the budget of any
Community be it in a vil-
lage or in a city, so much
more as the Communities
spend a lot of money for
supporting the poor, the
sick and helping charitable institutions. With a sum of
from 5,000 to 10,000 levas ($55. to $110.) in a rural
Community or from 10,000 to 20,000 levas ($110. to
$220.) in an urban one, it is possible to organize and to
maintain a playground for children. Compared with the
results which are obtained through such playgrounds,
these sums are negligible and can be provided by the
budget of every Community in the Kingdom.

Taking into consideration that only the projects main-
tained by local means and forces can be resultful and
lasting, the Ministry recommends you to call the atten-
tion of the Communities and the Regions entrusted to
you, to give their material support to playgrounds for
children. This is so much more desirable as the solution

of this serious social question is of capital importance to

the future of the Nation. -
(Signed) P. STEPHANOFF,

General Secretary
CHR. MILKOFF,

Chief of the Department.

In innumerable ways the evidence grows that
Bulgaria is becoming “play conscious and health
wise.” A recent law provided for thirty minutes
of physical education daily in every public school.
The government has started a seven months’
course in physical culture in which Mr. Feldmahn
has been invited to lecture. Studénts of this
course visit Koniovitsa and participate in its ac-
tivities. Requests from teachers and school in-
spectors, as well as from local institutions, for
advice in building, equipping and programizing
playgrounds and children’s clubs are pouring in.
A plan is under way to organize short courses by
districts to instruct public school teachers in
sound methods. Some 2,000 teachers already have
been reached by lectures given by Mr. Feldmahn
and his Bulgarian assistant, B. Vassilief‘f. The
Department of Education refers all inquiries con-
cerning playgrounds to Mr. Feldmahn. Mr. Vas-
silieif has been appointed by the government to

Courtesy Near East Foundation

 

inspect all playgrounds in the country and report
to the Department of Social Welfare.

The following letter is typical of many which
are received by Mr. Feldmahn, asking for assist-
ance in organizing a playground:

March 26, 1935.
The Municipality of Svistchoff
To the Near East Foundation, Sofia:

We intend to organize a playground for about 200-250
children from the age of 5 to 10. We dispose of a ground
of about 3,000 square metres, which is now, as shown on
the enclosed sketch, a public garden; up to 1,800 square
metres are occupied by flower beds and shrubs. Near to
the garden there is a tap, now for general use; trees
giving shade as well as toilets are lacking. The garden
is fenced by good wire net supported by concrete posts.
The community has foreseen in its budget a sum of
30,000 levas for children's playgrounds. .

Please give us your advice and instruction about th
organization of a playground, taking into consideration
the conditions described above.

(Signed) BOGDAN S. PENEFF, Mayor
MICHAEL V. DOBRILOFF, Engineer.

A Health Center Established

In order to develop the Koniovitsa program to
effect an improvement in the general living level,
as is the objective in all the Near East Founda-
tion’s projects in agricultural education, health,
welfare and recreation, it was decided to expand
the work to touch upon the various phases of.
home and community life.

A health center was therefore established ad-
joining the playgropnd. Here examinations are
made and records kept of all children using the
Center, and an intimate welfare service is main-
tained that reaches into the homes to assure the
continuance of improved health established at the
health center through corrective exercises, sun

366 BULGARIA LEARNS TO PLAY

baths and supplementary feeding. Classes for
mothers are held in prenatal and child care, as
well as diet and home hygiene. The services cover
1,000 homes and 6,700 people.. Soon simple im-
provements appeared in the homes, and a new and
beneficial cleanliness. This led to the institution
of “Cleanup Days,” which have become an an-
nual spring event. Each year posters are printed
inviting the people to Koniovitsa to thoroughly
clean and whitewash their homes, toilets and yards
before the holidays. The posters are distributed
to the mothers visiting the Center and are fixed to
walls and posts. An appeal from the Foundation
is then read at all corners by the municipal
“drummer,” who is like a Colonial American town
crier except that he carries a drum instead of a
bell. Lectures are given by the Foundation doctor
and the local health officer. As the “Cleanup
Day” approach, the houses and yards, as well as
the fruit tree trunks, become immaculately white;
garbage and the year’s accumulation of trash is
gathered in piles at the sides of the roads, then
carts from the Municipal Cleanliness Service ar-
rive, forty in number, and the rubbish is taken
away. This year the number of cartloads was less
than last year, about 450 instead of 700. The value
of this welfare work receives constant and flatter-
ing recognition from the Government.

A Club for Children

Supplementing the playground and health cen-
ter, a children’s club was established, also the first
project of its kind in Bulgaria. The club has a
regular enrollment of 354, with groups from
schools averaging
twelve visits a month.

whole schools; in the secondary schools, 4.0 as
against: 3.7.

Last February Mr. Feldmahn was asked by the
Department of Education to lecture on play-
grounds and children’s clubs in courses recently
organized to give teachers in primary schools
some elementary knowledge of physical and man-
ual education. Seven lectures were given in Sofia
and six in the provinces, with a total attendance
of 1,500.

During the winter Mr. Feldmahn was invited
to join a special commission appointed by the Min-
ister of Public Instruction to work out a project
concerning the education of pre—school and out-
of—school children. At the first meeting of the
commission a law was drafted to promote and
regulate different kinds of kindergartens and to
“realize on a large scale the demonstrations car-
ried out so successfully by the Near East Foun-
dation in Koniovitsa.” Four months later the pro-
posals of the commission were made into a law.
The first part of the law concerns creches and
kindergartens; the second part, children’s clubs.

According to this new law:

1. Children's Clubs aim to help children of pre-school
and school age to spend their leisure time in a sound
atmosphere and to develop in them positive health'
social and moral habits.

2. Each complete Children’s Club should have: A play-
ground in the open, a playroom, a study hall, a read-
ing room with a library, and some workshops.

3. Children’s Clubs are being organized either at every
school or one for a group of neighboring schools in a
place which is most convenient for the purpose. Where
conditions do not favor the Opening of a complete
club, the nucleus of one must be started.

4. Children’s Clubs, or the initial unit, are opened fol-
lowing Special instruc-
tion.

5. The direction of a Chil-

 

The children have les-
sons in music and hand—
crafts and study hours
for their regular school
work. Last year a sur-
vey was made of the
school success of the
club children and it was
found that those who
had attended the club
regularly had'shown the
greatest improvement
in their school work. In
the primary schools the
club members had an
average rating of 5.1 as
against 4.7 for the

THE RESULTS

78 playgrounds serving more than 30,000 children'
where five years ago no playground existed.

I40 play leaders trainedI with more to follow. ,,

Children's clubs appearing all over the country.
where two years ago there was not one.

The enactment of laws providing for the estab-
lishment of both playgrounds and clubs.

Infant mortality rate in a district showing the
worst record in the country to a point where it
showed the best.

|,000 homes showing improved hygienel sanita-
tion. child care and general well-being.

A whole district blossoming with cleanliness.
Little gardens producing fresh green foods.
Fine poultry and eggs supplementing incomes.

Trees and bushes to give shade and beauty to an
otherwise poverty-stricken neighborhood.

dren’s Club is intrusted
to the necessary number
of specially trained
teachers, one of whom
is the chief director of
the club. The work in
the club is considered as
regular school work
with regard to the pay-
ment of teachers for
class hours.

6. The teachers are being
trained for directing
Children’s Clubs in
special institutions or
courses organized by the
Ministry of Public In-
struction or by the Re-
gional Inspectors.

Mr. Feldmahn feels
that the Near East

(Continued on page 374)

*WORLD AT PLAY

 

A Farmers‘

Opera

THE magazine Time
for July I, 1935, tells
of an all rural produc-
tion of “The Bohemi-
an Girl” in June at the
State College football
field in Ames, Iowa.
The cast of I75 sing—
ers chosen by competi-
tion represented 47
Iowa counties and the
achievement of the fif-
teen year ambition of
Josephine A. Bakke,
State 4-H club leader
who inaugurated the
local singing groups.
In the opera the hero-
ine was played by Virginia B. Mullane, a farm-
er’s wife who has two children and who sings in
a church choir. Thaddeus was played by Evan
Davies who studied music in Chicago and who
now rides a tractor across the fields of Iowa. The
Gypsy Queen was a chicken authority, and Devils-
hoof a farmer in Hardin County. More than
8,000 Iowans saw the performance. Great in-
genuity was shown in the making of the costumes.
“A wine colored cape had once been a feather
tick. Old lace curtains had been doctored beyond
recognition. The barefooted ‘gypsies’ shook pie
plate tambourines, wore chicken feed sacking
which had been dyed yellow and scarlet, and trim-
med with bits of shiny tin. Average cost per cos—
tume: 13 cents.”

Photo from Wide IVorId

 

John D. Rockefeller,
Jr., has turned over to
the Commissioners of
Palisades Interstate
Park 700 acres along the crest between George
Washington Bridge and the state line on condition
that no buildings will be erected tall enough to be

A Beauty Spot
Preserved

 

 

seen from the east
bank of the Hudson
River. Thus there will
be preserved for New
York its beautiful view
of the Palisades of
New Jersey. The Park
Commission now owns
75 per cent of the
frontage land it needs
to build a parkway.

Wabash County’s
Celebration

THIS year the City
of Wabash and Wa-
bash County, Indiana,
will celebrate the
100th anniversary of
the founding of the

first white settlement.
An outdoor theater will -be constructed with relief

labor. and with a minimum amount of work and
expense seating arrangements will be made for
between ten and twenty thousand people. In addi-
tion to the pageant part of the celebration. there
will be a series of pilgrimages to historic places
with special exhibits of antiques and a mammoth
historic and industrial parade.

C O N G R E S S has
passed the Wagner-
McLaughlin Bill in-
corporating the Ameri-
can National Theater and Academy and naming a
list of patrons of the arts as the original incor-
porators. The incorporation is set up without
federal endowment to present productions of the
highest type in the drama; advance this interest by
the production throughout the country of the best
plays acted by the best actors at a minimum cost;
encourage the study of the drama in schools, uni-
versities and colleges, and deve10p the art and
technique of the theater through a school within-
the proposed national academy.

Congress Authorizes
National Theater

367'

368

Playground Equipment With a History——
The children of Somerset County, New jersey,

have enjoyed new equpiment on their play-
grounds this past summer, and the material from

which it is made represents confiscated prop-
.erty seized by the federal government from
bootleggers. Realizing that the material would
be useful in many ways,'the suggestion was
made to the internal revenue officials that the
material be given the New jersey State ERA,
with the result that there are now in ERA
workshops thousands of feet of first quality
spruce and fir, quantities of pipe and fittings,
and hoops from vats. The fir and spruce are
being used in making seats, tables, sand boxes
and basketball goals, while the pipes and fit-
tings are used in the swings. The hoops from
vats serve for bolts, rods and basketball goals.
Municipalities and recreation commissions are
furnishing the funds for the purchase of chains
.and other equipment that cannot be made at

the shops.

Scranton’s New Field House—The new field
house at Weston Park in Scranton, Pennsyl-
vania, the materials for which Mr. and Mrs.
WVeston contributed $20,000, is a colonial struc-
ture with a beautiful social hall 40' by 80’, a
large fireplace, lockers, seats around the entire
floor, and a rubber composition tile floor. On
the main floor there are three other small
rooms and lavatories for men and. women. The
-entire house is equipped with a loud speaker
system with two large speakers in the audi-
torium, one in each of the other rooms and
one or two outside the building making it pos-
sible to give outside announcements. The
labor on the project has been furnished as a

federal project.

A Civic Theater for Charleston—The City of
Charleston, S o u th Carolina, recently pur-
chased the property known as Planters Hotel,
probably one of the early most outstanding
hotels of the country and certainly of the
South. Adjacent to this is an old theater dat-
ing back to early colonial days and one of the
first to be erected in America. The plan is to
remodel these buildings and to have a civic
theater.

Home Work Eliminated—Milton C. Potter,
Superintendent of Schools of Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, has made the recommendation, which

WORLD A T PLA Y

the School Board Instruction Committee has
indorsed, that home work be completely abol-
ished in the first six grades. One hour of home
study is deemed sufficient by the superintend-
ent for the seventh and eighth grade pupils.
Mr. Potter points out in his report that the
first six years of the elementary school consti-
tute an important growing period of a child’s
life. The child needs play and physical exer-
cise in the hours out of school. It is more
important that healthy bodies be built up in
these years than that the mind be crammed
with knowledge.

Camping World—In May a new magazine
Camping I/Vorld, made its bow to the public.
Announced as a national magazine for camp
directors, owners and executives, it will be
published from january to October. Articles
in the first issue include “Waterfront Protec-
tion,” by Captain Scully; “What I Think of
Camping”; “Movies”; “Masks”; A Forum on
Camping Problems, and a Food Bureau. The

editorial and executive offices are at 11 East
44th Street, New York City.

A New Park in Pontiac—In June, Pontiac,
Michigan, dedicated its newest park—a forty-
five acre site bought in 1919. Grading and
construction on a roadway were begun in 1929.
The rest of the work was carried on little by
little as the city had funds. Four double tennis
courts and 1,000 feet of water lines have been
built with CWA help. The city has planted
2,000 shrubs and 6,000 trees. Five acres of the
park have been left in their natural wooded
state for camping.

An Institute for Bird Lovers —- Sportsmen,
farmers and all interested in game birds and game
bird food were invited to attend a one day sports-
men’s institute held in October at the W. K. Kel-
logg Bird Sanctuary at Wintergreen Lake near

Battle Creek. Sections were devoted to exhibi- ‘

tlons and studies of small game especially of
native Michigan game and song birds. There were
displays of native game bird foods. A field trip

was taken through the sanctuary and the adjoin--

ing Kellogg experimental farm.

A Good Turn—The local Boy Scout Troop
of Republic, Wash., recently proved them-
selves real workers during an outing at the
Ten-Mile camp ground, Coville National For-
est. Twelve of. the boys turned out at 7:00

WORLD AT PLAY

A. M. They were transported in a U. S. Forest
Service truck to the camp ground where they
worked for about four hours under the direc—
tion of Scoutmaster Lewis Stevens and Forests
Ranger Hogan. The portion of the camp
ground that has been used previously was
raked; tin cans and other debris were picked
up; a garbage pit was dug, and approximately
a quarter of an acre of additional area was
cleared of underbrush.

An Old—Fashioned Dance Festiva1.——The
dances of the gay nineties and of even earlier
times have been enjoying a tremendous revival
of popularity in Los Angeles, California, with
the result that old—fashioned dancing groups
have been holding regular programs through-
out the year. The best of these dancers donned
their old time costumes and took part in a
festival held in March under the auspices of
the Playground and Recreation Department.
Stately waltzes, gay Virginia reels and intri-
cate quadrilles were danced to the music of
scraping hddles.

Wanted—A Steel Grandstand!——Dr. Laurens
H. Seelye of St. Lawrence University, Canton,
New York. writes that he is interested in learn-
ing whether there is a recreation center or athletic
field in the process of being dismantled which
might have for sale a steel grandstand. If any of
our readers have such a grandstand to dispose of
Dr. Laurens will appreciate hearing from him
immediately.

Sioux City Plans a I-IaIIowe’en Program
(Continued from page 3:10)

. . . . . . . .. The article mentioned must be some-
thing beginning with the letter “A” and found in
a grocery store, such as apples. The second player
repeats, “I am going to the grocery store to buy
apples and 'bananas.” The third person repeats
and adds an article beginning with “C” and so on
through the alphabet. Each one must repeat what
has been said before.

Give and Take—Players are seated in circle for-
mation. A circle in the center one foot in diameter
contains the beater. The player who is “it” stands
in the center, takes the beater, hits any person in
the circle on the knee, and places the beater back
in the circle. The player hit takes the beater and

 

CARROMS . . a

favorite family game
since I889 now takes

on a new community
significance

A nation-wide Carrom Tournament Program has
been completed by the recently organized Na-
tional Carrom Association and is now in process
of execution.

The purpose of the program is to direct, en-
courage and extend the Carrom Tournament idea
which originated among thousands of boys’ clubs
and groups during the last few years without
suggestions or incentives on the part of the man-
ufacturers of Carrom Game Boards.

The Carrom Tournament Program as developed
by the National Carrom Association is complete
in every detail. National advertising on a com-
prehensive scale is employed to stimulate interest
among boys and girls. Every child responding
to the advertising is admitted to membership in
the Carrom Club; furnished with an ofiicial
membership badge: urged to organize a local
Carrom Club consisting of eight or more mem-
bers: supplied with complete instructions on how
to start and conduct a Carrom Tournament and
how to become a Carrom Champion.

Valuable free championship prizes are offered to
tournament winners by the Association. Maxi-
mum interest is created at minimum cost. Or-
ganizing is completed for the most part by the
Carrom Club members themselves.

We believe the Carrom Tournament Program is
worthy of your consideration. It offers a won~
derful opportunity for every one interested in
juvenile recreation to sponsor a constructive
community project, at no cost to the community.
and with minimum organizational effort. We
invite you to write for full information.

 

ACTUAL SIZE

 

This beautiful Carrom Carrom Tournament cham-

Club membership badge. pions are awarded tbis

cast in solid bronze. is valuable silver medallion

sent to every Carrom Club by the National Carrom

Tournament applicant. Association. Actual size.
3” x  0'

NATIONAL CARROM
ASSOCIATION

zooo LUDINGTON AVENUE
LUDINGTON @- @- MICHIGAN

 

 

369

370 SIOUX CITY PLANS A HALLOWEEN PROGRAM

tries to hit the person who was “it” before he
reaches his place. If he succeeds in hitting the
person before he reaches his place, he places his
beater in the circle and finds his place before be-
ing hit.

Electric Shock—Divide the circle into equal
groups. Players on each side join hands. At the
signal, the leader of each group squeezes the
hand of the person next to him and so on down
the line until the shock has traveled down to the
end person who raises his hand as soon as he
receives the shock.

Poorhouse — Players are seated in horseshoe
fashion with two chairs placed at the opening of
the horseshoe representing the poorhouse. Play-
ers select a partner and all join hands. Every pair
of players is numbered. The two in the poorhouse
call out two numbers. and the two couples
whose numbers are called must change places
with the people in the poorhouse, trying to get
one of the places. The couple who fails to get a
place must go to the poorhouse.

Do This—Do That—Players all stand and face
leader. The leader assumes any gymnastic posi-
tion or imitates any action, at the same time say-
ing “Do this.” The others immediately imitate.
Should the leader at any time say “Do that,” any
player who imitates the action must be seated.
Positions are head bendings, trunk bendings,'hop-
ping, dancing steps, sawing, washing, ironing,
shoveling, etc.

Guessing Game with Matches—The leader places
five or six matches on the floor before him. His
accomplice leaves the room. The leader asks one
of the group to select a match, and when one is
decided upon the accomplice returns. The leader
asks his partner, “Is this the one?” “Is it that
one?” pointing to the various matches. The ac-
complice guesses which one. The trick is this:
The leader moves his foot ever so slightly when
he points to the match which has been selected.

Ghost Story—All lights off but one dimmed blue
light.

Duck for Apples or marshmallows on a string.
Refreshments—Pop corn and apples. Provided

by P. T. A.

Leader’LEQuipmmf—Chalk; two beaters, knot-
ted towel; whistle; four rubber balls.

General Snpplics— Prizes; table lamp; blue
paper; apples, two tubs for each school; marsh—
mallows; string.

The Leisure and Esthetic Interests
of the Rural Child

(Contimwd from page 343)

of a more satisfying life. When children want to
take part in group music, both vocal and instru-
mental; when they want to participate in drama-
tics; when parents see the values of artistic ex-
pression for boys as well as for girls, and when
the children themselves feel a lack of coordina-
tion in institutional programs, it would seem that
the doors of opportunity are invitingly open to
the forces of education and religion to step in
jointly and do something.

we need not only many a modern Moses to
lead the children of economic disadvantage into
a more abundant land of plenty, but also we need
evangelists of art—as musician Joe Maddy has
been described for his work with children in many
parts of the country—to lead our young people
into enriching fields of artistic expression. Many
are the rural communities that challenge a poten-
tial leadership able to help make happier and
more constructive use of what seems destined to
be an increasing accumulation of leisure time.

Studies such as those by Hartshorne and May
have shown clearly that where the home, the
school, and the church foster the appreciation of
the beautiful and stimulate the pursuit of the ar—
tistic, the troublesome child is not commonly
found. Those who lead the children of today into
such paths of constructive activity are real

patriots.

Atter Twenty-Five Years
(Continued from page 344)

orderly in its appearance. Equipment became bet—
ter and more varied, and today the young people
of \Vyomissing enjoy every sort of outdoor recre—
ation during good weather and in inclement
weather there are ample provisions for other ac-
tivities. A large pavilion was recently built to
store the equipment during the winter months
and this includes instructors’ ofhces and caretak—
ers’ quarters. Besides this, weekly dances, rub-
ber quoiting, shuffleboard playing. picnicking, as
well as roasting on the built-in fireplaces are made
possible by this facility.

The new tennis courts have been built to per—
mit ice skating during the winter months, and
lighting units have been installed making them

LEGISLATING FOR AN EMERGENCY 371

available after dark. The new swimming pool is
modern in every detail and, with its surrounding
wall of natural stone, adds to the attractiveness
of the playground. There is also an outdoor hand-
ball court and a baseball field, and the latest ad—
dition is a modern quoiting court.

Organized daily and evening activities under
expert supervision have furnished Wyomissing
citizens both young and old with active summer
months. Records show that the average daily at-
tendance today is 700, as compared to an average
daily attendance of 50 in the beginning. All this
makes it possible for this little borough to boast
of the finest playground of similar size in the
United States.

 

Legislating For an Emergency
(Continued from page 348)

per capita on 5000 books short. After much
discussion the Secretary was instructed to file
the protest of the VRA with the National
Recovery Administration, declaring the pro—
posed schedule to be unfair and unjust.

Now a feeling of sadness comes over us as
we realize how still and deserted the library
has become. Gone are the happy vacation days,
the eager little faces, the childish enthusiasm—
gone for another year.

 

Recreation Goes to the State Fair
(Continued from page 350)

lished at the Fair. A method of publicity which
brought numerous comments from pleased
listeners. This active demonstration of recrea-
tion work proved a potent factor in the general
success of the exhibit.

The happy combination of the New York
State Fair authorities and workers with those
of the Municipal Recreation Commission
proved such a valuable asset to both organiza—
tions that a permanent alliance has been formed
so that no future New York State Fair will be
complete without the activities and exhibits
of the work of the Municipal Recreation Com—
mission of Syracuse.

_—-....-...-——-

Music in the Dance Program
(Continued from page 351)
In teaching any particular dance or movement,

music should be selected that will readily accom-
modate itself to the required steps or actions, or,

 

Eagle Ringer:
(patented)

DIAMOND
PITCHING

HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write tor
tree instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.

DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-
cessories are the choice of protes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent construc-
tion—their high quality materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4510 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. MINN.

if possible. exactly correspond with them. Later
on in the course the melody should be varied and
elaborated.

These first two periods of instruction must not
be confined to theory alone but should be made
practical by allowing each pupil to participate.
This could be arranged in the following manner.
Allow the class to listen to a selection of music
and write down the tempo and type of the piece.
In instructing it is best to use a piano for demon-
stration. This may be supplemented with a drum
to beat out the basic beats. The class could then
beat out this rhythm by clapping, or by beating
the table with their fingers. Various devices of
this type may be made use of until the pupils be-
come acquainted with the basic fundamentals un-
derlying the composition of selections of music.

The third lesson may be devoted to teaching
the fundamental dance steps, using music to sup-
plement the work. A number of simple, well
known selections should be used. The teacher then
sets a movement which is executed by the class.

This movement must be simple, preferably start-

ing with walking steps in different tempos. From
this the teacher can use running, hopping and

372 WORCESTER PLAYS DOLLS

For 100%

Recreation

TRY
WALKING

The Monthly Magazine for Whlkers

SHOWS YOU HOW AND
WHERE TO WALK

CONTAINS INTERESTING
AND AUTHORITATIVE
ARTICLES BY EXPERTS.
MAPS, PHOTOS, NEWS, ETC.

10c Per Copy $1.00 Per Year

Special Offer

Send 25 Cents for a Trial Subscrip-
tion of 4 Months.

W ALKING, Suite 1512
535 FIFTH Ave, N. Y. CITY

Subscription Representatives Wanted

skipping movements. Starting from exercises of
this type, dancing is simplified, and the degree of
difficulty can be increased with the ability of the
pupils.

The fundamentals of various types of dancing
are next in order. If sufficient time exists, a good
policy is to allow each pupil to do a few original
movements in time to the music. This should be
only a few bars in length and the movements
should beivery simple. In this way the pupil is
offered the opportunity to eXperience and create. .
It also gives the teacher the chance to check the
ability of the pupils. I

_—

Worcester Plays Dolls
(Continued from. page 354)

especially as she had lived many years in a trunk
in an old attic before she was discovered by the
original owner’s great grandchild who is now a
grandmother herself. She wore a quaint white
dress. blue sash and pantalettes, just as she was
found. Her feet were bare and each little toe was I
perfect. Her dimplecl arms looked as if they ‘
might be soft to touch. Her head was slightly
turned and tipped shyly downward. Her sweet
face framed by ringlets of real hair wore a wist-
ful half-smile. No modern doll in the show could _
compete with her appealing beauty, so she was
awarded the blue ribbon for being the prettiest
doll in the show. To compete for this award the
doll had to qualify as being the one which little
girls of all generations would most want to love

and cuddle.

Every precaution was taken to safeguard the
entries. I Guards were on duty in every corner of
the house during the time'the doors were open.
A watchman stayed in the building at night and
a special patrolman covered the grounds dUring
crowded hours. The collection was covered by I
insurance during the entire week. Glass cases

. protected the most valuable entries.

Some of the Results

The object of the festival was primarily for
publicity and the results were far beyond our ex-
pectations. A small admission fee was charged to
cover expenses which were heavy because of the P
necessity of taking so many precautions for pro-
tecting the dolls. Ten cents was charged for chil-
dren and twenty-five cents for adults. When all

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 373

expenses were paid we had two hundred dollars
left for needful equipment for the clubhouse. But
the amount of money could not compare in value
to the number of new friends we made and the
interest we created for our organization in the
community.

During the week before the festival we did ex-
tensive publicity with automobile stickers. trolley
car signs, hand painted posters, radio announce—
ments and newspaper publicity. We had expected
many children, but the enthusiastic audience that
gathered was more than half adults. It was in-
teresting to see men come inside the door, rather
sheepishly at first, but gathering courage as they
saw other male visitors. In the end most of them
came back with others they had encouraged to
come. One gentleman came back four times and
sent over fifty of his friends. It' took about two
hours for those really interested to inspect the
entire festival, and many came back for more.

Hundreds of people who had never heard of
the Girls' Club visited the clubhouse for the first
time. An attractive, compact report of the or-
ganization’s work, aims and needs was handed to
the visitors as they were leaving, with a cordial
invitation to come again. Especially interesting to
us all were the remarks of these visitors as they
left. After enthusiastic compliments upon the fes-
tival they invariably added: “I wish I’d brought
my doll.” Your own doll it seems remains quite
like your own children. and neighbors’ children
can never quite compete with it.

So it seemed the spirit of the audience was
summed by one tiny visitor of about six who
spent an entire morning wandering about admir-
ing the dolls. Curiously she had viewed the dolls
of all the nations, the dolls of long ago and the
dolls of the present mode. Literally surrounded
by dolls she stood in the auditorium and clasped
her hands and looked with shining eyes about
her. “Oh,” she said, “I wist I had ’a brought my

little ’ellow doll 1”

When the Wood Gods Call

(Continued from page 358)

ture fence which the bride couldn’t negotiate
with her new-fangled ankle-length skirt!
Most of our Bloomfield hikes have been with
small groups, as then there is less responsi-
bility and more chance for comradery. But we
have successfully attempted larger groups of
from fifteen to twenty—five hikers. The main
difficulty with the larger group is keeping

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

       

 
   

MAGAZINES

Leisure, September 1935
The Bounding Leather, by W'alter B. Grover

Be a Champion!
Games for Your Parties, by Alice Crowell Hoffman
A Hobby Show by Parents, by Ruby Mae Jordan

Parks and Recreation, September 1935
Green Mountain Parkway, by Laurie Davidson Cox

Parks and Recreation, August 1935
The Place of Recreation in Forest Management
Proposed National Park for Isle Royale, by Guy B.
Hunner ,
Value of Cleveland Metropolitan Park System

PAMPHLETS

Social Work As a Profession, by Esther Lucile Brown
Russell Sage Foundation. Price $.25

Toys You Can Make, by Angeline C. Anderson
Extension Circular 5519. Agricultural College Ex—
tension Service, University of Nebraska, Lincoln,

Nebraska

Annual Report of the Houston, Texas, Recreation De-
partment, 1934

Annual Report of the Westchester County, New York,
Recreation Commission, 1934

Recreation in the State Parks and State Forests of Penn-
sylvania, by William E. Montgomery

Department of Forests and Waters of Pennsylvania, -

Harrisburg, Pa.

Preliminary Statistical Report on Foreign-Born and Crime
National Commission on the Enrichment of Adult

Life of the National Education Association,
Washington, D. C.

A Survey of the Social Work IAgencies of Des Moines and
Polk County, Iowa

Directed by Community Chests and Councils, Inc.,
New York City

everyone at a safe distance from the speeding
traffic on the hike to and from our destination.
But once there we all celebrate with a hot—dog
roast, and build two or three campfires which
gives everyone a chance to roast and toast for
himself. The big advantage of larger numbers
comes at the recreation hour when we can or-
ganize baseball teams or play other games
which need many entrants.

Such clean, healthy fun is always in store
for any group we choose to take to our Bloom-
field cabin. In the course of the past few years
we have come across many girls eager to hit
the trail but not knowing where to go or what
to do when they get there. \Ve have taken
them along with us and introduced them to

.574 SOME POSSIBILITIES IN SCIENCE FOR LEISURE TIME

that finest and most worth—while sport——
hiking.

We always go with some purpose—to get a
list of the latest wild-flowers, to see what birds
are back, to collect frogs eggs, to know what
winter birds are with us, to collect dried things
for bouquets, to pick partridge berries and bit-
tersweet, or just to get out and empty our
lungs of gasoline and thrill all our senses with
the smell of wood smoke from a cabin chimney.

There is hardly a lake region'or range of
hills which we are not familiar with. The
wild—flowers, trees and birds in each region are
old acquaintances. Roads, shaded with close,
friendly birch, or by tall majestic elms, are the
byways we have taken to our hearts. The
Connecticut meadows and pastures marked off
with the typical stone walls of New England
have offeredlus their botanical wares.

Many an open hilltop has become our camp-
fire altar, as well as our bedbeneath the stars.
Often we find we must spend the night if
Mother Nature’s invitation is too tempting to
refuse. At such times we sleep anywhere from
hill-tops to river banks, or even in impromptu
places such as on top of a hay wagon as we
did not many weeks ago.

Connecticut lends itself to our every vaga-
bond mood. It offers us lakes for swimming,
woods for shade, wild-flowers for color, hills
for campfires, stone-walls for climbing, birds
for music, and dew on the cedars for morning
showers. In such things are found the satis-
faction which makes hiking a sport.

 

Some Possibilities in Science for the

Leisure Time of Adults
(Continued from page 363)

VII. Nature Schools and Camps .
I. Tours of the country in connection with
a college with classes and credits
2. Short-term or all-summer camps—various
course, field trips, etc.

3. Day camps
4. Institutes at colleges and universities

VIII. National Education Program
I. CCC camps; 2, SERA schools and teach-

ers; 3, Agriculture Extension work

IX. Churches
1. Hobby groups; 2, lectures and study

groups; 3, free colleges; 4, camps
X. Moving Pictures and Radio

Bulgaria Learns to Play
(Continued from page 366)

Foundation may be permitted to feel proud of
this achievement, as the idea of organizing chil—
dren’s clubs in Bulgaria originated with it and the
successful demonstration inspired the passage of
the new law.

Other Projects

,The latest development in the Koniovitsa pro-
gram is the encouragement of the people of the
district to start poultry and kitchen garden pro-
jects. In this work the playground children take
an active part. Assistance is given to Mr. Feld-
mahn in this work by the Foundation’s agricul-
tural staff, the director of which, Clayton E.
Whipple of Perry, N. Y., was recently appointed
adviser to the Bulgarian Ministry of Agriculture.
Last fall an exhibit of poultry was held on Konio-
vitsa playground, the children taking great pride
in showing the latest model of hencoop and the
finest breeds of fowl cared for in the family back
yard. They worked very hard to make a suitable
background for the exhibit, planting more than
5,000 bushes against the playground fence.

This is the story of a modest attempt of an
American educational agency to teach the Bul-
garians to play. The results to date are: 78 play-
grounds serving more than 30,000 children, where
five years ago not a playground existed; I40 play-
ground leaders trained, with more to follow; chil-
dren’s clubs appearing all over the country, where
two years ago there was not one; laws enacted
providing for the establishment of both clubs and
playgrounds; infant mortality, in a district show-
ing the worst record in the country, improved to
the point where it shows by far the best; 1,000
homes showing improved hygiene, sanitation, child
care and general well-being; a whole district blos-
soming with new cleanliness; little gardens pro-
ducing fresh green foods to supplement an inade-
quate diet; fine poultry and eggs to SUpplement
the family income, and trees and bushes to give
shade and beauty to an otherwise poverty-stricken
neighborhood.

The Near East Foundation’s policy of' economy
and integration has much to do with the success
of the work. Costs are kept sufiiciently low so
that emulation of its various projects is well
within the means of the people, once the desira-V
bility of a project is demonstrated and the tech-
nique is transmitted.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Helps For Club Program Makers

By Elizabeth G. Henry. American Library Association,
Chicago, Illinois. $.75.

STUDY OUTLINES are listed under 150 subjects in this
book, together with books and pamphlets on club
organization and procedure, and magazine articles and
leaflets on the making of club programs, club publicity,
and the club paper. Address of state agencies which
give help to women’s clubs are included, as well as a few

sample programs.

Ten Years of .Adult Education

By Morse Adams Cartwright. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.00.

N THIS book Mr. Cartwright deals mainly with the

events of the last ten years in the adult education
field, the problems met, the experiments tried, the results
achieved. He tells of the informal inception of the
movement in 1924, when the Carnegie Foundation
through its president, Frederick Keppel, took the initial
steps in a program of general education quite new to
the foundation field by assembling the first conference
on adult education. From this point Mr. Cartwright
traces the progress of the movement, develOping his ma-
terial under the general headings: Historical; Qualita-
tive; Trial and Error; Performance; Conclusion. Recog-
nized today as a vital force, adult education in the pres-
ent economic condition in which the world finds itself is
making an important contribution to the good life. “In-
tellectual pursuits can suffer no depression. The way is
opening to every man and woman in America to make
his intellectual future safe, enjoyable and abundant.”

Cleveland Group Work Agencies

Welfare Federation of Cleveland, 1900 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio. $1.00.

THIS REPORT of a five months’ study of the Cleveland

Group Work Agencies was made under the auspices
of the Welfare Federation and under the immediate di-
rection of a committee composed largely of agency board
members who had at their service the help of a consult-
ants’ committee, a practitioners’ committee and a general
consultant, Eugene T. Lies of the National Recreation
Association. The study was inspired by the agencies
themselves and received their hearty c00peration through-
out. The report will be of keen interest to group work
agencies.

Enjoy Your Museum

Esto Publishing Company, P. O. Box 46, Pasadena, Cal-
ifornia.

ACH MONTH additions are being made to these attrac-

tive and informative books which deal with various
phases of the arts. Among the May booklets are Illn-
mr'nated Manuscripts, Italian M aiolica, and Hand Woven
Textiles. Set I, including the 1933—1934 publications—
13 booklets in a slip—“box with index tabs—may now be
secured at the reduced price of $1.20. Set II, compris—

ing the 15 booklets issued during the current year, may
be had for $1.35.

Recipes For Wanderlust

Buflalo Museum of Science, Buffalo, New York. $.05.
U NDER THIS allluring title Professor William P. Alex-
ander, Assistant Curator of Education at the Buf-
falo Museum of Science, suggests in an attractively illus-
trated mimeographed statement “Forty Trips for You
and Your Car” which may be taken in the northern sec-
tion of New York State. He gives the routes to be fol-
lowed and tells enough of the natural beauty and points
of interest to be seen to make the descriptions not only
attractive but helpful in planning trips. This little pam-

phlet will be suggestive for any one planning a similar
directory.

Narratives of Achievement in
Community Planning

Bulletin No. 81. Community Chests and Councils, Inc.,
155 East 44th Street, New York. $1.00.

HIS BULLETIN contains a series of interesting narra-

tives of achievement in the fields of family welfare
and relief, child care, public health and care of the sick,
and leisure time activities, neighborhood and community
studies. In the leisure time field experiences are recorded
from Omaha, Nebraska; Madison, Wisconsin; Nash-
ville, Tennessee; Flint, Michigan; Richmond, Virginia;
Seattle, Washington, and Stamford, Connecticut. Recre-
ation workers will be particularly interested in the ac-
count of Madison’s community gardens and of the expe-
riment of the Council of Social Agencies and Community
Chest in Nashville in working out a plan for the pre-
vention of juvenile delinquency in eight areas of the
city; of the activities of the Recreation Council in Flint,
Michigan, and of the coordination of leisure time pro-
grams in Seattle.

375

376 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Researches in Parent Education 111.

Edited by George D. Stoddard, Ph.D. Iowa Studies
in Child Welfare. University Of,Iowa, Iowa City,
Iowa. Paper bound, $1.35; cloth, $1.70.

In this third volume Of parent education researches,
Dr. Ralph H. Ojemann and his associates have contrib-
uted not only tO parent education as such but to educa-
tional psychology as a scientific branch, throwing light
on important problems Of learning and teaching at almost
every age level. Part Two Offers an analysis Of hundreds
of generalizations in parent-child relationships and forms
a basis for a sound curriculum in parent education. Part
Three illustrates the feasibility of measuring parental at-
titudes, while in Part Six Mrs. Hedrick utilizes the new
tools in a practical teaching situation. The studies Of Dr.
Ackerley and Dr. Butler show what parents and high
school pupils need in order tO deepen their insight into
child development and behavior, and propose ways Of
meeting this need. -

The Modern Goliath.

By Milton Anderson. David Press, 1329 South AI-
varado Street, Los Angeles, California. $1.50.

Under this title Mr. Anderson presents a study Of talk-
ing pictures with a treatment of non-theatrical talking
pictures, especially talking pictures for schools and
churches. There are a few chapters on character educa-
tion and values.

Model Boats for Boys.

By C. W. Horst. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,_

Illinois. $.90.

Model sailboats and four different types Of power
boats are described in this book which teaches boat mak-
ing by going through the process. Special chapters cover
materials, tOOls, power plants for model boats, fittings,
and hardware. Of practical informational value to the
young boat maker are the nautical terms given at the end
Of the book.

Adult Interests.

By Edward L. Thorndike. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $3.25. '

This book by Dr. Thorndike and his co-workers on the
staff Of the Division of Psychology Of the Institute of
Educational Research Of Teachers College, Columbia
University, is a sequel tO the volume Adult Learning.
The book states the main results Of experiments carried
out from 1931 to 1934 on changes in the intensity Of in-
terests with age, on the possibility of modifying and im-
proving interests in adult years, and how tO do this ef—
fectively. Facts are presented concerning individual dif-
ferences Of interests among adults and differences be-
tween old and young.

The Design and Operation of Swimming Pools.

By J. H. Dorroh. University Of New Mexico Press.
Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Mr. Dorroh has given us in concise form the criteria
for judging the proper construction and operation of
swimming pools, a subject which is growing in importa-
ance with the increase Of swimming facilities. The pam-
phlet contains a plan showing the general features Of a
small swimming pool and an appendix in which is de-
scribed the method Of sterilization used for the swim-

ming pool at the University of New Mexico.

The Development of Boys’ Work in the United States.

By Walter L. Stone, Ph.D. Informal Education Ser-
vice, 2111 Natchez Trace, Nashville. $2.00.

The purpose Of this study is tO show the origins and
development Of 'boys’ work, the purpose, organization

and programs of boys’ work agencies, and tO give a sta-
tistical picture Of the spread Of boys’ work in terms Of
enrollment, participation, regional concentration, activity
programs, and composition of boy population. The study
is also designed tO indicate the modifications in the phi-
losopliy and techniques Of 'boys’ work in response tO the
results Of practical experience, scientific investigation,
and changing circumstances, and to outline some of the
problems and possible deve10pments Of boys’ work in the
future. A vast amount Of information is given regarding
activities and agencies.

Shelter Care and the Local Homeless Man:

By Alvin Roseman of the American Public Welfare
Association. Public Administration Service, Chi-
cago, Illinois. $.50.

In this pamphlet Mr. Roseman has given us in some
detail the story Of the experience Of the Cook County,
Illinois, Relief Administration in caring for the homeless
men Of Chicago, with brief descriptions Of shelters and
their programs and methods Of Operation in a number Of
other cities. Mr. Roseman describes in connection with
other departments the work Of the Special Activities De-
partment Of the Chicago Service Bureau for Men with
its provision for recreational and educational activities.
It is a very illuminating document for recreation workers
who are concerned with this problem.

Tho Box Book.

By Hazel F. Showalter. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $1.00.

Some 01 the fascinating things which can be made from
pasteboard boxes are described in this book, one of the
Work and Play Series issued by the Macmillan Com-
pany. The book includes the making Of candy boxes,
sewing kits, lantern shades, toys, automobiles, animals,
houses and furniture. There are also directions for the

making of camp or club room furniture from berry boxes
and other wooden boxes.

 

 

|

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEv, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice—President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HowARO S. BRAuanR, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRs. EOWARO W’. BIOOLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cit Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plaintield, . J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANOON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EOWARO E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCUROY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta. Me.

MRs. OGOEN L. MILLS, WOOdhury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WIINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOOOIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

