Do We Really Care?

0 THE MEN who enjoy music, drama, art. crafts, games———who enjoy life in all its forms

D really desire such life for all their fellow citizens? And desire it not for any ulterior purpose;

not for safety and quiet for themselves-——but that as men are men they may everywhere within

the limits of their capacities find the same springs of life as have the more privileged few? Do we

as a people really believe that men should be created with an equal opportunity for happy activity,’

adventure, romance—or is this part of our own Declaration of Independence one of the myths that
we discard?

Fl

Do we as a people really care? Is it important to us? Does living. a degree of gracious, beau-
tiful, creative, adventurous living for everyone really matter? Here is the center of the whole problem
of democracy. Health and housing and clothing are relatively unimportant except as there be vital
life within. If I am a believer in democracy do I carry my democracy into that which matters most,
the active life within which gives meaning to health, and houses and clothing?

At last the time has come in the age of plenty when out of the great reservoir of unemployed
youth, leaders may be drawn, trained, given experience, who shall establish a democracy of living,
of recreation, that in some respects is more important than political and induStrial democracy. -

Under present conditions the cost of establishing opportunity for recreational living, Oppor—
tunity for the pursuit of happiness for all is not prohibitive. The first essential is trained leadershlp.
trained “time.” And “time” is just that thing of which we now have the greatest surplus.

Two million youth coming up each and every year through with school and wanting work.

Six million youth in our country alone out of school and out of work now! Many of them for years
without work!

Why not select those who have capacity for recreation leadership. for leadership in abundant
living and give them the training that would be required so that the “time” which is now in part a
desert should become about the most valuable thing in all the world. Draw off eighty thousand of

the best of the young men and young women for recreation leadership and there are just so many less
left to compete for the industrial jobs to be filled.

The greatest c05t in helping to give opportunity for life to all is in leadership. Many are already
making their own musical instruments. The open air was probably the first theatre and again is

being much used for drama. Idle buildings, factories and stores can be used for the drama of the
people. School and church buildings we have hardly begun to use. For camping and tramping and
contact with nature submarginal farm land reclaimed for forests exists in abundance. Again there
can be athletic and game fields and swimming holes and streams cleared for ice skating in abundance.
Again as we can have time and opportunity to play with tools our cellars and attics take on new

value. Boys are already building gliders on the playgrounds in which they themselves fly. Arts and
crafts need n0t be so expensive if there be strong inner desire.

There is no queStion of palaces, estates. yachts. Happy human activity thrives under leader-
ship in the small cottage. The flowers in the little cottage garden are just as colorful and beautiful
as on the big estate and often are more lovingly tended. The fish bite just as well for the small bare-

foot boy as for anyone else——-if we only provide enough leadership to see that our streams are n0t
polluted and occasionally look to the restocking of our streams.

What is indispensable to making the United States a land of abundant living. as it is already
a land of super—abundance of material goods? What is fundamental? It is this—~—that they who
have been given opportunity to know how abundant life can be———want, really want Others to live
as they live themselves, to have just as much Opportunity for happy aCtivity as they themselves enjoy.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

NOVEMBER I935

 

377

 

"If one has no+hing else in life one has always beauty. One

can reach ou+ anywhere and fake if. One can spen a life-

+ime searching if ou+ and looking a+ H', in +hose lovely forms
of na+ure which are all aboul' and are never +0 be seen
+wice quil'e alike in all one's +l1ree score years and +en."

—Marjorie Barstow Greenbie.

 

- ‘ . _' . . _ . -_
Courtesy Dctartment of Forests and Water, Commonweofth of Pennsyfvanfa

378

 

A Congress Delegate Thinks It Over

National Recreation Congress
presents a variety of good
things.

First of all there was the pre-
siding genius of Dr. John Finley, that charming
mixture of serious challenge to our thinking and
whimsical fun with which he welcomes Us to a
seemingly uninterrupted kinship of inspiration
and friendliness. It makes us feel that it was only
I yesterday we were all‘ of us old acquaintances to-
l gether at the Twentieth Congress, and the day
r before that at the Nineteenth, and so back along
l the. days, rather than years, to that First National
Recreation Congress held in the same great city
that was our host at this one.

Then those too short music hours when all the
hundreds of us sang “Ciribiribin” or “Shortnin’
Bread” with that whole—souled enthusiasm cus-
tomary at such opportllnities, but also with ex-
traordinarily creditable harmonies. I still think
there is white magic in Mr. Zanzig’s leadership
and justification for that lovely and novel feel-
ing that we were being really good at it!

There was the helpful arrangement of the
thirty-three sessions into discussions and sum-
maries, so that the unaccustomed delegate, con-
fronting four or five sessions in each period, need
only select what was for him the cream of the
current program, and to it consign his full mental
and physical presence, knowing that soon, when a
general session came around, he would hear at
least the best of what he had missed.

There was the never-failing joy of meeting old
friends from the country’s four corners and the
happy opportunity to make new ones. Some of
these were young people who have only just be-
gun to work in recreation; some were rather re-
markable people of mature ex-
perience, turned voluntarily or
perforce from other work to
this leisure-time problem.
There are not many happier
experiences than to compare
notes with fellow workers,
hearing intimately their tales
of past actions and future

N RETROSPECT this Twenty-first
l I

By SIBYL BAKER
Supervisor of Playgrounds

Washington, D. C.

We wanted this year to' have an ap-
praisal of the Recreation Congress
from the point of view of a recrea-
tion worker qualified to speak from
long experience in attending the
Congresses. And so we called on
Miss Baker who for years has taken
an active part in the meetings.

hopes. Not to mention that at
these “bull sessions” along with the
pleasure of listening there goes the
collateral satisfaction of being
listened to!

And there was, as always, that hne staff of the
National Recreation Association, very modestly
in the background but smoothly managing the de-
tails of that crowded and rich week. Perhaps
some of Us wilted slightly; but the National Rec-
reation Association staff flowered as freshly on
Friday as on Monday.

Chicago’s Hospitality

We shall not soon forget the hospitality of Chi-
cago. Through Mayor Kelly and President Dun-
ham of the Chicago Park District, the city made
us welcome. Chairman V. K. Brown’s local com-
mittee had thought of everything, and an army
of recreation leaders was constantly on hand to
advise and direct. The state of Illinois greeted
us in the person of Governor Horner. We even
felt that the neighboring states were joined in a
pact of welcome to us; that all that great Middle
West was sharing with us its experience, making
us feel the largeness of its vision and the forward
urge of new endeavor.

The tours arranged by the Chicago committee
gave, in two afternoons and one evening, a com-
plete picture of the rich and varied recreational
opportunities of that vast city, her magnificent
parks and playgrOUnds. What we saw made it
easy to believe that Chicago is indeed as superla-
tive as our conductors delighted in announcing:
that she has-the “worlds’ largest” recreation cen-
ters, the “worlds’ longest”stretch of beach, more
tennis courts and golf links, more miles of parkl
way and bridle-paths than any city in the world!

In Chicago certainly recrea-
tion has “arrived.” The Chi-
cago Park District has for its
headquarters office the Ad-
ministration building of the
Century of Progress, near
Soldiers’ Field, with the Adler
Planetarium and the Field
Museum flanking it, the Art

‘ 379

380 A CONGRESS DELEGATE THINKS IT OVER

Institute near at hand. This splendid, modern
building is.in itself a material, tangible “New
Frontier for Recreation.” In its location at the
very core of Chicago’s cultural nerve centers
there is an intangible promise for the future no
recreation enthusiast can fail to feel.

The Sherman Hotel is excellently arranged for
a Recreation Congress. The generous space al-
lotted made possible the best display of exhibits
that it has been my good fortune to see. Com—
mercial displays were interesting and helpful.
Several good exhibits had been brought in from
distant cities. We had a glimpse of Berlin’s pre-
paration for the Olympics in 1936 and the chance
to study a model of the Recreation EXposition of
the San Francisco VVorld’s Fair in 1938. Demon-
strations going on constantly of an endless variety
of activities gave the mezzanine floor the air of a
circus, with a wealth of side—shows, putty mould—
ing, finger-painting, masks and quilts and baskets,
a myriad of novel ideas, with generous explana—
tions about methods and materials and costs.

Meetings and More Meetings!

I think this Twenty-first was the fullest Con-
gress we have yet had. Thirty—three meetings
(count them) discussed New Frontiers for Rec—
reation; in three general sessions the summariz—
ers presented the heart of these discussions, and
on four evenings we met to hear our thinking and
our practice challenged by dynamic speakers.

Discussion meetings began even on Monday,
which has hitherto been held sacred to the execu—
tives’ sessions, and we kept steadily at it until
Friday night. Summaries were thorough’ and,
under the stern control of Eugene Lies’ pipes and
trebles, brief.

The Congress theme, “New Frontiers for Rec-
reation,” permeated the program thoroughly.
Favorite t0pics of every Congress were polished
to a new lustre in the interchange of fresh ideas
submitted for discussion. New slants developed
in such fundamental fields as Activities for Girls
and Women; The Possibilities of Drama in Rec-
reation; Recreation and Health; Standards of
Training for Recreation Workers; Adult Educa-
tion and Recreation; Recreation in Industrial
Plants; Nature Activities and Gardening; A
Sound Arts and Crafts Program; Boards and
Commissions.

Many forces that are moulding new concepts of
life' in these shifting times have indeed establish—
‘ ed, and are constantly establishing, new frontiers
for recreation. As the days pass we must come

more and more to appreciate the truth of David

Coyle’s wise declaration to us that technical in-
vention is still merely at the beginning of its re-'
lease of mankind from drudgery. Proof that t ‘
Congress plans realized this beforehand w

found in the listing for discussion of such topi

as Problems of State Directors of Emergen

Recreation Programs; Youth on the New Recr

ation Frontier; Cooperative Planning for Educa
tion-Recreation Services; What Have the Eme
gency Agencies Contributed to the Recreati
Movement; Emergency Recreation Programs 1
Small Towns and Rural Districts; Recreation an
Housing.

I think that most of us, since we were 01
enough to read Fenimore Cooper (and perha
on occasion, if I may whisper it “Deadeye Dick”
have envied the frontiersman. You could not co
away from this Twenty-first Congress witho
feeling that there lies before us a frontier vas
than those which Natty Bumppo or Deadeye Di
roamed and that we face responsibilities great
than those of Kit Carson or Daniel Boone.

Scattered _through the week, dropping at a
and all times into the midst of general discussi
or social dance or evening session, there'was
amazing series of “flash demonstrations,”
which Chicago means the presentation of dan
or song or acrobatics, playlet or puppet-show
orchestra, whatever goes into the pattern of le
sure-time activities. Boys and girls, men a
women, from all the recreation agencies of t
city took part in these demonstrations and ga
us not only keen enjoyment but a vivid picture
the variety of elements that make up Chicago
recreation program.

There were the evenings of play, the good tal
at lunch and at dinner with the friend from t
other side of the continent, movies of Milwaukee
social centers and Germany’s Youth Hostels, a
our. National Parks. We remembered and miss
keenly the strong and gay spirit of Roy Smit
Wallace, his friendliness and his wisdom, but it
knew that still his soul marches on.

Each year our Congress planners give us
theme for the week’s consideration, and at eac
Recreation Congress, whether intentionally or no
somebody becomes the keynoter. This year’s key-
note was struck by David Coyle on our first eve-
ning. He gave it, repeatedly, in the vernacular,ll
but we remember it as translated by Dr. Finley;
into the quintessence of understatement: “This is
something of a country; we have not yet seen
what it will be.”

   
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

What the Recreation Congress Meant to Chicago

By V. K. BROWN

HE Recreation Congress of
T1935 in Chicago is now his-

tory, and a lingering mem-
ory of busy days and crowding
inspirations. Taking stock of
what it meant to our city has
proved a most interesting proc-
ess.

N 0 single individual could
attend all of the sessions. My personal attend-
ance was limited to two or three, and not even
in those was I able to be present throughout
the entire session. Other duties made it impos-
sible for me to give the attention which I
wished to give to the program. The result has
been that when I'inquire of local pepole who
were in attendance, asking them to summarize
the high lights of the gathering and what it
meant to the recreation service of our city, I
get in reply a bewildering series of individual
selections.

The graceful presiding of Dr. Finley im-
pressed some with the fact that earnest devo—
tion to a cause need not imperil it by robbing
us of a sense of humor. There seems agree-
ment that Edward Lindeman’s interpretation
of the new era in recreation will remain an in-

spiration for a long time to come, and that-

Mrs. Eugene Meyer’s challenging address was
thought-provoking, whether one agreed with
all of her views or not. The burning eloquence
of Richard Schirrmann’s address in German,
even to an audience unfamiliar with the lan-
guage in which he spoke, was interpreted by a
personality so fervent in its ideals of interna-
tional understanding that it promises to remain
an abiding influence in our attitude toward
life.

We saw new books, we talked over new
activities, or new applications of the old and
the traditional. We felt the mobilization of
community forces which is going forward
throughout the nation in national, state, county
and neighborhood life, impressing us with the
unavoidable conclusion that community, as a

We asked Mr. V. K. Brown of
the Chicago Park District' who
worked so tirelessly for the suc-
cess of the Recreation Congress.
to give us briefly some impres-
sions of the Congress from the
point of View of the city which
acted as host to the thousand
delegates in attendance.

word, is coming to have larger
meanings, and that ultimately
a world community may emerge
as an actual entity, as a result
of the broadening of life and
its sympathies reaching ulti-
mate goals.

Everyone in attendance finds
now that the sessions meant
something to him personally, but each selec-
tively picks out of the experience some partic—
ularly impressive idea or contact of special
meaning to himself. i

Isn’t that as it should be? We insist that
leisure pursuit of life in larger terms must be
intimately personal, as it must be free and
unregimented. Regimentation might possibly
be defined as some other person’s way of in—
troducing orderly organization into life, and
we prefer to do our own organizing as part of
the adventure of life. We feel that many of
the things which must be brought into orderly
relation to life as a total unit are so intimately
personal or local that each individual of us is
the only one who can, indeed, reduce the sum
total to any sort of order which at the same
time will be free from conflict. Out of each
experience we select some distinctive bit which
appeals particularly to us at the moment and
assemble these collected bits into patterns
which are all our own. Others might conceiv—
ably pass through the same experiences, but
they are not likely to select the same salient
elements to treasure as mementos of the ex-
periences, and certainly they can never assemble
these fragments in the same ultimate pattern or
mosaic.

Getting Ready for the Congress

We advertised the Congress among all the
clubs and organizations of the city. Members
of recreation committees, of parent-teacher
associations, community women’s clubs, local
community councils or improvement associa-
tions, were in attendance. Each such organiz‘a— 

381

582 WHAT THE RECREATION CONGRESS MEANT TO CHICAGO

tion represented at the sessions has its own
objectives and program of community service.
The Congress presented to them, as no local
sessions could possibly do, the tremendous
range of modern recreation. The Governor of
our State, and the Mayor of our city, the Pres-
ident of our park board, officials of our system
of education, representatives of every social
agency, of the administration of public and
private service organizations, were present,
thinking in terms of their own special func-
tions in our complex way of life, no doubt, but
thinking' in the” same direction—toward the
enrichment of life.

What was presented in the programs was
purposely held to practical and usable think-
ing, not much of entertainment, but mostly the
every-day problems and what to do about
them. We tried to follow on our tours and in
our exhibits the same
t r e n d manifested in
the formation of the
speaking program and
the session subject
matter, not the pre-

Delegates to the Congress were greatly impressed
by the beautiful arts and crafts exhibits. the worl< of
the Chicago Park centers and other municipal groups.
At one of the evening meetings an orchestra of
boys played selections on instruments they had made

sentation of special and elaborate pageantry,
not the development of elaborate spectacles,
but rather a demonstration of everyday service,
and of devices and activities contributing to
the service.

Possibly such demonstrations might be con—
sidered of no particular benefit to the city which
presented them. But in this, as always at pro—
fessional gatherings, the high lights consist in
part, at least, of the making of new contacts ‘
with other professional workers who shed ad—
ditional light on the subject in which one is
interested, or in the renewing of previously
established contacts, to get viewpoints cleared
to inquire as to what answer was found to
things discussed before, but not reduced to a
solution, and to report upon successes and
failures which have been recorded since last
the subject came up.

The Sherman Hotel
reports that the con-
vention was the hard-
est working group
they have ever enter-
(Continued on page 425)

 

. Summaries of
Discussion Group Meetings at the

Recreation Congress

More popular this year than ever were the eight minute reports
of the section meetings of the Recreation Congress which were
given every morning before the entire Congress in an effort to
make available to all the information presented at each meet-
ing. The summarizers performed with great success an exceed-
ingly difficult task, and their work was greatly appreciated.

Activities for Women and Girls

By SIBYL BAKER

Supervisor of Playgrounds
Washington, D. C.

tivities for women and girls. The first, on

“Non-Physical Activities,” was under the
chairmanship of Dorothy Enderis of Milwaukee
and the United States, and I need not say we had
a lively time.

Mrs. Ruth Ehlers, field leader for adult recre-
ation in Baltimore, opened the discussion by say-
ing that the non—physical activities challenge the
creative, the imaginative, the emotional powers.
She explained Baltimore’s unique system of
women’s clubs, with ages ranging from 25 to 80.
Their chief interests are handcraft, music, dra-
matics and travel tours. Music appreciation
classes were developed by an emergency worker
for whom music had been prescribed as an aid to
mental stability and who, because of special fit-
ness in personality and in musical training, has
had remarkable results. The Baltimore trips are
famous. In all sorts of ways the women raise the
funds to finance these excursions, and they go
places and see things that would be impossible for
them to afford individually. Several hundred may
go in a party, to Niagara Falls, to Atlantic City.
One group came to the Century of Progress
Exposition.

we were much interested in the achievement
certificates awarded in these clubs for music and
for dramatics. These are graded for first, second
and third years; a copy of the achievement tests

Two SESSIONS devoted to the discussion of ac-

will be mailed on application to Playground Ath-
letic League of Baltimore.

Miss Dorothea Nelson of the Chicago Park
District told of learning from personnel directors
of firms employing women that older women and
girls in industry were asking “Where to spend a
pleasant week-end,” “Where to take mother to
dinner on Sunday.” The outgrowth of the sug-
gestion was the organization of “Interest Tours,”
The Chicago Park District plans itineraries and
many, supplied with this information, go on their
own. There are, however, highly successful con-
ducted tours. Here in Chicago the preschool cen-
ters help the mothers not only by taking the chil-
dren off their hands for three or four hours a
day, but also through instruction in child care and
psychology. For those who do not want to follow
through an entire hike, sketching parties are or-
ganized in conjunction with hikes. Folk dancing
conducted by skilled leaders from Polish and other
national groups proves to be a joyous game for
older women. '

Most of this discussion was about women, old
and young, but Miss Josephine Blackstock of Oak
Park spoke of the girl-child, to whom the ap-
proach must be personal. She lives in a world of
fancy to which she has a right. We were urged to
remember that (I) the child does a thing for the
pleasure of the doing; (2) she has no conception
of time; (3) she needs continual muscular
activity.

A thorough discussion of charges brought out
that for children under I6 fees are rarely charged
except for tap dancing lessons; for business girls
and older women small fees are generally charged
for seecial instruction. In many places some

383

384 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

charge is necessary to meet expense of heat, light
and janitor service when school buildings are used
at night. In Pittsburgh the Board of Education
assumes this expense, but in other cities charges
are made such as $6. a night for a gymnasium, 10
cents for an individual entering the building. In
Milwaukee the Extension Department of the Pub-
lic Schools inaugurated last year, and found satis—
factory, a membership fee of 50 cents a person,
entitling the holder to enter any and all sports
throughout the year. Minneapolis asks $12. a
year from each team, and to assist those who can-
not pay their share enlists the cooperation of
women’s clubs, employers of women, the Police
W'oman’s Bureau, in establishing a fund to insure
that all may participate in the program of women’s
activities. '

When W'PA workers are assigned as leaders
the activity must be open to all, but as expenses
of heat, light and janitor service must be met,
ways are found of collecting service fees.

This conference ended with a wealth of sug-
gestions for utilizing waste material in hand-
crafts. It was Miss Enderis who defined rubbish
as “matter out of place,” and told of making ani—
mals out of old envelopes drawn from the waste
baskets of Milwaukee. Los Angeles has used cor-
rugated cardboard, old inner tubes, pine cones,
and has a bulletin which can be obtained on ap-
plication. Milwaukee uses chalk hat—blocks for
sculpture, old glass plates from the photographers,
scraps of paper from print shops, and works
lovely miracles with old Christmas cards. We
were urged to ask department stores to let us
have materials that would otherwise be thrown out
in cleaning up. Pittsburgh found its local clay
fields excellent for pottery, saved canteloupe seeds
for beads, used ends of orange crates. In Louis-
ville a twelve—play drama tournament was en-
tirely costumed and fitted with Indian tom—toms,
tin can jewelry and macaroni beads, with no cost
except for paints. Bamboo poles from rug com-
panies serve for jumping poles or for model air—
craft. The crown was the vase made by scraping
the marrow out of ai bone and carving and paint—
ing it with a novel design.

Our conference on “Physical Activties for
Women and Girls” was presided over by Miss
Helen Coops of the University of Cincinnati.
This was a round table discussion, free for all.
There was no set speech. A question was thrown
out to the lions who instantly proceeded to tear it
to pieces!

We began with: “How can interest be shifted
from boys’ rules to girls’ in basketball?” We de— ,
cided that girls’ basketball is a better and a faster
game than boys. Firm leadership, women as
coaches and approved officials, and good demon-
strations of well-played games were offered as
solutions.

What activities do different age groups want?
Mrs. Dietz, of Minneapolis, urged that girls be
taught team play and trained in competitive games,
but that they also learn other games which can
be played in groups of two, three and .four.
Tennis, golf, bowling, swimming, badminton, were
suggested. Billiards is growing in popularity for
women because it can be played with one, two or
three people, requires no special costume, and can
be played with men. Somebody admitted that
women like to play games with men!

Miss Jessie Garrison of Alabama emphasized
the trend toward womanly interests, and urged
that leaders be trained in biology, physiology, and
sociology. In offering activities to women the
leaders should first make a careful survey of each
individual’s capacity, adapt the activity to the
ability and needs of the individual, and inspire
confidence in leadership.

A brave man asked if women are so differently
constituted that they cannot play such games as
hOckey and basketball. Miss Blanche Trilling of
the University of W’isconsin here shed some light
on the subject. we are, she said, changing the
opinions we held twenty, ten, or five years ago.
A psychiatrist is needed to distinguish between
the masculine and the feminine. Both hockey and
basketball are good games; the physical capacity
of the individual determines her fitness to play.
It is equally important, however, to test the phy-
sical capacity of boys for football or for track.

Our chairman summed up this discussion with
the statement “It is important that women be
sports-educated and that the strenuous games be
balanced with carry—over activities.”

The question of women coaches and officials
roused the usual storm. Mr. R: S. Marshall of
Birmingham declared that 90% of our difficul—
ties are caused by men coaches and officials, and
earned applause. A number of suggestions were
offered to solve the problem of training enough
women as coaches and officials to serve our needs
in. the rapidly increasing interest in women’s
games. Senior students or members of the physi-
cal education staff of a local university may be
used; players from experienced teams can offici—

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 385

ate for practice games, applicants taking the train—
ing course to qualify for the national officials rat-
ing. Baltimore has two types of basketball play:
expert, when the game is played for high excel-
lence, and neighborhood or settlement games
played for the fun of it, for the social values. The
expert players coach and officiate for the neigh-
borhood groups. In Birmingham they asked the
state university to send instructors to train of-
ficials for national ratings, and now they put on
such a training course every six months.

Each city and state, Miss May Fogg of Win—
netka, Illinois, stated, should have its board of
rating officials for girls’ sports. Information on
procedure for basketball ratings can be obtained
from the National Committee on VVomen’s Bas—
ketball.

’With regard to men coaches Miss Mildred
Didrikson said that men can demonstrate; few
women can. To this Miss Trilling pointed out
that many of our greatest coaches cannot play the
game they teach.

We came to the conclusion that many of our
problems are solved by leadership. How to con—
trol spectators, how to redirect interest to dif-
ferent games, how to combat exploitation of girls
in commercial and industrial leagues-“these mat-
ters can be solved by a hrm leadership which ac-
cepts the definite standards set up for women’s
ac_ivities and now universally recognized. If we
find standards threatened, conference with re—
sponsible individuals and the cooperation of
women’s organizations and of employers of
women will clarify the situation.

The final note of this session was an appeal to
plan for the
older woman.
Baltimore’s
older women’s
tournaments in
clock-golf, bean
bags, shuffle-
b o a r d were
found valuable
for the “ath—
letically illiter—
ate.” F E R A
assistance has
made vast quan-
tities of play
equipment for
simple games.
At the close we

had a vision of many women pushed aside by life
into the loneliness and hard work of middle age,
now emerging into the gaiety and alertness of
games, learning to enjoy and to make music,
shedding the years, coming alive. being re-created.

Exploring the Possibilities of Drama

By GARRETT H. LEVERTON
Director
Northwestern University Theatre

HE SESSION in Drama made a number of
T specific recommendations for the betterment

of dramatic work. These recommendations
were practical and workable rather than the vague
“palaver” that too frequently characterizes the
proceedings of a convention. The suggestions to-
ward a definite procedure in drama were prima-
rily the contribution of the chairman, Professor
Edward Mabie of the University of Iowa. Mr.
Mabie conducted the meeting not only from a
functional point of view in dramatic activity but
also from a more far—sighted objective—that of a
National Theater in which community and recre-
ation associations could be a part, either with or
without the assistance of the Federal government
in its new project designed to put professional
theater people back to work and thereby provide
legitimate theater to the whole country rather than
just to Broadway.

Briefly, Mr. Mabie’s points were:

I. That any important National Theater could
never materialize by an act of Congress. It can
come only as a result of an interest and attitude
on the part of the people. This desired attitude

 

386 .S'UIl/III’IARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

must include a realization that the theater is an
art and must have trained workers. The day is
past when mere interest in the theater constitutes
sufficient training for leadership. Highly trained
leaders must be provided for this activity.

2. That a false economy in dramatic produc—
tion has been defeating the purpose of the work.
Poor plays, non-royalty plays and cut royalties all
contribute toward the destruction of the aim of
dramatic work which is to stimulate the imagina-
tion. Inferior plays offer no challenge to the
imagination in costume design, scenery design,
acting and the other phases of the theater.

3. That play selection committees are guilty of
“Yes—Yes—ing” Broadway, and only Broadway
successes are considered or wanted. Thus no en-
couragement or attention is given to the develop—
ment of local playing or to participation in ex-
perimental theater.

4. That inadequate direction produces a shoddy
performance. This gave rise to a debate as to
whether a dramatic program shouId be a finished
production or mass production.

Opinion was divided. The delegate from Bir-
mingham believes in the policy of “Get ’em in it.”
The delegate from York, Pennsylvania, seems in—
terested in producing the best plays possible. The
delegate from Rock Island, Illinois, reported the
solving of problems incident to the judging of
dramatic contests. Such affairs are usually beset
by dissatisfaction with the decision. Rock Island’s
solution lay in securing University judges who
explained not only their decision but also the dif-
ficulties involved in making such decisions.

One of the most valuable contributions was
made by the delegate from Birmingham in his
report of and recommendation of decisionless
contests. It is recommended that since a prize
usually becomes the primary objective, contests
without winners or awards be conducted and thus
keep the focus of the contest where it belongs—
on the benefits to be achieved from the work it—
self._ The delegate from Birmingham also made
some other recommendations:

I. That as small a fee as possible be charged
for participation in dramatic activities of anv
kind. ' '

2. That a director be not expected to be 'an
artist and business man both. That a good busi-
ness manager be provided as the director’s
assistant.

3. That Birmingham is favorably inclined to-
ward organization of a circuit for its plays so

that the actors may have the advantage of play—
ing in different neighborhoods and before dif—
ferent audiences.

The delegate from York, Pennsylvania, asks a
pertinent question—“Are children to go without
drama because there are not sufficiently trained
directors necessary to do a good job ?f’ She is not
convinced that a bad production is better than
none. No decision was reached.

Finally it was pointed out that draniatics has too
long been a means to an end rather than an end
in itself; that instead of being used as a means
for raising money, as a means for promoting in-
terest in health, church, National Girl Scout Week
and National Eat An Apple Week, drama be con-
sidered as an end in itself. It was urged that this
activity be participated in for the purpose of de-
veloping appreciation of the theater; of dramatic
literature; of the art of dramatic interpretation
and acting; of the development of refined posture
and carriage and of the achievement of general
poise and the all too infrequent ability to speak
the native language in a cultured and refined
manner.

t Music in the New Recreation Era
By A. D. ZANzIG

National Recreation Association

IIE PRESENT conditions for the development
Tof amateur musical activities are especially

challenging and promising. Interest in music
for its values in the everyday life of people in
recreation centers, adult education centers, set-
tlements and other social agencies, at least among
officials of these agencies, is greater than it has
ever been. In Farm Bureaus, Homemakers’ Clubs,
4—H Clubs and other groups of rural people there
has been an even larger increase in musical
interest.

Thousands of the youth graduated from high
schools and colleges have learned in those insti—
tutions to sing or play fine music very well, and
they need adequate opportunities to continue in
this current of fine, red—blooded and self-respect—
ing life outside the schools. The enormous num-
ber of good free radio and stage concerts are a
great boon to some people, but they have hardly
commenced to be what they might be for millions
more of people, if those people could find really
effective ways of developing their innate powers
of appreciation. There is a crying need for good ‘
leadership in appreciative listening as in all other

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 387

phases of musical activity. The possibilities are
unprecedently great. And just at this time the
government is ready to give us, or has already
been giving us the services of-large numbers of
unemployed musicians.

It is no wonder, therefore, that our first ques-
tion had to do with what these musicians are
likely to be able to do. We learned that in a few
cities they have already been employed in leading
new adult choruses and orchestras, children’s
choruses and rhythm bands, operetta groups, danc-
ing groups and in giving group instruction in
singing, in playing orchestral instruments, piano,
harmony and composition and music appreciation.
Chicago, Cincinnati, Boston, New York and Los
Angeles have made especially notable strides
through emergency em-
ployment of musicians.
These are very encourag—
ing signs.

Our next question had
to do with criteria for de-
termining the value of any
musical activity. The most
common criterion -—- the
size of attendance (usual-
ly the aggregate attend-
ance for a year is given)
—-was belittled in favor of
persistence of attendance
and especially in favor of
the scope of experience
and enjoyment of each in-
dividual attending. The degree of happiness and
inspiration of a small home-size group singing or
playing fine music with the devotion of real play,
however simple or crude their performance, can
balance the mere pleasure of a thousand dabblers
in sweet, “pretty—pretty” or otherwise inferior
music.

Mr. Harry Glore, out of his experience in or-
ganizing and managing several choruses and Cr-
chestras for the Public Recreation Commission of

Cincinnati, reported that the only way to keep ~

such a musical activity going is through provid-
ing for a striving for excellence in them. The
universal interest in enlarging one’s experience,
in “improving one’s game,” as golfers say, must
be appealed to in any musical activity. But there
are at least two distinctive paths of improvement
or growth in music. One can grow through get-
ting into music that reaches more deeply or widely
into life; in other words by getting into a better,

"Let me introduce to you my adopted slogan:
IBe a performer and not merely a listener.I
This is not a protest against the radio or any
mechanical aids to musical enioyment or music
appreciation. It is a protest against any use
of the radio or phonograph that in any way
limits or discourages individuals from singing
or playing themselvesl no matter how badly.
. so long as they do not attempt to compel
others to listen to them. . . . We need a re- ‘
turn to the ordinary singing in the home; the
ordinary playing in the small social group:
the ordinary homespun attempts at perform-
ance of music loved for its melody and emo-
tional content."—Dr. Hamilton C. Mac-
dougall in The Diapason, May I, I935.

more challenging and more satisfying game. And
one can grow in enjoyment and grasp of the music
by improving the quality of his performance. How
this growth can be genuinely and naturally
brought about led us to an all too brief and not
very revealing discussion of attitudes and methods
of leadership.

Mrs. Frances E. Clark’s account of her pio-
neering efforts in Milwaukee many years ago to
develop music appreciation among the children
there must have stirred in all of us a new or en—
hanced vision of what might be done to make
more of the great unrealized wealth of fine,
strengthening an expanding music now easily
available to almost everyone. Every recreation
center in which music can be presented under
suitable conditions (th e
new phonograph attach-
ments are inexpensive).
should have a music guide,
as every park should have
a nature guide, whose love
and understanding of
music and of pe0ple have
taught him how to guide
small exploring parties into
the happiest but often hid-
den groves, meadows, hill-
sides and mountain tops of
music. Mrs. Clark told us
also of the remarkable use
of the phonograph in
_ teaching songs to thou-
sands of rural children in several states. Inex-
pensive recordings are available of excellent sing-
ing of songs well suited to playground groups and
to groups of adults also. Mrs. Clark pleaded for
cooperation between school leaders and recreation
leaders.

Mr. Herman Smith, the president of the Music
Educators National Conference, presented the
great need for cooperation of recreation ohicials
with school music teachers in providing Oppor-
tunities for graduates of high school musical
groups to sing and play such substantial music as
they have come to love in school. TheSe young
people cannot get from mediocre music or per-
formance any more values than a good high school
swimmer can get from paddling in the old swim-
ming hole. They have attained again and again or
are on their way to attaining that most blessed of
all recreational states of being; when one is a true
amateur possessed of professional skill that. is

388 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

still growing. We have got to find adequate lead—
ership for these young people. We should look
for that leadership among the young people them-
selves as well as among adult musicians. A very
promising example of this developing of leader—
Ship. was described by Mr. Smith. In his home
city, Milwaukee, emergency funds have been used
to employ people to copy and mimeograph fine
non—copyright music which ,is especially well suit—
ed to small singing and playing groups. This
music is in circulation at the public library and is
being used by youth and adults who are them-
selves organizing and leading small groups that
carry on their music-making as a great indoor
sport. .

But no way out or back into musical sports—
manship is more promising than the one present—
ed by Mr. Andrew Wendelin of Chicago, con—
ductor of the Lutheran Symphony Orchestra. Mr.
W endelin has gathered a large library of fine or—
chestral music suited to church use, and he pro—
poses that every church be regarded as a most suit—
able place for formation of an orchestra which will
play such music and not merely marches and
hymns on which many a Sunday School orchestra
has musically starved to death. The church has
the building, the rehearsal room, _usually a mu-
sician on its staff, and many occasions for a kind
of public performance which is inspiring, and yet
has not the dangers of professionalism which sur-
round the regular concert giving amateur groups.
The recreation leader or the worker in some social
agency may be just the person needed to intro-
duce this idea to the clergy and church musicians
in a community.

Adult Education and the Recreation Movement
Working Together

By ELIZABETH HALSEY

Director, Department of Physical Education for FVomen
University of I owo
Iowa City

HE DISCUSSION GROUP on Adult Education and

Recreation was opened by the chairman, Mr.

T. H. Nelson of the Central Y.M.C.A. Col-
lege, Chicago, Illinois. Mr. Nelson brought out the
idea that the form or structure of an activity does
not determine whether it is work or play. It does
not even determine whether it is reward or pun—
ishment, nor can one find the aims and outcomes
by the mere activity.

The discussion was opened by Mr. Fred Moore,
Executive Director of Adult Education Council.
Chicago, 111. Mr. Moore’s first point was that
there is no controversy between adult education
and recreation, that it is not a case of either or
but both and. Adult education workers do not
practice recreation enough, they are perhaps too
serious, and they do not get enough fun into their
programs. On the other hand, recreation special-
ists may not realize the maximum content of the
adult education program. The trend, he believes,
is toward combining the best of both movements.

From a recent trip .to Europe, Mr. Moore
brought back the observation that a larger propor«
tion of adults in most European countries than in
America have real adult education; that is, can
share in the collective life of the community or
nation on a high level. He spoke of the German
movement of strength through joy, of the Italian
youth hostels which are visited by groups of hik-
ers and which furnish organized programs of
drama, music and discussion groups. In Den—
mark, the well-known folk high schools empha-
size pageantry and folk dancing as a dynamic part
of the adult education program.

In general, adult education must realize that
along with high intellectual endeavors there
should be given the opportunity for real recrea-
tion. It is important, on the other hand, that rec-
reation workers understand first, that adult edu-
cation is not merely for the underprivileged and
for the foreign born; second, that the purpose of
adult education is not merely vocational educa-
tion in order to improve vocational status, and
third, that the historic importance, in fact the
critical nature of world conditions today, demand
the intelligent understanding of all people. There-
fore, it is necessary that adult education provide
some opportunity by which individuals may think
through problems of the collective life, and if the
adult education program should deal merely with
such cultural activities as the fine arts and hob-
bies it would be failing seriously to awaken the

-individual to his share in the problems of society.

Accordingly, not only forums and meetings are
necessary, but sustained study, such as is carried
on by the British Workers Education Movement
which holds classes for working people who de-
vote one night a week, twenty-four weeks in the
year for three years, to the study of a single t0pic.
The thousands of British workers who have had
this experience of intellectual growth, act as a
leaven throughout the country. Their influence

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 389

was a large factor in placing 11% million names
on the recent peace declaration.

Mr. Moore feels that recreation leaders have an
excellent opportunity to interest large numbers of
adults in the community because of their wide
contacts and because most people are attracted by
recreation. He has been very much impressed by
the caliber of the personnel of the leaders in the
recreation movement, and he feels there is a great
need of close association between the leaders in
recreation and in adult education. He thinks that
the outcome of combined programs can be not
merely adjusted, happy individuals, but social phi-
losophers and virile thinkers who will be instru-
mental in saving the institutions and ideals which
are a part of all that America has stood for.

The next speaker, Mr. Dana Caulkins, Super-
intendent of Recreation in Westchester County,
N. Y., gave practical illustrations from the West—
chester situation, demonstrating the cooperation
of the adult education and recreation administra-
tors. He told of a worker who, in attempting to
make a clear-cut differentiation between the two
programs, suggested that everything “above the
neck” be called adult adulation, and everything
“below the neck” recreation! Mr. Caulkins re—
ported progress in the education of this gentle-
man! The recreation program in Westchester
County has been called a leisure-time program.
The phrase “education for the wise use of leisure
time” also has been used. There has been, there-
fore, a good deal of demand for educational ac-
tivities which were not consciously so planned;
for instance—choral societies have progressed
from informal evenings of singing to a sustained
year’s program working toward public perform-
ance at the Westchester Music Festival. Simi-
larly, dramatic clubs, beginning with small local
performances have worked toward conferences
on the drama bringing in leaders in the field of
dramatic art who have held definitely educational
programs. The VVestchester workshop issues a
little folder which lists on its cover the follow-
ing activities: Crafts - Music - Literature — Drama
- Printing — Sculpture - Design. University courses
- children’s classes - conversation groups. Most
of the classes are conducted very informally, but
attendance is persistent as is shown by the fact
that last year 2,300 different individuals gave a
record of 95,000 attendances. The classes have
been set up in response to the demand ‘of the
community and no attempt has been made to de-
limit the nature of class work.

The Recreation Commission has closely co-
operated with the State Department of Educa-'
tion in its emergency program. The county repre—
sentative of the State Department had his offices
in the building of the Recreation Commission and
by tacit agreement this officer and Mr. Caulkins
have referred to each other individuals coming in
with requests for new classes, so that there has
been no conflict and no duplication.

The next speaker, Miss Dorothy Enderis of
Milwaukee, brought out very clearly that it is im-
possible to make artilicial distinctions between
recreation and adult education. The proposal to
make an administrative distinction which would
give to adult education reSponsibility for all ac-
tivities, except those which were physical in
nature in the case of individuals over I7, and
give to the recreation department responsibility
for physical activities for adults and all activities
for persons under 17, simply would not work.
Miss Enderis illustrated its absurdity by an in-
cident from the experience of a Milwaukee com-
munity center. Four boys who were playing bil-
liards were suddenly seized with the desire for.
some barber shop harmony. The billiard room
attendant encouraged them and when the super-
visor dropped in, he was told about the line har—
mony that these boys produced. He, in turn, said,
“What about a glee club?” Naturally, the de-
velopment of a glee club came about which met
every week, and went on from singing popular
music to something more satisfying. “Suppose,”
said Miss Enderis, “that the supervisor had to say,
‘now, boys, that is very line but all music is done
by. adult education people and if you want a glee
club you will have to go down to their headquar—
ters.’ ” Suppose the boys persisted, arrived at the
adult education headquarters and started to reg—
ister. The first three, being over I7, would be ac-
cepted, but the last boy, a 16—year-old would be
sent back to the recreation department!

Miss Enderis said that the difference between
the two programs exists in motivation. An ac—
tivity which is done for the fun of it, rather than
for a conscious ultimate end, is recreation. The
study of Shakespeare, by a group of housewives
who come together once a week, read and discuss
the plays because they want to, because they en-
joy every .minute of the activity, is recreation.
The study of Shakespeare by a person working
for an advanced degree, who is intent on credits.
working on papers and getting ready fior examina-
tions is not recreation.

390° SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

On the-‘ other hand, .recreation
is not merely giving people amuse-
ment in their leisure hours. Rec-
reation leaders are not amuse-
ment vendors. The old principle
of going from the known to un-
known must be used to widen
horizons. In the last analysis,
there is no difference in the aims of the leaders
of recreation and adult education.

The meeting was then thrown open to discus-
sion and the questiOn was raised as to how to
reach that great' mass in any community which is
not responsive to the ordinary means of getting
people interested in neighborhood centers either
in recreation or adult education prOgrams. Most
of the group felt that it was a matter of leader-
ship, but other devices were mentioned such as
running an entertainment in a community center
at the same time night school was going on. Those
attracted by the vaudeville would find out some-
thing about the rest of the program.

The chairman concluded the session with the
statement that we were not willing to admit a
difference in ,aims between adult education and
recreation. Both are concerned with eXperiences
which lead to the abundant life of the individual.
He did, however, make this distinction. When a
person does something which is self-expressive,
and gets joy and satisfaction out of it, it is recre-
ational ; when he carries that activity far enough
to improve his control, it becomes educational.

Enlarging Opportunities for Friendliness Through
Social Recreation

By FLOYD V. MERRIMAN

State Supervisor of Recreatiovz
Emergency Relief Administration, Indianapolis, Indiana

HIS DIVISION was opened by Chairman E. O.

Harbin with the following definition: “Social

recreation is any type of recreational activity
that helps folks enjoy fellowship one with an-
other.”

After it had been pointed out that all animals
travel and work in groups, the section proceeded
to discuss various activities that would aid all peo-
ple to enjoy such a variety of interests that would
cause us to ,more readily adjust ourselves to any
situation.

The following ideas were presented to the group

as things to do. Some of these ideas need only to
'\

"it has been a mistake to seg-
regate the sexes in activity.
They must be brought together.
for it is'a most human impulse
and a most wholesome relation-
ship. However. we must never
fail to recognize sex differ-
ences." ---Dr. A. D. Browne.

be mentioned, while others may
need a word of explanation.

1. Training of leaders from
churches, societies, lodges, etc.,
being careful to give mimeo-
graphed materials to participants
at close of each session.

2. Progressive game parties-—
breaking up the crowd into small units.

3. Build parties around central theme with cos-
tumes to suit occasion, thus capitalizing the spirit
of play found so abundant at Hallowe’en when
masks and costumes make all of us carefree and
in the proper mental attitude for the program.

4. Do not try to replace the social dance en-
tirely but try to introduce other activities and
prove to the high school and pollege age indi-
vidual, commonly known as the sophisticated of
the sophisticated, that there is real fun in many
other activities.

5. It was pointed out that since social dancing
is not social but isolated “atomic bodies in pairs,”

. id is wise to parallel the dance with a game room

to which individuals may go at any time and en-
joy a variety of interests.

6. The “beerless beer” garden movement in De-
troit was described. At these gardens they have
music, dancing, floor shows. Evidently those de-
scribing the plan knew all about our modern
tavern. They have box hockey, heather ball, folk
dancing, table games, etc. At the bar they sell
sodas, ice cream, ginger ale, and all soft drinks.

7. Reading—such books as “Old Man Adam
and His Children” by Bradford, or Bellamy’s
“Looking Backward” provide excellent materials
for dramatization and discussion and provide ex-
cellent vehicles for us to use to permit an un-
shackled play of our imagination.

8. It was suggested that perhaps various or-
ganizations and institutions had so regimented
our young folks that a sort of an “open house”
idea would correct this fault. Milwaukee has
successfully provided such places under the super-
vision of a steering committee, and provision is

made for all sorts of table games and varied
activities.

9. Dramatic stunts in which a group has a situ-
ation presented and appropriate dialogue is im-
provised, or set stunts in which the actors are
picked from audience with no rehearsal. A note
of warning was sounded against the “goat stunt”
unless a larger group could be made the goat,

 

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 391

and even then they were not the most desirable
types of activities.

IO. Another suggestion that seemed to have
the unanimous approval of the entire group—at
least by the enthusiasm with which it was receiv-
ed—-was that the “staff” should occasionally take
time to play also. They were not willing, how-
ever, to place any limitations upon the staff’s
activity.

11. Picnics—not anti—social sort of pairing off
affairs, but programs that bring all into-the fes-
tivities of the occasion.

12. Instances were described of successful “old
time dancing” groups. As many as twenty to
twenty-five old time dances may be used in a
single group.

13. Folk dancing groups were also suggested.
This has been most successfully used in rural
groups where dancing was taboo.

14. For older groups puzzles, anagrams, card
tricks, coin stunts, string stunts, as well as mental
twisters, were suggeted.

15. Recitals were mentioned in which a group
assembles at the particular site of some historical
event and all of the literature, music or art writ-
ten concerning that particular place are used to
form the program. '

16. It was suggested that a good leader would
so direct the group that while the program was
well organized it would appear as .spontaneous to
the group involved.

17. Music was advocated in the form of con-
cert evenings in which no announcements were
made but with one song fading into another with
apprOpriate lighting and participation:

18. One problem that'concerns industrial rec-
reation was that situation- which arises from try-
ing to plan an evening for the office force 75 to
80 per cent college graduates and the workers of
a much lower level educationally. After consid-
erable discussion it was decided that one solution
would be a committee composed of representa-
tives of both groups to be given the responsibility
of planning the program. i

19. Annual costume musicals and more Use of
dramatical and musical activities were being sug-

gram, and his various bits of philosophy inter-
spersed as they were throughout the -entire hour,
made our particular division meeting a very in-

structive and delightful affair.

Recreation and Public Housing Developments

By COLEMAN WOODBURY
Director
National Association of Housing Officials

cussion to three main topics: (1) recreational

equipment of public housing developments
already constructed or under way; (2) how to
get the most out of these recreational and com-
munity facilities; and (3) recreational and com-
munity standards for public housing develop-
ments.

A representative of the Housing Division of
PWA reported the following typical equipment
for the Division’s projects:

One small play yard, say forty by sixty feet,
will be provided for each group of apartments of
from thirty to sixty families. These play yards
will be for pre-school children and will be located
so that they can be readily seen by the parents.
Equipment such as sand-boxes, low swings, and
small slides will usually be provided. These areas
may not be provided in some row housing de-
ve10pments, which will have play space immedi—
ately adjacent to each house.

Playgrounds for school children and young
adults will be allocated roughly in the proportion
of twenty-five square feet per tenant child. The
areas will vary from one-half to one acre. Lead-
ership will be provided these areas either through
the municipal recreati0n agency, by the school au-
thorities, or, if necessary, by volunteer workers-
or by persons paid'from the inCome of the project.

Basement space will be provided in each group
of apartments for quiet games and for play in in—
clement weather. Few large community buildings
will be erected at the outset. Space is being left
in most projects for such buildings if they become
feasible in the future. Rooms for small meetings
up to fifty persons will be provided in the ratio
of one meeting place per 150 apartments. The
meeting room will be approximately equal in size
to a four-room apartment, and will have facilities
for serving light refreshments. Basement space
for work shops will be provided. They will usual-
ly be left unfinished and unequipped.

All recreational activities will be under the gen-
eral supervision and guidance of a trained mana-
ger who will have knowledge of and be sympa—
thetic toward organized recreational activities.

In the use of the facilities provided it was
agreed that one of the chief problems arose from

THE CHAIRMAN of the meeting directed dis-

392 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

the fact that large numbers of families would
come to the new developments at one time, and
that the recreational activities within the tenant
group itself would have to start practically from
scratch. Tenants’ associations organized with the
encouragement of the management were advocated.

It was also agreed that the aim of the manage-
ment should be to discover and strengthen lead-
ership among the residents. One speaker thought
that the person in charge of community activities
at the beginning should consider himself a “recre-
ation consultant” to tenant groups, to WPA or
part-time workers, and to established recreational
agencies operating in the neighborhood. She fur-
ther recommended that in a housing development
of fourteen hundred families or so, the “recre-
ation consultant” eventually should have the full-
time assistance of a trained man and a trained
woman and the services of a nursery school expert.

The manager of a successful limited-dividend
development said that his early troubles came
from not hnding the tenants’ interests. The first
efforts at encouraging informal parties were a-
failure, but later attempts with meetings of par-
ents and meetings of a men’s forum were very
successful. Tenant committees on athletics to stir
up rivalries and to schedule the use of larger play
spaces for high school and adult games have also
been successful.

The need for managers and assistant managers
familiar with the fundamentals and problems of
recreation was not disputed. In a large develop-
ment which might have one or more recreation
workers on its staff, this train—
ing is essential to the intelli-
gent handling of the manage-
ment staff. It is probably even
more desirable for the mana-
ger of small projects, who will
have to rely even more upon
friendly and cooperative rela-
tions with those in charge of
publicly-supported recreation.
It was also suggested that some
of the ABC’s of housing
should be included in the train-
ing of recreational workers.

“Recreational and Commu—
nity Standards for Public
Housing Developments.” The
discussion of the question ran
rather more to generalizations
of policy rather than to definite

 

standards. It seemed unanimously agreed that the
management of public housing projects should try
to develop and supplement existing recreational
facilities rather than to provide substitutes for
them. This would avoid too strong and too nar-
row loyalties to very small groups. So strong was
the feeling in support of this generalization that no
one mentioned the miserable inadequacy of recre—
ation facilities in many of the general areas in
which future housing developments will have to
be located nor the hnaucial and other obstacles to
improving these facilities markedly.

A warning was given against minimizing the
importance of adult recreation in the housing pro—
jects. It seemed likely that many of the first
PVVA developments would have fewer children
than had often been anticipated. It was admitted
that the number of children in projects was de-
termined to a considerable extent by the rent
levels of the new housing and by the size of the
family housing units provided. As the session ad-
journed it was suggested that housing policy in
finance and design of buildings might well be
aimed at bringing as many children as possible
into the new developments.

Interpretation of the Recreation Movement—
Recem‘ Successful Experiments in
Recreation Publicity

By PHILIP L. SEMAN

General Director
lavish People’s Institute
Chicago, Illinois

HAT A NEW attitude to—
T ward publicity in recrea-

tion is developing was evi—
dent at this section meeting
from the accounts of the pre-
sentations from all sections of
the‘ country. It is no longer
enough to sit in the office and
send out press releases on any
activities and hope that the
newspapers will print them.
The very purpose of publicity
is widening out beyond in—
creasing attendance at a par—
ticular event or series of events.
Publicity in recreation now pur-

poses to make the citizens rec—
reation-conscious; to s h o w
them the importance of recre-

 

\

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 393

ation; to secure their support for recreation—in
short, to develop a sentiment in favor of rec-
reation.

To do this, we must let the people know what
our facilities are, what our recreational agencies
are doing, and what they can do for them. How
are we going to make these facts known? How
are we to develop this sentiment?

The main standby has been, and is, the news—-
paper. Often it is hard to get the newspaper to
present recreation news stories, eSpecially in cities
where there is only one paper that can afford to be
independent. Several solutions were presented in
the discussion. (I) Get the papers to sponsor
sports events, for they are naturally more inter-
ested in projects that they themselves have in—
vested money in. (2) Make personal contacts
with newspaper people, for then they will be more
willing to cooperate. (3) Use the local com-
munity papers, for they have more space that they
can offer for recreation items. By several speak—
ers the local papers were stressed as an important
agency in educating the community in what the
community recreative facilities have to offer.

The most successful means of securing news-
paper publicity is one that in itself opens up new
fields of publicity, aside from that in the news—
papers. Create Matt's is the new watchword. Cre-
ate news, and the newspapers cannot afford to
ignore it. Create news, and in the very act of
creating it you will arouse public interest and
secure public support.

Several interesting methods of creating news
have been tried and found to be successful. The
discussion brought out that Kalamazoo, Michi—
gan, conducted a survey by its Recreation Coun-
cil to inventory the recreational facilities of the
city, to show what was being done by private
agencies, by\ the City Recreation Bureau. the
Board of Education, the library, the Art Institute,
the Symphony Association and other groups of
like character. And then, in order to present the
results of the survey to the people, a mock jury
trial was held with a leading clergyman of the
city as judge, to present the case “Recreational
Possibilities for the Young Man and Woman of
Kalamazoo—the Young Man and Woman Against
the Citizens of Kalamazoo.” The trial brought
out the history of the survey, recreation in the
centers, the cost of recreation and the possibilities
of recreation for all. The single independent news—
paper in the city recognized the news value of the
trial and publicized it. From this trial also de—

veloped another agency, important in creating
news about recreation and securing public sup-
port for it, namely, the Community Council. Dele—
gates from neighborhood councils appeared before
the Board of Education and brought about the
increase in the use of public school buildings for
recreation purposes after school hours.

In Kalamazoo also, the Community Councils
are deve10pments of the parent-teachers groups;
the organizations doing similar work in other
cities have other origins. In Cincinnati, play—

ground mothers’ clubs were organized originally

to help maintain the playgrounds; now they con-
stitute one of the most vital forces in local com-
munity publicity. They take an active interest in
everything concerning the playground, and go
from house to house soliciting help of all kinds,
so that the community cannot help knowing what
the playgrounds are doing.

Reading, Pennsylvania, formerly discouraged
organizations of this kind, believing them to be
more of a hindrance than a help, but one and one—
half years ago the recreation department started
to encourage parent playground association. The
various playgrounds each sent two representatives
to the playground federation, which acts as a
clearing house on recreation information and as
an advisory body for playground improvements.
They help develop an understanding of recreation
in the community.

Neighborhood councils in Birmingham are en-
couraged to be as autonomous as possible. The
recreation staff members keep as much in the
background as possible, merely starting the or—
ganization by picking the key people in a com-
munity and calling the preliminary organization
meeting, which is then turned over to the group
to function independently. These neighborhood
groups are instrumental in creating news both
through their own activities and through their ac-
tive participation in demonstrations arranged by
the recreation department. Demonstrations of this
sort are considered one of the best forms of pub-
licity, by the recreation omcials in Philadelphia,
who plan a play day week in their forty recrea—
tion centers, where one day is set aside at each
center for demonstration of all types of play ac-
tivities. Reading, Pennsylvania, conducted a city—
wide playground play day and parade in which the
neighborhood groups were active.

Another method of creating news that was pre-
eminently successful was recreation week of Oak—
land, California, in which all forms of publicity

394 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION. GROUP MEETINGS

were utilized. Printed programs
of the week’s events were dis-
tributed throughout the city,
and for two months previous
programs for other events car-
ried a line or two about the ap-
proaching recreation week. A
sign board advertising company
donated the use of twenty-six
7’ x 7" outdoor boards. City
stores cooperated by donating
the use of their windows for
display purposes. Department bulletins told all
members of the recreation staff, from the janitors
up, what they ought to be telling the public about
recreation. The radio was utilized. Announce-
ments were made on other programs and during
the week one of the events was broadcast. A
motion picture was made of the activities and pre-
sented either with or without a speaker at meet-
ings of Parent-Teacher Associations, service clubs
and luncheon clubs. An effort was made, as far
as possible, to have announcements by member’s
of the groups addressed. This was found more
effective than talks by members of the staff of
the recreation department who are paid to pub-
licize recreation. An evening tour was conducted
to acquaint people with the facilities offered dur-
ing the evening. Newspaper publicity was used,
but it was by no means all important. Other
methods of publicity presented were bulletins to
sports and crafts organizations designed to show
pe0p1e how the recreation department work ties
up with their particular interests, and bulletins to
recreation chairmen of Parent—Teacher Associa-
tions, who presented the recreation news at their
monthly meetings. Extemporaneous talks on the
radio on recreation activities, as well as musical
and dramatic programs, and announcements on
other programs, have been utilized.

Some of the obstacles in facing recreation pub-
licity were presented by a layman of Cleveland.
reviewing the problem from the outside. He re-
minded the group that because of the puritanical
hangover people consider leisure time activities as
wicked, and contrary to the training of the child
in time-tested virtues of thrift, industry and dis-
cipline; that leisure is considered frivolous by an-
other serious—minded reformer type group; that
people avoid supervised activities from a fear of
regimentation and standardization; that profes-
sional .and technical terms are often antagonistic
to the general public, and that programs must be

"In our search for and considera-
tion of new frontiers tor recrea-
tion; in our planning for the wiser
use of the new leisure. and in our
approach to and study of the
problems attendant upon our et-
torts to create the life more abun-
dant, let us not forget that our
task will not be completed it we
fail to extend these frontiers to in-
clude to the fullest possible extent
our colored citizens."

linked up with things having a
wide-spread appeal, such as a
“safety first” program. But
more important than all this is
our own attitude toward recre-
ation; our need to relate all pro-
grams, large and small, to the
social, as contrasted with the
anti-social, activities. This must
be not merely a slogan but an
underlined philosophy. We must
make our cities intellectual cen-
ters of civilization. We must make our play-
grounds and field houses centers of civilization.

A final speaker presented the belief and the
challenge that we must put recreation into the cur-
riculum of education in the primary grades, in
the same classification as reading, writing. ge-
ography, history and arithmetic. It is more im-
portant than these subjects. Man today would be
an entirely different animal if he knew how to
play. We need a textbook on how to play for use
in the elementary grades—a simple book, direct
and fundamental. If the fathers and mothers of
the children today would know how to play, the
children would find recreation in the home as well
as outside of the home, and it would be a con-
structive kind 'of play. But you cannot teach
adults to play. You must begin with the child, not
merely a given number of children, but the child
generically, and teach him recreation. The next
generation will have a different story to tell than
the past generation has told, is telling and will tell.
Our publicity problems will be solved in the
future if we teach recreation to the child.

Methods of Increasing Recreation Opportunities
for Colored Groups

By DE HART HUBBARD

Supervisor for Recreation for Cofored
. U C t I I
Cmcmnatz, Ohio

HERE CAN be no better opening for this sum-
T mary of the findings of this meeting than the

statement made by the Chairman, Mr. C. E.
Brewer, of Detroit, in his presentation of the sec-
tion topic:

“The need for this Special session on opportunities or
recreation programs and facilities available to colored
groups, is not because there is any special differences in
recreational activities as between one grOUp and the
other, either white or colored, but largely because the
problems of promoting recreation indicate distinct dif-
ferences in the attempt to apply recreation programs to
the colored communities. These problems seem to arise

SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS . 395

in no one section of America—but present themselves in
various communities and in various ways, within and
without the group; sometimes beacause of needed inter-
racial adjustments, but often due to misunderstandings in
estimating the value of the program. The recreation
movement is designed and intended to reach all citizens
and it is important therefore to have any contribution—
that will aid all of us to reach this goal.”

In the light of such a statement it is extremely
interesting to note the—shall we say “admission”
—-——of one of the discussion participants, a white
recreation executive from the far South, who
agreed that “In planning and promoting our gen-
eral recreation programs the needs of the colored
citizens are usually overlooked or ignored, and in
most instances the program for the colored citi-

zens is an after—thought.”

The discussion by the delegates resulted in two
very definite conclusions: (I) Tllatthere is an
unquestioqu need___for organized public recrea-
tion programs among a group that has been forced
into a marginal position economically; (21 that
that—"group is willing and eager to participate in
such pfograms.and to lend every assistance when-
ever the opportunity presents itself ._

NIany splendid examples of the possibilities for
development of recreation opportunities for col-
0red citizens were presented in the meeting. De-
troit operates the largest and most complete rec-
reation building in an area of Negro settlement in
the United States. This $500,000 center houses
almost every conceivable activity and has a com-
plete full time staff. During a recent visit to
Detroit Mrs. F. D. Roosevelt became so enthusi-
astic that she postponed filling another engage-
ment. It is also an interesting side light that the
newest sensation in the manly art of self de-
fense, Joe Louis, received all of his training prior
to his professional engagement in the center box-
ing classes.

Several communities reported that in the recog-
nition of needed facilities new buildings are in
prospect or have been secured: Kalamazoo, a
$54,000 center; Lexington, an additional build-
ing to their present $65,000 center, Louisville, a
remodeled Y. M. C.A. building completed at a
cost of $40,000, Detroit is planning another build-
ing that will cost $199,000. Chicago, Tampa,
Pittsburgh, Ashville, Birmingham, Houston,
Rockford, .VVaco and other cities also reported
efforts to provide what might be termed ap-
proaches to adequate programs.

These reports disclosed innumerable facts con-
cerning such programs. Of special significance
was the fact that practically all were the result of

awakened interest that had been stimulated by
recreation surveys. In every case the survey dis-
closed that there were either no prografns or only
the most meagre of attempts at conducting such
programs. In most cases these disclosures startl-
ed not only the city officials into action, but the
colored groups, suddenly awakened, organized
.citizens’ councils and began campaigns to help
themselves secure facilities and leadership to sup-
ply their recreation needs. Through these citi-
zens’ committees considerable volunteer interest
and service have been secured. The activities have
been extended and the movement interpreted to
the community. Better interracial understanding
of the problems of the Negro groups, a more fav-
orable public sentiment for recreation projects
and the acquisition of facilities, have been secured
by the use of bi-racial advisory recreation boards.
Such boards have been supplemented by recrea-
tion councils of colored citizens assisting in the
promotion of activity programs. Recreation sur-
veys must be of benefit when such results are re-
ported. May I digress a moment to say that we
who are engaged in the promotion of recreation
for Negro citizens certainly appreciate the expert
services of Mr. E. T. Attwell of-the National
Recreation Association, and want the Association
and Mr. Attwell to know that their efforts are
playing an invaluable part in attaining the oppor-
tunities that are so much desired.

Leadership was an outstanding factor in the

' discussion and it was agreed that there must be

both volunteer and paid leadership. Retardation
of the programs has been partly due to a lack of
interest among colored leaders. This interest must
be stimulated. Official recognition of volunteer
councils by the city governments will help create
and maintain” their interest. There is need for
study of the colored community and the Negro
knows himself better than any one else can know
him so his counsel must be considered and recog-
nized in all such studies.

There is a unique problem in obtaining Negro
volunteer leadership in class activity fields. The
generally unfavorable economic status of the race
causes such leadership to be given with an idea of
qualifying for possible future employment. Col-
ored citizens do not have the economic strength
to give fully of their time without compensation
even when they are so inclined.

Perhaps the greatest need following physical
facilities is for adequately trained professional
leadership, a fact which is true not only in the

396 SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GRO UP MEETINGS

Negro group, but also in the general program.
There is the same need for special training in the
administration and leadership of recreation.
While we have persons trained in special talents
and branches of the work, the session felt that
their abilities should be developed and coordinated
by training courses and institutes. Special com-
mendation was given the five week summer
school courses held until recently by the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The several one
week institutes held this year served as excellent
stimulants, disclosing potential leadership, but it
was felt that a renewal of the summer school is
needed to further develop the adequate leaders
for the newly'enlarged programs.

Several problems were discussed but not sat-
isfactorily solved. Perhaps no one can solve them
but they demonstrate the. fact that the problems
of the work for colored citizens are similar and
parallel to those of the general program. How
can we secure emergency relief workers in fair
proportion to our needs? What can be done to
secure a better selection of qualified workers?
How can advisory boards best be selected? How
can we secure better supervisorial control of
ERA workers? How can more adeQuate budgets
be secured?

The Spread of Recreation Info Rural Areas

By RUTH McINTIRE

Extension Specialist in Recreation
State of Jlfassaclmsefts

110513 01“ US who are concerned especially with
Tthe rural and small communities were very

glad to have this special section devoted to
this topic, and to see the interest in it as evidenced
both by attendance and the ready participation in
the discussions. A hasty canvass showed that' the
group represented the recreational interests of the
Agricultural Extension Service, county, state, and
local school administrators, parks, relief and in-
dustrial programs, churches, VVPA, federal hous-
ing, parent-teachers associations and private in—
terests.

As chairman, Dr. David E. Lindstrom of the
University of Illinois, College of Agriculture,
opened the discussion by pointing out that mecha-
nization in agriculture had brought about a new
situation, just as in the industrial world. Not only
had it increased the leisure of rural people but
had been the means of introducing commercial or
ready-made amusements which had become their

chief form of recreation. Recently there has been
a trend toward a more creative use of this leisure.
As an indication of this trend Dr. Lindstrom cited
the 293 drama groups in 46 counties of Illinois
which participated in the state tournament spon-
sored by the Extension Service of the College. In
connection with these, training institutes were
held for leaders of already existing organizations,
thus developing the lay leadership. This year a
chorus of 800 people from nine counties pre-
sented a choral recital at the State Fair, and they
are now planning to present the oratorio Elijah
next year.

To prevent our going astray in the.maze of
fifteen questions which had been suggested for
discussion, Dr. Linstrom grouped the questions
under four main heads:

I. What is needed today in a recreation pro—
gram in rural areas?

2. \Vhat are the present programs and the ex-
isting agencies now operating?

3. \Vhat are effective types of administration
and relationships between various agencies?

4. A consideration of special problems.

Miss Ella Gardner, recreation specialist in' the
U. S. Department of Agriculture, reminded us
that in determining the desirable content of our
recreation program, we must consider that it
needs to serve the individual, the family group,
and the community as a whole. Incidentally, Miss
Gardner called attention to the fact that the
family unit does still exist, at least in the rural
districts, in spite of recent statements to the

contrary.
The individual needs opportunities to discover

abilities, skills and interests within himself; op-
portunity to enjoy social relationships with others

. and skills which add to this enjoyment} oppor—

tunity to enjoy creative activities—music, physi—
cal recreation, books, nature; opportunity to par-
ticipate in the social ai1d civic affairs of the com-
munity, to know sources of information in the
field of his interests; the opportunity to talk—
and something worth while to talk about.

The family needs recreational activities suitable
for enjoyment together in the home—skill games,
music (singing "and playing together and music
appreciation) handcrafts, hobbies, and also op—
portunities to go to community and other events
as a family unit.

For the community as a whole, music, drama,
sports, social affairs and other such activities are
important for creating an awareness in the com—

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 397

munity of its existence as an entity. This does
not imply organising the community, but rather
a realization of its existing agencies and organi—
zations.

Considerable discussion of program followed.
Mr. F. J. Lipovetz, State Director of Education
and Recreation, VV.P.A., Wisconsin, pointed out
two bases for planning any program—one, the
expressional type which is built on the interests
and activities already present; the other, the more
difficult work or correctional program, planned to
meet existing needs and problems needing cor—
rection.

Mr. C. M. Miles, State Educational Depart-
ment, New York State, started something when
he emphasized the importance of including more
games in the program and stated that it is difficult
to teach rural people to play. Oregon people seem
to take to playing very well, as evidenced by the
demands on the Extension recreation worker
there, and so do Florida folks, according to Mr.
Locke of Coral Gables, who feels that it isn’t
necessary for them to realize the importance of
play provided they play, which every community
will do if given a chance. However, Mr. Jack
Knapp of the National Recreation Association,
has found some communities which don’t know
how to play. Their grandmothers did, but it is a
lost art.

Mr. Richard T. Gardner, rural recreational
specialist of New Hampshire reported that they
had rather overemphasized games in getting their
program started, and are now giving more time
to dramatics, crafts, hobbies, making a broader
interpretation of the term recreation.

An Iowa representative asked whether rural
women came together for real play and outdoor
activities in addition to quilting, etc. The popu—
larity of rural women’s county and state camps
sponsored by the Agricultural Extension Service
in many states indicates how much the
women enjoy playing together, and tak-
ing new ideas back for recreational ac-
tivities at home.

Mr. David D. Hicks, director of rec—
reation, West Virginia Relief Adminis-
tration, described the program of the
rural Recreation and Art League which
includes ten counties in central West
Virginia. About thirty different activi-
ties are carried on——dramatics, all types
of choral and instrumental music, folk
and social dancing, athletics and sports,

BUY

CHRISTMAS
SEALS

 

TUBERCULOSIS

informal group games, and debating. Each county
has an advisory committee and there is a central.
council of representatives from each county and
the Extension Service which meets four or five
times a year. The league program is based on the
interests expressed in the local communities and
counties. Twice each year there are regional
round-ups when some 30,000 rural people flock
to Jackson’s Mill, the state 4-H camp grounds, to
participate and lend moral support to groups from
the home community. Since emergency recrea-
tion leaders have been available, they have as-
sisted in these activities but work through exist-
ing organizations.

Reference was made to the experiment in rec-
reation cooperatives being carried on in connec-
tion with the cooperative movement in Indiana.
By this time we were well along in the field of
administration, so with the final thought that the
content of the program is largely dependent upon
the type of leadership available, and the plea to
protect the spirit of joy for joy’s sake, rather than
for some ulterior motive, we focused attention on
the knotty problem of what is the most effective
means of adminstering the rural recreation
program. '

This problem is the more complex because of
what was termed the “dangers of the newly pop-
ular recreation band wagon,” on which so many
agencies are trying to climb. The more different
groups there are interested in recreation, the bet—
ter, but they do complicate the administration
problem.

H. E. Wilson, Riverside, California, came with
the definite problem. of determining the best
method for establishing a permanent recreation
program in a county with some nine smaller pop-
ulation centers, ranging in size from 600 to 6000
all of which are approached or besieged by any
number of different agencies to organize a recre—
ation program.

Some of us wished that Mr. Arthur
Lampe, County Superintendent of
Schools in St. Louis County, Minnesota,
might be borrowed long enough to go
out and preach the gospel to other school
administrators of the use of school fa-
cilities and personnel for adult educa-
tion and general community recreation
purposes. The educational program there
is one of work, study, and recreation,
planned to develOp a balanced life rather
than merely the 3 R’s. Buildings are

398 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

being equipped not only for agricultural and
home-making courses but with generous facilities
for recreation both for the young people in the
schools and for the community at large. Mr.
Lampe pointed out that public schools have ne-

glected what is both an opportunity and a respon— .

sibility that, as compared to the ten million dol-
lars of federal funds allotted in this country to
each of certain special departments and bureaus,
the educational system has a six billion dollar
plant, with an annual appropriation of two and a
half billion dollars. Proper use of this plant and
personnel for the whole community, rather than
its restriction to the children only, would tre-
mendously increase the recreational opportunities
of the pe0ple of the United States.

In a county-wide recreation program sponsored
through the department of physical education,
recreation,and community extension of the schools,
St. Louis County is divided into fourteen regions,
each having its own athletic council made up of
representatives of local leagues. There are 160
teams in the county leagues, and twelve different
sports (are carried on.

FERA and other emergency recreation and
adult educational programs have been adminis-
tered through this county department of educa-
tion which has conducted three-day training in-
stitutes at intervals ‘of three months for the emer-
gency workers.

Mr. Wilson of Riverside believes that the Cali-
fornia situation makes the schools the logical cen-
ter through which the various recreational activi-
ties might be coordinated there, since present fa-
cilities and personnel might be well put to wider
use with very little extra expense.

Reference was made to Milwaukee’s lighted
school houses as an outstanding demonstration of
full use of existing facilities.

This development, of course, presupposes not
Only an open attitude on the part of school boards
and superintendents, but facilities adaptable for
recreational uses—both of which are sadly lacking
in many rural school systems. A consolidation
into units large enough to make possible the pro—
vision of needed equipment would be necessary,
and also a revamping of the teacher training
courses in our teachers’ colleges so as to give
teachers the attitude and training needed in this
broader education-recreation program. Mean-
while, since only such a small percentage of rural
schools are consolidated, some other sponsorship
for the recreation program must be found. In

many places the county and state Agricultural Ex-
tension Service has taken the lead through its
community organization or recreation specialist.
Where no agencies have already been active, the
WPA or other emergency recreation workers
have set up effective community or county coun-
cils in several places.

New York State revived an old law by which a
board consisting of three representatives of voca-
tional agriculture, three from the Extension Serv-
ice, and three from the county at large, appointed
by the county commissioners, may receive a share
of state equalization funds to employ a county
supervisor. The Chautauqua County planning
board located its consolidated schools on the
county map and marked around each the area in
which it would serve the children during the day
and the adults at night.

There was general agreement that regardless of
who might administer the program, the most ef-
ficient plan is to use existing school and other
available buildings and facilities to full capacity
provided they are suitable, rather than to spend
money in duplicating these. Since local conditions
vary so greatly, naturally no one formula could
be evolved for application to all problems and
situations.

|

The Place of Special Boards or Commissions in the
Extension of the Recreation Movement

By RALPH H. WATERHOUSE

Superintendent of Schools
Akron, Ohio

HERE WERE two distinct issues raised at our

meeting: (I) Will the unpaid board or com-

mission of lay citizens‘ or the departmental
head, responsible to the city’s chief executive, bet-
ter conceive and better administer recreation? (2)
With commissions or‘boards, what is the most de-
sirable set-up?

The advantages of the board or commission are:

I.,Membership may be secured from the ranks
of genuinely interested and highly competent
citizens.

2. There is less probability of political intrigue.

3. A board better guarantees the progress of
the long-range program.

4. The program has the standing and balance
in the community of a civic function with intrin-
sic worth. The departmental head to often is per-
suaded by extrinsic interests. He is also quite

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 399

frequently handicapped by these accusations, un-
fairly.

5. There is more feeling of security and there-
fore of responsibility on the part of members of
the staff. Competent persons therefore are more
likely to accept appointment to the staff.

6. The collective judgment of a commission is
likely to be better than that of the executive alone.

The advantages of the departmental head form
of control are:

I. The responsible head of the local govern-
ment should have the direct charge of all depart-
ments of government.

2. The 10gic of a commission for one aspect of
government may as well be applied to other
functions. ,

3. Proper management of fiscal matters must
take into account all budgets.

4. The inertia induced by security or position
is avoided.

The weight of Opinion and ex-
perience favor the board or com-
mission.

Mr. Harland Bartholomew,
City Planner, St. Louis, Mo.,
said, “the abandonment of park
and recreation boards has meant
poorer results.” Mrs. Anna C.

Law, President of the Board of
Playground‘Directors, Oakland, California, said,

“The city administration thinks more in economic
terms and the budget, and less in terms of human
values. The commission is indispensible in the
creation of just public opinion.” Mr. Max Hirsch,
President of the Public Recreation Commission,
Cincinnati, Ohio, favors the independent board
for either good or poor city administrations. He
pointed out that the city of Cincinnati had such a
board and also an unusually sympathetic city

manager.
As contrary opinion, Mr. Gustavus T. Kirby

cited the excellent administration of New York
City’s parks and playgrounds by Mr. Robert

Moses.

A discussion of the question “With commis-
sions or boards, what is the most desirable set-
up ?” showed that the weight of opinion and ex-
perience favors a commission of a minimum of
five members appointed by the city’s chief execu-
tive for staggered terms of service of at least five
years. The appointment and discharge of the
commission’s chief staff officer should rest with
the commission, it would seem. The direction of

"Youth needs three things to fit
it for life. It needs discipline;
it needs friends; and it needs
recreation and interests. They
will help youth itself to master
the means of making life worth

while." The Prince of Wales,
in The Coming of Leisure.

the program should likewise be solely under the.
jurisdiction of the commission.

The personnel of the commission should be
representative of local and civic agencies, includ-
ing 'the city administration and the board of edu-
cation. It was stated by Mr. Hirsch that this
form of organization would “avoid the duplica-
tion of facilities.”

Judge Fielding L. Walker, Jr., Chairman of
the Recreation Commission of Durham, N. C.,
favored strongly the following type of personnel
for the commission: (I) the city manager; (2)
the superintendent of schools; (3) a member of
the city council; (4) a member of the board of
education, and (5) a citizen at large.

'Mr. Harold C. Hunt, Superintendent of
Schools, Kalamazoo, Michigan, strongly urged
the inclusion of the superintendent of schools on
the commission. He stated that the modern edu-
cational program comprehends
the vital implications of recrea-
tional activities, and that there is
no clear line of separation. Mr.
Kirby also urged “the closest
kind of cooperation between the
schools, and the parks and recre-
ation boards.”

at: * *

The question of the place and
function of advisory boards was but briefly hinted.

Mrs. Law did not favor advisory boards. She
believes that their recommendations are not taken
seriously, that the commission is likely to be in-
different to and not to respect their views. Judge
Walker disagreed with Mrs., Law, stating that an
advisory committee representative of all social and
civic agencies will provide a “sense of security,”
and be a “life saver.”

There is ample reason to believe that a large
recreation council or league would supply an ex-
cellent medium (I) for sustaining the program,
(2) for interpreting its values, and (3) for de-
veloping its use. The schools of this country by
and large are supported in a most desirable way
by the parent-teacher organizations. After all,
progressive leadership is always neutralized by
the thought and action of the unenlightened. The
council or league, with the active membership of
a large body of citizens, is the public expression
of an open mind on all questions affecting the
destiny of the program.

The objectives of the recreational program, in
my Opinion, are so blended in sound, educational

400 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

theory and practice that they cannot be considered
separately. In answer to the question, “How im-
portant is leisure-time activity?” I wish to cite
three observations.

First, it more and more monopolizes man’s
time, energy and resources; whereas in frontier
days, work was master. Second, it may be worth
something to observe that when the Italian people
were using their radios to listen to Mussolini’s
call to the grim business of war, the American
people were “tuned in” on a world’s series base-
ball game. Third, it may be that we will yet try
to put harmony, balance and color in the drab
picture of work and pleasure, by frank recogni-
tion of the recreational possibilities in the study
of one’s religion. The re-creation of the spirit
certainly has as wide implications as the re-crea—
tion! of the body.

The thinking and the purposes of all groups
are converging on the single purpose of- the com-
plete development of the individual. We who un-
derstand each other so well, must not let our deeds
destroy this ideal.

The Part of Recreation in Maintaining Health
MentalI Physical and Social Hygiene

By W. K. STREIT

Director of Physical Education
Cincinnati Public Schools

R. CARL A. WILZBACH of the Public Health
Federation of Cincinnati, opened the meet-
ing by referring briefly to present conditions

which are making for increased leisure and the
challenge presented to recreation. He contended
that we are entering a new era of usefulness for
recreation and that its services are manifold.
However, in our enthusiasm we must be careful
of what We say regarding its values. Too often
claims are made which are based merely on opin-
ion and have no scientific background of support-
ing data.

The questions receiving most attention during
the discussion dealt with the prevention of mental
breakdowns, the bolstering of morale and co-rec-
reational activities. Specific instances were cited
regarding the value of recreation in institutions
for defectives, delinquents and dependents and
the number of marvelous cures which have been
effected. Music, handcraft and simple games were
mentioned as having great value.

There are 300,000 children each year appearing

as juvenile delinquents in the United States and
according to the United States bi-annual survey
of education the per capita cost of these is $518
per year. There are also 389,500 patients clas-
sified as insane in state hospitals in the country at
the present time, and the per capita cost of these
is $627. per year. The solution of the problem of
delinquency and insanity lies not in cure but in
prevention. It is, therefore, a sound economic
principle to spend more money for recreational
purposes as a preventive measure. As a result we
should save not only children who would other-
wise be institutionalized at a tremendous cost, but
also vast public funds.

Recreation in its many diversified forms will con-
tribute more to the normal mental health of an in-
dividual than any other single factor. It will solve
many of the emotional conflicts arising from the
demands of society upon us. It will give the in-
ferior and inadequate personality the opportunity
to achieve recognition through proper channels in-
stead of making it necessary for him to be a
gangster later in life. It will protect the day-
dreaming individual who is trying to escape from
reality instead of making it necessary for him to
be a case of dementia praecox in order to survive
and spend the remaining days of his life in a
state hospital. It will decrease our suicide rate
which is due largely to the fact that individuals
have not learned to escape properly from their
difficulties. Recreation is an outlet for frustrated
hopes and shattered ideals. The art of keeping
young and of being successful in any prolonged
strenuous activity lies in the individual’s ability to
select properly a recreational program and ad-
here to it closely throughout life.

With regard to bolstering morale, the point was
made that everyone needs to be well thought of
in the home and community and that he should be
able to do something and to do it a little bit better
than someone else. With unemployment comes
worry, indifference and loss of self respect. The
power of building self respect through recreation
was illustrated in the case of the cabinet maker
who had hit the depths of despair and was brought
back through the medium of building stage scen-
ery for a community center play in which his
daughter was participating.

The movement for co-recreational activities has
come about through a change of public opinion.
Many of the former restrictions and inhibitions
have been broken down and puritanical ideas plus

 

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS ‘ 401

blue laws no longer prevail. The demand has come
from the adolescents themselves. It is a healthy
sign, for, as one speaker reiterated, “There would
be fewer divorces in American life if more women

understood the game of baseball.”

The activities which seem to have the greatest
co-recreational 'appeal at present are swimming,
badminton, tennis, archery, dancing, golf, hiking
and volleyball. ‘

The 16 to 26 year group has been neglected in
the past because of the segregation of recreational
activities. It is now recognized that adolescence is
the time for adjustment to the opposite sex. Co—
recreational activities at this age will have a whole-
some effect On family life. In fact, it was empha-
sized that the sexes should be mixed at even an
earlier age through participation of boys and girls
in folk and social dancing. This should not be
construed to mean that boys should compete
against girls in competitive games nor does it mean
that all games can be used. There should be a
limited amount of this activity which is purely
social recreation. The boys should not give up
their own types of strenuous activity, nor should
the girls give up their womanly games. Our ob-
jectives must be kept clearly in mind. We are
now in a period of social planning, community
'building, and the results will be discernable ten
years hence.

A sensible association between the sexes is im-
portant because it is essential to a normal social
life. It gives young pe0ple an opportunity to be-
come really acquainted with one another. Boys
and girls must be taught how to play together;
they must play today for tomorrow’s living. There
is no better way of developing a wholesome in-
terest in those of the opposite sex than through
sports and recreational activities.

It was argued that longevity is largely a matter
of heredity but that recreation can make life more
livable. Recreation alone will not reduce the waist-
line, but most pe0ple overweight can reduce by
diet and exercise. Recreations that are most help-
ful in conditioning the body are really an indi-
vidual matter. Much depends upon a pleasurable
reaction during participation. Physical, mental
and social health cannot be separated, but can all
be reached through a well-rounded program of
recreation and leisure time activities. If recrea-
tion can be made more of a family affair, many of
our present social difficulties will vanish.

Youth on fhe New Recreal'ion Fronl'ier
By GEORGE T. DONocnUE

General Superintendent -
Chicago Park District

R. LOUIS L. MANN of the Chicago Sinai Con-
gregation, in opening the discussion re—”
minded us that the problem of youth was

not a new one; that even the people in King Tut’s
time thought the world would soon come to an
end because of the behavior of their youth at that
time. History is repeating itself because many of
our dispairists have long reached the same con-
clusion. Not so Dr. Mann who made the state-
ment that youth was infinitely better today than
it ever had been and necessarily had to be because
of the increased temptations that our modern civi-
lization had brought about. He stressed the eco-
nomic factors and also the factor of what motori-
zation of transportation had done to increase the
play area of our boys and girls of the present
time. He referred to youth as a “dynamo of
power” which, if handled correctly and intelli-
gently, would lead to much good. If abused, only
the worst can be expected. He brought out rather
pungently the fact that he hoped the new leisure
would open advantages for cultural pursuits which
in the past had been open to a very small minority.
As a general suggestion, Dr. Mann felt that all of
us in seeking recreation should in the final
analysis simply do the things that are different
from our ordinary occupation. For instance, the
plumber might paint and the painter might wipe
a Jomt.

Dr. R. E. Hieronymous, Community Advisor
Emeritus of the University of Illinois, took up
the discussion following Dr. Mann’s introduction.
He recalled the early days of what he chose to

name “Pioneer Recreation,” when the pioneer
recreation of his own childhood seemed to be
limited to story—telling in front of the great fire.
Such events as the big snow, the night} of the big
wind, and Indian Wars, and even the behavior of
the stars, furnished most of the material for his
early recreational activity. He stressed the passing
out in our attitude toward youth of the “Don’t do
this” and “Don’t do that.” To many of us this
brought back not the happiest of our childhood
memories! He spoke with great feeling of the
fine work that had been done in rural communi-
ties, particularly in the formation of 4-H Clubs.
He further brought out the necessity of coordinat-

402 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

ing the various agencies in any community that
were attempting a reCreation program. Even the
farmer has undergone a metamorphosis in recrea-
tion and his attitude toward life, in that he no
longer feels that he must move into the city when

the children become of school age but now looks
upon the problem as his own when the children
arrive at that period. Urged on by the best of
ambitions he joins with his neighbors in provid-
ing public education and recreation facilities, keep-
ing his children at home with himself and Maria

on the farm.

Mr. Raymond W. Robertson, Superintendent
of Recreation from Oakland, California, told us
what was being done on the Coast in bringing to-
gether leaders in various forms of recreation ac-
tivities not only to cooperate but to save duplica-
tion of work. Such coordinating groups as were
formed in Oakland have done much good in com-
bating the ever-present problem of juvenile de-
linquency. Mr. Robertson felt there would be a
field even in the city for clubs of the 4-H variety.
He touched lightly on a matter of great import-
ance to park men, namely that of charges in con-
nection with recreation. Many of us wished that
he would have developed this subject a little more
at length because it is a live one in which we are
all interested. Time, however, did not permit this
to be done. Mr. Robertson strongly urged more
activity in providing camping facilities. The Coast,
too, is faced with the problem of the increased use
of their facilities and consequently have had to set
about to train in rather intensive courses addi-

tional leaders, many of them of the volunteer type.
The next speaker was Mr. A. W. Thompson,
Director of 'Health Education and City Educa-

tion from Grand Rapids, Michigan. He felt that
the outstanding need for recreation of the youth
of today is that of self-development. Youth to-
day has a new viewpoint but not necessarily a
new content. Some of our educators may have
been somewhat shocked by his statement that edu-
cation is usually stilted and warned us that recre-
ation has frequently made the same mistake, but
not frequently. Youth in general, he felt, grop-
ing as it is, probably understands their own prob-
lems better than their elders. Many of us were in-
trigued with his plea for special recreation for
newly married couples. We have probably been

lulled by the general idea that matrimony itself
was happiness and bliss and two devoted lovers
needed nothing else, but Mr. Thompson with an
all—seeing eye into many homes, has found that a
young married couple, particularly initheir period
of early adjustment of married life, need outside
contacts, and special efforts should be made to
reach this neglected group, which many of us

thought had preferred to be entirely left alone, at
least through the honeymoon and post-honeymoon
period!

The period left for discussion was all too short.
However, we did get an insight into what a pro—
gressive minister has done with his young people
ranging in general from 18 to 25 years. This en-
ergetic pastor organized an.open forum in which
his young people presided and all manner of ques-
tions were discussed. Dramatics in the church
group were organized, and dancing was even per-
mitted within the edifice. We were also told how
a prison in New York City was made into a real
community center. Athletic teams organized with-
in the prison competed with those from without
with a great deal of success. One of the prisoners

whose term was about to expire said he was very
sorry that he would soon be out from behind the

prison bars!

Just before closing someone mentioned audibly
the word “tavern.” Immediately the session was
agog! Judging from the attitude of our group
they would have spent the balance of the day dis-
cussing the subject if time had permitted. Every
one seemed to recognize that the tavern was here
as an illegitimate competitor in the field of rec-
reation. Since it is here to stay for an indefinite
period we are all interested in' finding how it had
been combated in two communities. Detroit’s
solution of this problem offers a great deal of
hope in that there have been so-called “beerless”
taverns where no alcoholic drinks are served, but
in which the setting and the things that seem to

make taverns attractive to our young people were
still offered to them. Madison, Wisconsin, had
another solution which consisted_ in securing a
large dance hall with a Splendid orchestra and
putting on dances on a very high plane under
proper chaperonage. Both of these antidotes seem
to offer at least two weapons in defense of this
problem which will confront almost any metro-
politan and even suburban and rural community.

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 403

Cooperaiive Planning for Education-Recreaiion
Services— Local and National

By DAVID H. HOLBROOK

Secretary, National Social Work Council
New York City

N THIS MEETING, presided over by Lester Scott,
I Secretary, Camp Fire Girls, Inc., there was a
spirited and at times somewhat pessimistic dis-
cussion of this rather all-embracing concept. The
desirability of ends sought was tacitly assumed by
all who spoke, though the content, processes and
limits of planning as a function were not so clear
even as a point of departure for the discussion of
divergent opinions. The time was too short.
The opening statement of Thomas W. Lantz,
Superintendent of Recreation, Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, that he “had found it a joy to cooperate in
Reading” implied much that needed to be ampli-
fied by discussion. If his clear presentation of the
community’s organization set-up, consisting of a
council of forty-seven social agencies in all fields
and a leisure—time division of seventeen agencies
with its girls’ work, boys’ work and interracial com-
mittees, could have been followed by many ques-
tions, it would have been brought out how general
and habitual is that community’s practice in co-
operative planning, and some light would have
been shed on many of the difficulties and obstacles
mentioned by others. After a week’s stay in Read-
ing last year, Mr. Eugene T. Lies of the National
Recreation Association reported to the National
Education-Recreation Council how “cooperation
had been made to hum” there during the ten year
stay of Charles Alspach, the Community Chest
executive, and more important still, how the
progress in the leisure-time field could be traced
back to some very‘informal and patient coopera-
tive planning by a small group of women as early
as 1900. The story of other communities would
show that cooperative planning takes time and is
most effective when it becomes habitual and de-
velops as'a habit of mind among community lead-
ers, lay and professional. The organization pat-
terns and administrative arrangements may vary
greatly but the principal of growth will always be
present. Some round table at another Congress
might well consider and better define the nature
of this principle and its successful application by
getting the experience of still other cities that have
traveled the road.
Mr. Earl W'. Brandenburg, Associate General
Secretary, National Council of Y.M.C.A.’s, Chi-

cago, s0unded this note when he observed, “It
would be unfortunate if one of the questions sug-
gested for our discussion regarding the composi-
tion and place in the community for planning
machinery were thought of as implying that there
is any one way. It depends on the experience in
any one community.” He also referred with ap-
proval to a paper read at the last National Con-
ference of Social \Nork which expressed a pref-
erence for the term “joint planning” rather than
“coordinated planning,” Mr. Brandenburg believes
that most of us are afraid really to tackle cooper-
ative planning though we talk a lot about it, “We
don’t have a clear idea as to what is essential.”
He listed as the essentials for planning together
the following: '

I. Dealing with a real need

2. Doing something about it

3. Accepting responsibility

4. Agreeing to be accountable for carrying out
the responsibility accepted.

An inference to be drawn from Mr. Branden-
burg's remarks might fairly be that rather than
discuss a possible type of standard machinery for
planning, he would rather consider the process
and not spend too long at that. This list of es-
sentials is in reality another suggested round table
topic. If we intend to understand better this way
of working together where agencies seem to be
the integral units more than individuals, we shall
have to review these very elementary and familiar
steps in their less familiar settings. Someone also
pointed out in the informal discussion that-it is
largely a .question of leadership, and that brings
us back to individuals after all. Mr. Lies would
give much more attention to this whole matter in
the training of all social workers.

Mr. Alfred H. Wyman, speaking as Secretary
of the Department of Neighborhood Service and
Recreation, Community Council, St. LOuis, Mis-
souri, and out of his experience in several cities,
indicated some of the factors in the situation and
their inherent difficulties. He pointed out the need
for the following:

1. A clear cut plan in which the functions of
agencies are well defined. These must be rec0g-
nized by all groups with no one agency obscuring
the horizon

2. The bringing together of the group in the
face of no statement of underlying principles, no
common standards of employment, and a failure
to recognize neighborhood welfare in civic groups

404 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

3. A public understanding that is constructive
and not negative

4. Adequate financing of the work with better
and more informing budget practice greatly needed

The fundamental question, he felt, is, “where
will responsibility be placed?” St. Louis has
taken ten years to persuade the park and school
boards to ‘sit around the same table.

This issue of responsibility was deeply buried
in many of the questions raised though not specifi-
cally discussed. Whether it is better to organize
to do it yourself or put the emphasis on getting it
done by others needs to be better understood and
the experience carefully studied. Cooperative plan—
ning has such .a strong tendency always to over-
institutionalize itself and so defeat its real pur-
pose. Yet who will see that something keeps hap—
pening? And what is that something?

Mr. Lantz’s list of cooperative projects and
similar lists from other cities deserve careful
analysis as to their why, when, how and who, in
each particular instance. Mr. Lantz lists coopera-
tion with:

I. City Planning Commission (for suggesting
new sites for play areas and VVPA improvements)

2. Reading Music Foundation (to secure funds
for free band concerts in city parks and play-
grounds and for music for weekly folk dance fes-
tivals)

3. Council of Civic Service Clubs (for promot-
ing children’s camps and preservation of aban-
doned school sites for play areas)

4. Parent Playground Associations (for in-
creasing budget, beautifying and increasing play
areas, purchasing playground equipment: and giv-
ing publicity)

5. Private Organizations (Junior League, Izaak
Walton League, Chamber of Commerce Safety
Council, Council of Religious Federations, insti—

tutions and church centers

6. School Officials
7. City Officials

In pointing out difficulties, Mr. Brandenburg
noted a confiict between local planning and the in—
fluence of national organizations. He distinguish-
ed between “some nationals that promote pro-
grams and some that exist primarily to assist lo-
cals to meet community needs.” .Mr. Ray Wyland
of the National Boy Scouts agreed that there was
a conflict but stated that after all an agency has
to carry out its own function before it can go

outside.
Someone asked, “How can a municipal depart-

nient cooperate without weakening its own pro-
gram?” “What program would you recommend
for a community that has no program?” Several
raised questions showing the uncertainties of com-
munity relationships with the federal and state
activities. The State of Connecticut was men-
tioned as having a cooperative program between
the CCC, the FERA and other governmental-
activities.

Mr. Arthur Williams of the staff of the Na-
tional Recreation Association sounded a positive
note in his statement regarding the National
Education-Recreation Council, a body composed
of delegates from fifteen or more national organi-
zations which operates without budget, staff or
formal program. Necessity brought these organi—
zations together in 1933, and one problem after
another—such as the CCC project, some experi-
ments in cooperative field service and more re-
cently, the National Youth Administration—has
focused attention on finding ways for getting
something done rather than primai‘ily on ques-
tions of jurisdiction, procedure, publicity, finance
or coordination.

Successful Experiments in Crime Prevention
Through Recreation

By E. DANA CAuLKINS

S upcrintendent of Recreation
M’cstchcstcr County, New York

ALTER L. STONE, Director of the Council of

Social Agencies, Nashville,-was chairman

of this meeting. As a result of the dis-
cussion there seemed to be general agreement
on the following points: It was recognized that
recreation is a powerful tool in preventing and
correcting juvenile delinquency. It was also em-
phasized that it is only one of the tools that are
needed in the community, and that it must be
used in cooperation twith the activity of other
agencies, such as the schools, the courts, the
police organization, housing organizations, health
organizations, and family welfare and relief agen-
cies. Most of the discussion centered on means
of creating this condition of cooperation with
other agencies through some sort of coordinating
council. In most instances the larger cities have
found it desirable not only to have a central city
coordinating council, but to establish in those
areas where combined efforts are being concen-
trated in the prevention and correction of crime
conditions, district councils composed not only of

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 405

the official professional representatives of various
agencies, but including also householders and resi-
dents of the district who are primarily interested
in this sort of cooperation.

The second point which was emphasized sev—
eral times and on which there seemed to be gen—
eral agreement .was that recreation will be most
effective in the combating and prevention of juve—
nile crime with those potential criminals, if you
call them such, who are suffering from an un-
satisfied craving for attention. That was elabo—
rated by explaining that what we mean is young-
sters who are craving acceptance, recognition, af—
fection. This represents the largest single group
in any classification of potential or actual juvenile
delinquents. It was emphasized that the recrea-
tion program may not hope to have much of an
effect on the youngsters who fall into such classes
.as the neurotic, for instance, or revenge seekers.

The third point was the recognition of what we
have heard many times: That is, the club organi-
zation offering a variety of activities is the most
effective in the direct attack upon juvenile delin-
quency, but that club organization must be com-
bined with effective contact with parents and
others infiuencing the lives of the children in
these clubs.

The fourth point, about which there was very
little discussion be-
cause there was very
little that could be re-
ported, was the need
for attention to or-
ganization of recrea—
tional activities specifi-
cally aimed to meet
the needs of girls,
groups of girls who,
while in numbers in
which they appear in
court for delinquency
do not represent so
large a problem as do
the boys, do repre-
sent a considerable
problem in various
communties.

The suggestion was
made, in View of the
fact that quotations
were given from a
considerable number
.of surveys and recent

 

publications, that the delegates of the convention
be urged to report to the secretary of the conven-
tion any recent publications on this subject of
combating juvenile delinquency that are known to
be available. Mention was made of “Crime,
Character and Education” by Sidney  Beer who
has initiated a National Crime Prevention Coun-
cil, with headquarters at 740 South Broadway
Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Further infor-
mation regarding- the Council may be secured
from Miss Mary Erma Wilson at this address.

Mr. Gerald J. Linares, Supervisor of Athletics
of the Recreation Commission, San Francisco,
told of what is known as the “Director at large”
plan which resulted from a survey of juvenile de—
linquency made at the request of the chief of
police of San Francisco. A city coordinating coun-
cil was formed of which the nucleus was the four
executives of {the schools, the recreation commis-
sion, the juvenile court, and the police depart—
ment. It subsequently resulted in the establish—
ment of three district councils in areas where
juvenile delinquency throve and the assignment of
a director—at—large to devote all of his time to
each of these three districts, his job being not
primarily the organization of activities but the re—
cruiting of children into already organized activi-
ties in the area. Thirty cases were referred to the
director—at-large a n d
twenty-eight w e r e,
within a few weeks,
successfully absorbed
in formal activities of
the agencies of the
district.

Milwaukee's Mayor be-°
lieves ’rha’r ’rhe ci’ry's low
crime ra’re is largely a’r-
+ribu+able ’ro fhe pre-
ven’rive wo rl< of fire
playgroundsI social cen-
+ers and similar agen-
cies. This ear an elec-
’rric sign lazing from
the ’rop of fire ’rower of
Ci’ry Hall announced
’rhe opening of fhe
social cen’rers.

406 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

Soft Ball Problems

By A. O. ANDERSON

Director, H ealtlz, Physical
Education and Recreation
Public Schools

Kansas City, M o.

VER a hundred men
0 and a few women
' attended this meet-
ing, presided over by Mr.
C. E. Brewer, Chairman
of the National Rules
Committee and Commis—
sioner of Recreation in
Detroit.

The general tone of this
meeting was very fine; the spirit of c00peration
prevailed and it seemed that all groups represented
there were anxious to cooperate with the national
rules committee in getting out and maintaining a
national set of rules for the guidance of this in-

creasingly popular sport. I think a great deal of

credit is due to Mr. Brewer for battling along for
the national rules against many 'odds when various
organizations wanted to get out their own rules.
It looks as if the battle is being won and they will
all cooperate in this one set of national rules.

The first part of the meeting was devoted to
the interpretation of rules and that was presided
over by none other than Hubert Johnson. He is
the official interpreter and I suggest that those of
you who have questions in regard to soft ball
rules and interpretations get in touch with Mr.
Johnson. He is with the Recreation Department
of Detroit. Then we had a report from Mr. John
Paling, Secretary of the American Soft Ball As-
sociation. He gave a very splendid report, and
among other things indicated that his association
had influenced over some 63,000 soft ball teams in
America. He made some suggestion in regard to
the change of rules. We also had a report from
the National Soft Ball Association, represented
by Philip Rossier. He did not give the number of
teams under his jurisdiction but he did make this
point of difference between the American Asso'-
ciation and the National. The National Associa-
tion, he said, was catering more to the more highly
skilled soft ball teams—that is, to the highest class
of soft ball teams—while the American Associa—
tion was putting their emphasis upon the mass
participation'in soft ball.

Next we came to the question of changes in the

 

As a further guide to Mil-
waukee's lighted school-
houses a poster on the
front of each street car
carried an invitation to
attend the centers.

rules. The general feel-
ing, of course, is that we
shouldn’t have very many
changes in the rules, par-
ticularly at this time. I
believe that represents the
sentiment. Mr. Brewer
sent out a questionnaire
regarding the proposed changes and made a re-
port on that. There were 104 replies. I will give
you a few of the returns.

Regarding the question of changing the rule on
stealing of bases, it was 91 to keep the rule as it is
and only six to make a change, so you see that is
rather unanimous. There is considerable agitation
about the question of the length of the bases, and
67 were in favor of the 60-foot base. Then came
24 who favored the 40-foot base. After that it
ranged all the way, from 40 to 50 and 75 feet.

Regarding the .pitching distance, there is some
agitation to change that. In this questionnaire 56
seemed to favor the present length of pitching
distance, 37’ 8”, but there were 20 out of this
group who favored the 40-foot pitching distance.
That is increasing it a little bit.

On the use of Spikes Mr. Brewer received 71
no’s. They wanted to retain the rule as it is.
Twenty—three wanted permission to use golf
spikes, and only nine requested that spikes be
used. The vote on the change of pitching rules
was 75 to zero for no change whatsoever.

This information‘ is from the questionnaire
alone. However, the meeting brought out some
differences of opinion with this questionnaire.
There seemed, for example, to be quite a good
deal of desire for changing the pitching distance
from 37’ 8” to 40’. There also seemed to be a
feeling that there should be only one standard
diamond. In the rule book there are two, the 45
and the 60. There was a rather prevalent senti-
ment that it be made 60 feet.

The.question of penalizing illegal pitching came
in for considerable discussion because some pitch-
ers are having a big advantage there. When there

 

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 407

is an illegal pitch there doesn’t seem to be any
real penalty, and the question of penalizing such
pitching is being agitated.

Then came up the question of using spiked
shoes and some reported that shoes with a short
spike were generally being used. In other cities
they have agreed to use no spikes at all. How-
ever, there seems to be this argument in favor of
some form of a spiked shoe. In playing at night
and where there is grass and dew and dampness,
without some type of spike or cleat there is a good
deal of slipping and consequent injuries.

The question was raised regarding the composi-
tion of the official ball. When you go to buy a
baseball from any manufacturer most of them are
marked “official,” and this label means nothing.
There is some agitation here that perhaps in addi-
tion to the measurement and weight of the ball
there should also be some statement as to what
goes into the make Up of the official ball, I believe
a request is to be made of manufacturers that they
get together and specify the composition of the
official ball.

On the question of the use of these rules by
girls, some who expressed themselves felt that
girls could use these rules and possibly could even
use the increased pitching distance. I don’t know
what the girls want to do. However, girls in in-
dustrial leagues and similar groups seem to be
using these national rules, and of course there
should be some get-together on that problem.

Keeping Leisure Free from Regimenta’rion

By J. M. ARTMAN

Editor, Character .

R. CHARLES H. JUDD of the University of
Chicago, chairman of this session, opened
the meeting by stating that spontaneity is

necessary in recreation. He suggested the group
might discuss in how far recreation is being rou-
tinized to destroy this spontaneity.

Mr. Charles English of Philadelphia the first
discussion leader, stated that formerly in nearly
all of our recreation we had our programs so fixed
that when we sent our leaders out they would
say, “Open at nine o’clock; at 9 :05 have flag rais-
ing; at ten do something else.” We are moving
very far from that.at the present time and we are
developing very much more initiative. He brought
out a point that was very important. The child
simply will not respond to this routinizing, whether

you like it or not, and therefore we needn’t be
too much afraid of enforced regimentation.
Another very interesting point was brought out
——-that of the self-generating group. In Philadel-
phia they offered to provide leadership for any
small, self—organized group interested in a par-
ticular activity, either from within the group or
from outside. They discovered that this self-gen-
erated group lasted longer and had a more perma-
nent interest than any which the workers organ-

ized. Mr. English suggested that in the question '

of regimentation or non-regimentation you do,
after all, have to organize certain things, and un-
less you organize you go “willy-nilly,” so it may
be well to baseactivities on the philosophy, not
of regimentation, but of being on the job with
organization.

On the question as to the effect emergency pro-
grams are having, Mr. English gave the sugges-
tion that the leadership picked up as it is, and
brought together as it is, requires rather strong,
aggressive pr0gramizing on the part of the leader
at the head of it all, and here, perhaps, a benevol-
ent dictatorship was rather wise.

Mr. Max Hirsch of Cincinnati also took the
theme of regimentation over against freedom of
action and defined regimentation as the machine
type of action, the forcing of yourself or any in-
dividual to do the same thing all the time with-
out shift or change. He does not feel that we are
tending toward regimentation in this country. He
used as an illustration the various types of things
offered in the parks of Chicago. It is probable,
he believes, that the very versatility of action
which_we are making possible is itself breaking
down any possibility of regimentation. He spoke
of community singing in a rather interesting way,
however, as being one of the regimentations that
we might take a look at. In Cincinnati they are
getting away from community singing.

Mr. J. J. Syme of Canada also spoke on regi-
mentation. He said that people like to work to-
gether and we ought to‘ have such leadership as
will reveal to them how to work and live to-
gether without taking away initiative. He pointed
out that organization is not necessarily regimen-
tation.

Then we had a discussion from the fioor which
brought out three or four very interesting obser-
vations. One was to the effect that when you or-
ganize around friendship groups you have a very
much finer and more lasting organization than
when you organize around interests. This was

408 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

confirmed by another member. Mr. Locke, from
the Park District in Chicago, pointed out that
the individuals in a certain group he knew of
seemed to have no particular interests. The
leader, however. was interested in archery and
around that person there developed a very fine
group.

Then we had the story of an experiment in
which the children were turned loose, rather in
cafeteria style, to find what they wanted to do.
Activities consisted almost entirely of athletics,
and music and other art interests dwindled to
practically no numbers at all. So there is need for
organization that gives a balanced diet. Dr. Judd
told us about a child sent to a progressive school
who said to the teacher, “Illust we do what we
want to today?”

We closed the meeting by calling on our friend
Lorado Taft who, relative to the matter of mak-
-ing choices without guidance, told us a story of
sending a group of children from New York
City out into the country and the leader said to
them, “Now here you are out in the great open
spaces. Just do what you want to do.” They
played craps. °

Nature Activities and Gardening As New
Areas of Life Enrichment

By WILLIAM G. VINAL

S pcciafist in Nature Activities
National Recreation Association

HOEVER assigned this topic had a sly way of
tucking this word “new” in, and evidently

had the “low—down” on recreation directors!

Dr. Ralph A. Van Meter of Massachusetts State,
the chairman, opened the meeting by saying that
in the town of Amherst, which has six thousand
population, they have seven nature outing clubs.
In spite of the fact that the
town has two well-known c01-
leges with many scientists,’ the
scientists found great difficulty
in making their subject intel—
ligible to the rest of the people.
The first speaker was Mrs.
Fae Huttenlocher, Secretary
of the Junior Garden Clubs of
America, and associated with
the Home and Garden maga—
zine. She said that the Junior
Garden Club made a survey of
20,000,000 public school chil-

"The more of nature recreation with-
in us the less essential are worldly
goods. All one requires is a lake. a
forest. a mountain. or perhaps a sea
beach' a dunel and a meadow. Swim-
mingl hilting and outdoor cooking are
not expensive. . . . He who neglects
training in the inexpensive way may
be storing up for an expensive future.
Grow up with the simple life and
store up riches for future happiness.
It is a kind of insurance for the emer-
gencies of the future."—Wiffiam G.
Vina! in the Cosmopolitan Maga-
zine, May I935.

dren and found that only one—tenth were having
any contact at all, through the public schools, with
nature and gardening activities. The Garden Club
has given greater opportunity to these boys and
girls and has an enrollment of half a million. They
do not recommend saying that you have to have a
garden of certain dimensions, but they let the
group start where they are interested. For in-
stance, a group of women wanted a garden club
and the first" thing they asked for was a lesson in
flower arrangement. Fortunately, the leader was
not a technician or a pedagogue, or the wrong
kind, anyway, and she started from the viewpoint
of the group. Children, she said, can tell auto-
mobiles by the radiator caps from long distances;
they enjoy that game, and they might enjoy recog—
nizing trees from a long distance. She also said
that since women have taken to smoking cigar-
ettes forest fires have increased 50 per cent.
Nature fairs have been held with .garden club
women for judges, and Republicans and Demo-

crats have come together in a worthy, peace-time
pursuit!

Dr. E. A. Prichard, Supervisor of Emergency
Conservation in the northwestern territory, told
us of teaching Indians how to camp. That only
goes to show how far we have degenerated in this
nature activity! He referred to the antagonism‘
for nature study which has been built up in the
schools. and he thinks that we have the school
tcchnocrats to thank for that. He says that the
Indians have a fine way of teaching their children.
Nature is full of symbolism and Indians know it.
Possibly this is the way to successful leadership,
taking us out of ourselves.

Mr. L. H. \Veir thinks that the conditions in
schools are typical of conditions everywhere. Two
years ago he made some interesting observations
in Germany. Here they have no defacing of pub—
lic grounds and parks, and they
don’t have to pick up banana
skins the next morning. In—
quiring how that came about,
he learned that two educa-
tional movements are factors
—home culture and nature
culture. They consider the
school as a club house and the
program is developed out of
experiences. In Germany prac-
tically every persons is an em-
bryonic naturalist with a pas—
sionate love for nature. They

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 409

have great parks, formal gardens and school bo-
tanical gardens. In the school botanical gardens
there are two sections; one of them takes in the
plants of the world—the North American section,
for instance—which has the flowers and shrubs
and trees that the child may read about. In charge
of this botanical garden is a director who‘ is under
the auspices of the Board of Education. They
have children’s zoos, and a section of the, big zoo
devoted to children, resembles an old-fashioned
barnyard. In it they have lambs, a cow with a
calf, a goat with a kid, a sow with pigs, and they
have a miniature town in which they have houses
with guinea pigs. They also have a monkey pen

.and all the equipment that you would have on a

modern playground. They have a stable of ponies,
a riding ring, and then they have a food supply
where a boy can get a bottle of milk with a nip—
ple and go out and feed the animals. There is also
a section for native wild animals.

The possibilities of a children’s 200 have already
been considered by West Chicago. In Rhode
Island they have an inSect zoo and 40,000 people
paid ten cents to see it last year.

I am reminded of the story of the boy from the
rookeries of Manhattan who was sent to Palisade
Park. He had no sooner gotten out of the bus
for his two weeks’ vacation than he looked around
and said, “This is a hell of a place, with no street
to play in.” If we look at some of our city play-
grounds we are impelled to feel that the people
who were responsible for the playgrounds in the
past must have thought in a similar fashion to the
boy from Manhattan. They must have said, “This
is a hell of a playground with all these trees in
the' way,” and that is the reason we have so many
baldhead playgrounds 110w throughout America.

The closing theme of the meeting was that we
need trained leadership; that recreation directors
are willing to put on this activity if they can only

find the leaders.

Recreation in Connection with Industrial Plants

By J. E. WALTERS

Director of Personnel
Purdue University

HE DISCUSSION of recreation and industry was
led by Mr. Walter W. Wood, Recreation
Director, Owen-Illinois Glass Company. It
was rather exciting at times, and during the dis—
cussion something was brought out about the

choice of different activities for employees to par—
ticipate in, and I thought of a story about Lloyd'
George when he was a young boy. His father
wanted to know what he should do with him, or
what he should take as his life work, so he de-
cided upon a scheme of putting in the room with
the boy some paint, a nickel, a Bible, and an apple.
He decided to go out of the room and when he
came back if the boy were painting, he would be
an artist; if he were reading the Bible, he would
be a minister; if eating the apple, an agriculturist;
and, if playing with the nickel or putting it into
his pocket, he would be a Financier. He did this,
and when he came back, 10 and behold! young
Lloyd George was sitting on the Bible, eating the
apple, and painting the nickel! So he decided that
his son would be a statesman.

And so it is, in the choice of recreational ac—
tivities for employees; they are all statesmen in
recreational activities. But in this discussion there
were two phases of it: One, cooperation within
industry itself among the different departments
and different plants, and the other, cooperation
between industrial concerns and municipal or
state recreation commissions. Those two types
were brought out rather distinctly, with the fun-
damental assumption something like this; that
within the company the company wants the em—
ployee to be more efficient when he comes to
work in the morning than he was when he left
the plant the night before. Speaking even from a
“profit” viewpoint, I think that is an excellent
goal to obtain—that all employees shall be more
efficient when they come to work than when they
left it the day before. Next was pUre amuse-
ment for the employee, giving him some recrea-
tive activity so that he can amuse himself and
enjoy himself more than if he did not have that
activity; and, thirdly, the broad increase of hap-
piness in the industrial world.

I think that with those three assumptions we
can consider a few of the different company ac—
tivities as well as the inter-company activities.
One point was brOUght out by Mr. Conner of the
Goodyear Company. They maintain a two mil-
lion dollar recreation building and have some
eighteen different types of activity which they
carry on. I thought his goal particularly helpful in

that he said he believed in two things—the actual
participation of every employee, and achievement

in the particular activity in which he is inter—
ested. He also emphasized that in an industrial

410

concern you could not spoon-feed employees. You
have to start with what they are interested in and
then develop the activity from that interest. That
seemed to me to be a whole-hearted attitude on the
part of the company. He gave as an example the
fact that 2,100 of his employees had taken out
fishing licenses and started a fishing club. Dur-
ing the winter they practised bait casting and
trolling of flies and the 2,100 increased as time
went on. That gives you an example of the
plant activity.

The example of inter-plan cooperation, or rather
of a number of plants cooperating, was given
by Mr. Petrill of the Industrial Mutual AssOcia-
tion, Flint, Michigan. Ten companies, Buick,
Chevrolet and eight others cooperated in their
activities from a recreation vieWpoint. They
divided their activities into four different classes:
first, amusement; second, social; third, cultural,
and, fourth, athletic. They emphasized the need
of a well—rounded and broad program, not just
the athletic program as maintained in some com-
panies. In the Industrial Mutual Association in
Flint they have participating each week in some
recreational activity over I 5,000 employees of the
ten different companies. That was to me a rather
staggering number.

That gives you some idea of what is being done
between industrial concerns. Something was
brought out about the workers connected with the
Industrial Mutual Association. They have six
full-time workers and 250 volunteer recreation
workers among the employees themselves. That
seemed to.hit upon a trend in industrial concerns
of having the employees actively manage and run
their own recreational activities.

Then another phase of the program was the co-
operation between the industrial concerns and the
communities. A number of examples were brought
out. One in which a company financed the com-
munity recreation program, such as at Midland,
Michigan, was brought out by Mr. Shipps of the
Dow Chemical.Company. A number of programs
were mentioned, defining what the city recreation
commission or the director could do in the matter
of cooperation among companies. The programs
that were described were those of Cincinnati,
Greensboro, North Carolina, Oakland and Detroit.

There seemed to be a little battle for a few
minutes about whether the city recreation director
had a broader outlook than the industrial recrea—
tion director. We had a few spats back and forth
but I think it brought out the fact that possibly

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

both should have their ideals more fully estab-
lished, that their objectives should be more fully
defined. In the end it was brought out that recre-
ational activity in industrial concerns had increased
even in spite of the depression and mention was
made of the National Recreation Association In-
dustrial Bulletin No. 9 which showed that there
was at least a twelve percent increase in indus-
trial recreation activities since 1929. That seemed
to emphasize the fact that industrial recreation is
on the increase, even in spite of the depression,
and if you can show me a business that thrived
during the depression, I can show you a business
that has a lasting appeal to the people by whom it
is being carried on.

It was concluded that if industrial recreation is
going to increase we must have wise leadership
such as is given by the National Recreation As-

sociation.

What Is a Sound Arts and Crafts Program
for a Recreation Department

By FRANK A. STAPLES

Director, League of Arts and Crafts
Concord, New Hampshire

arts and crafts discussion group which point—

ed very directly to a tremendous increase in

the interest. in the arts, a tremendous growth, a
tremendous spread, which means, whether you like
it or not, you are going to have to think about the
arts and crafts in your own programs and your
own cities. You are going to have to do something
about it, and the question is, are you going to think
it through so that you will give something that will
be worth while to the individuals participating, or
are you going to just let it pass and do a poor job.
It is going to hit yoq and you have got to take it
and struggle with it, and I hope that you will
struggle and win. You will, if you think about it.
One of the most important factors in that
meeting seemed to me the general and almost 100
per cent feeling that we have got to have stand-
ards in arts and crafts. Too long have we been
aimlessly shifting about; too long have we used
it as a fill—in with no objectives, no standards.
consequently not getting anywhere. That isn’t
universal because there are places where very fine
programs have been established. But the feeling of
the meeting was that we have got to think of it in
terms of standards; we have got' to think of it in

THERE WERE some things outstanding in the

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 411

terms of the development of a sequence 'of prob-
lems and programs which will be of worthwhile
use to these individuals.

This means that we have to think of the prin-
ciples underlying arts and crafts, not with the
purpose of making craftsmen out of these peo-

l ple, but to give them a background, a funda-—
l mental feeling of what should be done to fit this
program into their lives that they may be better
citizens and get more out of life. We have missed
i that point quite a bit.
The general impression was that we have too
many crafts teachers who are untrained. That
i means that we have got to think about that prob-
. lem and see that we get some sort of adequate
. training for the individuals who have to handle
this crafts problem—~—a very vital thing, and, of
course, the backbone of the
whole structure if we wish to
succeed.

lationship in a crafts program. In this.case it
happened to be the making of Christmas gifts and

other gifts for a certain very definite need.
There was too much time taken on one par-
ticular subject, but it was evident that because of
all that time and interest it is worth mentioning.
That was the selling of handicraft. The group
voted 100 per cent that there should be selling of
handicraft if it fitted in with the program and
there was a reason—to help economic or family
conditions. One point, however, that was brought
out, was vital, and that was that unless you know
what you are doing there is great danger of your
recreation program becoming a commercialized
program. If you know how to handle the situa-
tion the deve10pment of sales can go on and can
[it very definitely into the needs of the recreation
program, because there is no

doubt that we have to consider
all sides of life and the bread-

The idea of pleasure, of
self-expression al 0 n e, w a s
brought out, and the question
whether that is enough. The
consensus was that it isn’t
enough. Some people might
express themselves but express
themselves very badly; they
need to be directed, to be

"In the new centers for leisure-
time activities, people turn to
the manual arts now with a l<ind
of hunger. Ballted in their ef-
fort to improve their environ-
ment through buying things,

their hands itch to male some-
thing. to grasp what they want
in life with hands of sl<ill. For
men, especially. the various
crafts bring a great release."
—Marjorie Barstow Greenbie

and-butter side is one of them.
Supplementing incomes is very
necessary in some cases. How-
ever, instead of starting by
thinking of making things to
sell, why not start with the
point of view of rehabilitat-
ing the home? Make things
for the home, and then if those

guided, so that whatever that
expression is there will be
something sound and worth
while in it. So self-expression,
or free expression, unless guided indirectly, seems
to be, judging from the discussion a thing not to
do. Let us have 0111‘ self-expression and yet see
that it is controlled and that there are some ob-
jectives and some ideas behind it. If you have a
program built around certain fundamental prin-
ciples that will come.

There was discussion also in regard to the
seeming need for the separation of this activity
for men and women, because men and women
were interested in different things in the handi—
craft program. The people in our meeting thought
that as far as possible there should be no division.
If there are men and women and boys and girls
interested in the same type of craft, let them
work together because of their common interest.
There was one very interesting example given of
a community that had developed a program so
that whole families, the mother, the father, and
the children were brought into close working re-

in The Arts of Leisure.

 

individuals h a v e developed
skill and want to carry this on
as a side issue to supplement
their incomes, that is per-
fectly all right; but let’s not forget the danger of
commercialism and lose our point of view of real
recreation in regard to the arts and crafts be-
cause there is great temptation for the American
people to wish to make all the money they can.

Standards of Training. and Experience in
Community Recreation Worl<

By FLOYD ROWE

Director, Department of Physical Welfare
Board of Education, Cleveland, Ohio

EARING NUMBER I of the Committee on
H Training and Experience in Community
Recreation Work was presided over by Tam
Deering, Stiperintendent of Recreation in Cin-
cinnati.
Mrs. Minnette Brodke Spector of Los Angeles,
representing George Hjelte, chairman of the

412 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 1

original committee, expressed
the thought, in referring to the
report drawn up a number of
years ago, that while no docu-
ment five years old dealing
with standards of training, de-
finitions of positions and with
questions of salary would be
found to meet present-day sit—
uations, revision at this time
could only mean revision
downward. Such a revision,
in Mr. Hjelte’s Opinion, would not be for the best
interests of recreation or of pe0ple interested in
recreation. He therefore counselled going slowly.

The question was raised as to whether or not
there should be a recognition of the emergency
situation in terms of a definition of positions of
workers assigned to recreation under some of the
governmental agencies. Taking up the question of
terminology, agreement seemed fairly unanimous
that the terms “superintendent,” “supervisor,”
“director” and “assistant director” were adequate
and fairly satisfactory. The next term, “play
leader,” however, proved to be the end of this
unanimity,.one recreation executive describing the
term as “sappy.” After considerable exchange of
ideas from the floor, it became apparent that the
meeting was slowly bogged down over a matter
of minutia, as Tam Deering described it. He sum-
marized the situation by saying that our concep-
tion had enlarged over the past five years and
some changes in terminology were therefore
indicated.

During the course of the discussion a number
of representatives of educational institutions in—
terested in teacher training of physical education
majors indicated a desire for light regarding the
matter of curriculum additions which would bet-
ter equip physical educators to discharge the
duties of recreation leaders. Unfortunately time
was not available for an adequate discussion of
this topic.

V. K. Brown of the Chicago Park District ex-
panded the theory of smattering knowledge ver-
sus intensive skill and specialization on the part
of play leaders, saying that conditions have chang-
ed much more rapidly than has personnel. Charles
B. Cranford of New York University pointed out
that Mr. Brown spoke from the viewpoint of a
large city and asked for an application of the

highly specialized staff to the small community.
At this point John Fox, Jr. of Millburn, New

"Leadership which will bring creative
self-release for the followers is a pro-
found need for our day—and in the
public service peculiarly. But to cre-
ate this leadershipI we shall have to
train our executives to see this role
in a fresh light. Moreover. we shall
have to modify the present structure
of organizations to make them more
truly democratic instruments."——Ord—
way Tend in Public Management,
September I935.

Jersey, asked the rude if point- I

ed question: “What kind of

an animal is a recreation lead-

er anyway?” and inquired fur- I
ther whether qualified workers

were being sumciently encour-

aged to continue in the field.

K. Mark Cowen of Roanoke,

Virginia, voiced a little of the

futility of proper training with

the positions in the recreation

field so difficult to secure. HeI
very definitely raised the question as to the place

in the community of the recreation workers.‘
Others at the meeting raised questions such asII
“Why is additional training given when many.
who have been trained are without acceptable as-

signment at this time P” Time did not permit of

further discussion of this t0pic.

Dorothy Enderis concluded the meeting with a
bit of honest philosophy growing out of the
wealth of her rich experience. She said: “Train-l
ing and growth in service are desirable. Those.
now in executive positions hold in their hands the
fate of the' future of the recreation movement by
the selection of those entering the servic at this
time.” . I

How Can Adequate Standards for Recreation
Personnel Be Secured and Maintained? 'I

By TAM DEERING

Director of Recreation
Cincinnati, Ohio

US'I‘ BEFORE our Congress this year there was
J appointed a committee on Training and Ex-
perience in Community Recreation \NorkJ
This committee was asked to take the bulletin is-
sued in 1930 by the committee previously ap-
pointed and to hear testimony from this group
here today, all those at the Congress and those
throughout the copntry, in an effort to determine
whether or not a new bulletin should be issued.

I hope that you will take seriously the invitation
of the National Recreation Association in asking
you to be cooperators in any changes that may be
made. The work of the committee, as I under—

stand it, will go on during the coming year.

At our discussion, which represented the sec-
ond hearing of the committee, the first speaker
was G. Lyle Belsley, the director of the Civil
Service Assembly of the United States and Can-
ada. He made the point that government is grow—
ing complex; it is taking over functions requiring
a high degree of professional training for per-
formance of the staff; that recreation is increas-

l

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 413

ineg recognized as a governmental function re-
quiring the employment of skilled field workers,
and that the objective is to obtain a better per-
sonnel and to continue this personnel in office if
it proves efficient and displays a capacity for im-
provement, regardless of the change in political
parties in control. Formal selection of some sort
is necessary. Properly organized Civil Service
offers the best solution to date for selection. re-
tention and promotion of the best qualified
personnel.

C. E. Brewer, Commissioner of Recreation in
Detroit, listed some of the advantages of Civil
Service:

The method of inductiOn is an advantage. The
department head is privileged to sit in during the
examination and that makes the arrangement as
good as though the department head himself con-
ducted the examination.

The comparatively high age and educational
qualifications required eliminate many applicants
whose sole qualifications seem to be, “I am deeply
interested in children” or “I need a job.”

Again, Civil Service eliminates outside pressure
from political sources and “friends” who are per-
haps almost as omnipresent. (The department
head need only say, “You must apply to the Civil
Service and pass the examination”) It protects
the employee doing good work; gives him a sense
of security which is desirable for doing good
work, and protects from the spoils system. The
Civil Service employee is free from the curse of
making contributions to any source, enforced con-
tributions, either political or otherwise,'to hold his
job. An employee may be discharged for making
or taking up a political collection, or for cam-
paigning or otherwise aiding in political cam-
paigns.

The Civil Service employee feels that he has a
better chance of being promoted on his own abil—I
ity ; he has the right to appeal to the Civil Service
Commissioner if he feels unjustly treated.

Mr. Brewer also listed certain disadvantages,
among them the following: The separation of the
employees is often very difficult, particularly if
the members of the commission feel that their
primary function is to protect the employee
against the department head. Civil Service rules
that all applicants must be residents for one year
prevent the department from securing the serv-
ices of echient people outside the city. The only
time Civil Service will waive residence rule is
when the department head can convince them that

the talent cannot be secured from within the city.
That is sometimes difficult, especially in a period
of depression. The lull of security which the
Civil Service employee has sometimes results in
stagnation or dry rot of the employee, although
if this happens the division or department head
may be to blame. Refusal of Civil Service to sus—
tain the department head in cases of dismissal
makes it dichult to maintain discipline. The de-
partment head should be sustained unless it can
be proven that the employee was dismissed for
political, religious, or for reasons other than the
good of the service.

Mr. Brewer concluded that in spite of the dis-
advantages, efficient personnel can be seCUred
through Civil Service if the recreation executive
is willing to cooporate with the Civil Service Com-
mission and keep in close touch with them.

The next speaker was Thomas W. Lantz, Su-
perintendent of Recreation at Reading, Pennsyl—
vania, who explained the operation of their sys—
tem, which essential may be stated as being an
arrangement whereby the superintendent conducts
the examination rather than any other part of the
civil government, the additional feature being the
ability to release unsatisfactory workers without
the formality of a Civil Service hearing. How-
ever, Mr. Lantz described one~situation where he
said a single slip would have destroyed the whole
per'sonnel structure, which raised some question
as to the permanence of the arrangement and as
to whether or not sufficient time could be given
the commissioner or director to develop the per-
sonnel technique, and so on.

F. S. Mathewson, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Union County Park Commission, Elizabeth,
New Jersey, made a strong plea for certification
differing from Civil Service in that it became a
state rather than a local function. It was pointed
out that the state now exercised the function of
granting certification to many groups, including
doctors, lawyers, and even barber and beauty par-
lor operators. Why not dignify the profession of
recreation director by state certification?

There was considerable discussion, and the
opinion was very strongly along the following
lines: that if “free trade” of Civil Service per-
sonnel between cities could be established; if the
present Civil service standards could be raised
and the feature of the Reading system of the right
of dismissal of an unsatisfactory worker could be
included, then all would agree that the situation
would be greatly improved.

414 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

Whaf Have rhe Emergency Agencies Confribufed
to the Progress of fhe Recreafion Movement?

By ALFRED K. STERN

Chairman
Illinois State Housing Board

“in.

HE CHAIRMAN of this session was Lee Han-

mer, Director of the recreation department,

Russell Sage Foundation. He outlined the
presentation by dividing the subject into three
parts: One, facilities; two, their operation; and,
three, the consolidating of gains already made and
looking forward to the future.

James Mulholland, Director of_Recreation, De-
partment of Parks, New York, was the first
speaker. He described the very expansive con-
solidated park project in the City of New York
under the direction of Robert Moses, a tremend-
ous undertaking which they have carried on there
for a short period of time with the help of relief
funds and local funds. He mentioned the exten-
sive facilities that have been provided—81 new
playgrounds in the last year and a half ; 120 plan-
ned for the coming year. Nine swimming pools
have been constructed in the City of New York
and two new golf courses for public use. He told
about the use of park areas for active rather than
passive recreation. There are nineteen play areas
for small children in Central Park, on the peri-
phery of the park. He described what they pre-
fer to call social dancing that goes On in the park.
At one of these affairs they had 4,000 people
participating. They have dramatics and festivals
which give that active rather than passive recrea-
tion benefit. He described the day camps in the
outlying sections of the city where the children
are taken free by the utility transportation in the
hours when there is a low ebb of paid customers.
He told of the kindergartens that are conducted
in the field houses. Those of you who were in
N ew; York City last year will appreciate what at-
tractive buildings have been put up there‘by' work
relief labor under the supervision of this park
system. In these buildings they have places for
mothers to leave their children where they will be
given adequate care and recreation during the
period of the day when they are busy at work on
other pursuits. '

Mr. Mulholland said that the public of the City
of New York is solidly behind this enlarged rec-
reation program. They plan to‘ go forward. They
see no reason why there should be any let-up'in

the financing of this from an operating point of
view from the local public fund, I take it. At
least I hope so. °

Uarda F. Newsom told'of her work in Kansas
where she is Superintendent of the Leisure Time
Activities of the Kansas Emergency Relief Com-
mittee. It was a most remarkable story of the re-
sourcefulness and ingenuity of people in the face
of what would seem to be insurmountable handi-
caps. She described the arid, drOUght~ridden,
wind-blown Kansas stretches without trees, with-
out water, but with a lot of folks, native and for—
eign-born, who are attempting to work out a live-
lihood under tremendous handicaps. There was
an almost complete lack of facilities. The wood
supply was very scarce, and wood, as you all ap-
preciate, is important in handicraft work. They
had to make their own game materials and sport-
ing things. They used all kinds of scraps and
waste materials, substituting for wood mica from
the ground there.

They waited for a local reSponse. Of course,
that had been cultivated, but they didn’t go.into
a community and superimpose something on them,
and as Miss N ewsom said, they begged, borrowed,
or stole, if necessary. The horse and buggy days
have been described as what we might go back
to; they are at the horse and buggy days as far as
recreation in concerned in Kansas. I am convinced
from what Miss Newsom told us that they have
made a tremendous jump forward. They have 73
playgrounds that have been developed in the state;
1500 workers have been functioning in 400 com-
munities. A thousand of these workers, since the
work relief has been cut off, have continued to
function without pay, which indicates the kind of
spirit and interest they have.

The whole program expresses great possibili-
ties for a recreation program without nearly what
they have in New York City in the way of financ-
ing, organized set-up, and that, in some respects,
is a very wholesome eXpression both on the part
of the workers and on the part of those who are
participating—not to depreciate what they are do-
ing in New York. They are helping people to dis-
cover themselves.

JosephinevRandall, Superintendent of the Rec-
reation Commission of San Francisco, summariz-
ed some of the things that they have done which
are very admirable. They have constructed facili- ‘
ties and moved along recreation for a generation,
just during these past several years. Miss Randall
feels that the present status of recreation has

made possible studies and understanding of prob-
lems that we have not had before.
In summarizing, here are a few of the contri-

butions of emergency agencies to the recreation

movement :

I. More playgrounds, play fields, field houses,
swimming and wading pools, bathing beaches.

p a r k s, picnic
and ca m p i n g
grounds, than
we would have
secured in a
generation or
more u n d e r
normal condi-
tions.

2.. Greatly in-
creased person-
nel in the ad-
ministration of
recreational ac-
tivities.

3. Extensive
training and
practical ex-
p e ri e n ce fo r
many p e o p l e
who will be in
position to help
carry on the en-
larged facilities
and programs,
either as paid
or volunteer
workers.

4. A nation
made more rec-
creation-con s-
cious as a back-
g r o u n d f o r
larger partici—
pation in satis-
fying free-time
activities a n d

provision for their support as necessary public
and private services.

5. The development of ingenious and practical
plans for carrying on activities with limited re-

sources.

6. The development of practical plans for rec-
reation programs in rural areas, and their accept-
ance by country people unaccustomed to organ-°

ized recreation.

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

415

7. The necessity of facing the problem of ti-
nancing greatly enlarged recreation programs and
the maintenance and operation of extensive facil-
ities. (This situation is being helped by special

publicity concerning recreatiOn opportunities and

 

One of the recent proiects in San Francisco is typical of the many
contributions made by relief agencies to physical facilities in the
recreation field. An old miniature golf course was turned over to
the Recreation Commission. Through the use of relief labor this
has been made into an attractive play area. The section shown in
the photograph is being equipped with horseshoe pitching courts.
The beautiful stone wall which appears in the second picture was
made from old material found on the golf course. The workers
took great pride in the transformation effected.

 

broader aspect; such as:
a. The C.C.C. Camps.

needs, made possible by the use of writers, artists
and publicity eXperts whose services have been

made available
by the emergen-
cy agencies.)
8. The beau—
tification of our
play areas, pub-
lic grounds and
other common

possessions.

9. The devel—
opment of bet—
ter roads a n (1
other means of
making the rec-
reation a r e a s
more easily ac—
cessible.

IO. The closer
integration of
recreation and
education to
the end that
education may
have a larger
part in trainingr
for the whole-
some use of
free time, and
that recreation
programs may
include a wider
range of cul-
tural values.

II. The es—
tablishment of
continuing gov-

“ ernmentalagen-
cies that will be concerned with recreation in its

2). The National Youth Administration.

6. The Committee on Youth problems 'of the'
U. S. OHice of Education.

d. The commission recently organized by the

American Council of Education for a five

41o SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

year study of youth problems, financed by a
foundation grant of $800,000.

3. Provision in the Federal Housing Program
for the consideration of plans for community
recreation activities.

Clubs for Girls and Women

EA D. TAYLOR of the Chicago Commons pre—

L sided over this meeting which considered
various types of clubs and their activities.

Mrs. Minnette B. Spector, Supervisor, Depart-
ment of Playground and Recreation, Los An—
geles, cited the many opportunities ,the pres-
sent—day girl has for membership in clubs pro-
moted by schools, playgrounds, recreational-
educational organizations and church groups
and spoke of their values. Confronted with the
need for a club which girls could join at little
or no expense but which would provide the
opportunity for self—expression, for acquiring
skills, for social intercourse and all-round de-
velopment offered by some of the National
organizations, the Los Angeles Department of
Playground and Recreation in 1929 initiated
the Lamp Club (the name being formed from
the initial letters of Los Angeles municipal
playgrounds).’These clubs, intended for girls
over ten years of age, are organized by the
individual playground director in charge of
girls’ and women’s activities, and weekly meet-
ings are conducted by the officers elected from

the club membership. The merit system of‘

achievement is used in awarding honors and

ranks are divided into three groups: Key'

holder, Lamplighter, and Lamp bearer. The
activities of the club program include health,
home-making, cooking, hostess duties, handi-
crafts, nature crafts, sewing, literature, citi-
zenship, first aid, musical activities, dramatics,
dancing, gardening, and volunteer leadership.
Under each activity project is a list of require—
ments in the manual with a complete biblio-
graphy for helpful procedure. Camping is one
of the activities, and each summer one of the
girls’ camps maintained by the
department is given over to
Lamp Club outings for one or
two weeks. The total cost of
the outing is $3.00 per week
per girl.

The,results of the club pro-
gram measured in terms of

No formal summary of the meeting
on Clubs for Girls and Women was
presented, but so many requests
have been received for a resume
of the papers and discussions that
we are publishing this brief re—
port of some of the facts given.

physical, mental, social and spiritual growth to
individual members have more than justified

the club venture.

Efforts in behalf of girls reach their highest
peak, however, when there is a unified city-
wide council interested in girls’ welfare. Los
Angeles has such a c0uncil composed of rep-
resentatives from thirty-nine recreational-edu-
cational agencies, P. T. A.’s, libraries, settle—
ments, women’s clubs and similar groups. The
council serves as a clearing house for all girls’
groups. It has made studies of activities for
girls and has disseminated information of in—
terest to all. One of the outstanding achieve-
ments has been a yearly conference on Twen—
tieth Century Girlhood designed to help create
a better understanding of the modern girl. It
also conducts an annual leadership training
course with a purpose of inspiring young wo—
men to train for leadership; to give leaders a
practical knowledge of program materials, and
to enrich the qualities of leadership. Lectures
and demonstrations make up these courses.

In Milwaukee, Margaret Sykes of the Ex-
tension Department of the Public Schools
pointed out, they have clubs which grow in-
formally from a group asking for a place to
meet, a leader and equipment. They .also have
the more formal type in which a program is set
up and girls are invited to participate. The
former type is more common to settlements
than public agencies, though it has been suc-
cessfully developed in Milwaukee.

Said Mabel Madden, Supervisor, Community
Activities, Cincinnati Public Recreation Com—
mission: “Whether your club is organized by
going to some street corner where girls are
loaflng and coaxing them into joining basket-
ball games in a community center or whether
it is the kind which has hand picked member-
ship of girls who come asking for facilities, a
club is an organization with igreat possibilities
for good., No matter what the purpose of the

club is, the girls are coming together because
of some need in their lives, real

or imagined. Leaders must find
“these needs, diagnose them and
try to meet them.” For younger
girls Cincinnati has a program
of girls’ week, hobby shows,
games and general interest, with

( C onh‘mred on page 425)

When Christmas Comes

AST WINTER all over the conntry thousands of
‘ L people made their Christmas gifts in classes
' provided by recreation departments and simi-
lar groups.

Christmas Toy Shops

“Christmas in five weeks!” was the warning
issued in Santa Barbara, California. “Make your
gifts and put something of yourself into them.
You can learn before Christmas to block or line
print your own cards; to make a charming bag of
embroidery; to design smart, colorful dress acces-
sories; to model Mexican pottery; to enlarge 21

'family grotip or snap shot; to knit a scarf or
sweater or suit.”

There were no expenses connected with the
classes except for materials.

In Milwaukee, \Visconsin, the Extension De—
partment of the Public Schools from November
5th to December 14th provided Santa Claus work—
shops at the social centers. A mimeographed sheet
was issued giving
the schedule of clas—

“Santa Claus workshops,” read the invitation,
“offer you help in filling the Christmas stockings
of your children with attractive, inexpensive toys
made from scrap material at little or no cost!

“The Milwaukee Public Schools’ Extension De—
partment invites parents and older sisters and

brothers to Social Center Toy \Vorkshops to make,

toys and games. Patterns and directions for mak—
ing the same will be available.

“Bring pasteboard boxes, crayons, pencil, scis—
sors, scraps of muslin or cotton cloth and pieces
of old knit underwear with you and the Toy
Maker will help you transform them into wonder—
ful toys.”

From a bulletin issued by the National Federa-
tion of Settlements comes a note regarding a
Christmas workshop held'in a settlement. Long
work tables and chairs were set up in a large
room. At one end were two supply tables and
above these on the wall was a large chart contain-
ing the names of the articles that could be made,

materials necessary,
and the cost of the

sesand extending an At the Christmas shops in the Chicago park centers there finished articles,

invitation to attend. were classes in clay modelingl silk dyeing, toy and doll
making, honeycomb weaving, rug making and leather tooling

Samples of com-

 

Courtesy Chicago Park District

417

418 WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES

pleted articles were display-
ed around the room. There
were leaders at each table to
help the girls.

And everywhere t h e r e
were shops for recondition-
° ing old toys collected through
schools and other sources to
be given children whose par-
ents had little money to spend
on toys. These toys were
made as good as new by
eager volunteers—some of
them in homes for the aged, some of them lire-
men who gave freely of their leisure time. Other
volunteers were men living in transient shelters
who found joy in working for the children.

A Christmas Decoration Contest

A Christmas decoration contest has for years
been a feature of the celebration in Jacksonville,
Florida. Under the auspices of the Recreation
Department, the city each year is ablaze with lights.

The 1934 contest was Open to any resident,
hotel, building, filling station, school or other in-
: stitution in the city. The classes of participants
and the conditions under which they took part in
the contest were as follows:

Living Trees. Under 10 feet in height on resi-
dential property. Must have at least seven lights.
Six zones.

Living Trees. Over 10 feet in height on residen-
tial property. Must have at least fourteen lights.
Six zones.

Artificial Trees. (Outdoors.) Any height on resi-
dential property. Must have at leaSt seven lights.
Six zones.

Homes Proper. This includes flood lighting,
lights in windows, trees in windows, outside fes-
toons, etc. Must have at least seven lights. Six
zones.

 

Courtesy Berkeley, California, Recreation Department

Much might be written about the Christ-
mas celebrations which were held last
year — of municipal Christmas trees
about which entire communities gather-
ed to sing well-loved carols; of elaborate
pageants given with beauty and dignityI
and of simple but effective festivals
making the spirit of Christmas a livingI
vital thing. We are presenting a brief
descriptio-h of Philadelphia's Christmas
Carol Festival in the hope that it will
prove suggestive to communities plan-
ning their I935 celebrations.

Filling Stations and Pig
Stands. Decorations must in-
clude at least seven lights and
be outside of building.

Hotels and Buildings. Deco-
rations must be outside. At
least fourteen lights must be
included in scheme of deco-
ration.

Schools [or P.T.A.'s). Deco-
rations may be in windows
or a lighted tree on grounds.
Minimum of seven lights.

Small Stores (Windows and Exteriors). Con-
sisting of one room or floor. Minimum of seven
lights.

Large Stores (Windows and Exteriors). Con-
sisting of more than one room or inOr. Minimum
of fourteen lights.

Letter Writing Contest. “Why Jacksonville
Should Decorate for Christmas.” 200 word limit.
Must be in by December I5, 1934.

a. Junior high school students
I). Senior high school students
0. Adults

The contest is open to any resident, hotel build-
ing, filling station, school or other institution in
Jacksonville.

Entry blank must state plainly the classification
entered. If one person enters two exhibits, two
blanks must be filed. Send blanks to Department
of Public Recreation, 18 East Duval Street.

Each display must contain at least seven lights.
Other decorative material such as tinsel, reflect-
ors, streamers, wreaths, etc., may be used.

Trees decorated by school groups (P.T.A., stu-
dents, teachers or dads’ club) will be judged in
one class regardless of size.

The use of material or men supplied by a de-
partment of the city is forbidden.

I

Philadelphia’s Christmas Carol Festival
At Christmas time last year Philadelphia en-

This drawing was
used on the pro-
gram of the Berke-
ley Christmas
pageant in I934.
It was madeiby
Ferdinand Kebe-
ly who was gen-
eral director of
the pageant given

 

WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES 419

joyed its second annual Christmas carol festival
sponsored by the Playground and Recreation As-
sociation with the cooperation of the Settlement
Music School.

The festival was characterized by one feature
particularly colorful and unique. This was the
pantomime of the carol, The Bagpipers, long used
in the Abruzzi Mountains by the shepherds of
that region, who march down in the early dawn
of Christmas with a piper and flutist, playing and
singing in the village streets, gathering crowds as
they go, until at midnight they congregate around
a mountain shrine and join in a program of many
songs and dances expressive of the joyous spirit

of the Yuletide.

The cast for the pantomime was selected from
Dixon House, a branch of University Settlement,
and practically all of the participants were de—
scendants of natives of that part of Italy, with a
piper and flutist who had often played in the fes—
tival as given there.

The stage setting was arranged with a back
drop of the mountains, the customary cairn shrine
with piles of boulders encircling it, and with an
end of a road coming from the nearby village.
The costumes were all authentic, varied and color-
ful, with just enough play of lights to add to their
effectiveness and inspire a mood of festivity with
reverence.

The curtain parted on the scene at early dawn,
with a faint rose light glimmering over the moun-
tain peaks and three children waiting to hear the
first sound of the bagpipe and flute. Suddenly it
comes, far off. The boy springs up, listens a sec—
ond, then draws his sisters up, dancing with joy
off the road to arouse the village. Soon they re-
turn, followed by detached groups—more boys
and girls, young maids and youths, older men and
women, an aged grandmother, all bowing a moment
before the shrine before passing on to meet the
musicians. Finally they return, dancing and beck-
oning, as the music grows nearer until other
groups with the performers surge on.

The light grows into the blue white of a win-
ter day, but the swirling of the pipes and the
whirling of the figures somehow give the impres—
sion of a glowing fire, sending out warmth to all
the world from some great universal hearth.

Five hundred children in the chorus seated in
the first rows of the auditorium now begin to sing
with those on the stage, first the strains of the
carol Handel wove into the Christmas music of

“The Messiah”; then “Come All Ye Children”
breathes out and twelve small boys and girls come
slowly on, bow before the shrine and group near
by, while the chorus goes on to “Angels We Have
Heard on High,” with the refrain, “Gloria in
Excelsis Deo” sung far away as by an angelic
choir.

This ended the pantomime proper, but the par-
ticipants remained on the stage singing with the
chorus, and the light advanced toward evening
with a sunset glow that dimmed at the last into
moonlight.

There were five hundred children in the chorus
from twenty—four settlements, recreation centers,
day nurseries and children’s homes. They were
accompanied by an orchestra from the Settlement

Music School, directed by Mr. Johan Grolle, di—
rector of the school, who also led the chorus.

The following carols were sung:

“Come All Ye Faithful”; “The Bagpipers”;
“Come All Ye Children”; “Angels We Have
Heard On High”; “Oh Thou J0yful Day”;
“Christmas Song (Ide0)”; “The Christmas
Rose”; “Hush,My Dear”; “Silent Night”; “Good
News from Heaven.”

As an overture the orchestra played three Bach
chorales, and the exit of the chorus and panto-
mimists was made to the strains of the bagpipe
and flute.

Celebrations in Other Cities

The Oakland, California, Recreation Depart-
ment in 1934 again presented “The Light of the
World,” a pageant made possible through the co-
operation which exists between the Board of
Education and the Recreation Department. San
Francisco last year held its seventeenth Christmas
celebration arranged by the Art Commission and
the Recreation Commission. Tableaux posed by
children of one of the playgrounds were a beau-
tiful feature of the city’s celebration.

Three hundred years ago the observance of
Christmas in Boston was a violation of law. In
1912 the first municipal Christmas tree was set
up, making the city one of the pioneers in what is
now a nation-wide custom. Beginning with 1922
Boston established the custom of an official ob-
servance of the Christmas season as it is now car-
ried on annually on the Common through a pro-
gram of music and drama which attractsomany

thousands of people each year.

The Inexpensive Use of Leisure

OMEONE has cyni-
S cally commented

“Save while you
are young, in order
that when you are old
you may have money to spend
on pleaSUres which you can
no longer enjoy.”

A great deal of the misery
resulting from our present
economic stress is due to the fact that too many
people concentrated on storing up wealth, hoping
to enoy life after a hard—earned retirement. When
their savings were swept away, they found them-
selves not only deprived of their money but ut—
terly unable to adjust themselves to a period of
leisure which was not coupled with cash.

This situation has a double-barreled lesson.
First, it teaches us in no uncertain terms that we
must carry on a leisure program along with our
struggle for existence as a parallel enterprise and
secondly, that a part of our leisure program
should be consecrated to activities which require
little or no expense.

It has been suggested by an accurate observer
that there are four main types of hobbies, those
connected with sports and games, learning some-
thing, creating something, and collecting some-
thing.

It is Stlrprising how many of these are suscepti-
ble of enjoyment with little or no expense. It is
true that many sports and games involve expense,
but there are many examples to the contrary.
\Valking is one .of these activities. It may be used
for exercise alone, or it may be combined with
observation. For the first time in many years,
large numbers have been con-
fronted with the necessity of

An educational adviserin a C.C.C. camp
finds the least expensive forms of leu-
sure time activities the most valuable.

By RICHARD N. THOMPSON
Camp Moreno Lake

Campo, California

In the city near
which I live, many
hundreds of men are
daily engaged in an-
other outdoor activity
which necessitates little or no
outlay. This is the game of
quoits or “horseshoes.” It
costs little or nothing.

In the field of learning, the
public libraries furnish an inexpensive medium.
A complete education is here available to those
with any degree of either initiative or persistency.

As an educational adviser in a Civilian Conser-
vation Corps camp which is fully three-foUrths
vocational, I am faced daily with a realization that
I should have learned to do more things with my
hands. The boys at this camp out of the very
manzanita roots which they have dug out of the
soil to make way for roads and fire-breaks have
contrived interesting highly-polished art objects
and in a like manner out of cut brush—wood have
fashioned excellent canes.

As for collecting, this need not entail any great
expenditure. Costly stamp~albums can be replac-
ed with inexpensive loose-leaf note-books, saving
page after page of blank space and permitting a
higher degree of specialization—pairs, blocks of
four, special perforations can be interspersed
through the pages of each country as desired.

Collecting magazine verse need involve little
more than a loose-leaf note—book, a pair of scis-
sors, paste or niucilage and a pack of discarded
magazines. I arrange my collection alphabetically
by first lines. I have a special collection of verse
on “gardens.”

1

The collecting of maps is
an inexpensive hobby. With

walking. Accustomed to use
their automobiles rather than
walk a hundred yards, they
now find it necessary to
tramp the inhospitable pave-
mcnts. Where once they had
time only to make money,
now they have merely the
time without the money.

420

"Too much of our philosophy has been
to save and save, to work hard until you
have a chance to retire; then you can
have leisure—leisure on crutches. If one
is too old to work one is also too old to
enjoy leisure. Our new philosophy must
say. 'Live todayl' Leisure is dated. It
cannot be saved. Use it today—or re-

linquish it."—Jay B. Nash in Leisure,
for What? in "The Journal of Health
and Physical Education.ll May I935.

a good map and a vivid
imagination one can project
a series of tours that can be
made a profitable study by
using the nearest library for
supplementary data.

A “Know YOUr Connty”
hobby can be made a life-

(Continued on page 426)

WORLD AT PLAY

Some Recent Park
Developments

L A N S I N G, Michigan,
has a new park of about
ten acres which the state
has leased to the city as
long as it is used as a
playground. It is located
in a part of town where a
park is greatly needed.
The park will include '1
playground, a picnic
ground, several t e n n is
courts, two softball dia-
monds, and eventually an
outdoor theater.

Four years ago Mos-
cow, Idaho, had a city
park with picnic tables
and wading pool. In the
past four years this park
has developed into a recreation park which in—
cludes baseball, softball, four tennis courts,
seven horseshoe courts, and a 50’ x 120’ swim—
ming pool with dressing rooms. The park has
proved tremendously popular in this commu-
nity of 6,000 people, furnishing 10,000 hours
of recreation the first three weeks it was
opened in June.

FOR the past two
years the San Fran-
c i s c 0, California,
Recreation Commis-
sion has sponsored a boys’ choir of over sev-
enty enthusiastic young boy sopranos. Regu—
lar rehearsals are held three times a week and
the choir has participated in many operas and
in various departmental music activities. The
city has voted to maintain its symphony or-
chestra by earmarking one-half cent per $100
valuation in the tax rate for the orchestra.

San Francisco’s
Music Program

 

Courtesy Milwaukee County Regional
P11111115:ng Department

An Outdoor
Library

NEW YORK CITY,

through the Recreation
Division of the Park De-
partment and the Exten-
sion Division of the Pub-
lic L i b r a r y, has estab-
lished an outdoor library
in Bryant Park for the
use of the unemployed
and homeless men who
constitute the park’s most
constant attendants. The
books will consist of dis-
carded library books and
gifts from individuals, and
there will be several hun-
dred magazines in addi-
tion to the books. The
service will be operated
by five relief workers, two of whom will be on
duty at all times, and the library will be open
on week days from IO :00 AM. to 6:00 or 7:00
PM. The Park Department is providing um-
brella shaded tables for the books and librari-
ans. Additional benches, also shaded with
umbrellas, have been placed in a double row
on the terrace back of the library. At night

the books and magazines are kept in a tool
shed.

THE Berkeley, Cali-
f o r n i a, Recreation
Department, which
operates municipal
playgrounds, school playgrounds, city parks
and summer camps, has been granted increas-
es in the playground, park and school budgets
amounting to $6,818.70. Most encouraging of
all has been the restoration of all salaries to
the pre—depression level.

Recreation Budget
Increases

421

422 WORLD AT PLAY

GIVE PITCHING
HORSESHOESIN THE

Christmas lHarkagP

A gift all spor’r lovers will appreciate the
year round. Packed in brightly colored boxes.
—ei’rher in pairs as illustrated or in sets of
four with stakes in sturdy wooden boxes.
However packed—Diamond Official Pitching
Ho‘seshoes are winners in the preference of
both amateur and professional players.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

The Board of Park Commissioners of Min.
neapolis, Minn, has approved a budget request of
$511,600 for the operation of parks, play—
grounds, forestry and the municipal airport
during 1936. This is an increase of $93,000
over the budget allowance for 1935.

A County in Which Golf Flourishes—The
August 2nd issue of Our Parks, published by
the Union County Park Commissionhannounc—
es that 201 season cards and 3,091 identifica—
tion cards were issued for the year 1935 (to
the date of July 31st) for golf privileges at the
Galloping Hill golf course. On the basis of
these figures and other data available, the
Commission estimates that about 4 per cent of
the county population have played on this
course since the identification system was in—
troduced in 1931.

Tours of Chicago—In the August issue of
RECREATION mention was made of the tour
conducting classes carried on under the aus-
pices of the Chicago Recreation Commission
in cooperation with the Educational Emer—
gency Program. These tours are creating much

‘

 

interest. Edward L. Burchard, Executive Sec—
retary of the Commission, reports that a group
of 350 people visited the Lorado Taft Studio.
The tour of Chinatown also brought out a
large number. Other tours scheduled from
August 19th to August 30th included Lincoln
Park, Negro life and culture, the stock yards,
and the melting pot—a number of Chicago’s
settlements. During the summer period the
Chicago Park District carried on tours for
children under the direction of Miss Dorothea
Nelson. A printed schedule giving information
regarding the student tours conducted under
the auspices of the Museum of Science and
Industry was distributed to school principals
and teachers.

A County Harvest Music Festival — On
August 31st Dauphin County, Pa., held a har—
vest music festival under the auspices of the
FERA of the County and arranged by Mary
Bush Hauck, State Supervisor of Music. One
thousand people representing various commu—
nities of the county took part in the singing
accompanied by a hundred piece symphony
orchestra. Only one rehearsal of the entire
ensemble was called, this being held on the
date of the performance. Each community was
responsible for securing its own key musical
leader, free rental for rehearsal, and transpor—
tation to Hershey. The festival was held in
the Hershey Park auditorium.

A Recreation Program for Danville—By a
vote of approximately two to one, Danville,
Illinois, approved the recreational tax of one—
fifth of a mill, providing approximately $4,000
a year for a year—round recreation program.

A Winter Recreation Exhibition — Last
spring Pottsville,‘ Pennsylvania, held its first
annual winter recreation exhibition which
proved a fitting climax to the various recrea-
tional activities held in the city and its vicinity
during the winter months. The program con—
sisted of a band concert, community singing,
gymnastics, c10g, buck and wing dances, and
basketball games.

Skiing in New England—Skiing has become
one of the most popular of winter sports in
New England. New ski clubs sprang up last
winter throughout the entire section and meme

WORLD AT PLAY

bership in the older clubs grew rapidly. A
number of new trails have been built by State
Conservation Departments aided in many cases

: by the Federal Forest Service and by local

ski clubs. The snow train of the Boston and
Maine Railroad last winter hauled 1,200 to
2,000 skiers out of Boston every Sunday, while
week-end trains and automobiles carried many
others. It was a small group of skiers from
the Appalachian Mountain Club who first per-
suaded the Boston and Maine to start the snow
train. They guaranteed 70 member passengers
and predicted that an equal number of outside
skiers would ride. The first snow train pulled
out on January II, 1931, carrying 197 ski fans.
On February 4, 1935, it left Boston in six sec-
tions carrying 2,900 people. The 60 snow trains
of last winter carried a total of practicall}r
16,000 people to the snow fields.

Parks for New Castle, Pennsylvania—The
monthly bulletin published by the Pennsyl-
vania Department of Internal Affairs reports

'an active park development in New Castle dur-

ing the year. Two hundred and fifty acres in
five parks have been acquired by purchase and

by a gift of a number of tracts from Matthew
Gunton.

Pontiac’s Summer Playgrounds—Last sum-
mer Pontiac, Michigan, operated fifteen play-
grounds as against twelve in 1934. Attendance
at the play centers from May through August
totaled 234,265. This total fell only 759 short
of the record attendance established last year,
in spite of the fact that the bathing beach,
band concerts, street dances, and doll and pet
parade were not included in the program be-
cause of limited funds. There is a constant
demand on the Pontiac Recreation Department
to provide leadership and equipment to meet

the increasing requirements of residents for
recreation.

An Art Colony Camp—On June 24th to 29th
the art department of the VVomen’s 'Club of
\Vheeling, West Virginia, sponsored its sev-
enth annual art colony camp at Oglebay Park.
The resident members were accommodated at
Oglebay’s institute camp at $12.00 a week.
Instruction in sketching and color media was
offered by an artist and experienced teacher.

A Nurses’ Hobby Show —— On November
14th and 15th the Hotel Biltmore, New York

I A CARROM

TOURNAMENT

a constructive
answer to the problem
of creating maximum
interest with a mini-

mum of organizational
effort

If you are not as yet familiar with the Carrom

Tournament Program, by all means write for
full details.

Here is a tournament program. self-originated
by thousands of boys in hundreds of communi-
ties throughout the nation during the last few
years. and now directed and encouraged by the
National Carrom Association to maintain and

extend interest in the wholesome, fascinating
game of Carroms.

Under the tournament program of the Associa-
tion, your organizational work is cut to a scanty
minimum. The boys themselves organize their
own club, start their own tournament, and de-
pend upon you only for general supervision.
formal sponsorship, and awarding of the cham-
pionship prize.

The National Carrom Association bears most of
the expense. Club membership badges. champion-
ship prizes. instruction manual, rule book, and

miscellaneous items. are all supplied free of
charge.

The Carrom Tournament Program is being na-
tionally advertised in all leading juvenile maga-
zines. including American Boy, Boy’s Life,

Scouting, Open Road for Boys, St. Nicholas.
and Young America.

Full information regarding the Carrom Tourna-
ment Program will gladly be supplied.

 

ACTUAL SIZE

 

This beautiful C a r r o m Carrom Tournament cham-
Club membership badge. pious are awarded this
cast in solid bronze. is valuable silver medal by
sent to every Carrom Club tbe National Carrom As-
Tournament applicant. satiation. A c t n a 1 size.

3” x1% I’.

NATIONAL CARROM

ASSOCIATION

3000 LUDINGTON AVENUE
LUDINGTON 4- + MICHIGAN

423

 

424

City, will be the scene of the first N‘urses’
Hobby Show to be sponsored by the Com-
mittee on Eight Hours for Nurses- of which
Miss Mary K. McDermott, I 320 York Avenue,
New York City, is chairman. The show will
consist of booth exhibits and a program of
varied interest, including music and a fashion
show during the day. There will also be eve-
ning entertainment—a dramatic performance
on both evenings and a subscription dance on
the evening of November 15th. The purpose
of the show is to present the hobbies of nurses
and demonstrate the versatility of members of
the profession, to make available opportunities
and resources for hobbies in New York City
and to stimulate widespread interest among
doctors, hospital authorities and the general
public to the end that there will be more gen—
eral recognition of the fact that nurses need
leisure. There will be a general admission
charge of one dollar.

A Municipal Chorus.———L.ate in February the
Municipal Chorus of the Oakland, California,
Recreation Department, presented a Handel

WORLD AT PLAY

Festival Concert commemorating the 250ti
anniversary of the birth of the great composer
Selections from “Scipione,” “Judas Macca
baeus,” “Joshua,” “Julius Caesar,” and “Sam
son” were among the outstanding numbers or
the program. On March 28 a Bach Memoria
Concert will be presented in the Municipa
Auditorium Theater by the same group 0
singers whose activities have been made pos
sible through the cooperation of the Oaklant
Public Schools and the Emergency Educatio:
Program with the Recreation Department.

Puppets Popular—Under the auspices of th
Playground and Recreation Association 0
Wyoming Valley, Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania
a marionette and puppet club has been devel
oped which meets every Saturday afternoon
One project of the club has been the making
of the marionettes and a stage setting to
“Bluebird.” This will be presented at severa
evening centers.

Through the Lincoln, Nebraska Recreati01
Board a puppet show has been set up in th
basement of City Hall. A portable stage ha

 

gasett, Teaching Whitetail 60% the Recteafion Ditecto'z

The Education Division of the National Safety Council publishes a variety of
material designed to aid in the teaching of- safety on the playground or in
the school. We recommend the following:

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE—A monthly publication con-
taining colored posters, graded lesson outlines, short plays
and stories, informational articles, etc.

Price $1.00 a year

THE JUNIOR SAFETY COUNCIL—A handbook of safety activi—
ties containing practical program suggestiops, patrol organi-

zation and references.

Price $.35

PLAYGROUND PACKET—A collection of safety material for the
playground director. Contains 10 colored safety posters, a
safety play, crayon lessons and instructions for the safe use

of playground equipment.

Price $1.00.

Education Division, National Safety Council

ONE PARK AVENUE

L

NEW YORK, N. Y.

WORLD AT PLAY 425

been built which can be used at the Luncheon
Club, at childrens gatherings, and as a part of
general entertainment.

New Classes at the Westchester Workshop.
-——Three new courses for adult residents of
Westchester County, New York have been
added to the curriculum of the Westchester
Workshop. These include Creative Listening
to Music, Book—Review and Literary Discus-
sion, and Art and the Teaching of Art.

New Handcraft Activities in Los Angeles—
The Los Angeles, California, Playground and
Recreation Department added to its regular
handcraft classes last summer a number of
new instruction groups, including a five weeks’
course in beginning and advanced pottery mak-
ing which carried a fee of $1. 50, classes in reed
-work (free), dressmaking (25 cents for each
session), and lectures on interior decorating

(free). '

What the Recreation Congress Meant

to Chicago
(Continued from page 382)

tained. Everyone was busy all of the time,
seriously working to get everything possible
out of the opportunity for professional inter—
change of experience and of ideas. Our local
people found the convention a working session.
We have profited greatly from it, each in the
particular phase in which he was most vitally
interested, and that, we feel, will make the
Congress go down in local history as an event
vitally contributing to the city which was for-
tunate enough to be the Congress host.

Clubs for Girls and Women

(Continued from page 416)

some community services such as the dressing
of dolls at Christmas. For the next age group
there are dramatics, music, handcraft, the de-
velopment of civic interest, visits to museums
and libraries, and the planning of activities
which girls may enjoy with boys. (A dancing
' class is a successful activity in Cincinnati.) For
the older girls the Commission maintains a
"charm school.” One of the out-standing de-
velopments is the Meet—a—Body Club organized
for the purpose of giving strangers of the city

 

BRING

LEISURE

TO YOUR GROUP

for less than

7e A MONTH

Assist those under your direction to spend
their spare time to greater advantage, to get
more out of life—in health, in pleasure. in
self-improvement, in happiness. Accomplish
this by making LEISURE. the magazine of
a thousand diversions available to them.
Every month it’s crammed with new and
interesting things to do. You’ll find new in-
troductions to sports, games, music, travel,
handicrafts. photography, creative arts,
nature studies—a few of a variety of ac-
tivities . . . to pass on to them. . . . Clip the
coupon below. It will be the first step to a
richer, fuller leisure-time program.

 

Cover Illrstration Courtesy Bradford Junior College

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER
v To Readers of Recreation

—_ouu— ——_————————————__H

I5 months only - $I.OO

_HF!I-II-!l-ll—Il—|l—y—Iup—g—"—u—-——"—V—n———

FILL IN YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS. SEND BILL.
CHECK. STAMPS 0R M. 0. (Canadian or Foreign Post—50c.

extra). R'll
LEISURE, 683 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass. P523:

Please send your special 15 months offer—$1.00 enclosed.

r—_-—_-—-———_

2

:-

3:

m

l

i

I
L__---——_—_

426 - MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

) Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZIN ES

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Educa-

tion Association, October, 1935
Achievement Scales in Athletics for College Women,

by Hazel J. Cu'bberley

Supplement to the Research Quarterly, October, 1935
Leisure-Time Activities

New Jersey Municipalities, October, 1935
Standards in High School Athletics, by Allen G.

Ireland, MD.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

October, 1935 I .
Physical Exercises in Cardiac and Metabolic D15-

eases, by Peter V. Karpovich, M.D. .
Soccer—A Universal Game, by Howard R. De Nike

Relay Races in Japan, by Ruth Weythman .
Indoor Archery Equipment, by Natalie Reichart

Education, October, 1935

Basic Conceptions for Extra-Curricular Activities,
by Edward I. Eaton

Education Through Play, by Earl E. Lorden

Dramatics As a Dynamic Force in Education, by
Ivard N. Strauss

Home Room Activities, by A. Rebecca Parsons

Extra-Curricular Activities in Music, by Mabel F.

' Frernmer

The New Leisure Challenges the English Curricu-

lum, by Salibelle Royster

Junior-Senior High School Clearing House,

September 1935
The Recreation Center, by Claude F. Turner

Parents’ Magazine, October 1935
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King
Playthings of the Month
Books for Boys and Girls, by Alice Dalgliésh

Leisure, October 1935

A Handful of Clay; by Harriet Timlin

Photography As a Hobby, by Frank R. Fraprie

What About Hallowe’en? by Mary Price Roberts,
Ph.D.

Hostel Ahoy! by G. G. Telfer

Leisure—A New Area for Development, by Walter
L. Stone ' ’

Crepe Clay Modeling

PAM PH LETS

Minimum Sanitary Requirements for Swimming Pools
and Bathing Places
Division of, Sanitary Engineering, State of Illinois

Thirteenth Annual Report of the Playground Board, Vil-
lage of Oak Park, Illinois, 1934

The Widening Sc0pe of Modern Recreation, by Josephine
Dows Randall. Reprinted from The Municipal Record
September, 1935

Educational Films
Harvard Film Service, Harvard University
I 000 and One——-The Blue Book of Non-Theatrical Films,

19$57-536. The Educational Screen, Chicago, Ill. Price

Baltimore Hobby Show
Promoted by the Kiwanis Club of Baltimore
Parent Education Opportunities, by Ellen C. Lombard
U.$ Office of Education, Bulletin 1935, No. 3. Price.
. 0

the opportunity to become acquainted. Out
of this has grown various interest groups—-
music, hiking, and others.

Questions flew thick and fast in the discus—
siOn. “How do you recruit girls?” (Through
announcing of activities in papers, the sending
out of cards, and getting girls to bring their gangs
along.) “How is it possible to guide the choice of
officers?” (Change them often.) The question
“What of the problem of difference of nation-
alities within a club?” was an important one.
Some, is was pointed out, cannot be combined.
It was suggested that the various nationalities
be kept in separate groups but should be en-
couraged to arrange joint affairs. “What can
be done to help prevent the conflict of girls
and their homes when clubs and community
centers are often in such marked contrast to
the girls’ homes?” (Mothers’ parties given by
the girls and parties for friends and parents
after athletic events help here.)

The all important subject of leadership was
much in the foreground. Following the lead—
ership training course in Los Angeles, it was
stated, those taking part indicate at the close
what type of work they would enjoy, whether
Girl Scout, Camp Fire, church, community
center, etc. A list of these volunteers is given
to the authorities in the various fields and a
recruiting process is initiated.

The Inexpensive Use of Leisure
(Continued from page 420)

time project involving all the known subdivisions
of leisure, One may walk the length and breadth
of any county, learn all about what it contains,
create an exhibit of its outstanding features and
collect materials to hll the exhibit. There is no
end to related possibilities such as “Know YOUr
City.” ‘ 1

And ,to what end? First, it will give you a lei-
sure program as a joyful alternative to yOUr daily
struggle for existence. Second, the activities in-
dicated together with countless others which will -
suggest themselves, involve relatively little ex—
pense. Lastly, they will help you to save some
money, and ,should you succeed in amassing the
sum you need for retirement, you will have ac-
quired a fund of pleasures upon which you can
squander what money you will. And if, like most
of us, you never get to the place where you can
retire you: will still have pleasures you can afford
to enjoy!

   

ll Tin-Craft as a Hobby

By Enid Bell. Harper and Brothers, New York. $2.00.
0 THOSE who are unfamiliar with the use of tin as a
craft material this book will come as a pleasant sur-

prise, for there are -many people who have never realized

the possibilities for creating 'beautiful as well as useful
articles which lie in this inexpensive medium. The ob-

jects illustrated, with the exception of those designated.

as Colonial or Mexican, have been designed by the author
and adapted to a great variety of furnishing schemes.
There are many diagrams and photographs showing how
to proceed step by step in making the articles described.
Among these are trays, candle holders, mirrors, flower
holders, flowers, Christmas tree ornaments, decorative
panels, and a number of miscellaneous articles.

Soccer and Speed Ball Guide |935-6

Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 116R. $.25.

ONE OF the publications in the athletic activities for
women and girls series, this booklet, prepared by

the Women’s Rules and Editorial Committee of the W0-

men’s Athletic Section of the A.P.E.A., contains rules

for field -ball as well as soccer and speed 'ball. A number

of articles on techniques and plays are included.

A Manual of Settlement Boys' Work

Edited by John M. Kingman and Edward Sidman. Na-
tional Federation of Settlements, 147 Avenue B, New
York. Bound $1.00; paper $.25. Plus postage.

THE National Federation of Settlements has performed

a much needed service in preparing this manual which
will be of practical help not only to settlement workers
but to all leaders in boys’ activities. The field covered
is wide and far reaching, including the philosophy and
principles of group work involved, mechanics of club
organization, and activities classified under games, ath-
letics, hikes, craft work, dramatics, music, storytelling,
group discussions, and a number of other activities. Bi'b-
liographies and source materials are listed. Recreation
workers will find here much of practical value for their
programs.

Games and Stunts for all Occasions

By William P. Young and Horace J. Gardner. J. B.
Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. $1.00.

H ERE ARE 158 original games and adaptations of old

favorites which the planner of parties will find in-
valuable. They include warming up games, games with
surprises, games for the spectator, paper and pencil
games, question and answer games, games of knowledge
and team games. There is a chapter of conundrums and
a dictionary of forfeits. Suggestions for party decora—
tions and refreshments have been included.

New Publications in the LeisureTime Field

The Book I Made Myself

Hannah Fondiller Barnes, 350 West 3lst Street, New
York City. $1.50.

AN unusually interesting and artistic project for chil-
dren from 5 to 12 years of age is embodied in this set
which consists of a spiral bound book and 9] colored
pictures in a treasure chest envelope which the child
transfers to the book in any way he wishes. He may
cut out the pictures, paste them in a book, trace or color
them or he may create. The pictures are all original
and are artistic and accurate. The project not only pro-
vides fascinating work ‘but is highly informational, stim-
ulates self—expression and leads in easy, definite, enjoyable
steps to the pride and satisfaction of accomplishment.

Things to Make and How to Make Them

By William W. Klenke. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Illinois.

HERE are four booklets in this practical series of publi-

cations: (l) The Home Workshop, giving instructions
for the home craftsman and suggestions for equipment
(75 cents); (2) Things to Make for the Camp and
Game-R0011; (50 cents); (3) Things to Make for the
Lawn and Garden (50 cents); (4) Things to Make for
the Home (50 cents).

Hallowe'en and Thanksgiving—

The Harvest Festivals

By Nina B. Lamkin. All Through the Year Series.
Samuel French, New York. $.50.

THERE IS A magic mystery associated with the cere-

monials and thanksgivings which occur at the time
of harvest, at Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving. In this
book will be found many of the meanings of these cere-
monials at “summer’s end” and harvest time. Programs,
plays, dances, rhythmic drills, festivals and songs with

magic rites will provide much material for the harvest
days.

Selected Motion Pictures

Motion Picture Bureau, National Council Y.M.C.A., 347
Madison. Avenue, New York.

HE twenty-second annual edition of this catalogue

for the season 1935—1936 now available, lists a num-
ber of free silent and sound films and a larger number
of rental silent and sound films which are available
through the bureau. Exhibitors wishing to draw pro-
grams from the free film section are required to pay a
registration fee of $2.00 which will entitle them to ser-
vice through Junc, 1936 provided registration is made
'before December 31, 1935. The c00perative services of
the bureau are for the benefit of all organizations and
institutions interested in presenting wholesome and
worthwhile pictures to their members.

427

428 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Designs for Tooled Leather (Book II).

By Louise C. Hioefer. 317 East Lomita Street,
Glendale, California. $1.00.

Two years ago Mrs. Hoefer published Book I of this
series which consists of 41 designs all of the modern
type and various sizes. Book II contains 18 plates of 52
conventional designs using flowers, scrolls and similar
designs, and four pages of suggestions telling how each
design may be best carried out in coloring and tooling.
There are designs to fit all of the articles commonly
made of hand tooled leather, and some show the pattern
for cutting the leather. Mrs. Hoefer has also published
a 26 page book entitled Leathercraft Instructions giving
concise information regarding the things an instructor
or beginner wants to know about art leather work as it
is done today. Any one of these three ‘books will be mailed
postpaid for $1.00, or the three for $2.75.

Official Foot Ball Guide 1935.

Edited By W. R. Okeson.
Library. No. 200x. $.35.

No changes of a fundamental nature have been made
in this edition though there are some modifications in
wording for the purpose of making clearer the meaning
and intent of certain rules. As usual, the rules are in—
cluded as a detachable section of Spalding’s Ofiicial Foot
Ball Guide. Of particular interest to the student of the
game is the chapter devoted to the evaluation of foot
ball-a concise history of the sport since its origin,

Spalding’s Athletic

Christmas Plays for Women and Girls.

Fitzgerald Publishing Corporation, New York. $.50.

This collection of comedies by a number of different
authors answers the demand for a new sort of play in
the old tradition-a play for all women casts. There is
something here for every sort of group from two up,
and thc Christmas spirit pervades them all.

1000 Books for the Senior High School Library.

American Library Association, Chicago. $1.00.

This list, compiled by a joint committee of the Ameri—
can Library Association, the National Education Asso-
ciation and the National Council of Teachers of English,
will prove exceedingly valuable to the busy school librar-
ian. Included in the roster are books of social sciences,
useful arts, fine arts, literature, poetry, drama, history,
travel, biography and fiction.

Fun for All for Every Occasion.

Harry D. Edgren, George \Villiams College, Chi-
cago. $.70.

In this mimeographed compilation Mr. Edgren has
brought together from various squrccs games, stunts and
recreational activities which he has grouped around spe-
cial themes. There is a complete party plan for each
month of thc year and other special programs. Many of
the ideas suggested in one program may be used equally
well in some other. There are in all 245 different games
indexed alphabetically according to type—active games
and relays, inactive, quiet games and entertainment stunts.

The Coming of Leisure—The Problem in England.

Edited by E. B. Castle, A. K. C. Ottaway, and W. T.
R. Rawson. New Education Fellowship, 29 Tavis-
tock Square, London, W.C.l, England: $.80.

That England is recognizing, as is our own country,
the importance' and significance of increasing leisure is
evidenced in the publication of this interesting pamphlet
which deals primarily with the responsibility of education
for training for the use of leisure. “If an increase in
leisure is to mean an advancc in civilization, education
must become an adventure continued throughout life . . .
More than adequate efforts have been expended on the

intellectual training of the child: the time has now come
for recognizing his need of all those activities which we
lightly place under the heading of ‘leisure time occupa-
tions.’ ” The pamphlet tells what is being done in Eng-
land for children of the elementary schools, for the post-
school adolescent, and for adult life through clubs, physi-
cal activities, arts and crafts, music, drama, reading, and
other activities.

Report of the Program-Planning Studies 1931-1933.
Womans Press, New York. $.25.

In 1931 the National Board of Y.W.C.A.’s undertook
as one of its services to local associations surveys of
local communities from the standpoint of the needs of
young women, of local associations to determine their
problems and main needs, and of the economic situation
as a basis for determining the amount of work to be
undertaken by local associations for a three to five year
period. Curtailment of funds made it impossible to carry
on an extended program, but four projects were under-
taken: Iowa—Nebraska; Troy, New York; San Fran-
cisco; Kansas City, Kansas, and Kansas City, Missouri.
The outgrowths of these four studies are reported in this
statement. Community workers interested in surveys
will want to secure c0pies of the report.

Caddies of Erie County, N. Y.

By Roy F. \Vood'bury and Charlotte I. Clafiin.
Juvenile Protective Department, Children’s Aid So-
ciety of Buffalo and Erie County.

Possibly the first study of caddying to be made, this
report contains some very interesting facts about an oc-
cupation regarding which little has -been published. As
a result of the study, definite recommendations have been
made regarding employment certificates, registration,
hours of work, recreation, caddy houses, transportation,
lunches and general environment.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

Joan H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. VVINANT, Second Vice-President
RosER'r GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETTKPOI‘tland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HIcRox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfieid, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y. '

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

O'r'ro T. MALLERY Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIxEx, Augusta. Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, W'oodhury, N. Y. -
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
Jonx G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

