Inexpensive Living

[VINO itself is not costly. Self—activity. swimming, skating, building, making, tramp-

ing are about the least expensive things there are. After all it is acquiring material
things that is costly and worrisome.

Once let us as a people learn the lesson of play and recreation, of how to have
fun in little things, and as a peOple we will place less emphasis on the accumulation of

material things as essential to happiness. The less of life we have within us the more
essential are mater1al goods.

A minimum amount of safety, protection, security, certain forms of insurance for
the emergenc1es of llfe there must ever be.

In the large, however, what the man is and what he can do is far more important
than how many things he has.

What after all does a man need in addition to his job to be a man, to he himself,
to have those activities that express himself? Of course there must be land and water
——-—often the wilder the better. There must be a few tools, but not t00 many. In the
early days there were The Commons and again in these times we establish land, water,

and buildings held by all the peOple for all the people where men can come together——
even as animals do—to share a measure of common life.

A measure of cooperative leadership is essential to prevent conflicts, to arrange
schedules, to make sure that all have an equal opportunlty. Then beg1nners need as-
sistance, though not too much, in acquir1ng fundamental skalls.

On rainy days children shut indoors, without provision for happy activity, ac-
cumulate poison within until they are ready to explode. Not dlfferent is it with men,
Men often do not know what is wrong within themselves until they have become

active, perhaps as a part of a group and then they realize that they were burning up
for lack of activity—nothing more or less.

Many and varied are the life activities which give satisfaction—not all are called
recreation. Much free time for many can be used W1th pleasure 1n various forms of

service, in activity as laymen on school boards, park boards, on local governmental
committees, in polltical organlzatlons.

We need as much ingenuity in offering attractive Opportunities for living as we
have shown in the work side of life. The greatest need is not money, but to care to
provide opportunity for living, to consider living nowu—right here—as worth while;
to recognize the carrying on of the activities that bring happiness as just as important
as carrying on the labor that brings material goods. Several hundred cities in the United

States consider living enough importance to free one or more workers to give their entire
time to recreation problems.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

JANUARY, |935

 

461

 

What Can the Churches Do for Abundant Living?

By JOSEPHOR. SIzoo, D.D.

reverence? Is it possible to believe that the

creative arts are in some intimate way con-
nected with the work of the Creator? Are there
Spiritual implications in this enterprise of physio
cal well-being? Has organized religion—the
c‘hurch—a stake in those eXpressions of com-
munity service commonly called recreational op-
portunities?

You see at once that to ask the question is to
answer it. No one can doubt the interrelation or
reverence with recreation, of religion with the
creative arts. Even a most superficial considera-
tion, however grudingly given, must readily admit
it. But if all of us could once again be reassured
of that fact we would go back to our daily round
with a little more heart and courage. It is for this
reason that it is good to sit down a little while
and ask what are these implications and in what
way has religion a stake in recreation.

Let us begin by saying that the very fact there
are spiritual implications in the recreation pro-
gram should give to your profession a new dig-
nity and meaning. Those who are engaged in the
creative arts can stand before our generation
unashamed and unafraid. You do not have to
apologize for your profession. In these rather
difficult and distressing times we are compelled
.to surrender many things which we can ill af-
ford to give up. There are some very vital things
slipping through our fingers. \Ve must do with-
out things that are seemingly imperative, but of
one thing we are convinced, and that is that we
cannot do without trained leadership in the crea-
tive arts. \Vhatever else we may be compelled to
give up, this we cannot give up. Whatever ele-
ments our generation may be compelled to fore-
go, it cannot yield here. This is

Is THERE any relation between recreation and

causes that underlie our troubled world, and mor-
alists are passing resolutions upon this or that flaw
or failure of the corporate life of the world, the
recreation directors are going about without ask-
ing questions or wondering 'who is to blame, lift-
ing the burdens, helping men to live more bravely
in untoward settings. In the near future we may
yet discover how large a part they played in
bringing us to this experience of the abundant life.
The generations of men shall yet rise up and call
them blessed.

Indeed religion itself is coming to a new appre-
ciation of the importance of physical well-being
as an aid to soul culture. The church has not
always been in the forefront of this movement,
but a new day is coming, largely through the in-
fluence of recreation leaders. One hundred years
ago churches were built upon hillsides, surrounded
by cemeteries. \Vhenever you came, in journey-
ing through an open country, upon some little
burying plot you would always find in the center
of it or on the edge of it, a church. We no
longer do that today. We build our chUrches in
settings bf playgrounds, tennis courts and swim-
ming pools. The old attitude of religion was to
prepare men for death. The newer and better at-
titude of religion is to prepare men for life. It
concerns itself primarily, not with the end of our
days, but with the beginning of our days. The
church has rediscovered the method of Jews, who
said to a group of disheartened men wearied by
the stress and strain of things, “Come ye apart
into a desert place and rest awhile.”

\V hen Sir Thomas More wrote his “Utopia” he
gave a vivid portrayal of the perfect city of the
future. In clear style and with beautiful imagery
he records that in the very center of this perfect

city there shall be a garden,

no time for retrenchment, but it
is a time for a positive expan-
sion of recreation. Never was
there such need for it as now.

While economic experts and
political leaders fret about the

Dr. Sizoo. Minister of the New
York Avenue Presbyterian Church

of WashingtonI addressed one of

the'meetings of the Recreation
Congress on October the fifth.
His message to recreation work-

ers was a most challenging one.

redolent with eternal spring
whose air shall be scented with
the perfume of roses, while
fountains break in spray of rain-
bow colors and the nightingale
warbles in the tree tops. In the

463

464 lt"H.-iT CAN THE CHURCHES [)0 FOR .413f'.\'D.-1NT LIVING?

center of this garden there
shall be a church whose
pointed spire -keeps men's
faces toward the sun, while
adjoining it stands a hos-
pital where all who are sick
can find healing. Surround-
ing these two are play-
grounds where children
dance and sing, building up
reserves for the perfect life.
There you have the goal
which the church has set

before itself.’

ill! why should the
church have a stake in that
enterprise? Through mod-
ern psychology it has dis-
covered a closer interrelation between the spiritual
and physical than it had supposed. They do not
live in water tight compartments. You cannot
separate these two by barbed wire entanglements.
Whether you believe mind is sopreme over matter
or matter is supreme over mind is largely deter-
mined by the philosophy of life you hold; but no
one can deny that you cannot have a clean soul in
an unclean body. You cannot starve the body and
think it will have no elTeet upon the soul. It is
uttcrly impossible to have long a healthy mind in
a body racked with disease. The voice of an old
world poet has modern meaning in the. phrase,
"the beauty of holiness." You cannot carve a
Venus de .\lilo out of scrap iron; you cannot
build a Westminster Abbey on a sawdust pile or
hang a Cologne Cathedral on a fog bank. You
cannot carve a rotted log. No more can you have
spiritual culture without ‘adequate physical well-
being. The abundant life involves the whole of
our being—body, mind and spirit.

Again, religion shares with you this ministry
of the abundant life because it touches so vitally
the life of childhood. I asked a leading figure in
our present day political life: “What have you
men done of which you are most proud?" He
answered at once and unhesitatingly, “The anni-
hilation of child labor." In place of one and one-
quarter million children working at gainful oc-
cupations we have substituted the labor of two
million adults. At last the door of opportunity
has been opened to childhood that it too may
share the abundant life. There never was a time
when childhood was given such a release from
grinding toil. hit what is so tragic about it all is

"Enforced leisure is galling men, making
them unwittingly the prey of the dema-
gogue and political mountebank. . . . The
sudden reversals of life with their wind
shifts of poverty and need are breaking
their spirits. Men are so apt to surrender
to self-pity. . . . lt is hard to maintain
morale and lteep sane. Something must be
done to relieve that tension and release the tional Opportunitieq Be-
strain. No group can meet that emergency ‘ i _
as can the trained recreation worlters. You
have your work cut out for you in these be-
wildering times of transition and change. if
the future of the world depends upon an
honest, poised facing of the issues of life
in untoward settings. then the part of the
recreation worker is not to be tossed aside
lightly. You are perhaps the most potent
force in the rebuilding of a better world."

that in the day of its oppor-
tunity doors to that abun-
dant life have been closed.
lo the name of conserving
our financial structure wc
have decreased the appro-
priations for their recrea-

cause we cannot afford it,
with one hand we have
closed the doors of the
schools and playgrounds
and with the other hand
opened the doors of saloons.

Sometimes one wonders
if we have lost our sense of
humor. Of the three bil-
lions appr0priated for the
l’\\':\ the first three hundred million dollars were
set aside to build and to rebuild roads. That sum
was enough to reconstruct every one room school-
house in the whole of the United States and its
playgrounds. Yet not one farthing was made
available for these. I suppose we need these high-
ways of travel, and so-called arteries of com-
mercc, but we have secmingly forgotten that na-
tions as well as individuals may die of the hard-
ening of the arteries. There have grown up in
recent days pitiful plague spots and tragic delin-
qucncy areas in those seething industrial centers
where children are herded into slums and find
their only entertainment at the street curb. One
supervised playground could eliminate all that at
once. One wonders sometimes if the nation is
sincere in its desire for the abundant life for

cthhood.

Not only in the realm of childhood, but also in
the adult years of life has religion a stake with
recreation workers in this ministry of well-being.
Enforced leisure is galling men, making them un-
wittingly the prey of the demagOgue and politi-
cal mountebank. The sudden reversals of life
with their wind shifts of poverty and need are
breaking their spirits. Men are so apt to sur-
render to self-pity. All manner of introspections
are filling and haunting the mind. Many are
growing morbid in their self-analysis. lt is hard
to maintain morale and keep sane. Something
must be done to relieve that tension and release
the strain. No group can meet that emergency as
can the rtained recreation workers. You have

your work cut out for you in these bewildering
(Continued on page 501)

National Government Services Through Recreation

And their contribution through widely diversified
channels to enrichment of life for the individual

In Our National Parks

By ARNo B. CAMMERER

Director
National Park Service

LONG wrrn the other Government bureaus
A touching the recreation field, we of the Na—
tional Park Service have felt strongly the
trend toward expanded utilization of outdoor
recreational areas resulting from increased adult
leisure time and the need of directed avocational
activity.

Until recently we lived in a pleasure-seeking
age, but nevertheless an age of discontent. The
depression had something of a purging effect.
Facing the stern necessities of life, the need of
providing shelter and food and covering for the
body left little time for the artificialities, and even
less time for discontent over triHes. \Ve were
fortunate to have a good job, or even a home and
three meals a day, rather than unfortunate be-
cause our neighbor had a swankier car or more
elaborate home. With this sweeping away of old
artificial values, and the need for new avocational
activities facing the country, we who deal in rec-
reation both as a vocation and an avocation are
charged with a great responsibility. We have the
opportunity to build upon the wreckage of eco-

nomic tragedies a saner mode of living, perhaps
to rejuvenate our civilization. For it has been

said that each individual civilization begins with
a striving toward artistic expression, progresses
through architecture and sculpture and painting
into music, emerges into the scientific, then be—
comes mechanical and wealthy—wand the cycle is
about ready to begin all over again.

May it not easily have been that we were ap-
proaching the end of our own particular cycle of
civilization; that wealth and luxury and mechani»

One of the evening sessions of the
Twentieth National Recreation Con-
gress was devoted'to an illuminating

discussion of the recreational services
offered by a number of the depart-

ments of our national government.

 

cal convenience of every kind were smothering
those natural impulses that, properly directed,
make a nation great? If so, we have been given a
respite, another chance to prove our mettle and
our place in the sun of modern civilization.

Taking Stock of Assets

Jiut it is more important than ever, if we are to
maintain this place, that we pause and take stock
of our assets; of our natural resources from 'the
standpoint of well-directed leisure time.

Right now, as you all know, the President’s
National Resources Board is engaged upon the
preparation of a comprehensive report upon the
best possible use of all our lands for the ultimate
good of the nation. And to the National Park
Service has been assigned the privilege of prepar-
ing that section of the report bearing upon recre-
ational uses. Not just the recreational use of the
national parks and allied areas under the jurisdic-
tion of the National Park Service, but recrea-
tional use of all lands throughout the country——
city, county, State and Federal. We have secured
recreational data from all cities with a population
of 5,000 or more, and from half the cities and
towns smaller than that: and, of course, from all
counties and States. \\’e are making an exhaus-
tive study of it all, to present to the main Board
and to the President a clear picture of the needs
of the Nation from the standpoint of our national
recreational life and of our future requirements
in this rapidly expanding field. For the well-
directed use of the increased leisure that faces our

people today is of the utmost importance.

465

400 IN OUR NATIONAL PARKS

The assignment to the National Park Service
of the preparation of this nation—wide recreational
report was in keeping with the duties of the Na-
tional Park Service as laid down by Congress in
Creating the bureau. The enabling legislation
placed upon the Service the duty of so protecting
the national parks, national monuments and other
areas consigned to its protection that they.would
be available for the enjoyment of present and
future generations. Last year President Roose-
velt reafiirmed the leadership of the bureau in the
field of Federal recreation when he consolidated
all Federal park activities in the National Park
Service, and when to it he delegated the responsi-
bility of directing emergency conservation work
in State parks and similar areas—work planned
primarily to improve the recreational values of
the areas in question.

In making this statement, I do not mean to im-
ply that we have an option on the development of
outdoor recreation on all national areas. Far from
it. \\'e are keenly interested in the expansion of
recreational use of all Federally-owned lands
where this as a secondary use is not in conflict
with their primary purposes, but where recrea-
tion and conservation for public enjoyment con—
stitute the primary use of any Federal lands. then
they logically come
under the jurisdiction
of the bureau designed
by Congress to admin—
ister them.

The function of the
National Park Service
in directing avocational
activities through park
use is manifold. By
providing the physical
Comforts necessary to
life in the open, it
it makes it possible for
millions of Americans
each year to vacation in
these areas, deriving
the benefit that accrues
to all in physical, spirit-
ual. and mental stinm-
hts through life in these
supreme wilderness
areas.

“me they are in the
parks. the next step is
to interest visitors in

a? 

   

some form of healthful activity. There are fish-
ing, mountain climbing, horseback riding. hiking,
swimming, and for a few months of the year some
skating, skiing, and other winter sports.

’iut all people are not inclined toward physical
exertion, and many of those who want some
definite objective toward which to direct their
energies; and so our educational staff—the nat-
uralists and historians—suggest to them ways
in which the superlative scenic and scientific fea-
tures may lie enjoyed to the utmost. Guided trips
and motor caravans are furnished, and also lec-
tures and museum service. On the hikes of vary-
ing duration the natural history and historic
objects encountered are explained. The motor
caravans lead to points of interest—in this park
to a prehistoric ruin. in that to a stupendous geo-
logical display. In Yellowstone one of the most
popular caravans is known as the game stalk. It
is made just before dusk, and visitors get a
mighty kick out of surprising a few deer here, a
moose there. And they go to the Buffalo Ranch
and get the story of how these picturesque ani-
mals were saved from extinction and now are
thriving, not only in Yellowstone but several other
places throughout this country and in Canada.

When a visit to the park is concluded, even the
least observing of visit-
ors goes away strength-
ened physically and with
mind swept clean of its
city cobweb by the clear
air of the mountains or
the desert. But the most
discriminating, he who
has drunk deeply of the
cup of pleasures the
park has to offer, has
found it an exalted
spiritual adventure. the
memory of which will
enrich all his days. To
such a one new fields of
thought have been open-
ed. An interest in the
study of wild life has
been aroused. a desire

Naiural beauiy greeis
ihe visiior in one of
our naiional parks

THE NATIONAL FORESTS 467

born to know more about trees and flowers, the
fascinating page of history and prehistory turned
back, or the story of the earth’s making spread
before him. So he goes home to study more about
the particular subject that has appealed to him.
The libraries yield books on the subject, the mu-
seums‘ offer supplementary material, and a new
avocational activity has been born.

\V e need no longer worry about the worthwhile
use of that person’s spare time. He will integrate
his leisure time activities into his normal life. For
most of the year he will follow his hobby in the
city, 'will know the joy of complete immersion in
books on subjects of absorbing interest. And in
vacation time we may be sure he again will go to
the outdoors, to some type of park or forest
whether nearby or far away, that offers the oppor-
tunity for further held investigation.

\\'hat I have just said does not express a wish
or an ideal, or even an isolated case. \Ve know
from actual experience how many people have
acquired entirely new interests through their trips
afield into nature's wonderlands. There is the
New Jersey broker who spends his spare time in
photographing the beauties of one particularly
colorful portion of our country, making slides,
and lecturing during the winter. There is another
busineSs man turned archeologist ; there are phy-
sicians of note who become naturalists, photogra-
phers and lecturers; there are the business and
professional men and women who each year turn
mountaineers, going out on the trails with or-
ganized outdoor and mountaineering clubs for
long or short trips. These instances may be mul-
tiplying a thousand-fold.

\Ve know, too, how the naturalist and historian
service appeals to the mass of our visitors. Last
year, when travel to many of the parks dropped,
the attendance at the field trips and lectures soar-
ed, and this year it has been in even greater de-
mand. We have an opportunity now to afford
mental stimulus to a large cross section of our
people from every part of the country, and we
must not fail. We must continue to provide rec-
reati0n———or perhaps I should say re-creation-—so
that the masses of our people may have the op-
portunities for the development of a more abnnd-
ant life. We must plan ahead, so that the new
leisure will not find us unprepared.

In closing, I want to leave you this remark by
Viscount Grey, that “If as the years go on we can
feel the beauty of the world as W ordsworth felt
it . . .. then we have. indeed, a recreation which

would give us not merely pleasure, but strength,
refreshment, and confidence.”

The National Forests
By L. F. KNEIPP

‘ Assistant Forester
Forest Service

E HAVE BEEN working feverishly for the

last quarter of a century trying to tell’about

the national forests and yet.few people
know much about them. There are 148 of these
areas with 180,000,000 acres of land within their
bonndaries, of which 162,000 acres actually be-
long to the United States. That is, about seven
and one—half per cent of the total land area of the
United States. The forests stretch throughout
much of the country and mark the summit of the
Cascades and the Sierras and Coast Ranges, the
Continental Divide, and the Rockies, the Appala—
chian Mountains and the VVhi'te Mountains, and
then they spread out in the Lake States and
Southern Pine States and adopt the map in a
large way. So, by their very distribution they are
in very close proximity to a considerable part of
the population of the United States.

In the old days when you saw a dim blue
streak along the horizon, it meant a long trip. But
now the farmer, weary of the heat and toil of the
day, can get in his car and be over in those moun-
tains in a very few hours. Roads have been mul-
tiplying and extending throughout these areas
almost to a regrettable extent, so that there is a
very wide use of the forests.

Within these forests you find a wide variety of
natural attractions, ranging literally all the way

‘from palm to pine, and desert to eternal snow.

We have glaciers on some of the forests, and we
have stretches of desert on others. They contain
every kind of a national phenomena that you can
find— peaks, canyons, gorges, streams, lakes,
cliffs and caves. A large proportion of the big
game animals are within the national forests and
we have 60,000 miles of fishing streams, although
we don’t guarantee that there are fish in all of
the waters!

The Need for Recreational Service

There has been some question as to the propri-
ety of allowing these public forests to be used for

403 THE NATIONAL FORESTS

recreational purposes,
as to whether it is a
proper function. R ut
we in the Forest Serv-
ice feel there isn’t the
slightest room for de-
bate on this subject.
There are the social
needs to be met of a
pOpulation of a 125,-
000,000 people, and lit-
erally millions of them
simply dwell in one cu-
bical and work in an-
other. shuttling back
and forth between the
two in a closed vehicle
of some kind, and never
seeing the manifesta-
tions of nature except
as the work of a land-
scape engineer. \Ve
have also millions of
people engaged in many
monotonous occupa-
tions, so that some change in
environment is actually in-
dispensable. These pe o ple
can't be crowded into one or two or more parks.
They must have room, and with all of these nor-
mal public properties available, they should be
used for those prime purposes.

Then, too, recreation has taken on a very real
economic complexion throughout the country.
There are literally hundreds of little towns out
west that formerly lived on grazing or mining or
logging, that have lost those economic occupa-
tions, but still are able to exist by selling gasoline
and taking care of tourists and organizing hunt-
ing parties. The markets created by these activi-
ties are a stimulus to industry. 50 there is a very
definite justification for this use.

The forest service type of recreational manage
ment is rather sketchy: it is not complex. There
is no close supervision or direction of the millions
of the people who use the forests. There is no
charge or permanent requirement for occupancy
of the forests. The only requirements are the
proper tare of fire and observance of good sani-
tary laws and practices.

In opening up the forests for recreational use
our primary objective is merely to protect public
preperty and public health. This use is marked

 

In our national forests the nature lover
will find his fondest dreams come true

by simplicity, although
you will find, in the
same forest, Indians
having their annual
“blow-out,” d i gg i n g
roots, or gathering nuts
down in the Southwest;
and you will also see
people there with Pierce
Arrow cars and the
most elaborate kind of
equipment. You will
find tags from five dif-
‘ferent states of the
Union on a single camp
ground. Over 8,000,000
people a year actually
make some definite oc-
cupancy of the forests:
5,000,000'come to ob-
serve their beauty, and
about 21,000,000 pass
through them. To pro-
vide for these people,
there have been about
4,200 public camp grounds
designated, of which 2,600
are improved at the present
time. By that I don't mean very elaborate im-
provements but the simple facilities necessary for
sanitation and lire prevention.

The CCC movement and the C\\’A and the
VERA and the l’\\’:\ have given an enormous
stimulus to that development. \\'e have made
more progress in the last year than we have made
in a decade prior to that time.

Other Facilities and Areas

Sometimes supplementing the grounds. or con-
tained in them, there are a number of areas that
are now definitely recognized as of outstanding
recreational value, and their use is planned. They
may include a camp ground, a summer hotel com-
munity, sites for several resorts. or outdoor
camps of the more simple type. In other words,
they are in a way summer recreational communi-
ties. with all of the elements properly balanced
and coordinated with one another.

Then we have delinite summer home areas.
Some of them contain as many as two or three
hundred homes, and with a very high degree of
local administration by connnittees for water de-
velopment and things of that sort. we have

CONSERVING OUR WILD LIFE 469

12,200 summer homes in the national forests at
the present time.

Certain areas are dedicated for the use of out—
door camps and resorts of different types, includ—
ing boy scout and girl scout camps. In Virginia
we gave up our finest camp grounds to the Girl
Scouts and they have now a very beautiful de—
velopment there at Harrisburg. In California,
several of the municipalities, notably Los Angeles,
have taken advantage of the ability to occupy
national forest lands and have constructed low
cost resorts which are very popular and very well
conducted.

As another measure of conserving and develop-
ing the interest of the forests, there has been
established sixty-eight primitive areas with about
ten million acres for the purpose of making sure
that there shall be no needless invasion of roads
and resorts and commercial institutions. In other
words, the objective is to maintain as nearly as
practicable primitive conditions of transportation,
habitation, subsistence and environment.

Stipplementing those, but dedicated more nearly
to scientific study, are eighteen natural areas in
which we are trying to maintain as nearly as pos-
sible primeval conditions, the original biological

complexities of both flower and fauns for pur—'

poses of observation. Over the years, as these ex-
amples of primitive nature are preserved, they
will have a very deep value both from an educa-
tional and inspirational standpoint. In addition
we have experimental forests.

Now the idea is rather prevalent that the use
of the national forests is only compatible with the
purposes for which they are set aside; that they
are destructive and unduly increase hazards. We
find after years of experience that is not true.
Naturally, there is some additional risk to public
health and public property when you have mil-
lions of people in an area, but that can be guarded
against.

It is true that some adjustments are necessary
in the use of these forests. For instance, there
has to be some water development. Then, again,
in other cases recreation has to be made subordi—
nate to other activities, but it can all be worked
out, and is being worked out, so that there is no
sacrifice. The advantages clearly outweigh the
disadvantages.

The Forest Service feels that it is under obli—
gation not merely to tolerate that use, but actually
to encourage it, to promote it, not to an extrava—
gant degree, but to permit of its normal develop-

ment in the use of the forests. it is a use that can
go on together with several other uses at the
same time. Trees grow, for example, in these
areas, just the same as though they were not used.
As a matter of fact, before and after the summer
season cattle and sheep can graze there without
any serious interference. So we can conceive of it
as a part of the service to carry on this process of
deve10pment.

Now the question arises, just what can the Na-
tional Recreation Association do? Your activities
have been largely in the urban areas up until this
time, and yet it seems. to me that before you there
is a field in the national forests for the same type
of leadership, of direction and inspiration, that
you have in the urban areas. And through such
leadership, which I hope you will develop in time,
you can do just that much more to enrich life.

we have also appreciated the praise and the co-
0peration of the National Recreation Association,
and we have a very definite desire to cooperate
with you. We hope that over the years to come
that spirit of cooperation will come into full
flower.

Conserving Our Wild Life

By J. N. DARLING
Chief I

Bixreau of Biological Survey

1113 BUREAU OF BIOLOGICAL SURVEY is the cus-
T todian of all of the wild life species that exist.

Noah started it. I think he must have been
the first member of the Biological Survey! He
built the ark to save a pair of all wild life. The
only difference between Noah and my personal,
experience is that he started out in a flood and I
started out in a drought. And we have had some
problems of this year with keeping even a balance
of the already depleted ranks of our game species,
our song birds and all of the interesting elements
of our natural endowment.

It isn’t altogether the sportsman and the hunter
that we have to contend with in maintaining a
fair population of game. We have invaded all of
the national ranges, the homes of our wild life
species. We have evicted them and spread our—
selves out with all of our paraphernalia and our
implements, and civilization now reigns where

470 CONSERII’ING OUR ~IVILD LIFE

game used to live. In fact, we have thrown
nature's eradle out the window and made our
home where nature used to cradle its wild life
species.

\Ve have driven game back to the river mar-
gins, the raw ragged edges of this country. \Ve
did the same thing to the Indians, pushing them
out on the deserts and about the only difference
between our treatment of the Indian and wild life
is that we have quit shooting the Indians. \\'e
go on taking our ducks and geese and game species
just as if nothing ever happened to them, and
every game commissioner and custodian of wild
life in the country is berated when people go out
for their recreation and don't get their full bag
limit of game or catch all of the 'tish they want
in that dayl Therefore, the job which I have is
to Save what we have. to make a plan to put it

back.

You may say, “what relation does that have to
our problem of recreation ?"

Well, I don’t suppose they called it recreation
in the early pioneer days of this country. If
they didn't get their game, the table was empty,
and the stories they told at bed time were not the
stories of little Johnny l’ossum and so forth. in
those days, but they were about the narrow
escapes that father had when he went out to get
the meal for the family.

\\’e have changed from the old period when
game was a part of our life, but the instinct still
remains with us. We have traded our old hunting
stories for bed time stories. but there is a certain
fineness of mind, a certain Fineness of coordina-
tion of the body and the eye and the mind in ad-
thsting oneself and pitting one's wits against wild
life. It is natural that we should have that in-
stinct. We are only one generation removed
from it.

I don't advocate that you tell people to go out
and kill game but I do think that if you are going
to build trails, if you are going out on a trip
through good roads through the forests. there
ought to be some of the remnants to look at.

If you like to hunt with a camera, you must
have something worth going out to see. and if we
don't protect our wild life. there will be nothing
to photograph. As a matter of fact I believe that
all recreational games are built on the instincts
which grew out of our original sustenance. Even
following a gold ball around has some semblance
of the old Contests of putting your wits against
the wild life which you had to conquer. If you

made a better bag and a better shot you stood
well in the eonnnunity.

I don't like to see those old elements of natural
life pass out of the picture. and still. with the con-
stant encroachment upon nature's areas, with
agriculture pulverizing all of the natural fields
where our upland birds used to live. with the ef-
fort to drain all of the old marshes and lakes in
order that we may make more farm lands, with
the pollution of the rivers and all the careless,
thoughtless things that we do. we are gradually
taking out of our lives this element. which I think
is well worth preserving. I doubt whether any
youth who goes forth will be as much interested
in any subject as in the natural life to which he is
entitled and of which we have robbed him.

\Ve have taken it as a matter of course that
nature provided us with .a free gift of all of the
ducks we wanted. \\"e have never had to worry
about the myraids that have gone North in the
spring, and South in the fall. Now we know that
if we don't watch out we won't have any. Some
of the very choicest species are on the verge of
extinction.

You can't control the natural enemies of game.
and the only thing you can control is man's habit
of taking it. That is why we are out of favor just
now with the lumtsmen. because of the extra re-
strictions we have been forced to put on them to
keep the killing of game down. \ll'e never thought
about hatching more ducks. \\'e have robbed
them of seventeen million acres of natural nesting
areas in the North Central States of the United
States. once the most prolific hatching ground in
all of our migratory water fowl in this country.
Seventeen million acres we have taken out to no
prime purpose.

That doesn’t seem like a well-planned civiliza-
tion, does it? Especially since we find by actual
records that the old nesting areas of ducks made
more money from the muskrat skins every year
than we have made from a farm product since.
I think it takes something like a depression. and
a period like this to teach us our follies. and we
are commencing actually to do some planning.

W'e are planning what we may do to take the
pollution out of the rivers and my particular job
right now is to get back those old marshes, to
stop up the drainage ditches, put water in where
it formerly made a'pleasant picture on the land-
scape. to restore the old lake bottoms. to divert
streams that have been hurried off down the river,
and impound water in those North Central areas.

0

AGRICULTURE AND RECREATION 471

You, perhaps, that is all of you who live East
of the Mississippi, for instance, noticed a peculiar
phenomenon last summer. For several days a
great cloud appeared in the sky, moved eastward
until the lights in our buildings here in \Vash—
ington, and in New York City had to be turned
on in the middle of the day that we might see.
They called it here a dust storm. {It was a sign in
the sky of the folly of man in his haste to get
rich, destroying the covering of vegetation that
kept the dirt where it belonged.

Now, those problems of conservation perhaps
are not wild life, but in that great prairie area
where that dust comes from, first the grass and
the covering had been gnawed to the roots, the
wind came and blew the grass away, then it took
the top soil, and now it must be restored.

I have $8,500,000 for the Bureau’s work—not
a vast amount, but it represents the first money
that has ever been put into nesting areas to re-
store our game. I hope that some day the
$8,500,000 will produce about one million and a
quarter acres of old nesting ground. That ought
to produce about 8,000,000 extra ducks and geese
and migratory water fowl to pass backward and
forward.

That is not all. The new program of wild life
management includes the restoration of environ—
ment. We are putting on erosion control; we are
planting the raw hillsides. We spent too much
time clearing up all of the underbrush, and we
have no place for our wild life to live.

\Ve are not doing all this for the hunters. I
should not be here if all that I was doing was
making it possible for people to go out and kill
game. My chief interest lies in restoring America
to itself.

Agriculture and Recreation

By C. W. WARBURTON
DirectorI Extension Service
Department of Agriculture

HE FEDERAL Department of Agriculture c0—
T operating with State agricultural colleges, is

carrying on Extension work in agriculture
and home economics with rural people throughout
the entire United States, including Hawaii,Alaska.
and Puerto Rico. The work is being conducted in
about 2,800 rural counties through technically-

trained public agents located permanently in the
counties, who work directly with rural people on
the farms and in the homes.‘ The counties help
finance the enterprise in each c0unty.

The present staff for this work is made up of
about 6,500 government—paid agents and about
430,000 voluntary lay local leaders. Through these
agents and local leaders, approximately 1,380,000
men and women and 920,000 rural youth 10 to 20
years of age are aided in their work by demon-
strations showing the better ways of farming,
home making and living. Along with their numer-
ous responsibilities in teaching improved practices
in farming and home making, the 6,500 Extension
agents employed, with the cooperation of their
430,000 local leaders, are carrying out programs
designed to improve the social, the spiritual, and
the recreational life of farm people.

Recreational Phases of Extension Programs

The social and recreational phases of the Ex-
tension programs include such activities as com-
munity singing and music appreciation, plays,
games and pageants, camps, contests and exhibits,
debates and public speaking, reading, tOUrs,
achievement days, vesper services, picnics, folk
dancing, and other ways of bringing rural peo-
ple together, both young and old, for social en-
joyment. It is the definite aim of the Extension
worker in every county to incorporate some or all
of these forms of recreation in their county pro-
pram and to promote certain activities in every
local community, depending, of course, upon the
tastes and desires of the people to be served. It
is clearly recognized that accomplishments in some
of these lines of recreation have not been up to
what might be expected, due to inadequate lead-
ership in counties and in local communities. A
comparatively small percentage of these Exten-
sion workers have had special training in recrea—
tional activities, yet we feel that under these con-
ditions much already has been accomplished in
this phase of our Extension work.

The Federal Extension Service feels deeply in-
debted to the National Recreation Association,
through the constructive services rendered by
John Bradford, W. P. Jackson,’Jack Knapp, Doc-
tor Parker, and others of its staff, for assistance
in helping to train State and local leaders in the
real place and underlying philosophy of recrea-
tion in life and in methods of conducting different
recreational activities. Miss Ella Gardner of the
Children’s Bureau also has given Extension forces

472 AGRICULTURE AND RECREATION

outstanding help in training local leaders and in
promoting recreation in rural areas. The men and
women trained as local recreation leaders by
these men and women run into the thousands
annttally.

Now for a 'few figures: In 1933, Extension
ageneies promoted 22,000 events, featuring all
manner of agricultural and home exhibits. They
promoted 10,000 farm and home tours for adults
and juniors.

The local leaders trained by Extension agents
and helpers from the N. R. A. held over 150,000
meetings of various kinds with adults, at whieh
no paid Extension agents were present, while in
the case of juniors the local leaders, without the
assistance of paid Extension agents, held over
200.000 meetings with over 3,700,000 people in
attendanee. At these meetings, music, eommunity
singing, public speaking, plays, and games were
featured. Training local reereation leaders does
wOrk.

There were 1,360 agrieultural and home demon-
stration agents who reported 13,300 eommunities
whieh were developing and carrying ottt recrea-
tional programs. Closely related to the recreation
programs, and in many instances an essential part
of them, 1,500 agrieultnral and home demonstra-
tion agents reported 16,230 communities in which
4-H elub members had engaged in eommunity
aetivities.

Community singing and music appreeiation
stand out as two of the main recreational activi-
ties in whieh large numbers of rural people par-
tieipatc. Community singing is an old form of
rural recreation. ln many rural eommunities
where this form of diversion had ceased to be
active the Extension Service has taken an active
hand in reviving it. Singing always has an im-
portant place in the programs of State and local
camps held by county Extension agents. Some
counties have annual music festivals which are
Sponsored by the Extension organization. Music
and drama tournaments are held in some eonnties
to provide Opportunity for rural people to develOp
their musical talents.

Plays. games, and pageants are other forms of
recreation which Extension workers are conduct-
ing along with their other lines of aetivity. The
value of plays and games in which the whole com-
munity can participate is emphasized. Practically
all of the States publish bulletins whieh eontain
a variety of plays, games, and pageants for the
use of Extension workers and local peOple in ear-

rying on these forms of recreation. Extension
agents stimulated the produetion of over 7,500
plays and pageants in 1933.

Many annual camps are held for boys and girls
from 10 to 20 years of age who are 4-H elub
members. In 1933 there were 1,770 of these
junior eamps, attended by 170,000 members. These
camps sometimes held at one central point in a
State, and other times at several different points,
have extensive reereation programs. At these
camps, boys and girls learn how to direct games
and plays and other such activities, so that when
they return to their communities they are quali-
tied to help instruct others in these activities. The
elub eamps usually are held for a period of three
days to a week. Camps are likewise held for adult
farm men and women and are growing in number
from year to year. In 1933 there were 700 camps
for rural women alone, with 84,000 women in at-
tendance. At the women's eamps, there are educa-
tional, recreational, and social events. The work
of the catnps is done by hired help and the rural
women in attendanee get away from all forms of
household work and have a complete ehange of
scenery.

Contests, exhibits and tours have their place as
important reereational aetivities in most Exten-
sion programs. In like manner, reading, debates,
and publie speaking are emphasized, particularly
with 4-H elub members. Some States, however,
plaee emphasis on these forms of reereation with
adult farmers and farm homemakers.

Community picnics are a form of diversion
whieh our Extension workers are stressing among
farm people. Farmers' \Veek at the State agri-
eultural eolleges, at which thousands of farm
families assemble annually, is a form of rural
recreation which has grown in popularity in recent
years.

In closing, may I say that we are looking for-
ward in our thinking to one or more rural recrea-
tion leaders in every State extension staff, who
will train all the Extension forces of the State,
including the agrieultural home demonstration,
and club agents in counties, and help these agents
train loeal recreational leaders from each com-
munity in each rural eounty, to the end that,
wherever and whenever rural peOple assemble,
their program may be made up in part of educa-
tional instruetion, in part of music, play and ree-
reation, and in part of social enjoyment. We hope.
also, in time to develop a Federal recreational staff
that will act as a clearing house of information

CHILDREN’S BUREAU PROMOTES RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITY 473

and help in recreational matters in the States, a
function now so happily and satisfactorily handled
through cooperation with the National Recrea-
tion Association. May that Association live long

and prosper ! .

Children’s Bureau Promotes
Recreational Opportunity

By KATHARINE F. LENROOT

Acting Chief. Children's Bureau
U. S. Department of Labor

HE CHILDREN’S BUREAU was established by

Congress twenty-two years ago to serve the

interests 'of all children. Through investiga-
tions and technical reports, popular bulletins for
parents, demonstrations of methods, and coopera-
tive and advisory services to States, local com-
munities and voluntary groups, the Bureau has en-
deavored to promote more abundant life for
American childhood in terms of physical, mental
and social health and well—being. It has used all
these approaches to the extent which its resources
have permitted in promoting wholesome recrea-
tional activities.

Studies of public dance halls, of recreational
resources in Puerto Rico, and of leisure-time ac-
tivities of rural children in selected areas of one
State (West Virginia) have been made and re-
ports of the findings have been published. Popu—
lar bulletins for parents on The Child from One
to Six, of which 2,224,878 copies have been dis.—
tributed without charge and an additional 560,103
have been sold, on Guiding the Adolescent, and
on Good Posture in the Little Child, contain sec-
tions on recreation. A handbook for the Use of
administrators of institutions for dependent chil—
dren contains a chapter on the organization of
recreational activities, and the report of a study
of mothers’ pension administration includes a sec-
tion on provision for the recreational needs of the
children in families receiving mothers’ aid. Special
recreational material that has been published in-
cludes a game manual of activities adapted to
small children, a manual of games for blind chil-
dren, a folder giving suggestions for the construc—
tion of backyard playgrounds, and a mimeo-
graphed outline of suggestions for recreational
surveys in small communities.

The recreational service which has brought the

Children’s Bureau into the closest personal con—
tact with recreation leaders throughout the coun—
try has been the assistance given in developing
recreation programs for rural groups, in coopera- -
tion with the Extension Divisions of the Federal
and State Departments 0f.Agriculture. Requests
for such service have come from all parts of the
country, and assistance has been given to more
than a third of the States, in some cases throygh
repeated visits. The time of the Bureau worker
was often promised a year in advance. The pro-
gram has included training courses for recreation
leaders, demonstrations and special programs for
such groups as 4-H and farm women’s groups,
farm bureau meetings, home demonstration agents
and groups in training at State universities and
normal schools.

During the past two years greater attention has
been given to urban areas, especially small towns.
At the request of Parent-Teacher Associations,
Federated Clubs, and Business and Professional
VVomen’s Clubs, courses for volunteer recreation
leaders and assistance in developing community
programs have been given.

The close relationship of constructive leisure—
time opportunities and the prevention of delin-.-
quency has been emphasized. It is impossible to
plan for the reduction of delinquency or for the
care of delinquent children without giving careful
consideration to the development and coordination
of recreational resources. Seventy—five per cent of
the boys included in the Glueck’s study of 1,000
juvenile delinquents had had no connection what—
ever with supervised clubs or recreational groups.
In contrast, two—thirds had been gainfully em-
ployed, at an average age when beginning work
of I 3 years, the highest proportion in street trades.
Stimulation of community resources for whole-
some recreation is one of the principal objectives
of the Los Angeles Coordinating Councils and
similar councils in other cities organized to pre-
vent delinquency and enrich child life.

Prevention of Delinquency

The Children’s Bureau is now in the third year
of a project for the prevention and treatment of
delinquency and the training of students for work
with delinquents in a mile—square_area of Chicago
——adj0ining the stockyard districte—a project car-
ried on in cooperation with the University of
Chicago and the Cook County Juvenile Court.
The project involves services to individual chil-
dren by a psychiatrist, psychologist and social

474 CHILDREN'S BUREAU PROMOTES RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITY

workers, and organization of recreational re-
sources adapted to the needs of the children and
young people as disclosed through individual
study. The Bureau’s specialist in recreation was
assigned to the project during the past summer,
and a recreation worker is on the project regular
staff. A community council in the area sponsors
the recreation program, which includes baseball,
nelghborhood play, and dramatic, musical and
dancing prOgrams. Emergency relief workers
have been recruited and, under staff leadership.
are playing with the children in the streets, visit-
ing the neighbors in order to enlist their interest
and assistance in forming adult and junior groups,
and offering special help in dramatics, languages
and music.

The psychiatrist on the project is of the opin-
ion that delinquent behavior can be lessened to the
extent that recreation facilities are extended and
planned to serve the needs of individual children.
Many large-scale recreation and leisure-time move-
ments are limited in their effectiveness with re-
spect to children who from an early age have been
subjected to the over—stimulation and freedom of
street life in the crowded sections of our cities.
There is much to be worked out in the develop-
ment of recreation programs for individuals and
small groups. reaching them on their own level
and in their own streets and neigthrhoods, and
closely correlated with agencies equipped to deal
on a case-work basis with families and children in
special needs.

Studies of the welfare of children in families
of dependent or marginal economic status now
being made by the Children's Bureau in several
communities are revealing the appalling meager-
ness of the recreational resources in these famil-
ies. In one fatnily of father, mother. and six chil-
dren from 8 to 18 years of age, living in a base-
ment dwelling, the mother said they “never went
anywhere, belong to no clubs, could afford no
movies—the children slept a lot." A boy of 18
and girl of 1.; were asleep when the agent called
at 11 o'clock in the morning (during the summer-
vacation period). A family of six children re-
ported that their only recreation was the weekly
period of three hours when the street was closed
for play. A mother of five children
ranging from 9 to 16 years of age
said they “just played on the street:
the older ones spent every evening
in the house: they belonged to no
clubs, and never went to the mov-

"Education has helped us to
acquire leisure time for rec-
reation; it must also help to
prepare peeple for the use
of this leisure."

ies." "All we ever do is sit around and talk,” com-
mented one mother. Preliminary tabulations of
2,187 unemployed boys and girls 14 to 20 years
of age in Chicago showed that nearly three-fourths
used no type of social or recreational center. Rec-
reation for mothers and fathers, as well as for
children, as a child-welfare measure, was empha-
sized recently by a group of Federal relief super-
visors. Frayed nerves and inability ever to get
away from the terrific strain and monotony which
unemployment brings have their fruit in irrita-
bility, lack of judgment, and sometimes fiagrant
Cruelty and abuse of children.

The Children’s Bureau in all its approaches to
the problems of childhood recognizes that boys
and girls must be given opportunities for creative
experience in their formative years. Families,
under modern conditions. can afford only limited
opportunities for accomplishment and adventure.
Gainful employment increasingly is being reserved
for the mature.

Intelligent community planning, with State and
National leadership, through official and volun-
tary agencies, for the educational and social needs
of children must be recognized as an essential
part of our developing social organization.

Recreation and the Office
' of Education

By BESS GOODYKOONTZ
Aissistant Commissioner of Education

promote education for persons of all ages, and

this is equivalent to saying that the Office is a
promoter of recreation in a great variety of forms.
If recreation had to do only with batting a ball or
climbing a mountain my statement would be ques-
tioned, but vastly more persons find recreation in
reading than in playing golf, and the ups and
downs of a crossword puzzle occupy the leisure
moments of many more of us than do the path-
ways in the ascent to high altitudes. In our
schools we have always taught
those fundamental and most im-
portant means of recreation, read-
ing and spelling and writing and
the use of words and figures. It is
a commonplace. therefore. to say

IT is THE function of the Office of Education to

RECREATION AND THE OFFICE OF EDUCATION 475

that the Office of Education collects and distri-
butes information on the most effective methods
of teaching reading and writing, Spelling and
arithmetic, the means of recreation for many. We
are so accustomed to attaching to these subjects a
utilitarian purpose that we forget how highly im-
portant they are in the occupation of our leisure
moments.

Information about recreation sounds like a dull
enough subject, but actually it forms the basis of
improvements in school programs leading to the
better use of leisure time. During the past several
years publications of the Office have represented
a fairly wide range of emphasis on recreational
activities. One study completed last year sum-
marized the library facilities and promising prac-
tices in library training in elementary schools
throughout the country. There can be no doubt
that the consumption of literature is enormously
increased and we believe improved by the tasting
and sampling that even limited elementary school
libraries supply. This has not come about without
considerable direction on the part of libraries and
schools. Our continuous series on school library
practices and standards has been based on the
belief that we have not yet nearly reached the
point of adequacy in school library facilities.

Summer camps have grown remarkably in num-
her, in enrollment, and in public esteem for edu-
cational and recreational purposes in the last few
years. Publications on the type and availability
of camps, on standards and practices, have been
issued by the Office periodically.

Still another way of promoting the leisure in-
terests of children is to give their teachers some
of them during the summer time. Recently all
sorts of exhilarating experiments have been de-
veloped in summer school programs, combining
travel and study, camping and study, field work
in natural and social sciences. We have special-
ized each spring lately in publications which en-
courage teachers to play as they study, by de-
scribing at length the Opportunities waiting for
them during their summer vacations.

In quite another field we are now making a
study of the facilities for the teaching of music in
public schools. It is well known that the last four
years have seen a distinct drop in the resources
available in public schools for recreational and
cultural subjects—music, art, physical education
and play, library service, and other elements of an
all-round program have been ruthlessly and il-
logically eliminated in the name of economy.

Fortunately there are evidences of buildingfback
and building rather more soundly in some of these
fields. Possibly the reconstructive process may
really result in a better integrated program, with
less compartmenting of art, music, literature, and
other cultural studies. Many of these studies
bearing upon recreational problems represent, not
research, certainly, but investigations of a dis-
tinctly promotional flavor. This we recognize as
a prime responsibility of our Office.

A second major responsibility in the field of
recreation is that of administering and financing
education programs 'which contribute to the bet-
ter use of leisure. Through the Vocational Edu-
cation Division of the Office nearly eight million
dollars of Federal funds were distributed this past
year to the States for the promotion of State pro-
grams of vocational education. These programs
provide particularly for three groups: First, boys
and girls who are taking vocational courses in the
public schools; second, young workers who have
dropped out of full—time day school and have en-
rolled in vocational courses for part-time instruc—
tion, and third, employed adult workers in evening
classes for training along the lines of their daily
employment. This may seem a far cry from recre-
ation, but there are two important recreational
aspects of this distinctly vocational program.
First, the part-time and evening classes represent
in themselves a worthy use of unemployed time,
contributing to better vocational efficiency to be
sUre, but contributing in many aspects also to a
more all-around interest in public affairs; and
second, it is recognized that the line between the
vocational and recreational purposes of study is
a very hazy line indeed, indistinguishable for
many individuals. One person studies typewrit-
ing for fun, another as a vocational outlet. One
person studies millinery just in order to have an-
other hat; another studies it because it is a pos-
sible way of earning a living. This vocational
program administered in cooperation with the
States serves each year more than a million per-
sons in normal times and represents in itself a
rather large contribution to the constructive use

of leisure.

The Plight of Youth

But conditions, educational and recreational,
have not been normal the last few years, and new
occasions have taught new duties. During this
present period of unemployment opportunities for

(Continued on page 502)

The Educational Program
in the

By
CLARENCE S. MARSH, Ph.D.

Educational Director
Civilian Conservation Corps

m—t EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM now being con-

ducted in the camps of the Civilian Conser—

vation Corps is a great American folk school
movement. Let me mention some characteristics
of the folk school as I see it. It is an educational
enterprise for adults and older youths growing
out of the native culture of a people but devel0p-
ing and expanding that culture by helping the peo-
ple to learn the things that are of most interest or
importance to them. It is not imposed from above,
it does not prescribe an individual's curriculum, it
meets the immediate needs and interests of the
people. in the folk school one group may be
studying its social and economic problems. an0ther
its vocational problems. while still another may be
satisfying its yearning for self expression. If you
accept this definition or its equivalent. the educa-
tional program now going on in CCC camps is a
great American Folk School, as 1 shall attempt to
show you.

It is a conservative estimate to say that during
the present fourth enrollment period which began
October first and extends to March 3!, 1935. ap-
proximately 200,000 of the 350.000 men in CCC
camps will voluntarily enroll in study groups to
meet in the evenings during their spare time, to
learn some things that they really want to know,
to take part in lively discussions. Free from tra-
dilions and taboos. this great informal. varied
adult educational enterprise in these camps gives
to many men a vivid intellectual awakening.

The CCC camps are operated by the United
States Army. When the
first camps were set up
in the spring of t933.
the War Department
promptly saw the need

476

Civilian Conservation Corps

of an educational program and organized one.
Before long it became obvious that the oflicers in
charge of camps were so heavily burdened with
other duties that it was unfair to expect them to
conduct an educational program. The present edu-
cational plan approved by President Roosevelt. by
Mr. Robert Fechner, the Director of Emergency
Conservation \Vork, by the United States Com-
missioner of Education. the \\'ar Department. and
other Government officials, provides that the
United States Office of Education shall select and
appoint the teaching personnel and serve the War
Department in an advisory capacity on educa-
tional policies. materials, and procedures. All who
are concerned realize that effective rehabilitation
of men in camps demands not only that they be
fed and clothed and given work to do. but also
that in their spare time they be given the utmost
opportunity to learn about the world in which
they live and their relation to it.

During this present enrollment period. there
will be in CCC camps approximately 290,000
young men between the ages of 18 and 25. and
approximately 70.000 war veterans and woods-
men. At the present time an educational program
is provided for only 1,468 camps originally au-
thorized, but it is hoped that the program will be
extended to the remaining camps more recently
organized for men from the twenty-two drouth
States. Enrollment is for a six months’ period
with possible re-cnrolhnent for the succeeding
period.

The present educational plan, approved by the
President last December, was organized immedi-
ately and put into operation during the spring. lt

One of the more recently created services of the Federal
Government was also described at the Recreation Congress

THE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM IN THE C. C. C. 477

has been going at full strength only during the
summer months. The plan called for an educa-
tional adviser in each camp who, under the direc-
tion of the Camp Commander, would deve10p an
educational program suited to the needs and in—
terests of the men in the camp. Budgetary limita-
tions have made it impossible to appoint more
than about 1,100 of these camp educational ad—
visers so that a considerable number of them have
to serve two camps.

Now these camp educational advisers are a well
trained lot of men. These figures are impressive:
92 per cent of them have college or university de-
grees; 31 per cent have Master’s degrees; three
per cent have Doctor’s degrees. Seventy—eight
per cent have had teaching experience; 32 per
cent had been principals, supervisors, or superin-
tendents.

In addition to a camp adviser who is, in most
instances, a trained and experienced teacher, we
have in each of these'I,468 camps an enrollee
chosen to assist the educational adviser. Those
two groups of men who give their full time to the
educational program in camps, together with the
necessary administrative and supervising educa-
tional staff give us a total of 2,580 full-time per-
sons whose sole job is to teach or supervise in the
CCC educational program. Moreover. in addition
to these there are many part—time instructors such
as the Company Commander and his lieutenants,
the Company physician, the forester: technically
trained foremen, teachers, lecturers, and others
from near-by communities. A very conservative
estimate would place the number of these part-
time teachers at 5,000.
To summarize, it is con-
servatively estimated that
7,580 persons are giving
full time or part time to
the educational program
in camps. 3

How do we work to-
ward those aims? In
every way that the gen-
ius of educational advis—

tive endeavor.

ditions.

erg can devise, Another 4. To preserve and strengthen good habits of
health and of mental development.

5. By such vocational training as is feasibleI but

particularly by vocational counseling and ad-
iustment activities, to assist each man better

to meet his employment problems when he

r e m a r k a b l e statement
contained in the Hand-
book reads as follows:
“There is no program

planned outside the camp leaves Camp.

311d imposed from above- From I'The Handbook for the Educational
Advisers in CCC Camps.II

The program must be

OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM

I. To develop in each man his powers of self-
expressionI self-entertainment and self-culture.

2. To develop pride and satisfaction in coopera-

. To develop as far as practicable an under-
standing of the prevailing social and economic
conditions. to the end that each man may co-
operate intelligently in improving these con-

worked out for each camp separately. Individual
counseling, guidance, and stimulation are the keys
to the selection of materials. Informal study,
reading, and discussion will characterize the meth-
ods probably used most largely. Do not rely too
much upon class instruction as usually carried on
in school or college.”

Do you wonder that we think of this as a great
folk school movement? The men in a given camp
study what they want to know, and the pr0gram
of study in that camp may be different from that
of any other camp in the country. I repeat again
that participating is voluntary. If a camp educa-
tional adviser cannot organize an educational pro—
gram in his camp so that a goodly number of men
enjoy participation in it, he must resign. Our as—
sumption is that learning is a pleasurable exercise
and that groups of_ adults under competent guid-
ance and leadership will gather together in their
spare time to study and discuss subjects of inter-
est to them. The response in the camps confirms

our assumption.

The Camp Set-Up and Program

I 110pe you have in your mind a picture of a
camp set—up. Since the work jobs of these camps
lie mostly in the forests and parks, the camps are
largely in forests and parks. Picture this set-up'
At the head of a company street perhaps two
blocks long is the camp heaquarters building
housing the offices of the camp officers; near-by
is a small camp hospital building; along one side
of the company street is the camp mess hall, a
long low building; and beyond that the recreation
hall. Beyond that is apt
to be a boxing ring, a
baseball diamond, and
other recreation facili-
ties. Across the company
street from the mess hall
and the recreation hall
are four long low bar-
racks buildings at right
angles to the street. Some
camps have put up small
buildings or tents in
which classes may be
held, but by and large.
there are no special fa-
cilities of that sort. Dis-
cussion g r o u p s and
classes meet in the mess
hall, in partitioned cor-

478 THE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM IN THE C. C. C.

ners of the recreation hall, in the offices of the
Company Commander and the educational ad-
viser, in a corner of the barracks. in fact any
where that men can sit down and talk. A few
camps, to be sure, do have what they call a camp
school house. I recall one such out in Idaho.
constructed out of lumber front an abandoned
sawmill which the Camp Commander bought for
ten dollars out of company funds. Under the
direction of the camp educational adviser the men
of the camp built this school house about 40 by
20 feet in size. From some source they secured
an old bell which mounted in the cupola was
proudly rung to call men to class. It is significant
that a school house is in that camp. It is most
significant that the men wanted it so much that
they built it in their own spare time.

The \Var Department supplies each camp with
a library. Near-by town and city librarians,
county librarians, state librarians and university
librarians have been exceedingly helpful. The
American Library Association has taken a keen
interest in this whole educational program.

One of our major problems has been satisfac-
tory text material. iooks are too costly; many of
them are too dull to hold the interest of men who
have been out of school for years. Text books
seem to be written for children or else for
students at the college level. Too few books meet
camp needs of simple vocabulary, suitable pre-
sentation of materials for adults and type large
enough to be easily read by the light available in
camp buildings. tear in mind that many camps,
far from power lines, must have their own elec-
tric light plants.

To meet this need the General Education Board
provided last June a fund of $40,000 as a grant
to the American Council on Education for the
preparation of suitable study material in the social
sciences. Pamphlets are now in progress, written
especially for enrollees in CCC camps.

I cannot omit this opportunity to pay tribute to
school principals and superintendents who have
opened their school buildings at night to men in
near-by camps. iy truck loads men go from
camps to use the shops and laboratories and class
rooms thus provided.

Typical Camp Programs

What do these men in camps want to study?
The answer is almost everything. The subjects
are as varied as human interests. Here are two
typical camp programs:

CCC COMPANY 769—INDIANOLA, IOWA

Average
Subject Attendance Taught By
Auto Mechanics 35 E. C. \V.
General Mathematics 4 Local Teacher
Highway Construction 12 Eng—Res.
Aviation 18 Educ. Adviser
Forestry 15 E. C. W'.
Typing 15 Selectee
Bible Study 12 Local Man
Reading and W'riting 4 Educ. Adviser
Surveying 8 E. C. \V.
Safety and First Aid 200 Med-Res.
Cooking and Baking 15 FA-Res.
Church 40 Ministers
Operation and Care of
Grading Machinery 4 E. C. W'. Staff
Glee Club 50 Col. Simpson
Journalism 5 Selectee
Carpentry 12 Local carpenter
Electricity 8 Local Electrician
Shorthand 9 Educ. Adviser
Dramatics 20 Selectee
General Science 30 E. C. \V.
CCC COMPANY 512—PUTNEY, KENTUCKY
Average
Subject Attendance
Recent \Vorld Events 18
Reading, \Vriting, Arithmetic, Spelling 13
Penmanship 11
English 6
Business Arithmetic 9
Letter \Vriting 16
Public Speaking 11
Forestry 17
Journalism publish paper
Telegraphy 3
Typing 16
Auto Mechanics 9
Agriculture 3
Shorthand 11
Stamp Club 5
String Orchestra 6
Boxing 12
Group Singing 25
PhotOgraphy 10
Lettering 3

Many camps publish weekly newspapers in
mimeographed form. These are usually the
product of a class in English or journalism.

Much teaching on the job is done by forenten
who frequently are engineering graduates. In one
camp that I visited the educational adviser brings
all of these foremen together one night a week
for a kind of seminar discussion of ways and
means to teach on the job, so that enrollees while
doing the day's work develop increasing skill.

You will note that the subjects may be grouped
roughly under four headings: Vocational sub-
jects; fundamental subjects, such as reading. writ-
ing, arithmetic; academic subjects, to be found in
the elementary, high school, and college curricu-
lums; and sel f «expression or recreational subjects.
A partial list of this last group is singing, dancing,
public speaking, drawing, painting, modeling, dra-

(Contmrmf an rage 503)

The Contribution of Recreation

There are certain obligations to the
unemployed outside of relief which
the Federal Government and the com-
munities cannot escape.

‘-

with Dr. Finley and with all of you people.

The last time I was with you at one of these
Congresses, about fifteen years ago, I had one
of the greatest thrills of my life, and I met a
lot of people then——people I have never for-
gotten, people who made a very deep impres-
sion on my life. Onc of those very dear spirits
was \Vill R. Reeves and I still honor his
memory for all that he did for Cincinnati and
for all he did for me and thousands of others.
So I feel very happy to be here.

I want to talk very simply about a problem
with which all of us are very much concerned.
Some of us are probably a little more con-
cerned with it than others because it is right
on our desks hour by hour and we must do
somcthing about it. That is the problem of thc
millions of our neighbors and of our people, many
of them in our own families, who are now
absolutely destitute, and of the many other
millions who are growing daily more destitute.

The topic' you asked me to talk about is
“Recreation and Recovery.” I suppose there
are people who will wonder why these two
things should be linked together among serious
and thoughtful people. Of course, none of you
will think that for a moment, and I am glad
I can truthfully say that the number who
question the wisdom of linking these two
things are growing fewer all the time. I think,
howevcr. it might be profitable even for us and
for the sake of our own thinking to consider
as objectively as we can what this thing really
means.

As I see it our job is fundamentally the task
of trying to provide people with work, with an
opportunity to earn a living for themselves and

I FEEL VERY GREATLY honored to be here tonight

to

Recovery

By AUBREY WILLIAMS ;
Assistant Director
Federal Relierc Administration

their families. That is our fundamental obliga-
tion and nothing can take its place, nothing
that we can do here no matter how fine it may
be. There is no point in not recognizing this
truth.

In this problem of unemployment I think
there are things we can do of which we as a
people, as a nation, have been unmindful. I
think we are missing a lot of fine bets in try—
ing to be of help to those of our neighbors
who are struggling for existence. \Ve are too
prone to think that if we cannot give them a
job there is nothing that we can do. Of course,
you-know that is not true and you are all
carrying on a work which belies that idea.
And yet you are undoubtedly struggling to do
your work in the face of a community attitude
which frequently blocks what you do. It might
be beneficial for all of us if we could demon-
strate here just a little of what we can do out-
side of this main objective of trying at this
time to aid the vast population of our people
through this desperate period.

Our Spiritual Impoverishment

It might be well to recall that we were not
only poor in matters of economics when the
depression came, but we were poor in other
things as well. \Ve were poverty stricken in
matters of habits for the constructive use of
our leisure time, and nowhere is that more
evident than it is at the present time in thc
lives of those who suddenly find themselves
without any means and with all their working
hours upon their hands.

479

480 THE CONTRIBUTION OF RECREATION TO RECOVERY

It is a truism to say that we have grown
into the habit of buying our play and our re-
creation. Probably nothing has borne that
home to us so much as the depression. I
should take some comfort, and I am sure you
would, if I thought there was a realization
on the part of the communities of America,
borne in upon them by the experience of the
hundreds of thousands of their own people, of
the impoverished condition of our lives with
regard to habits and attitudes in the use of
leisure hours. So much a part of us had that
attitude toward leisure become that we (lid not
use our time profitably even in the days when
there was hope abroad, and when there was a
feeling of zest and of ultimate triumph on the
part of all of our people in the improvement
of our skills. I well recall how proud we were
at the University of \Visconsin that we had
something like I3,ooo students throughout the
state engaged in some form of educational
activity or in increasing their vocational skills.

In other words, we were then a pe0ple who
seemed to slip easily into the wasting of what
later_was recognized as precious hours which
might have been used not only for personal
enjoyment but constructive improvement.
Now the experience of looking back upon
opportunities lost must be one of the bitterest
which so many of our fellow citizens are going
through.

Again, this realization of lost opportunities
brings home to us the fact that we as a nation
have been very slow in appreciating the im-
portance of having facilities for the proper
use of our leisure hours. It is ironical and a
sad commentary of our national life that we
could take such great pride in the fact that a
few schools were open as community centers
at night throughout the length and breadth of
our great land. And here was something in the
opening of our schools for the use of the
people that every community should have wel-
comed and united in bringing about, and now
we have hundreds of thousands of people with
no place to turn today.

I shall never forget going into the splendid
four story school center in Milwaukee which
Miss Dorothy linderis organized there and
feeling, "Well, here is something that seems
so natural it should exist everywhere else."
And yet one could go to community after

community and never find another center
like that. I hope that is not true today—it was
true a year and a half ago.

Another impoverished condition which the
present situation has revealed is the great
need on the part of communities as a whole
with regard to the general moral and skilled
life, if we can put these two things together.
Four out of five of us have been and are yet
complacent about the situation. \Ve are still
“putting up a front” and setting up obstacles
which make it very diflicult to get down to
real and intrinsic values.

These are some of the things very briefly
which have come out of our experience in this
emergency.

Trying to Find the Solution

To meet this situation in part, and only in
part, the Relief Administration has at least re-
cognized that it exists. I presume there is
some value and virtue in that I want, however,
to preface anything I may say about the Relief
Administration with a statement that we
don’t take very much pride in what has been
accomplished; no one who is close to the
situation can take much pride in it. For the
most part you get from it nothing but heart-
aches and a feeling of utter discouragement,
of bewilderment and bamement, in the face
of anything so huge, so enormous.

Today a gentleman from Atlanta came in
my oflice and looked over a map which shows
the counties designated drought areas. There
are 1,400 counties so designated. He said, “I
sometimes wonder how you people keep up at
all; how you can stand it."

\Vell, the only way you can stand it is
simply by being humble. The situation makes
you humble, and you are completely willing
by virtue of that to do the little you can, never
feeling you are riding the crest of any waves
or reaching your goal. So whatever anyone
may say about it you can put ,it down that
there are ten things which should be done and
perhaps nine of them were done. \Ve recognize
this and that may be something.

Mr. llopkins has said that 30 per cent of
our work programs should be given over to
projects which have to do with recreation,
with the building of recreation plants, with the

THE CONTRIBUTION OF RECREATION TO RECOVERY 481

A bandstand in
Shawnee Park.
Louisville, where
relief workers are
engaged in beau-
l'ifical'ion and con-
struction work.

provision of re-
creational ser-
vices of a char—
acter having to
do with the pro—
per use of leis—
ure time. I
think that this
whole program
is probably re-
c‘eiving m o r e
attention pro-
portionately
than any other
program we are
carrying on,
and the reason
for that is frankly, hrst of all, that it is one
of Mr. Hopkins’ “pets,” though I don’t like
that word. There is something constructive
here—something you can perhaps get some-
where with. Mr. Hopkins gives a lot of time

to it.

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

I am very sure as I look over this audience
that you have had a very important part in
these developments because reports come back
to us and we learn that here and there such
programs are being carried on as have been
described at this Congress. And we hear of
educational programs with a curriculum of
337 different subjects which the unemployed
may study and with 120,000 people enrolled
in these courses. Dr. Alderman, who is head of
these educational programs, is always pressing
us for more money, and after all money does
tell the story of how many teachers can be
engaged and of the number of pupils that can
be admitted.

One of the things that I like in the program
I think above everything else is that we are
building some playgrounds; we are creating
some parks; we are draining swamps_and

 

building in place of them playgrounds for the
future. I had a real thrill in New Orleans
when I saw them building a thousand acre
park right in the middle of the town which
had for years and years, I suppose from time
immemorial, been a swamp. The director told
me of the zest and joy the men were putting
into that job.

This is the kind of thing that is going on
all over America. I asked Mr. Goldschmidt to
give me the approximate number of such pro-
jects so that I could tell you. He worked for
a couple of hours and then he said, “That’s
impossible. I can’t tell you.” And I said,
“That’s fine. I will just tell them that the
number is in the thousands.”

\Ve have done a great deal along the line
of school gymnasiums and we are all tremend-
ously interested in that. The state director
of Mississippi tells us they are now able to
say that every rural school in Mississippi has.
a playground. That means tremendous things
to the children in these communities. So it
may be that along these lines the depression
has brought about some things that might not

482 THE CONTRIBUTION OF RECREATION TO RECOVERY

otherwise have occurred. I don’t like ever to
say that the depression is a good thing—it
couldn't possibly be—but some good things
are coming out of it.

Our Obligations

I want to say just a few words about the
obligations that it seems to me rest upon us
and upon the country in connection with the
unemployed.

Inasmuch. as we cannot find jobs for all
these people at the present time—and there
is no use fooling ourselves; the jobs aren’t
here—then as a nation we have some pretty
clear obligations along the lines of the skills
and the morale of the unemployed.

In the first place, I feel that any Relief
Administration and any community are oblig-
ated so to order their policies that they will
do nothing which will hurt the respect and
morale of the people they are trying to help.
That is not an easy thing; it is an awfully
hard thing. One of our \Vashington friends
toured the c0untry incognito. He said to us,
“You are doing a pretty good job but there is
one bad thing you are doing. A good many of
the people you are trying to help are going
away from you with the feeling that you have
done a good thing for them but with a sense
of misgiving. Some of them are even out and
out angry with you. They don’t like the way
things are handed to them, etc., etc."

Our task is that of helping a person in such
a way that he will not feel you are doing
something for him because you have power,
and he has not, and you are going to be kind.
You must somehow get him into feeling that
you understand what he is going through and
that but for the grace of God you would be
where he is. Somehow you must get across
the feeling that he is just like you, that he be-
longs anrl will continue to belong, and that
the situation is transitory.

To get over to the personnel an appreciation
of this relationship is about the
hardest thing in the world. One
of the difficulties is that a little
authority goes to people's
heads.

Mr. l‘l0pkins keeps saying
over and over again that he
doesn’t like relief. And I want
to say that I wish every one

"One of the things that I like

in the program—l thinlt above
eve thing else—is that we are
buil ing some playgrounds: we
are creating some parlts: we
are draining swamps and we are
building in place of them play-
grounds tor the future."

of our organizations had the same feeling of
not liking it, and wished that the position it
holds could be made unnecessary an hour from
the time the last relief is given.

And yet this is one of the rarest opportuni-
ties we have ever had to do something for the
morale of men and women.

I am told that over 50 per cent of all the
members of the American Association of Social
\Vorkers work for us and they are “leavening
the lump” out there with a technique which
we hope will make for an understanding rela-
tionship. For certainly if there is one obliga-
tion above everything else,'it is to see that we
do our job in such a way that the recipient
will feel everything is going to work out for
the best and he and his values will not be
impaired.

Another thing that we are obligated to do,
it seems to me, is somehow to maintain the
skills of the unemployed. \Ve must maintain
not only their morale and self-respect—the
things which are suffering above everything
else—~we must also keep their skills sharpened
and quickened so that if and when the change
for the better comes and they go back to their
benches, their desks and their counters, they
can take their places not only with their old
skills but with these skills enriched.

\Ve should take this as a great nation-wide
Opportunity to give many of our people the
training they need. \Ve in our hearts know
how badly trained we ourselves were; how
much we missed in preparing for the things
we later were called on to do. Multiply that by
millions and we have a tremendous situation.
\Ve hear so often that many of the unemployed
will never go back to work. We hear discour-
aging talk about a man forty-five years of age
heing through. I suppose there is nothing you
can do to stem that tide but I think it is a
tragedy. Some of us are nearing forty-five and
somehow life seems just to have started.

We in the Administration and you in the
communities have the respon-
sibility of so ordering the work
that we shall offer people op-
portunities to improve their
skills. If we miss‘that oppor-
tunity we are failing just that
much in duty.

There are other problems

which you and I have thought
- (Continued on rag: 505)

The Recreation Movement in Boston
and

Its Place in the National Emergency

Y SUBJECT this evening is
“The Recreation Move-

ment in Boston and Its
Place in the National Emer-
gency.” May I preface my're-
marks by a brief review of the growth of our

extensive recreational activities in Boston?

In October 1931, Governor Ely appointed
me chairman of the Massachusetts Emergency
Committee on Unemployment, and in the
natural course of events, I came into personal
touch with the objectives of the National Re—
creation Association. The other day, in look-
ing over the report of the activities of our
Committee, I was much struck by the efforts
which we then made to encourage throughout the
state the extension of recreational facilities not
only fqr the benefit of unemployed “white col-
lar persons,” but also for the average wage
earner and his family, who, because of re-
duced hours of employment, had a surplus of
free time on their hands. It was largely owing
to Mr. A. R. \Vellington of this Association.
whose services were generously loaned to us,
that our Committee came to realize the im-
portance of planned recreation and I am glad
of this opportunity to again express my grat—
itude to Mr. Wellington.

But the functions of the Massachusetts
State Committee were limited; funds were
lacking and we could not attempt to accom—
plish much more than a consolidation of efforts
of the cities and towns to provide financial
relief and employment. The only striking con-
tribution to the cause of recreation which was
made that year was the establishment in
Boston of a series of c00perative university
courses offered free during afternoons for any-
0ne who had the time to attend. A member of
our Committee, Mr. George P. Hamlin, Jr., of
Boston, conceived the idea, and with his

By WILLIAM PHILLIPS

Under Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.

dynamic‘ 'personality and the
active assistance of virtually all
institutions of college rank in
Greater Boston, the popularity
of these courses became im-
mediately apparent. '

The following autumn, that of 1932, saw a
discontinuance of the State Emergency Com-
mittee and the absence of any city or state
machinery to stimulate recreational activities
for the unemployed or part time employed.
Conditions in the city of Boston were far more
serious than in any other part of the state and
promised to be acute before the winter was at
an end. I remembered the lessons learned dur—
ing the previous year and wondered whether
something might not be done in Boston to in-
crease public recreation and so ameliorate con-
ditions throughout the city. The Governor had,
during the previous year placed at the disposal
of the Emergency Committee on Unemploy-
ment the State armories, which were to be
thrown open as shelter during the day and for
sleeping quarters during the night to those in
dire need. It occurred to me, therefore, that the-
armories in and near Boston might now be
utilized for recreational purposes.

Finding Facilities

However, before developing this idea I called
at the offices of the Community Service of Bos-
ton and made the acquaintance of its highly
efficient secretary, Mr. \V. Duncan Russell,
who for years had been advocating additional
public recreation programs for the city. We
discussed the possible use of the armories and
ways and means of attracting to them persons
who had time on their hands and no place to
go. It was from Mr. Russell that I learned the
city of Boston had a large investment in muni-
cipal buildings erected a good many years ago
at a cost of about $15,000,000. It appeared that

483

484 THE RECREATION .«lIOl'EglIENT IN BOSTON

there were eleven of these buildings in eleven
different sections of the city, each of which
was provided with a splendidly equipped gym-
nasium, two with large swimming pools and
most of them with other rooms, large and
small, which would be ideal for recreational
activities of various types, and far superior to
armories. It also appeared that full use of these
buildings was not being made, partly because
of lack of funds, but perhaps more especially
because of a failure by the city authorities to
appreciate the importance of offering to the
public recreational activities on a much broader
scale than heretofore, especially during the
winter months. W'hile the buildings were open
from noon until 9 P. M.,'only a small part of
their floor space was actually in use during
those hours.

The next step was to consult Mr. Joseph
l.ee, President of the National Recreation
Association, and to form a small committee of
prominent citizens who were interested in see-
ing that the city’s municipal buildings served
a wider purpose. Any change contemplated in
the plans of city governments necessitates long
and arduous conferences, and so in this case
much time was lost before the authorities
found ways and means to respond to the Com-
mittee's request. But respond they did finally,
and in a spirit of cordial cooperation. The
Emergency Committee on Health and Recrea-
tion fOr the City of Boston was at last form-
ally launched by the mayor.

Boston, from the beginning of the recreation
movement, has been as conscious of its re-
sponsibility to provide playground space for
its inhabitants as any city in the country. It
has been slow in matters of organized pro-
grams and very neglectful of adult recreation
needs; but past city administrations must cer-
tainly have been thinking further than of play
space for children when they erected the city’s
eleven municipal buildings and made provi-
sion for its extensive, well-
equipped outdoor recreation
system.

It semed strange to me
that the idea of organized
recreation program in the
municipal buildings had been

the city authOrities, but
doubtless it never occurred

"For every dollar expended by our
national, state and local authorities
layers of labor to
c more and better
recreation facilities, we, as a nation,
will malte an investment which will

. . , pay tremendous dividends in the
so {Gratin to the m'“"" m eelth, morale and happiness of our

citizenship. The right use of leisure
is the nation's problem."

and by the em
give to the pub

to them that the facilities as they existed
would not be used on people's individual initi-
ative. \Vhen the buildings were not so used,
the authorities felt that the city had done its
part in providing places for recreation and if
the people did not want to use them there was
nothing further to be done.

Something in the nature of our present ab-
normal economic situation, with its far-reach-
ing unemployment, was apparently needed to
quicken the imagination of the authorities and
awaken them to the realization that actual
recreation programs were desirable and neces-
sary. The appointment, therefore, of the
Emergency Health and Recreation Committee
in the Fall of 1932 was clearly a recognition
that city government could not rest satisfied
with providing food, shelter and clothing for
the needy, but that provision for mental relief
was almost as important.

It was resolved to house the new committee
in a neutral office independent of any city
department. Community Service of Boston
with its office and staff having long experience
in such matters and a real appreciation of the
job to be done, seemed to fulfill the require-
ments. Mr. Duncan Russell, its secretary. be-
came, therefore, the central pivot around
which the Committee's activities began to

develop.
I

Committees Organized

The problem was obviously to extend im-
mediately opportunities for organized pro-
grams beyond the narrow limits to which they
had been confined, and to make these pro-
grams so stimulating and wOrth while that the
public would be attracted to them. The types
of recreation chosen included games and read-
ing rooms, amateur music and dramatics. arts
and crafts, popular educational courses and
various forms of physical activities in the
gymnasiums. The best advice as to how these
activities should be stimulated
was obtained from advi50ry
committees of experts specially
appointed for this purpose. and
public spirited men and women
quickly accepted membership
on these committees. In less
than two weeks prOgrams in
all of these activities were ready
to be put into operation.

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN BOSTON 485

It was well understood that it would be
futile to set up our programs in the various
sections of the city without first inviting the
cooperation of the people of the neighborhood.
i“ Therefore, it was decided to form 'special
neighborhood committees throughout the city
which would have final responsibility for the
programs adopted. These committees have
m’ore recently been improved and have be-
come the key to the success of the entire
city program. Not all of these committees,
and there are fourteen in operation now, have
precisely the same set-up, but they have a
common purpose———that of improving condi-
tions in their respective communities. Neces-
sarily each neighborhood committee functions
through an executive committee and subcom-
mittees selected for each department of the
program. It is important to stress the work
of these subcommittees. They are not neces-
sarily composed of members of the original
neighborhood committee, but are chosen from
the residents of the community by virtue of
their known connection with the activity on
which they are prepared to work. Thus a sub-
committee on music in Neighborhood A would
be made up generally of musicians resident
within Neighborhood A; likewise a subcom-
mittee on educational courses would be com-
posed of resident college or school teachers,
and a subcommittee on library extension
would be composed of resident librarians. As
these various neighborhood committees began
to function, each met on the average once
every two weeks, leaving to the subcommittees
the details of the work in hand.

Naturally the ways and means to provide
financially for adequate staffs and supervision
of the various activities of our city—wide move-
ment was a problem from the start. For the
first two seasons the Emergency Campaign of
Boston contributed in sufficient amount to
staff completely the muncipal gymnasiums
with recreation leaders and to provide for
organizers for nearly all of the fourteen local
neighborhood committees. City public welfare
recipients took charge of the game and read,-
ing rooms in the municipal buildings and the
universities and colleges in and around Boston
supplied lecturers for the popular educational
courses. It is of interest that during the first
three months of operation the game and read—
ing room attendance in the municipal buildings

reached a peak of 134,000. During the second
winter, that of 1932, the programs of the pre-
vious year were followed in much the same
manner. Experience had demonstrated the
desirability of even better neighborhood or—
ganization, and so much was accomplished in
this direction that when the Federal Emer-
gency Relief Administration made its ap-
pearance in the Spring of 1934, the stage was
already set for effective work on a much
larger scale. Our Committee on Health and
Recreation at once made application of the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration for
personnel to take care of its summer needs
and in this way programs in choral, orchestra,
dramatics and in young men’s and young
women’s activities became possible.

Some of the Accomplishments

The following figures give some idea of
last summer’s accomplishments:

50 playgrounds operated for men and boys’
activities, 875.350 was the total attendance dur-
ing a ten week period.

25 playgrounds operated for older girls' activi-
ties, 6I,830 was the total attendance during
a ten 'week period.

11 amateur community orchestras rehearsed
and gave concerts during the summer, 4,400
was the total participation at rehearsals and
concerts.

8 amateur choruses rehearsed and gave con
certs during the summer, 8,800 was the total
attendance on the part of the singers.

8 amateur dramatic groups rehearsed, 4,112
was the total attendance on the part of the

actors and actresses.
192 concerts and free entertainments were
given (75 radio broadcasts by orchestra and

chorus), "6,800 (approximately) was the total
attendance at these concerts and entertain-

ments.
The Emergency Relief Administration has

given a great impetus to public recreation
throughout the nation, but it remains for com-

munities themselves to take the initiative in
planning wise projects. Fortunately, Boston
was prepared to take advantage of E. R. A.’s
cooperation‘ because of the work which had
already been begun in the Fall of 1931. Our
City-\Nide Committee on Health and Recrea-
tion continues to function energetically and
has become a powerful agency for Boston’s

481) THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN BOSTON

future welfare. At present all of the recreation
activities have been sufficiently planned and
developed to assure their continuance during
the coming winter. The choruses, orchestras
and groups in dramatics have reached such an
excellence that they command wide attention
whenever they appear in public. Boston, it
seems, is well equipped to go forward rapidly
in developing a permanent city-wide program
of such a character that the boy or the girl,
the man or the woman, who has only suffi-
cient wage to pay for life’s necessities can find
some opportunity to enjoy spare time in a
sound, sane and constructive manner.

So much for Boston, but before concluding
my remarks, may I mention public recreation in

Massachusetts?

Throughout the State

I have shown that Boston is doing well, but
I am glad to say also that the state is doing
well. You are aware that Mr. Hopkins, of the
Federal Administration, suggested to the
various state emergency administrators that
approximately 30 percent of the total allotment
of his funds to each state should be utilized
to provide qualified workers for public play-
grounds, community centers, athletics, orches-
tras and many other types ofavocational work.
In the past five months, besides Boston, ap-
proximately 200 Massachusetts communities
have taken advantage of these suggestions and
have initiated various sorts of recreational
programs with supervisors employed and paid
from the Emergency Relief Funds. Time for-
bids my mentioning individual communities
other than Springfield, Somerville, Salem,
Norwood and \Vatertown, which are all mov-
ing forward exceptionally well in planning
recreational projects. I cannot help expressing
my pride, as a Massachusetts man, in the far-
sighted way which the state, as a whole, is
preparing to tackle the problem of public re-
creation. Many employers of labor have be-
come deeply interested in the problem, re-
cognizing the importance to them that em-
ployees should use their spare time advan-
tageously and should not turn to destructive
forms of "recreation" which may be fostered
by undesirable persons or agencies.

It is my humble opinion that for every dol-
lar expended by our national, state and local
authorities, and by employers of labor. to

give to the public more and better recreation
facilities. we, as a nation, will make an invest-
ment which will pay tremendous dividends in
the health, morale and happiness of our citi-
zenship. The right use of leisure is the nation's
problem. More and more we are coming to
realize that well conducted community recrea-
tion centers are-necessities and not luxuries.
I believe that every community should give
thought to these matters and, if they have not
already done so, should consider the setting-up
of local committees on recreation. As soon as
the problem is presented they will realize, I feel
sure, that emphasis must be placed on obtain-
ing free services, free material, free use of
facilities—in short, upon cooperative helpful-
ness from many sources in the community.

Imagination, ingenuity and courage are called
for. And it is gratifying to find the extent to
which the exercise of these qualities will yield
results. A survey of any community, no matter
where situated, will show that it has a contrib-
ution to make to the total enrichment of life.
Cities are places in which to live, as well as to
work. The,school and the university, the park,
the playground, the library, the museum, the
art gallery, the settlement house, the church
and the home all add their share to the live-
ableness of the community. \Vomen’s clubs,
parent-teacher associations, civic groups, the
chamber of commerce, the Y. M. C. A. and the
Y. \V. C. A. and the Scout organizations all
have programs that are doing much to provide for
avocation interest and for the education of leisure
time. It is through the cooperation of all these
institutions, brought together and stimulated
into further activities by a central committee,
that a commnity may realize the broadest
happiness and achievement.

There shOuld be no need to tell people what
they shall or shall not do with their leisure,
but is it not plausible to suppose that what
people actually decide to do with their free
time will depend largely upon what the com-
munities provide in the way of facilities and
opportunities?

I believe firmly that our boys and girls, our men
and women, are inherently fine and wholesome,
that given half a chance they will utilize their
vastly increased leisure in such manner as not
only to add to their own joy of living, but to pro-
lllOtC the best welfare of their neighbors, their
communities, their state and the nation.

Citizens' Councils tor Constructive Economy

that the activities of a com-

IT HAS BEEN too little realized
munity are as interrelated as threads in a

fabric; that when we cut the costs of recreation ‘

or libraries in a well-balanced municipal program
the cost of crime goes up, that when we abandon
the collection of garbage the cost of public health
or the private doctor bills go up, that when we
close schools we stop civilization as we know it.

The average citizen has not, until recently,
bothered to examine the fabric of government.
As long as the cover enveloped him comfortably
so that drafts did not get in, he did not worry
about whether a smaller surface perhaps might
not have been just as satisfactory, whether the
design was not more elaborate than necessary,
whether a less costly material might not serve the
purpose, or whether the labor involved in mak-
ing the cloth was the minimum for producing a
good article.

Along came the depression! Mr. Citizen not
only began to take cursory glances at the texture
of his local government but borrowed a micro-
scope to examine its warp and woof.

It was an attitude forced upon him. The aver-
age American city last year and this has been able
to collect less than three-fourths of its anticipated
incomes. In many instances cities have been able
to collect only half their levies. In ill-considered
moments of panic state legislatures have fastened
'upon cities straightjackets in the form of tax
limitation measures that have caused some munici-
palities practically to go out of business. Payment
.of principal and interest on debts in some in-
stances uses such a large proportion of what the
local government is permitted to ask of citizens
that nothing is left for operating expenses.

The necessity for cutting
municipal budgets by no
means has been accompanied
by a decrease in demand for
the services which citizens
have come to expect of their
local governments. The po-
liceman is still expected to
keep order, the fireman must
.be ready to extinguish the

more detailed

By HOWARD P. JONES

Mr. Jones is Secretary of the National
Municipal League and Editor of the
National Municipal Review. His organi-
zation, whose headquarters are at 309
East 34th Street' New York City, will be
glad to supply plans for the organiza-
tion of citizensI councils and to give
intormaton about the
type of work that may be done by such
groups working locally.

spark on the roof, citizens are
not ready to break their car
springs in holes in the pavement, they do not plan
to burn their own garbage. Schools must not be
closed. “Should my child be cheated of an edu-
cation and handicapped for life merely because
he happened to be born in a valley rather than on
a peak of the business curve?” demands the tax-
payer, and he is' justified in assuming the right-
ness of a negative answer.

We continue to expect local government to
guard us from the ravages of epidemics. Shall we
save money by closing our libraries, playgrounds
and parks?

Constructive Economy the Answer

A worse suggestion could hardly be made, for
these are typical of those services of government
which should be expanded rather than contracted
dUring a depression period. A man with a job
can buy his own books to read; if necessary, can
find his own recreation. A man without a job can
do neither. While in prosperous times recreation
programs were planned largely for children and
and young people, those who had most time to
take advantage of them, this class has been sud-
denly swelled by thousands upon thousands of
adults who are forced unwillingly to accept a
leisure in the use of which they are untrained.
To keep minds and bodies of the unemployed in
good condition throughout years of hardship, and
better prepare them so that they will be ready to
take advantage of the new opportunities of better
times, is one of the Herculean tasks of those gov-
ernmental departments which provide what we
designate as “social” and “cultural” services.

To reiterate the problem confronting local gov-
er'nmental officials and citi-
zens we must have economy
and we must have govern-
mental services. The answer
is constructive economy. We
must eliminate waste, inef—
ficiency and graft. We must
reorganize the structure and
improve the administrative
methods of government so

487

488 CITIZENS" COUNCILS FOR CO.\"STRUCTH '15 ECONOMY

that there will be left, in the necessarily curtailed
budget, funds for essential services. We must not
whirl the economy axe indiscriminately but we
must examine the whole structure of government
carefully, subject each service to evaluation, and
preserve that which is most essential to the gen-
eral welfare.

It is a difhcult process, one that can not be left
solely to public oflicials but one that needs the co-
operation of the best brains of the community. It
was this realization that brought about the birth
of the citizens’ council idea which has spread until
at present there are such councils in thirty-three
states and councils being organized in communi-
ties in all of the remaining states.

How the Citizens’ Council Functions

A citizens’ council is made up of representatives
of all of the outstanding civic groups in a com-
munity, along with other leaders, who pool their
civic energy and intelligence around a table to
focus on governmental problems. This small
group, through its plan of organization, is repre-
sentative of all interests in the community, pro-
vides a channel through which information may
reach citizens quickly and through which public
Opinion may be mobilized, and coordinates the ef-
forts of all who are interested in bringing about
less costly and more efficient government.

We Americans are great “joiners.” Per square
mile the average American community has more
organizations than are to be
found in any other country in
the world. Most American com-
munities are over-organized.
Too many of these organiza-
tions work along in their own
pigeon-holes with little consid-
eration or thought for their
neighbor organizations w h i c h
are doing likewise. The citi-
zens' council provides a way for
all of these groups to woi-k to-
gether at the same time for the

same thing.

"Shall we save money by clos-
ing our libraries, playgrounds
and parks?” "A worse sug-
gestion could hardly be
made" is Mr. Jones' reply.

Merely the opportunity for representatives of
various groups to meet and talk together, to dis-
cuss problems in the light of the welfare of the
entire community rather than from the stand-
point of a special group, possesses a value that is
incalculable.

Not long ago a taxpayers’ organization in a
middle west city proposed that the schools’ budget
be cut 50% as an expedient to give badly needed
relief to the taxpayer. The Parent-Teacher As-
sociation campaigned against it but the measure
passed, leaving organizations and citizens alligned
against one another with a feeling of great bit-
terness. After their victory many members of the
taxpayers’ association expreSsed regret that the
curtailment in education had been so severe.

Not long after, a meeting was called of repre-
sentatives of organizations to plan the formation
of a citizens’ council. Quite by chance the presi-
dent of the taxpayers’ association and the presi-
dent of the Parent-Teachers' council sat side by
side, meeting for the first time. They talked
about the school cut. At the end of the conver-
sation the president of the taxpayers’ group said
"If we had only got together at a table, we could
lnve worked this thing out.” His group, he said,
thinking that a compromise would be inevitable,
had asked for an extreme which they had not
wanted. If they had had a chance to work out
with other groups a measure acceptable to all. the
battle with its unfortunate results to the youth of

 

CITIZENS’ COUNCILS FOR CONSTRUCTIVE ECONOMY 489

the city would have been averted. A citizens’
council in this city will prevent the repetition of
such action based on lack of understanding.

\Vhat are citizens’ councils doing? A few exam-
ples indicate the type of problem that may be
tackled by this new vehicle for citizen action.

In Alabama, where citizen's’ councils were
formed in forty-two counties and where there is
a state citizens’ council coordinating their work,
the emphasis has been on adequate support of
education. By united action in a state-wide cam—
paign last year, the county councils assured the
passage of four warrant and income tax amend-
ments to the state constitution which would liqui-
date the state’s floating indebtedness and make
money available to the schools. The broad pro-
gram of the state council is constructive reorgani—
zation of state and local governments in order
that essential public services may be preserved.
This program embraces abolition of the fee sys-
tem of payment, setting up the county executive
plan and modernization of the taxation system.

The state citizens’ council in New Jersey has
prepared six bills to be introduced at this winter’s
legislature. Among other measures these provide
for revision and modernization of the accounting,
budgeting and purchasing procedure of local gov-
ernments in the state, revision of the procedure
for managing the debt service of local govern—
ments to make the debt burden less, and central-
ized financial administration in the state to seCUre
for the state government and its agencies the large
economies and greater efficiency that can be
achieved by this means. The council is preparing
recommendations relative to new plans for financ-
ing education and studying possible new sources
of taxation.

In New York State local citizens’ councils
found a common problem in the need for reor-
ganization of local government. Before econo-
mies may be effected eliminating overlapping
units of government and pruning local govern-
ment of useless departments and officials, the state
constitution must be amended. The councils have
banded together to work toward this end.

In studying governmental services New York
citizens’ councils, as councils elsewhere, found a
lamentable dearth of data on costs. The collec-
tion and dissemination of such data is therefore
one of the other immediate state-wide plans of
the councils in New York State. The citizens’
council in New York City is concentrating its at-
tention at present on charter revision. The coun-

cils in Boston, St. Louis and Detroit are typical of
those which are closely cooperating with city“ of-
ficials in preparation of the city budgets. Every
item is scrutinized and weighed and the recom-
mendations of the citizens’ council are an im-
portant factor in these budgets as finally passed.

The activities of a local council are varied. C0n-
sider, for example, those of the council in Dur-
ham, North Carolina, during the last year. This
citizens’ council was largely responsible for the
recent separation of the juvenile from the superior
court; its work resulted in ridding the city of slot
machines; it held a public meeting at which can-
didates for Legislature and Judge of the Re-
corder’s Court presented their platforms and an-
swered citizens’ questions. A committee of the
council made a study of trafiic accidents and traf-
fic congestion and submitted suggestions for their
correction, some of which have been carried out
by the city officials. The council is studying the
organization of the city government with a view
to finding ways in which to economize while pre-
serving essential services. A committee on taxa-
tion is studying the comparative merits and de-
fects of various types of taxes and the problem
of delinquent taxes. The council is cooperating
with other groups in the state in working for an
adequate educational program for the state.

The stated purpose of the Durham Council is
(I) to coordinate the interest and activities of the
civic organizations of Durham; (2) to gather in-
formation and to formulate policies with reference
to civic problems; (3) to create public opinion in
support of such policies, and ( 4) to consult with
and to assist public officials in securing their en-
actment and administration.

In another southern community, Athens,
Georgia, the first task undertaken by the citizens’
council was to arouse interest in a community
center and a recreational program. The beautiful
recreation building completed recently in Alta-
dena, California, is very largely due to the activity
of Altadena’s community council. Another im-
portant activity of the latter council is the de-
velopment of a plan for flood control.

The welfare of the city’s children is the chief
interest of the citizens’ council in Valley City,
North Dakota, where prevention of child delin-
quency, safe-guarding children against fire and ac—
cident, providing for their recreational needs and
training them in citizenship are typical of the
items considered at sessions of the council.

(Continued on. page .506)

Hobbies As An Open Sesame

An experience ot the Camp Fire
Girls which has suggestions tor
groups of all kinds everywhere

what we do depends upon

engaging the interest of
other peOple. And when I say
“we,” I mean organizations
such as the National Recreation Association,
Camp Fire Girls, Boy Scouts, and all of us whose
work is with and for the community, and who
must rely on community cooperation whether in
the form of sponsorship, money contributions,
taxes, or volunteer leadership. we probably have
all said dozens of times that the way to get peOple
interested in our work is to approach them through
their own interests. We may have been thinking
in terms of their business, professional, or home
interests, but after our experience with the Camp
Fire Girls hobby shows during the past year, we
shall never make the mistake of overlooking their
hobbies!

The most gratifying and heart-warming feature
of our Hobby Project, which was our special
national project for 1934, was the enthusiastic
community interest which it aroused. Each year
we choose some phase of our program for special
emphasis in what we call our Birthday Project,
since its high point comes at the time of the birth-
day of the national organization—the 17th of
March. The choice is influenced, to a great ex-
tent, by special interest in certain activities which
we see cropping up among the girls here and
there. This time there was no mistaking the in-
terest in hobbies: it would seem that the good old
hobby horse had abandoned his rockers and bor-
rowed the wings of Pegasus. He was certainly
flying across the country at a great ratel

\Ve had thought that the girls would carry out
their individual hobbies in a quiet sort of way,
for the most part unheralded and unsung (except
where a local executive had a partieular flare for
publicity). What we had not anticipated was the
way in which their hobbies would involve person

4‘)! )

So MUCH of the success of

By C. FRANCES Looms
Editor of the

Department of Publications

to

Community Interest

after person in the connnunity
until practically the whole town
was included. The key to the
situation, of course, is the fact
that when it comes to hobbies
we are all great proselytizers. \Ve not only enjoy
our hobbies ourselves, but we love to talk about
them and show them off (too many times. alas, to
those who but patiently bear with us). No won-
der, then, that when someone shows an awaken-
ing interest in our own particular field, we wel-
come him with delight and eagerly share with
him the benefit of our experience. Personally, I
can hardly be restrained, on the slighte5t provoca-
tion, from holding forth on the subject of aphides
and insecticides, and if anyone wants to know
what will grow in city window boxes against all
obstacles, it would be doing me a real favor to
let me tell him!

Certainly peOple everywhere were most gener-
ous with their time and help, and most hospitable
in inviting the girls to see their collections, gar-
dens, work shops, bee hives, kennels, observa-
tories, studios, cabins, boats, printing presses. You
have no idea where hobbies may lead until you
begin to hear from a couple of hundred thousand
girls who have mounted hobby horses and are
riding of? in all directions!

Entertaining with Hobbies

One of the activities we suggested in connection
with the hobby project was that each girl should
plan a meeting for her group at which she would
entertain them with her hobby. Some of these
meetings were most interesting and original. and
many of them showed again the helpful c00pera-
tion of older hobbyists. For instance, there is the
girl whose hobby is art. She invited the girls to
her home and put on an artist's smock and a berel
to rCCeive them. She had arranged a one-man
show of her work for them to see, her choicest

HOBBIES AS AN OPEN SESAME TO COMMUNITY INTEREST 491

bits being hung in the big hall in quite the gallery
manner. She had also invited several older guests
to assume the responsibility for the program. An
art teacher from one of the schools talked on pas-
tels and showed how paste] is used. A prominent
citizen who collects tapestries exhibited these in
the living room and told the girls about weaving.
The high spot of the afternoon was a demonstra-
tion of silhouette-cutting by a member of the local
newspaper staff, who cut silhouettes of all the
girls. Tea was then served to her friends by this
young hobby hostess.

Virginia, whose hobby is Indian lore, invited
her grOUp to armeeting in the basement of her
house, where she had an exhibit of Indian relics
and Indian crafts on display. She taught the girls
an Indian dance, using a kettle and dish pan for
her tom toms. (It was probably a good thing for
the family that the meeting was in the basement!)

Members of another group were invited to at-
tend a “chocolate”' by an eleven-year-old, whose
hobby is—cooking. First she told the girls, in a
delightful manner, about the fun she found in
cooking and about some of her experiments, both
failures and successes. Then she demonstrated
some of her successes with refreshments of salad,
sandwiches, chocolate, cookies, and fudge bars.
That meeting was hugely enjoyed.

Martha Ann calls her hobby “What Not’s.”
Her meeting was also in the basement of her
home, where there was room enough for the girls
to give the play Virginia had written, in which
her characters were the “what not” objects.

Betty's hobby is Nature lore, so she invited the

girls to an outdoor breakfast. The decorations
were flowers from her garden which the girls had
to identify before they could have their food. For
place cards, Betty had painted paper daisies, and
under each petal had written
3. Nature Honor the girls
could earn during the sum-
mer. After breakfast, they
had a Nature spelldown,
3etty asking them questions
about birds and flowers and
trees, which they might all
have answered from their
own observations if they had
been observing enough. I
wonder how many of us
would have acquitted our-
selves with credit at Betty’s
spelldown!

"Historically, the importance of hobbies
and of hobby-riding is a matter which
has received the attention of some of
the ables’r writers and thinkers. In |865
Charles Dickens' in the magazine All the
Year ’Round, wro’re as follows: lls there
one among you who does not keep a
hobby horse' to whom the pleasure of
parading a favorite toy. material or in-
tellectual. is unknown? If there is' I
should like to see the man' as a curiosity
no’r equaled even by a living specimen
of the Dodol or a yearling lchl'hyosaurus
making its first clumsy essays toward
amphibian perfection.' "

Davis in Hobbies, January, I934.

These are just a few examples of the girls’
hobby meetings, but they give a glimpse of the
variety of the girls’ hobbies and the ingenuity
they showed in sharing them with their friends.

Then Came Hobby Shows

Of course, with the girls all excited about hob-
bies, and their fathers and mothers and adult
friends all busily helping them, hobby shows just
naturally developed. These ranged all the way
from very modest exhibits in libraries, schools,
and store windows, to ambitious shows in huge
auditoriums or in department stores, to which the
whole town contributed. One of the most elabo-
rate of these was held. in Portland, Oregon. In
sponsoring this, the Meier and Frank Department
Store cooperated with the Camp Fire Girls. and
everyone was invited to exhibit. The show was
held in the store’s auditorium and the exhibits re-
quired 10,804 square feet of floor space to display.

As with the Syracuse Hobby Show, described
in the October issue of RECREATION, it was found
that the demonstrations attracted the most atten-
tion. The center section was set up as a workshop.
Here were shown linished articles, some in pro-
cess, and the tools and materials for making them.
At scheduled hours during the day, demonstra-
tions in craftsmanship were given, not only by
Camp Fire Girls but also by adult experts. Spin-
ning, weaving, bookbinding, pottery, basketry,
block printing, wood carving, leather tooling,
jewelry making, and metal work were shown.

Among the booths were additional demonstra-
tions. One Camp Fire Girl who was building her
own radio set arranged a booth to look like her
home workshop, and worked on her radio there.
Call letters decorated the walls. In connection
with the booth in which an astronomy exhibit was‘
shown, a Camp Fire Girl ex-
plained the celosphere. An—
other girl worked daily on
puppets and showed not only
how they were made but also
how they were operated on
the stage. In the photography
booth a dark room was set
up where Camp Fire Girls
developed pictures. Not the
least interesting was the
cooking demonstration in the
model kitchen where Camp
Fire Girls were making Up
their favorite recipes. By

George E.

41).? HOBBIES AS AN OPEN SESAME TO COJMIUNITY INTEREST

 

contrast, there was a fencing demonstration by
other Camp Fire Girls. Members of the Oregon
Society of Artists made quick sketches daily in
their booth. while a Camp Fire Girl gave them
keen competition.

The participation and cooperation of all sorts
of groups throughout the city are shown in this
paragraph from the executive’s report of the
exhibit:

“5n effort was made to secure representation by the
leading hobby groups in the city. For instance.. the
Oregon Stamp Society placed a line stamp exhibit to
augment the girls'. work. Members of the Garden
Club who were also interested in Camp Fire placed
some rare plants in the garden booth. The Oregon
Agate and Mineral Society brought choice exhibits of
agaies and minerals and fossils which could be found
in the Oregon region: Members of the Arts and
Crafts Somety assisted in arranging some of the craft
exhibits. A leading scientist brought an exhibit of all
'the birds and mammals that can be found in Oregon.
The school department of manual training entered
samples of wood-turning and carpentry. A group of
men. who had built their own model railway, made a
fascinating exhibit of rails, switches. and cars. The
Oregon Historical Society gave us a most interesting
display of an old Oregon kitchen. which we recon-
structed to represent the hobby interest of antiques.
The Junior. League. which has a puppet show for
n10ney:tnak1ng, loaned us their puppets to add to our
collection. The. president of the leading bank loaned
his tine collection of ship models of the early river
steamers. The outstanding Indian relic collector gave
us a most interesting exhibit of things found in the
Oregon region. One lady loaned us a fascinating

mlleetionoof thiinbles. gathered from all over the
is ~urld, gmng back to the early Roman liinpire."

terause of the SIKJIISOFShiP of the store pub-
licity was given the show. not only through the
usual ( amp Fire channels but in the store’s daily
advertisements as well. and by means of posters
throughout the store and tiiinmiiiceineiits made on

Gardening is the hobby of some
Camp Fire Girls, and theirs are
not all flower gardens. either!

all the elevators while the show
was in progress. Thus, not only
were hundreds induced to exhibit,
but thousands came to see their
hobbies.

In the small towns, girls had
their hobby shows as well as in
the large ones. An entertaining
account was sent us of a hobby
show in Nowata, Oklahoma,
population 3.531. Evidently a
single group of Camp Fire Girls
set out with a determination to
make this town hobby-conscious.
The citizens were a little apathetic and puzzled at
first. but soon got the idea. They realized that
they did have hobbies, though they hadn't thought
much about the other fellow’s, and eventually
enough hobbies were unearthed to make a very
interesting show. First the girls went to their
sponsors. the Delphian Club, and got the club to
appoint a committee to sponsor the show. Then
they concentrated on the editor of the local news-
paper and he responded in fine style with edi-
torials on the value of hobbies and a series of
news stories. as plans for the show progressed.
Next they organized a speaking campaign and
arranged for talks on hobbies at all of the clubs
in town. There began to be a stir of interest.
School was out, so the principal of the High
School said they could have as much room in that
building as they needed. Some of the stores in
town lent them showcases, and one of the firms
did the hauling.

They hardly knew what to expect. so were all
the more delighted at the number and interesting
'ariety of exhibits that were sent to be shown.
A committee of prominent citizens acted as judges
and ribbons were given for the most extensive
collection, the most unique exhibit, the neatest.
the oldest, the most modern, the most artistic,
and the most amusing. Exhibits ranged all the
way from a coach parasol, :30 years old. to week-
old cocker spaniels: from hne old quilts and
hooked rugs to homemade radios. Boys and girls,
men and women, old and young. were among the

(Continued on page 506)

Pasadena’s Municipal Exhibit

A graphic method ot intorming citizens
regarding local governmental services

By CECIL F. MARTIN

HE CITY OF PASADENA, California, has in-
Taugurated an interesting method of inform-

ing citizens and taxpayers of the services ren-
dered through the various departments of its gov-
ernment, in annual exhibits in the civic audi—
torium, two of which have been held.

The purposes of the exhibit are several in num-
ber, the primary one being to acquaint the citizens
with the inner workings of the city government
and help them secure definite knowledge of what
the tax dollar accomplishes. In the display Mr.
Citizen is taken behind the counter where the
ordinary transactions of business are operated and
given the opportunity to follow through the vari-
ous departments where he was shown scenes of
municipal life. This gives to the citizen a graphic
illustration of the functions of government, where
he formerly has had only a limited idea of the
workings and services of the twenty-six depart—
ments of the city government. A personal inspec-
tion of every department of the government is
normally impossible, but through this exhibit op-
portunity is afforded, in a compact display fea—
tured with demonstrations, interesting and infor-
mational in character, to see what the city does
for its people.

The Exhibits

All exhibits, as handled in the most recent ex—
hibit, were set up by the employees at no cost to
the city, and no taxpayer had cause for complaint
about extra expense. These em—
ployees were in a t t e n d a n c e
throughout the duration of the
exhibit to explain the functions
of their own departments and
to serve the visitor in every way
possible. The departments ex—
hibiting included Assessor, Au-

ditorium, Building, City Clerk, venture.

Mr. Martin, who is Director of the
Pasadena Department of Recrea-
tion and ot the Department of Phy-
sical Education. tells of a municipal
exhibit designed to show taxpayers
how their money is spent, and the
services with which it
them. It proved a most successful

City Farm, City Manager and Directors, Control-
ler, Employment, Engineering, Streets, Refuse
Disposal, Fire, Health and Emergency Hospital,
Legal, Library, Light and Power, Park, Planning
Commission, Police, Printing, Public Buildings,
Purchasing, Recreation, Treasurer, Water, City
Chemist, and welfare. The exhibit was an in-
tegrated presentation of the functions of govern-
ment participated in by city official, city employee
and citizen. The growing attendance each suc-
ceeding night gave evidence of the publicity spread
abroad by the impressed visitors to their fellow
citizens.

On educational and press night, Dr. \Villiam B.
Monroe,of the California Institute of Technology,
presided, and the honored guests included the
Lieutenant Governor of California, members of
the Board of Supervisors of Los Angeles County,
educational leaders of Southern California, and
representatives of the newspapers in the vicinity.
Tuesday night was Mayor’s night, and Edward
O. Nay, Chairman of the Board of City Direct-
ors of Pasadena, presided. On that evening the
officials of Pasadena took pleasure in honoring the
guests including the mayors and representatives
of the municipalities of Southern California. They
presented the Pasadena municipal program and
expressed their pleasure in cooperating with the
government officials of neighboring citics whose
problems were mutual, giving them a vital inter-
est and a concern for the building of a happy,
healthy and busy populace. On
\Vednesday night came civic
night, when Robert A. Swink,
President of the Chamber of
Commerce and Civic Associa-
tion, presided. This evening the
Chamber of Commerce and
Civic Association presented the
leaders representing scores of

493

provides

.t- :4 PASADENA? MUNICIPAL EXHIBIT

 

c instructive organizatit'ms whose membership is
dev.:te<l to civic betterment and community build-
ing. In effect civic night was an occasion demon-
strating community cooperation, appreciation and
desire for articulate service.

The Recreation Department's Contribution

The Pasadena Department of Recreation. a co-
ordinated department of the ("ity of Pasadena and
the (‘ity School District, made a suitable contri-
hution to the municipal exhibit. Thousands of
people \‘isllifd the Departnunt's exhibit and were
fascinated by the educational features of the pre-
.entation and the demonstration given of the tech-
niques of recreati: in.

Five thousand departnmu bulletins mtitled “A
* .utdr tu- Services ‘ wer: issued to visiting patrons.
l'i. pulletm nhlude'l a .tatement of the I’asa-
n on Department of Recreation, its address. or-
. __ .a'lnt] lllCilllL. .l support and services ren-
ivred l: xh' w: d u'. atundanu- for tht past year

eject. .t an .ourl} net per patan ol 2}:

'l a -l '. {er ('apita ust of 27 -. .nt.-- l‘nder the

.Jbt n "\\h:. In I): .\I'|l leisur " imormation

 ule "n l‘r diup ".\t riiitv a (bar-

 ' mi ' ' .tno H‘K'ii' l-xpru. iwn Through
'1 .. U .. " taming rt i met .d at'tivi-
m ‘ .. .nd hw‘tbie a:  luded to-

t“ b '- t - ‘t 'h: n. rtment HI

I l NH! 1 nu-n. . I. It- It-l happi-

l. H u. ,. t ‘tt'c n. " we" tux
I» 11". 'l l t .‘ I up” "and
e . a...  . Iu "4: n .- . v.33
. ' ° t'. ‘ s. I. ..-r .‘. (I. - l.|".'

daily. after school, Saturdays and Sundays.

The personnel presenting the Department's ex-
hibit and demonstrations included the employed
stafT, Reconstruction Finance Corporation work-
ers, volunteers and members of the various com-
mittees. At each exhibit booth one of these workers
presided costumed front the Recreation Depart-
ment's community wardrobe which now contains
eight thousand costumes. Among the volunteer
workers were the President of the Parent-Teach-
ers' Council for the City School District. mem-
bers of the Executive Council of the Pasadena
Department of Recreation and other persons hold-
ing high offices of leadership in the community.

At each booth throughout the entire exhibit
there was a person familiar with the program and
activities who gave out information am only on
the features of his particular booth but of the
Department's work in its entire scope for chil-
dren, youth and adults. Although the exhibit
could only be at best samples of the type of pro-
gram aud work, it nevertheless illustrated the
various phases of its service.

At stated intervals there were demonstrations
of jigging dolls showing clogging, folk dancing;
iuterpretive dancing and aerobatics 'l‘hese demon-
strations were presented on a miniature stage
eslmcially lighted. The setting was artistic and
L‘ultorflll and the activities most intriguing.

Members of the inttsic, drama and art depart-
ments were :11 constant attendance making cos-
tumes for the. wardrobe. This gave an actual
-'i(‘_llll)l.‘btl‘ittlull of how the costumes were made
free nf cmt bv the patrons of the Recreation De-

PASADENA’S MUNICIPAL EXHIBIT 495

partment, the cost of materials having been earned
by making a nominal charge to the performances
given during the year. Last year 37,I93 people
actually participated in the dramatic performances
given by the Department, and 5,736 were cos-
tumed for special occasions of civic character, in-
cluding such events as the annual graduation
pageant at the Rose Bowl of the Pasadena Junior
Collegc, the circuses of the Recreation Depart-
ment, thc Armistice Day parade, the costuming of
the Collenette Dancers, the presentation of “The
Dearest Wish” with 106 in the cast at the opening
of the civic auditorium, and many other events.

Mothcrs of the childrcn participating in the
programs of the year gave a demonstration of
make-up including such characters as witches,
ghosts, clowns, monkeys, racial types and leading
characters in the various plays. These mothers
had been previously trained in the make-up class
meeting regularly throughout the year. Members
of the class give their services when they are
necded in connection with public demonstrations
and circuses.

Handcraft came in for its share of interest
when demonstrations were given of water-spar
painting, weaving, loom work, metal etching,
jewelry making and basket wcaving. A display of
articles made from waste materials impressed most
favorably officials and individuals concerned with
budget making. The exhibit was made out of dis-
carded coffee cans, mayonnaise jars, rubber tubes,
rags, leather and butcher paper and included
lamps, purses, shopping bags, doilies, toy animals,
cactus plant holdcrs, pot holders, rag dolls, games,
puzzles, book-ends and musical instruments. Great

interest was shown in the leather sample board '

used on the 'playgrounds to facilitate the work.
This included projects made out of leather re-
claimed from old basketballs, footballs, and play-
ground balls. Children were shown in the pro-
cess of cleaning the raw material and making such
articles as knife sheaths, coin purses, moccasins,
key chains, wrist bands, scissor cases, comb cases,
marblc pouches, book covers, whisk broom hold-
ers, harmonica cases and similar articles. This
demonstration was a revclation to many people
who had been in the habit of wasting such dis-
cardcd matcrial.

A miniature playground was on exhibit de-
signed to show the best type of layout for a neigh-
borhood playground. It included the regular
equipment such as a sand box, slide, horizontal
bar, climbing trce, traveling rings, wading pool,

basketball courts, baseball back stops and other
facilities. The miniature playground showed the
proper type of surfacing and the space require-
ment for games, sports and various types of
activities. I

\Vhile these exhibits demonstrated and pre-
sented layout, equipment, program and activities
at the majority of the centers, another type of
demonstration aroused much interest and elicited
considerable comment. This showed the work
done in the boys’, girls’ and women’s hobby clubs.
The participants displayed much creative ability,
and the originality and beauty of the articles made
showed a most profitable use of leisure time in
worth while hobbies. They included advanced
basketry projects, oil paintings, Crayonex, wall
hangings, tea tiles, leather tooling projects such
as purses, belts and book marks, advanced loom
weaving in wool, cotton and linen with scarfs,
purses, linen towels, table runners and napkins,
coffee sets, silver work, bracelets, rings, belts, clay
modeling, lamp bases and shades, carved wood
book-ends and penholders.

, The marionette theatre showed two types of
plays, including the manipulation of string and
hand puppets. A complete stage and many mar-'
ionettes were on diSplay—samples from the nine
puppet theatre characters made by the department.

In addition to the demonstrations and to per-
sonal interviews which took place when bulletins
of information were passed to inquiring citizens,
there were run periodically throughout the day
and evening slides showing feature pictures of the
activities — the general playground program,
sports, hobbies, dramatics, circuses, bands, eve-
ning recreation, recreation for Mexican groups
and for industrial workers, annual tournaments
and league events and similar activities.

Finally, placed at vantage points were signs and
pictures giving publicity to the Department’s pro-
gram, service bureau, and features of a yearly
program Open to all age groups based on interests,
needs and skills, and which pointed out the values
to thc individual or group.

The municipal exhibit was a valuable addition
to the program of activities for the City of Pasa-
dena. It reflected great credit to every depart-
ment and was revealing to the patrons and tax-
payers. The opportunity which was afiorded the
Recreation Department to present its program
proved of inestimable value to the citizens and the
Department alike as the numerous subsequent in--
quiries and calls for service have definitely proved.

Can Recreation Areas Be Made Beautiful
As Well As Useful?

 

Courtesy South Parks Commission, Chicago—

This aerial view of one of the South .
Parlts illustrates how beauty and utility
may be combined in a recreation area.

ms Qt'tisriox will be answered in the atiirma-
T tive by some. and in the negative by others.

Those who have had the experience of seeing
trees, shrubs and lawns destroyed, either wilfully
or more or less accidentally, as a result of the in-
tensive use of such areas for various athletic pur-
poses may say that any attempt to beatttify play
areas is a.waste of time and money.

Assuming that funds are available for the beau-
tification of playgrounds and athletic fields. we
believe that they should be made attractive as well
as useful.

If the fields are large enough to provide for such
games as baseball. football, tennis, etc., and still
leave a seetion that can be
maintained as a place for
those who prefer to take their
recreation in a more passive
manner where trees. shrubs.
lawns and possibly flower
beds may be planted. then

such areas may be provided
for. with interest.

4‘)! .

This statement was read by Mr. Thomas
before the New England Parlt Association
in May. I934 and is printed here through
the courtesy of Parks and Recreation.
Because of the high standard which the
parks of Providence have attained under
the direction of Mr. Thomas. his answer
to this vexing question should be read

By
ERNEST K. THOMAS

Superintendent of Parts
Providence. R. l.

Thcse sections should provide plenty of seats
and, if possible picnic tables and possibly outdoor
fireplaces; parents may then accompany their chil-
dren sometimes to the playgrounds and find places
where they may rest while the youngsters are par-
ticipating in games; the whole family may meet
on the grounds for picnic lunches occasionally,
and Johnny and Mary will not feel that going
home for lunch or supper is taking them away
from a game they are much interested in : and par-
ents will not worry. as they often do, when their
offspring fail to come home on time for meals.

The idea of making recreation fields serve the
whole fantily and provide facilities other than the
usual games. such as baseball and tennis. is one
that should be encouraged wherever possible.
Cards, checkers and numerous other games can be
played outdoors just as well as baseball. There is
much to be said in favor ,of
the whole family going to
outdoor recreational fields
where the younger people
may enjoy the more active
games. and where the older
people may play cards, check-
ers. read or “just sit.” In
order that there shall be no

CAN RECREATION AREAS -BE MADE BEAUTIFUL? 497

interference between two such sections of a rec-
reational field, they must be rather definitely sepa-
rated. The active play area should be fenced in to
keep the players from using the smaller area for
games and to protect the planting from being run
over and destroyed.

Relatively small areas may be planned in this
way; if the field is bounded by streets, then a
fence may be placed a sufficient distance away
from the curb to provide for a sidewalk, a stretch
of grass and trees between the fence and the curb.
active play to be confined within the fenced area.
Another plan would be to put the fence on the
property line and do the planting of trees and
shrubs on the inside of the fence; this would
neces'sitate another low fence to protect the grass
strip, seats, trees and shrubs that may be provided
from the active play area.

Any planting that may be done should be pro-
tected by some such plan; otherwise, it may well
be a waste of time and money. If the area is
small, or if it is desired to do only a minimum of
planting, then a row of trees around the boundary
of the property will do much to improve the ap-
pearance: if the small area is fenced, then vines
may be planted to climb the'fences. A good ex-
ample of this was observed at the Yale tennis
courts in New Haven. The common grape vine
was used for the most part and it was surprising
to note how much the green foliage of the vines
softened the stiff lines of the steel fences and
added a touch of beauty to the whole. area.

If no fences are used, then the area provided
for older people to rest or play their games of
cards and checkers may be marked off by planting
a hedge which, in time, will give this area a little
protection from the activities going on in the play
area; an inexpensive wire fence may be needed to
protect the hedge for a while. Hedges may also
be used when the field is divided by a difference
in elevation; steps may be used to connect the
two levels, and a hedge planted along the bottom
or the t0p of the bank dividing the two areas.

It will not be necessary to go into a discussion
-of the plant material that may be used for the
purpose of beautifying recreational areas; park
men are familiar with the plants that may be used
for the different locations. I would simply say
that there are a number of trees and shrubs which
are not new, but seldom seen in park plantings,
that might well be used in place of the common
ones so often seen and used extensively.

The ,species used is not important as long as
they are adapted to the locations and purposes in
mind. It is important, however, to thoroughly
prepare the soil for planting; excavate the soil
from two to three feet deep for planting trees and
shrubs; put a foot of old manure or leaf mold in
the bottom and two feet of good loam on t0p; the
roots of trees and shrubs will then go down into °
the soil, and the organic matter in the bottom will
act as a reservoir and hold plant food and
mmsture.

Planting trees and shrubs in shallow holes with
no preparation of the soil is poor practice; some
rugged species may even survive this treatment,
but they would do much better if given prOper
treatment. I

No plant can exist without water; if possible,
always provide some means of watering lawns,
shrubs and trees.

Better not plant at all if, after planting, the
trees, shrubs and vines are going to be neglected;
they will need attention such as pruning at the
proper time and in the proper manner, watering,
spraying and feeding. Trees and shrubs need
feeding and watering just as much as roses to
keep them in good health.

Yes, I would say recreational areas can be made
beautiful as well as useful.

“A thing of beauty is a joy forever.”

One of the first pamphlets issued by the Na—
tional Recreation Association—then the Play-
ground Association—was “Landscape Gardening
for Playgrounds.” In it Charles Mulford Rob-
inson said: “It is a curious thing that we makers
of playgrounds have so commonly overlooked the
fiowers; have fancied that any old vacant lot,
however bare, would perform its full playground
function of giving chance for the play of the
muscles. For when we build parks, which are only
bigger playgrounds for bigger people, the flowers
and the beauty of landscape are the first things
thought of. That is, when we plan for ourselves,
we recognize that beauty is one of the things most
craired in the parks. But when we are planning
for the children, to whom nature’s book has never
been opened, we tell them to run and jump, to
learn basketry and the principles of civic govern-
ment; but to look for nothing beautiful—even
though, as consequence, the seals never fall from

their eyes and the loveliness of plant life never be
revealed.”

 

 

A New Recreation

, dena dedicated its
Center tn Altadena

 

ing located in Re-
creation Park. For this center $35,000 was
contributed by C. W'. A. and S. E. R. A: $2,500
in construction supervision was given by Los
Angeles County and $800 in materials by the
Board of Control in charge of the building.
The Board is equipping and furnishing the
building at an additional cost of $4,000, the
money to be raised by a series of special events.
The title is vested in the County Board of
Supervisors who in turn lease it to the local
Board of Control composed of representatives
from each of the twenty local organizations.

A children’s theater
is one of the newest
ventures launched
by the Extension
Department of the Milwaukee, \\"isconsin,
Public Schools. Opened in November the
theater, which is housed in the beautiful audi-
torium of one of the junior high schools, is
presenting each Saturday a play or some other
entertainment feature for children. The presen-
tations are given by adult casts. The purpose
is to interest children in drama, innsic and
other forms of worth while entertainment
suitable to their years.

403

A Children's Theater
for Milwaukee

IN October, Alta-

new recreation build-

llRANCI‘lING out
into new fields of

More Singing tn

Oakland adult activity, the

Oakland, California,
Recreation Department announces the organ-
ization of a new department of music under the
direction of \Valter H. Bundy, a leader of long‘
experience in choral music. The program will
be made as varied as possible so that many
people may participate. The meetings are held
in municipal club houses in various parts of
the city. On Monday evenings there is a men's
glee club; on Tuesday a mixed chorus of 150.
voices; on \Vednseday an Italian choir; on Thurs-
day a Negro chorus, and on Friday community
singing. In the months to come these groups will
present many concerts in the theater of the
municipal auditorium and will broadcast pro-
grams over local radio stations.

DURING the week
of November 12th a
hobby show was held
in Buffalo, New
York, under the auspices of the Neighborhood
and Recreation Division of the Council of
Social Agencies for the purpose of focusing
public attention and interest on the "fun and
health-giving possibilities of hobby riding."
The preponderance of entrants were stamp col-
lectors. Possibly the most unusual entry was a
collection of many different species of live

Recent Hobby Shows
and Expositions

WORLD AT PLA Y

snails raised by the young woman who placed
them on exhibit. Enthusiasm over the exhibit
ran high. .

In October the Department of Playground
and Recreation. of Los Angeles, California,
staged a handicraft and hobby exposition show-
ing the great variety of art activities and handi-
craft projects conducted for individuals of all
ages at the municipal playgrounds and com-
munity centers. In order to demonstrate how
the recreation classes were conducted, the most
skilful among the class members were placed
in charge of special booths at the exhibit where
they showed how the different objects were
made. Marionette shows in which the puppets
made by children of the playgrounds were used
were given during the two day exhibit as an
additional attraction.

From October 30th through November 6th
the \Vestc'hester County, New York, Recrea-
tion Commission held its first recreation ex-
position in which many hobbies were shown.
The interesting program issued contains not
only a list of the exhibits but much informa—
tion about recreation in various cities and
towns of the county. A few copies of the pro-
gram are available at the office of the National
Recreation Association. Anyone desiring a
copy may secure it by sending three cents
postage to cover the cost of mailing.

Tournaments in Oklahoma City.—-Tourna-
ments were the order of the day on Oklahoma
City’s park playgrounds last summer. The
tournament method was used with great
success in the following sports: Softball,
volley ball, croquet, horseshoe pitching,
tennis, swimming, tenniquoit, checkers, mill,
shuffleboard, bicycle parade, marbles and
handcraft. Elimination events were held in
neighborhood parks. Those winning in the
local events then competed in one of the four

district tournaments and finally in the city-.

wide tournament. This plan insured an op-
portunity for everyone to take part whether a
poor or good player, with the “top notchers”
to delight the spectators in the finals.

The supervisor of 'each park conducted the
local elimination events. The supervisors at
the large park centers where the district
tournaments were held served as chairman of
their districts and selected supervisors to serve

 

Wen) “Books for
‘Recreational Weeds

HOBBIES
FOR EVERYBODY

Edited by Ruth Lampland

What will you recommend as a hobby? And what
suggestions should you make as to how to develop
it? Here is just the book to help you answer ques-
tions such as these. Recreation directors everywhere
will welcome this book, in which fifty notables
describe their personal enjoyment of as many dif-
ferent hobbies. Here is an encyclopedic manual on
how to tackle and develop new and stimulating in-

terests including every popular activity of today.
Eva Le Gallienne. Fannie Hurst. Rudy Vallee. Tony

Sarg. Ely Culbertson. Sigmund Spaeth. Johnny
Farrel are some of the hobbyists included. $3.00

WOOD-CARVING
AS A HOBBY

By Herbert W. Faulkner

“Any person who can sharpen a pencil can learn to
carve wood!" says the author of this fascinating
book, which tells in clear and exact fashion how
to master a delightful craft. The use of the tools
is explained, the selection of woods and patterns.
the creation of carved panels. ornaments. furniture.
Writes Earnest Elmo Calkins. “I know no man better
fitted to write a book about wood-carving than
Herbert Faulkner. He has taught it for years and

understands the beginner's vieWpoint.” Fully
illustrated. $2.00

HOW YOU CAN
GET A JOB

By Glenn L. Gardiner

And do they ask your help in getting jobs? In this
volume a successful executive who has personally in-
terviewed more than 36.000 job-seekers tells just
why some succeed and others fail. Written in specific
question-and-answer. form. it shows how to find the

right openings, write letters of application. interview
prospective employers. $1.50

FREEI-IAND DRAWING
SELF-TAUGHT

By Arthur L.. Guptill

An unusual self-help manual on how to begin in

developing_your talent for drawing in every medium.
Fully illustrated. $3.50

Get these books from your bookseller
or direct from the publisher.

HARPER 8: BROTHERS
1%? East 33rd St. New York

 

499

50’) MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

   

Magazinestiand Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles l
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, December 1934
Play at School. by Lewis R. Barrett

The Record (Girls' Friendly Society), December 1934
A Handmade Christmas

The Catholic Charities Review, November 1934

Juvenile Delinquency in Los Angeles County, by Rt.
Rev. Msgr. Thomas J. O'Dwyer.

Parks and Recreation, November 1934

The F.E.R.A. and Reconstruction, by Colonel Joseph

Hyde Pratt . Y
New Trends in Park Planning. by John. Noyes
County and Regional Parks—Their Social and Eco-

nomic Importance, by W.  Stinchcomb
Twentieth National Recreation Congress Outstand-

ipg, by L. H. Weir
Tennis Courts and Fees for Sports

The Nation's Schools, December 1934

\Videning the Uses of the School Plant, by Arthur
B. Moehlman

The American School Board Journal, December 1934

Recreational Planning in Relation to School-Plant
Planning, by George D. Butler

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1934

Toward Abundant Living—The Twentieth National
Recreation Congress Reviewed, by Weaver Pang-

burn
Wichita Summer Recreational School, by Frank K.

Reid

The American City, December 1934

Design for 3. Municipal Recreation Center
Albany's New Municipal Stadium, by E. D. Greenman

PAMPHLETS

Nature's Plan—For Parks and Parhuvaystecreational
Lands

Regional Planning Federation of the Philadelphia
Tri-State District

Annual Report of Playground and Recreation Association
of Wyoming Valley, Pa., 1934

Three Years of Public Unemployment Relief in New
York State

Temporary Emergency Relief Administration,
Albany, N. Y.

Winter Program on Memphis’ Playgrounds, 1934-1935

The Heart Through Art -

A Study of the Emotions. School Betterment
Studies. Vol. lV. No.1

  
 

on the tournament committee. \Vhen the city-
wide meets were held the Recreation Depart-
ment's director of athletics and contests took
charge assisted by the supervisors who had
tournament finalists. '

Activities in Glens Falls—Last year approx-
imately 300,000 people took part in the activities
of the Glens Falls, New York, Outing Club,
Inc., of which Ruth Sherburne is Executive
Secretary. For the third year the Club had
charge of 464 subsistence gardens for the \Vel-
fare Department of the city.

Sacramento Receives A Notable Gift—A
$150,000 gift to the City of Sacramento.
California, for the construction of a swimming
pool and a club house in McKinley Park is
provided in the will of the late Florence Clunie,
native Sacramentan and widow of Congress-
man Thomas  Clunie. The will reads as
follows:

“I bequeath to the City of Sacramento $150.-
000 to be expended by the City Council for the
erection of a club house, which shall be pri-
marily but not exclusively adapted for the
comfort of and use by women and children and
for the erection near it of a swimming pool for
the use of the public. These improvements
shall belong to the City of Sacramento and
shall be erected at McKinley Park, or if at the
time of my death similar improvements have
been erected at the park, they shall be erected
upon some other public park belonging to the
City of Sacramento.”

The center is to be known as the Florence
Turton Clunie Memorial.

Westchester County Children's Theater.—

The \Vestchester \VorkshoP children's theater
in September produced "Alice in \Vonderland”
in the Little Theater of the County Center in

'White Plains, New York. Thirty children gave

eight scenes from the famous classic. The
costumes were made and designed by members
of the children's theater from the Original
illustrations by Tenniel. This production was
one of a series sponsored by the \Vorkshop.

Playground Accidents in Los Angeles.—
The Department of Playground and Recrea-
tion of L05 Angeles, California, has made

I

I/VHAT CA.\r THE CHURCHES DO FOR ABUNDAN'I' LIVING?

a tabulation of the number of accidents
which occurred on playgrounds during the
year 1933 and the present year up to Sep:
tember 30th. It was found that the average
number of serious accidents, that is, accidents
sufficiently serious to require medical atten
tion, during the year 1933 was 16 and during
the present year 14. “This decline in the num-
ber of accidents per month,” states the report,
“is of more significance when viewed in rela-
tion to attendance. The accident rate per
1,000,000 units of attendance for each month

during 1933 was 1.62, and during 1934 to
date. 1.06.”

What Can the Churches Do for

Abundant Living?
(Continued from 'page 464)

times of transition and change. If the future of
the world depends upon an honest, poised facing
of the issues of life in untoward settings, then the
part of the recreation worker is not to be tossed
aside lightly. You are perhaps the most potent
force in the rebuilding of a better world.

A defeated man comes home at the end of the
day full of disillusionment, despair and disap-
pointment. He tosses himself restlessly upon his
bed but cannot sleep. Then into the hands of that
tired man, breaking under the strain of untoward
circumstances, some one puts a bit of balsam
wood, a knife, some pigments and a tiny brush
with which he builds some tiny boat or plane.
Gradually the unpleasantness of the day fades—
his tired nerves relax; he is a child again as with
rollicking enthusiasm he makes some simple trin-
ket! An hour later his cares are forgotten and he
sleeps like a little child.

\Ve have given a great deal of consideration to
the working hours of the day, surrounding them
with regulations, laws and hazards. We have
given a good deal of consideration to the sleeping
hours so that nothing may interfere with mo-
ments of rest and relaxation, but we have given
very little thought to the leisure hours of life.
That is the untouched area and perhaps the last
frontier of present day society. T 0 the conquest
of that last frontier the leaders of the creative
arts and religion dedicate themselves.

a: a: a:

\\'e are at the parting of the ways. A whole
new world is being born. We are standing on the
threshold of a new era. Our likes and dislikes,

 

   

 

BRING
EVERWEAR SAFETY
.. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New Ever-Wear Spring-Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR—206. (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special, EverWear-designed, fabric-re-
enforced. tougb. springy. !ong-wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber. which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel, as to give a soft. springy. resilient.
swing seat of remarkable safety, strength and
durability.

A!! outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETY! All t0p and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETY! A!! edges are
soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETY! Al! ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-
mediately spring back to their norma! shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETY! No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETY! No wood enters its construction: it can-
not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETY! Requires
no painting. '-

Suspension clevises are reversib!e. making both sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the
life of the seat): DURABILITY! Rubber tough.
long—wearing tire stock: DURABILITY! Spring
steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITY!
Bui!t to withstand heavy weights (tested under an

active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH! Edge-
ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure

or blows (adding further to its SAFETY!) .

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY! Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 each, net, f. o. b. Springfield.
Ohio, U. S. A. Price subject to change without
notice) : ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for a!l new swing outfits.

NOW 1 !
BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . , TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by

The Ever-Wear Manufacturing Company

Springfield. Ohio. U. S. A.

The World’s oldest and largest exciust've maker of play-
ground, beach and pool apparatus; a complete line of the

SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

501

It it only #9:

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH AND RECREATION

DIGEST

that offers you twenty-odd articles a month.
condensed from fifty leading publications
in the fields of physical education. health
and recreation. Here is an ECONOMICAL
means of obtaining the best thought and
latest information in an easy. CONVENI-
ENT, readable form.

The DIGEST should appeal to EVERY
RECREATION WORKER who wishes to keep
abreast of the times in the matter of recre-
ation literature and the related subjects.
health and physical education.

AN ADVISORY BOARD of prominent
educators guides the policy of the magazine.

 

Date

The DIGEST
29 Exerea STREET
Bosron. Massacnusst

Gentlemen:

Kindly enter my subscripzion to the DIGEST at
the introductory subscription rate of one dollar
per year.

U Enclosed 6nd one dollar.
D Please send me a bill.

Name '
(Hr . Mm. etc.)

Add rest

RECREATION AND THE OFFICE OF EDUCATION

our philosophies and sciences. our literature and
culture are all changing. \Vhat we do in the next
fifteen years will tell for good or ill upon the
generations of men for the next one hundred
years. The world is on the march and mankind is
seeking a new and better way of life. we do not
want the old days to come back with another red
night of woe and tears. Exploitation, greed.
suspicion are no longer adequate forces for a per-
manent civilization. Man’s inhumanity to man
has made countless thousands to mourn. Looking
at the world one would suppose that we have
built our civilization upon human suffering rather
than upon human understanding. Perhaps Dosto—
yevsky was right in saying, "The only contribu-
tion which civilization has made is to increase our
capacity for pain.” But a new day is coming and
the voice of religion rings across the land, “I
make all things new." The world is at spring.
New tires are playing in the heart of the earth
and civilization is becoming molten again. New
waters are gushing out of hidden springs. finding
new channels to new and undiscovered seas. New
seeds are pushing life through the thick subsoil.
destined to bring mankind a better harvest. In
that remaking of the world the minister of re-
ligion and the minister of the creative arts touch
hands and link hearts. They are the gardeners
of a better world; they are the keepers of the
pathway to the eternal stars; they are comrades
in the fellowship of compassion. This generation
rises up and calls them blessed.

Recreation and the Office of Education

(Continued from page 475)

youth to obtain work are meager to a (legree not
experienced in previous periods of economic de-
pression. The codes of fair competition operate
properly to give jobs to adults: continuation
schools have decreased in number; apprentice-
ship opportunities are meager indeed. Two and a
quarter million of young people reach the age of
employahility each year. Since October, 1929.
more than ten million have reached the employ-
able age. Other millions below 21 years when the
depression began are now between 22 and 26.
From these sixteen million young pc0ple 18 to 25
are recruited the increasing army of transients.
the pathetic army of idlers loaling on the street
corners in every city and village in the country.
and the startingly long list of names on the ros-
ters of our penal institutions. It seems imperative

JUDGE THOMAS H. DARBY 503

Judge Thomas H. Darby

In the latter part of November Judge Thomas
H. Darby of Cincinnati, Ohio, passed away. Few
people play so large a part in community life as
did Judge Darby. He was an active community
chest worker, a worker for the Red Cross, Chair-
man of the Boy Scout Court of Honor, an or-
' ganizer of the Negro Boy Scouts, President of the
Board of Trustees of the Hyde Park Community
Church, a member of the Y.M.C.A. and of the
Phi Delta Pi Legal Fraternity, and of a number
of gymnasium and athletic clubs. Since 1921 he
has held the criminal law post at the University
of Cincinnati Law College.

For five years Judge Darby served as sponsor
for the National Recreation Association’s letters
of appeal sent to Cincinnati residents and had
agreed to continue for 1935.

that something comprehensive be planned for
these millions of young people.

In June of this year a conference of about
seventy people was called by the Commissioner
of Education to discuss the possibilities of a na-
tional program for this group. Persons from all
sections of the country interested in (a) employ-
ment, (2)) education and guidance, and (c) lei-
sure time activities worked out a statement of
basic principles which should guide in the de—
velopment of a program for youth, and outlined
the activities which were thought to be essential
for such a program. \Vork has continued dUring
the summer and fall months looking toward a
comprehensive program of employment, educa-
tion and recreation for these millions of young
people, and it is hoped that additional facilities
may soon be made available. .

Another emergency activity of the Office dur-
ing this past year has been the direction of the
emergency education program in cooperation with
the FERA. This has been commented upon at
length in other places so that no extended descrip-
tion of its activities is necessary here. I shall re-
port only that the program as financed by the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration last
year served nearly 1,500,000 pupils by placing
nearly 50,000 persons on teacher pay rolls and
that the teachers thus employed represented an
almost limitless range of instructional interests.

vocational and avocational, hobbies and work in- '

terests, general academic education and cultUral
subjects. This year's program already under way

    

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

BE READY

For the 1935 Season

with DIAMOND Official Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories. There's Ireen enioymenttor
everyone in the healthy exercise of horseshoe
pitching. The DIAMOND line is the favorite
of amateurs and professionals alike. Malre
your plans NOW tor the coming season.

Write for information

 

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46I0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

promises even a richer assortment of education and
recreation for large numbers of the unemployed.

In conclusion it is only fair to say that educa-
tion has helped us to acquire leisure time for rec-
reation; it must also help to prepare persons for
the use of this leisure.

The Educational Program in the C. C. C.

(Continued from page 478)

matics, orchestra, taxidermy, arts and crafts in
leather, metal, and wood, nature study and pho-
tography. These are within the purview of the
educational pr0gram. In addition the War De-
partment provides generously for the more robust
forms of recreation, such as boxing, baseball, bas-
ketball. Many camps have tennis courts, ping
pong tables and horseshoe pits. Inter-camp com-
petition in baseball, basketball, and football is
keen.

More than half a million young men have lived
in these camps, most of them for approximately a
year. Many, many thousands of them had spent
their lives in cities. One cannot escape the con-
viction that thousands upon thousands of them

(Continued on page 504)

504 NATIONAL STANDARDS OF PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS FOR GIRLS

National Standards oi Physical

Achievement For Girls

UNDER THE auspices of the National Recrea-
tion Association and with the cooperation of
the State Directors of Health and Physical Edu-
cation, a committee of women has for a ntnnber
of years been at work on a study, on a large and
extensive scale, designed to establish standards of
physical achievement for girls. The performance
of about 150,000 girls. whose records were
secured from all parts of the United States repre-
senting a complete cross section of the school
population of the country, has been measured and
scored. In states having a State Director of
Health and Physical Education the directors
selected twenty schools classified according to en-
rollment. In states having no such directors con-
tacts were made through people well known in the
field of physical education.

The women’s committee selected fifty-two dif-
ferent activities which are common in the physical
education program. The choice of activities in
which skills are being studied was determined by
certain considerations: '

1. Activities must involve fundamental body
movements.

[0

. Activities must involve many different
body coordinations.

3. Activities which are usable in many types
of situations.

4. Activities suitable for areas of dense popu-
lation and for less dense areas.

which can be used as test

5. Activities
elements.

6. Activities which can be treated to relatively
objective measurement.

7. Activities which are a challenge to the
girls because of their probable interest.

Four classilications of activity made to facilitate
the handling of the data covered game skills, self-
testing aetivities, individual athletic activities and
water activities. The data has been divided for
statistical treatment into four types: (1) Those
events measured and scored in time units: (2)
Those events measured in distance units; (3)
Success or failure scores: (4) The number of
successful efTorts in a given number of trials.

The achievement standards when computed will
be on a percentile basis. This will make it pos-
sible for a teacher to "place" student performance

from time to time on the basis of achievement and
progress. The standards will help to furnish moti-
vation for the program in time allotment, training
the personnel, increased facilities and opportuni-
ties for participation. They will also assist the
teacher in rating her own curriculum, methods
and teaching achievements.

The study should be expected to answer the
following questions: \‘t'hat skills do girls at each
age between eight and eighteen years of age pos-
sess? \Vhat may be expected of girls of each of
these age groups? \Vhat‘shall the requirements of
national achievement standards be? \Vhich activi—
ties are fundamentally most sound as a basis for
standards?

Miss Amy Howland, Department of Public In-
struction, Mt. Vernon, New York, is the director
of the study. It is expected that the completed
standards will be published by the National Rec-
reation Association early in 1935.

have in this camp experience gained some appre-
ciation of the beauties and the wonders of out-
door life. The educational program in many camps
stimulates this appreciation of nature. Here is a

statement from one camp educational adviser:

“The most interesting group in the whole company
is made up of the ‘Focil Hunters.’ Located among the
rolling hills of the great terminal morain. this camp
is in one of the beauty spots of the East. One of the
boys brought in a cluster of calcite crystals. Great
interest was aroused and an era of prospecting set in.
Now every one prides himself on his collection and
shows it to every visitor. Beyond this point no one
apparently, gave the matter a thought. The thousands
of years the crystals had lain in the rocky bed. the
thousands more the stream had been wearing away at
the gorge, were not realized. The fact that, but for
the great glacier there would be no falls, and the
stream would be flowing in the opposite direction, was
unknown. There is a history of a hundred thousand
years in those two hundred foot cliffs."

To scores of thousands of these young men this
term of enrollment in the CCC will be the most
vivid experience of their lives. Here they have
found refuge from defeat and despair, they have
lived well ordered lives. they have gained in
strength and vigor, they have cultivated new in-
tellectual interests, they have acquired new skills.
they have learned the values and the means of rec-
reation, they have developed capacities for self-
expression.

Listen to this sonnet, a casual hit of verse writ-
ten by \\'oodrow G. Strickland, an enrollee in
Company 1406, Youngstown, Florida. and printed
in last week's issue of “Happy Days,“ the official
CCC newspaper:

THE CONTRIBUTION OF RECREATION TO RECOVERY 505

TSCHAIKow'SKY—in whom Beauty was at war

W'ith Gloom—composed symphonic strains which are
Far more intense than dull and pounding roar

Of waves upon a somber, rocky shore;

More lovely than the tinkling sound of bells,

Or fairies dancing in secluded dells,

More tendcr than the dreams of men inspircd

By love—of sweetness, more than dreams required;

More lofty than the tall and rugged peak

That frowns alike on men both old and weak.
TSCHAIKOWSKYI O divine immortal son

Of parents—Gloom and Beauty—who opposed
Each other how did you combine, in one,

The traits they left, in songs that you composed?

In future years numbers of them will turn to
the forests in their vacations as soldiers return to
retmions. The spell of the woods is upon them.
W ith their families they will go into the national
and state parks and forests to relive again the ex-
periences of their CCC days, to seek refuge from
the humdrum of their daily surroundings, to Find

ratreation.

The Contribution of Recreation

to Recovery
(Continued from page 482)
about. There is the great problem of the youth

for whom we have been struggling to formul-
ate a plan. I suppose realistically we haven’t

such a plan. Or maybe we have one and

haven’t the money to pay for it. It must still
be said there are millions of these youths

whose lives, at least at the present time, are

going down to ruin. What is to be done for

them? They certainly would like to have the
answer!

I have during the past two or three weeks
read letter after letter from the boys and girls
all over America-~intelligent, objective, realis—
tic. Several are saying, “Here I am; here is
what I have done. What is the future? What
is there for me?”

I don’t need to press that point except to
say we do recognize the problem and hope
that before the winter has gotten very far
under way 'a-definite plan can be sent to the
different states which will offer these boys and
girls some concrete methods for the construc-
tive use of their time.

Then there is the problem of all of the tran—
sients, I don’t know where we are coming out
on that. Fortunately we know now how many
there are. Formerly we were told there were
millions of them. \Ve know that the number

  
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
  

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
ONE PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK

Enclosed find .

with the . .. ..   issue.

Enclosed find $1.75 for SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE and the Special Playground Packet.

Name ........................................................ ..

Address ................................................... ..
City and State . ................................. ..

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE

SPECIAL OFFER FREE!

0 A set of six colored safety posters will be given
FREE with every new yearly subscription.

0 SAFETY EDUCATION is the only magazine

devoted entirely to child safety problems. The
material is based on seasonal activities and
consists of colored posters, graded lesson
plans. informational articles, short plays, stor-
ies, assembly programs, patrol news items, etc.

 for which please send SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE beginning

. . . . . . . . . o o . . . o o . . . o o o o o o . o . o o o o o . o . o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o . o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o . o o o o o o o o o o o o o o Q u o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo

$1.00 a Year

$1.00 a Year

——————————-——- ----

:06 CITIZENS" COUNCILS FOR CONSTRUCTH'E ECONOMY

probably isn't over a million and I don't think
there are more than 750,000 all over America.
\Ve think we have found a partial answer for
this problem. \Ve are struggling with it, and
if we had made as much progress with the
youth problem as we have with that of the
transients, I for one would feel better satis-
fied in regard to it, although it is still an un-
answered problem for the older man.

I want to say to all of you that this admin-
istration does apreciate all you have done and
we probably know more about what you have
done than you think we know. \Ve know how
in state after state you have given technical
guidance and leadership. \Ve know how you
have brought into the picture in the local com-
munities projects which have been made a part
of the work program. The Federal Emergeney
Relief Administration is deeply indebted to
you. The taxpayers owe you a debt of grati-
tude. The communities of America are deeply
indebted to you, and somehow I think that
above all else the unemployed are grateful
to you.

I know whom you reach. Not so many
people know that. I know that by and large
the people you reach are our people—the people
we must meet. Your work touches them and your
efforts are directed toward their welfare. I know
of no group in America working on the prob-
lems of soeial work that is so completely in
contact with the group that is trying to help
as is this group here. We know that and we
appreciate it, and I hope that before this year
is up we can effect some form of organic co-
operative relationship with your organization
which will further the benefits we mutually
desire to make available to those of our fel-
low citizens who are in such desperate need

at the present time.

Citizen's Councils for Constructive

Economy
(Continch from rage 439)
The eitizens' council in Little Rock, Arkansas,

took an important part in the recent campaign for
city manager form of government. Other items
on this council's roster are consolidation of city
and county hospitals under a non-partisan hos-
pital eommission, improvement of the fire depart-
ment to lower insurance ratcs, river development
and a sanitary sewage system.

A number of councils are cooperating with local
officials in working out projects for unemploy-

ment relief. The eitizens' council in Topeka, Kan-
sas, Conducted a lively pre-election campaign to
bring home to citizens in the county their respon-
sibility as voters and as a result there was the
smallest slacker vote reeorded in many years
This council sponsors a weekly Sunday afternoon
forum at which citizens are given an opportunity
to hear national authorities on social, economic
and political affairs. It is promoting a study group
in connection with the public night school, on
citizenship responsibilities. It brought about the
organization of a research committee in connec-
tion with the state legislature which is compiling
data to be used by legislators. The committee is
studying sueh subjects as state police and the
sales tax. It is organizing material, classifying it
and will have it available for legislators who may
act with the assurance that only a background of
factual material can give.

While the citizens' council program was launch-
ed as an emergency measure—that is, to stem the
tide of hysterical cut-and-slash economy—it is.
through the day-to-day operation of councils in
all parts of the country, demonstrating a much
wider usefulness. Citizens, in leaping into the
breach, have discovered that there is a permanent
place for them in the successful functioning of
democratic government—a place far greater and
far m0re challenging than going to the polls once
or twice a year. They have found that there is
need for a continuous searehlight in local gov-
ernment. There is need for the citizen to “follow
through," to help elected officials with advice and
suggestions, for mobilizing public opinion to back
the things that are worthwhile in our local com-
munity life. The citizens' council, as such a
searchlight and providing the mechanism for ef-
fective citizen action, is becoming an increasingly
important contribution to the preservation of
American democracy.

Hobbies As An Open Sesame

(Continued from page 493)
exhibitors. In conjunction with the show, they

staged a hobby program in the school auditorium.
Those whose hobbies were musie and dancing en-
tertained. and there were talks on stamp-collect-
ing, gardening, and other hobbies. The hobby
show created so much interest that they have de-
cided to make it an annual event in Nowata, and
several neighboring towns have decided to have
hobby shows, too. The best part of this show is
that it cost practically nothing—only the expendi-
ture for prize ribbons and crepe paper for the
tables.

HOBBIES AS AN OPEN SESAME TO COMMUNITY INTEREST 507

At the National Hobby Show

\Ve had not thought of having a National
Hobby Show until the sponsors of the Exposition
of \Vomen’s Arts and Industries made the sug-
gestion to us and offered us space at the Exposi-
tion which was held at the Hotel Astor last Octo—
ber. \V e were not sure how much of an exhibit
we would be able to get—there are hobbies which
are difficult to exhibit, and many more that defy
shipping. We were therefore very much pleased
to receive a hundred and twelve attractive ex-
hibits, some of which came from as far away as
Texas, California, and Oregon.

It 'was the variety of interests shown in the
exhibits at the Camp Fire Girls’ National Hobby
Show that attracted the most attention and caused
the most comment from visitors to the show. Over
eighty thousand people saw the show, and, of
these, literally hundreds lingered over them to
examine them in detail, to admire the excellent
workmanship, and to express again and again their
surprise that girls did so many and such vividly
interesting things. There were the boys who ex-
claimed at the airplane models and the sailboats;
the men whose attention was attracted to the
stamp and coin collections, the Indian totem poles,
and the sextant and star map, which were part of
an astonomy exhibit. There were the women, who
spoke with judicious praise of the fine needle—
work, and who admired the costume dolls, the
puppets, and the beadwork. And the girls them—
selves, both Camp Fire members and others, who
went from exhibit to exhibit in wonderment and
delight at the many different, fascinating sorts of
activity represented. More than one mother asked,
“Why is it my girl doesn’t find such interesting
things to do?” And more than one girl said, “I
wish our bunch did things like this.” To which,
-of course, we had our answers ready! _

Though at this show we exhibited only the
the girls’ hobbies, we found the same generous
interest and helpfulness among adults as had been
shown in other towns throughout the country.
The Exposition gave us space and cooperated
with us in every way. Ruth Nichols whose own
hobby, aviation, developed into her profession.
was chairman of the show and spoke on hobbies
at a tea at the Astor when the prize winners were
announced. Mrs. Howard Chandler Christy was
chairman of the committee on prizes, and as first
prize Mr. Christy generously made a sketch of
the winner. Other prizes were donated by friends
-and were given to the winners, as well as ribbons.
-Cups were given for the best city and group ex-

7148 camping
magazine

If you are interested in

The leadership of youth.

The swiftly changing methods in organized
camping.

The statements of leading thinkers on educa-
tion through camping.

Leadership training—Counsellor's Education.

Camp Programming—Administration.

Outdoor Sports and Activities.

New Games, Land and Water.

Swimming—Canoeing—Sailing.

Riding—Archery—Ritlery.

Woodcraft—Indian Lore—Nature.

Artscratt—Dancing—Stunts.

Council Fires—Story Telling.

Then read the Camping Magazine regularly

Send for a sample copy $2.00 a year.

Lane Hall,- Ann Arbor, Mich.
Dept. R

 

hibits. Tony Sarg was chairman of the judging
committee, and announced the winners over a
national radio hook-up, through the courtesy of
Claudine McDonald, who gave us time on her
Women’s Radio Review hour. Mary Margaret
McBride featured the show on her Martha Dean
program and in her N EA syndicated articles. and
a number of. other radio and magazine features
grew out of the show, besides a great deal of
newspaper publicity, both local and national.

We feel that the National Hobby Show was a
great success not only because it brought the
Camp Fire Girls organization the best type of
publicity—actual presentation of the activities of
the girls, together with interpretation of their
educational value—hut because it represented the
fun the girls were having with their- hobbies, and
the interest they had aroused in communities
throughout the country. Where it will lead, of
course, we have no idea. Some of these hobbies
may represent only passing interests; some may
lead to vocations; others to the real searching, ex-
perimenting, and adventuring that make a hobby
a lifetime joy. At least these youngsters, and a
good many of the older people, too, have had a

chance to see what infinite possibilities hobbies
represent.

 

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

 

Far Peoples

By Grace Darling Phillips. The University of Chicago

Press. Chicago. Illinois. $1.50.
"Axvoxe wtto wishes to understand the world in which

he lives would do well to acquaint himself with the

less organized interests of other people: their songs.
their proverbs. their games." state the editors in their
preface. To help promote international understanding
.\1iss Phillips has assembled some of the materials which
go to make up the every-day interests of other lands.
Most of the collection has never before been published in
English and has been gathered at first hand from per-
sons who are natives of the countries represented. The
folk lore given provides material for prOgrams repre-
senting India. China. Korea. Japan. the Philippines. Bra-
zi1. Africa and Russia. Adapted to the use of adults as
well as children. there is a rich storehouse of material or.
games. stories. poetry. music and general information for
the recreation worker. teacher and club leader. Miss
Phillips has made an exceedingly valuable contribution

in her book.

My Child and Camp

By Matt ‘Werner. Clark-Sprague Company. St. Louis.
Missouri. $1.75.
Tum: Is fortunately a growing body of literature on
the vital subject of camping. .\1r. \Verner's contri-
bution to this literature is important and welcome in the
appeal he makes to parents and to camp_directors to
realize the true significance of camping in the lives of
children and in his insistence on the principle of learn-
ing by doing. .\|r. Werner is a vigorous champion of
free choice in camp activities. His advice "To Coun-
selors" and "To Lloys" in two important chapters carry-
ing these headings is sane and pertinent.

Girl Scout Camps—Administration,
Minimum Standards, Waterfront Safety

Girl Seonts. Inc.. New York. $.75.
WITH 'rttr. ever growing interest in camps developed
by educational-recreational agcneies and by inunici-
pal recreation departments and similar groups. there is a
distinct need for this practical book which though de-
signed for the use of Girl Scout local units contains
much of interest to other groups. In Part I which deals
with administration and minimum standards for Girl
Scout camps such types of camps are discussed as over-
night and week-end camps. troop camps. day camps.
established camm. gypsy trips. winter calllps and camp-
ing for Brownies. Part 11 has to do with waterfront
safety art-1 the problems involved in maintaining swim-
ming. boating and canoeing areas and equipping them.
Minimum standards for waterfront safety are outlined.
The appendices contain much practical material.

503

Lasker's Manual of Chess

By'Emanuel Lasker. E. P. Button and Companv. New
\ork. $4.00. '

a. LASRER, who for twenty-six years held the world's.

championship in chess. in this new and completely
revised edition gives his own methods. his own rules of
play. the principles he has postulated and the conclusions
he has reached. ‘With its 308 diagrams. the volume pre-
sents the game from the simplest beginnings to the final
grand tactics of the master.

Handicraft“Simpliiied Procedure

and Proiects

By Lester Griswold. Obtainable from Lester Griswold.
Denver, Colorado. $1.00.

MORE THAN 300 projects and 400 illustrations are to he
found in this book which is devoted to the follow-
ing crafts—leather. celluloid. metal. wood. batik. rope
and cordage. and primitive Indian crafts. ‘With its con-
cise directions. illuminating pictures and diagrams. this
book should have an important place in every library
featuring handicraft projects.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ostrn Lu. President

om: If. quv. First Vice-Presideot
on: G. Wrasse. Second \‘iee-Presideol
Roun Gnu'rr, Third Vice-President
GUITAVUI T. Ktnv. Treasurer

Iiowno S. Bnuenn. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mu. Eowno W. Btoou. Carlisle Pa.
“'ILIAH Burrnwonu. Moline. Ill.
CLAIINCI M. Cults. Philadelphia. Pa.
first“ L. Conn-r Portland. Ore.
Mn. Arm-to: G. uuun, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tnunu Dawson. Locust Valle . L. 1.. N. Y.
Mu. Tnosus A. Botsox, West rancc. N. J.
onn H. quv. New York. N. Y.

on" Gnu-n. Baltimore. Md.
Aoma E. Gnrnrns. Seattle. Wash.
Cantu lino“, New York. N. Y. .
Mu. Cttnus V. litcsox. Miehman City. Iod.
Mn. Funcu DILACY livol, Plainlield. N. J.
GUITAVU! T. Ktuv New ‘tork. N. Y.
n. ma. Uxoox, lndiaonpolis. 1nd.
Mn. Cantu D. Lanna. Greeowich. Conn.
Ronnv Lustrn. Charlotte. N. C.

ourn Lu. Boston. Man.

owno 1-1. Looms. New York N. Y.
5‘11. McConov. Springfield. Nine.

to T. Mauser, Philadelphia. Pa.
Warn A. Mn. Pittsburgh. Pa.
Cut. 1“... Mutant". Au um. Me. .
Stu. Goon L. MILLI, \‘oodbury. N. ‘1'.
Mn. urn W. Wmswoarn. JI.. Washington. D. C
In: C. \‘Aun New York. N. Y.

"ante: 3f. Wanuao. New York. N. Y.
“I!!! G. \Ylnanr. Concord. N. H.

u. “'ILLIAII H. Woootx. 11.. Tucson. Arts.

