We Could Eat

" COULD EAT" has been said many times in many places. In our recreation centers leaders
sometimes forget how often the words are used “I could eat.” The country over. bread is
not broken commonly in the recreation center whether the center be a school building or a

special community building.

And yet eating together is one of the earliest racial forms of recreation. Children have
always arranged their little parties together where there was a sharing of whatever food they had

been able to forage.

Think for yourself of childhood days. True there were times when you were lost in
your play and came reluctantly to meals. Yet how clearly you remember the crackers and
cheese at an auction. the dinner under the apple tree for the threshers, the scalloped oysters at
the church supper. Perhaps all you remember of the wedding you attended as a small child is
how good the food tasted——even if the children were put off in a corner with a table to them-

selves.

Somehow awkwardness. loneliness disappeared and satisfaction and contentment and
oneness with the world came as you ate together as little children. Perhaps you men of eighty
remember the class of young men of seventeen you met with once a week to eat baked beans to-
gether. Nothing could possibly taste as good as you remember those beans to have been. Part

of the remembered joy of real camping is in the communal preparing and eating of food.

0

Now confess—shamefacedly if you are that way—that what stands out most in the

memory of that sail in and out of the Maine islands all day long is the smell of the clam-
‘ bake at the end. True the lights and shadows and the live sea on that day are remembered still.

but the memory is keener because perfect peace came as you ate together at the end.

The day you slipped away at dawn and brought back enough black bass for breakfast.
The fish you caught from a rock overlooking the ocean and broiled and ate without leaving
the rock. The coffee and bacon at the t0p of the mountain with your little fire in the crevice
in the rocks. Be not disdainful of the simple joy of eating together. Remember always that
eating is one of the oldest forms of recreation and simple food eaten with friends is often longer

remembered than the most expensive banquets.

Twenty-eight years ago. in 1907, a young man visited the South Park Recreation Cen-
ters of Chicago and one of the things that stood out then and that stands out now in memory
is the joy of friendly groups eating together in those centers. The fireplaces we provide in our
outlying parks to give groups opportunities for picnic meals together make wise provision for a

i deep human need. In the recreation systems the elemental human needs should ever be re-
membered and always men and women will be saying “I could eat.”

HOWARD BRAUCI-IER.

 

MARCH |935

 

557

 

So You’re Going to Have

Well—we've had one—and this
is about what you may expect!

oxEs, BASKETS and bundles of all shapes, sizes
B and descriptions poured into Elmwood Music
Hall in an almost endless procession. Each
package, large or small, held somebody’s precious
hobby. Paper wrappings, string and excelsior lay
ankle deep in many places on the floor. Excited
exhibitors and anxious sponsors joined forces in
futile attempts to hurry deliberate, plodding car-
penters and electricians who were putting the
finishing touches on the first—allegedly annual—
Buffalo Hobby Fair.

A quick, rapid scanning of the much thumbed
typewritten sheets containing the plan of prof
cedure was reassuring. Every detail seemed to
have been perfectly thought through. Every pos-
sible contingency, apparently, had been anticipated.
Committees formed six months before by the
Leisure Time Division of the Buffalo Council of
Social Agencies were diversely representative and
manifestly competent.

The advisory committee, composed of two hun-
dred prominent people, represented every civic,
social, religious and educational group in the city.
The executive committee was composed of men
and women who were recognized leaders and au-
thorities in their individual fields and included
social workers, merchants, teachers and industrial
leaders.

Surveys of civic recreational resources and
needs had been carefully made and studied. Re—
ports had been sifted and revised into plans
minute in every detail. Duties had been definitely
outlined and delegated. In fact, you reflected, as
you poured over your voluminous agenda, the
grOUnd work had been surprisingly well laid. Yet
now that the Hobby Fair was actually under way,
everything was resolving into a thrilling, exhila-
rating chaos!

The committee had set aside Sunday for the
installation of individual and organization ex-
hibits. Folks who have jobs are free on that day

a Hobby Show!

By GERTRUDE G. HUNT

Council of Social Agencies
Buffalo. N. Y.

to spend many hours tenderly arranging their hob-
bies for display. Folks who do not have jobs find
it a dull day anyway, and then, too, it is good to
work shoulder to shoulder with those who still
draw pay envelopes. Obviously the two classes do
not meet on week days. But there was another
advantage, still, in working on Sunday. On that
day, capable, trained workers from organization
offices were available as volunteers for almost any
type of work involved in setting up such an ex-
hibition. So, on Sunday we worked—and a
memorable day it was, moreover.

Mr. and Mrs. Exhibitor, their sisters, their
cousins and their aunts, worked like beavers from
sun—up to sun-down, hanging stamp frames, coin
cases, erecting doll houses, unpacking airplane
models, sorting out match box labels and playing
cards or arranging in dress parade china ele-
phants and miniature figures.

Monday had been reserved for the installation
of commercial exhibits. Because money is still
our only medium of exchange, despite our at-
tempts to revive the barter market, and because
some medium of exchange is just as necessary to
the success of a social project as it is to a com-
mercial enterprise, seventeen booths had been sold
to leading merchants. However, all booth contracts
stipulated that displays were to be used for ad-
vertising purposes only. Price marks and floor
sales were entirely taboo. Nor did this ruling
dampen one whit the enthusiasm of the merchants.
More than one assured the energetic commercial
chairman that whether he benefited financially or
not he was glad to lend his moral and financial
support to any project which might help to dispel
the chronic depression gloom which seemed to
cloak our city.

559

560

A pre-view for the press and the friends of the
exhibitors was scheduled for seven o'clock Mon-
day night. Sleep was snatched at Heetingly, some
time after midnight Sunday. Back on the job
bright and early Monday morning, the exhibits
chairman and the diminutive executive secretary,
with the publicity agent dogging their heels, flew
furiously about the dim cavern, popularly mis-
named the Music Hall. Lights must be held in
reserve for the sake of economy, it had been
decided.

Procrastinating amateurs and organizations were
still tacking up crocheted bed-spreads. polishing
copper trays and “rubbing down" wood inlays,
when the commercial exhibits arrived. Fears be-
gan to beset everyone that all would not be in
readiness for the appointed hour. The air was full
of noise and confusion.

“Mr. Mosher," someone wailed, “you promised
me a locked show case —- ”

"Yes, yes—what number is your booth?" Then
you heard a despairing masculine voice, “Guard!
Guard! \V here in Sam Hill is a guard? Thirty-
five men on a job should mean at least five in
every aisle. Never can find one when you—Here
l’eters! Bring a show case to number 57. Move
that screen out first."

Then quickly the voice moved on. “Sorry, Mr.
llaker. That back wall in your booth still looks
like a second-hand variety shop. Move that por-
trait into the center. Mount those two large trays
on each side. There! That's better. Study for
balance, prOportion and artistic effect.”

An exhibits chairman must be an organizer and
an artist. but above all he
must be a diplomat!

Everywhere one sens-
ed a silent, yet vibrant,
urge to hurry—hurry.
You glanced up at the
clock on the balcony. It
was four o'clock, only
three hours to go] The
sporting g0ods dealer was
still arranging golf balls
in little triangle frames.

For the fourth time
little Laura Salisbury was
rearranging her match
folders. They Were on
cards in series from res-
taurants.railroads,steam-
ship lines, summer rc-

1isr. 'mcm

 

Coma) Robbin, rublbhd by the Bold. Socfdy of Nature! Sui-urn

N0 POST FOR HOBBY RIDER$

3 

SO YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A HOBBY SHOW!

sorts, beauty parlors, and drug stores. One
precious lot had come from airplane companies.

Miss Heberlein plunged a testing finger into the
water in the jars which held her snails. The hall
is cold, but not too cold for those queer, spineless
mollusks which she raises front spawn. For years
she has studied their ways and habits and she
knows just which varieties can live compatibly
with her young nephew’s goldfish.

Old Mr. Camehl lovingly holds to the light an
old Venetian glass wine jug and rubs off an
imaginary finger print. The Neighborhood House
is still working on the intricate wiring on its
marionette stage. Feminine friends of the Boys'
Club have come to their rescue at the last minute.
They are industriously stitching away on lace cur-
tains for the workmanlike doll house with which
the boys hope to attract their sisters' attendance
at the club this winter.

\Vill anyone ever be ready, you wonder. \Veary
and anxious you pass the ship model booth. That
huge sailboat overshadows the little clipper ship.
Must tell Mr. Mosher about it, but you can't Find
him. You speak to the old sailor who is still put-
tering over his model of the Morro Castle, which
he has hurried to finish in time for the Fair. It is
made from orange crates that the grocer gave him
and from bits of old wire and nails which he
picked up along the street. He agrees with you
about the misplaced sailboat and awkwardly but
cautiously he maneuvers the offending top-heavy
craft into the background.

You pass the bookbinding booth. There is
kindly Mr. Donnigan with his equally antiahle

.- I
-- v' - _
3;!

i.
iI
I

‘ ‘

5;}.

Ph do by 1.. u

50 YOU’RE GOING TO HAVE A'HOBBY SHOW! 561

wife sitting with folded hands
beside the amateur bindery
which they have made for the
Fair. They are ready. They
have been ready for days and
now they are waiting patiently
to capture the fancy of some
groping mind that restlessly
seeks an outlet for pent-up
creative energies and a release
from pressure either of too
much work or too little.

Years ago Mr. Donnigan suffered from too
much work. He remedied the evil by taking on
still more. iut the new work was play—at least
that is what he calls his bookbinding. He owes his
life to it, he says, and now he wants to pay his
debt. He is glad to come to the Hobby Fair even
if it is the busiest season of the year in his busi—
ness. Perhaps, he says, he can catch another man
who is about to crash against a wall of futility
and turn him back to the-road of peace and
serenity via the bookbinding route.

Then you remember that you have promised to
see Mrs. Howard and persuade her to attach
identifying stickers to every piece of furniture in
the doll house she has made. Patiently you ex-
plain again and again that the insurance company
insists upon an itemized list of every article dis-
played by each exhibitor. And each piece must
carry the exhibitor’s number on a sticker, if it
cannot be numbered otherwise. Mrs. Howard still
does not see how she can put a sticker on the lit-
tle silk coverlid on the miniature bed. You take
time out to show her how easily it can be done.
Satisfied — or exhausted, you scarcely know
which——-she accepts the small gummed labels from
you and resignedly starts to work.

“Mr. Murphy of the News is here, Mrs. Hunt,”
says the guard who has just located you in aisle
four. Heavens! He shouldn’t be here for two
hours. You haven’t yet divided, even mentally,
the dramatic news notes which should be allotted
to each paper. \Vell, first come, first served and
Mr. Murphy is here! You meet him in front of
the Ukrainian booth. He has spied those altar
linens arranged on a miniature altar, surmounted
by glowing brass candlesticks. In his eyes, as you
watch, skepticism born of long experience with
advance publicity prophecies, slowly gives way to
credulity. He darts across to the woodworking
booth. Fourteen different kinds of wood. all in
natural finish, combine in elaborate designs of

"'l quarrel with no man's hobby.I
said Sir Walter Scott to his con-
temporaries, and more than once
does he speak of 'the pleasure of be-
ing allowed to ride one's hobby in
peace and quiet.I That hobby-riding
is no modern sport we do well to re-
member in this day and age. 'I never
pretend to be above having and in-
dulging a Hobby
Madame d'Arblay to her diary in
I768." Anne Carroll Moore.

Horse,' confided

national emblems and heavenly
bodies to form a remarkable
table top.

Suddenly he sees Rose Cur-
ran’s soap carvings. She spent
hours yesterday and today,
trying to rig up a light which
s h i n e s from behind them,
bringing out their delicately
carved outlines until they re-
semble ivories from some royal
cabinet or art gallery. Next to
these are the painted soap models young Jimmy
Hansen has made. They look like the quaint Bre-
ton wood carvings that summer tourists bring
back from France.

Across the aisle Ralph Dodds is still trying to
achieve a western reservation effect with his
vividly startling Indian war bonnets. His mother
is helping him. As a boy, she has told you, Ralph
was fascinated by all Indian lore. \Vhen he re-
belled against a higher education, after his high
school days were over, she wisely encouraged him
to go west. There he lived with the Hopis and
the Pueblos for two summers. He studied their
tribal customs, legends and traditions. He learned
the significance of each part of the native cos—
tume and became skilled in the art of making
them. Now, many years later, he is a salesman
for a wholesale hardware merchant but he still
spends his leisure time making Indian war bon»
nets and accoutrement. He sends to the far
Northwest for the feathers of the white eagle, the
only plumage that will withstand strong bleaching
processes and retain the pliancy so necessary for
these primitive head-dressings.

The veteran reporter looks at you in amaze-
ment. “I didn't know it would be anything like
this. Thought I would just stop in on my way
home to dinner.” You feel a guilty sense of in—
adequacy about the advance publicity. Appar-
ently you have failed to give even the papers an
idea of the magnitude and beauty of your under-_
taking.

“Where is the phone?" and in silent chagrin
you lead Mr. Murphy of the Nate's to the tele-
phone. He sends in a hurry call to the desk for a
photographer. Perhaps you should warn the other
papers of this premature call from the News.
They, too, have been loyal contributors of space
for three months. You loiter hesitantly near the
telephone while Mr. Murphy returns to the still
provokineg dimly lighted hall.

562 $0 YOU’RE GOING TO HAVE A HOBBY SHOW!

It's nearly six o'clock. The guards are sweep-
ing up the last vestiges of litter. If only the
lights could be turned on now before the sched-
uled hour for the pre-view. Strangely, seven
o’clock now seems such a long time to wait. One
extra hour of illumination can’t run up the electric
light bill so very much. But seven o'clock, you
stoically reflect, was the time agreed upon and the
special invitations assured the recipients that they
should be the first to view the spectacle in all its
glory.

It's still an hour to go. Things seem very quiet.
An hour is sixty long minutes, you rationalize a
bit, and guests will probably straggle in anyway.
Just one good, satisfying look around before the
crowds arrive would be heavenly.

Suddenly and opportunely the little dark-haired
dynamic secretary literally flies into your line of
vision, and you know you are not going to wait
another minute for the longed-for glimpse. Fran-
tically you hail her. “Mrs. Block—could we—oh,
wait just a minute—I must ask you—the lights,
could we—" you jumble out the words unintel-
ligibly. But as she scoots around the corner you
realize she is' headed for the custodian’s office,
determination throwing sparks from her tiny
heels. Over her shoulder she shouts back at you.

“You don’t think I’m going to wait either, do
you, to see this show ?” Together, on her return
trip from giving the necessary order, you rush
into the auditorium. You face the main aisle.
There is a blur. Someone shouts, “Lights !” and
a greater achievement than anyone on the com-
mittee had dared to hope for stands brilliantly
revealed before your eyes.

Presently a flashlight bulb lets go in the west
aisle. You rush over to discover the Courier—
Exprcsr photographer inserting a fresh plate in
his camera. He sees you and asks to be directed
to some more good takes. As you lead him to a
niiniattire stage-coach, delicately perfect to the
smallest detail, another flash occurs nearby. Some-
one explains that the Time: photOgrapher is
working.

Good old grapevine] It's on the job again and
your publicity worries are over. The papers, like
all naturally curious human beings, have come
early, they have seen, and they are completely con-
quered. In other words, from that instant the first
annual Buffalo Hobby Fair was officially "on."

Relaxing. finally, you realize that what had
seemed to be eonfusion and chaos had been merely
plans materializing iuto order and completeness.

Ideas and ideals that had motivated the entire pro-
ject were in actual fruition before your eyes. Any
doubts you may have had about the practicality,
the expediency and the soundness of the great
effort were instantly dispelled when you saw the
pride glowing from the face of every single ex-
hibitor. The possibilities of inspiring and stimu-
lating a civic interest in constructive leisure-time
activities seemed limitless when you viewed the
art, the skill and the workmanship displayed in
the exhibition.

That there is everywhere a searching hunger
for “something interesting to do" was bountifully
demonstrated by the milling thousands who came
every day and lingered for hours over each ex-
hibit. That this hunger was immeasurably ap-
peased was evidenced by the exhaustive questions
flung at the information booth, set up for the ex-
press purpose of giving every possible aid to em-
bryonic or potential hobbyists.

That there is a rare bond of fellowship exist-
ing between people of kindred interests has been
proven by the noticeable growth of membership
in every organization that participated in the
Hobby Fair. On every hand one saw concrete
signs of a new born or revived sense of dignity
in labor. Craftsman acknowledged craftsman. The
neophyte in one booth humbly deferred to the
superior skill of the master in the next. In-
stantly a mutual exchange of ideas, suggestions
and knowledge took place.

But more gratifying still was the fact that
among the tired, exhausted committee members,
fatigue, disappointments, discouragements and
petty frictions dissolved into a unifying nothing-
ness. The social worker said. “thank you" to the
merchant. The merchant said, “Be sure to invite
me to serve again next year.” The industrialist
said, “I’ve learned a lot about workmanship." The
educator said, "Teaching is a thrilling job, after
all.” The Junior League member who manned the
information booth during the entire week of the
Fair said, “I’ve learned a lot about peOple and I
like them, too.” And the exhibits chairman said,
“My feet ache horribly, but now next year— ”

So you are going to have a hobby show. \Vell—
why delay?

"Significant words and creative ideas can always
be trusted to make their own way in the world.
Let no one then presume to choose for another
the holbe he shall ride whether for a season or a
lifetiine.”-—Aimc Can-off Moore.

Correlation of Public
and i

Private Agencies
in the

Recreation Field

By
WILLIAM G. ROBINSON

HAT I have to say to you today is not an ar-
raignment of public versus private agen-

cies. There is just as much evidence of
need for the correlation of agencies in the private
field and in the public field as there is between
the two fields. Moreover the whole problem of
relationships between adult education and re-
creation should be worked out in the public
field. In the private field there is certainly com-
petition between agencies for the loyalty of
certain groups, and there is a lack of under-
standing or agreement as to ideals, objectives
and methods. So I believe we can to advantage
think for a large part of the time about cor-
relation in general.

In the Field of recreation the problem of cor-
relation is not one which is concerned with the
present emergency alone. Of all forms of social
work the' one that seems surest of increasing
in importance is that which has to do with
the field of off duty hours. Every indication
points to the increase of these hours for all
elements of our population and to the increas-
ing recognition of their vital relation to case
work, health and delinquency, and to normal
growth and the attainment of a life worth liv-
ing. W'hat the present depression has done is
to- reveal the common ground of all recreation
programs as a necessary supplement to relief,
as a weapon against mental disintegration, and
as a builder of courage and morale. It has made
imperative a mutual understanding among recre-
ation agencies if the most advantage is to he
gained for future service.

 

Someone must worry about problems
of correlationI but not this young

patron of Oklahoma City's parks!

Lack of Understanding Natural

What lack of understanding there is between
the public and private field is perfectly logical
both from the standpoint of human nature and
of social development. It parallels the history
of other fields of social work—health, relief,
even education. Some public provision for re—
creation is found far back in history. The
peasantry had their commons for games and
dances when the nobles had their tournaments
and troubadours. But for a long time it was
the rich who in their homes, their schools, col-
leges and their clubs, found the facilities and
leadership which money could give and leisure
could enjoy. Then came the development by
which those not so wealthy could have some
of these advantages in the semi-public or
privately supported organization with some
membership fee. \Vhen I grew up in \Nilliams-
port, Pa., the only gymnasiums in the town
were at the Turn Verein and the Y. M. C. A.
and the only swimming pool and director of
physical education in the Y. M. C. A. Now the
public schools provide those facilities and that
leadership in \Villiamsport for every boy and
girl, supplemented by summer playgrounds.

There was the stage, too, of providing for the
most needy in the community, we see this in
the sand piles in the Boston church yard, the
playground apparatus at Hull House. As the
advantages of these provisions in the physical,
mental and social life became more and more
apparent, they were demanded for all. They

563

564 CORRELATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AGENCIES

have been secured to a greater or less extent
for the large majority of children in our school
systems and for an ever increasing number in
the playground and recreation systems. Since
the war there has been a steady growth of
similar provisions for the adult in his unem-
ployed hours with the variety of activities
steadily increasing from the physical to include
the multitudinous interests of the arts and
crafts, music, dramatics, social and informative.

The process of transition, I think, is exem-
plified just now more in the camping field than
any other. There have been many camps for
the wealthy boy, some for the boy who could
afford to pay most of the cost, a few for the
children of the poor. As the appreciation of the
value of a return to the ancestral environment
and of education in nature lore and the social
quality of camp life has become more general,
we are hearing a growing chorus of educators
advocating camps as part of school equipment
and an increasing number of cities and states
adding them as part of their recreational facili-
ties. The report of the Hoover Committee on
Social Trends has emphasized this movement
toward increasing public responsibility for
social welfare functions as for instance, “The
general trend is undoubtedly in the direction
of a recognition of the school as society's
chief agency for the care and protection of
children. The definition of public education is
being broadened every year."

Now in such a transition as this there is
bound to be some difficulty in adjustment—
difliculties from the point of view of agency
loyalty, from problems of'personality, lay and
professional. from lack of understanding of ob-
jectises and procedure. It is not easy for a
Y. .\l.C. A. to give up an industrial league Or a
settlement house to turn over a playground;
but it is not easy for a public recreation board
to see why the Y. M. CIA. or the settlement
house should not be glad to turn its money and
attention to other needs not yet sufliciently
demonstrated to warrant public operation.
There is mutual criticism and jealousy as these
problems of transition come to
be worked out in given locali-
ties. In such instances the
workers in the private field are
apt to call the workers in the
public field ignorant and poli-
ticiaus: the latter retort with

Mr. Robinson, who is a district
representative of the National
Recreation Association, present-
ed this paper before the dele-
gates to the Ohio State Welfare
Conference on October I2, 1934

“hot air artists" and “high hat ;” while each ob-
jects to the exaggerated claims of the others.
And there is enough truth in some localities
for all the charges! For the public field all I
can say is that there is a growing number of
cities where professionally trained workers are
carrying on independent of political control.

I shall not enlarge on these differences. I
mentioned them in order to let you know I
realize they are there and to make sure that
this discussion shall not be all in the clouds. I
speak of them, too, in order to assure you that
I think these differences are trivial, local and
transient. There is too much that concerns us
as one field of work to spend our time on what
divides us into public and private or into a
dozen or more agencies.

Facing Facts Together

In the first place I believe we should face to-
gether the fact of transition and meet it to-
gether. \Ve should accept the principle that
when the nation or the community as a whole
is convinced that all of its members need a
certain service, whether it is police, garbage
collection, education or recreation, the econo-
mical and effective way to furnish that service
is through our local, state and national gov-
ernments. As long as we believe in democracy
we must accept that principle. But the principle
is not simple of application. There can be no
definite drawing of lines of demarcation in the
field, conditions vary from city to city.
Nowhere is the leisure time field being covered
by all the existing agencies, public and private
together.

That is the first big broad fact we must unite
in firing back at those groups talking about
duplication, overlapping, etc. These charges
are the result Of our over-claiming of fields,
not of our over-working them. You know the
figures secured on the Cincinnati playgrounds,
that 94 percent of the children attending be-
long to no private organization; the figures
from the \Velfare Council Study of 87,000
Brooklyn boys showing only 13,000 reached by
boys work agencies: the state-
ment of Dr. Sheldon (ilueck
on the study of delinquent,
boys in ltoston t0 the effect
that nine tenths of these boys,
upon careful examination into'
their life histories. were shown

CORRELATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AGENCIES 565

to have spent their leisure time definitely harm—
fully, and three fourths of the group had never
once in their lives been associated with any or-
ganized recreation group, boys club or any
such organization for the wholesome use of
leisure: A recent survey in Roanoke showed
only 20 percent of school age, 30 percent of
age 18 to 24 and 8.6 percent of adults reached
by any leisure time agency and noted that the
services were most meager in the submarginal
areas. None of us need fear being crowded out
of a job in the near future, and this applies to
the field of activities as well as to participants.
The extent of the field of interest to which
boys and girls, youth and adults, will respond
has hardly been explored in most of our
programs.

\Vith this view of. the vastness of the op—
portunity and the wide variation of local situa—
tions, let us tentatively examine some other
possible questions of relation between public
and private agencies. A comparatively recent
survey in Flint stated “private recreation acti-
vities have for some time made claim to two
qualities, namely, that they were experimental
and that they were character building. There
is a diminishing place for private recreation
activities, just as activities. Progressively
public taxes and cooperative finance may be
expected to furnish more and more of this
typef’

This is one way of expressing the .idea that
the large group activities, particularly the

 

Courtesy Dallas, Texas, Park Department

physical, are now too widespread in their de-
mand for facilities and leadership to be oper-
ated by any one but the government. The
minimum that can be expected of a public re-
creation organization is the place for, and
proper conduct of athletics, sports, large group
games and facilities for golf, skating, swim-
ming, picnicking and similar activities. The
maximum of a community recreation program
is summed up by Eugene T. Lies in his The N ew
Leisure Challenges the Schools as follows:

“It should be the aim to serve the peeple of all ages
——children, youth and adults. The service should run
throughout the year, not during the summer or some
other season only. Many doors should be opened
leading to self fulfilment through physical, dramatic,
musical, art, handcraft, social, nature and literary
activities. Much effort should be made to ascertain the
varied desires of people as to the types of things they
deeply long to engage in rather than setting before
everybody a cut and dried program which they can
take or leave. Self participation should be greatly
stressed as over against sitting and watching the other
fellow do his stuff, although appreciation and enjoy-
ment of things done by others is not to be ruled out
of the picture. The program should have an appeal to
individuals and groups, to whole neighborhoods and
the whole community itself for occasional affairs like
pageants, May Days, Holidays Celebration, etc. The
program should comprehend special advisory service
to homes in reference to play and recreation in families
and to charitable institutions, parent teacher, fraternal
and civic organizations in the furnishing of ideas, pro-
grams and possibly at times also leaders.”

Does this leave anything for the private
agency? In the first place there are few places
where Mr. Lies’ pro-
gram approached real-
ization. In all but the
physical held, generally
speaking, the com-—
munity has not been
convinced of the pos—
sibilities of the recrea-
tion program. In many
communities the priv-
ate agencies have the
fields of music, drama,
arts and crafts as fields

What all agencies, whether
public or private, have in
common—the happiness and
welfare of American youth

566 CORRELATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AGENCIES

for demonstration and experimentation. Even
where the public department has developed
such fields there will always be the need for
the smaller, more highly skilled or specialized
group to which the public agency cannot afford
to give the leadership. In addition there will
always be the groups drawn together by mutual
ties of religion, social status, racial background
or tradition, f0r whom the public program
open to everyone, will afford neither the at-
mosphere nor the inspiration they demand.
The whole field of individual adjustment or
case work in recreation is open and almost
unexplored, as well as that of the social adjust-
ment of the newcomers to the city and the
provision of social and recreation activities fo_r
boys and girls together un-
der non-commercial auspices.

The Roanoke study re-
commended to the private
agencies the finding and
training of leaders for them-

of public agencies to an ap-
preciation of and the publie
to a support of trained lead-
ership and the discovery and
use of unused facilities and
services. A tentative distinc—
tion between public and
private agencies along these
lines is not an admission of
fewer qualities of leadership or value in the
public field, but a recognition of lack of resour-
ces in general for the individual, small group
and experimental field.

Such general ideas as to relative fields are
recognized to a considerable extent. The first
plank of a statement by the National Council

of Y. M. C. A’s on what can Y. M. C. A. direc-

tors do about the New Leisure Time says:
"They can put whatever influence they exercise on
the side of adequate public provision of educational
and recreational facilities. The kind of society toward
which we should work is one that would do this as
a matter of course. Influence is also needed now to
see that deveIOping public enterprises are led and
supervised by competent. socially-minded persons.

"They can exercise influence in their own com-
munities In the direction of a reconstructed school
education and a prOgram of adult education that helps
people to live richly and creatively, both at work and
In free time.

"They can join with other societies and organized

"The problem of the recreational use
of leisure time is so serious and so
huge that we cannot hope to meet it
unless private and public agencies
pool their thinking, studying and plan-
selvcs and the stimulation ning. in communities where this is
being done through leisure-time and
recreation councils or subcommittees
of the councils of social agencies and
being done with a spirit of selfless
service, the individual organization
gains in strength, and the results are go to character building
greater than the sum total of the
agencies c00perating."—J. W. Faust
in The Womans Press.

 

groups in discovering the best means of develop-
ing standards as to the significance and use of leisure."

Mr. Howard Braucher adds in his bulletin to Na-
tional Recreation Association members the following:

“The recreation movement everywhere can receive
great help if the private agencies will throw their
influence squarely for helping to keep polities out of
the governmental recreation programs and for trying
to secure the highest possible standards in the muni-
eial tax-supported program."

Common Problems

Recognizing these general principles of
distinction, let us return to the vastly greater
and more important mass of common problems
—those of cooperation—a word which includes,
but is much more then, correlation.

In the first place we need
to join in educating the pub-
lic to the support of recrea-
tion and not playgrounds or
Girl Scouts or Christ Church
Mission. \Ve stand or fall
together. The same taxpayer
who objects to having any
public funds spent for play-
grounds objects to having
any community fund money

agencies.

Jackson, Michigan closed
its Y. “I. C. A. two years
ago, dismissed its Girl Scout
secretary the same year, closed its summer
playgrounds and cut its library budget in half.
It was lack of appreciation of the whole field,
not of any agency. Kalamazoo a city of about
the same size has every one of its agencies not
only going but growing with more playgrounds
last year than ever before and wider apprecia-
tion of its leisure time agencies. In this city
representatives of the recreation agencies, pub-
lic and private, including two colleges, have
been meeting for three years as members of a
recreation council, coming to an understanding
of each others program, conducting a survey
of conditions and presenting the situation to
the community. They did this in an unusual
way by conducting a trial of their city on
charges of neglect brought by the youth of
Kalamazoo. The trial was held in the court
room; a prominent clergyman acted as judge,
and those who conducted the survey were the
main witnesses. Many citizens were given

CORRELATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AGENCIES 567

parts in the trial and the attendance was large.
The city was found guilty on definite points
and plans for improvements proposed.

This is one example of how the lack of un-
derstanding as to philosophy, program and
objectives is being cleared up between agencies
in many cities under group work councils,
character building councils or Education—Recre-
ation Councils.

Cooperation is not being talked about only.
It is being practiced. In the national field an
Education-Recreation Council including some
twenty organizations meets regularly in New
York City. In a number of instances all the
national agencies in the leisure time field have
pooled their services to a city for an experi-
mental period of time. Mr. Lies of the National
Recreation Association has represented them
all at Erie and at the Oranges; Mr. R. K.
Atkinson of the Boys Clubs at certain other
cities.

In many cities there are instances of mutual
helpfulness. The work of the Los Angeles
Councils in connection with juvenile delin—
quency have been described. At the National
Recreation Congress I heard described an ex-
periment in a congested district of Chicago
where a study of conditions made by the Uni-
versity had startled existing groups into united
action and where a group program of the
churches, parks, schools and private agencies,
starting with athletics, had grown to meet the
needs of varied groups and activities. Among
results are standard record keeping, altered
procedures, new facilities and an adjustment
and cooperation brought about by the specific
job to be done.

In Hartford all services of recreation agen-
cies in one section of the city is being directed
through the channel of one director of a settle-
ment house.

In Wheeling the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W.
C. A. turned their swimming pools over to the
ReCreation Department for the use of children
from the playgrounds during the summer
mornings. In Flint the four private agencies
conducting summer camps issued a joint an-
nouncement. In Dayton the Recreation Council
published a directory of centers of activity with
a spot map showing where each was located.

Cleveland furnishes an outstanding example
of cooperation between a public and a private
agency as well as of the method of transition

in the relationship between Hiram House and
the Division of Playgrounds and School
Centers of the Board of Education. The latter
has a budget providing for an evening director
and for activities for children beyond school
age. Hiram House from its budget supple-
ments this enough to provide a salary for a
full-time, year«round director, who lives in the
neighborhood, has headquarters in the school
building and conducts a continuous year—round
program. The settlement house conducts
group activities after school hours for the
school age groups which are continued by the
Board of Education as the groups become
eligible for the adult center activities.

After these examples, need I tabulate the
possibilities of cooperation and correlation! Let
me read again from Mr. Lies, this time regard-
ing the functions of a Leisure Time Division

of a Council of Social Agencies.

“Functions—In general the Division should exist for
cooperative thinking, cooperative planning, cooperative
action. Through close contacts in general and sub—
group meetings, the members would become better
acquainted with each other's fields and methods of
work, with the problems common to all as well as the
individual problems of the different agencies. The
group would try to see the leisure time situation of
the community as a whole also. It would make special
studies through committees on important subjects
arising from time to time.

“During my study of the leisure time situation in
Reading, Pa., early in the year I culled from the
minutes of the meeting of the Leisure Time Division
of the Community Chest and its boys’ and girls’ work
committees the following important subjects which
had been discussed:

1. Distinctive work and provinces of the various

agencies.

2. Unfilled leisure time needs of the community.

3. Recreation for problem boys and girls.

4. Neighborhood recreation organization.

5. Qualities of effective recreation leadership.

6. Summer camp problems, including possibility of
establishment of a municipal camp and joint use
of a summer camp by Y. W. C. A. and Girl Scouts.

7. Provision of Leisure Time opportunities for unem—
ployed youth and adults.

8. Home play.

9. Church recreation.

10. Leisure Time Leaders’ training courses.

11. Methods of appeal by different agencies for enlist-
ing participation.

12. Creation of connecting links between prospective
high school graduates and community leisure
time opportunities.

13. Correlation of work of leisure time agencies with
home, school and church.

(Continued on page 594)

“Teach a Man to Live"

direct our educational ob-

jective.along the line of
training richer emotions in
life. After aft, I think it is
more important to teach a man
to fire than it is to teach him
to make a living. I think it is
more important to enrich his emotional life than
it is to enable him to make a living under the
routine occupations of the day. For after all the
making of a living is only a means to an end, the
enlargement of the abundant life.

I think all sociologists and anthropologists are
in agreement that the real destiny of a democracy
and of a people and of a civilization is more to be
determined by the emotional life of its people
than it is by its political dogma and its constitu-
tional form. And why is that true? Because
about ninety-live per cent of our behavior is dic-
tated by emotion and about five per cent by in-
tellectual judgment.

Yet in our school program ninety-nine per cent
of our effort is consecrated to the so-called mind
and only one per cent for a little art appreciation,
or something to try to enrich the joy of living.
And after all if I understand what patriotism is,
if I understand the dynamic forces of human life,
if I understand what is the basis of a rich culture
of a great people, its spiritual plane, it is its
capacity for emotional appreciation of the in-
tangible things of life, it is the love of beauty, the
love of romance, of loyalty, of patriotism; it is
the great emotional factor that makes a people
what they are, or dwarfs them into human
pygmies, if such be their blighted destiny.

I think the time has come when education must
accept as one of its fundamental objectives the
taking of the fine splendid emotional capacity of
youth. guiding them along the lines of cultural
suggestion, enriching their emotional life, teaching
them the importance of subjecting it to the self-
imposed restraints of artistry, but at the same time
fanning it until it becomes a great passion of pa-
triotism, of culture, of love of the spiritual values
of life. That can be done. But it requires a new
objective, a new technique and a new approach.

563

I WISH we might begin to

ment" by

Extracts from an address "Trends
in the Reorganization of Govern-
Arnold Bennett Hal-l,
Director of Brooltings Institute in
Washington, at the Citizens' Con-
ference on School Recovery in
Pennsylvania, October IO-l I, I934

And when our people are
motivated by such a point of
view, by a real love of great
spiritual value, by a real desire
to see them survive in the life
of America, I don't think we
need to worry so much then
about our people being willing
to drive out the Army of Occupation; we need
not worry about our people being willing, then, to
make the adjustment in our government that is
necessary, if the American people are to have a
fuller and a more abundant life.

“Out of a machine age has come leisure, and
leisure to a greater or less degree we shall always
have, as a boon and as a problem. And so now as
a nation we are trying to develop a philosophy
toward leisure, we are trying to create programs
for use in leisure time; out of it is coming a de-
mand for leaders of leisure-time activities, a
demand for play space. An impetus has been
given to the manufacture of all kinds of equip-
ment for use in leisure-time activities. As a na-
tion we are becoming leisure-conscious and as
such we shall surely be exploited. Are we going
to allow our leisure time to be exploited and cap-
italized by those who -are self-seeking? Are we
as a nation going to depend upon commercial
amusements and again develop spectatoritis?

“It has been said that ‘leisure should not be
used to prepare us for harder work but for the
average man it should be the time in which he
really lives. In an hour of leisure we pass from
necessity to desirel’ It is in this leisure time that
we should have the opportunity to do the things
which we desire to do; time in which to express
ourselves, time in which to do creative work, time
in which to re-create, in which to play, to practice
skills and perfect skills, time in which to make
friends, time in which to read and reflect, and
time in which to be just lazy.”——Agne3 R. Way-
nian in The Journa! of Health and Physical Edu-

cation, January, 1935.

On the Play Streets of New York

ISUALIZE a_street in the congested area of one
V of America’s large cities with tenement

houses lining both sides. In these houses are
children and adults who go no further than their
own'doorsteps or beyond -the limits of the street
on which they live for their recreation. If they
are to have a play program it must in many in-
stances be brought to their doorsteps.

The objectives of a play street program go far
beyond the mere provision of safe play for the
children of congested areas. There is the develop-
ment of latent talents along the lines of crafts,
music and drama; of skills and abilities through
games and sports. There is, too, the provision of
activities which will have a valuable socializing
effect and will help in building up community
spirit. And there is the creation of educational in-
terests through visits to libraries, talk on foreign
countries and their craft activities, and the making
of objects to exemplify the countries the children
have been told about.

Organization
Leadership

The most important consideration in a play
street program is leadership. The supervisor in
charge must have an outstanding personality, as
well as training and experience in recreation. The
assistant supervisors must

of people participating in the program. Although
the setup is elastic, no more than one worker
should be off the street at any one time. For a
project of this size a secretary, two clerks, a time-
keeper and a doctor are desirable.

It is advisable at the beginning to have a two
day institute for the workers. Speakers may be
invited who are leaders in the recreation field.

Community Contacts

It is essential at the beginning to make con-
tacts with all clubs, social agencies, churches, civic
organizations, public libraries and similar groups
and to obtain their good-will if the program is to
succeed. Such cooperation is a necessity.

Choice and Layout of Streets

A number of factors enter into the considera-
tion of choice of play streets. Among these are
such physical considerations as minimum number
of business arrangements; the smoothness of
pavements, which should be level if. possible;
whether there are walls convenient for handball,
and whether there is an adjacent school without a
playground.-- Among the social considerations are -
the density of population of the area; whether it
is a section having no other play or recreational
facilities, or a section where criminal or delin-

quency tendencies exist.
The following is a sam-

also have had training and
experience, a pleasing per—
sonality and an interest in
children. Where possible
it is an advantage to have
leaders who are versatile
in all types of recreation
to specialize in some given
field. Each leader should
have a fundamental knowl-
edge of first aid.

For a program involv-
ing twelve play streets it
is desirable to have five as-
sistant supervisors and ap-
proximately three to five
workers on a street, de-
pending upon the number

The summer ot I934 saw inaugurated in New
York City a twenty week program of super-
vised street play. Twelve streets in densely
populated districts were set aside for the ex-
periment which was carried on by the Recrea-
tion Department, Works Division' Department
of Public Welfare, in cOOperation with the
East Harlem Council of Social Agencies and
in conjunction with the Crime Prevention
Bureau. Out of the project has come much
valuable information on methods of procedure
and technique. This material has been made
available in a mimeographed I'F’lay Street
Manual" prepared by four assistant super-
visors ot the Recreation Department—Edward
Norton. Walter ThurberI Charles Ward and
Carl Schmitt. It is through their courtesy that
we are presenting extracts from the Manual'
which represents a real contribution to a phase
of recreation on which so little practical
material has been thus far available.

ple of a survey of a typi-
cal play street:
Pavements in fair con—
dition; few business es-
tablishments; no commer-
cial traffic; no other redre—
ational facilities; few
walls; good play center.

In making a survey of
the street every opportun-
ity should be seized to
make contacts with the
parents and the children
on the chosen street. Their
attitudes and response will
have much to do with the
success or failure of the
plan.

569

570 ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEW YORK

'3.
p:
.9
.3.

 

DIAGRAM OF PLAY STREET

After the street has been chosen there are still
problems to be met.

Traffic. Where possible the best solution is to
rope off the area using several older boys, who
wear “AAA.” bands on their arms, to inquire of
incoming vehicles whether they have business on
the street. If the answer is negative the boys
should request them not to enter the street.

Racial Differences. The problem of racial dif-‘
ferences nmst be handled tactfully. Many of our
streets have Negro, Porto Rican, Italian and jew-
ish residents. With good leaders little difiic111ty is
encountered with this problem.

Religion. If no differentiation is made this con-
dition is solved quite easily.

Opposition from Proper’ry Owners. It is advis-
able to have a conference with the people inter-
ested. explaining to them that cooperation will
tend to lessen damage done by children when the
street is properly supervised.

Marking Ofi Streets. Each street should be
marked off for equipment games in accordance
with the materials on hand. An ideal street setup
includes two box ball courts. two paddle tennis
courts. one volley ball court. two shuflle board
courts and five ring games. These courts should
be marl-ted off with white asphalt paint.

Equipmeni and Supplies. The equipment listed
in the following paragraphs should be adequate
for approximately twelve streets. and if well taken
care of should suffice for a six months' prOgram.
Some of the supplies. such as bean bag and ring-
o-let boards, may be made by the craft depart-

ment. If this is done the materials required—and
it should be possible to secure a donation of lum-
ber—are as follows:

2450 ft. Shiplock 1080 ft. 8" x 1%”

655 ft. 2" x4” 256 ea. 3" discs
1000 ft. 1" x2” 64 ea. Broom handles
130 ea. 2" x 2" Angle irons

200 ea. Lag screws
10 lbs. Assorted nails (6 p. to 16 p.)
S bxs. 2” Wood screws Flanges 2" in diameter

Tin (galvanized iron) as 3/2”" \Vater pipe
mueh as possible

Toial Amouni of Game Equipmeni for
Twelve Play Sireeis

Mater-fa! Amount
Rubber balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 gross

Handballs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 dozen

Baseballs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 “

Soft indoor baseballs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16 "

Basketballs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 "

Volley balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 "

Beanbags . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. 32 "

Soccer balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16 eaeh

Baseball bats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6 dozen

Indoor baseball bats  . . . . . . . .. 6 "

Shinny stieks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 gross

Broomstieks (for stiekball) . . . . . . .. 12 dozen

Checkers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 gross (sets)

Jacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 " "

Marbles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4 " "

Rope (3 strand) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ..800 yards

Crayon . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .. 14 dozen (boxes)

Chalk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l6 " "

Paddles (paddle tennis) . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 dozen

l’ingpong tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24 eaeh

l’ingpong racquets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 gross

l’ingpong balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 "

Shulllelmards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 sets

Checkerlmrds . . . . . . . . .  1.? dozen (sets)

Qnoits  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .. 6 “ “

Beanbag boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 "

Swatters . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  6 "

llockey  . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . .. 12 boxes

Ring-o-let boards and rings . . . . . . . .. 12 sets

Bulletin boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 each

Tennis nets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24

ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEW YORK 571

Office Equipment. Aside from the general oliice
equipment such as typewriters, filing cabinets and

stationery supplies, it is well to have the follow-
ing articles:

A file of copies of all bulletins, which should be
dated

A bulletin board in the office subdivided for
special oliice announcements and each supervis-
or’s type of activity '

A scrap book of all publicity clippings
An oliice question or suggestion box. and a mail

TIME MONDAY TUESDAY

2 :00 Story-telling Singing games

Quoit games Jrs_.
Jr. and Inter. . Stories
Quotts—older boys

boys and girls
Quoits—older boys

3:00 Handicraft Jrs. Ditto
Individual and
Team games
Older boys games
and girls
Sidewalk games
Inter.

Same as Thursday
Volley ball

Organize teams
Older boys —Jrs. girls

4 :00 Con test

Inter. and Ir.
Handicraft

Jumping ROpe
Center—girls
Simple folk dances

Volley ball

Skits, song, stunts
Team games

—Jr. girls
Team games

WEDNESDAY
Same as Thursday
—new material
Library period

Same as Thursday
-—new games Jrs.
New sidewalk —girls
Charades, stunts games
Dram. games Inter.

box for each supervisor so that notices may be left
for him when he is away from the office.

The Program

A well rounded program of street play should
include such activities as:

Dramatics Exhibitions
Blodk parties Hikes and field trips
Special events Athletic games

Special activities Tournaments
Arts and crafts Low organized games
Clubs Swimming and showers

The following program was found successful
on the New York play streets:

THURSDAY SATURDAY
Songs—singing Outing for
Jrs.—-games Mothers

Continue other
groups
Quoits
Stunts, skits
older boys
Handicraft Trips in Organized
groups to park program on
Team and circle (Street play) street

Relays—older
girls
Jumping rope Final jumping
contest—girls rope contest
Handicraft— Games, Jrs. and
nlder boys Inter. boys
Low organized Volley ball
games—Jrs. between teams
—girls

Volley ball

wwmwww_

Boys League
Handicraft
older girls
Folk dancing _

Boys League
games
Handicraft—
older girls

Practice for any
special dramatic
activity that may
have been devised

5:00 Boys team games Same as
League Monday
Handicraft
older girls
Low organized
games—Jrs.
Wall ball
Inter. boys
6:00
7:00 Folk dancing Stunts,
followed by tumbling. etc.
group game's Jrs. and Inter.
and story-telling
8:00 W'all ball, older Relays and team

boys and others
Singing
Mothers sewing
on costumes

boysJ and others
Mothers’ sewing

Each street should organize a mothers’, fathers’,
young men's, young women’s, boys’ and girls’
clubs. These organizations will be very helpful in
carrying out the activities of the program.

Some Administrative Hints

The supervisor and his assistants should have
one meeting a week—more if necessary—to de—
cide upon policies and advance programs. One
important feature of these meetings is to make
plans for a recreation week to be held every three
months. At this time it will be well to “spotlight”
the activities of the program with competitive
events such as a track meet or swimming meet for
the children from all the play streets. At least

Work from singing

Games——
children groups

Folk dancing—
games for older adults.
Preparation of
Saturday night
program

 

Folk dancing during week

games to dances Work from singing

games to dances

Kiddie Twilight Folk dancing
Karnival concert and Story-telling
Social dance °

Neighborhood Social dance Impromptu
chorus dramatics
charades

short skits

once a week a meeting of all leaders should take

place when problems are discussed and new games
taught.

Dated daily bulletins should be issued with
notices of coming events for each street. The
leaders should be asked to keep a notebook con-
taining all notices of material given them during
the summer. A combined weekly report of the
leaders on each street should give the highlights
of their daily activities rather than mere statis—
tics. From these reports assistant supervisors
write a weekly report, including their observa-
tions. The supervisor combines all these reports,
including observations from his visits. Finally a

5?? ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEH" YORK

monthly report should be written from the com-
bined data of the supervisor and his assistants.
\\'hcrevcr possible an individual experienced in
dealing with newspapers should be recruited to
help in this project. Only human interest stories

approved by the supervisors should be offered to
the papers.

Activities

Games and Athletics

Only such athletic tournaments should be con-
ducted as can be confined to the street itself with-
out endangering windows and property. A rules
committee consisting of the athletic supervisor
and a number of the workers should be formed to
handle all rules, questions and protests.

The elimination tournament is most successful
in many cases as it prevents tournaments from
becoming too long-drawn out. The round robin
tournament or league system may be used in some
games such as box ball, soccer and touch football.
For a sport in which there is a great deal of inter-
est tournaments can be run over a period of
months. The games which adapt themselves well
to tournaments include paddle tennis, box ball,
punch ball. soccer, touch football, handball, volley
ball, quoits, shufllcboard, marbles and jacks.

Before a tournament is set up the game should
be practiced so that the participants will know it
well and their interest will be sustained. The rules
of all tournaments should be simplified as far as
possible. Tournament classifications should in-
clude all groups interested. It is far better to run
short tournaments to include many classifications
than long-drawn out tournaments which will in-
clude very few. Age divisions should be very
definite to avoid conflicts. The time and place of
all games should be stated on the schedules and
the supervisors must be made responsible for hav-
ing all games played off.

Only tournaments requiring a
small amount of equipment or

may be conducted. Popular events include dashes,
relays, jumps, obstacle races, baseball throws, tug
of war, and novelty races.

The athletic leaders should be on the alert for
new games, and they thmeselves should partici-
pate in the games as little as possible, getting the
game well started and turning it over to a respon-
sible older boy or girl.

I.ow organized games should be made an im-
portant part of the program as they include large
numbers of children and all ages and groups.

If a swimming pool is available, it is highly dc-
sirablc to make water sports a part of the pro-
gram. If at all possible street showers should be
provided as they are both popular and beneficial
and tend to bring children to the street.

The Crafts Program

Arts and crafts should be an integral part of
the program. They are valuable not only in de-
veloping latent talent and creating interest in hob-
bies, but in helping to stress other activities, in aid-
ing in the making of costumes, street decorations,
stage settings and properties, rhythmic band in-
struments, and in the formation of clubs. Hand-
craft activities providc material for exhibits and
Special days. Crafts clubs may be made responsi-
ble for bulletin boards and athletic awards and
prizes.

Care should be taken in the selection of pro-
jects. Paper mosaic work, for example, is im-
practicable as the tiny paper punchings are liable to
blow away. Shellac must be thinned considerably
before application in the open air. There should
be a craft department in charge of the program
with a competent all round arts and crafts man
in charge. One of the responsibilities of this
specialist should be to train the street play leader
through craft lectures and through the laboratory
and project methods which will provide instruc-

tion once a week in projects to be
given the children the following

equipment on hand should be at-
tempted, for the acquisition and
care of equipment are one of the
greatest problems of street play.
Although each leader is responsi-
ble for the equipment he uses, it
is important to have one indi-
vidual responsible for storing it
each night.

Athletic meets with a wide va-
riety of events and novelty races

It has not been possible in this
article, based on the "Play
Street Manual," to go into great
detail regarding the program
and activities. We have at-
tem ted, however, to give our
rea ers as comprehensive a
resumti as possible in the space
available. It is suggested that
anyone wishing further informa-

tion communicate with Edward
Norton, 5l7 East Ninth Street,
Brooltlyn, New Yorlz.

week.

Among the projects which are
appropriate for the street play
program are the following:

Various kinds of sewing and
needlework ; bead pendants, rings.
loom made bracelets; paper
streamer howls: crocheted crepe
paper objects; artificial flowers:
basketry projects; sponge rubber
projects; airt stone work: tin can

 

ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEW YORK 573

flowers; stippled tin pro-
jects; appollometal ash-
trays ; paper bead necklaces ;
crayonexing; cartooning,
drawing and painting; dec-
orated vases; square knot
projects; mantlepiece boat
and airplane models; berry
box furniture; whittled
wood objects; doll making;
oil cloth projects; three-ply
veneer carving; soap sculpi
'turing ; small clothespin and
spool novelties; miscellan-
eous wood projects.

Materials. To conduct the
crafts program suggested
the following materials are
necessary:

A large supply of cotton,
silk and woolen remnants,
as well as some muslin; as—-
sorted beads and seed beads;
picture frame \vire; paper
streamers; paste, glue and rub-
ber cement; shellac and alcohol; sponge rubber:
art stone and natural trimmings; crepe paper of
all colors; a large supply of %” and %” white
wood, three-ply veneer, and balsa wood rippings;
appollometal sheets; wall paper; paints, crayons
and newsprints; Belfast cord; oilcloth. soap; as.-
sorted lacquers, brushes, etc.

The children themselves can provide such mis-
cellaneous materials as old discarded necklaces,
needle and thread, clothespins, cardboard, meat
skewers. hairpins, colored magazine pages and
string.

The handcraft instructors should have their
own kits. The boys’ worker, for example, will
want a pair of tin snips. scissors, several small
pickle jars with tops, several cigar boxes, a few
large paper bags, a good jack-knife, a ruler, pen—
cils, a supply of cardboard and other materials he
feels are necesSary. For the girls’ handcraft pro-
gram the leader will require scissors, several small
pickle jars with tops, a number of cigar boxes,
paper bags, a ruler, pencils, needles and thread,
and similar supplies.

Hints for Conducting the Program. The play
leaders must use their ingenuity in finding places
for the craft program. If a vacant store is avail-
able it is ideal for the purpose. Front porches

 

may be used or if chairs
and two tables are available
the work may go on on the
sidewalk!

The best way for a leader
to start his work is to ar-
range his craft layout on
the street with a few fin-
ished articles in front of
him and then begin work-
ing. The children will soon
gather around and start ask-
ing questions. The rest is
easy. The instructor should
make inquiries among the
children about the things
they have made and would
like to make. A crafts club
may soon be formed.

It is well to carry on all
arts and crafts clubs during

Shuffleboard isagame which lends the heat of the day at
itself readily to tournament uses

periods of not more than an
hour and a half each and with
groups not exceeding twelve or
fifteen children. End a period at the height of
enthusiasm and endeavor with the suggestions of
the leader to “stop and play a game now.”

The children should be allowed to keep one of
every two articles they make, one marked with the
child's name and play street being turned in to
the crafts department for exhibition purposes or
other use. The finished articles should be col-
lected at the same time each week. “hen the
articles have served their purpose as exhibits they
may be donated to the children’s wards of nearby
hospitals, to day nurseries, orphan homes and
shut-ins. '

The leader should be on the lookout for excep-
tional talent and should report “discoveries” to
the head of his department. He will want in many
instances to arrange for the further training of
children with unusual skill.

A method should be devised for having equip-
ment and material delivered to the instructors once
a week. They will be delivered at the same time
the finished projects are collected. If the distance
from the central office is not too great the in-
structors may call for their own material. A place
should be arranged beforehand for the storing of
raw materials and finished objects. These may be
stored either according to classification or play
streets.

574 ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEIV YORK

H ikt's and Field Trips

Occasional outings are a desirable part of the
program but to be fully appreciated they should
be limited. One trip a week is sufficient. Trips may
be. taken to museums, parks, bathing beaches.
newspaper and other industrial plants, and to
police headquarters.

There should be an adult leader for every hf-
teen children. Enlist adult residents of the street
to help. Tell the children beforehand where they
are going and what the object of the trip is. This
helps create interest. Field trips may be made by
bus, trolley car, train. subway or auto. The great
difliculty lies in securing free transportation. It
has been found that although free bus transporta-
tion is rare in the
summer season,
railway transit
lines such as the
trolley and sub-
way are very Iib-
eral in granting
free rides.

Play Street C tubs

Play street
clubs are very
important be-
cause they help
to give each child
at least one ma-
jor interest in .
street play. Among the clubs which may be or-
ganized are general boys' clubs and girls' clubs,
crochet clubs, stamp clubs and postmark clubs.
On the New York play streets night “Owl” clubs
were organized consisting of boys who helped the
leaders rope off streets, put equipment away and
do other odd jobs. Corresponding clubs for girls
were known as “busy bees.‘ An interesting
hohhy club was one called the “Headline Hunt-
ers." 'The children made a scrap book of half
sheets of newspapers laced together with shoe-
strings in which club members pasted in chrono-
logical order the most important headlines of each
day's news. This eventually resulted in a com-
plete record of current events in short concise
phrases. It proved of genuine educational value

to the children.

Dramatirs

The drantatics program requires a supervisor
in direct charge of a worker from each street
\\ hose duties include the provision of suitable ma-

 

terial for the street play leaders. the securing of
talent for special presentations, and the coaching
and supertising of productions arranged for
special occasions.

Pantomime, story-telling, dramatic stunts and
dancing may be introduced into the program, all
carried on informally in front of an adjacent
school or church. On rainy days it may be pos-
sible to secure‘a room in the headquarters of a
local social organization or in an empty store.

A portable or temporary stage is essential.
Sometimes the front of an institution offers a
natural stage requiring only settings. \\'here this
is not available it may be possible to secure a truck
letting the sides down.

The most pop-
ular forms of
Special entertain-
ment have prov—
ed to be movies,
pantomime. pup-
pet shows, plays
presented by the
children them-
selves, magi-
cians. acrobats
and clowns.

Music

I n f o r m a I
group singing us-
ing familiar old
time favorites, popular songs and school songs
may be very successful under a good leader. If
the leader starts a song the children will readily
follow. Unfamiliar songs will not usually be so
successful. If a capable harmonica instructor is
available he may be put on schedule in the various
streets and clubs may be organized.

Dancing

Simple dances such as the Irish jig and Dutch
dances are usually picked up quickly. In this ac-
tivity. as in singing, it is well to adhere to the
familiar. Anything requiring more than the ele-
unntary steps will be unsuccessful in the street
play program.

Block Parties

lilock parties are valuable in promoting com-
munity spirit. in bringing adults into the program
and in giving publicity to the street play project.
Such parties should not be given, however, until
the program has been running long enough to win
the cunlidence and cooperation of the residents.

ON THE PLAY STREETS OF NEW YORK ' 575

Where there are rival factions or organizations in
a street it is inadvisable to attempt block parties.

Plans for a party should be made at least three
weeks ahead of time by a local committee with
subcommittees, the supervisors serving only in an
advisory capacity. Necessary arrangements in-
clude securing permission from the police depart-
ment to close off the street, the roping off of suf—
ficient space for dancing, the securing of a band,
and the mimeographing of a program to be given
adults. Local residents should be called upon with
a request to hang out flags and appropriate decora-
tions. An exhibit of the craft work of the chil-
dren may be displayed in local store windows.

Equipment for block parties consists of a stage,
microphone, rope, lights, decorations and a piano.

The following general plan for a block party
has been found successful:

1 to 5 P. M.——-Children’s games, tournaments, contests.
(A special event may 'be included such as kite flying
contests.) Awards and prizes.

8 to 8:15—Costume parade. Children parade in costumes
made by themselves or by craft department.

8:20 to 9:20—Entertainmentmprepared by the children
on block. A good professional may be included, but
should not play too large a part in the program.

9:20 to 11—Dancing on the street.

The financing of block parties is always a prob—
lem. Methods suggested for raising funds include
package parties, the solicitation of local people,

community club dues, sales, etc. It is essential
that none of the employed workers take an active
part in raising funds. merely serving in an ad-
visory capacity.

Special Activities and Events

One period each day, preferably during the hot
period, should be devoted to story-telling. Chil-
dren like to retail stories they have heard, and this
should be encouraged. A library period each week
may be arranged for at the nearest branch library
where the children may be taken in a group. Many
libraries have a special staff for handling the chil-
dren’s program.

Special events which have proved successful in-
clude wheel day, doll day, pet shows, hobby shows,
kite days and stunt nights. Club or group parties
may be held in the house or yard of one of the
residents. '

Exhibitions

Exhibitions of craft work are important for the
play street program. As has been suggested, they
may be made an attractive adjunct to a block
party. In addition, there may be general, grand
exhibitions competitive in nature, street exhibits
—occasional short time exhibits exclusively of the
craft club on a play street—and a permanent ex-
hibit at headquarters.

DIAGRAM OF BLOCK PARTY IN OPERATION

 

D—Ropes
F—Lamp-Post
B—Microphone
C—Loud-Spealter

A—Raised Platform for Music
G—RoPed Off Section For Dancing
E—Where Street Is Roped Off

K—Area and Lanes For Races

HhFloodlights

Taking Play lnto the Highways and Byways

By ELIZABETH HINES HANLEY

.ssT SUMMER the Philadel-
L phia Playground and
Recreation Association
literally went out into the
streets and byways to give
everyone, old as well as
young, a chance to play. This
was done by opening up
twenty street playgrounds,
four vacant lots, and one day
camp in areas where they
would do the most good. In addition, the usual
three standard playgrounds were operated. The
necessary personnel for all these play places was
obtained through the IAV D, which supplied
twenty-four workers under the leadership of four
regularly employed playground supervisors.

It would be hard to say which of all these types
was the most worth while, but without doubt the
street playgrounds were the most interesting and
exciting. This was because the entire neighbor-
hood was in one way or another actively con-
nected with the project, either as participants in

the program, as helpers and leaders, or as pro-
viders of materials and moral backing.

The workers assigned to these playgrounds
found them mnch more "thrilling" than the con-
ventional ones and gave their main reasons for
their preference as "the opportunity for all ages
to participate; protection as well as recreation for
the children by keeping them out of the street
dangers and mischief, and a more definite spirit
of cooperation and interdependence between par-
cnts, children and leaders."

The director of one of these playgrounds ex-
presses this opinion very clearly in his final report.
llc says: “In my opinion, this work is without
parallel. It creates a feeling of friendship and
good-will in the neighborhood, for all unite in a
common canse- ~namely, the enjoyment of the
children." Another director says: "There is no
doubt as to the wortlmbileness of this work. The
neighlmrhood takes an interest in the work be-
canse the playground furnishes an outlet for the

576

Philadelphia as well as New York
had its play streets last summer,

and the story of the activities con-
ducted on these street playgrounds

and on a number of vacant lots is

told by Mrs. Hanley, Director of
the Recreation Arts Department,
Philadelphia Playground and Rec-

reation Association.

 

play interests of the children,
provides safety from per-
sonal and property damage,
and thus lightens the burdens
of the section or groups."

Still other w0rkers give
testimony: “The children and
the parents of those in the
streets attended by the travel-
ing play leaders actually feel
that you are honoring them
by coming there, and nothing is too much trouble
for them.” Again, “Adults have a chance to join
in the fun and enjoy looking on, something they
do not get a chance to do in regular playgrounds
except on special occasions because they cannot
leave their homes for such long periods. I believe
they await the coming of the workers almost as
eagerly as the youngsters."

Such reports as these are better appreciated
when it is understood that street playgrounds were
established only in districts at least a mile away
from the nearest standard playground and impos-
sible for the children to reach because of transpor-
tation and trafhc handicaps. The districts were
also of the "poor" type in neighborhoods con-
gested both by traftic and humanity, and far re-
moved from any other center providing recrea-
tional opportunities.

 

The Program

The program was practically the same in all the
streets, with adaptations to particular situations.
It began with a “theme song" set to the tune of
"Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here," with words
suitable for the occasion. The first note brought
all the children running, if they were not already
assembled and waiting for the leaders to start the
fun. .\ parade accmnpanied the singing of the
rallying song, and when the gathering was Com-
plete there was a half hour of general singing.
“ith solos now and then for variety, and some
songs gisen with pantomime or dramatized action.

'lhcn the volley ball net was hung across the

 

TAKING PLAY INTO THE HIGHI'VAYS AND BYWAYS 577

street and the players lined up for a game. Other
ball games, such as dodge ball, baseball, if there
was space, and sponge ball were also in great
favor. Then there were races, relays, tag games,
quoits, checkers, jacks, dominoes, singing and
ring games, handcraft, songfests and story-tell-
ing, with pantomime and dramatization incidental
to both, to bring the play period to a happy ending.

Somewhat surprisingly, stories were in great
demand on all these playgrounds, and adults en—
joyed them as much as the children. Rather sur—
prisingly, too, the old fairy tales were strong
favorites. although mystery, adventure and ghost
stories were probably the most generally popular.
But, as one director expressed it: “All stories are
acceptable if they have a hero, heroine and a
‘tough guy.’ ”

Handcraft, also, was remarkably popular, and
was quite evenly- divided between boys and girls,
although there was a difference in the type of
work. The boys preferred making pinwheels and
“flying birds" that gave them an opportunity for
running in operating them,
but they, too, were inter-
ested in making paper vil—

Story-telling has been one of the most popular
activities on the play streets of Philadelphia

lages. One leader found that “there is hardly anv
distinction between boys and girls in crafts as
both enjoy working with their hands.”

Among games, volley ball seems to have been
most popular with both boys and girls, although
baseball ranked a close second with the older ones.
Checkers and jacks were first in quiet games, but
quoits had a strong appeal for older boys and
men. The general expression by all leaders was:
“The' children love games, but always demand
new ones. They are more fond of the games that
require the most physical action. The youngest
children like singing games best, and The Farmer
in the Dell was averagely their favorite.”

Besides these daily programs, there were weekly
special events such as doll shows and parties; pet
shows; baby shows; grotesque parades; exhibits
of handcraft; paper villages and circuses; story
dramatizations; game contests of various kinds,
and track and field meets.

On the Vacant Lots
The vacant lots had about the same program,
except that two of them
were equipped with swings,

(Contimtcd on page 595)

 

Reading for Fun in Rural Mississippi

By BEATRICE SAWYER ROSSELL
Edifor. Bullelin

American Library Association

owx I.\' the cut-over pine lands of Hancock
County in southern Mississippi I recently
spent a memorable day with a county recre-
ation director and a county librarian, both work-
ing under the Emergency Relief Administration.
I had gone to Mississippi simply to see what was
happening in connection with a Unique library
project operating throughout the state under the
Mississippi Library Commission and the Women's
Division of the ERA. I found, however, that
library service was only one of sixteen projects
which the women's division was responsible for,
one of the other fifteen being a state-wide pro-
gram of recreation. How the two undertakings
go hand in hand in a county where they are just
beginning and how much the library can con—
tribute to the success of a recreation program in a
county where the former has been long estab-
lished, were shown first in Hancock and later in
Coahoma Connty.

“\Ve cover the whole county together,” said the
recreation director in Hancock. “Our community
centers are thirty-five or forty miles apart in iso-
lated sections of the county and we like not only
to share the traveling expenses of gas and oil but
also to have companionship.” When the st0p is at
a community center, the county librarian drops
her books and teaches pine needle basketry or
flower making. When at a library station where
there are children, the recreation director holds a
story hour.

Hancock, it should he noted, is almost at the
bottom of the economic ladder now that lumber-

578

ll is lhrilling lo hear of such ven-
lures in cooperalion as Mrs. Ros-
sell describes in her article. We
are forlunalely coming lo realize
more clearly lhan ever before. fhal

recreation. whelher in rural dis-
lricfs or in our cities, has much lo
gain by working more closely wilh
fhe library, and fhaf fhese fwo civic
movements can be mufually helpful.

 

ing is no longer its major industry. Books are
read by people who have practically no other form
of pleasure in between visits of the librarian and
recreation director. Even reading is denied some
people who can neither read nor write, but talks
on news of the day are in such cases substituted
for reading matter.

It is difficult, of course, to do much either with
book service or with recreation in a county where
you have no publicly supported library and almost
no money to spend for recreation. Friendly peo-
ple in Bay St.‘ Louis, however, have contributed
900 books and numerous magazines—many of
them excellent—to launch the library; a banker
has supplied rooms to house it; a tag day has
provided a small amount of cash for book pur—
chases, and local musicians and artists have given
their talent to provide additional revenue. Glanc~
ing over the library collection that has resulted,
one finds among books for children such titles as
“Heidi,” “Hans Brinker,” "Bambi." "Invincible
Louisa." In a rental collection of recent Fiction
for adults are the best of the best sellers now
pOpular throughout the country. Better Home:
and Gardens, National Geographic, Coffirr’s and
Good Housekeeping are prominent among the
magazines.

No books on quilting are yet to he found in the
slim collection, but that does not mean that the
county librarian can do nothing about it when the
recreation director starts a grottp of women mak-
ing quilts. Since the women who are to make the
quilts in some instances lack even the,needle and

READING F O R 17 UN 1 N R URA L M [SS] SSIPPI 579

thread with which to sew them, they naturally
have not much in the way of pieces. “If you have
any pieces which could be used for quilts, please
leave them at the library,” requests the county
librarian. Boxes resulting from such requests
thereafter accompany books in the back of the car
and soon eighty quilts, the first one finished to
receive a prize, will be displayed at a county
exhibit.

A slender but precious stream of plays, poems.
books of travel and other reading matter has
flowed steadily in and out of the Hancock library
from the Mississippi Library Commission whose
secretary, Miss Elizabeth Robinson, presented the
library project to the VVomen’s Division of the
ERA the day work projects were acceptable. \Vel—
come ideas for the recreation program come from
the state recreation director in Jackson, Miss Lil-
lian Tucker. and also from the National Recrea-
tion Association in New York.

“\Ve just couldn’t live without ‘Recreational
Games and Programs’ ” was the grateful comment
on that N.R.A. publication. And the lectures of
Mr. and Mrs. John Bradford, who were sent to
Mississippi by the Recreation Association, were
declared to be “just marvelous.” Games, group
dances and many parties which were popular at a
CCC camp in the county were the result of Mr.
and Mrs. Bradford’s suggestions.

The long view which both the librarian and the
recreation director are taking in their work was
apparent from their conver—
sation. Possible support of
every kind is being developed

Books and magazines are brought in cars
to many of the isolated county schools

by the librarian so that the book service begun
may be extended and made permanent. “What
we are doing in recreation is of course useful in
keeping up people’s morale in a county which is
almost if not entirely without a payroll,” said the
recreation director, “but what we must find is
some way to restore these people to financial in-
dependence.”

Outright relief for the many needy people in
the county was deplored as having a deteriorating
effect upon character. The possibility of coopera—
tive undertakings similar to those which have
raised the economic status of rural communities
in Denmark, England. Japan and elsewhere, which
could perhaps use the community groups now or-
ganized as their nucleus, seems to be ,one of the
ideas now receiving consideration.

\Vhat the Hancock County Library may some
day contribute to organized recreation and the
sheer enjoyment of people’s free time, if the pres-
ent library can be developed and made permanent,
is being demonstrated in Coahoma County at the
other end of the state. Here, too, the beginning
of the headquarters’ library at Clarksdale was
modest, but that was twenty years ago and county-
wide service has now been given for ten years.

Not by the librarian, but by the county recrea-
tion director, was the value of the library in rela-
tion to organized recreation made evident.

Quilting is popular in Coahoma as in Hancock
County, and ideas for patterns come from library
books. Rug-making, smock-
ing, faggoting, bound button-
holes and bedspreads also

 

580 READING FOR PU}.r IN It‘UIt’AI. MISSISSIPPI

occupy the sewing classes and the library fosters
their interests. A community shop will be held in
Clarksdale before Christmas at which these sew-
ing clubs can sell their articles and purchasers
may secure inexpensive toys as well as fancy work.

So well have Coahoma women done their sew-
ing that three of their handmade shades were
exhibited at the National Recreation Association
meeting in \Vashington, and a bedspread made of
197 tobacco sacks, briar-stitched in pink on a
cream ground, was also shown at W'ashington.

A women’s baseball team has been successfully
organized as another feature of the recreation
program, and the library has furnished the rules.

Get-together parties attract 60 to 200 old people
and young, and books suggest folk dances or sup—
ply words and tunes for community sings.

A “kiddie band” leads a Tom Thumb parade
during the Cotton Festival, and the library helped
in the training of the bandsmen and in costuming
the paraders.

Story hours draw overflow audiences of as
many as 350 children, and the story teller gathers
material for her stories at the library.

Playground supervisors keep five playgrounds
in the county open daily and turn to the library
for games and books on handicrafts. Last winter
much work was done with little children in con-
solidated rural schools, where the younger chil-
dren leave school about two o'clock and the bus
is not ready to take them and the older children
home until four. Games and stories in the gym-
nasium on bad days or supervised play in the sun-
shine on good days, kept everybody so happy and
out of mischief that it is hoped the work can be
continued this year.

Not all that the Coahoma library does to in-
crease people's enjoyment of their leisure is done
through the medium of the county recreational
director. Mississippi is rich in bird life, and study
of the birds is begun in the kindergarten. It is
roughly estimated that 75 books on birds are kept
in almost constant circulation among bird lovers.
young and old. throughout the county.

Handsome trees are another asset in Missis-
sippi, and books on trees, flowers and other na-
tional beauties are also in constant use.

Depending on your point of view, Mississippi's
snakes may be regarded as an asset or a liability,
but a subject of fascinating study at a regional
scout camp near Clarksdale they certainly are.
Ditmar's “Reptile Book" helps to identify the dif-
ferent specimens catight and caged by young sci-

entists who study their characteristics. Books on
handicrafts such as leather and woodwork are
popular with both Girl and Boy Scouts, as are
many other library volumes. In fact so much (lid
the Scouts use the library this year that the Rotary
Club which Sponsors the camp is giving the library
money for books to extend their camp service
HBXI summer.

Radio plays an increasing part in the life of
Clarksdale readers, especially among the members
of an Opera Study Club who keep two copies of
the "\'ictrola Book of the Opera" from getting
dusty on the shelves. A fine music teacher in the
local high school contributes her enthusiasm to-
ward keeping this opera study group far from
being superficial. Radio also brings current book
reviews and the number of books purchased to
meet individual listener's demands is constantly
increasing.

If the Mississippi Library Commission and the
far-seeing director of the W'omen's Division of
the ERA have their way, library service as useful
to recreation and other community interests as
that in Coahoma will some day be provided on a
state-wide basis. An FERA librarian is now serv-
ing in every county of the state, with two li-
brarians in some of the larger counties. Recrea-
tion directors, too, are in almost every County. As
is to be expected In undertakings less than a year
old and started as work relief projects, there is
much unevenness in prOgress reported, but in
every county visited there was surprising local
support and enthusiasm for the work that is be-
ing attempted. Five hundred dollars a year from
a board of supervisors here, a five-year lease on
a county library headquarters there, a new log-
house library built with community effort some-
where else, testify to the genuineness of local
backing. The limited resources of the state library
commission make it diflicult for a state book col-
lection of 4, 500 volumes to supplement adequately
county-wide service in eighty or more counties.
but looking over the records of titles in circula-
tion one realizes how valiantly many books in the
state collection are doing service.

Mathews’ “Book of Wild Flowers for Young
People," for example, has circulated this year to
two principals in small town high schools, a-high
school teacher, the caretaker of a reading center,
a county librarian and a rural mother, all in dif-
ferent parts of the state. \Volcott's “Book of
Games and Parties” has gone to a parent-teacher

(Continua! on page 596)

 

For a Good Time—a "Ridiculous Party"

By RUTH M. LUTHER

Supervisor of Physical Education
Public Schools

Huntington, Indiana.

HIS year when a committee was appointed

for a teachers’ party we racked our brains

trying to think of some way to entertain a
large ‘crowd that would ensure an entertain-
ment in which all would participate and have
a good time.

We decided to have a ridiculous party, and
mimeographed invitations went out instructing
the guests to appear attired in a ridiculous way
on penalty of having to stunt if they failed
to wear costumes. The teachers dropped their
dignity for the time, and the men appeared in
every conceivable kind of costume, ranging
from the fireman just off duty with streaks of
soot still on his face, swinging his lantern as
he came in, to the dude-or “dandy” in full
dress wearing spats and derby, carrying a gold-
headed cane, and with a large chrysanthemum
fastened in his buttonhole. The women’s
costumes were equally unique. We had a
colored Topsy with us, her hair in short braids
tied with rags all over her head. We had a
dainty bride dressed in white satin of the gay
nineties. We even had a pair of red-headed
Siamese twins! Everyone had so much fun
looking over the other felllow’s costume that
it was some time before we could start our

program.

Unique Dance Variations

Each guest was given a dance program. Be-
fore the programs were filled a set of foolish
rules and regulations governing the dances
was read. There were five so-called dances on
the program. When the guests had their pro-
grams filled they were instructed ‘to skip to
their first partner and ask him to tell the fun-
niest joke he knew. In the second dance every-

Why shouldn’t teachers forget their
dignity occasionally and have a good
time? They should and can, is Miss
Luther’s answer, and she tells just
how ridiculous a party can be made!

one did a two-step to his partner and the
women were asked to tell about their first love
affair. In number three dance partners waltzed
to each other and exchanged their most inter-
esting trip experiences. The fourth dance was
a gallop, and when the partners met they were
asked to solve a proverb which was written
in a most absurd manner. These proverbs and
answers were typed on slips of paper and
handed to the group. In the fifth number
partners joined in the grand march while
judges made their selection for the prize to be
awarded for the most ridiculous costume. The
grand march proceeded to the hallway and up
the stairs to another room where a ’baby

“picture show contest formed the second part

of the entertainment.

The Baby Show Contest. We had secured
the baby pictures of fifteen principals and
supervisors. One at a time these interesting
specimens of humanity were thrown on the
screen with a lantern while the group tried
to guess and write down the name of the
individual on their score cards. A few “bright
remarks” were' made as each picture was
thrown on the screen. The pictures were given
a second time and the name also as each person
checked his score card. The funny part of the
baby show was that some individuals failed to
recognize their own pictures!

An Impromptu Program. The third part of
the program was given in the gymnasium.
Group singing of ridiculous songs was led by
one of the members. One persOn who just
began to take piano lessons as her latest hobby
was asked to play a number. She responded by
calling four others to sing as she accompanied

(Continued on page 597)
581

The Farm Woodlot as a Playground

The beauty which the pioneer had
so little time to contemplate is
being rediscovered and conserved

By
HENRY S. CURTIS, PhD.

m: FOREST was once the dominant feature in
Tthe landscape of America. In the time of

Columbus more than half of our entire coun-
try was covered with a vast woods. It harbored
hostile savages and predatory animals that
preyed upon the stock of the pioneer. It was
out of it that he must carve his home and win
the land for his crop. It was the great enemy
to be destroyed.

From it he chose the logs for his house and
split the rails for his fence, until the saw mill
came; but the forest itself he felled, logged
into heaps and burned, leaving the stumps for
yet another generation to struggle with. This
ruthless destruction has gone on steadily from
the beginning, and the area of forest has
decreased with every year. But as the area has
grown less timber has grown more valuable.

Our forest acreage is still decreasing, but
with the present administration has come a
movement for reforestation. The forests were
first an enemy to be destroyed, then prospec-
tive lumber.

Now they are becoming in addition the play-
ground of the nation, the place for hunting,
camping, summer cottages, picnicking and the
simple life. \Ve are discovering in great trees
a beauty that the pioneer did not have time to
contemplate. It is becoming almost a sacrilege
to fell one of these monarchs of the centuries.

Many Beautiful Trees

\Vashtenaw County has many beautiful trees,
but they are not well distributed. The dogwood
and redbud are found in general only in the
woods, though they are well suited for the door
yards as well. The hawthorn and crabapple are
beautiful in their spring blossoms, and they

582

 

Camping in the woods is always so much
more fun when water sports are possible

are much preferred by most song birds for
nesting because the thorns are not pleasing to
bats or hawks or bluejays. The mountain ash
is a beautiful tree and its orange red berries
usually hold on until they are eaten by the
birds. The juniper makes many hillsides so at-
tractive they are worth going far to see.

It is beautiful alike in summer against the
background of the forest floor and in winter
against the snow. The County contains many
beautiful clumps of tamarack also, which stand
out in striking contrast from the surrounding
trees.

The tr0pical forest is always much the same,
but the seasons offer an everchanging pano-
rama to the temperature climes from the open-
ing buds of spring through the light and dark
greens of summer to the red and yellow leaves
of autumn. Then the storm king brings them
whirling down to decorate our lawns, and the.
trees stand bare against the wintry sky, in the
delicate laccwork of the elm, the trailing
beauty of the willow and the sturdy strength
of the oak. Through their branches the stars
seem to gleam more brightly, and the electric
lights throw against our house a fretwork of
shadows, which suggest a land of fairies.

Then the winter storms coat these bare
branches with snow and ice "until every pine
and fir and hemlock wears emerald too clear for

THE FARM WOODLOT AS A PLAYGROUND 583

an earl.” \Vhat may not this cycle of change

have meant in arousing the evolving human
spirit?

Three University Forests

There are three forests, the Saginaw Forest
of 80 acres, the Stinchfield \Voods of 312 acres,
and the Eber White Woods of 43 acres where
scientific forestry is being carried on by the
University of Michigan, but this seems to
have influenced the practice of the County sur—
prisineg little. There is practically no attempt
by private individuals to do anything in the
way of forest management. Perhaps this is not
unnatural when we consider that it takes 60
or 70 years to grow a tree to saw log size.

Contrasted with the long deferred and un—
certain crop of lumber that may be ruined at
any time by fire or uprooted by a tornado are
the recreation values of the forest where the
dividends may be had at any time at the desire
of the user. They represent a value which is
sure to be increaseed by the new leisure and
that can not readily be cancelled or depreciated.

The forest is usually a chief feature in all
state and national parks, as well as in outlying
metropolitan parks. It is also at least one fea—
ture in all city parks if any considerable size.
This can only mean that it has a deep intrinsic
appeal, that in some way and for some deep
reason it stands for relief from worry and the
strains of life. It is estimated that four million
people camped out in our state and national
forests last year. Probably nearly all of the
camp sites were in the woods. People do not
camp in the open fields. The place that is
sought is always a forest on the side of a body
of water.

From the time I was six until I was twelve
or thereabouts, the play life of the children of
our neighborhood centered around the creeks
that crossed my father’s farm and the play
houses which we built from
discarded railroad ties in the
woods. There were two rival
cabins among the children and
each group aspired to have
the best decorated and most
convenient cabin. We man—
aged to make roofs from old
boards and filled the cracks
between the logs with moss.
We had farms adjacent, which

In the findings of a recreation sur-
vey of Washtenaw County, Mich-
iganl Dr. CurtisI Director of the
study, reporting on natural re-
sourcesI makes some suggestions
for the recreational use of these
resources. His suggestions are so
universally applicable that we
quote from sections of the report

appearing in the
Daily News, December I8. 1934.

we plowed with crooked sticks in true prima—
tive fashion and planted a variety of wild

things. Most farm children would appreciate
such a retreat.

Woodcraft

Every country child ought to practice some—
thing of the woodcraft of the Scouts. It is not
difficult to make a brush leanto that will serve
for a shelter on a summer night if any shelter
is desired. If there is a considerable variety of
trees and anywhere to go through the woods,
most children would enjoy making a nature
trail and marking the trees or a treasure hunt
or trailing game. With a little encouragement
and showing, they will make fairly good bows
and arrows, and find much fun in playing
Indians.

The forest at night is an enchantment to one
who has learned to know it. Many little sounds
that are lost in the hum of the day now come
to the surface, and faint noises perhaps a mile
away are distinctly heard which would scarcely
carry a hundred yards at noon time. The snap-
ping of a twig may come almost like a pistol
shot, while the scampering of the flying squir-
rels along the branches, their flight from
branch to branch and the flitting of bats help
to make up the general impression. In most
places one is aware of rabbits moving about,
often at a considerable distance. There will
often be the call of some night bird, an owl,
whippoorwill or goatsucker, and on moonlight
nights, Titania and all the fairies seem to be
dancing in every open glade with each flutter-
ing leaf.

The federal government is proposing to
plant a wind break a hundred miles wide from
the Canadian to the Mexican border. A tree
breaks the wind in its lee for a distance about
ten times its height. The forest quells the
storm. Often one may hear it roaring through
the tree tops while there is
scarcely a flurry in the aisles
below. But there is scarcely
ever a day so calm in a pine
forest that one may not hear
the.murmLIring in the branches
overhead. The forest is cooler
by day and warmer by night
than the lands outside. This
effect in a large forest goes
three feet down into the earth

Ann Arbor

534 THIS FARM WOODLOT AS :1 PLAYGROUND

Sections which were once woodlots now
often provide winter sports facullhes

below and five thousand feet up into the sky
above. The forest humidifies its atmosphere
so it is never as dry as the air outside. It has
its own distinctive smells', and there is a feel-
ing in the air that seems to come through the
skin or some general sense. \Ve should know
where we were if we were blindfolded and
deposited in a forest without warning.

Recreational Uses of Forests

The great forest and especially the wilder-
ness is a place of meditation where the
thoughtful naturally retire to be alone with
their deepest life problems. There is something
almost religious in its solitude. “The trees were
God's first temples.” To the serious minded it
has always been.

Apparently the largest recreative use of our
forests is coming to be for picnicking and
camping, but their Original use all over the
world was for hunting. These hunting forests
are still preserved pretty largely in England
and Scotland and parts of the continent as
private parks or hunting preserves. Hunting
takes first place among the outdoor recreations
of the rural people of \Vashtenaw County,
who were interviewed, as 168 out of 434 gave
hunting as one of their favorite forms of recrea-
tion. For many it seems to be the only form.
There were 4,758 hunter's licenses taken out
last year, but as farmers often hunt on their
own farms without licenses, and boys are still
more apt to do so, the number of licenses must
be considerable less than the numbers who are
hunting.

There are several elements in the pleasure
of the hunt. One of which is the appeal of the
out of doors and the forest. Man's nervous
responses have been built up through many
thousands of years of human and prehuman
hie-tory. The forest awakes old racial memories
that are untouched by the noises and sights
of the city.

llowever, hunting where there is no game
is not very exciting. A farmer who enjoys
hunting or who wishes a profitable forest
should keep his stock out of the woods. Stock
destroys the undcrgrowth and cover for nesting

 

places of quail and pheasants. Planting a few
cedars, junipers or spruces will help by offering
protection from the blizzards of winter and
general roosting places. Brush heaps are also
appreciated. The pastured woods looses most of
its recreative as well as its commercial values.

One of the pleasant experiences of winter
is to go into the woods after a recent snow and
find where all its wild people live, to observe
the tracks of the mice, squirrels, rabbits, quail
and pheasants, to see how they are spending
the nights and what food they are securing,
when apparently there is no food and what
protection they have found against a temper-
ature often below zero, in which they must go
barefooted through the snow.

. Most game animals and birds retire to the
swamps, where the undergrowth is more dense
and there is a greater variety of food during
the severe weather. \Vhere there is a small lake
in the center, as is often the case, such a swamp
forms a natural game sanctuary and should be
preserved. Altogether too many of them have
been cleared and partially drained.

Every child should spend a night in the

THE FARM WOODLOT AS A PLAYGROUND 585

woods occasionally during the summer. One
who has only seen the woods by day knows
only half the story. To sit around a camp fire
at night, to see the stars and the moon through
the tree tops, to tell and hear stories, to listen
to the myriad sounds that come through the
stillness, the rustling of the leaves, the lowing
of cattle, the bleating of sheep, the hooting of
an owl perhaps a mile away. These effects are
intensified by the stillness and the strangeness
so that they are difficult to forget. One’s bed is
apt to be hard, and the mosquitoes are not al-
ways considerate. He may not sleep much, but
the experience is one that should be packed
away somewhere in the memory cabinet of
every child.

The love of the out—of—doors enters into the
pleasure of golf, of walking, of driving. of hunt-
ing and fishing and farm work itself. It is a
pleasure that is not confined to either sex or to
any age. It has no narrow cycle of years like
football and baseball. It is not limited to a few
minutes or hours a day like basketball. It enhan-
ces the pleasure of a canoe trip, an auto trip,
a chair on the back porch, or a hammock under
a tree. It adds its own charm to the romance
of courtship. It is so vital a phase of life itself
that all education should encourage and pre-
pare for it. Nature study offers dozens of
projects to the country child, for week ends
and summer vacations, which the school should
at least suggest if not organize. Its funda-
mental virtue is truthfulness, which nature and
science alike demand of all their worshippers.

The same measures that will improve the
woods for game will also increase the song
birds and insect eaters. A woods with a large
and varied bird population is much more at-
tractive than one with only a few such inhabit—
ants, and the birds labor like paid workmen in
keeping down the insect pests. Not all children
are naturalists, but at least nine out of ten are
interested in birds and like to watch them.
Every country child should have a small pocket
guide to the common birds and should come
to know at least forty or fifty varieties and
something of their habits.

Another book that every farm family should
own is a book of the common wild flowers in
colors. Most children love flowers. At the rural
school that 1 attended as a boy, a good share of
the children would go to a woods nearly half

a mile away at noon for wild flowers once or
twice a week in spring, though they would
have to run a good share of the way back in
order to reach the school in time. Children
should be encouraged to collect and press all
the common varieties.

Another trip that children always enjoy is a
nutting party for walnuts and hickory nuts in
the fall. It is quite as much fun to gather them
as it is to eat them afterwards. In my experi-
ence, climbing the trees and shaking off the
nuts was often the most interesting part of the
whole adventure. There are not many good
sugar bushes .in \Vashtenaw, and so far as our
survey discovered, no large ones, but where
one can go to a sugar house in March when
the snow is still on the ground for a candy pull,
it is an adventure to be remembered.

A steak fry, a bacon or marshmallow roast—-
the country child who has missed these has
missed half his birthright. It is always more at-
tractive if the shadows of evening are closing
in. Even a shade of fear that draws the circle
c‘lose about the fire does not detract from the
enjoyment. The forest offers dozens of delight—
ful experiences to country children, which are
more difficult for city children. But in all these
great caution should be observed against
spreading fire, the devouring demon of the
forest. I am reminded of a motto that I saw
recently in a rural cabin: “A match has a head,
but it hasn’t any- brains. Don’t let it go out in
the woods alone.”

Hunting, watching the birds, picking and
collecting wild flowers, a nutting trip, a sugar
party, a night in the woods, these are experi-
ences that every country child should have,
but the work of a woodsman also has a con—
siderable appeal. The chopping 0r sawing down
a tree, deciding where it is to fall, to see it come
down and listen to its crash, all these linger in
the memory. Such work uses about every
muscle in the trunk, arms and legs under the
best of Conditions. It offers a variety that is
lacking from most of the work in industry.

No woods exploit or adventure has been sug-
gested that has net been proved by ample ex-
perience. There is no doubt that children like
to do these things. Probably all country chil-
dren have done some of them, but few perhaps
have done them all. Parents may well suggest
the others.

Musical Arts

A plea for giving music an
important place in the com-
munity's recreation program

By MARIE V. FOSTER

Supervisor of Music
Recreation Commission
San Francisco, California

 

Conrtuy San Francisco Recreatiovt Commission

USIC as A PART of the recreation program is
M a comparatively new thing. I do not need
to defend its position on that program. I
would like to discuss, however, how we may best
present this activity to the community for the
greatest lasting good. {y way of discussion I
might philosophize and discuss at some length the
benefit of actual participation in music rather than
the mere listening to it. I might debate the ques-
tion whether it was better to present an informal
type of program or one in which intensive study
was the ultimate aim. I could raise the question
whether the music presented should l.e on a level
with the artistic development already achieved in
our group or whether the levels should be raised
by the presentation of the highest type of music.
I will. however. instead of talking theoretically,
give you San Francisco's answer to all these
questions.

It has been the wish of San Francisco’s Recre-
ation (Tonnnission that music should be a very real
experience to as large a number as possible. \Ve
had long felt that our country was becoming one
of "listeners" and that the real
joy of music. was being lost
when it was not actively par-
ticipated in. lior that reason we
have encouraged the formation
of singing groups in as many of
our city playgrounds as were
equipped to handle them. From

a unall beginning six years ago other cities.

53“

This account of music develop-
ments in San Francisco was pre-
sented by Mrs. Foster at the Re-
gional Conference of the National

Recreation Association in Santa
Barbara. California. in April I934.
Similar results may be attained.

under competent leadership. in

we now have eighteen organized groups of little
children and nine grottps of adults. Singing has
been developed most extensively since the voice
is an instrument common to us all. For the very
small child we have offered the rhythm band or
toy symphony. It is only necessary to watch these
little ones to know the joy they have in actually
playing in an orchestra. Harmonica bands and
small orchestras exist on many of our play-
grounds. For the advanced music student we have
the Junior Civic Symphony. Here the best of
symphonic music may be enjoyed by actual par-
ticipation. Just now our orchestra is working on
a Beethoven Symphony. some dances by Edward
German. and they have a personal knowledge of
fine musie.

I should like to tell you of our group of moth-
ers organized for singing. They come from un—
derprivileged homes where a first-hand knowledge
or actual participation in good music would never
have been their experience unless offered them by
the Recreation Contn‘tission or some such organi-
zation. Some of these women have attended re-
hearsals regularly for over two
years and have taken part in
many programs both on their
own grounds and in city-wide
e\ents. They love to sing and
have expressed their gratitude
so many times for the privilege
of choral study. One woman
made the remark that she lived

MUSICAL ARTS 587

from one rehearsal to the next. She. and others
like her, have been starved for some form of
musical expression, and it is our privilege to be
able to furnish a worthy means.

In San Francisco many of our glee clubs have
been singing together three and four years. The
majority of them are between the ages of four-
teen to twenty. If they were not able to make a
good appearance by singing well, if they were not
continually striving to improve, I am very certain
they would not continue to come for a period of
years to our singing groups. One group of Rus-
sian boys met regularly last year under the direc-
tion of a very able musician. They were given
good music to sing and their repertoire included a
number of folk songs in their own tongue. They
sang with a great joy and virility of tone. It be-
came necessary to change directors, and the young
man who took charge was interested in a different
manner of presentation and in a different class of
music. The boys lost interest, and from a large
enthusiastic group they stopped eoming entirely.
They were interested only in learning good musie
under able direction.

Our eighteen groups of little children are worthy
of mention. These children come to sing because
they really love it, and they are taught to sing well.
They learn to sing with a clear, sweet tone that is
not forced; they are taught to interpret the poem
they are singing; great emphasis is placed on the
correct and distinct pronunciation of words;
phrasing and artistic interpretation are a part of
the study, and they learn the discipline of singing
under a director.

San Francisco feels very proud of its newest
highly intensified branches of musical study.
These are the boys’ choir and a group of madrigal
singers. The choir has a membership of about
twenty boys chosen not for their means or social
background, but because they love to sing, are
willing to work hard, are to be relied upon for
rehearsal attendance, and have good natural voices.
These boys are young boys, ages eight to twelve
years; they meet twice a week for rehearsal and
are most earnest. During the opera season last
fall they took part in several of the operas, learn-
ing Italian angl singing under the stern direction of
the opera conductor.

The madrigal group is, of course, small and is
composed of some high school students who were
anxious to have that intensive study called for by
madrigal singing. They also meet twice a week.

This past year, through the CWA, we have been

able to offer a very special form of intensive
study. \V e have had a piano teaeher who has been
able to give class work on a number of our play-
grounds. \\'hen we hear the expressions of grati-
tude coming from those who might otherwise
never have been able to learn to play the piano, it
makes us wish our hands were not so tied by lack
of funds.

Yet with all this study we know we are pre-
senting real recreation, for there is real joy in the
study of musie; the children are doing the thing
they love to do, and the attendance Figures bear
out the statement.

In regard to the music to be presented in San
Franeisco, the folk tunes are used almost exclu-
sively with the younger children, and the larger
ones sing two and three part arrangements of folk
music. An interesting group on one of our play-
grounds is a club of Italian young men. These
boys have been singing together for almost three
years and have a repertoire of a great many lovely
Italian songs. Many of these are Italian publica-
tions little known in our country. Just now they
are singing an unpublished song one of the boys’
father sings, arranged by one of om very able
pianists. Groups the same age all over the city
learn the same songs and for programs gain a
great inspiration singing together. About forty
girls of high school age, many of whom have been
singing in their playground glee elubs for three
and four years, recently sang very beautifully
"Greeting" by Mendelssohn and “Romance” by
Rubinstein in two parts.

We have one center in San Francisco, organized
primarily to take care of a delinquency situation.
One club of boys, ages eighteen to twenty-five
years, felt they had a fairly well rounded program
but would like to meet onee a week for singing.
For singing I have said purposely, not for glee
club. They wanted to sing the latest popular songs
and nothing else, and they did not eare whether
they even sang them well or not. \Ve met their
request but also gave them “On the Road toMan-
dalay,” “01' Man River,” Oley Speak's “Sylvia,”
“Soldier's Chorus" from Faust and other songs
of like nature. Just now they are preparing to
sing for their open house. For that they have
needed to think of tone, attack, diction, interpre-
tation. You will be most interested to know that
one number on their program is Beethoven’s
“Adoration of Nature.” W e have most certainly
raised the level of their appreciation. I could tell

(Continued on page 597)

Service of Hon. John Barton Payne

to the

Recreation Movement

EPRESENTATIVI—Z of the highest
R type of cultivated legal

mind, John Barton Payne
brought to the ofhce with his ap-
pointment as Commissioner on
the Board of South Park Commissioners in Chi-
cago, that freedom from bias and capacity for line
discrimination which made him a distinguished
member of the bar. He became almost at once
President of the Board of Commissioners and
continued to hold that relation to the Board for
thirteen years.

Ilis administration was characterized by a
judicially maintained balance. He insisted that
standards of maintenance of park properties be
observed no less than standards of park serv-
ice. Groups pleading for enlargement of space
for play found their requests balanced against
the plea of other groups whose pleasure in the
parks was to be derived from beauties of land-
scape. Active recreation claimed his support
and received it, but himself sensitive to the
bare appearance of the recreation buildings as
he found them on taking
office, he set aside the
salary to which he was

On January

By V. K. BROWN

Chief of Recreation Division
Chicago Parlt District

24, 1935. John Barton Payne,

recreation programs. Never un-
sympathetic toward anyone
presenting a plea for the values
of leisure activity in the serv-
ice which was coming to be
traditional in the park system, he guarded both
himself and the staff of the Playgrounds De-
partment against any possibility of being
swept from their moorings by sentiment or
emotionalism.

Public office was to him a responsibility and
a trust, rather than an honor and a commis-
sion. Disciplined intellectually himself, he ex-
pected of those under his command evidence
of the same sort of discipline to which he held
his own dispassionate mind. There was room
in his view of life for any enthusiasm, place for
any sport or avocation, provided only that it
did not transgress the code of a gentleman by
which he lived and to which he expected others
to adhere.

Under this austere code, his administration
was perhaps best epitomized by the observa-
tion of the well known
mural painter, \V. B. Van
Ingen, who attended one

entitled as President,
and which he would not
accept, allowing that un-
claimed salary to accumu—
late and form an art fund
used to purchase etchings,
mural paintings and other
works of art for the lield
houses, in order that the
art consciousness of the
park communities might
be cultivated. no less than
the play consciousness in

’_

s' a

former Secretary of the InteriorI an active
worker in the National Conference of State
Parks. and Chairman of the American Red
Cross. died in Washington, D. C. Judge
Payne, from I909 to 1934, was a member
of the Chicago South Park Board. and for
the ears |9|| to 1924 he was chairman of
the board. The worlt done by the Chicago
South Park Board in the recreation field has
been known throughout the world. The
board has been fortunate in having the
leadership of such men as George T.
Donoghue and V. K. Brown and the execu-
tive staff, and the leadership of Judge Payne
in standing back of the extensive recrea-
tion program in Chicago was outstanding.

of the meetings of the
Board of South Park
Commissioners, and
after seeing its orderly
procedures with Judge
Payne in the chair, stated
that if any city really de-
sired to put its park serv—
ice on a superior plane of
excellence, it could do no
better than turn the job
over to the South l‘ark
Board.

 

Courtesy The Municipality, published by the Wisconsin League of Municipalities

A BAND shell of the

latest scientific de-

sign has been com-

pleted by the city of
Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, the entire project
having been financed by the Park Committee
from funds received through park activities and
other benefits. The shell is of the sounding
plane type constructed of steel and concrete
and amplifies the music in full brilliancy and
without echo. By means of special control the
music director may change the interior color
of the shell to harmonize with the music
played. There is space for fifty musicians each
of whom is furnished with an illuminated port-
able music rack. A platform 10’ by 42’ is
provided at the front for special feature acts.
The combination of music and light has attrac-
ted large crowds to the concerts.

Beaver Dam’s New
Band Shell

A JOINT play and
health center pro—
gram involving the
construction of com—
munity playgrounds on top of health center
buildings has been announced by the Health
Department and Park Department of New
York City, according to the November 23rd
issue of the N ew York Times. The first com-
bination development will be built on the upper
East Side and others, possibly as many as five,
will be erected later. The first center will be
built on city owned property taken over by the

Building Play Sites on
Health Centers

Park Department and will be a two story
structure giving access to the roof by a separ—
ate entrance and a stairway. The area avail-
able for play will be the same as though the
playground had been built on the street level.
It will contain a swimming pool, outdoor gym—
nasium apparatus and swings. Shrubs and trees
will be planted in pots.

THE New Hamp—
shire State Develop-
ment Commission of
Concord, New
Hampshire, has prepared a most interesting
map of the state’s skiing trails classifying them
according to the degrees of difficulty and giv-
ing information regarding the location of each
trail, its length, width, maximum grade, vert-
ical descent and exposure. Following the list
of trails mention is made of a number of other
localities affording good skiing.

Skiing in New
Hampshire

ON December 25th
the fiftieth anniver-
sary of the founding
of the first settle—
ment house, Toynbee Hall, London, was cele—
brated. In honor of the anniversary an interna—
tional broadcast was arranged through the
courtesy of the National Broadcasting Com-
pany. Groups of settlement children in England
and America sang Christmas carols. Helen
Hall, President of the National Federation of

589

In Celebration of an
Important Event

590 . WORLD AT PLAY

 

S U MM ER
SESSIONS

PENN STATE

Inter-Session. June 11 to Inn. 28
Main Souloa. July 1 to Aug. 9
Pool Smlon. Aug. 12 to Aug. 30

College decent for students and teachers a!
Health, Physical Education and athletic coaching
Seeleee of degrees In Health and Physical Edn-
ration ind Perm State's populae summer eeeeina
ideal. Combmee thorough study with real vaca-
tion (are in the heart of the Allegheaies. Unusual

recreational opportunities. Modern gymnasium.
Tainan. room and board surprisingly low.

Graduate enureee leading to advanced degrees.
Undergraduate enursee leading to baccalaureate
degree. Special eunrees in athletic coaching for
men aad women. Nationally-known eoachiug rta'.

For catalog address
Direetoe a! Summer Sessions

The PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
State College. Pa.

Settlements, introduced Jane Addams who
gave the greetings of the settlements from the
United States to Toynbee Hall. James J. Mal-
lon, \Varden of Toynbee Hall, introduced
Margaret Bondheld, formerly Secretary of
LabOr, who replied for England.

In connectiOn with this anniversary it is
interesting to recall that two years later (1886)
the American Settlement Neighborhood Guild,
now the University Settlement, was founded.
There are now 151 settlements in active mem-
bership in the National Federation of Settle-
ments, 48 afliliated through individual mem-
bership of the head worker, and probably 300
church houses, social centers and other organ-
izations which grew out of the same impulse.
The recreation movement owes much to the
inspiration and experimentation of the settle-
ments.

A City-Wide Ping Pong Tournament—The
Recreational Leaders' Association of New
York City, whose members are composed of
workers associated with the \Vorks Division,
on December 27, 28 and 29 sponsored a city-
wide ping pong tournament held at The
Church of All Nations. There were live divi-
sionsv-three for boys, two for girls. The boys'
classifications were 8 to 12 years, 13 to 16, 17
to 2!: the girls’ 8 to 12 and t3 to 16. An en-
trance fee of 25¢ for a team of ten was charged.
Medals were awarded the winners and runners-
up in each division and a trophy was awarded
the club, institution or troup attaining the
highest number of points.

Planning the Recreation Center- ‘One of the
projects offered by the Beaux Arts Institute

 

of Design, 30.4 East 44th Street, New York
City, was the planning of a recreation center
on a plot 200' by 400’. Seventy drawings were
submitted. The eight plans for which awards
were offered were reproduced in the October,
1934 issue of the Bulletin of the Beaux Arts
Institute of Design, e0pies of which may be
secured for 35 cents apiece.

A New Community Center for Lexington—-
In 1933 the people of Lexington, Kentucky,
voted favorably on a $5,000 bond issue for a
combined auditorium-gymnasium, this struc-
ture to be added to Loudoun House in Castle-
wood Park, bought by the city in 1931 for
$85,000. Loudoun House has been completely
remodelled by C\VA labor at an approximate
cost of $10,000. A caretaker has been installed
in three rooms of the House, and the remaining
rooms will be used as a music room, a library,
a dining room, a kitchen, a room for small com-
niunity gatherings, and a woodshop on the first
floor. The second floor will house Girl Scout
and Boy Scout headquarters, a check room,
toilet facilities, and rest rooms. Lexington will
have a complete conununity center in 1935.

Other improvements include the grading and
lighting of Castlewood Park diamond, which
resulted in the scheduling of daily games for a
period of five months. A specially made and
lighted croquet court for adults and two stone
picnic ovens have been added to other facilities
at Castlewood Park.

A Recreation Room in a Police Station—The
Public Recreation Commission of Cincinnati,
Ohio, has established a boys' recreation room
in the third district police station. The room
used is one which formerly housed police
patrols for that district. Its use in no way inter-
feres with the regular police routine, which is
still carried on in the same building as it has an
entirely separate entrance to the street. In this
room about 80 boys play ping pong, basketball,
quoits and similar games under the leadership
of two play leaders working on the FERA
program and assigned from the oflice of the
Commission. The Commission plans to use a
room on the second floor for quiet games and
hobbies.

New Facilities in Cincinnati-—Tw0 and a
half years ago, according to a report submitted

WORLD AT PLA Y 591

to the City Manager of Cincinnati, Ohio, by
Tam Deering, Director of Recreation, an out-
standing problem of the city was, “How shall
we acquire the additional recreational areas
we need ?” The addition of 600 acres to the
recreational plant in the thirty month period
covered by the report has met this need in
part. Next the question arose, “How shall we
finance the necessary improvements?” This
problem has been solved by the application of

local and federal relief funds. $2,500,000 has-

been used to pay the wages of unemployed men-
on recreational projects. $355,500 for materials
and equipment rental has been supplied as
follows: Recreation Improvement Bonds $76,-
500; City Council Relief Bonds $164,000;
Federal Funds $40,000; Private Gifts and
Salvaged Materials $75,000.

The recreation improvement program since
May II, 1932 has afforded continuous employ-
ment to a crew ranging from 500 to 5,000 of
the unemployed. This work program produced
results. Had the same "work been done by
private contract on competitive bidding, an
expenditure of more than $1,000,000 would have
been required. \Vorking on this program men
have been observed regaining their physical
and mental health.

Recreation in Union County’s Parks —- An
attendance totaling 5,731,974 was recorded for
18 Union County, New Jersey, parks in 1934—
a slight increase over 1933. The report lists 42
different recreational activities covering a wide
range from trap shooting to horseback riding
and a horse show.

A Recreation Center for Children—One of
the leading attorneys of Springfield, Massachu-
setts, has put at the disposal of the Division
of Rccreation a large barn which has been con-
verted into a children’s recreation center. The
lower floor has been turned into a menagerie,
and dogs, white rats, rabbits, cats, frogs,
turtles, birds and rodents take one back to the
days of childhood in the old red barn. Mr. King,
the attorney, has given the playground super-
visor an old automobile with free gasoline to
take playground crowds swimming and to out—
lying woods and camps.

Boston Common Tercentenary—On Decem-
ber 18th a program was held in Boston, Massa-

Tennis Courts

0 Improve your clay or dirt courts with
Herr-Clay De Luxe Top Dressing.

Two attractive colors—deep green or

dark red.

Dustless—eliminates glare—improves
footing and general playing qualities
of any clay court.

The cost is low. Literature and com—
plete information furnished upon re-

quest.
. O

Inquire about the famous H AR-TRU
Fast Drying Tennis Court

HAR-TRU CORPORATION

Recreational Construction Engineers

17 East 45th Skeet New York. N. Y.

 

chusetts, inaugurating the observance of the
300th anniversary of Boston Common. The
program was preceded by the “perambulation”
of the Common—a procession of historic
characterizations including the town crier; the
marshal of the procession with his aids; pike-
nien—soldier police of 1634; the Reverend
\Villiam Blackstone, the first white settler and
owner of the Common, 1634; Governor John
Winthrop, chief executive of the Bay Colony,
with soldier escort and Puritans of 1634, and
the police of 300 years ago—pikemen, I634——-
town watch, 1834—state police 1934. Several
other events have been planned, and an indoor
exhibit of historic and other significant articles
is being prepared. Events are being arranged
for the late spring and summer months of 1935.

Archery to the Fore !—-—-At the Second Annual
Recreation Congress to be held at Massachusetts
State Collcge, Amherst, Massachusetts, March 15,
16 and I 7, devotees of the ancient sport of archery
will have a special program at the meeting of the
archery section on March 16. Russell Hoogerhyde,
American champion targct shooter, will give a

5"2 GEORGE D. PRATT

“A richly Ireighted addition to the

literature of recreational organi-
:ation."

v “Dn. CHARLES S. BERNHEIMER

"W'lmt I've been looking for."
“E. C. LixnmuN

“An invaluable aid."
—An'rnmt L. SWIFT, JR.

LEADERSHIP
IN GROUP WORK

By HENRY M. BUSCH

A new type of handbook, filled with praeti.
eal adviee to leaders of recreational groups
“probably the most thorough treatment
of the snhjeet of group work ever pub-
lished. Helpfnl in the development of in-
dividual ellaraeter and social insight. this

hook is as vigorous and original as the per-
sonality of the author. Every leader en-

gaged in club, ealnp, sellool, church, or
other organization work will find this book

constantly useful. Cloth $2.25.

ASSOCIATION PRESS
317 Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y.

series of exhibitions and will discuss shooting and
equipment. A display of equipment is planned. On
March 16 there will be praetice and instruetion
in making tackle. In the evening movies will
be shown of last year’s tournament and a num-
ber of talks given on the promotion and prog-
ress of archery throughout the country.

A Forticth Anniversary—In 1895, the Coun-
cil of jewish \Vomen in Pittsburgh organized
the first activity of what has since developed
into the Irene Kaufman Settlement. From one
small room on the third floor of a house, the
movement has steadily expanded until it is
now one of the largest settlements in the coun-
try. in copying one of the most beautiful plants
to. be found in \nierica. Its. expenditures-ha
few dollars in 1805 and less than $2,000 in [90)

est ceded $304“! in [034. This year the set-
tlement is celebrating it fortieth anniversary.
.“l list wf it+ artivities would represent :1 cont-
llete r--:ter nf .ictivities in which no phase of
re‘ tit! in ind )f the arts has been neglei ted.
Rt seatth wrvtker- everywhere will wish the
settlrment ml its director, Sidney 'l'cller for
l. nx rat a dev ited friend of the recreation

In ' c (Ht untinued sucresr and usefulness

 

 

George D. Pratt

In the death of George D. Pratt the Association
has lost one of itstrue and loyal friends. Mr. Pratt
was one of the first to assist through a contribu-
tion and through moral support and through his
own practical suggestions in helping to build up
the held work of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Through the last twenty-five years he con-
tinued his interest in the work and his financial
support. The strength of the National Recreation
Association has been built upon the loyal support
of George D. Pratt and other men and women
like him.

Mr. l‘ratt gave freely of his own time to the
problems of parks. forestry, art. recreation. He
was pre-eminently a lover of Nature's out-of-
doors. He was greatly concerned for the forests
throughout the country and spent from his own
private fortune to protect them. lle devoted the
best years of his life to making his country a more
habitable place for others and particularly for
youth. lirmn the beginning of the Boy Scout
movement in .\mcrica he servcd as one of its
leaders. lie was active in promoting the “( 'overed
\\'agon" celebration which paid tribute to the
Mnerican pioneers who crossed the plains in the
carly days. He helped to mark the old trails and
historic shrinec associated with the development
of the West.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 593

     
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Childhood Interests, January 1935
Busy Time for Children, by Play Little Bartlett
The Rhythm Band, by Ruth Lanlpland
The Do-As-You-Please Room, by Hilda Richmond

Mind and Body, December 1934-January 1935
Physical Education in Germany, by Elizabeth Hoffa

Recreation in Scandinavian Countries, by J. Sigrid
Edstrom

An American Student at the Deutsche Hochschule
fuer Liebesuebungen, Berlin, by Mildred McGee

Mimatic Games, by Grover U. Mueller

The Game of “Siege,” by Karl Kuehne

Parks and Recreation, January 1935

Chicago Park Systems Consolidated

Park and Recreation Organization Charts—Provi-
dence, R. I.

Public Recreation in Portland, Oregon, by C. P.
Keyser
Curling, an International Sport, by Irwin R. Dunnell
Better Times, January 1935

Recreation for the Young Job—Hunter, by Herbert J.
Seligmann

Scholastic Coach, January 1935

Care of an Outdoor Ice Hockey Rink, by \Vestcott
E. S. Moulton

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, February 1935
Hobbies for Boys, by Carolyn M. Heller

The Social Life of the School Child, by Ernest R.
Groves

PAMPHLETS

Annual Report of the Community Council of Branford,

Conn., 1934

Valentine Bulletin

Department of Public Playgrounds and Recreation,
Reading, Pa., 1935

Handcraft Manual, Prepared by Mildred Gilmore
State of Indiana, Emergency Education Division, 217
North Senate Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind.

The Junior Caravan (A section of the New History
Society)
132 East 65th Street, New York City

Annual Report of the Memorial Community Building——
Goldsboro, N. C., 1934

Youth Today

Proceedings of the Hearing and Conference Called
by the 1934 Mobilization for Human Needs. Com-

munity Chests and Councils, Inc., 1810 Graybar
Building, New York City. Price $.25.

Glimpses of Our National Parks
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

American Peoples Schools—Bulletin Number Four

Van Cortland Park Center, 67 Stevenson Place, New
York City "

A Child in the Midst of Democracy, by Frank S. Hickman
The Duke Endowment, Charlotte, N. C.

Annual Report of the Bureau of Recreation of Philadel-
phia, Pa., 1934

Annual Report of the Recreation Department of Austin,
Texas, 1934

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
   
    
   
 
  
     

EverWear Otters the Satest
Merry-Wave-Stride

Fully covered by patents which in—
clude the many exclusive safety fea-
tures, this Merry-Wave-Stride insures
complete safety to the children in your
parks and recreation grounds. Ever-
Wear Merry—Wave-Stride gives more
action and exercise than any piece of
equipment ever made.

Before you make the selection of any

new equipment. you owe it to your
children to install the safest equip-
ment . . . your choice can be no other

than EverWear’s Patented Stride. Ask
us for complete details.

Use Spring Rubber Safety
Seats For Your Swings

An ingenious ar-
rangement of rub-
ber and steel. pat-
ented by EverWear.
which eliminates
all the hazards of
former type swing
seats. This EverWear seat is soft. springy,
resilient, has remarkable safety features,
strength and durability. Priced low enough
to meet your budgets. Write us for details.

 

Our complete new catalog is
available without obligation.

Ask for it.

The EverWear Mtg. Co.
Springfield. Ohio, U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker

of playground. beach and pool apparatus: a
complete line of the SAFEST and most DURA-
BLE recreation apparatus made.

594

   

The Gemini/19
magazine

If you are interested in

The leadership of youth.

The swiftly changing methods in organized
camping.

The statements of leading thinkers on educa-
tion through camping.

Leadership iraining—Counsellor's Education.

Camp Programming—Administration.

Outdoor Sports and Activities.

New Games. Land and Water.

Swimming—Canoeing—Sailing.

Riding—Archery—Riflery.

Woodcraft—Indian Lore—Nature.

Arfscraf‘l—Dancing—Siunts.

Council Fires—Story Telling.

Then read the Camping Magazine regularly

, Send for a sample copy $2.00 a year.

Lane Hall, Ann Arbor. Mich.
- Dept. R

      
 

EDUCATIONAL METHOD

for MARCH

Special Editor: Bess Gooorxoourz
Assistant United States Commissioner of Education

EDUCATION FOR LEISURE

I. The Importance of DeveIOping Leisure-Time
Interests

Articles by JOHN W. STUDEBAKER and
KATHARINE LENROOT

Il. What the Schools Are Doing

Articles by HELEN K. MACKINTOSH. JANE A.
WHITE, BEN H. DARROW. ANGELA M.
BROENING. A. ADELE RUDOLPH. and
MARY HARDEN

Ill. Helps in Dereloping a School's Recreation
Program

Article by EUGENE T. LIES
Recent References. compiled by EDITH A.
WRIGHT

$3.00 a year
Membership dues, $4.00

This issue, 50 cents

DEPARTMENT OF SUPERVISORS AND

DIRECTORS OF INSTRUCTION
5'25 Wen l201h Street
New Yeti

 

GEORGE PIERCE BAKER

George Pierce Baker

In the death of Professor George Pierce
Baker on _lanuary 6, t935 the community rec-
reation movement lost a good friend. In the
course of Professor Baker's career of thirty-six
years at Harvard and eight at Yale he had
among his students many who became famous
playwrights. He was not too busy, however, to
give up his time to Community Service of
Boston in connection with the dramatic pro-
gram of that organization. Undoubtedly men
of Professor Baker’s type are to play a larger
and larger part in building the civilization of
the future.

Correlation oi Public and Private

Agencies
(Continued from rage .567)

14. Joint buying by summer camp managers.

15. Summer day camps.

16. Spot mapping of members of girls’ and boys' work
agencies to show geographical distribution and
therefore untouched or poorly touched sections of
the city.

1?. Relation of existing agencies to the problem of
prevention of delinquency."

The possibilities for joint study and action
are limited only by the vision and team play
of agency leaders.

Do we need to cooperate? Those who are
raising the money for our programs, whether
public or private, tell us we do. The public
must be awakened to our field as a whole as
they are to relief or health or education. The
scholars tell us the same thing. One of the
conclusions of a conference called by the De-
partment of Public Instruction of the State of
Michigan to consider the relation of the
schools to other character forming influences
in the community was "Executives have been
too much absorbed in promoting the programs
of their respective organizations. The child
participates as a member of many groups but
these groups function independently without
being conscious of the total of influences on
the child, or of the unmet needs in the child’s
experience.”

Prof. Lunrlberg of Columbia University is
quoted as saying, “The problem of leisure has
not, as yet, received serious consideration in
the social sciences. Recreation and the use of
leisure is at best regarded as a superficial in-
terest of the social dilcttante, and not a subject

TAKING PLAY INTO THE HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS 595

for serious philosophic thought or scientific
investigation. In its applied aspects, likewise,
we find recreation workers regarded at best
with amused toleration by social workers. This
attitude is not entirely unjustified, for recrea-
tion workers have their principles, techniques,
and procedures even less adequately formula-
ted and standardized than the other social
workers.”

These are challenges in practice and theory
that must be met together.

\Vhat we have in common—city recreation
departments, school departments, settlements,
Y’s, Sc‘outs, Camp Fire and others—His so much
greater and deeper than any of the distinctions;
what we have to interpret is so much more
vital to our civilization as a whole than in sec-
tions, that my plea is all for understanding,
cooperation and mutual ideals and objectives.
With such correlation we may indeed lead
toward a more abundant life for every citizen
of our country.

Taking Play Into the Highways
and Byways

(Confirmed from page 577)

slides, sand piles. and had more space for putting
on field events, baseball and mass games. These
lots had the same advantages in location as did
the street playgrounds as far as direct connection
with all the people of the neighborhood Was con—
cerned, with a wider range, as they were centers
of a community and not of a street or two. They
were also favored by having space for organized
team games and even leagues, with scheduled in-
terplayground contests, which gave the partici—
pants a feeling of being as important as the
“regulars.”

The lots were better adapted, too, for quiet
games and handcraft, as folding tables and benches
could bc used and stored in convenient buildings
which wcre gladly offered for that purpose. On
one lot the (lircctor reports: “I believe handcraft
was the most popular project with children of all
ages, from 5 to I4 in particular. They would will-
ingly spend the whole day at it, and it attracted
the attention of parents after objects made were
taken home. Quite a number of parents came to

see the work and made donations of materials. We

received numerous comments from the parents
and neighbors about the value of the playground

in giving the children a place to play and keeping

them from running about the streets and getting

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

BE READY

For the 1935 Season

with DIAMOND Official Pitching Horseshoes

and accessories. There's lteen enjoyment for
everyone in the heallhy exercise of horseshoe

pitching. The DIAMOND line is the favorite
of amateurs and professionals alilte. Malte

your plans NOW for the coming season.

Write for information

46|0 Grand Avenue, DuluthI Minn.

 

into mischief. Many of the mothers bring their
little ones to the sand-pile and either stay or some
of the older girls look after them. The children
are happy and enjoy the games. A great number
have not missed a day since we began, and are
already asking about next summer’s program.
Their greatest fear is there will be no playground
here next year."

But the values of these vacant lot playgrounds
were not restricted to parents and children. A
concrete proof of this is given by one of the super-
visors. He says: “When I first came here, I
noticed a group of from ten to twenty boys and
men from 17 to 30 years old, who hung around
the corners near the playground, and at times an—
noyed some of the neighbors by their roughness.
Several people approached me and wondered if I
could do somcthing about it. I tried allowing
them to use the basketball for an hour at a time.
Sometimes they played among themselves. Other
times against a younger team. They quieted down
considerably, and soon were helping instead of
hindering. They caused no trouble, and would
go peaceably when their timc was up.”

This lot was sponsored by the rector of a church
across the street, and on rainy days a large meet—

5m READING FOR FUN IN RURAL MISSISSIPPI

SUBSCRIBE $1.00 YEAR

THE CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY

A Jaurna! of Commanitg Religion
RICHARD E. SHIELDS. Editor

How to Unite Churches

Articles by writers of
The Community Church Movement

    
   
   
 
  

 

 

 

Vital News. Religious Digest

TWICE MONTHLY EXCEPT SUMMER
Published by

THE 00HMUHIIY 0HUHCH WO0KEHS,U.S.A.

77 West Washington Street. Chicago

 

ing room attached to the church was provided for
the groups, when crafts, singing, stories and quiet
games were carried on. So, “no matter what the
weather, the good fellows were all together,” and
equally good times were had “in sunshine or in
rain.”

Reading For Fun in Rural Mississippi
(Continued from page 580)

association leader, three teachers, a recreation

  

worker, three county reading rooms, one girl re-
serve leader, a man giving a Iiallowe’en party,
and two general readers. Already this year bor-
rowers have made use of the state book collection
t5.000 times and calls for books have been an-
swered from 250 different communities.

\Vhat the future of the library and recreation
projects in Mississippi will be, it is impossible to
foretell. Not enough recreation directors were
interviewed to know how they feel about the work
they are doing, but the librarians encountered are
definitely aiming at permanent book service. Lest
this should be regarded as purely in their own in-
terest, it should be noted that they are giving
hours of time which are not required and more
than they can afford from their slender resources
to develop the work they have undertaken.

Increased support for the state library commis-
sion at the next session of the state legislature
seems a definite possibility in view of the state-
wide response to the commission’s undertakings
and the friendliness of individual members of the
legislature. Corresponding local support seems
also probable in view of what is now being given.
The immediate need, of course, is for books to

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE

$1.00 a Year

SPECIAL OFFER FREE!

0 A set of six colored safety posters will be given
FREE with every new yearly subscription.

0 SAFETY EDUCATION is the only magazine
devoted entirely to child safety problems. The
material is based on seasonal activities and
consists of colored posters, graded lesson
plans, informational articles, short plays, stor-
ies, assembly programs, patrol news items. etc.

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
Om: PARK Avenue. New YORK

Enclosed find . ..
with the . issue.

$1.00 a Year

for which please send SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE beginning

Enclosed 6nd Sl.75 for SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE and the Special Playground Packet.

Name
Address
City and State

 

FOR A GOOD TIME—A “RIDICULOUS PARTY” 597

Keeping Up with the Joneses

may be important socially

But keeping up in Recreation and the allied fields of Health
and Physical Education is a professional necessity

Read the

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH and RECREATION

DIG

Condensations of the leading articles appearing in other
publications—conveniently boiled down for easy reading

EST

"An article a day: a dollar a year."

Send us a dollar (or ask us to bill you) for a year's subscription

The DIGEST
29 Exeter St.

Boston, Mass.

hold and strengthen the popular interest which
has been aroused until the gains which have been
made under this useful and desirable work relief
project can be permanently consolidated.

For a Good Time—a "Ridiculous

H
Party
(Continued from page 581)

them with “I’ve Been Working on the Levee.”
One of the men was called to jump the rope.
Two others were Opponents in a scooter race.
Ten others responded to a plea for an orchestra
and as they came forward each person was
handed an instrument from the first grade
rhythm orchestra equipment. They actually
played an encore. Two or three stunts had been
prepared the night before. Eight high school
teachers did a square dance and then invited
eight others to join and be their partners as
they repeated it. Seven others gave a “Hill
Billy” number and we called on Topsy and
Eva to sing the popular number by the same
name. They responded by trying to do a tap
dance to it.

Hot dogs, pumpkin pie and coffee were

 

served at the end of the prOgram, and the
party was voted, by the ninety teachers who
attended, a great success!

Musical Arts

(Continued from page 587)

you any number of incidents where the children
have learned to love the good music which at first
did not appeal to them. Our manner of presenta-
tion must then be relied upon to hold our groups,
bth the effort we know is worth while for we are
giving them music that will permanently enrich
their lives. If you do not leave people with some—
thing more than you found them with, of what
avail is the contact?

And so we in San Francisco are trying to teach
the gospel of good music until we have reached as
many people as our facilities will permit. We are
trying to make music a real democratic art ex-
pression and not one for the favored class alone.
,And as we offer a musical experience in our rec—
reational program it is one that can actually be
participated in; it is one that is educational as
well as recreational, and it is one that adds to the
character and enriches the lives of those with
whom we come in contact.

 

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

 

Children of the New Day

By Katherine Glover and Evelyn Dewey. D. Appleton-
Century Company, New York. $2.25.

Tms study began as an effort “to present some of the
trends and to interpret some of the thoughts and
facts brought together by the experts" of the Committees
for the White House Conference on Child Health and
Protection, held in \Vashington in November, 1930, and
the Medical Section Conference of the following Feb-
ruary. But the selection of facts and trends to be pre-
sented depends upon an educational point of view and a
discrimination which make of the book a basic philosophy
for the rearing of the whole child according to liberal
and progressive ideals. From the forward-looking title
to the last paragraph with its vision of "builders of a new
kind of world, bringing order out of confusion, and

beauty out of chaos." the authors have shown a poignant "

sympathy with children and a decided creed for the
building of environment for the utmost development.
Beginning with a presentation of the changing wor‘.
which faces the oncoming generation, the authors by
quotation. abstract, and analysis show the pattern of
growth and give principles for mental, physical, and
emotional deve10pment. Chapters on the Home, the Com-
munity. the School, and Recreational Needs and Oppor-
tunities round out the discussion. Readers of Recreation
will find in the chapter called "On Their Own: Play and
Adventure" a warm, almost indignant. challenge of a
world so organized that even play is intruded upon.

The Choice of a Hobby

Compiled by Anne Carroll Moore for Compton’s Pictured
lineyclolmlia. 1". E. Compton and Company, Chicago,
Illinois. Free.

my named "A Springboard for Personal Adventure."

this catalogue of books on hobbies gives a unique
descriptive list of books offering inspiration and guidance
to hobby riders and hobby hunters. Many types of
hobbies are listed from stamps to camping.

Good Reading

National Council of Teachers of English. 211 West 68th
Street. Chicago. Illinois. $.15.

Tnaac are listed in this pamphlet and briefly described

900 books significant for present day readers. Most
of them are obtainable for one dollar or less. There are
three interesting special lists: (1) 100 outstanding books
of world literature; (2) 50 books most often recom-
mended on the reading lists of 55 colleges; (3) 50 books
most frequently mentioned on lists of favorite books from
1.638 students in 53 colleges.

503

The Art of Walking

Edited by Edwin Valentine Mitchell. Loring and Mussey,
New YOrk. $1.75.

AN anthology on walking, this little volume contains

essays on walking by such authorities as Charles
Dickens, Christopher Morley, William Hazlitt. George
Gissing, and Dr. John Finley. It is a delightful compila-
tion of Opinions and experiences about walking real and
imaginary, and walks in city and country, hills and plains.

Try Something New

Th; Girls' Friendly Society, 386 Fourth Avenue. New
ork.

Hts attractive series of program suggestions is de-

signed primarily for Girls’ Friendly members and
other groups of girls but it will be helpful for all rec-
reation workers. There are four pamphlets in this “Try
Something New" series: Hare a Dramatic Workshop;
Make Reading Your Hobby; Inexpensive Handcrafts;
Games for Grams-Ups. The cost of each section is 10
cents; the four sections together may be secured for
35 cents.

Hiker's Guide

By Ben Solomon. Leisure League Little Book Number 15.
Leisure League of America, 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York. $.25.

IN the 96 pages of this illustrated booklet has been
packeda vast amount of practical knowledge of hiking.
The subject headings tell just how practical the sugges-
tions offered are: Before We Start; What Do We Wear;
0» the Trail; When Do We Eat; Special Hikes; Trail
Safety and Health. The appendix contains map sources
and food check lists. Every recreation library should
have this booklet, which is. in every sense of the word.
a real guide.

Ten Plays From 0. Henry

Dramatized by Addison Geery Smith. Samuel French,
New York. $1.50.

IN dramatizing these plays for amateur theatricals, Mr.
Smith has tried in every way to retain to the fullest
the spirit of 0. Henry. The characters are delineated as
0. Henry desribed them and much of the dialogue is that
of the original, although the reQuirements of stage pre-
scntation made it necessary to alter some of the situations
and settings. The staging of the plays. Mr. Smith points
out. should not be difficult. Simplicity is the keynote and
a cyclorama. screens or a neutral background will suffice.

NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 599

Diversions and Pastimes.

Compiled by R. M. Abraham. E. P. Dutton & Com-
pany, New York. $1.75.

Many recreation workers are doubtless familiar with
the author’s previous book, Winter Nights Entertain-
ments, published in 1932. The second book on the subject
of entertainments comes in response to a demand for
“more of the same kind.” So here are baffling card tricks,
paper folding puzzles, coin and match tricks, string tricks,
knots and splices, games of knack and agility, problems
and a variety of entertaining diversions.

Modern Housing.

By Catherine Bauer. Houghton Mifflin Company,
Boston, Massachusetts. $5.00.

“Modern Housing,” states the author in her introduc-
tion, “provides certain minimum amenities for every
dwelling; cross ventilation for one thing; sunlight, quiet
and a pleasant outlook from every window; adequate
privacy, space and sanitary facilities; children’s play
space adjacent. And linally it will be available at a price
which citizens of average income or less can afford.”
That the United States is almost totally lacking in dwell-
ings which answer this description while Europe since the
war has erected at least 6,000,000 dwellings which by and
large constitute modern housing is a sad commentary
on our failure to plan. With the assistance of the Car-
negie Corporation, Miss Bauer has studied the iinest
examples of European housing in the light of their ap—
plication to the United States, prefacing her study with
a detailed survey of the failures and accomplishments
of the nineteenth century and the pre-war era. The book
is particularly timely in view of the important low price
housing projects being considered by the government.
Over 200 illustrations accompany the text.

Living and Learning.

American Association for Adult Education, 60 East
42nd Street, New York City.

This “brief aid to the seeker after adult education”
is designed for the use of the individual who wishes
to continue his education and for club leaders. It tells in
concise form where to go for help in planning working
programs, outlines the aids offered by national agencies
and gives briefly the information everyone should have
about the American Association for Adult Education,
together with excerpts from a few articles which have
appeared in the Journal of Adult Education. A single

c0py of this *booklet may be obtained free. Prices on
quantity orders are--—2 to 24, $.10; 25, $2.00; 50, $4.00.

Linoleum Art.

By John E. Williams. New Jersey State Home Print
ShOp, Jamesburg, New Jersey. $.25.

This booklet was printed as a project lesson in printing
and gives the procedure used lb_v the class on the cutting
and printing of linoleum blocks. It has been written
with the idea of placing in the hands of instructors and
students simple material on this new art. It suggests the
tools and materials to be used and describes the step by
step processes involved.

Volunteer Values.

By Ruth M. Dodd. Family Welfare Association of
America, 130 East 22nd Street, New York. $.30.

While this booklet has to do with volunteer service in
the family welfare held, there are suggestions on the
contrihution of the volunteer and ways in which he may
be recruited and serve which will be of help to the
recreation field.

Christmas and the New Year.

By Nina B. Lamkin. Samuel French, 25 West 45th
Street, New York City. $.50.

In compiling this program material from many dif-
ferent lands, Miss Lamkin has had two things in mind—
iirst, that the material shall be worth while from a cul-
tural standpoint, and second, that it will have large
enough variety to satisfy the many program needs of the
holiday season. In this small book she has brought
together a wealth of material, including quotations,
customs, music, folk lore, stories, poems and deiinite
programs. A number of very valuable bibliographies
are given.

Arbor Day—Bird Day.

Bulletin 82. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, De-
partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg.

Many of our states have set aside one day a year
to celebrate as Arbor Day or Bird Day. To aid school
and community groups in arranging prOgrams the De-
partment of Public Instruction at Harrisburg, Penn—
sylvania, has issued‘an attractive pamphlet suggesting
activities, programs and source materials. The program
suggestions have been adapted to the various grades.

The Younger Set.

Issued by McCall’s Magazine, Dayton, Ohio. $.10.

This attractive booklet contains suggestions for parties
which young people in their teens will enjoy. Six parties,
most of them dress-up ones, are described.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY. First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILIAn BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUEEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, I... I.. N. Y.
MR5. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \VaSh.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.
MR5. CHARLES \'. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston. Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. II. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.
OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia. Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEv, Augusta. Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MR5. JAMES W. WADsWORTH, JR., Washington, D'. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
Joan G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
MRS. WILLIAM H. VVOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

