Emma“? Collar. Lian

1“

Al"

While Rome Burns ’

T A TIME when Hitler re-arms, and Mussolini marches toward Abyssinia; when a radio battle
A rages with General Johnson, Senator Long and Father Coughlin before the micr0phone; with
farm land withdrawn from cultivation, with factories running part time, with men out of
work—with the relief problem pressing—is this a time for music, drama, crafts—for enjoying

nature; for working on problems related to abundant living? Are recreation workers fiddling while
Rome burns?

 

There never has been a time when work on “abundant living" was more fundamental
than now, for now is a time when sanity of nations and individuals is important. This is not a
good time to be r1d1ng fast in every direction. A sense of direction, a sense of values is doubly im-

portant now. There is no gain just now in hysterically running fifty yards with the ball— in the
wrong direction!

Empires have risen and fallen. Dynasties and dictators have_ come and gone. But people—

ordinary people—have gone on living; there have been values such in literature, in music, in art, in
athletics, in comradeship, in the arts of human intercourse, that the world has not completely com-
mitted suicide. There has seemed to be enough of value in the world to justify going on living.

Security in itself would be an empty victory in a barren, dull, heavy, ugly, colorless world.
It is victory in real living, min real wages of life itself that counts,—a chance to “live” for the farmer,
for the worker in the mine, in the factory., Two chickens in every pot and three automobiles in
every garage do not make a Promised Land. There is dynamic explosive power in making life itself
rich and fruitful, in abolishing poverty of life, Sharing of real living is important.

In a world where we have so much cotton and corn that we plough it under, in an age of
abundance where we kill our pigs, close our factories because they produce more than laborers can
buy—we dare not say that we are too poor to provide opportunities for swimming, skating, singing,
reading and all that men gladly do to stretch their souls and their bodies. In a world where college-
trained men beg for a chance to work we cannot say that our country as a whole cannot afford to
set aside 80,000 additional education—recreation—Lleisure time workers to give all communities the
opportunities for recreation, for living that the best communities have already provided for themselves,

Even tribes of American Indians whom we designated as savages in an age of scarcity set aside
men to serve as “Delight Makers.” In an age of plenty such that we stop our production, it would be
ridiculous to say that We have not the wealth for music, drama, _beauty, Once let the world have
adequate beauty of action, motion, sound, drama, nature, literature, and all other problems will be-
come easier because frustration, disillusionment, disappointment, disgust, will be removed from the
center and will be replaced by a sense of fulness, richness, color, power, joy——;so_ that the World no
longer seems to hang stagnant.

We have been so blinded by men’s cry for bread that we have not seen that the real cry is for
something far more vital—~—-a cry for beauty of life.

Men growing Up knowing what hunger is—when they speak their deepest thought—tell you
that great as was the need for food—food alone was not enough. Man is not the kind of animal
whose hunger is satisfied by bread, Romance, adventure, beauty, comradeship, share in living must
there be—as well as bread— to satisfy the hunger of the human spirit, to give enduring security.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

APRIL I935

 

533,677

Binder and Amatgamated

 

On the Grandstand

By
CHARLES J. STOREY
New York City

word as “spectator.” He has generally to be

chained down if you want him to watch any
sort of active game. His whole being is against
looking at an activity in which he is not allowed
to take part. I suppose a child does not know any-
thing about vicarious participation in any activity.
The spectator attitude is essentially that of the
adult, who from either innate laziness or some
other reason is capable of watching the most active
and interesting sports without any desire to be in
the midst of them. A child who sees other chil-
dren playing nearby will fidget and resist paternal
restraint in order to be among them. His entire
body moves in excitable rhythm in accord with
the actions he beholds. The young animal thinks
with his muscles and he will not be content until
he is exercising them in a game.

Watching other people in activity is apparently
an adult entertainment. It is enjoyable and recrea-
tive. Look at a group of men in easy attitudes
watching the laborers digging up the street. The
scene is certainly familiar to them. They have
watched it many times before, but it still has the
power to give a reposeful ease and a sort of con-
tentment. Early Americans used to gather in a
ring to watch a dog light in front of the general
store. Their descendants fill a stadium and watch
a prize light. Seventy thousand thunder at a foot-
ball game. Thousands iill the grandstands and
bleachers at professional baseball. They go for
the fun of it, yet there is much discussion about
the relative value of watching instead of partici-
pating in recreation.

IN A SMALL boy’s vocabulary there is no such

Witnessing Spectacles An Old Custom

Going in crowds to witness spectacles and
sports is no modern recreation. The ancient Greeks
and Romans did it. A glance at the noble remains
of the Colosseum at Rome shows what provision

Watching, instead of doing, is not

a recreative sin, but it sometimes
leads to a badly balanced diet!
Why take all your fun vicariously?

they made for the forty or fifty thousand people
who once filled that amphitheatre. Baiting Chris-
tians in the arena was only a small portion of the
Roman outdoor sports program, for the Roman
politicians understood thoroughly how to further
their own ends by using the natural craving for
recreation in their people. And their offerings
were unusually cruel. There is a difference not
only in the kinds of sport offered today but also
in the fact that an infinitely greater proportion of
of the populace regularly attend indoor and out-
door theatrical and sport entertainment.

\Vithout boring the reader with statistics of the
number of theaters, movies and stadiums in the
country, you may take my word for it that there
are quite a lot of them. They range in size from
the intimate theatre and movie house of less than
three hundred seats to athletic bowls of seventy
to one hundred thousand capacity. No doubt the
growth of a city dwelling age with its millions of
pe0ple in sedentary occupations is responsible in
part for the increase of opportunities to watch
something rather than to do something in recrea-
tive hoUrs.

The greatest number of spectators are gathered
at the four major spectacles—the theatre, the
movies, professional baseball and college football.
Professional ice hockey, boxing, wrestling and
even professional tennis draw huge crowds. Col-
lege football is included in these commercial rec-
reations because as far as the spectator is con-
cerned it has all the earmarks 0f commercialism.
The visitor pays a good price for admission, re-
ceiving no extra benefits, while what are usually
considered the principal aims of athletics—the
enjoyment of playing the game and the physical
development of the players—are lost sight of
under the tremendous gate receipts and the pro-
fessionalized teams.

4 ON THE GRA.’VD.S'T.-l.’\’l)

Why do so many people go to see things rather
than do things? And db they receive the same
recreative benefits in watching as in doing?

Of course we know that sitting on the grand-
stand watching twenty—two active college men
play football is a stimulating and engrossing oc—
cupation. There is nothing quite like the thrill of
a well-played baseball game between professional
teams who play with exactitude and rhythm. And
aside from the cultural aspects of some theatrical
performances, these spectacles, as well as the omni-
present movies, furnish a release from the ten-
sions of work or care which their very popularity
attests.

Sitting on the grandstand—that is, watching
instead of doing—is not a recreative sin. It is do-
ing that and nothing more which comes in for
adverse criticism. Students of recreation deplore
both the tendency of many people to get all their
active recreation vicariously on the grandstand or
in the theatre and the all-too-shrewd commercial
interests which capitalize this human indolence by
inventing and continually presenting new specta-
cles for the inert looker-on.

The confirmed baseball fan, if he never plays
ball, is undoubtedly a dissipator in recreation. He
is getting his recreation in one form only with-
out any of the accompanying pleasures of per—
sonal performance. His recreative meal is all
vegetables and no meat.

Not Prohibition But Temperance!

It is the inert spectator who we may surmise
is not getting one hundred per cent recuperation.
His inertness may come from being continuously
and only a spectator in his leisure moments. \Ve
don't need prohibition of “spectatoritis” but rather
temperance. Continual reliance on being enter-
tained and amused, whether it be in the grand-
stand or in the seats of a theatre, is intemperate
and recreative excess. We must have an auditence
for our theatre whether its players are profes-
sional or amateur. And we should have spectators
at our ball games and athletic events. But we do
not want the same audience, the same spectators,
all the time. I once heard a conductor on the
Pennsylvania Railroad say that his run ended
every afternoon about two o’clock and he could
go to a ball game, which he did. Well, he was
just drinking too much “spectatoritis.” He found
some recuperation, of course, in thus enjoying his
favorite and apparently only diversion. But he
had an unbalanced diet.

People often choose their recreations in the
same fashion that careless housewives buy food
for the family. They purchase the products near-
est at hand or widely advertised.

W'hat Americans may need is a little more sales
resistance. It has been said that when the news-
papers discovered that sports were news, the glori—

(Continued on page 41)

 

The Japanese National Game: 60

By J. P. BOWLES

1TH rules
Wsimpler than

checkers
but with possibili-
ties greater than
chess, the Japan-
ese game of Go is
a sort of eighth
wonder of the
world. Achild can
probably be tanght
quicker to begin
playing Go than
Checkers. Dr.
Emanuel Lasker,
for many years
world's chess champion,
concedes the superiority
of Go to chess.

Honinbo is chosen, he is adopted as the son of
the old Honinbo; thus the name is perpetuated.
Honinbo Shusai, the twenty-first Honinbo, has
never been defeated since receiving the title.
It is believed that Go Sei Gen, the young
Chinese Go revolutionary, will become the next
Honinbo. Go Sei Gen has upset the .Go tradi-
tions of centuries with his opening play. Honinbo
beat him by only two points: but he is an old man
and Go Sei Gen has not reached his maiority.

The Equipment and
Object

All that is required,
besides two players, is a
“checkerboard” with
nineteen lines each way,
a bowlful of white and
one of black “checkers”
or stones, as they are
called. Lacking these, Go can be played with pen-
cil and ruled paper.

All there is to the play is the capture of terri-
tory by placing stones in unbroken lines around
it—incidentally capturing opponent’s stones by a
similar process of surrounding them. When
neither player sees advantage in continuing, prison-
ers are exchanged and placed in home territory,
thereby reducing the area captured. The player
Whose stones surround the most vacant inter-
sections wins. There is only one arbitrary rule,
applying to a situation called ko and necessary
to forestall a sort of stalemate and a drawn
game.

 

Honinbo Shusai and two professional women Go
players of Japan in conventional opening play.
The name Honinbo is conferred upon the cham-
pion. He does not receive a numbered degree
but is called Meiiin, the Master. When a new is sometimes hollowed

The standard
Japanese Go board
is about nineteen
by twenty inches
and about six in-
ches thick. (Boards
for use in the
United States are
likely to be only
about one inch
thick.) It is usu-
ally made of a
medium—hard, re-
sonant, yellow
wood, such as
yew, cedar or
white pine. To increase
resonance the under side

out, so that the Go board,
tradition slyly suggests,
may also serve to hold
the dismembered head of
a. kibitzer!

Centered on the upper '
surface is the “checker-
board.” Nineteen lines
each way, about seven-
eighths'of an inch apart,
form 361 intersections. As the squares are not
used—only the intersections—they are not dis-
tinguished from the board proper by any other
marking. The nine intersections of every fourth,
tenth and sixteenth lines are pointed up with tiny
(lots, which serve as handicap points.

The‘ stones are discs, convex on both sides.
about seven—eighths of an inch in diameter and
nearly one—quarter inch thick in the center. As
made in Japan, the white stones are of pearl shell,
pleasant to touch; the black stones of slate, turn-
ing a luminous jet after continued use. The
meticulous Go stone maker provides 180 white
and I81 black stones, one for each of the 361 in- ‘

5

6 THE JAPANESE NATIONAL GAME: GO

tersections, but seldom does a game require more
than 150 of each. \Vhite and black stones are kept
separate in each of two wooden bowls about six
inches in diameter and four inches high, of which
the covers, removed and inverted, serve during
play to hold prisoners.

Rules for Play

Play begins with the board clear and the stones
in their respective bowls. Starting with black,

3
O
'0

o b #5
\llllhhdhd
arvvullall
, Ilitlnllf?
uslhlililf%p
! ,IIHHIM
+ta===:===.
£plnf¥¥¥¥"’
O

      
   
  
 

        
  
    
 

    
  
   
 
  
 
   

19
18
n '

16'

    
  

   

Ilh

 

  

\
lib-ll
Ila-ll!

  
   
  

        

1'

13
12

ll

Ii
I

   
 

    
 
 
  

      
   

 
          
       

   
   

     
 

1
1|

:3

  
 

     

'l.

   
  

   

  

      
     
 
     
  

  
   
   
   
  
 

    
     

   
 
 
 
  

    
   
   

 

I #vv¢%
43 dké¥¥¥¥h
lhqg““¢+‘¢

5+§l
,AHIIILLLLANLI

    

   
 

   

o ‘if‘llf
bcdefghlklmno

DIAGRAM A
Diagram A illustrates prime positions.

I
a

players take turn placing one stone at a time on
any intersection not occupied by a stone, except
on a certain intersection on a certain play in a
situation called ko. Once a stone is played, it is
never moved to another intersection.

A typical mannerism is to fork out a stone from
the bowl between index finger fingernail and third
finger, not in affectation but because this is the
easiest way to handle it; then to slap it down on
the resounding board (whereby, it has been
-hinted, the slow player may awaken his oppon-
ent) ; then to slide it delicately to the chosen in-
tersection.

IQ?

I9

an
,llldlllllllllllll
.qynllqrinllnqp::u

. _

.0

   

 
  
   

:4. ll
agil-
cpl!

p q

   
  
   
   

 

.+

‘II
I

.V

.V

H'

.1 ,7,
$1,,
«a 4

Regarding the board as an island, with outer
lines as waterfront boundary and corner areas as
peninsulas, obviously the corner areas are easiest
to capture by surrounding, since few stones are
required to complete the partitioning off of terri—
tory already partly surrounded or partitioned off
on two sides by the waterfront boundaries. Hence
early play usually takes place in corner areas, and
the first stone is usually placed on an intersection
three or four lines from each of two boundary
lines (including boundary lines in
the counting), as in a in the ac-
companying Diagram A. The op-

q
M
.-

     
   

‘ ' ‘9 ponent usually places the second
13 stone similarly in another corner
v .17 area, and so on with third and

    
     
  

fourth plays.

         
  

I  Since the sides are next easiest
' to capture, the following play is
 M sometimes on other intersections
++ l3 three or four lines from an outer

12 or boundary line. But Go is a
++ H fighting game and most players
*+ 10 seem to favor challenging an op-

ponent for possession of a corner
or a share thercof. This precipi-
tates a fight.

The accompanying Diagrams,
B, C and D, record and illustrate
a game between Karl Davis Ro-
binson and Fritz Kastilan. It is
a naive experiment in the open-
ing play strategy of the yOUng
Chinese genius Go Sei Gen.

Diagram D shows the fin-
ished game. White has captured
the following black stones: seven
around f—16; they are conceded
captured.

Black has captured the follow-
ing white stones: k-14, 1-14, q~15 and q-16. Other
captured stones are shown on Diagrams B and C.

\Vhen these stones and others previously taken
prisoner are returned to their own home territory,
it is found that \Vhite wins by sixteen points. The
beginner will do well to replay this game slowly,
trying to understand the reasons for every play.

A territory is definitely captured when the
stones surrounding it cannot be captured by the
opponent, as in Diagram A: positions b, c, d‘ and
e. To understand this it is necessary to know how
the opponent’s stones can be captured and the con-
ditions under which they cannot be captured.

g
S I

I’

  

aillll.
all-halal
:llllqyjl

egilllll

THE JAPANESE NATIONAL GAME: GO

lmnop I

 

qrs

       
    
   
     
           
 
 

Ill-gag:

15

  

  
  

}:I%£3ll£%dllllllllln
“Inqgllnagsllllllll,
,oqggglgglmglqgllqplu,
.qp lllllhllhllll‘l,
,IIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIII,
,lqplll.alu1lllllll,
,ILIMIIIIIIQEIIIIII,

   
      
          
         
 

  

Q?¥§$ll§

.. )
I‘IIIIII

         

DIAGRAM B

A stone is captured when all adjacent intersec-
tions are occupied by opponent’s stones, as in f,
g and h. A group of stones is captured when all

'39:?
pqpr

was

qmpwatikm

LIIIIIII

klmnOpqrsl

iquqgl

77 
assay-l,
IIIIIII,

  
 

 
 

19 Stones l to l00. No. |' at r-l7l is an un-;

‘8 conven+ional opening playl excepl' lo the
17 followers of Go Sei Gen. No. l4I al g--|6I
is necessary. for otherwise Black has this

‘6 side of lhe board enlire. No. 53, al c-3,
an unlorunal'e error. A play at e-4 would
14 have preserved Black's threat of a large

 13 territoryl necessarily con‘l'esl'ed by White.

stones or the white stone at t-Iz? The
answer depends on whether the last stone
played was a black stone or the white
stone at t-12. If the last stone played was
a black stone, then the white stone at t—IZ
has just been captured and is to be taken
5 off the board by Black before White may
play. If the last stone played was the
white stone at t—12, then all the black
stones have just been captured and are

I to be taken off the board by White before
Black may play. Neither of these plays

is a suicide play, because the removal of

the stones captured as the completion of

the play saves the last stone played from being

intersections adjacent to the stones of the group

are occupied by opponents stones, as in q.

As soon as a stone or group of stones is

actually so surrounded and thus captured,
it is taken off the board by the capturing ‘9

player and kept in his custody until the 18 +

end of the game. Therefore it is obvious ‘7 +
that the last stone played in q was a white 16 ’+ '
stone, for Black would not have played a 15 
stone in such a way as to complete the 14 9 ©
capture of his own group. i '
The last white stone having been play-

0
ed in q. \Vhite takes off the board all the n  +
black stones in q before Black plays in 10 ' 
his the next turn.  

Another example of capture is k.
Which is captured: the group of black

Stones |0| to 200. The black sl'ones around

f-lb are virtually conceded as lost. as Black
cannol' form a wall around two separate com-
~par+menls before While closes in and caplures.

7r-

obcdelgh,’

#—

O
+++

0
¢*

Ah!
1!!
I.

‘
+

+‘+'++
+.+'+'
%«

*

+
3+
+
9+

,, vet:
, asgsev’

+ i;
o ..
get

41?.

+

i ' thglfiil
7 ‘ §.if\"
o %§f‘lt

##-

.+ till

.+ +nw®+

4 ++§+
Q»

0
o:
5%
5
'l
1'
‘i
+

DIAGRAM C

lmno

151':-
,saiarul

f S

A

W
A‘
I

J'
g .

f.
+

wake,

'+

9

A
‘III

A:
1.2

‘III

6*

N

i"’

R
5.
q
i"- n

e?
+

+—
+

5f

]

%»
+s¢
{y
o

y
E)
9‘:

§
%F

ii

4%
av'
+

6
9

a
III
:I

‘35

4
I

L£9

3
f

-—

O
’

Q»

15
I
I

3@

II

‘0

9’

+
.,,+
Il+

a»
_E.
®«s

#
4
¢
f$
IL}
I

automatically captured and subject to removal by
the opponent prior to his, the next play. If, how—
ever, any of the white stones other than that at

—a_.n_o
Noon

UIO‘

w:

u—I_a
0d

8 THE JAPANESE NATIONAL GAME: GO

t-12 had been missing, the last stone played could
not have been \Vhite’s at t—12. '
Although a player must completely surround
and capture the stones of an opponent before he
may take them off the board during the game, at
the end of the game he is entitled to take off the
board all of opponent’s stones which cannot be
saved in territory captured by himself. For ex-
ample, in position c Black need not play at k-Ig
in order eventually
to capture the white

tersection and captures all the black stones. Such
a situation, called seki, is left as is and neither
player gets credit for the two points of territory
at a-7 and a-II.

Now for the one arbitrary rule of play, called
the rule of k0, as in m, n and p. Given the situa—
tion in m, it is Black’s play. Should Black place a
stone on m-I4, he would thereby capture and re-
move the white stone at 1-14. In the absence of

rule of k0, White
might then on his

the next play place
19 another stone at 1-14
13 and capturethe
,7 bl a c k stone just
placed at m-I4, and
so on indefinitely.
Similarly with the

stone at 1-19. The o b c d a f g h i k

I
white stone at 1-19 ,9 ,_ , _ _L_ _7 m ‘ M
is regarded as dead ,8 . . . . 
r++.+++¢, s

 
   
 
 
  

   
  
  
 
   
 
  

  
      
  
 
  

       
   

  
   

I!!!
lr,+1r, ,,
tilll|¢i¥ ,5
+.+.«llr+,++ ,,

and, at the end of ,7  , 
the game, Black '6 
may take it off the 15 
board as prisoner. 

      
  
 

   

   
    
 

    

     
     
      
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
  

          
    

 

          
  
  
  
     

    
    
     
 
    
  
   
  
 
    
       
   
  

 

   

     
  
  
  
   

    
   
    

    
        
   

   
       
   
     

  
   
      
   
 

would have to place
stones on r—Ig'and
t-19. But White
may not play at both
intersections at
once, and to play on
either is suicide.

stone may not be
captured on the fol-
lowing play unless
other s t o n e s can

3 also be captured
III. .

2 With the same lay.
III. p

1 Thus,if Black plays

Accordingly it k at 111-14, \Vhite may
follows thatagroup not play at 1-14 on
of stones is safe when it DIAGRAM D his the following play.
surrounds territory which Siones 20' +0 '34- FINEShF-‘d game- BEN" has This gives Black an 0p-
the opponent cannot in- surmunded 66 '"lerse‘ilwns and five Pr'5°"er5' portunity to make his the

vade without being cap- :Nhl’re. has surrogadeq 78 m’rersechons .and following play at 1-14 and
, , en prisoners. White wans by seventeen pom’rs. , ,,
tured. ThIS is so when the so ‘close the ko and

   
   
      

It now becomes 1:  ‘3 ko situations at n
apparent why black '2  v  I2 and p.
stones in b, c, d and  The rule of ko
e cannot be captur- :(l)  I; provides thatastone
ed. Usmg e as an  which has Just com—

° ° C. O  O O 9
example, White, in  + pleted the capture
order to capture,   8 of an opponent’s
+' 5 I

v
0+
idi+
+1

0
+
6+

#

5.

?«

+
3* 
o+e+
e*o+

+ +
o o
é’

  

+°¢

      
    
 

   
    

   
        
   

   

    
   
    

1
’+

+
'+

+

‘4

       
   
    

+

,+
we
“a

Opqrsl

C C
oi+
’+
+
_ £6

         

 

  

—mwh-uo~\1a>~o
.5
I

3.
l

at”

elgh]

O
0"
n

. enough to warrant giving Black a one-stone
group definitely surrounds

two separate territories

and tentatively so when

the group’s player cannot be prevented by plays
of his opponent from dividing the territory -sur-
rounded into two separate definitely surroundecl
territories.

There is a certain condition, called seki, under
which invaders of a surrouncled territory cannot
capture or be captured, as in s. If White plays on
either a-7 or a—II, Black plays on the other inter-
section and captures that white stone and those at
a—8, a—9 and a-Io and is safe. If Black plays on
either a—7 or a—II, \V'hite plays on the other in—

handicap after two such victories.

“win” the ko. If the win-
\ning of the ko is, however,
sufficiently important to
White, White will make his interim play else-
where so threatening to .Black that Black may
chose to answer it instead of closing the ko. Then,
and only then, White may play at 1—14. Similarly,
Black may contest the ko, and so on until all po-
tential plays sufficiently threatening are exhausted.

So much for the one arbitrary rule of play.
There are several rules of courtesy, not all of
which, however, are likely to be observed in the
United States. But it is ever obligatory, as a rule
of courtesy, to give warning when one makes a

THE JAPANESE NATIONAL'GAME: GO 9

play such that on his follow-
ing play he can completely sur-
round, capture and take off the
board one or more of oppon-
ent's stones. Itois customary to
give this warning by saying
the Japanese word “atari,”
similar to the “check” or
“guardez” in chess.

Handicapping is provided
for by allowing Black a given
number of plays before White
begins. These plays must be
made. however, in prescribed order on prescribed
intersections, nine of which are d-4, d—10, d—16;
k-4, k-Io, k-16; q-4, q-10, q—16. Altogether, at
least seventeen degrees of handicap are provided
for. In practice, nine are the limit.

\Vith not more than nine stones of handicap, a
master and a passing fair player can play together
with equal- chance of success. It is one of the
beauties of Go that such handicapping does not, as
in chess, spoil the game for either player. Games
rarely end in a draw. And it is significant that,
through handicapping, degrees of ability are mea—
surable to a fraction of a degree of handicap.

The History of Go

Of the origin of Go we know not which, if any,
of the hoary legends be true. It is casually re-
ferred to in a Chinese writing of about 1000 BC.
Certain Chinese classics date it prior to 2300
BC. It is said to have been invented by a Chinese
emperor or an aide to strengthen the weak mind
of the emperor’s son. It is believed to have been
introduced into Japan between 700 and 800 AD.
\Vhereas China is the mother, Go properly belongs
to Japan by adoption. While the rules have been
altered little, the present marvelous development
of tactics and strategy is exclusively Japanese.

When Shakespeare was hitch-hiking to London,
Japanese players with a reputation—even monks,
farmers, trades people, regardless of social status
—were being summoned before the royal presence
to “do their stuff,” either to give the imperial play-
boys a stiff workout or to demonstrate their skill
against one another.

Then Honinbo Sansha, spiritual ancestor of a
line of masterful Honinbo, opened a private Go
school. Hideyoski, a famous general, founded the
first Go college. His successor, Iyeyasu, super-
ceded it in 1603 with a sort of national Go college,
subsidized, which lasted until 1865. Honinbo

"It is written in the Wu Ts'ah Tsu that
among the playthings of modern and
ancient times. there is nothing more
Next to wine and
women it leads men astray. If they
think it difficult even village boys and
common people can play it very skill-
fully. but if it be thought very easy
even the wisest and most intelligent,‘
though they investigate it thoroughly
through generations.'may not acquire

it correctly."-—From The Game of
Go, by Arthur Smith.

remote than Go.

Sansha was the first Dean,
with a princely retainer of
land and rice. Many of the
ranking players were salaried
professors. The alumni went
forth as strolling players, set-
tling down where they fancied
as teachers, in security and
honor.

At the fall of the Shogunate
in 1868, the national Go col-
lege closed its doors. And for
a decade the fascination of
Occidental innovations seems to have lured some
attention from Go. Around 1880, however, there
seems to have been a reaction against foreign in-
terests and Go returned to popular favor.

For centuries Go has been the national game of
Japan—of the public, including children. Yet it
enjoys the reputation of being the game of
Princes, scholars and war lords. While Japanese
children play Go as ours play marbles, Go is the
darling of officialdom and of high society. It is
quite the thing—sort of “horsey,” let us say. And
to play Go well is a far more essential part of be—
ing a gentleman than to play bridge well in this
country. But, whereas the public plays both Go
and Shoghi (Japanese chess), aristocrats play
only Go.

Go has been played by Americans in the United
States for a generation. Among the pioneers are
Karl Davis Robinson, proprietor of The Photo-
graphic Research Laboratory, Lee Foster Hart-
man, editor of Harper’s Magazine,“ W. D. Witt
of Philadelphia, a bibliophile, and Edward Lasker,
chess expert. Mr. Hartman and Mr. Robinson
have had translated and have edited Japanese GO
classics. Mr. Lasker has just published an intro-
ductory history and manual of the game. Mr.
Robinson, as the foremost American authority, is
preparing a comprehensive treatise, based largely
on his twenty-year collection of Go literature and
correspondence with the Japanese masters, to
which the author of this article expresses in~
debtedness.

Various groups in New York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore and Princeton have developed consid—
erable skill. Since the formation of the American
Go Association by Mr. Robinson, isolated players
are being discovered all over the United States,
clamoring for information as to where to find
fellow-players. The number of new players is

(Continued on page 42.)

Heigh-ho for a Merry Spring!

is so deep and so in need

of expression as that we
feel on a fresh May morning when the fields
and trees are growing into full, radiant life
again. Then, if ever, is a time for a festival. But
that word of happy erstwhile simple mean-
ing has come to mean big choruses, a sym-
phony orchestra, soloists, much expense, or
other things difficult to achieve. Without be-
littling these great things or. the possibility of
achieving even these, We could have in every
community a Spring festival, and others to fol—
low it, that would be easy and inexpensive to
produce, enlist many people, and be as delight-
ful and possibly as stimulating toward the best
kinds of musical, dance, dramatic and other
artistic activities as anything could be.

Such a festival was held during the recent
New York State Farm and Home Week at
Ithaca, and it was so successful and so readily
adaptable to any community or neighborhood,
rural or urban, that many a recreation leader
may wish to know what it was and how it
was done.

Though there might have been a blizzard
outside the auditorium 0n the day it was done,
it was a Spring festival with all the color, sing-
ing, dancing and other gayety that we associate

HARDLY ANY other delight

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

with that time of bright new
life. This was done in order
that many of the several
thousand men and women gathered for the
Week from all parts of the State might see how
they could have such a celebration of the Spring
in their own communities. It was all prepared
in less than three days. On Tuesday morning
no one who was to take part in it knew what
he or she was to do in it, but 0n,Thursday
afternoon eleven groups of people—I35 persons
in all—were active on the stage, a new unison
chorus of 80 sat amidst the audience near the
piano to lead in the singing. An audience of
about 2,000 held printed programs containing
the words of the songs which all were invited
to sing and most of which had been learned
and sung by many of them during an informal
singing period held on each of the first three
days of the week.

The Program

Each page of the program which was given
the audience was of a different color—orange,
yellow, green and blue. We are presenting here
the main events as they were listed on the pro—
gram. Unfortunately space does not permit of
our printing the words of the songs used and
it is possible to give only their titles. After

 

10

HEIGH-HO FOR A MERRY SPRING! 11

reproducing as much as possible of the pro-
gram, we will comment on each item in it and

tell how it was planned, organized and pro-
duced.

SPRING FESTIVAL

Farm and Home Week, Cornell University
February 14, 1935
Introduction

This Spring Festival, all of which has been planned
and prepared in three days of this week, is for immediate
pleasure, but all those connected with it are hopeful that
it will serve also as an inspiration for the production of
such a simple festival in many other communities in New
York State in the spring, at harvest time and at other
times. A large group of county representatives from all
parts of the state have taken steps this week, in daily

conferences, toward preparing to plan and direct such
festivals in their respective communities.

For this festival there is really no audience, for every-

one present is invited to take full part in it, through the
Singing if not through any other merry-making.

Behold the ancient customs ’
By which the folk made gay

Within the pleasant greenwood

Upon the first of May.

The M errymakers Sing and Dance

I. “Mayers” bringing in the green while everybody
sings the “Cornish May Song.”*
II. “Mayers” decorate the festival—place while every-
body sings.
Song: “Morning Comes Early”**
III. Bringing in the Maypole: bearer, chimney-sweeps,
hobby horse and more Mayers.
Song: “Come, Lasses and Lads”
IV. Maypole Dance: “Sellenger’s Round,” an old
English Country Dance.
V. Another group comes to dance and sing.
Song: “Rosa”*
Song: “Come, Let Us Be Joyful”
VI. Ploughboys and Milkmaids.
Song: “The Jolly Ploughboy”
Bean-setting, an old English dance grown out of
springtime dibbing and sowing.
The Merry, Merry Milkmaids—another old
English dance.
VII. Birds and other children from Bethel Grove
Rural School.
Song: “All the Birds”
“Song: “A Windmill”*
A singing game: “Oats, Peas, Beans and Barley Grow”
VIII. Song characters come alive.
Song: “The Lark in the Morn”**
Song: “The Old Woman and the Peddler”**
IX. Neighbors from the Hungarian Social Club of
Ithaca, in three folk dances.
Szalon Polka Csardas
X. Boy and girl hikers from Boynton Junior High
School, Ithaca, in some spring games.
Song: “Tiritomlba”**
XI. Folk dancers from the Campus, in three Scandi-
navian dances.

Dal Dance Schottische Josseharad Polka
XII. A group of American “Square Dancers” inta

Virginia Reel or whatever else you wish.
But where’s the fiddler?

Song: “The 'Generous Fiddler”*
XIII. A last good dance around the Maypole, and off
they go!

 

* To be found in "Songs for Informal Singing,” published by
the National Recreation Association. 10 cents a copy; $7.50 per
100 for 50 or more copies.

** In “Folk Songs and Ballads,” Set I., E. C. Schirmer Music
Company, Boston, Mass. 12 cents a copy.

('

Explaining the Program

The “Mayers” were eight couples of college
freshmen (high school, 4-H club or other
young men and women could do equally well)
who came dancing down the outside aisles,
four couples in each, from the rear of the hall
to the stage while the Cornish May Song was
being sung. The girls were in simple English _
country dresses and carried paper bonnets of
Spring colors, while the boys were in dark
trousers, white shirts, simple sleeveless jackets
made of bright, solid-colored cambric, and
girdles or scarves of the same material and
color about their waists. The boys carried small
branches of green leaves with which to finish
decorating the stage, the entire back of which
was covered with handsome hemlocks. In the
Spring they would, of course, be carrying
sprigs of flowers, too, in their upraised hands,
and the stage would also be decorated accord-
ingly. The directions for this processional
dance, as well as the melody and words of the
song, are in “Songs for Informal Singing,”
published by the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Both the song and the dance have been
used for generations in an annual May celebra-
tion in the village of Helston in Cornwall,
England. There on every eighth of May a
group of young people, having gone out be-
fore the dawn to gather greenery and flowers,
come singing and dancing as they bring these
into the village. Then other village folk joining
them and preceded by a band and usually led
by the mayor, dance through the streets and
in and out of houses, bringing the benign in-
fluence to every household.

Directly after “Morning Comes Early” was
sung, a gay shout was heard as the Maypole
was brought in by two men in old English
costume accompanied by two clownish chim-
ney sweeps, a very spirited hobby-horse and
four more “Mayers.” The Maypole, fifteen feet
high and 4%” in diameter, was all wound
round with fresh laurel with calendulas
fastened at short intervals between the laurel
stem and the pole, a wonderful sight for eyes
weary of winter’s bareness. From a small disc
two inches thick fastened to the t0p of the pole
hung gay-colored ribbons of cambric which,
not to be used in any dance, were only ten
feet long. The base or stand for the pole was
5 feet, 4 inches square, made of boards about

12 - HEIGH—HO FOR A MERRY SPRING!

9 inches wide and
1% inches thick,
with four wooden
brac’es which were
held together at
the top by a disc
about a foot wide, .
in the center of
which was a hole
into which the
pole fit snugly.
This base was, of
course, placed in
position on th 6
stage before the
festival started,
and it was hidden
under branches of
green.

T h e s o n g,
“Come, Lasses and Lads,” can be obtained for

ten cents from the H. W. Gray Company, 159

East 48th Street, New York. The music and

full directions for dancing “Sellenger’s Round,”
“Merry, Merry Milkmaids” and four other old
English dances are in Volume III of the
English Country Dance Graded Series, obtain—
able from the same company at $1.50.

After “Sellenger’s Round” was danced
around the Maypole by the same young people
who danced in to the Cornish May Song, some
women appearing at the left wing of the stage
and seeing the merry-making, sang as if to one
another the song, “Rosa, Let Us Be Dancing”
and skipped to the middle of the stage, all
twelve of them, falling into a circle around the
Maypole. At the end of the flI'St stanza the two
girls who happened then to be nearest a group
of six young men who had also appeared at the
left wing, dropped their hands, and the men
skipped inside the women’s circle singing,
“Rosa, will you be mine, now?” The women
continued skipping around while the men did
likewise but in the other direction. At the close
of the second stanza, each man turned to take
a certain two girls for his partners in “Come,
Let Us Be Joyful,” a charming and easy sing-
ing-dance to be found in “Twice 55 Games with
Music,” published by C. C. Birchard and Com-
pany, 22I Columbus Avenue, Boston, at 25'
cents a copy. This singing-dance had been

 

“h—

Courtesy English Folk Dance Society

learned in about
twenty minutes on
the preceding af-
ternoon.

Eight milkmaids
and six “plough-
boys” in overalls,
each of the latter
bearing a rake,
hoe or other light
farm implement,
strolled in with
free swinging step
to the song, “The
Jolly Ploughboy,”
one step to a
measure. This
.1 song, costing ten

cents, and the

music for the
dance, Bean—setting, can be obtained through
the H. \V. Gray Company mentioned above.
The dance music is published in Set I of Morris
Dance Tunes, along with seven other such
tunes, which costs $1.50.

Bean-setting, done by the men, is partly, at
least, an idealization of garden planting in
which a stick or dib was used to make a hole
for the seeds. It is done in sets of three couples,
each set in column formation, partners about

' four feet apart:

5 6

3 4

I 2
Audience

Each dancer holds in his right hand a round
stick about 18 inches long and about % of an
inch in diameter, and for each measure of the
music. except those tfor the dibbing and strik-
ing of sticks there are four low hopping steps
——-left, left, right, right —— with the free foot
slung slightly forward.

Introduction. During the playing of the
flI'St 8 measures the dancers stand as in the
above diagram, the sticks crossed between
partners ready to strike them together on the
third beat of the last measure.

Part I. A Ring

A. With dancers I, 3 and 5 turned “right
about face,” all proceed in an elliptical ring
with the step described above, No. 5 following

HEIGH-HO FOR A MERRY SPRING! 13

No. 6, and No. 2 following No. 1, until Nos.
5, 3 and I'are facing forward in the positions
of 2, 4 and 6, and vice versa. Then the two
files close in slightly, continuing the stepping,
and on the third beat of the fourth measure
partners strike their sticks together.

B. All continue around to the original posi-
tion and strike sticks on the third beat of the
eighth measure.

Part II. Dibbing, in which with partners
facing one another each one stoops forward
with stick in right hand to thump the lower
end on the ground.

All dib twice

Meas. 2. Remain stooped, strike partner’s
stick on first beat and hold it there

Meas. 3. All dib twice

Meas. 4, Ist beat. Strike partner’s stick
Meas. 4, 2nd beat. No. 2 strikes stick of No. 4
Meas. 5, Ist beat. No. 4 strikes stick of No. 6
Meas. 5, 2nd beat. No. 6 strikes stick of No. 5
Meas. 6, Ist beat. No. 5 strikes stick of No. 3
Meas. 6, 2nd beat. No. 3 strikes stick of No. I
Meas. 6, 3rd beat. All partners strike across

together.

Repeat all of Part II.

Meas. I.

Part III. Crossing over and back with step
of Part I.

A. Partners face each other, cross passing

right shoulder to right shoulder and turn right
into opposite places as they strike their sticks
together on the 3rd beat of fourth measure.

B. Partners return again, passing right
shoulders, and turn right into original place as
they strike sticks together on 3rd beat of eighth
measure.

Part IV. Repeat Part II.
Part V. Back-to-Back.

A. Partners cross as in Part III, but return
at once moving backward into original place in
time to strike sticks on the 3rd beat of fourth
measure. As they return backward they pass
left shoulders.

B. Partners cross passing left shoulders and
return backward passing right shoulders in
time to strike sticks on 3rd beat of eighth
measure.

Part VI. Repeat Part II and on the last beat
of the dance jump into the original column‘ for-
mation, facing forward, as the sticks are struck
and held crossed between partners.

The children in the one-room rural school
were asked what they would like to contribute
to the happiness of the festival. The seven
little children, dressed'in capes and caps of
different colors, who thus resembled birds,
needed no rehearsal to flit about while the song
"All the Birds” was sung twice:

German Folk Song

____I-—L--'=‘

W

o
L

"_—_L_L—

 

14 HEIGH-HO FOR A MERRY SPRING!

The children imitated the motions suggested
by each stanza of “A Windmill” as they sang it.

“The Lark in the Morn” and “The Old
Woman and the Peddler” were acted out.

The delight and other values to be found
in such dances as the Hungarian and Scand-
inavian ones, especially when they are done
as real folk-expressions by persons whose
(nati've heritage they are, should lead any
festival-maker to seek for such and for songs
and other appropriate folk-expressions among
the people of his region. Many a festival or
other such occasion has led people of foreign
extraction to recapture for their own happiness
and to present to the community traditional
music, dancing and other arts and crafts that
are superb recreational activities which they
had given up because of the contrary interests
and pressures of our everyday life.

The Junior High School boys merely played
two typical outdoor games, each taking two or
three minutes, after they had hiked on to the
stage. “Tiritomba” is a fine song to be sung
for such an entrance.

Two sets of eight for an American square
dance were formed at the moment, of people
who responded to an invitation given to “any—
one in the audience” to come and take part.
Only a caller and a fiddler had been chosen
beforehand and they had chosen “Darling
Nelly Gray” as the dance. The fiddler had been
asked to delay his appearance in order to give
excuse for singing the beloved song, “The
Generous Fiddler.” He also acted out-his part
in the second stanza of the song. Music and
directions for “Darling Nelly Gray” can be
obtained for 25 cents from the Church Recrea-
tion Service, Delaware, Ohio.

Throughout the festival as each group
finished its part it gathered, standing, at the
rear of the stage. Thus a constantly' growing
company of jolly and interested spectators was
on the stage, making the latter more and more
handsome and animated with their costume
colors and sincere appreciation and applause of
each succeeding group of performers. The
children seated themselves at the side ends of
the stage near the front. After the square dance
the Maypole, which had been set back to make
room for that dance, was brought to the middle
of the stage again, the Mayers did Sellenger’s
Round again around it, and then they skipped

off the stage, half going down one aisle and
half going down another aisle to the. rear of the
hall followed by all the rest of the merry—
makers, each group of whom had been told
down which aisle to go. Had there been time
before the festival for each of them to learn
“Sellenger’s Round,” it would have been
splendid to have three circles at once doing
that dance around the tree in a “grand finale.”

If there was any tendency toward having
this festival appear to be, unfortunately, an
exhibition rather than, or as well as, a spon—
taneous, self—forgetful though often beautiful
merrymaking, that tendency was completely
defeated by the chimney sweeps, Maypole
bearers and the hobby-horse. Their unrehearsed
imitations or other pranks coming at the close
of a dance or immediately after it brought
gales of laughter and made plain to anyone
who might otherwise doubt it that the per-
formers were not taking themselves too seriously.
But perfect ’care was taken to avoid having this
clowning detract attention from any dance or

other performance until the latter had had its
'full effect.

Organization and Preparation

A tentative program for the festival was
presented to a group of people chosen before-
hand as representing together knowledge and
executive force as. to available resources for
costuming, stage decoration, lighting, folk
dancing, singing, dramatics and, most import—
ant, for enlisting people to take part in the
festival, to be ushers, or to help in other ways.
After a three—hour, leisurely discussion the
program to be striven toward, and all its
needs, adapted to the actual possibilities as
estimated by those present, was well in mind,
including arrangements for enlisting groups to
perform. In the process of getting groups and
preparing them, some slight changes in the
program were made. No group rehearsed more
than four times, most of them fewer times, and
there was no joint or full rehearsal at all; yet
each group appeared without delay, in pr0per
costume, and performed well, and everything
else worked out well. This was mainly due to
the clarity of the plans for the festival, and
full knowledge for each group as to what it
was to do. A chart of the stage and the audi—

(Conffnucd on page 42)

The Florentine Musical May

LORENCE, ITALY, will lead
F the other art and music

centers of Europe with
the first music festival of the
season April 24th to June 4th.
The six-weeks affair’ is known
as Maggio Musicale Fiorentino,

or Florentine Musical May,

By MARINOBEL SMITH

It is indeed a far cry from the
simple Spring festival in rural

New York described by Mr.

Zanzig in the preceding article.

to the ambitious music festival
planned for Florence. Italy; but
we invite you to cross the ocean
with us and enioy a festival to
which six nations will contribute.

inception it was predominantly
Italian, music from 18th cen-
tury Italy comprising the
greater part of the 1933 pro-
gram. For the second Maggio
Musicale, however, contribu-
tors from Germany, France,
Austria, England and the

. and was inaugurated in 1933
at the instigation of Premier
Mussolini. Her Royal High-
ness, Princess Maria of Piedmont, sponsors the
festival this Spring.

One hundred and fifty thousand visitors were
estimated to have attended the first Maggio Musi—
cale. Among these were many Americans, and
again for- the coming fete, throngs of tourists,
students and others are expected to flood the city
during the month of May.

If these travelers abroad are familiar with' the
older, more picturesque festivals having their
roots in medieval times, they will make sure to
arrive in Florence at least a week before the
music festival starts. For it is in the ancient
square in front of Florence’s Duomo, or Ca-
thedral, that one of the country’s most colorful
Easter-time rituals takes place. On Holy Satur—
day a great three-tiered chariot, blazing with fire--
works set off by a mechanical dove (La Colom-
bina), draws out the entire Florentine citizenry
from the farthest parts of the city and the hills of
Fiesole nearby. “Lo Scoppio del Carro”—the
Burning of the Chariot—originated in the sacred
rite of kindling the holy fire on Holy Saturday,
and dates back to 1305 when a member of the
local Pazzi family returned victorious from the
Crusades.

Other traditional fetes, revived by the Fascist-
sponsored “National Leisure Hours Institution,”
attest to the still unrivaled spirit of carnival in
Italy. The culmination of the various seasonal
and religious festivals takes a less nationalistic
form in the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino. In its

 

United States, as Well as Ital—
ians, are featured in the pro—
gram- of opera, symphony and
chamber music concerts, drama in the out-of-
doors, the modern dance and lectures.

France offers the Paris Opera Company in
Rameau’s “Castor et Pollux,” and members of the
National Dancing Academy in a program of
dances. Austria is represented by the Mozart
opera “Il Ratto al Serraglio” in its complete form,
conducted by Bruno Walter and performed' by
Viennese artists. 'The Philharmonic Orchestra
and Kittel Chorus from Berlin will give perform-
ances of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony and the
Verdi Requiem.

The combined Florentine Choruses and Or-
chestras will appear in Haydn’s “The Season,”
under the baton of Vittorio Gui; in Mozart’s
“Requiem” under Mr. Walter; and in the com-
plete series of Bach’s “Brandenburg Concerti”
under Adolph Busch.

The most important contribution from Italy
herself is a new opera, “Orseolo” by Ildebrande
Pizzetti, to be given. its first public performances
May 4th, 9th and 15th. Rossini’s “Moses,” Verdi’s
“Ballo in Maschera” and Bellini’s “Norma” are
other Italian productions for which leading per-
formers and conductors have been engaged.

Rino Alessi's drama “Savonarola” will be
staged by Jacques Copeau in the historic Piazza
della Signoria where the martyr was executed
more than four hundred' years ago. An orchestra
conducted by Previtali and a huge chorus under
the direction of Morosini will supplement the out-
of-door spectacle with music written especially

15

16 THE FLORENTINE MUSICAL MAY

for the occasion by Mario Castelnuovo—Tedesco.

The United States will send the distinguished
Dr. Herbert Graf, stage director of the Phila-
delphia Opera, to direct Gluck’s “Alceste.” This
country may claim, too, a number of festival
stars: Mme. Elizabeth Rethberg, and Messrs.
Lauri-Volpi, Pinza and Borgioli of the Metro—
politan Opera Association, and Marion Clark,
American operatic soprano. Charles Kullman,
American singer who has appeared here with the
Chautauqua Opera Association at Chautauqua,
N. Y., and has enjoyed considerable success in
the opera houses of Berlin and Vienna, will also
take a leading part in the Florence festival per—
formances.

The Palazzo Vecchio, whose tower is visible
for miles up in the hills surrounding the city, will
house the second International Music Congress, a
part of the Maggio Musicale. The Piazza della
Signoria where “Savonarola” is to be given is
under the shadow of the Vecchio, but the other
scenes of festival productions are scattered in dif-
ferent parts of the city. Operas will be presented
in‘ the Teatro Comunale, formerly the Politeama
Fiorentino, with a seating capacity of 5,000 and a
modernized stage said to rank with the La Scalla.
The Teatro Pergola, not far from the Duomo.
will house several of the concert attractions.

One must cross over to the left bank of the
River Arno, preferably by the Ponte Vecchio. to
reach the Pitti Palace where the “Serenades” of
Mozart will be played in the courtyard and the
“Brandenburg” Concerti in
the Sala Bianca. The “Alceste”
of Gluck brings the festival to
a Close in the regal and ancient
Boboli Gardens nearby, fitting
surroundings for the culmina-
tion of the Maggio Musicale.

To the festival program it—
self, and the art treasures of
Florence which have attracted
generations of travelers, are
added other events of varied

The announcement of a festi-
val is always the signal for
Italian peasantry to gather
from the countryside to take
part in the festivities.

appeal. The Florence International Horse Show,
for example, is scheduled to take place this year
between the 14th and 19th of May. Italy’s fifth
annual Arts and Crafts Exhibition, presented in
a different city each year, will also be conducted
in Florence. Opening on May 5th and continu-
ing until the 26th, the exhibit will have on display
the finest specimens of modern handiwork done
in this Tuscan region and other parts of Italy.
Laces, wood carvings, metal work, pottery, glass-
ware and other crafts, in which the natives con—
tinue to excel with the encouragement of the Na-
tional Leisure Hours Institution, will be dis-
played.

Supplementing the music 'festival will ' be a
series of International Conferences in which
lectures on contemporary problems in the arts will
be given by  E. Luigi Pirandello; Lajos Zilahy,
the Hungarian writer; Henri Bordeaux of France;

Herman de Keiserling of Germany, and G. K.
Chesterton of Great Britain, among others.

 

Another Spring festival which willoarouse much
interest is the second National Folk Festival to be
held May 14th to 18th in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
in the heart of one of the richest seed beds of
folk material in America. Folk music, folk dances,
plays and exhibits of folk arts and crafts will be
features of the festival. Further information may
be secured from Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott,
National Director, Chamber of Commerce Build-
ing, Chattanooga.

 

Special Activities in Glens Falls, New York

HE PROGRAM conducted with
the relief funds allocated to

Glens Falls by the State De-

partment of Education, has depended upon the
available teachers eligible for relief. We have
been fortunate, however, in having the services
of a number of men and women who not only
needed the financial help but who could contribute
richly to the community. Certain phases of the
program have been more or less obvious. We
have had athletics directors; one teacher has
taught French and German, another Spanish; we
have been astonished at the number enrolled in a
public speaking class another girl has been able to
hold together; Parent Education, Shorthand,
Jewelry Making, Social and Economic History of
the United States, Psychology and Cooking have
been among the varied classes we have conducted
during the last thirteen months. However, we
have had several other rather unique activities.
due to the fact that we have found highly trained
teachers for these subjects who were eligible for
employment through these State funds.

The Fellowship of the Blind

One of the first people we located was an ex-
perienced teacher for the blind and deaf. She be—
gan her work by calling upon the fifteen blind
persons here in the city and inviting them to a
meeting to discuss the formation of a club of their
own. The idea was received with great enthusi-
asm and the Fellowship of the Blind was duly
organized for social and rec-

By RUTH SHERBURNE
Superintendent of Recreation

every Tuesday afternoon at two
o’clock at the home of a member
for a meeting and social time.
The business meetings have been given over to
lively discussions of a variety of matters of special
interest to the group. Last winter several bills
were introduced in the Legislature and one im-
portant one in Congress that related to the care
of the blind. The club members took pains to
study them carefully and to write their Represen-
tatives and Congressmen.

After the meeting members who read Braille
play Contract with cards marked in Braille,.of
course. Incidentally, one of the best bridge teach-
ersin town has given them a number of lessons.
Those who cannot read Braille play dominoes and
similar games. The gathering always ends with
afternoon tea. On Thanksgiving, Christmas, Val-
entine’s day and similar festive occasions there
have been more elaborate parties, sometimes even
dinners. During the summer months there were
several picnics at Lake George which these blind
men and women enjoyed 'as thoroughly as chil-
dren would.

Last fall the club became interested in the pur-
chase of a “Talking Book,” a combination radio
and victrola for which there is a circulating

F library of book records. The cost of the machine

was considerably more than the Fellowship could
shoulder itself, but the entire amount was raised
in a very short time through a very generous con-
tribution made by the churches at their Union

Thanksgiving service and by

reational purposes. ,Ofiicers
were elected and a program
of activities planned. While
one or two members of the
club are in fairly comfort-
able circumstances, the ma-
jority are very poor, yet
every member has insisted
upon paying a few cents
dues each week. The Out-
ing Club has quietly made
up deficits.

Every week for over a
year now this group has met

In New York State the TERA has allocated
funds to the State Department of Educa-
tion to employ teachers and leaders in need
of financial assistance to work on adult edu-
cation and leisure time programs. Com-
munities presenting acceptable programs
in turn receive funds from the State De-
partment for their proiects. The work is in
charge of the boards of education of the
various cities, but in Glens Falls, because
of the already highly organized set-up for
adult education and recreation under the
Recreation Commission and the supple-
mentary Outing Club' the local school au-
thorities have delegated the responsibility
to the recreation executive.

parties given by several in-
terested people. The book
has proved a great comfort
to a number of our blind
who, losing their sight late
in life, have had difficulty
in mastering Braille and
hence are cut off from books
unless someone reads to
them. The club has not only
been a source of happiness
for the blind; it has de-
veloped a really fine fellow—
ship and a spirit of c00per-

17

18 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES IN GLENS FALLS, NEW YORK

ation that has proved greatly to the advantage of
the members. For one thing, they have been able
to agree at last upon a standard price for their
chair caning, weaving and other handcraft; and
furthermore, a blind rug weaver now encourages
his customers to buy food from the blind food
sellers, who in turn suggest that their patrons buy
newspapers and cigarettes from the blind news-
dealer.

The teacher’s major work lies in assisting the
members of the club with their industrial work,
teaching them new patterns, helping to set 11p their
looms for weaving, sorting colors, starting bas—
kets and finishing work to be sent to the New
York Commission for the Blind. The blind have
not only made articles for their own profit but
have donated a large number of toys and useful
articles to the children at Westmount Tubercu—
losis Sanitorium. Furthermore, the leader is
teaching Braille and Square Hand, reading aloud,
reading and writing personal mail and assisting
the club members in other personal matters. She
has arranged for medical attention for five semi-
sighted persons and for two important operations.

In addition to this work with the blind, the
same teacher is working with several (leaf persons
who want to learn lip reading. One of them is a
college graduate who has rather recently almost
completely lost her hearing. Another is a clergy—
man who has had to give up parochial work be-
cause of his affliction, and has actually been on
the relief rolls because of his inability to find other
work to support a large family.

Americanization Classes

we have had an Americanization teacher under
our auspices for over a year who has worked ex-
clusively in a district without night schools, where
most of the non-English speaking Syrians and
Italians live. She has classes two nights a week in
the school building and works with four other
groups of women who meet afternoons in private
homes. Most of the women are mothers of large
families who find it impossible to get out even-
ings but who can give an hour or two, three times
a week, while their older children are in school.
Three men and women in her group expect to get
their naturalization papers in May while several
others are applying for their first papers.

At Christmas time we had a party for all the
Students, and although it was a bitterly cold night
and several were unable to get there, all who did
brave the zero weather had a jolly time playing

games, singing English and Italian songs and
dancing their own beautiful Tarantella.

Home—Bound Children

We also have a teacher for home-bound chil—
dren who visits the homes of children'of school
age who, either because of infantile paralysis, seri-
ous heart condition or other serious defects are
unable to attend regular school classes. The cases
were located through the records of the school
authorities and through the cooperation of phy—
sicians. At the present time the teacher visits eight
children regularly and drops in to see several
others semi-occasionally. As far as possible she
is trying to give them regular school work. One
little eight year old boy, a paralysis victim, had
never been able to have any school work whatever
up to the time she took him in January 1934. He
is an exceptionally bright youngster, however, and
during the year the teacher has been with him he
has fully covered required work for the first two
grades. Many of the children of course are un-
able to do much school work. However for those
who can use their hands the teacher has various
kinds of suitable handicraft. In the case of a few
seriously afflicted children, she merely goes to play
with them a bit, to tell them stories and to leave
some suggestions and material for the mother to
use until her next visit.

we have felt that great tragedy for most of
these children was their lack of social contacts, so
using the utmost care in transporting them we
have on several occasions taken all who were
capable of going to a picnic or party. Twice last
summer they went to our bathing beach where
they rolled in the sand like puppies, and at Christ-
mas we had a wonderful party at the teacher’s
home. There' were stockings full of presents,
moving pictures, a tea table with delightful favors
and loads of good things to eat. But the great
thrill of the afternoon‘came when one of our
leading dentists, who is an amateur magician of
real skill, came to entertain them and produced a
live. white bunny from a crumpled paper and
gave it to one wide eyed youngster “for keeps.”

The Hobby Club for Unemployed Men

Back in 1932 when the depression really hit us,
we saw crowds of hopeless looking men standing
in the corridors of the City Hall or milling about
on certain street corners days when the sun was
a bit warmer. \Ve decided that a decent, warm
place where these men could read and play games

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES IN GLENS FALLS, NEW YORK 19

while waiting for work to turn up would be of
real social value. Accordingly we rented a store
room that winter, equipped it with the tables and
benches used on the summer playgrounds, and
for three months, under the supervision of a sec—
retary, an average of ninety men a day made use
of the place. It was not open evenings regularly,
but on occasion, smokers were held at which a
speaker talked on a subject of interest.

The next year, 1933, the club branched out and
was named the‘- Hobby Club. The second floor of
a large building formerly used as a dress factory
was secured. and in addition to the games and
reading room a work shop was set up with fine
wood working machinery, hand tools, and a pot-
ter’s wheel. Here those who cared to were able
to make or repair articles either for profit or to
be taken home.

Last year the club did not open until February
first as our factory had been '
rented and it was difficult to
secure suitable quarters with-
in the limit of our funds. We
discovered that the Transient
Division of the TERA was
also looking for headquart-
ers, and arrangements were
made with this Federal group
for the use of the entire floor
of an unused school building
they were renting. In retum
the Outing Club repaired and cleaned Up the
premises for both organizations.

The place was well adapted to our purposes.
One room was used as the reading and games
room; another as the shop; a third, set aside for
boxing, wrestling and physical education, was
equipped with a regulation ring. In the fourth
room rehearsals for the weekly entertainment
were held and scenery and props built and painted.
A very wide hall was converted into a theatre by
putting in a movable stage and seats each Friday
for the minstrel shows and entertainments put on
by the men themselves. On these occasions men
might bring their wives.

The personnel of the club consisted of one gen-
eral supervisor especially in charge of the enter—
tainments who served in the Red Cross during
the war and has been on the stage for many years ;
two manual training teachers for the shop; three
secretaries, working in shifts, who kept the read—
ing room open seven days a week from 9 in the
morning until IO at night, and an athletics director,

One of the outstanding activities
of the Outing Club of Glens Falls.

which for years has conducted a
broad recreational program. is the

Hobby Club for Unemployed Men
operated for 'the past four years.
The story of the development of
this club is an interesting one.

 

working on part time. All men participating in
the regular Saturday night boxing bouts and
wrestling matches were given a rigid physical ex-
amination by one of the local physicians who very
kindly donated his services.

In addition to these activities there were a num-
ber of interesting speakers, among them, Father
Daniel R. Burns, Chaplain of Great Meadow
Prison and George H. Cless, Jr., Secretary of the
Glens Falls Chamber of Comnierce. Instruction
in first aid and artificial respiration was given by
Major George F. Heustis and A. P. Newkirk,
Boy Scout Executive, assisted by a group of
Scouts.

During the four months and a half the club
was open last winter, the shop alone was used by
1089 men who turned out the following articles:
mahogany library tables, office tables, card tables,
soft wood kitchen tables, Queen Anne stands,
smoking stands, davenport
stands, bed side stands, wash
stands, magazine racks, hall
trees, children’s chairs, cup—
boards, floor and table lamps,
candlesticks, medicine cabi—
nets. cigarette cabinets, book
ends, clothes racks, ironing
boards, shipping crates, bird
cages, bird houses, a row
boat and various toys and
puzzles. These articles were
made in the main from old wood—the head boards
of old black walnut beds, discarded oak dining
room tables, rough lumber from packing boxes
and three ply wood carefully saved from big
cases.

Approximately two hundred new articles were
made and finished by the men for profit or for
their homes but in addition there was a wide
variety of articles brought in for repairs such as
chairs, clocks, radios and musical instruments. A
few did sign painting. Moreover, the men were
very glad to give their time making and repairing
equipment for the Recreation Department. Scen-
ery and props were made for the Outing Club’s
Little Theatre group. All the toboggans were re—
paired and refinished. Twenty sets of paddle ten—
nis were turned out. LaCrosse goals were built
and regulation bases for all of our hard and soft
ball diamonds were made at a cost not greatly ex-
ceeding the cost of two high priced sets we might
purchase from sporting goods houses. To stitch

(Continued on page 43)

The Successful Nature-Garden Club

to club success the counselor

or club leader may well turn the spotlight of
critical examination upon himself. If you are
a nature-garden club counselor, what are the
qualities which you should have in order to be
a successful club leader? Imagination, initia-
tive, and enthusiasm are some of them. More-
over, as counselor and leader you must be able
to kindle those qualities in the members of your
club also. The nature-garden club leader must
be able to see life through the eyes of boys and
girls. He must be able to guide without push-
ing, to sugar-coat learning with the spirit of
play. He must have a rich store of garden and
nature lore and must, at a moment’s notice, be
able to find answers to countless questions. If
you are looking for something easy to sponsor,
it is suggested that you do not become coun—
selor of a nature-garden club!

I N CONSIDERING factors that lead

Planning Ahead

Another factor is the one of‘goals. Has your
club definite aims in planning its activities?
Many clubs run along from week to week in a
hit—or—miss. manner and the counselor wonders
why they are not successful. Think about this
—does each meeting, each program, bring
some definite end nearer to. realization? In
planning club activities many interests should
be cared for and programs must be varied.
Plan to avoid monotony, plan with the inter—

ests of everyone in mind—abut keep on looking

ahead.

At the beginning of
each year a considerable
amount of time should be
spent in general thought
and discussion. The plans
for the coming season
should be considered care—
fully. It may be possible
that the club has under
way a project which ex-
tends over a period of
years—if so, what shall

20

By KARL H. BLANCH

In a bulletinI "The Successful Nature-Garden
Club" issued by the School Garden Asso-
ciation of America. Mr. Blanch. who is
chairman of the Committee on Nature-Gar-
den Clubs of the AssociationI outlines the
organization of clubs for the upper grades
and high schools. the elementary school and
the rural school. We are presenting here
material from the suggestions for clubs in
the upper grades and high schools. Anyone
wishing to communicate with Mr. Blanch
may address him at the High SchoolI East
Mauch ChunkI Pennsylvania.

be done this year toward bring—
ing the project nearer to com-
pletion? A certain school has seen a school park
evolve during a period of five years. Where
once was a tract of wasteland, brush has been
cut out and trees, shrubbery, and flowers plan-
ted instead. Paths, lined with stones, have
been made, leading around thickets in which
birds build their nests. A stone amphitheatre
has been built among the trees. This project is
the result of planning—of planning with vision.
In addition to major projects like this one
there are many smaller and less elaborate ones
which can be completed in a single season;
your local situation will suggest many possi-
bilities. In considering, however, the selection
of a project several things must be thought of.
Has the project any real value? Does it con-
tribute anything of worth to the pupil’s per—
sonal welfare or to the welfare of the school
Or community? At the club’s present stage of
development is it possible that the contem--
plated project may be too ambitious a one?
Can it be financed adequately? Here is one
place where a need for thoughtful planning
can be seen. Supplementing group projects a
number may be worked out by individuals;
gardens are a good example of these. Plan to
do many things—interest is aroused and main—
tained only through activity—but whatever

your club does, see to it that it has been well
planned first.

Meetings

\Vell—planned projects
make the traditional type
of club meeting a very
subordinate activity. Re-
gular meetings, however,
should not be neglected.
They serve to emphasize
'the “organization” idea;
boys and girls like to feel
that they belong to Some—
thing that holds meetings
just like grown-up groups.

THE SUCCESSFUL NATURE—GARDEN CLUB 21

But just what is to be done
during these meetings is a
problem.

E v e r y well-organized
club has a program com-
mittee. The important duty
of this committee is to plan
the program for club meet-
ings. As counselor, be care-
ful that you do not dom-
inate the work of this
committee — stand aside
and give guidance and help
only when necessary. Start-
ing with the idea that all
programs should contribute,
directly or indirectly, to the
progress of the club toward
one or more of its major
goals the committee should
attempt to discover the
interests and abilities of
every member so that all
may share in the year’s
programs. The committee
should not permit a few
members to do all the work;
it is so easy to let the outstanding pupils
monopolize programs ! Keep looking for hidden
ability and talent; school clubs are the incuba-
tors for the development of these.

As a usual thing the business portion of the
meeting should be brief. It likewise should be
kept strictly formal. The play-way has no
place in Parliamentary procedure. The in—
formal part of the program should follow the
business session. Have you been wondering
why the boys and girls in your club don’t seem
to be interested in meetings? Check up a little.
Have most of the programs been made up of
badly-read papers dealing with miscellaneous
subjects, the material for which has been
.copied, word-for-word, from an encyclopedia
or other reference book? This is common club-
meeting procedure. Put yourself in the place
of the pupil who has to listen to this type of
program-then stop wondering about the lack
of interest! Enliven the programs, making of
them something vital and living instead of
something that is dead and static. If the meet-
ing has not been planned so that most of the
time will be spent in working on either group

or individual projects, chose one topic and plan .

 

- Now that Spring has arrived he's
ready to begin work on his garden! talk

the program around it.
Have members give short
talks based, if possible,
upon their own experiences.
Include a few musical num-
bers on the program. Save
some time for general dis-
cussion of the topic for the '
day. Always have a novelty
of some kind to end the
meeting—a contest, a game
or something of similar na-
ture. Make frequent use of
motion pictures, lantern
slides, exhibits of collec‘-
tions, and guest speakers.
Have you ever really
considered the potential
program possibilities in
your community? Perhaps
the mailman may be'an
enthusiastic amateur taxi—
dermist; why doesn’t the
chairman of the program
committee invite him to
to the club about
animals? That man in the
next block who ,has that fine vegetable garden,
the woman whose home across the street is
always filled with beautiful plants during the
winter months—m—how about them? A local
florist, the man who keeps the pet shop, the
manager of a fish hatchery, the district forester
——all these are sources of interesting program
material. Have you ever exchanged pupil-
speakers with another similar club in your own
school or in a school in a neighboring town?
Has your club ever invited another group to
exchange entire programs? Here there is an

excellent opportunity to do something both
worth while and interesting.

When should club meetings be held? The
best time of all is during a period set aside for
activities of this kind during the regular school
day. This period should, preferably, be the last
one of the day so that clubs may, if desired,
meet for longer than one period. This is espe-
cially desirable in the case of_nature-garden
clubs which are often working on out-door
projects at a distance from the school. If no
regular time for meetings is provided during
the school day, the next best time is after
school. As a rule, evening meetings should not

22 THE SUCCESSFUL NATURE-GARDEN_ CLUB

be held except in cases where there are very
real reasons for meetings at this time. If several
clubs working with different activities are to
meet together, if guest speakers are unable to
be present during the daytime, if motion pic-
tures can be shown only after dark—these are
good reasons for evening meetings. Once in a
while an open meeting should be planned and
the public invited. Plan this meeting to show
in some striking way something of the work
of the club. Don’t hold meetings too often——
once every two weeks is often enough—even
one a month if a sufficient number of “get to-
gether” meetings of activity groups are held
and members, as individuals or groups, work
on projects as they can find time. '

Evening hikes are popular with nature—
garden clubs but they have little real worth
and are difficult to supervise properly. Far bet-
ter is the early morning hike. Have a com-
mittee plan where to go and why, then arrange
for the club to meet at a definite place and time.
Leave promptly. An hour or two of brisk walk-
ing through the woods in spring or autumn,
breakfast cooked over an open fire after the
destination has been reached, return to school
with just time enough for a shower before
classes begin—this is one way to make the rest
of the school envious of the nature-garden
club!

Activity Groups

It is a good plan to divide a large club into
several smaller groups, each of which is inter-
ested in some particular activity. There is no
objection to a member’s belonging to several
of these groups. This is a much better plan
than that of having several nature—garden clubs
in the same school. Each activity group should
be under the informal direction of a pupil
leader, chosen from among those members who
show outstanding qualities
of leadership and interest.
Activity groups do not
bother with regular meet-
ings unless they are neces-
sary to make plans, to dis-
cuss projects, or to study
some special phase of their
work._ Each group should
take the lead in planning
one or 'more of the regular
meetings of the entire club,

"The desire to worl: among plants in any
manner is always to be encouraged. It
fosters a love of the beautiful, an ap-
preciation of growing things, gentleness
and kindness, responsibility and faithful-
ness to duty. And besides developing
these desirable attributes, it occupies
spare hours satisfactorily and trains
bodies in a.healthl:ulI wholesome way.
So give children a garden though it's
only the size of a pocket handkerchief!"
—-From Home Education.

working with the club program committee.
Often a teacher will be found who is interested
in a special nature—garden activity and who will
be glad to work with this group as a co—coun-
selor. It has just been said that one of these
groups may wish to spend some time in study.
An excellent plan—-pupils plan to study be-
cause they themselves see the need for ac—
quiring more information concerning their
work! But don’t attempt to make a class of this
study hour—here, if ever, the spirit of purpose-
ful play should prevail and the study hour
should be informal in nature.

Club Libraries

Has your club a library? If your members
have access to a public or school library, if
your school is progressive and large enough
to have a special general club library—fine!
But have a nature—garden club library anyway.
A closet, or a cupboard in the corner of a class-
room will provide sufficient space. Choose a’
librarian and an assistant from the club’s mem-
bership and put them in charge of all books,
magazines, pictures, clippings, etc., belonging

.to the club. If there are several clubs with a

nature study interest in your school, or if
there are a number of activity groups within
the one club the library should be a joint pro-
ject. Providing material for the library should
be a continuous club activity—it will be sur-
prising to note how the collection of pictures
and clippings grows and how many magazines
are being donated. It might well be said here
that provision should be made in the budget
of every nature-garden club for subscriptions
to several magazines dealing with nature study
and gardening activities. In the nature study
field money spent for magazines is a far better
investment than is a similar sum spent for
books. Leading magazine articles should be
listed on file cards and the
cards indexed according to
the chief activities of the
club. Clippings and pictures
should be kept in large
envelopes and the envelopes
filed alphabetically. A spe-
cial list of books and maga-
zines available in the school
library should be prepared
and posted. Librarians
should be on duty for a

THE SUCCESSFUL NATURE-GARDEN CLUB 23

few moments before and after school each day;
club members and counselors should be per--
mitted to take out material in accordance with

some established regulations.

Service

How may your club be of service? Within
the school it should cooperate with other clubs
in the general activity program. Again, it may
be possible that a unit of the work of a biology
or general science class may be devoted to
either study or projects relating to nature. Here
club members should act as leaders, both in
discussion and in the working-out of projects.
In the community the constant aim of the
club should be to spread the desire to be inter-
ested in nature study and gardening activities.
Much can be done to make a community
“nature c‘onscious” through exhibits. These ex-
hibits should be seasonable. An exhibit of
garden posters, seed collections, clippings, and
folders dealing with flower and vegetable cul-
ture would be very appropriate for the early
spring months and would help to create a com-
munity interest in gardening; a mid-winter
flower and potted plant show would help to
encourage window-gardening in the com-
munity. A shade tree census might lead to a
community program of street and roadside
beautification. Cooperate with the local news-
papers and the local public library and they
will cooperate with you.

National Organizations

Is your club a member of' the national or-
ganizations in the nature study field? If not,
much that is worthwhile is being missed.
These groups specialize in giving help to clubs
and club counselors. The National Association
of Audubon Societies, in the field of bird study
and animal conservation; the Wild Flower
Preservation Society, in the field of wild flower
conservation; and the Junior Garden Clubs of
America, in the field of gardens for juniors—~—
all these are outstanding national organizations
which will welcome'a local chapter in your
school. The School Garden Association of
America is interested in a broad program of
nature study and gardening activities in boys’
and girls’ clubs; all nature and garden clubs,
no matter what their special interest may be,
should register with this association. The fee

for affiliation with any or all of these national
groups is nominal and brings back big returns
in the form of help and service.

Club Finances

Last of all to be considered, but important
nevertheless, is the manner in which your club
finances its activities. There is no doubt but
that some money is necessary with which to
work; just how much and where it is to come
from is the real problem. To begin with, a
budget should be made up at the time the
year’s activities are being planned. The amount
of money necessary for carrying out the year’s
work should be estimated and possible
sources of funds considered. The usual way of
securing money for club activities is through
dues paid by members. There is some value in
having dues—they at least serve to keep out
the “drifters”——those pupils who have no real
interest but who are always on hand when
something extra-special is being planned. Have
dues, but keep them low. Better have low dues
that can be collected than high ones that can’t!
There are other—and better—ways to raise
money. Borrow the school movie machine and
run a show, charge a small admission fee to an
exhibit, put on a nature play or operetta, or
plant bulbs during the winter months and sell
flowers in the spring.

The School Garden Association of America
whose address is 121 East Fifty-first Street, New
York City, has issued a second bulletin prepared
by Mr. Blanch entitled “Home Room Gardeners
——a Garden Club for Indoors.” In it Mr. Blanch
outlines a program of activities in which the lower
grades, in particular, may participate through
“doing” groups of Gardeners. He makes practical
suggestions regarding the best plants to choose
for an indoor garden, their location, planting and
care. “Home Room Gardeners,” he says, “in ad-
dition to the more or less routine work outlined,
may carry out other activities and projects. In a
large school a room should be set aside for nature-
garden club use. Here the Gardeners may store
supplies, pot bulbs, start seedlings, and carry on
similar work. Extra plants for emergencies can
be grown here. A flowering plant, school grown,
sent to a pupil or teacher absent from school' be-

cause of prolonged illness is a very welcome gift
indeed.”

April Showers

HE INVITATIONS to this party may be written
T on brightly colored paper, or pale blue paper

may be used with a rainbow painted or pasted
on it and a boy and a girl in slickers under an
umbrella.

On a sheet of cardboard draw a large open
umbrella and underneath it write “Come in out
of the rain and enjoy our April Showers.”

Use a variety of colors for the decorations.
Form a big rainbow out of crepe paper or cheese
cloth at one end of the hall and over this draw a
bit of white gauze to blend the colors. String
crepe paper garlands in rainbow colors about the
room. Festoons hanging from doors and curtains
make an effective background. Colored balloons
suspended from the ceiling will add to the beauty
and atmosphere. Gaily colored paper hats may
be provided for the guests, or rainbow paper head-
bands for the girls and belts or sashes for the
boys. , Or each guest may be asked to bring
umbrellas and wear slickers or raincoats.

Program

Slicker Wise-Cracking Contest _
Give each guest as he arrives three 'yards of
plain wrapping paper, scissors, crayons, and pins.
Allow fifteen minutes to see who can create the
cleverest slicker. Have a slicker parade with
judges to vote on merits of the decorative efforts.

Colored Clothing Contest

On the invitation the guests may be asked to
wear as many different colors as possible, such as
a green sock and a blue sock; a purple shirt and a
red necktie. Award a prize to the person wearing
the- most colors.

Sir Walter's Cloak

Select a half dozen couples.
The boys will be Sir Walter
Raleigh and the girls Queen _
Elizabeth. Give to each boy two
newspapers for a cloak and lay
out a course from one end of the
room down and back again. Line
up the couples and give the start—
ing signal. Each girl tries to go

24

This party is one of a series of
broadcasts on the-subject of
social recreation by the Down
Town Branch of the Y.M.C.A.
of Pittsburgh over station
KDKA. The material for these
broadcasts is prepared by W. T.
Rowe and T. R. Alexander, and
is issued under the caption
"Recreo Bulletins."

down and back again without allowing her feet to
touch the Hoor as the boys try to keep a news-
paper in front of her all of the time. First couple
to Snish first wins. If one of the girls steps on
the floor instead of the newspapers, she and her
partner must either drop out of the race or begin
agaln.

A Rainy Day Race

Several couples are needed for this race. They
stand in line with a closed satchel and an umbrella
in front of each couple. In each satchel are a
pair of rubbers, a pair of gloves and a raincoat or
cloak. At the signal to start each young man grabs
his satchel, and hand in hand he and his partner
rush to the opposite goal where he opens the
satchel, hands his partner her rubbers, which she
puts on, holds her coat for her while she gets into
it, closes the satchel, raises the umbrella, and,
holding the umbrella over her with one hand and
carrying 'the satchel with the other, runs with her
back to the starting point. He then closes up the
umbrella, opens the satchel, helps his partner out
of her coat, takes the gloves and rubbers as she
drops them, and puts them all in the satchel, clos—
ing it up. The couple to dnish nrst wins.

Stepping Stones

Select six or eight persons to compete in this
race. Each contestant is supplied with two little
squares of wood or cardboard just big enough for
one foot to go on. These squares are pushed
along, one at a time, the player standing balanced
on one foot while he thrusts the stone (the wood
or cardboard) forward with the other. Anyone
touching the Hoor with either foot must go back
to the starting point and begin again.

In the Pond, On the Bank

Draw a chalk line down the
middle of the room or stretch a
tape along the floor. Designate
the space on one side of this line
as “the pond”; on the other side
“the bank.” Line the players up
on the bank and then start giving
orders. When the leaders says:

( Continued on page 43)

On the
Wild Flower
Trail

I

 

Courtesy Ft. ll’orth, Texas, Park Department

1TH THE FIRST breath of spring there is an
w incentive to be out in the open. A recrea-

tional activity that may be engaged in
almost as soon as the snow has gone, and which
lasts until late fall, is the collecting of wild flow-
ers, and their artistic arrangement in an her-
barium. This collection may be assembled in a
single summer, or it may be added to from one
season to the next as long as the interest holds.
And interest is likely to last for there is a genu—
ine thrill in arriving uneXpectedly upon a patch
of cardinal flowers in all their brilliance, in mak-
ing the acquaintance not only of the common way-
side plants, but also of those hidden in the depths
of the woods, of the delicate flowers growing by
the rim of the lake and of the more hardy varie—
ties trailing over the mountainside.

A part of the delight of flower collecting is that
it holds so many surprises for its followers. What
appears to be an insignificant bloom turns out to
be a plant of interest, as in the case of the sun-
dew. The sundew, a bog plant growing from four
to nine-inches high, actually catches insects and
devours them. The sundew’s hairy leaves are
coated with a fluid which attracts the insect. The
tiny red filaments of the leaves curl about the in-
sect thus captured and gradually the plant absorbs
its prey.

You will need an inexpensive flower guide to
identify the specimens. When you have found a
number of different flowers the pleasure of dis-
covery will be two-fold if the next step is con-
sulting the guide and learning the common Ameri-
can names for the newly-found specimens.

By SARA H. CARLETON
Cambridge, Massachusetts

The Herbariurn

For the herbarium use a large book of manilla
paper with a heavy cover. A loose leaf book is
preferable. Decorating the cover will add to the
attractiveness of the collection. The flowers
should be pressed between newspapers. The
newspapers are laid between large sheets of blot-
ting paper which are covered with a wooden lat-
ticework made of strips of wood about three-
quarters of an inch thick and an inch wide.
\Veights are placed on top. For the majority of
smaller flowers satisfactory work can be done
with the newspapers and weights alone. The blot-
ting paper is used as a drier and is Sometimes
changed from day to day.

After an interval, when the flowers have been
pressed, they are ready for mounting. Arrange
them on a page of the herbarium and attach by
means of very narrow strips of court plaster, one
or two strips across the stem, and others across
the leaves, as many as the specimens seem to re-
quire. A more expert mounting is achieved by
gluing the specimens with a tin paste, the kind
that is employed in factories for pasting labels on
tin cans, in addition to using strips of court plas-
ter. A very large flower will cover an entire page,
but four or five specimens of smaller plants may
be grouped on a single page in whatever arrange-
ment satisfies the collector. There is an artistic
value in the grouping of flowers, an ability that

25

26 ON THE l/VILD FLOWER TRAIL

grows as the herbarium maker becomes skilled in
this practice.

The sweet-scented arbutus makes an attractive
specimen with its fan-like spread and its dainty
pink blossoms which preserve their natural color
especially well. Some of the least pretentious
plants make very beautiful specimens in the her-
barium. The rough bedstraw when mounted
makes a pattern of delicate tracery with its whorls
of leaves and many tiny blossoms in clusters that
add to the intricacies of the design. The hogweed,
scorned habitant of back yards, is an admirable
specimen for a collection with its fern-like leaves.
Some plants have, leaves of a dark green that are
a silver white on the backs. A pleasing effect is
accomplished by turning some of these leaves on
their wrong sides when arranging the mount, thus
bringing out the contrasting shades of silver white
and deep green. There are many tricks of the trade
that the flower collector will pick up as he adds
to his herbarium. The amateur is likely to over-
look the importance of roots. Many of the trail-
ing and vine-like plants have roots that not only
add to the grace of the mount, but are equally in-
teresting from the botanical point of view.

The collector will want to print beside each
flower the common name, the date on which it
was found and the place where he found it. So
much data will give a personal note to his collec-
tion. If he wishes he may include also the name
of the flower family which he will find in the
guide.

In general the mounted specimens will preserve
their natural colors for a considerable number of
years. Some colors will endure longer than others.
The waxy white Indian pipes, after a passage of
time, turn a solid black until they are silhouettes
of their former glory. In one collection a speci-
men of blue vetch, which was added to the her-
barium in 1913, is nearly as colorful today as at
the time of its mounting.

A woman living in Maine collected over four
hundred different wild flowers in a single sum-
mer. She reports that her two most exciting
flower “finds” were a species of greenish white
trillium or wake robin known to be rare, and the
discovery of a field of purple loosestrife, a flower
not supposed to flourish in Maine although it is
prevalent in Massachusetts. While driving over
an out-of—the-way country road, the brilliance of
the loosestrife growing in a field where there was
a windmill close by a farmhouse lured the flower
collector from her car. Massachusetts friends had

sent her specimens of the purple loosestrife so
she was well acquainted with the plant, although
scarcely able to believe that she was seeing before
her a sea of flowers that were foreign to that part
of New England.

The earliest spring flower is the skunk cabbage
that makes its debut when March gales are still
blowing. In April anemones and trailing arbutus
are found in the woods. By May there are many
newcomers —pussytoes, columbine, Jack-in-the-
pulpits, violets and others. The collector is able
to have work on his herbarium well under way by
the middle of summer, June, July and August are
the months of greatest activity for the collector,
but even in September there are flowers waiting
for the place in the herbarium. Among the late
flowers are the lilies, foxgloves, goldenrod and
asters.

Don’t Overlook the Back Yard!

Automobiles have paved the way for getting
into the country, but cars are not essential to city
residents who are lovers of wild flowers. There
are parks and reservations where there are flow-
ers. Even in suburban back yards there are plants
worthy of attention. The commonest plants are
often overlooked. They are little known by the
average man, who, if he considers them at all, does
not recognize them as more than passing acquain—
tances. Yet no herbarium that aims at a general
survey of all sorts of flowers is complete without
them. The sorrel, the cinquefoil, the stitchwort,
the ground ivy, the diminutive speedwell and the
shepherd’s purse are a few of these plants. The
amateur who has been familiar with only the red
clover of the field and back yard species, will soon
discover that the red field clover has a number of
cousins worthy of his acquaintance, ranging all
the way from the cinnamon colored rabbit-foot
clover to the sweet white clover common to the
grassy roadsides.

The collector who is bf an aesthetic rather than

him as the most attractive because of their color
or graceful outline. From time to time he may
run across quotations describing the various flow-
ers in his collection which may be copied beside
his specimens on their appropriate pages. VVil-

liam Cullen Bryant wrote:

“— Within the woods

Whose young and half transparent leaves scarce cast
A shade, gay cmcles of anenomes
Danced on their stalks.”

(Continued on page 44)

Planning tor Recreation

materially to the'already

long list of recreational possibilities and lei-
sure-time activities. A recent pamphlet* typical
of its kind, suggests as many as five thousand
things to be done, to be made, to be required,
or to be learned. Courses, lectures, booklets,
discussions and debates are growing day by
day.

Since recreation is an old human problem,
changing only relatively with the times, it is
worth while to discover its characteristics.

Recreation may stand for restoration, rehab-
ilitation, reconstruction, rejuvenation, regen-
eration, relaxation, reeducation, growth and
many other such processes expressing the
potentiality of man to regain strength after
fatigue, courage after distress, play after work
and similar functions. Recreation must be
taken as a part of human life. Let us under-
stand it as a normal need just as is food or
water, sunshine or sleep. Recreation is a uni-
versal phenomenon found in animal, plant and
man as recovery and restoration as well as an
expression of the will to live.

\Vhen planning ways and means of recrea—
tion, distinction must be made as to the inter-
ests and inclination of adults and children, as
well as to their needs.

IT WOULD be difficult to add

Recreation for the Adult

From a study of nearly a thousand adults
three psychological and sociological factors
seem to me most vital:

(I) Every human being
wishes at times to be alone,
to relax in order to recover.
This means finding oneself,
one’s own meaning and im-
bortance in life.

(2) If this wish is grati- .\
lied, a normal desire drives
the individual to seek com-
pany, to exchange ideas, to
play and work with others,

By ISAAC M. ALTARAZ, Ph.D.

Dr. Altaraz. who has had long experience
as an educator, in I927 founded the Al-
taraz School for Character Training at
Monterey, Massachusetts. Since that
date he has served as resident director
and psychologist at the school which has
as its purpose the solving of personality
problems and the discovery of practical
methods for reeducation and guidance.
During I934. as visiting lecturer in the
Division of General Education at New
York University, Dr. Altaraz gave a
:ourse of lectures on Creative Life.

to get approval, to express
feelings -— in short, to
satisfy the element of social contact.

(3) As a third factor we have the desire
of the human being to come in contact with
nature.

Since we are all different and each of us has
a different rhythm of living, recreation will be
individual and varied. Some people are condi-
tioned to air, others to sun, still others to
music. We may then speak of helio-tropic,
aero—tropic, amoro-tropic, money-tropic, jazzo-
tropic, movie-tropic, radio-tropic people. The
recreative means, accordingly, will be different,

Recognizing, then, these three sources of
recreational life, how is it possible, practically,
to meet the needs which arise? ,

Recreation in Solitude. To bec'ome acquainted
with oneself is “easier said than done.” In one:
self are the many desires, dreams, wishes,
aspirations, hopes, worries, tragedies -and
comedies that make man. Standing at Times
Square when the Babylonian mob moves north
and south, one may well say, “Who am I?”
But sitting in an easy chair in a cozy room, re-
laxed and surrounded with familiar posses-
sions, one will feel' “so big.”

Work As Recreation. Some individuals find
recreation by a change in activity, going
smoothly from one interest to another and
never tiring. Recent studies of fatigue have
proven that the old state of being tired at the
end of the day is more of an habitual emotional
one; that every one of us
gets another “break” when
we have finished with our
work, so that we can start
to create again and do
something just when we

begin to say to ourselves
that we have done our
share.

Social Contact. M a n ’ S

social contacts, either in

' Care and Fading of Hobb H s
E. E. Calkins. 3' om ’

27

28 PLANNING FOR RECREATION

work or play, need planning and cultivation if
they are to be sources of vital and humanized
recreation. In this field great progress has re-
cently been made in the cities through courses,
lectures, forums and gatherings for intelligent
recreation; through work shops in the arts and
crafts for artistic and creative recreation, and
through inspirational centers for spiritual
recreation.

The Place of Work and the Place You Live In.

\Vork should be our greatest blessing. Do you
love the work you. are doing and are you en-
gaged in the pursuit of some activity that
utilizes all your energies? Is the house you
live in a tower full of
strangers who are trying
to avoid one another by
locking themselves in
boxes called rooms and
apartments? If you feel
this is true, you will
derive no recreation or
happiness from your
dwelling.

How entire cities can
be humanized is a tre—
mendous problem. The
TVA movement may be
one way. Benton Mac-
Kaye in his phenomenal
work, The New Explora-
tion. has written a book
of revelation which is a
Source of wisdom. As an
engineer he has shown
a remarkable way to transform the “wilderness
of civilization” into an "indigenous environ-
ment,” mechanized life into cultural growth,
existence into real living, and a gigantic met-

ropolis into a regional city.

Nature. Mother Nature will always remain
the greatest source of human recreation. For
genuine recreation city folks should join clubs
and organizations whose purpose it is to hike,
to explore, and to encourage simple ways of
spending time in the open. For families and
small children, parks and playgrounds in the
cities supply some opportunitites to spend every
possible moment among trees and plants, giv-
ing the_ children their opportunity to saturate
themselves with life-giving natural forces. Mu-
seums are sponsoring garden clubs, the care

of flowers and animals, the planting of trees
and other projects. The movement known as
the small garden projects offers city dwellers
an excellent opportunity to return to nature.
The whole problem of planning recreation
for adults is a difficult one because formerly
education was not concerned with the develop-
ment of individual interests and hobbies.

Recreation for the Child

The new education encourages free play and
utilizes surplus energies in constructive ways.
In the school I conduct the basic idea is to
start the building of character from the play--

 

Courtesy Chicago S and]: Park C ommissioners

A boy's desire to make things may be a de-
termining factor in his choice of vocation

ful tendence of each individual child, from his
inner likes, dormant gifts and genuine and
natural aptitudes.

\

A boy of fourteen who would at every oc—
casion sneak away and disturb the peace even
of the early hours by his hammering was found
building a house on top of a tree in the near-
by woods just to satisfy his longing for build-
ing. This hobby of his was encouraged. Extra
time was given him for shop work, and now
at twenty he is a fine craftsman and self-sup-
porting. Another young pupil who loves and
really understands animals—and'they‘ know it,
too—spent his free time in the barn with cows

(Continued on page 44)

A Successful Bird Club

AST SEPTEMBER the Brooks Bird
Club with headquarters at
Oglebay Park, Wheeling,

West Virginia, celebrated its sec-
ond birthday, a healthy and sturdy young child!

The bird club is only one of the nature activi—

ties of Oglebay Park Institute which since 1028
has included in its program a rather extensive
nature study schedule. Public field trips have been
held in the park since July 1928, and somewhat to
the surprise of those who have engineered the In—
stitute program since its inception these field trips
have had a weekly attendance average since their
beginning of 115 people who meet every Sunday
in the spring, summer and fall at seven o'clock.
Under the leadership of A. B. irooks, park nat-
uralist, they then hike over approximately two
miles of the park’s trail system which is about ten
miles in length. Mr. Brooks is a keen observer
and student of bird life, and in addition to his
public hike schedule has served as a leader of the
annual nature training school affording intensive
work for three weeks or longer early each summer.
It is not surprising that with such opportuni-
ties for cultivating outdoor hobbies at their very
doorsteps, a number of Wheeling district people
should have displayed more than ordinary inter-

est in variOUs phases of nature study, including

the study of wild birds which abound in the 750-
acre natural park where the walks are held and
which is headquarters for
the annual Nature Train-

By J. W. HANDLAN

Oglebay Institute
Wheeling, West Virginia

Then it hit upon the simple ex—
pedient of planning its activities a
year in advance.

An executive committee decided
upon subjects to be studied at each meeting. It
listed the names of club members alphabetically
and assigned three people to each meeting to re-
port upon assigned subjects. The committee—all
amateurs —'were fortunate enough to have had
two to four years of study in connection with the
Park hikes or the Nature Training Schools. In
other words they had become humbly aware that
they knew little or nothing about ornithologyl

But books were available and the entire Flrst
year's program of the club—the presentation of
three ten-minute papers at each meeting by mem-
bers of the organization——consisted virtually in
reviewing the literature locally available upon each
subject assigned. .

In the second year the program was slightly
varied. One major paper was assigned for each
meeting. Two shorter papers were assigned with
the subjects optional with those who were to pre—
sent them.

This summer all club members are working
upon self-assigned “projects” in local bird study,
and beginning in September, most of the papers
to be presented at the monthly meetings of the

iclub will be original in nature.

Throughout the duration of the club's life “club
field trips” have been held.

Each Sunday morning in

ing School.

In September of 1932 a
dozen individuals especial-
ly interested in birds de-
cided to organize a bird
club—the club to be part
of the West Virginia Na—
ture Association, Inc., the
official sponsor of all
nature study activities of
Oglebay Institute. For a
month or two the organi-
zation Houndered about.

RECIPE FOR A SUCCESSFUL BIRD CLUB

"Secure a competent naturalist who will
conduct public nature study trips until a num-
ber of those regularly attending them acquire
the desire to know more about birds.

"Stir in a copy or two of Dr. F. M. Chap-
man's Handbook, or the Handbook by
Florence M. Bailey. it the dish is prepared
West of the Mississippi River.

llAdd a program of regular meetings in
which members take part rather than visiting

experts. Include a regular schedule of field
trips limited to members.

"Simmer. permit interest to crystallize—and

there's your Bird Club!"

April and May, for ex-
ample, the group meets at
5 A. M. at Oglebay Park.
More experienced mem-
bers serve as leaders for
two to three less experi—
enced bird students. A two
hour field trip is the
schedule of each of these
small parties and, as a re-
sult, bird identification in
the field is no longer a

(Continued air page 45)
29

A State Experiment in Rural Recreation

BEAUTIFULLY clear summer’s day in the midst
A of the White Mountains. Onto the lawn in
front of a big hotel there come early Ameri—
can Indians with their colorful headdresses and
regalia, while nearby an orchestra plays strains
from MacDowell’s Indian music. Tracing the
progress of light as represented in education and
culture these groups from Hillsboro and Cheshire
counties show to the audience of three hundred
gathered to watch them what the development has
been through church, school and home. Square
dancing to the tune of a melodeon and fiddles
played an important part in the early days of the
state, and the present day was demonstrated in a
tableau of arts and sciences which included agri-
culture and home-making as well as literature,
music and painting.

This pageant was the result of the leadership
of the recreation advisors in Hillsboro and
Cheshire counties.

Another day—equally fair—and the same ma-
jestic setting. In the foreground tiny children
dressed in pure white costumes dance gracefully
to piano and violin music, while in the back-
ground wood-choppers bring in the trees used for
various kinds of wood-carving. Two other groups
of girls, costumed like English peasants, advance
to the green to one of the old English procession-
als, and then go into a circle dance which has been
handed down from the Druids and represents
their worship of the trees. There follows a puppet
show which gives an idea of the modern adapta—
tion of wood-carving—all of

Marguerite. There follows a most dramatic
picture of the iron kettle story in which a young
girl dashes from the block house on horseback to
secure forces against an unexpected Indian at-
tack. So well was this depicted that the entire
audience was held spellbound.

Here the leaders were the recreation advisors
from Merrimack and Sullivan counties.

Again—sheep grazing peacefully in the back-
ground. A small group of women in old-fashioned
costume spin the wool and. prepare the flax while
another cards. In the foreground the dyeing takes
place—-- first the goldenrod or other flowers used,
then the dipping in huge caldrons, then the fin-
ished skeins hung on the racks. Off to the other
side a group approaches the loom, singing the
\Veaving Song as they come, while from a distance
girls dressed in the colors mentioned in the song,
dance the English Weavers’ Dance. The grand
finale is the march of handwoven coverlets—flfty
of them carried by girls in old-fashioned cos-
tumes. \Vith these as a colorful background the
picture is complete.

The Carroll County advisor organized this.

And yet another—the development of pottery
from prehistoric times to the more advanced In-
dian, then early Colonial times, Civil war period
and finally our own modern pottery. Two huge
replicas— one of the \Villow plate, and one of a
\Vedgewood \-’ase--—served as background for
separate groups of dances.

Recreation advisors in Rockingham and Straf-
ford counties engineered this.

Results: Several groups

the puppets being made from
wood. i
The recreation advisors in
Belknap and Grafton coun-
ties were responsible for this.
A third day—the same set-
ting. As the rock tapper
breaks open the rock, girls
dressed as jewels dance
forth onto the green. As
they hold their poses, a beau-
tiful rendition of the Faust
Jewel Song is given by a
young woman representing

30

New Hampshire has an interesting and
unique set-up for its E.R.A. leisure time
program in that although funds are for
the most part provided by the State
E.R.A.. the workers are associated with
the Extension Service of the State.Uni-
versity. Miss Ethel Worth, in charge of
the programI is Recreation Specialist in
the State Extension Service. The county
recreation workersl known as recreation
advisorsI bear the -same relationship to
the Extension Service as do the 4-H Club
leaders and other county workers. At
the request of the Governor the National
Recreation Association helped in organ-
izing the programI initiated in April I934

are repeating the whole pag-
eant or scenes from it for
Old‘ Home Day' celebrations
or for some special event.
For many it was a real
holiday—they picnicked or
camped along the way up and
back. Some had never seen
that part of New Hampshire
before and did not realize its
beauty. All had real fun tak-
ing part, and many gained
valuable eXperience in pag-

A STATE EXPERIMENT IN RURAL RECREATION 31

eantry, music and dancing,
which will help in their own
communities.

Another scene—this time
in Durham —— shows 116
young leaders between 15
and 25 years of age playing
new and different games on
the playfield, under the di-
rection of a corps of ten
leaders trained under the
state recreation advisor in a
four day course. Following
this training these leaders
conducted the play meet for
the Camp Carlisle boys and
girls each afternoon during
their camp. To see three
hundred and fifty girls on
the play field moving from -
one game to another with—
out confusion, thus giving
each of these girls an op- i
portunity to play eleven dif— |
ferent games, was worth
watching; the boys did like—
wise, two hundred and fifty
strong.

An added feature of the in— ,
stitute was the formal party held for and by these
young people to make them acquainted with the
etiquette of such an affair, including invitation,
receiving line, social dancing, and seeing the girl
home! Much was learned through this experience.

The scene changes once more to a crowded
lecture hall with the audience a bit drowsy from
listening to many speeches. A ten minute relief
period between periods give opportunity for rec—
reation advisors to lead the group in singing, mo-
tion songs, and coordination stunts.

The curtain has just gone down on the last of
three nights of plays and while the audience waits
for the decision of the judges a junior symphony
orchestra from a nearby town plays for their
amusement. Everyone is pleased when Sullivan
County with its play “Cloudburst” comes in first,
Rockingham with “Not Quite Such a Goose” sec—
ond, and Carroll with “The Bishop’s Candle—
sticks” third. Most of the audience and all of the
casts retire to another room to hear the criticism
given by the judges. A great interest is manifest.
In many cases the county would not have entered
had it not been for the leadership of the recrea-

uh-

I
_' I

.,'-1 .—.r..:.:—_:7.. k

.af
2',
Fla-ii
l'“

-1-

:.-""l:- “xv-I: ’"'  .. ' - . as I? ' ‘1'   ah}-

 

Walter KingI eighty-four year old
singing master, who led the sing-
ing school group and sang two solos

tion advisor there. Still an-
other change of scene, and
groups are showing how our
grandparents and great
grandparents had their rec-
reation —— an old-fashioned
singing school, led by an 84
year old man, a quilting
party with square dancing
as part of the fUn, and
finally an old-fashioned
wedding, with couples who
had been married fifty years
as special guests. The finale

a choir festival of 75 voices,

demonstrated what go od

music can be sung with the
right amount of effort and
leadership.

These last few events
were the result of the com-
bined efforts of the state
and county advisors.

A type of community
gathering which was tried
out with much success at

Wilton in the Spring proved
equally successful in the fall
in the form of Foliage and
Harvest Festivals. The Monadnock Region As—
sociation called on the Recreation Service to help
in the staging of a dancing and singing pageant in
honor of the fall colors in and around Jaffrey. At
Deerfield a Harvest Festival brought together
school children for folk dancing, choral groups of
adults for songs, and a combination of partici-
pants and audience in community singing. A
number of other towns have condUCted similar
festivals.

The communities of New Hampshire have re-
sponded with enthusiasm to the suggestion of
community nights. The programs, planned and
conducted by a committee' from the community
under the guidance of the county recreation ad-
visor, is participated in by the entire community,
young and old. The activities include community
singing, folk dancing, and group games both
active and passive.

A practical demonstration of community serv-
ice was made in connection with the fairs at
Rochester and Lancaster. Part of the fair grounds
was fenced off and play equipment and leaders
were provided in this space so that mothers could

32 A STATE EXPERIMENT IN RURAL RECREATION

leave their children to be taken care of while they
attended the fair. In one instance over two hun-
dred children were thus cared for. A second rec-
reational feature of the fair was an exhibit at
Rochester which showed indoor and outdoor play
equipment, and a miniature playground with out-
door fireplaces, swings, tennis and baseball courts
and other facilities. A similar idea was carried out
at the Sullivan County 4-H Fair where not only
a miniature play center was exhibited but also a
splendid hobby exhibit conducted. At Tufton-
boro the entire program was turned over to the
County Advisor who arranged a Mother Goose
Pageant, a program of individual competitive
sports, and a picture demonstration by the Home
Management Specialist.

A nve-part program in recreation has been
planned for the 4-H Clubs of the state which in-
cludes games that are adaptable for club meet-
ings. games for the home. music, folk dancing,
and tramping and trailing. Interest is running
especially high for tramping and trailing. This
program suggests various kinds of hikes which
can be taken by the club—Hobo, Point to Point,
etc.; new ideas for outdoor meals cooked over an
open fire; snowshoe tramping, nature trails, skat-
,ing parties and the like. One county held a win-
ter carnival planned by and for the 4-H Club
members, with ski races, snowshoe dashes, speed
skating and the like. At an informal carnival con-
ducted by a local 4-H Club leader, several rural
schools combined and produced some snow model-
ing worthy of mention. Cooking their noonday
meals over an open fire in one corner of the school
yard was a feature they
enjoyed almost as thor-

play exchange in which each of several towns
produce a play in their own and all of the other
towns in the exchange is being conducted in a
number of the counties.

In order to make this temporary program of
permanent value, community recreation councils
or committees are being formed. The members of
these committees not only represent various lead-
ing organizations, but also have a special recrea-
tional interest in dramatics or music or outdoor
sports or social recreation. These leaders are
urged to attend institutes, to keep in close touch
with the county and state recreation leaders, and
to be informed on any recreational activity of in-
terest to their community. Young people especially
are being included in these committees. Only in
this way can a sound recreation program for rural
communities be established.

One special study made in the Washtenaw
County, Michigan, Rural Recreation Survey, cov-
ered one school and one school district in each of
the twenty county townships. It was found that
the average area of the school grounds was a little
less than a quarter of an acre; that not more than
twenty-five per cent have sufficient space for a
thirty—nve foot softball diamond, the only organ-
ized game generally played. There were no facili-
ties for tennis in the country districts and only
very limited facilities for baseball. Less than
15% of the children knew how to swim. Many
communities were without facilities for pic-
nick-ing.

“\Vhat seems to be the great social and recrea—

tional need,” says Dr.
Henry S. Curtis, director

oughly as the game period
and trail through the
woods in the afternoon.
Constant use is being
made of the three-act play
loan service established
this winter. One hundred
and forty plays donated
by several publishing com-
panies compose a library.
Anyone in the state may
borrow three of these
plays at a time to be kept
for one week. Thus a bet-
ter opportunity is given to
choose the most suitable
play for production. A

A FEW ACCOMPLISHMENTS

A Spring training course for coun’ry workers

Ten coun’ry ins+i+u+es aHended by 748 vol-
un+eers from I25 organiza’rions

A Spring fesfival

A number of county summer camps for
women, girlsI boys and en’rire families

An exfensive life saving program

A four-day camp training course for S+a+e
Junior Leaders

A series of five diFFeren’r pagean’rs on ar’rs
and craffs

A s+a+e fes’rival—"Good Times in fhe Old
Times"

Fall fraining courses in fen coun’ries
A sia’re-wide Winfer Sports Club program

An indoor communi’ry cen’rer program
l’hroughouf fhe state.

of the study, “is some cen-
tral meeting place indoors,
with an auditorium for
movies, lectures and per-
, haps preaching on Sunday;
a gymnasium for dances

and parties; a social room
for neighborhood meetings,
and a swimming pool. Out-
of-doors there should be a
place for tennis and base-
ball, with a garden and
nursery, and at the back,
if possible, a picnic grove.
They are quite as essential
to the rural community as
they are to the school.”

1

Seeing the Northern Rockies on Foot

By CARROLL LANE FENTON

HE VVEST—pinnacles of red and brown rock
Trising from sage-tufted plains. The West—

snowy mountains and deep valleys dug by
. vanished glacial ice and now lined with rich for-
ests of cedars, firs and lodgepole pines. The West :
a world of beauty and primitive romance; of pasts
that stretch back through ages to days when the
earth itself was young.

This world, once inaccessible, was brought to
our reach by railways. For forty years they suf-
ficed, with tallyhos, saddle horses and pack out-
fits to take visitors among peaks and lakes.

Then came the automobile. More flexible than
the railway, it followed the tallyho and crossed
passes once remote. As roads improved, cars im-
proved also, until they promised to invade any
mountain range or valley. They served well—
much too well! Trains took us and put us down,
to do and explore for ourselves. The automobile
takes us and then sits waiting, ready to hasten us
away. It begs us to glance and hurry on; to “do”
this range in an afternoon, drive a hundred miles
on for dinner, and skim through another scenic
region tomorrow. Increasing thousands motor
westward—and a few hundreds see the West.

To know the real W' est, you must travel many
miles of high, narrow trails, where eagle, bighorn
and mountain goat pause to watch you pass. You
must climb ancient ladders cut in rock and look
down into precipitous canyons from the doors of
stone-age huts. You must walk beside glacial
lakes in valleys where moose and caribou pasture.
You must skirt snowfields on the Great Divide,
and at evening come to a cabin of red rocks
perched among twisted pines. There a mountain
woman will give welcome and a cook will pre—
pare you a meal of such size that you never would
dare eat it at home. But you will eat it, and a
large breakfast, too, without a
thought of, the knicknacks that are
served to tempt you in hotels.

But where, in the vast distances
of the West, is there country to be
traversed on foot? \Vhere are vil-

lages like those of Switzerland and France, where
Monsieur Z’Aubergiste awaits tourists even among
the mountains?

There aren’t any, and that is one beauty of the
region. You may walk for a month in the Rockies,
yet never pass through a town. But trails, inns,
food are other matters. For what are national
parks equipped, if not to care for those whb walk
as well as the others who ride? _

Not all parks, of course, are equally good for
the traveler who wants to hike. No one would see
the Yellowstone on foot unless endowed with
superabundant time and one or two burros to
carry baggage. The Grand Canyon has awe-in-
spiring trails; but he who would “do” the Canyon
on foot must burden himself with pack mules and
a guide, or must carry a painfully heavy load over
dusty trails where the sun beats down with sub-
tropical heat even in April. The Yosemite is beau-
tiful and cool—but its holiday crowds often sug-
gest those on beaches near New York .

Four Regions Supreme

I doubtless am prejudiced; but four regions
seem to stand supreme among hiking districts of
the \Vest. One is Glacier National Park, with its
neighbor, \Vaterton Lakes, in Alberta. Another
is Jasper Park, where the hiker must be sup-
ported by horses to do a really thorough job. Next
come the mountains and valleys stretching west-
ward from Banff, a perfect pleasure ground for
those who want to hike from camp to camp with-
out the burden of food and duFFle and with relaxa-
tion at line hotels. Last is Canada’s Glacier Park
among the magnificent Selkirks. It has neither
cabin, camp nor hotel-——-the hiker must bring his
own bedding and tent, be his own guide, camp-
tender, cook. In reward he has wild life, glaciers

Are you going to the Rockies this summer? Let
an experienced troveler tell you how best to
see this world of beauty and primitive romance.

33

34 SEEING THE NORTHERN ROCKIES ON FOOT

Let the horses carry the
tents and supplies while
rou have the icy of fol-
owing the longer trails
through the mountains

and high peaks, with good
trails, yet with that soli-
tude peculiar to a moun-
tainous region untouched
by motor roads.

In American parks the
hiker may find himself
looked down upon. Rang-
ers lead trail parties, it
is true, but tradition says
that a bus or a horse is the proper means of get-
ting about. Canadians are more informal: their
peaks were visited by hikers and climbers long
before good trails were built. No signs warn that
hob-nailed boots are forbidden in dining rooms.
and railroads schedule hiking trips to the more
spectacular valleys. They even sponsor a hiking
club, “Trail Hikers of the Canadian Rockies,”
operating from Banif and Lake Louise, but seud-
ing information from the Windsor Station in
Montreal. The club plans four or five day hikes,
transfers baggage during trips, engages glacier
guides and packers, and even supplies alpenstocks.
Costs for this service, food and shelter are a little
more than $6.00 per day. Measure that by an in-
dependent trip, on which you will pay $7.50 for
the glacier guide alone!

The guide’s service is required, of course, only
when you plan to cross ice. For the rest, take the
trails alone or in parties of family and friends.
Routes are marked and thoroughly safe; with a
topographic map and some caution you even may
strike out through country where the only trails
are those of game. If you photograph, have a
camera ready: deer, moose, bighorn and moun-
tain goat often pose obligingly.

As you may vary sights and routes, so you may
choose accommodations. You may stop at the best
hotels any national park on this continent offers—
their rates, by the way, are by no means so high
as boastful rumor reports. You may leave them

for simple log cabins in valleys, where moose.

waken you in the morning as they clatter down
gravel paths. Go on to more remote tea houses,
hanging between precipices and valleys dug by

Courtesy Carrol! Lane Fenton

 

glacial ice. Then return to your neglected car,
visiting the motor camps that line the road through
Kootenany Park. Or put tents, bedding and food
on horses and, leaving them in care of a guide,
lead forth on longer trails through the mountains.

Expenses? They vary also. If you stay strictly
by motor camps they run astonishingly low, for
good food in Canadian towns is cheaper than in
our own Northwest. A more liberal plan yields
greater returns, for many worth-while things lie
beyond reach of daily hikes from the camps. Al—
low stops at cabins, tea houses and hotels, com-
pensating by periods spent in your own home tent.
Following this plan we have spent four summers
in the northern Rockies on budgets only slightly
greater than those of home. I shall not bore you
with figures, for three of those trips were made in
times when fares, cabin rates and food were far
higher than they are today.

Whether you come by motor or train, start hik-
ing on the trails about Banif. There are good and
easy trails along valleys cut among sharp gray
mountains of tilted and twisted gray rocks. There
is also the “million dollar view,” which is all the
guide books say and more, since it tells a story
of vanished glaciers and rivers pushed out of
their paths. As for beauty, every photograph
shows it, but even those in natural color fail to
give its quality.

Lake Louise deserves four days to a' week. Its
trails, though well graded and wide, lead to spec-
tacular peaks or the edge of grinding glacial ice.
Ptarmigan lead their chicks among heather; a pica
spreads his hay out to dry on red rocks near the
head of the lake. Mantled ground squirrels come

SEEING THE NORTHERN ROCKIES ON FOOT 35

to beg, and pack rats make collections of bright
things dropped by campers and hikers. They
don’t always wait for things to drop, and often
cut shiny buttons from carelessly handled coats.

Take road or trail to Moraine Lake, which
hides below ten red-and-bufi’ peaks each more than
ten thousand feet high. Then back to Lake Louise,
and across the Continental Divide. Cars may be
left at \Napta Camp while the party hikes to Lake
O’Hara, the one rival of Louise. There are few
trails leading from it, but they offer views of
great beauty and chances to study mountain plants.
Open slopes allow for hikes at will, without even
a map for; guide.

From Yoho Camp, reached by road or trail,
there are routes leading to high basins, lakes and
the grim foot of Yoho Glacier. Moose feed in
iDuchesney Lake, and at least one handsome bull
has learned not to fear human beings. But use a
telescopic lens, for he is not really neighborly.

An easy route leads on to the chalet on the
shore of Emerald Lake. Harder, but more beau-
tiful, is that which climbs toward Burgess Pass,
reaches a fire-protected camp ground and then
drops suddenly to the valley. Tent, bedding and
food can be sent up for three dollars; stay until
the suPplies are eaten and pack your remaining
duffie downhill. But don’t let that word “down-
hill’ deceive you; unless you are thoroughly hard-
ened to loads, thirty-five pOUnds will seem like
three hundred by the time you reach the foot of
that trail!

There is another reason for taking the trail fol-
lowed by that steep descent. Like most of the
northern Rockies, those about BanfT, Lake Louise
and Field are formed of rocks laid down long ago
under shallow, shifting seas. Those seas con-
tained varied life: seaweeds, sponges, shellfish,
bristled worms and queer, flat creatures with
jointed bodies whose only name is trilobites. On
sands they died and disappeared, but in limes and
muds their remains were preserved as fosil ani-
mals and plants.

Corals and shells of the early Coal Age lie in
the tilted cliffs above BanfT. More ancient beds
outcrop at Ross Lake, not far from the Conti-
nental Divide. Near Burgess Pass is a dark gray
ledge whose fossils, rarely abundant and perfect,
have made it famous throughout the world. Even
if you have no collection it is worth while to visit
that quarry, search the scattered slabs for re-
mains, and contrast these records of ancient seas
with modern lakes, glaciers and mountains. But if

you expect to take fossils away, first get appro-
priate permission from the National Parks office
in Ottawa!

From Emerald Lake an excellent road leads to
the railway town of Field. You may motor west—
ward to Golden, but must take train to the Sel-
kirks—there is no other way to go. Leave it at
the village of Glacier and get the one Ford in the
place to take your duffie to the camp ground
where the famous Glacier House once stood.
There you’ll find wood, shade, water and a place
to put your food beyond reach of ground squirrels
and bears. A porcupine will be your neighbor,
but since quill-throwing is a myth this is no cause
for alarm.

The selkirks once were a mecca for moun-
taineers of America and Europe. Today they are
almost deserted—which means you may enjoy
good trails and still have solitude. For glacier
work get a guide from Lake Louise; without one,
take trails upon Mount Sir Donald, to the tip of
Mount Abbott and across Baloo Pass. In the
meadows near Nakimu Caves there are grizzlies;
the caves themselves are strange tunnels worn by
water from glacial ice. Reserve at least one even-
ing for the sunset, which stains with rose, ver-
milion and purple the snowy peaks north of Rogers
Pass. It’s a perfect ending for your visit in this
land of high peaks and ice.

Expenses? I promised not to give figures—but
here there are no rates to change. On our last
four days in the Selkirks we spent $5.92 above
railway tickets and observation car fares. Of
these, fifty cents went for hauling duffle and the
rest for milk, oranges, lettuce and more substan-
tial items of food. Less than $1.35 per day for
two, permitting some fliers in luxury at Emerald
Lake and Louise . . . .

Can you afford not to see the \Nest when bud-
gets are reduced like that?

“But spring will come. The ice will break
up and melt away; elms and maples will
venture into leaves; hemlocks and firs
will arouse themselves to a fresher green.
Grasses will cover the hills and the

meadowlands. And there will be bird
songs in the air. Then will come the time
for the good sport of hiking over the

countryside.”——Harry A. Overstreet in
A Guide to Civilised Loafing.

 

Adventures Over the Radio

1111: JACKSONVILLE Depart—
T ment of Public Recrea—

tion is sponsoring a novel
club known as the Junior Road
to Adventure Club, which each week broadcasts a
serial under the title, “Peter and Peggy in Story-
Book Land.” Competitive auditions are held for
the various parts and all the individuals con-
nected with the production are volunteers.

The Recreation Department is especially
fortunate in having, in Mr. Martin Fabian, a
volunteer worker whose hobby is the presen-
tation of radio plays. Mr. Fabian, a civil en-
gineer by profession, First became interested in
radio drama through the technical problems in-
volved in producing sound effects. As a result,
he spends much of his leisure in building de-
vices for the accurate reproduction of sounds
over the radio. His generosity, both in the ex-
penditure of time and money, has made it pos-
sible for the Department of Public Recreation

Presenting. from
left to right. the
operator of the
sound etiects: the
announcer. Smoke-
wreath: the narra—
tor; Peter and
Peggy. who are
woven into every
production: the di-
rector ot the pro-
duction; Prince
Charming: Cinder-
ella: the Fain/God-
mother and the
two sisters.

36

By NATHAN L. MALLISON

Superintendent of Recreation
Jacksonville. Florida

to present unusually inter-
esting and worth while pro-
grams which are arousing
much favorable comment.

Most of the good scripts for radio presenta—
tions are copyrighted and sold by syndicates.
Mr. Fabian believes that good sound effects
must have good plays, so he has purchased a
series of scripts with most happy results. \Vhile
children's fairy tales are the theme of the broad-
casts, the fan mail indicates that more adults
listen to the program than children.

Many so-called children’s hours, especially
those which have been commercialized by com-
panies dealing in articles of merchandise for
children, are insipid affairs which even the
children will not tolerate. \Vhen time and ef-
fort are expended on a program to insure an
artistic’ production, even adults will listen, the
experience of the Jacksonville Recreation De-
partment attests.

 

WORLD

 

To make possible the
fullest appreciation
of the dramatic of-
ferings of the Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, 1934—35 theatre season, the
Extension Department of the Public Schools
each Tuesday evening at one of the social
centers holds drama and music previews. At
these previews the coming week’s events on
the theatre board are discussed. If there are
no special attractions on the program of the
following week, the evening is devoted to the
reading and discussion of some outstanding
modern play, some topic of the theatre or
musical demonstration studies.

If You are Going
to the Theatre

 

Accidents on muni-
c i p a l playgrounds
are few, the ratio of
all mishaps being 2.8
to each Ioo,ooo visits to the playground, accord-
ing to the 1934 report of the Department of
Playgrounds of the District of Columbia.
Nevertheless, a determined effort is being
made to reduce this ratio, and with the co—
operation of the Women’s City Club, the
American Automobile Association, and the
Metropolitan Police Department, an interplay—
ground campaign for safety and for playground
beautification was conducted from April I
through September 30, 1933. Several patrols
were organized on each playground. The W'o—
men’s City Club offered an attractively de—
signed certificate to each playground which
showed improvement in the appearance of the
grounds and in its safety-record. The AAA
presented three handsome banners, first, sec-
ond, and third place to the grounds having the
highest record each month. Keen interest in
many communities in the beautification of the
grounds brought generous gifts of shrubbery,
rose-trees, furniture, curtains, and enlisted the
assistance of many adults who painted furni-

ture, made curtains and helped in garden
activities.

Making Washington
Safe for Play

AT PLAY

An interesting ac-
tivity fostered by the
Recreation Commis-
sion of Phoenixville,
Pennsylvania, is a series of travel talks running
through the winter which are given by resi-
dents of the city who during the past year
have taken interesting trips. For example, one
speaker motored across the country spending
considerable time in Arizona, New Mexico and
the Grand Canyon. Another, a florist, spent the
summer in Holland among the bulb growers.
Reading, Pennsylvania, has also adopted this
plan, which is working out very successfully
in both cities.

Travel Talks
Popular

The community
house at Dedham,
Massachusetts, is an
historic m a n s i o 11
built in 1799. The house was in a sadly neglec-
ted condition when it was'turned over to the
Dedham Community Association in May 1922,
and it has been gradually restored to its present
state. It is open to the people of Dedham and
to others for all kinds of leisure-time activities
—-—social, educational and recreational. In it and
on the grounds about it is conducted a con-
tinuous all the year round program of gather-
ings and activities for young and old alike.
Frances M. Baker Park, including within its
limits the landing place of the original settlers
of Dedham in 1636, was a gift to the associa-
tion in 1927. It adjoins the grounds extending
to the Charles River and provides space for
tennis courts, other outdoor games and a swim-
ming beach.

The Community
House at Dedham

In Subdivision De-
velopment circular
Number 5, issued by

the Federal Housing
Administration, minimum requirements are set

forth for the. physical characteristics of sub-
divisions and of the properties within them.
Among the requirements on which special

37

Subdivision
Development

38 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

TENNIS for TEACHERS
Bv HELEN I. DRIVER

Instructor in Charge of Women's Tennis
University of Wisconsin

0 A manual for the recreation leader, and teacher of
Physical Education. Contents include analysis of seven

strokes, common errors and teaching progressions for
each; practice organization for beginning and advanced
groups; tactics, tests, and tournaments: organization of
tennis programs. Price $2. Detailed description
sent upon request.

Orders, accompanied by full payment should be directed to
H. I. DRIVER. Lathrop Hall

University of Wisconsin. Madison. Wis.

emphasis is laid is the following: “Appropriate,
adequate and conveniently accessible schools,
parks, playgrounds, and shopping centers shall
exist or they shall be definitely in prospect.
Dedication 0r reservation at a reasonable cost
of sites for schools, parks, and playgrounds
shall be considered bona fide evidence of intent
to provide these three types of facilities and
preliminary arrangements shall have been ef—
fected for making them available.”

The camping
magazine

If you are interested in

      

The leadership ot youth.

The swiftly changing methods in organized
camping.

The statements ot leading thinkers on educa-
tion through camping.

Leadership training—Counsellor's Education.

Camp Programming—Administration.

Outdoor Sports and Activities.

New Games, Land and Water.

Swimming—Canoeing—Sailing.

Riding—Archery—Ritlery.

Woodcratt—lndian Lore—Nature.

Artscratt—Dancing—Stunts.

Council Fires—Story Telling.

   
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
 

Then read the Camping Magazine regularly

 
 

Send tor a sample copy $2.00 a year.

Lane Hall, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Dept. R

 
     
 

 

 
 

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

l Recently Received Containing Articles 2
ot Interest to the Recreation Worlter

 

MAGAZIN ES

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, March 1935
Hobbies for Girls, by Ruth Nichols

Leisure, March 1935
Coaches for a Miniature Napoleon, by Ellen Hill
Dramas W’ithout Dialogue, by Will Anderson
\Vhit—Tennis, by Milton Connelly
Make It a Kitchen Party, by Frank L. Havey
Ted Tinker—Tinkerer

Safety Education, March 1935
The Ancient Kite in the Modern Sky, by Marion
Hol'brook .

Parks and Recreation. February 1935
Emergency Conservation Work in the National
Parks, by John D. Cof‘iman
Recreation and Reconstruction, by L. H. Weir
Curling, An International Sport, by Irwin R. Dunnelt

The Parents’ Magazine, March 1935

The Busy Child Gets Well Fast, by Marie \Villcox
Abbott

Educational Method, March 1935
Grand Rapids Schools Develop Children’s Hobbies,
by Helen K. Mackintosh
How the Museum Contributes to Leisure-Time In-
terests, by Jane A. White
Elementary Industrial Arts and Leisure-Time Inter—
ests, by A. Adele Rudolph
Is Your School Educating for Leisure? by Eugene

T. Lies

Education for Leisure: Recent References, by Edith
A. \Vright

Recreation and Juvenile Delinquency, by Katharine
F. Lenroot

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
March 1935

Dramatic Activities of the Berkeley, California, Rec-
reation Department, by Charles W. Davis

The Use of Basketball Skill Tests for Girls and
Women, by Helen A. Moser

PAMPHLETS

Charlton Community Center Leisure Time Program,
Board of Education, Newark, N. J.

A Study of Rural Community DeveIOpment in Water-
ville, N. Y. ‘

Cornell University AgricultiJraI Experiment Station,
Ithaca, New York

Report of the Monroe County Regional Planning Board“
for 1934

Thirteenth Annual Rport of the Park Department, Rec-
reatton Bureau of the City of Passaic, N. J., 1934

First. Annual Report of the Board of Recreation Com-
missioners, Summit, N. J., 1934

1935 Spring and Summer Outings of the Westchester
Trails Association

Westchester County Recreation Commission, White
Plains, New York

Adult Education and Recreation Report of the Board of
Educatzon——Elmira, N. Y., 1934

WORLD AT PLAY 39

New HEYDAY HOUSE Hits:

The new best-seller in entertainment
books is Gerald Lynton Kaufman's
delightiul "IT'S ABOUT TIME"—a
treasure-chest oi clock and watch puz-
zles. problems. tricks. games. curiosi-

Iust out—the exciting new de-
tective game ior competitive
playing—battling picture-clue
mysteries that require eyes.
wits. Speed. and are grand
fun to solve!

ties and philosophy that will test yogr
wits. arouse your imagination and otter
a thousand rich and thrilling hours oi
tun—appeals to everyone.

. IT’S ABOUT
TIME

 

 $1.50

by GERALD LYNTON KAUFMAN

 

BRINGING

 

 

SHERLOCK HOME

by LAWRENCE TREAT

Coming! NAMING QUINTUPLETS. by J.
Bryan. III. and MAY 1 LEAVE THE ROOM?
by G. Lawson Kendall—$1.00 each. Ask for
these Heyday House Hits at your bookstore.

DOUBLEDAY. DORAN a. CO-INC

 

E. R. A. Concerts in Boston.—On January
24th, the hrst of a series of free public E. R. A.
concerts was held at the Boston Opera House,
presented by a selected group of 88 profes-
sional musicians representing the best per—-
formers of the E. R. A. Symphony Concert
Orchestra and the F. E. R. A. Symphony
Orchestra. Free tickets were distributed
through the sectional committees of the City-
wide Emergency Committee on Health and
Recreation. Two outstanding soloists volun-
teered their services for special numbers. In
spite of the blizzard and zero weather, 600
people were present.

Annual Meeting of the American Associa-
tion for Adult Education.—The Tenth Annual
Meeting of the American Association for Adult
Education will be held at the Hotel Schroeder,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, May 20, 21, and 22.
There will be sessions on public schools as
adult education centers; adult education in
rural communities; adult education under
public auspices; vocational education and ad-
justment for adults; rural library service; a
vocational interest of adults; training com-
munity leaders; readability, and mechanicial
aids to learning. Further information may be
secured from the American Association for

Adult Education, 60 E. 42d Street, New York.

A Hobby Round-Up.—From May I to II,
1935, the Leisure League of America, Inc. will
sponsor in New York City “a national exposi—
tion of hobbies, sports, games, arts, handicrafts
and other diversions organized to display and
demonstrate in an animated, colorful and

dramatic way the activities and accomplish-
ments of the many organizations and indivi-
duals engaged in furthering wholesome leisure-
time activities.” The exhibit, which will be held
in Commerce Hall, Port Authority Building,
will be under the executive management of
Robert Everett Associates, Inc., 232 Madison
Avenue, New York City.

A Hobby League.—The Playground and
Recreation Association of Philadelphia has
established a hobby league which is arousing
much interest. Hundreds of ideas on hobbies
have been assembled. A consulting group has
been organized who are experts on various
phases of leisure-time activities and who will
answer questions. Hobby clubs and groups will
be formed. Four workers are giving full time to
the project.

A Children’s International Fete in Japan.—
In November the Tokyo Y. W. C. A. held a
Children’s International Fete, introducing the
festivals of four seasons in many lands. Among
the countries represented were: Afghanistan,
America, Canada, China, Denmark, England,
France, Holland, India, Ireland, Japan, Mexico,
Philippine, Poland, Russia, Siam, Sweden,
Scotland and Turkey.

The Dog as a Playfellow.———Dr.- Henry S.
Curtis, Director of the FERA Recreational
Survey in Washtenaw County, Michigan, writ—-
ing about the dog as a playfellow says, “He is
probably the most valuable piece of apparatus
available as he leads to much activity and has
a strong emotional appeal. This is coming out

4O

WORLD AT PLA Y

 

Clean

FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children of play is the oim

of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the don-
gers and dirt in dustl It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An opplicotion ofSolvoy Floke Calcium
Chloride on grovel or earth surfaces
effectiver ends the dust nuisonce. And

Solvoy Colcium Chloride kills germs.

The photomicrogrophs pictured here

.- show you the results. 347 cultures in the

S 0 LVAY

untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treoted with Solvoy Colcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor season

on your playgrounds. Send today for
full information and booklet No. “59.

tured by The Solvoy Process Company

New York

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
..-..  ._.,. Alkalies and Chemical Products Monufac.

40 Rector Street

C TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

Cnholuma

 

 

rLAKE—77%—so%

SUNSHINE

strongly in the study we are now making of
summer activities. For the only child in the
country the dog offers the only Opportunity
for vigorous play, and for many others he is
more important then any other kind of play
equipment. He is an excellent playfellow and
leads to much running and romping out-of-
doors. The pet in general, and the dog in
particular, has a large place in child direction,
and the boy or girl who has grown up without

one will probably be socially poorer for all the
rest of his life.”

May Day—Child Health Day.—The stamp-
ing out of diphtheria has been chosen as the
special project for this year’s May Day—Child
Health Day, according to an announcement
issued by the American Child Health Associa-
tion. Further information may be secured from

the association at 50 \Vest 50th Street, New
York City.

Activities of the Opera Nazionale Dopola—
voro.—The Italian government has issued a
beautifully illustrated volume entitled “De-
velopments and Realizations. of the Opera
Nazionale DOpOlavoro” which gives the his-
torical development and accomplishments of
the Leisure Time Organization established for
the benefit of workers. Accomplishments are
classified under four headings: Physical Cul-
ture (Sports and popular games—Italian Fe-
deration for Excursions); Artistic Education;
Popular Culture and Professional Education,
and Assistance (hygienic, sanitary, social dis-
counts, facilities, social assistance.) An exceed-
ingly broad program of activities is embraced
in this program which is the coordinating body
for thousands of small societies.

Recreation in Institutions—C. M. Goethe of
Sacramento, California, who for many years
has been devoted to promoting the recreation
movement and who was one of the first to work
for the international play movement writes
that he is supplying to certain of the residents
of an institution for the insane packets of post-
age stamps. Officials of the institution have
found that stamp collecting has not only re-
creational value but in some instances curative
value. Another resident of Sacramento is per—
forming the same service for tubercular patients
in a local institution.

WORLD AT PLAY 41

Tenth Annual Seminar in Mexico.—The
Committee on Cultural Relations with Latin
America announces the tenth annual seminar
in Mexico to be held in Cuernavaca and Mexico
City from July 3rd to July 23rd. The seminar
will consist of three weeks of lectures, round
table discussions and field trips which will
supply a general introduction to Mexican his-
tory, economics, art, international relations and
archaeology, under the leadership of outstand-
ing Mexican and American authorities in many
fields. Further information may be secured
from Hubert C. Herring, executive director of
the committee, 287 Fourth Avenue, New York

City.

The South-Wide Leisure Time Conference.
-——The second annual South—\Vide Leisure
Time Conference will be held May 3rd to 8th
at Nashville, Tennessee. Sessions will be held
at Scarrit College for Christian \Vorkers and
the Y. M. C. A. Graduate School. Further in-
formation may be secured from Dr. \Valter L.
Stone, secretary of the conference, 5oo—21st
Avenue South, Nashville.

The N. E. A. Convention—It is suggested
by officials of the National Education Associa—
tion that delegates attending the 1935 conven-
tion to be held 'for a week during July come
prepared for an all summer vacation. For the
convention is to be held at Denver, and with
the National Parks, Mountain Parks and the
inexhaustable outdoor facilities of Colorado, a
delightful vacation period will be assured.
Information regarding the convention may be
secured from A. L. Threlkeld, Superintendent
of Schools, 414 Fourteenth Street, Denver,
Colorado.

Tennis Tournaments in Detroit—Last sum-
mer the Detroit Department of Recreation,
assisted by the Detroit News, staged a novice
tennis tournament open to the residents of
Detroit and any city, village or town within
forty miles of Detroit. A novice was construed
to mean any player who had not won a city or
district championship. Approximately 2,000
people registered for the tournament. The plan
of operation was to have any town or com—
munity entering conduct a tournament of from
32 to 64 players, including both men and wo-
men. The winners and runners-up of these
community tournaments competed in Detroit
for the metropolitan championship.

 

NEW RIGID WHIRL

THE newI improved Louden Rigid Whirl is the last

word in mechanical perfection and design among
Whirl-Around playground devices. Measures l2’ di-
ameter by 9' high . . . accommodates 50 children at
one time. Extremely sturdy. long-lived. safe. A new
free Louden book, interesting. instructive, is iust off
the press. It illustrates and describes the complete
line of Louden Playground. Beach. pool arid Gym
Equipment. Write for your copy today. No obligation.

LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

M anutactu red by

J. E. PORTER CORP.

Ottawa, Illinois

   

l20 Broadway,

 

On the Grandstand

(Continued from page 4)

fication of such diversions began. Before this
grand publicity, sport had its players but not its
fans. It is difficult to resist the lure of pages upon
pages of professional baseball, college football
and prize fights u hen .we have them before our
eyes every morning and evening. The enormous
crowds at certain prize fights, for example, were
brought together only because the public interest
had been jazzed up by a clever publicity of the
training details until the“final contest gradually
came to appear as an event of primary import-
ance. This advertising of sport now parallels the
advertising of merchandise. One wonders how
the average man or woman can keep enough of
the family income to pay for bread and butter.
W' e are lured to buy by high pressure sales cam-
paigns and yet we somehow survive. Many spec-
tators are those who come not from any innate
interest but because they cannot resist the sports
ballyhoo. '

“Is your boy interested in athletics ?" queried
one mother of another. '

42 NAT M. WASHER

Tennis Courts

0 Improve your clay or dirt courts with
Her-Clay De Luxe Top Dressing. ‘

Two attractive colors—deep green or

dark red.

Dustless — eliminates glare — improves
footing and general playing qualities
of any clay court.

The cost is low. Literature and com-
plete information furnished upon re-
quest.

Inquire about the famous HAR-TRU
Fast Drying Tennis Court

HAR-TRU CORPORATION

Recreational Construction Engineers

13 East 45th Street New York. N. Y.

“I should say he is,” replied the other. “He
stays in bed every Sunday morning and reads all
the sport pages in the newspapers!”

This boy’s attitude is surely one of bovine qui-
escence unless he has some other outlet for his in-
terest in athletics than mere vicarious spectator-
ship. And many people only read and look upon
action, either mental or physical and never have
any desire to be more than a spectator. The con—
firmed theatregoer, the movie fan, is living vi-
carously as is the bookworm or the man who is
always found in the grandstand. Pleasures taken
vicariously are recreation and a recuperative pro-
cess, but like too much sameness in a diet, they
produce a badly balanced life.

It is not the impressive millions spent by Amer-
icans for grandstand, theatre and movie seats or
attendance at commercialized sports that can be
criticized. These all represent legitimate avenues
of release from fatigue. of recuperation and
pleasure. It is the entire surrender to their lure
because it is the easiest way, which is deplorable.
Recreation is an activity of body and mind no less
than work and we should seize upon the most de-
veloping, the most releasing kinds. Dissipation

 

Nat M. Washer

NAT M. WASHER of .San Antonio, Texas, who
died early in February 1935, was Chairman of the
\Var Camp Community Service Committee at San
Antonio during the World War and for many
years had been a warm supporter of the National
Recreation Association. He assisted in raising
money for the organization and put his influence
behind the movement. In recent years he had
served as President of the Texas State Board of
Education and for many years he was a leader in
the civic, educational, business and fraternal life
of San Antonio, and was largely responsible for
the establishment of the San Antonio Public
Library. At the time of his death, the flags at
Austin, the state capital, were lowered to half
mast, and at the hour of his funeral service
classes in all the San Antonio public schools and
colleges were suspended, as was also the operation

of the San Antonio public library system.
_______________

 

and idleness and monotony of play require fur-
ther recreation to offset fatigue. A mixed diet in
recreation is what we all need for the well—

rounded life.

The Japanese National Game: Go
(Continued from page 9)

multiplying rapidly. And inquiries are streaming
in from inquisitive and partly informed persons
.as to where and how they can learn to play.

Go, like music, can be learned from a relatively
few simple written instructions. But it is as im-
portant for Go students to witness good Go played
as for music students to hear good music played.
But to a Go student personal instruction is even
more important than to a music student. The rea-
son is this: Go students, unlike music students.
cannot easily detect their own mistakes.

Heigh-ho For a Merry Spring!
(Continufd from page 14)
torium was made, on which the plans for the
entrance, place of action, place of standing,
and the exit of each group were carefully
worked out and a place in the front rows of
the auditorium assigned to it for seating be-
fore the beginning of the festival. Full direc-
tions for each group, based on these plans,
were typed and given to the representative of
that group who had been chosen as “liaison

THIRTY-FOUR YEARS OF SERVICE 43

Thirty-four Years of Service

MRS. MARY J. COWLEY has just resigned from
the North Side Playground Association of Pitts—
burgh, Pennsylvania, after thirty-four years of
continuous service. Mrs. Cowley is still a mem-
ber of the Pittsburgh 30ard of Education, a posi-
tion which she has held for twenty-three years.

Recently a reception was held in Mrs. Cowley’s
honor in Pittsburgh with nearly 400 educators,
playground supervisors and' friends attending.
The City Council of Pittsburgh adopted a special
resolution of appreciation for the service of Mrs.
Cowley and all that had come through her efforts.

 

officer” between it and the festival director.
These liaison officers should meet with the
director shortly before the festival to go over
their instructions with him, to be sure to have
correct understanding.

About a hundred people who met each day
for a session in musical leadership learned all
the songs and sat in the auditorium as near as
possible to the piano as they sang them. A
public commtmity singing period held each day
gave opportunity for many people who later
came to see the festival to learn several of the
songs. Under ordinary circumstances this
learning of the songs by the audience might
be done in connection with regular meetings of
clubs and other associations attended by people
likely to be at the festival; and even a half-
hour or so of song-learning by the audience
just before the festival begins might not be
amiss.

Such simple festivals seem a most promising
means of bringing all sorts and ages of people
into growing participation and lasting interest
in ways of expression whose social and other
human values we all place at the top of the
scale, and whose delights are always as fresh
as a bright May morning.

Special Activities in Glens Falls,
New York

(Continued from page 19)
the bases, we bought a cobbler’s sewing machine.

\V e reopened the club again this winter the first
of February in the factory building used two
years ago, which is really better adapted to our
purposes as the one great room makes SUpervision
simpler and cuts down the cost of personnel. Our
program is practically the same as last year, ex-

 

AM E R I CAN
PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

V

THROUGHOUT the
country. American
Equipment is recog-
nized as the BEST . . .
outstanding construc-
tion and design features
assure absolute satis-

faction.

V

DURABILITY and SAFETY

Over twenty years experience is back
of every American Device . . . all built
to uphold American traditions of
Strength . . . Durability and Safety.
The American line is complete and in-
cludes every item which is safe and
practical for outdoor playgrounds.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON . . . . INDIANA . . . . U. s. A.

STRENGTH

 

 

 

cept that we are not opening until one o’clock and
are running only week days. The attendance is
somewhat smaller this season, a happy sign that
there is less unemployment. But the club is never—
theless well patronized and our Board of Gov-
ernors feels that we are doing no work that is of
greater value or that has accomplished more real
good. we are reaching a large group of men who
are by no means down—and-outers, but rather, in
the main, self respecting workmen, who throngh'
force of circumstances are either entirely out of
work or else employed only part time on relief
projects. A warm, bright, cheerful club of their
own, where they can putter around with tools as
they choose, has done much to keep up morale
and to give men courage to face these bitter days
of dire financial stress.

April Showers

(Continued from page 24)

“In the pond,” the players must all jump to the
side of the line designated as the pond. On the

44 APRIL SHOWERS

 

S U MMER
SESSIONS

PENN STATE

Inter-Session. June 11 to June 28
Main Session. Iuiy 1 to Aug. 9
Post Session. Aug. 12 to Aug. 30

College degrees for students and teachers of
Health, Physicai Education and athletic coaching
Seekers of degrees in Health and Physical Edu-
cation 13nd, Penn State's popular summer session
ideal. Combines thorough study with real vaca—
tion fun in the heart of the Alleghenies. Unusual
recreational opportunities. Modern gymnasium.
Tuition, room and board surprisingly low.

Graduate courses leading to advanced degrees.
Undergraduate courses leading to baccalaureate
degree. Special courses in athletic coaching for
men and women. Nationally-known coaching staff.

For catalog address
Director of Summer Sessions

The PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE

State College. Pa.

 

 

 

words, “On the bank,” the players most jump to
the side designated as the bank. Try to make the
players jump at the wrong time or fail to jump
when they ought to. Anyone who blunders must
leave the game. The last person to remain in the
game wins.

Noah's Ark

Divide the group into couples and give each the
name of some animal, bird or insect. A straight
row of chairs is placed across one end of the room
and a man takes his place behind each. The girls
are all taken out of the room and blindfolded.
\V hen the girls are brought in again they are taken
to the end of the room farthest from the chairs,
and from here each tries to find her partner and
occupy his seat. The only guidance the girls have
is the noise made at the other end of the room

when the men imitate the sound of the animal

assigned to them. After all have found their seats,
partners change and the men try their skill 'at
locating their partners.

Rainbow Stab
Using the large rainbow that you have for

SUBSCRIBE $1.00 YEAR

THE CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY

A Journal of Community Religion
RICHARD E. SHIELDS, Editor

How to Unite Churches
Articles by writers of

The Community Church Movement

     
         
     
       

Vital News. Religious Digest

TWlCE MONTHLY EXCEPT SUMMER
Published by

THE BUMMUNITY GHURGH WUHKEHS.U.S.A.

77 West Washington Street. Chicago

decorations, number the colors from I to 7. Play-
ers are formed into teams of seven each and then
are blindfolded, provided with a pin stuck through
a strip of white cloth, and sent up to stick this on
the rainbow. Each team is credited with the num-
ber of points represented by the color stabbed.
Team scoring the most points wins some rainbow
colored candy.
Bow Contest

Give each guest a pencil and paper with the fol-
lowing questions on it to be answered by words
beginning or ending in “be,” “bow” or “beau”:

Question: A :mvers
A Hallowe’en bow? , Bogy
An unconventional bow? Bohemian
A South American bow? Bolivia
A sausage bow? Bologna
A =bow without fraud or deceit? Bona tide
A rich yielding bow? Bonanza
A military bow? Bonaparte
A bow that’s always acceptable? Bonus
A poorly fed bow? Bony
An acid bow? Boric
An animal bow? Bovine
A ne’er—do—well bow? Hobo

Beau Brummel
Bowie knife.

A dandy bow?
'A how that is a dangerous weapon?

On the Wild FEW Trail

(Continued from page 26)

This unique type of herbarium with its poetical
interpretation gives word pictures that increase
the pleasure of examining the Flowers. There are
often several quotations accompanying a single
Flower.

\Vhether the collector makes a scientific ap-
proach to his work or whether his treasures are
arranged for beauty’s sake alone, to follow the
wild Hower trail is to reap a pleasurable reward.

Planning For Recreation
(Continued from page 28)

and horses. Some months ago we bought him
a pair of rabbits. Today he showed me a plan
he has made for an iinderground dwelling he
is going to build for them as they have grown
considerable in number. And so a rabbit farm
has been added to our husbandry and the boy’s
hobby or perhaps vocation has been established.

Hobby and Vocation. In the same way pho-
tography, ~stamp collecting, arts and crafts,
music', dancing, acting, the making of puppets,
soap carving, basket weaving, chair caning,
gardening, poultry raising and farming are the
natural hobbies of boys and girls at our school.
These are all interests which do not allow time

PLANNING FOR RECREATION 45

for loafing and the spread of “gangish” spirit.
Hobbies supply needed entertainment and rec—
reation. They satisfy normally the desire to
show off, to get approval and to attract atten-
tion. The greatest importance, however, is the
fact that a hobby can become a source of a life
adventure and a vocation.

The Social Value of Hobbies. As the result of

the constant contact of our pupils with nature,
the desire arose to serve less fortunate broth-
ers in cities and towns who never had the
privilege of tramping through fields and woods.
Appreciating the inexhaustible treasures of
nature in every bush and brook and tree, these
boys and girls wanted to find a way to share
some of this wealth with the children who
could never search for the first spring flowers,
or go berrying, or scoop polliwogs from a pond.
And they did find a way, for they began to pre—
pare some collections which they mailed to
public schools, settlement houses, children’s
clubs, hospitals, homes and similar organizations.

These young nature lovers try to make each
package which they call “nature’s parcels” in-
teresting. Each package is different, accord-
ing to the season and the adventures of the
amateur scientist. Things are being packed to-
gether that belong together—the broken egg
shell in the right bird’s nest; the fungus with
the moss from which it grew.

For each parcel the children prepare a cata-
logue, and here is where the “study” part of
the program becomes acute. Each item must,
of course, be given its proper name and a brief
description, and since the catalogue is to be
sent abroad in the name of the school, a sense
of purpose and responsibility make the students
very earnest in their researches. The pupils
who are more artistic than scientific in tem-
perament write poems or imaginative stories
about their discoveries, and all help to deco-
rate the catalogue and make it attractive in ap—
pearance as well as content.

And so we have established friendships with
many people and have brought happiness to
many children—an accomplishment which we
think is in harmony with nature’s plan.

A Successful Bird Club

(Continued from page 29)

puzzle to members of the club, all of whom have
an elementary knowledge of bird life.

PUT
DIAMONDS

ON YOUR

PLAYGROUND

Equip your playground with Dia-
mond Pitching Horseshoes and
accessories. The line is popular
with amateurs and professionals
alike. Damond products need little

replacing. Shoes are drop forged
steelw—will neither chip nor break.
XVrite for new catalog P. S. l.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 Grand Avenue, Duluth. Minn.

 

The rugged \Vest Virginia hills shelter no lakes
and the region is more or less barren of water-
fowl. The Bird Club to some degree makes up
'for this deficiency by staging an annual expedi-
tion to the lake regions of Youngstown and Niles,
Ohio, for the observation of waterbirds.

In the course of the club’s field work a number
of state and regional records of the occurrence of
birds have been established. The 1934 field pro—
j ects selected by club members range from a nest-
ing census of Oglebay Park to the study of the
behavior of individual birds. A reward of a bird
book to be selected by the writer of the best paper
describing his field work of 1934 has stimulated
activity in this direction for the season and some

interesting papers are anticipated in the 1934-35
season.

The club is sponsor for'the first time this year
of a regular exhibit in the Oglebay Park Nature
Museum, opening with an exhibit which not only
contains the club’s compiled Spring migration list
but includes an effort to dramatize the marvels of
bird migration. This exhibit is to be changed from

46 A SUCCESSFUL BIRD CLUB

crammed with hundreds of
illustrations of things to
make. listing blue prints of
them all. telling where to
secure materials. containing
valuable suggestions on shop
operation. etc. Over 375
things to make for pleasure.
usefulness. proht.

Send I2c. today.

'2‘ brings You 80 PAGES

 Popular Mechanics
"I Magazine

Dept. E

200 East
‘ Ontario St.

Chicago. l".

time to time to keep progress with the seasons’
interests.

Started as a small study group of a dozen mem-
bers, the club membership now has passed three
dozen and additional membership applicants are
present at virtually each of the monthly meetings.
Three honorary members have been designated
and have accepted this recognition.

The club publishes through the efforts of its

 

members a monthly mimeographed journal, The
Redstart, which publishes ornithological activities
of its members. In addition it tells of activities of
the three clubs which the Brooks Bird Club has
organized. among beginners in the general area
and which are affiliated with the senior group.
_These include the Roney’s Point Nature Club. of
Triadelphia, W. Va. (an organization of twenty-
five rural people) the Triadelphia High School
Bird Club, with a membership of thirty-eight, and
the Niles, Ohio, Bird Club with a membership of
twenty-eight. The club recently voted to add a
class of corresponding members open to bird
students anywhere and primarily intended to give
a state—wide flavor to the club’s monthly journal.

All in all, the Brooks Bird Club has opened to a
number of individuals fascinating new fields for
spare time activities. A merchant and his wife, a
truck driver, an industrial office executive, ste-
nographers, clerks, skilled mechanics and repre-
sentatives of other widely divergent industries and
professions are included within the comparatively
small membership. Nominal dues are assessed to
pay for the publication of the paper and other

club purposes.

The

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH and RECREATION

.D I G

EST

CHARLES D. GIAUQUE. Editor
Professor of Health and Physical Education, Boston University

offers you the gist of the leading articles of the month from a

hundred publications.

1

An easy way to keep up with your reading in recreation
and the allied fields of health and physical education.

"An article a day: a dollar a year."

Send us a dollar (or ask us to bill you) for a year's subscription

The DIGEST
29 Exeter St.

Boston.

Mass.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Tennis for Teachers

By Helen I. Driver, Lathrop Hall, University of Wis-
consin, Madison, Wisconsin. $2.00.

HIS is a text book for the teacher of tennis. It is
Tplanned for both individual and group instruction, so
that the recreation leader, tennis professional, and teacher
of physical education in school or college may use it in
planning their tennis programs. The contents include
analysis of seven tennis strokes with common errors and
teaching progressions for each. Various types of group
organization for backboard and court practice, with sug-
gested lesson plans for beginning and advanced students,
are emphasized. Tennis tactics, tests and tournament
organization are included in the twenty-one sections of
the book. References at the end of each section list ad-
ditional reading material from the well known tennis
books. The book is in mimeograph form, containing 105
closely typed pages, illustrated by fifty diagrams and
sketches. It is bound in a flexible cardboard cover.

I consider this book one of the most practical texts on
tennis which has been put out up to date. The material
is unusually well organized and teachers should find it
most helpful. -——BLANCHE M. TRILLING.

It's About Time

By Gerald Lynton Kaufman. heyday house, Garden City,
New York. $1.50.

We are indebted to Mr. Kaufman and the newly or-
ganized “heyday house” for this clever and ingenious
treatment of Time as a Pastime. There are ten, unusual
picture puzzles to be numbered and rearranged in their
correct time sequence; twelve absurdly mixed up sen-
tences to be straightened out, and a number of unique
time tricks and games which will provide entertainment
for many a party. Heyday house, under the direction of
Jerome S. Meyer, offers us insurance against boredom in
its forthcoming publications and games. We advise our
readers to be on the lookout for these publications as
they appear. They are bound to be novel and entertaining
if the sample offered is any criterion!

Popular Crafts for Boys

By Edwin T. Hamilton. Dodd, Mead and Company, New
York. $3.00.

THIS book, the latest of the splendid “Hamilton on
Handicraft” series, contains fourteen crafts selected
because of their popularity with b0ys. It includes car-
pentry, mask making, block printing, book-binding,
leathercraft, pottery, tin-can-craft, miniature modeling,
trick photography, soap sculpture, paper mosaic, plastic
wood modeling, art metal craft and wood carving. Step
by step instructions with accompanying line sketches have
been given for making at least one article of each kind.
Photographs show the finished article. A carefully selec-
ted list of dealers, an up-to-date bibliography and an
index complete the contents.

“Do not forget,” urges the author, “that this is a fun
book and not a work book. If the making of any article

is not fun, do not pursue it. Keep looking until you find
the one just for you.”

Easter and the Spring

By-Nina B. Lamkin, Samuel French, New York. $.50.
THIS is one of the interesting “All Through the Year
Series” which brings to the teacher, club, church or
community leader, varied and attractive material for
boys’ and girls’ groups which may be easily adapted to
the various ages. The material is so planned that it can
become a part of the regular work of the groups by
distributing it as follows: The songs and the appreciation
of the instrumental music in the music hours; the games,
dances and rhythmic drills in the physical education and
recreation hours; the costume, decorations and properties
in the industrial arts hours, etc. The booklet provides

ready to use programs and references for every occasion
at Easter time and in the spring.

Compton's Pictured Encyclopedia

F. W. Compton and Company, Compton Building, 1000
North Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois.

HERE are fifteen volumes of information so attractively

presented and with articles so interestingly and
vividly written that learning is made a real adventure and
joy. That this beautifully illustrated Encyclopedia has
value in the development of leisure time interests is
evident to anyone who gives it even a cursory examina-
tion. Plays and games, athletics, nature activities, holidays
and festivities and other subjects in the leisure time field
are presented in articles which represent a wealth of
fascinating material. The Encyc10pedia is outstanding for
the ease with which it can be used. Every letter is com-
plete in a light-weight, handy, easy-to-use volume.
Scientifically constructed Reference-Outlines for organ-
ized study follow each major subject. Every outline gives
page numbers for cross-reference. The Compton Fact-
Index containing more than 100,000 entries and located
at the back of each volume in its natural place—enables
the student to turn to the exact page for every fact and
every picture in the fifteen volumes.

Swimming

Compiled by Frederic J. Haskin. The Haskin Informa-
tion Service, let and C Streets, N. W., Washington,
D. C. $.10.

COMPILED in cooperation with the American Red Cross,

the purpose of this booklet is not primarily to in-
struct beginners how to swim. It does, however, carry
a great deal of practical information about what to do
with the ability to swim once it is acquired. There are
many illustrations in the booklet, which has a brief
section on swimming pools.

47

48 NEl/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Masks and Costumes.

By F. W. Bosserman. Recreation Division, South Park

Commissioners, Chicago, Illinois. $.35. . O
The latest pamphlet in the Lewure Hobby Series issued

by the Recreation Division of the Chicago South Park
Commissioners is entitled Masks and Costumes. It starts
with simple cut—out paper masks and leads the craftsman
through flour sack and cotton stocking masks into the
more difhcult papier-mache mask where methods are
presented for making particular types of masks such as
helmets. character masks, Hallc'we'en and grotesque
masks, and masks portraying animals, Indians and similar
types. In the same way costumes start with simple burlap
bags and from that point describe costumes to be used
for well known characters and various types of per-
formers. Recreation workers will find this unique com-
pilation exceedingly valuable. The pamphlet may be
ordered either from the National Recreation Association
or from the Recreation Division of the Chicago South

Park Commissioners.

Nature Education: A Selected Bibliography.

By William Gould Vinal. School of Education, Western
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. $.75 plus postage.
Professor Vinal has performed a real service 1n com-

piling this carefully selected ‘bibliOgraphy for the use of
nature leaders and nature students who wish a list of
books that is accurate and at the same time interesting.
It is a bibliography of pOpular books for the lay reader
as contrasted with the technical books for specialists.
The book has been arranged in seven groups—Humanized
Biology; Animals; Birds; Gardening; Insects; Physical
Nature Study, and the Plant World.

The bibliography, which is in the form of 82 mime-
ographed pages, is offered at cost price with the hope
that it will be immediately useful not only to teachers,
to parents, to recreation leaders and to camp directors,
but to libraries and educators in general.

Social Studies— An Orientation Handbook
for Hiqh School Pupils.

Prepared under the Guidance of William McAndrew.
Little, Brown and Company. Boston, Mass. $1.60.
“What is this high school all about?” In this hand-

book, written for the pupils themselves, a number of
sympathetic authorities have attempted to answer this
question asked by hundreds of bewildered boys and girls.
The articles have been grouped under three main head-
ings: You and Your High School; You, the Individual;
You and Your Community. The chapter on You and
Your Leisure was prepared 'by Eugene T. Lies of the
National Recreation Association. Written in popular
style in language which bOys and girls can understand,
this [book is practical, interesting and stimulating.

Branch Library Book News.
December 1934. New York Public Library, 2¢

This issue of the News, a supplement to the bulletin
of the New York Public Library, contains an interesting
article on Little Theatres in the Branch Library, showing
how through the use of relief funds for painting, repair-
ing and remodeling unused rooms and libraries may be
converted into attractive little theatres. In the Same num-
ber will be found a list of children’s books published in
1934, with a brief digest of each.

Our Public Schools.

Published by The National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, 1201 Sixteenth Street Northwest, Wash-
ington, D. C. $.25.

The past few years, with their clouded issues and

emergencies which have resulted in confusion regarding
the proper evaluation of the best things in life, have
brought about a need for stimulating and vital informa-
tion concerning our public schools and a “rededication

_throughout the United States to those American ideals

of education which it must be our indomitable will to
preserve.” The National Congress of Parents and Teach-
ers has sought to meet this need by publishing this booklet
in which a number of noted educators and leaders in
American life have described the educational plans and
policies of America in the light of their historic back-
grounds. Throughout the compilation of articles emphasis
is laid on cultural values and on the responsibility of the
school in training for the use of leisure.

The American School Board Journal, January 1935.

Bruce Publishing Company, 524-544 North Milwaukee.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $.35.
This issue is devoted to school construction and will

be of special interest to all concerned with school plan-
ning. All phases are considered from gymnasium con-
struction in the modern school to air conditioning. Re—
creational planning in relation to school plant planning
is also discussed. A large number of photographs and
plans make this issue exceedingly valuable.

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOSEPH Lee, President
JOHN H. FINLEY. First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. KIRDY, TreaSurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MR5. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS1 Seattle, Wash.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.
MR5. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FDANcIS DELACY HYDE, Plainiield, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIRDY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIED, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
J05.er LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTo T. MALLRRY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittshurgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEY, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTII, Jn., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WAIBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
MRS. WILLIAn H. WOODIN, Jn., Tucson. Ariz.

