Kidnaping Less Likely in "A Friendly Universe"

IDNAPING a child is almost the most cruel crime. Just now each night nearly every one in America
K reads the details of one such crime as the trial of a person accused of kidnaping takes place. There
are those who suggest the whipping post as the best means of preventing such crimes! Make

an example of the guilty and fear will deter others!

Under such conditions as are faced today recreation workers may well ask themselves the ques—
tion whether playground and recreation center activities under the government in our cities can be so
directed as to make kidnaping less likely. Is it not likely that boys and girls growing up from day to
day in recreation centers where they are thoroughly happy in learning to do the things they really
want to do. where they joyously carry on certain activities “just for fun” will think of their gov—
ernment and of society and of people not as their enemies, but as their friends?

Many of an individual's contacts with government are not particularly friendly. The
police function is essential. but much of the time not pleasant. The fire department renders great
service. but associations again are not often pleasing. Health regulations are irksome. On the other
hand. every one wants to live, every one wants a measure of comradeship. some one to talk to; oc-
casionally even there are persons who are willing to listen to others talk. Nearly every one wants
adventure. romance. 3 chance at friendship. If government and society in general can be associated
in the average individual’s mind as friendly, as doing something positive for happy living. not merely
as negative policing—then the individual thinks more in terms of “The Friendly Universe.”

Economic security, provision for old age, for sickness. for emergencies. is important. but it is
not all. Most men cannot live happily without warm human contacts. There is much talk of one
mechanical universe, of the way the modern world substitutes machines for more personal services.
Are recreation workers in their understanding of the religious, literary, artistic history of mankind.
continuously. perhaps unconsciously, striving to create a more friendly universe, such that men can-
not so easily treat any fellow men cruelly and inconsiderately?

Many crimes could not be committed by individuals with quick imagination. with warm
human sympathy. Coldness. indifference,to one’s fellow men. callousness are essential, if one is to
be a kidnaper. Suppose in the municipal community recreation centers men have sung the old folk
songs together. have danced together. have themselves participated in dramatic plays requiring and
developing imagination. suppose they have learned games which they have played with their own
children, have learned what human ties can be built in happy homes. suppose they have learned the
joy of creating beautiful objects with their hands. of nurturing flowers. shrubs, suppose life to them

is full and rich and satisfying—will it not be harder to think of kidnaping. to think of breaking 11p
other homes? Will not violence and greed likely be more difficult?

The world is complicated. There is no one way out for crime prevention. And yet recrea-
tion centers have their contribution to make in creating and keeping happy normal human beings.
The degree of success.depends in part, of course. on the quality of leadership, the kind of person-
ality and character of the leaders themselves. Nearly all men want to live in “A Friendly But Not
Too Friendly Universe” such as recreation centers help to build.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

FEBRUARY 1935

 

509

 

Leisure Time Recreation

By FRANK KINGDON
President. Dana College

HERE ARE AT least three

kinds of leisure that we

shall have to face. In
the first place there is the
leisure of the young people
who normally in their
school life have a certain
amount of time in which
they can do as they like.
Their problem is not parti-
cularly different from the problem that faced
you and me when we were youngsters, except
that with the large concentration of population,
the children of the citiEs have an altogether
different kind of a situation facing them in
their leisure time from what faces a child
growing up on a farm. It isn’t any less interest-
ing. I am frank to admit that I happened my—
self to be a city boy and was born and brought
up in the city, so that I spent my leisure time
on the city streets. And when I hear some-
times those who were brought up on farms
telling about all the occupations and all the
delights they had, I think they pale in some
ways into significance by comparison with the
fascinating delights that a child on the city
streets has, with all the kaleidoscopic changes
of city life going on about him, with construc-
tion work going on, with all kinds of traffic
proceeding, with the pagcntry of the city’s
life continually unfolding before his eyes.

Nevertheless, there is a distinct problem
there as our cities grow larger and larger, as
population becomes more and more concen-
trated, a vcry definite problem of handling the
leisure time of the children.

Now the second kind of leisure time is that
which belongs to those who are employed but
who have more leisure time than they used to
have. Their leisure time is pretty largely a time
for relaxation from the work which they have

tion of the

Dr. Kingdon's address. published
here through the courtesy of the
New Jersey Municipalities in
which it originally appeared. was

given before the annual conven-
New Jersey State
League of Municipalities held in
November I934.

 

been doing. It is the time
when they can lay aside
the normal routine of every
day work and give them-
selves over to whatever
pleases them. That is a very
distinct question of leisure.

But there is a third kind
of leisure time which I sup-
pose will be increasing in
importance in our social structure, and that
is the leisure time of those who are never to
be employed again. It is a perfectly amazing
fact how many people there are in our Ameri-
can life now who are unemployed and who will
never again be employed in the normal chan-
nels of industry. How many of them there are,
nobody knows. Suppose that we accept the
figure of the American Federation of Labor
that there are now something like 10,800,000
people unemployed. I think that it is a fair
estimate to say that of those practically eleven
million people, there are at least five million
who will never again find employment in the
normal channels of industry for various
reasons. In some instances, the shifts in in-
dustrial locations have moved an industry out
of a given region, but left the population be-
hind, a population that has been trained in
particular skills that will have no relation to
their future life, men who have been trained
so long in those skills that they can’t easily
shift to another group of skills.

Then there are those who have grown old
during the depression. Remember that a man
who is 45 years of age is practically out so far
as the large industrial concerns may be con-
sidered. He will never again be able to find
the active place which he was able to find, in
the industrial structure.

511

512 LEISURE TIME RECREATION

Social Dangers in Leisure

30 there are these groups of various kinds
who will never be employed again, and they
represent a very large amount of leisure time
which has to be provided for. It is one of the
curiosities of our growing human life, that as
we progress and when I say “progress”——I
mean by “pr0gress” the continual mastery of
our environment, the ability to control our
world more and more effectively. As we pro-
gress along those lines and increase our power,
there does come an increase in leisure. As there
comes an increase in leisure there comes the
danger that that leisure will be used for pur-
poses that are not desirable. And so progress
always carries along with it the threat of
degeneration. I suppose that while there have
been a good many explanations of the fall of
ancient civilization, that one of the explana-
tions is unquestionably this, that civilizations
up until our time have never learned how to
use their leisure time constructively. Leisure
time has been merely a time of indolence,
merely a time of laziness, moral flabbiness has
come into the social structure because people
have been idle. And as a result of that moral
flabbiness there has been the progressive decay
of civilization itself.

Now it is one of the paradoxes of our human
life that as we gain in
mastery we c0ntinually
create new problems, and
it may well be that
leisure has a great
many dangers in it-
self for us. I think
it does have some
very definite dangers,
that if we are not
careful, the leisure
time of our people,
the increasing leisure
time, will become a
liability to the state
and to the nation. ' ‘ ' a
For example, if we
treat these men wlm
are forced into idle
time through no fault
of their own, if we .
force them to think I '
of themselves as be-

17‘ .

"There are sleeping geniuses, but even
if there are not sleeping geniuses there
are sleeping talents, sleeping delights"

 

Court”? Ohio Sefdirn' and 3000':' 0:14:05 Home face and

ing somehow less virtuous because they have
this time to do as they like with, we shall
be wounding their personalities.

And at that point I want to say this, that
leisure time does not necessarily mean time
for loafing; it doesn’t necessarily mean idle
time. \\’hat you mean by leisure time is time
which a man has and which he can use with-
out being under the compulsion of economic
pressure to do a certain thing. In other words,
leisure time is that time in any man’s life when
he can do exactly as he likes. It may be, the
time when he does the thing that he does best;
it may be the time when he discovers himself
more fully than he can discover himself at any
other time; it may be the time when he makes
his 'major contribution to society. Inventors,
for example, are very likely to use their leisure
time for prosecuting the particular investiga-
tion in which they are interested, and out of
that may come something that may be of
particular value to society.

\Vhat I am trying to say is that as we think
of leisure time we must think of it not merely
as time wasted, but as time in which certain
capacities of men which cannot find expression
in the normal channels of industrial life, can
come to the surface and express themselves.
Unless we get an attitude like that toward
leisure we may work very
great damage to the per-
sonalities of these men who

are fOrC‘ed to idle-
though
they do not them-
selves want to be
idle.

Then I think there

is a social danger
that leisure time
lends itself to, un-
critical, unintelligent
social unrest. \Vhen
men are idle their
unleashed imagina-
tions are uncontrol-
led imaginations;
their social discon-
tents, unintelligent
social discontents
-- can come to the sur-
express

HCSS CVCH

LEISURE TIME RECREATION 513

themselves in a dangerous
way. I don’t mean by that
that I am opposed to social
discontent. I think social dis-
content is a very excellent
thing because it is a part of
that universal human dis-
content which has made all
progress possible. If men
weren’t discontented with things as they are,
they would never be any better than they are.
But there is a difference between a really
critical and intelligent discontent, and an un—
critical and unintelligent discontent, a differ-
ence between the uncontrolled emotional ap-

proach to social questions and the controlled‘

and persuasive critical approach. One social
danger that lies in leisure is the fact that dur-—
ing leisure time there may come the unleashing
of these merely emotional discontents which
may be working against society.

I suppose I need not speak of crime. Leisure
time easily lends itself to the prosecution of
crime; and easily lends itself to the development
of certain unsocial recreation so that anybody
looking at the general question of leisure can see
immediately that if we leave it alone, if we don’t
do anything about it, this increased leisure time
may become a very serious liability in the
whole social structure. Ordinarily I think when
we look at it we think of it in those terms.

I don’t know how many people, when we
have been discussing social questions some-
where, have said to me, “How are you going
to deal with this new leisure; isn’t this new
leiSUre itself dangerous?” The answer is that
if we don’t do anything about it, it is dangerous
and may be the very basis out of which the
destruction of society itself may come. But it
doesn’t need to be that. It is only that if we
drift into this whole question of leisure and
do not really face the thing positively and
control it.

Guidance Needed

No sailor yet ever drifted into port. If you
drift you simply end in disaster and chaos.
There is only one way to save yourself from
that kind of a conclusion, and that is to set a
goal and steer for it, to set your course and then
follow that course right through to the end that
you want to reach. If society is not going to be
overwhelmed by the very leisure which the

"Leisure and human happiness—
there is a significant and more than
casualirelationship between these
two. It is only with leisure we are
able to taste happiness. It is only
with leisure we are able to measure
in any human terms at all the value
of living."—Artbur Newton Pack
in "The Challenge of Leisure.ll

mastery of society is produc-
ing then it must take thought
concerningoleisure and it must
do some constructive plan-
ning for leisure. It may be
that by controlling leisure,
instead of making it a liability
we can turn it very decidedly
into an asset. But as you
know, if we are going to do that, with most
people they are going to need guidance, they
are going to need very definite guidance.

You can’t expect the average man who has
been trained in a philosophy of work, who has
been taught to look upon idle time as time in
which he merely does nothing, or the nearest
thing to nothing that he can do—let us say
play bridge——but the average man when he
thinks of leisure simply looks upon it as a time
more or less to be wasted; and, trained in that
kind of thing, you can’t expect him suddenly
to take hold of this new leisure time and make
out of it something constructive. He has got
to be guided. And that is why I think, in
response to this growing need, there has grown
up the emphasis in our communities on recrea—
tion. Now the word recreation itself is rather
a dangerous word. When we think about re-
creation we are likely to think of some kind of
game, we are likely to think of playing some-
thing that we used to play when we were chil-
dren, and probably that is a part of the process.
But that isn’t all of it.

One of the most amazing things I know is
the capacity in ordinary groups of people or
individuals in whom you never expected it, to
express themselves through some kind of
creative artistic work. I told you that I was
born and brought up in the streets of a city——
and I was—in the slums of a city, and yet I
can remember as youngsters what we used to
do. I can remember one of my pals who had
a violin, and he would work by the hour to try
and get some music out of that violin. And as
I recall it he never quite succeeded. Neverthe-
less, very few people do, as far as that is con-
cerned—but he was-trying to express some-
thing in his spirit that was to Come out through
that violin.

I can remember another one of those yOUng-
sters who liked to take putty and mould that
putty into some sort of statuary, trying to
make it look like somebody he knew, or trying

514 LEISURE TIME RECREATION

to put into that moulded putty some form that
had impressed itself on his imagination. I
remember a boy that I used to go to school
with, and we used to meet every morning to
compare how our stories were coming along—-
we were both writing the “novel of the cen-
tury" at the time. \Vhat has happened to both
of them, nobody knows. But that isn’t the
point. The point is that there were two little
city kids who were trying to express a creative
drive that was in them—pitiful, of course——
but it was not only pitiful, it was magnificent
that out of the mud of the city there could come
music and statuary and creative writing, even
though it be of a very poor kind.

That is the thing that makes me have con-
lidence that in the great masses of our people
there is something more than just the mere
submissiveness, the mere indolence, the mere
worthlessness, that sometimes we allow our-
selves to see in them. There are sleeping
geniuses, but even if there are not sleeping
geniuses there are sleeping talents; there are
sleeping delights in those peoples’ lives, and as
leisure time comes along, if we can give it the
proper direction we are going to cull out some
of those talents and introduce into those lives
some of the joys that otherwise they would
not have. And that is what this whole recrea-
tional program
means. It isn't
just simply that
s0mebody is go-
ing to learn how
to chin a bar, or
somebody is go-
ing to learn how
to knock out a
home run, or
anything of that
kind: it is that a
constructive pro-
gram is going to
be worked out in
our total com-
munity life so
that these sleep-
ing powers in
our community
may come to
some kind of ex-
prcssinn.

 I) V  0 II S I  l‘wrlny Pull om! anuh‘ I!

when you are dealing with a new thing like
this you are bound to face a lot of mistakes,
and I presume that in your municipalities you
have sometimes found that the recreation di-
rector has not known exactly where he was
going, and that you haven’t been able to decide
just exactly what the program was all about.
That is perfectly true and there is nothing
abnormal about it at all. \\'hen you are ex-
perimenting with new social forces, new social
methods, you are bound to have periods of dis-
couragement, periods when the methods that
you have tried do not seem to be the true
methods. But what I want to drive at and to
put into your minds, is this, that when you are
dealing with the right kind of (lirection——-for
it is increasingly sure that you are not dealing
merely with some fad, merely with some frill of
municipal life, but that you are dealing with
something which has a contribution to make
to our total community spirit if it can be
worked out in terms of social vision and social
intelligence.

Sometimes when we are dealing with the
administration of finance, and I have to face it
in the administration of a school, as you have

(Continued on _"0_(}(' 549)

Volley ball games in Chicago, played
along the beach front at Jackson Pad:

 

 

Courtesv Boston and Maine Railroad

The Intercollegiate Outing Club Association

two decades have shown an

increasing .interest in the
recreational opportunities offered by college out-
ing clubs. The activities sponsored by these or-
ganizations range from roller-skating to moun-
taineering, from winter sports to horse shows,
and the ever increasing number of participants in
these Eelds is a significant demonstration of the
manner in which the younger generation is pre-
paring for the new leisure. These interests, de-
veloped in college, lead to lifelong enthusiasm for
the outdoors and instil a genuine appreciation of
the beauties of nature.

COLLEGE STI‘DEN’I‘S of the last

To help broaden the scope of the outing clubs
the Intercollegiate Outing Club Association was
formed. This association is an informal organiza»
tion of the outing clubs of twenty-two colleges,
the present membership being Antioch, Barnard,
Bates, Colby Junior, Connecticut, Dartmouth,
Jackson, Maine. Massachusetts, Middlebury,
Mount Holyoke, New Hampshire, Pembroke,
Skidmore, Smith, Swarthmore, Tusiculum, Union,
Vassar, \Vellesley, \Villiams and Yale. Its pur—
pose is too keep the different outing clubs in touch
with each other to the mutual benefit of all This
is done largely by issuing a bulletin three times a

By LEON E. MAGOON

Executive Secretary

year, holding an annual confer—
ence, a mid-winter ski week-end,
and sponsoring College Week and
joint trips.

The I.O.C.A. was started in May, 1932, at an
outing club conference held under the auspices of
the widely known Dartmouth Outing Club on top
of Mt. Moosilauke in New Hampshire. The as—
sociation was conceived by Ellis B. Jump, Dart-
mouth ’32, and it was' due largely to his efforts
that the Dartmouth Outing Club held the first
I.O.C.A. conference at which the association was
organized, and later sponsored it through its Erst
trying years. The officials are an executive secre-
tary and an executive board of two, who plan and
run the annual conference.

The association, through its executive secretary,
publishes an I.O.C.A. Bulletin three times a year
containing the reports of the member clubs’ ac-
tivities, conference notes, equipment suggestions,
and future plans of the association. This publi-
cation has already proved a valuable means of ex-
changing ideas and is the best way of keeping in-
formed about what is going on in other clubs.

The annual conference of the association, held

tlleihrst .week—end in May of each year, is the
(Continued on page 550)

515

Cities
Protect

!!EX sxow comes
w again to make the

winter beautiful
there’s an exciting tingle
in the air. Boys and girls
watch the first light flakes
anxiously. Maybe it’s just
a flurry after all. But when
it starts to snow thicker
and faster and the flakes
are as large as pennies
and of the quality that
packs into stout snowmen,
they know that it's time
to haul sleds up the cellar
stairs and beg a piece of
mother's clothes line to re-
place last year's frayed and knotted rope.

Next morning the world is white and they start
off, their sleds bumping along companionably and
the snow crunching pleasantly under foot. Soon
the winter festival of outdoor sports is in full
swrng.

When the Coasting Season Comes

As soon as the coasting season arrives, boys and
girls claim as their own the hills that provide the
best grades and the longest slides. When the city
has made it possible for these hills to be given
over to them for certain hours of the day, coast-
ing is a safe and healthy sport. But when the
hills must be sharecl with automobiles, trucks and
street cars it would be better for coasters if snow
never fell on those particular slopes. An edi-
torial on unprotected coasting places, which ap-
peared in the Boston Transcript several years ago,
was aptly headed “Down the Hill to Death."

Every winter death continues to waylay coasters
on hills open to traffic.

516

 

PI-oto by Hans Bl'Hm‘r, Berlin

By MARION HOLBROOK

Winter
Sportsmen

Many cities have stop—
ped the more serious coast-
ing accidents by closing
certain hills to trafiic for
six or seven hours a day,
including the late after-
noon and early evening
when most coasting is
done. Permission to close
the streets is secured from
the city council, the city
manager, or the police
commissioner, as the case
may be, but frequently the
streets are set aside by an
ordinance. The following
ordinance to r e g 11] a t e
coasting has been passed in Fulton, New York:

“No person shall coast .upon any public street.
sidewalk, lane, alley, avenue, highway or public
walk within said city upon any liandsled, bob-
sleigh, or similar device, except upon such streets
or sections of streets as shall be designated by the
mayor, who shall at the time of designating any
such streets or sections of streets also designate
the length of time, not exceeding four months,
during which such streets or sections of streets
shall be so used. and cause a notice of such desig-
nation to be published in the oflicial papers, and
such designation may be revoked during such
period in the discretion of the mayor. . . .”

Streets selected for coasting should be com-
pletely closed to trafhc if possible. In some cities
only cars driven by persons living in the closed
blocks are permitted to enter. Automobile clubs
have cooperated by sending to members a notice
describing the restricted hills. Business houses
using trucks might instruct drivers to make de-
liveries in the restricted blocks during non-coast-

CITIES PROTECT WINTER SPORTSMEN 517

ing hours. When it is imprac-
tical to close an attractive hill,
it should be covered with ashes
to prevent coasters from risk-
ing their lives in its traffic

traps.
The hill with few intersect—

ing streets is, of course, most

At the rislt of being repetitious we
believe it is worth while each year to
point out some of the hazards in-
volved in winter sports and to reem-
phasize the safeguards which will go
far to remove the dangers from win-
ter fun without detracting from its
'oys. The article presented here has
Leen reprinted from the January

I935 issue of Safety Education.

special policeman. A school
boy patrolman may be assign-
ed to this duty if he has the
proper authorization from the
police department. The sUper-
visor should be at the- hill a
few minutes before the coast-
ing hour to put up the barriers
and see that no early arrival is

desirable, and if it is a city of
many hills, safe coasting places
should be set aside in the various neighborhoods
so that no child will have to walk more than a
few blocks from his home. During coasting hOUrs
the street should be closed at both ends and at all
intersections with unmistakable barriers. Rope or
wooden framework, on which a large stop sign is
placed in the day time and a red lantern at night,
is used as a barricade. Ashes placed at the bot—
tom of the hill and at all crossings will keep sleds
from continuing under the barriers and will pre—
vent coasters from turning their sleds into side
streets.

Any movement to safeguard boys and girls
usually wins the prompt cooperation of the com-
munity. In one city a contractor donated the bar-
ricades; the street department placed them and
kept the lanterns filled, and the officers in charge
of the hills put them in place when they came on
duty. During non-coasting hours they were turned
back. In this Pennsylvania city eight hills Were
set aside for coasting and no serious accident oc-
curred, although total attendance for a season was
as high as 50,000.

Closing a hill to traffic does not solve all the
accident problems. The hill
should be supervised by a police-
man or a man sworn in as a

 

"_- J "i-

Photo by Han: Bittner, Berlin

This game known as "Eisschiessen."
is exceedingly popular in Bavaria

tempted to coast while the

street is still open to traffic. Coasting hours are
usually from 4:00 P.M. to 10 P.M. on school days
and are frequently lengthened to include the
morning and early afternoon on Saturdays and
Sundays. At the close of the period the man in
charge removes the barriers and, if he is genu-
inely interested in his job, lingers a moment to
see that every sled is started on its homeward
journey. He knows that the clear night and the
swift track are tempting, but one stolen slide after
the street has been opened to traffic may defeat
the safety program.

The coasting supervisor’s word is law when
disputes or disorderliness occur. Unless pre-
vented by some person in authority, older boys
frequently take possession, pelt coasters "with
snowballs, attempt to upset sleds and indulge in
other pranks that make coasting dangerous. All
spoil—sports and rule breakers should be banished
from the hill. If a few general rules, such as the
following, are explained to the coasters and rigidly
enforced, everyone will have more fun and there
will be fewer accidents.

Small sleds should be given the right of way.

Big bob sleds should be given
a start of at least fifty feet.

Small sleds and large bob

 

518 CITIES PROTECT HUNTER SPORTSMEN

Young citizens of Ger-
many agree with young
Americans that coasf-

ing is a great sporf! . I

sleds should go on
separate trails if pos-
sible, or the small
sleds should go down
while the bob sleds
are returning. The
greater speed of the
bob sleds creates a
hazard for the single
coaster.

('oasters should go
down on the right
side of the street and
back on the left.

But the big hill is
never a safe place
for little brother and
sister. 'l‘heir coasting
should be done on
the home lot. A. ll. Horwitz, city planning engi-
neer of Duluth, Minnesota, says in an article en-
titled “Safc \Vinter Coasting Hills,” which ap-
peared in RECREATION, February 1933, “A slide
as short as twenty-five feet, with a built-up snow
mound for a good start, will keep a youngster
under six happy for hours daily. \\’here there is
some slope to the ground the home lot may afford
a slide of considerable length. Permission for tem-
porary use of vacant lots can ordinarily be ob-
tained. Several slides can be built on such a lot
and various age groups served separately.” If
there is danger of sleds traveling into a street or
driveway, a snow bank or belt of sand or coarse.
sawdust can be used as a stop.

Photo by Man: Burner, Berlin

Skating Safeguardcd

When parks provide hills for coasting, tobog-
ganing and skiing, the beauty of the winter land-
scape combines with safety to make winter sports
inviting. l'laygrollnds, municipal golf courses and
tennis courts have also been made to serve year
round duty as sites for slides or artificial skating
rinks during the months when they are ordinarily
deserted. When these winter playgrounds are
under the sUpcrvision of the recreation depart-
mcnt, as they frequently are, boys and girls will

,4

  

find competent instructors to help them develop
skill in their favorite sports.

As sure as 32 degrees Fahrenheit means f reez-
ing, youthful skatcrs will venture on thin ice this
winter with tragic rcsults. \Vltere no artificial
rinks are provided. skaters should wait for the
signs that are usually posted in public places, an-
nouncing that the ice on lake or river is safe for
crowds. Shelter houses are often provided at
these skating areas and equipped with ropes, lad-
ders, poles and other devices to be used in case of
emergency. .

The element of security in safe hills, safc ice,
toboggan slides and ski jumps won't take the edge
off the sport. It ensures good times and allows
young people to get the most benefit out of hours
of play.

One of the best ways to make safe winter sports
popular with the young people of the community
is to organize carnivals which will attract large
numbers to the bills or skating rinks approved and
protected by the city. Once they have learned the
advantage of these spots they will want to return.
In one city a successful feature of a winter fes-
tival held on one of the safe coasting hills was a
prize offered for the most attractively dccoratcd
sled.

x A New Method of Protecting Ice Rinks

ITHIN the past three years
W ice hockey has become an

established winter sport in
the Rocky Mountain region in spite of the fact
that there has been little natural ice on streams or
lakes because of the exceedingly mild weather.
Four years ago, however. hockey players at the
University of \Vyoming at Laramie discovered
that it was possible, through the use of sacks, to
protect their ice rink from the onslaughts of the
sun. They could, they found, prolong skating
even when the ice everywhere else was practically
gone. So successful was ,the \Vyoming experi—
ment that hockey teams at Fort Collins, Long—
mont, and other Colorado cities immediately
erected sack screens at their rinks.

At first the sacks were hung on straight wires.
This did not prove satisfactory, as the wind
whipped the sacks around the wire, making it
necessary for the players to unwrap, almost every
morning, about 3,000 yards of burlap hung at each
rink. Now, at the municipal rink at Laramie, a
woven wire ceiling is used, the wire being similar
to hog wire. The sacks-—some 4,000 yards of
them —- are suspended from
this ceiling in rows. and, when
the wind blows, they merely

‘33.."-

‘5-

Bg AGNES W. SPRING
Fort Collins, Colorado .

A view of the rink at Fort Collins
showing how the burlap is suspended

flap against the wire and fall
back into position. This burlap
sack method of protecting ice is
simple and inexpensive. It has proven that hockey
can be enjoyed in ‘ Colorado, Utah, Montana,
\Yyoming, and northern New Mexico, at altitudes
ranging from around a mile high upwards even
though temperatures are not low enough to insure
lake skating.

At Fort Collins, with an altitude of some 5,000
feet, natural ice of excellent quality has been
maintained because of the shade obtainable from
the burlap curtains. Using a base of sawdust the
Fort Collins hockey enthusiasts created a rink
with about two inches of solid ice which remained
frozen for a long time. Another inch of top ice
took care of the regular daily wear and was
flooded each night after the players were through.

The Fort Collins ice proved. to be of such
splendid texture that although many times water
was standing on it at 6 o’clock in the evening and
the thermometer stood at 50 degrees, by 8 o’clock,
with the temperature at 40 degrees, skaters were
able to use the rink. Last year while the natural
lakes around the city were all
open, the hockey players en-

(Continucd on page 550)

 

Suggestions for Conducting

At the Essex County, N. J., Leisure
Time Institute of the ERA, Dr.
Kilander made the cheering an-
nouncement that the good old

days of informal and inexpensive
amusements are returning. He ot-
tered a number of suggestions for
making parties successful.

 

UMAN BEINGS are very gregarious; that is,
H they like to associate with others of their

own kind. It is the exceptional individual
who prefers his own exclusive company, and such
persons we call hermits and recluses. Wherever
people gather togther, some form of social enter-
tainment will inevitably be devised to help pass
the time away and to make the social relationships
more enjoyable. The average party or gathering
of today uses one or several of the following types
of diversions: conversation, music, social danc-
ing, card playing, physical games and social games.
This discussion will consider the last of these.

In recent years there has been a change back to
those informal and inexpensive forms of amuse-
ments which are readily adaptable to different
groups and situations. There has been a desire on
the part of many to get away from the type of
entertainment which is mainly limited to SOCial
dancing and card playing, both of which are so
prevalent today. People are again finding fun in
entertaining themselves with social games like
their parents and grandparents did. Games such
as Tea Kettle, Fruit Basket Upset, Murder,
Treasure Hunts and the many others may seem
childish to many people since they are largely
played by children. But these games can be of
equal entertainment and fun to adults and groups
of mixed ages when and if they are played in the
right spirit.

You have undoubtedly observed that identical
games and other diversions go over “big” on one
occasion and not so well at another time or place.
This is not a matter of chance or coincidence, but
is influenced by the individuals who are present

520

Social Games

By H. F. KILANDER, Ph.D.

Dean, Panzer College
East Orange, N. J.

and especially by the individuals who are in charge
of the planning and the directing of the program.
\Ve have all noticed that a party at the Smiths'
does not go so well, that at the Jones' it is nearly
always a success, that whenever John Brown is
present things seem to go a little more smoothly
and lively, and that when the Johnson family is
along there is always an abundance of laughter.
Just what is it that makes these differences?

The following list of suggestions on how to run
or direct a program of informal social games may
be helpful in making a party full of fun, laughter
and relaxation rather than one of boredom and
disinterest. The suggestions are particularly in-
tended for the host or other person who is in
charge of the program. A good leader who is
original, resourceful and alert will sense when or
when not to apply these hints. The particular 0c-
casion may be a child’s birthday party, an evening
with your own circle of friends, a group of
young people at a church party, a social evening
at school or the social entertainment in connection
with a club or Parent-Teacher meeting:

1. Plan the Program. Have all equipment such
as paper, cards, pencils or games prepared before-
hand. Have more games in mind than may be
used. Know how to play the games.

2. Let All Be Participants. Use games wherein
many or all may take part. Divide a large group
into several small ones or have several "it" at one
time. Games of elimination, even when they per-
mit many to participate, are not as desirable to
play unless they are interesting to watch. Start a
new game for those who are eliminated if the first
game lasts too long.

3. Keep the Games Moving. Be ready to change
to a new game before the present one becomes
{Continued on My: 551)

Quickening the Little Theatre Movement

s A MEMBER for many
. A years of a little thea-

tre group I have often
felt a need that is not gen-
- erally met by the conditions now surrounding
amateur production. That is the need of com-
petent, detailed criticism and evaluation after a
bill has been presented. During rehearsals the
players, if they have a vigorous director, generally
receive an adequate amount of critical comment.
But after the last curtain has gone down and the
production is a decaying bouquet, it is seldom that
a player is ever told by one who knows, just how
good or how rotten his work was. His friends
may shower him with compliments and he may
be mentioned by the local press. But that sort of
chatter does not usually satisfy his innermost
need.

In an art or craft the novice progresses by
making a series of tries and by modifying each
successive attempt in the light of guidance af-
forded by a master. But for this mentor the ap-
prentice would make but little progress.

The amateur producing groups connected with
colleges and high schools which possess dramatic
departments are pretty well provided with expert
guidance. But those without a dramatic faculty
and the independent groups—and these constitute
about a half of the whole amateur theatre—are
sadly handicapped in respect to competent criti-
cism. These are mostly voluntary bodies, spread
all over the country, active only a part of the time
and generally in a bankrupt or nearly insolvent
condition. How can authoritative evaluations be
brought to bear in an acceptable way and in more
abundant volume upon their productions?

In tackling this problem it is evident at once
that there is no feasible method of carrying this
expert criticism all the way to
each hamlet and province where
these groups now live. They
must, so far as possible, be as-
sembled in sectional bodies to
receive it. That immediately
suggests the little theatre tour-
nament. This device not only
affords evaluations of a sort but

By CLARENCE ARTHUR PERRY

Russell Sage Foundation
New York City

Mr. Perry, who is the author of
The Work of the Little Theatres,
presents here what he has term-
ed a I'unique philanthropic oppor-
tunity." We shall be glad to re—
ceive comments on Mr. Perry's
plan which offers a number of
features that should be stimulat-
ing to Little Theatre groups.

it is in itself an efficient
quickener.

Many a quiescent ama-
teur group has been spurred
into vigorous activity through the announcement
of a dramatic tournament. The prospect of a
new audience, the itch to measure abilities, the
possibility of prize money with its aid to future
activity, the effect of publicity upon memberships
and subscriptions, the contact with other groups
during the contest, the impact merely of a definite
new goal—considerations such as these put new
life into many hundreds of producing groups dur-

ing the years of tournament activity just preced-
ing the crash.

A Possible Plan

The effect of the plan now to be suggested
would be both to stimulate the holding of tourna-
ments and to introduce into the tournament pro-
gram those critical features which would add
greatly to its efficiency as an aid to technical and
artistic advance.

Main Features. The operation of this plan would
involve the following:

(I) The setting up of a national organization
which might be‘called the “American Guild. of
Little Theatres” (hereafter shortened to “Guild”).
This body would establish, as one of its activities,
an honorary order that would be open to little
theatre groups on the basis of excellence as
demonstrated in a tournament presentation. Mem-
bership. would take place through the award of a
diploma by the judges of a tournament.

(2) An offer by the Guild to furnish the services
of three persons of distinction in the theatrical
world to act as judges of sectional tournaments,
awarding not only the usual prizes but diplomas
of membership in the above-
mentioned honorary society.

(3) The addition to the or-
dinary tournament program of
conferences designed to afford
greater opportunities for com-
petent discussion of production
problems and the exchange of
dramatic experience.

521

.522 QL-"lCKENING THE LITTLE THEATRE MOVEMENT

The Conferences. This last feature would be
brought about through the offer by the Guild of
the services of its three judges as speakers and
discussion leaders at open sessions interpolated
between the tournament presentations. That fact
being clearly understood by the local management,
it is certain that full advantage would be taken of
the knowledge and caperience of the distinguished
visitors. In addition to the discussion of set topics
there would be question-box hours in which the
amateur players would secure answers to their
more technical questions.

The second discussion feature that is proposed
might be called a “post-mortem" session held to
evaluate all the tournament presentations. This
would be programmed to follow the final awards
and to take place while all the tournament teams
were still in town. In this occasion each of the
prmluctious in turn would be candidly and fully
analyzed by one of the judges. Both its virtues
and its shortcomings would be set forth in pre—
ciscly the temper and the manner employed by the
director of a college drama department after one
of its own student productions.

Any person who has been among a group of
players immediately after
their performance cannot
fail to have noticed in their

"The Giant Stairs "-—- the prize winnirig play
in a one act play tournament in New Haven.

eyes a pathetic hunger for comment. Perhaps it
is the desire for recognition, but it would be a
shallow analysis of this feeling to see in it only a
wish for praise. They want praise—yes—but only
for that in their work which is praiseworthy. They
have just had applause. Their friends give them
only applause—if they give them anything. \Vhat
the best of them crave is a word from someone
who knows, indicating what was good and what
was bad in their performance. They want both a
basis for hope and another target to shoot at.

An appraisal of all the productions of the tour-
nament in the presence of an assemblage which
has just witnessed or participated in them would
represent an opportunity for dramatic instruction
of iuestimable value. That it would most effec-
tively increase the pulling power of the tourna-
ment can hardly be doubted.

Starting the New Plan. The method for bring-
ing about these improvements in tournament pro-
cedure is simple. The Guild would announce the
plan for the new honorary order and offer the
services of its judges to those tournament organi-
zations which met its conditions. These require-
ments might be increased
as experience indicated
further improvements in

 

QUICKENING THE LITTLE THEATRE MOVEMENT 523

tournament technique, but at first they would in—
volve mainly adapting the local contest period to
the itinerary of the Guild judges and the inclusion
of discussion periods in the tournament program
during and after the contest. \Vhere local cir—
cumstances precluded these discussions it would
not be necessary to insist upon having them.

Qualifications of Judges. In view of the ex-
ceptional tasks laid out in this scheme for the
judges, their qualifications become highly im-
portant. The presiding judge would be a full-
time paid officer of the Guild and his associates
would be two individuals whom he had engaged
(under a per diem compensation arrangement)
from the region of a particular tournament. Gen—
erally, he would select new associates in each
region, but special circumstances might necessi-
tate the use of one or both of his associates in
more than one region.

This full-time officer of the Guild might be its
president or its excutive secretary—in case there
were some individual whom it was desirable to
honor as an unpaid president—but in either case
his qualifications should be of a high order. He
should be a real personage in the dramatic world:
he should be a first-rate play director, and he
should also have some of the distinctive qualities
of a practical organizer (that is, a business man)
and a teacher. He should believe in this plan and
experience an emphatic release of energy and
ability in promoting it.

The two associates he would select from the
various regions to act with him in judging pro-
ductions should not only be experienced directors
but should have the ability to state the basis of
their judgments candidly and with an authority
that would invoke the gratitude of the individuals
whose work was under discussion. The fields
from which he could pick his jury colleagues
would include the faculties of leading schools of
drama, professional directors in both little and
commercial theatres, and the active members of
boards of managers of such bodies as the Theatre
Guild of New York. All the judges should have
the ability not only to make sound dramatic judg-
ments but to analyze their impressions and state
clearly and objectively the basis of their ratings.
They should be able to agree sufficiently upon
standards and rating methods so that they could
state awards in arithmetical terms capable of sum—
mation and reduction to averages.

Before a contest is started, the presiding judge
would distribute all the plays entered in the tour-

ment among the judges, himself included, and in-
struct each one to be prepared to report publicly
upon the plays assigned to him in the session fol—
lowing the final awards. This post-mortem ses—
sion would be open to all the players, directors or
coaches, or authorities interested in the tourna-
ment.

Standard for Diploma Awards. So far as can
be foreseen now the only practicable opportunity
for judging the work of groups and awarding the
honorary diplomas would be in connection with
tournament presentations. The maintenance of
right standards in judging candidates for mem—
bership in the honorary or diploma order would
be the special concern of the presiding judge and
of the board of directors whose policy he would
strive to carry out. Obviously the best policy
would be to set the standard of performance at a
level which, though high, could be achieved by
the best of the individual groups that were not
under continuous instruction or engaged in regu-
lar occupation with the theatre. A plan for in-
terpreting and applying such a standard would
have to be worked out by the three judges, and
the person who would attempt to carry that stand-
ard from one region to another would be the pre-
siding judge. If there should be a national finals
tournament, that occasion would often permit
valuable comparisons of the correctness with
which awards were being made in the various
regional contests.

It can be admitted at once that no system of
judging exists which would result in awards that
were universally acceptable. Charges of unfair-
ness, favoritism and insignificance would now and
then be made. The same statement is true as re—
spects the advanced degrees of universities, court
decrees and the awards of distinguished academies
in science and letters. DeSpite, however, the in-
evitable shortcomings in human judgments, the
stimulus to achievement afforded by an honor-
conferring body justifies its existence.

In the ordinary play tournament there are
usually only two or three chances to win an award,
but in the contest carrying the tournament feature
every contestant has a chance to win something. -

The majority of the tournaments are now held
in the spring months. Enough have, however,
been held in the fall and winter months to demon-
strate that there is no inherent difficulty in spread-
ing out tournament activity over the whole the-
atrical season. Allotting two weeks to a region
and additional time for the Christmas holidays,

524 QUICKENING THE LITTLE THEATRE MOVEMENT

nine regions could be covered in five or six
months. There would also be time enough for a
meeting of regional winners in a national finals if
such an event were arranged.

The Tournament As a Regional Conference.
Another attractive aspect of this plan is that its
tournaments would actually constitute highly ef-
fective regional conferences. Regions as large as
the districts mapped out, for example, by the Na-
tional Theatre Conference might not always be
fully represented, but for the groups which could
attend in any one district the meetings would be
extraordinarily helpful. In the first place, the
representation from a group would include not
only the director, or its leading spirit, (usually the
only ones sent), but also its more prominent play-
ers. Again the traveling expenses of a team en-
tered in a tournament are more easily managed
than the expenses of delegates to a conference.
For the former, the group can give local money-
raising performances with greater enthusiasm, and
if they win any sort of award at the tournament
the publicity from it enables them to put on the
same play for a profitable “run” at home and
restore their depleted treasury. Thus the tourna-
ment occasion brings into the dramatic forum the
younger and more active element of a group as
well as its maturer and more experienced leaders.

Removing Academic Prejudice. Contests 0r-
ganized under the plan outlined would naturally
attract an unusual amount of newspaper publicity.
The high reputations of the men devoting them-
selves to judging little theatre tournaments would
come to the attention of college trustees and mem-
bers of boards of education and give them a new
realization of the importance of drama asa method
of education. Such university and high school
authorities as attended the tournament discussions
would inevitably be impressed with the value and
dignity of this work. In these ways the new
activity would help greatly in removing the aca-
demic prejudice which in certain quarters still
holds back the little theatre movement.

Worlt on Clearing House Problems. During
these travels and close contacts with little theatre
groups, the executive officer of the Guild would
pick up a great deal of first-hand information re-
garding their real wants and natures. With such
knowledge as a hasis he would be in an excellent
position to formulate practical measures for the
development of central clearing house services.

During his home period he could give attention to
such problems and all the various ways of pro-
moting the little theatre movement.

Manner of Support. In the beginning, and per-
haps for a long time, the salary of the executive
ofiicer and the per diem compensations of the as-
sociate judges as well as their traveling expenses,
would have to be borne by a grant or subsidy from
some public spirited individual or institution.
Whether or not a part of the expenses could be
borne by local groups would remain to be seen.
Certainly all the support which could be obtained

from them without detriment to the effectiveness
of the work should be obtained.

In thinking about the method of supporting this
plan there is a fundamental distinction which may
well be borne in mind. Society is roughly divided
into two classes—the immature and the adult. The
cost of the care and training of the first class is
usually a gift. The great bulk of the little theatre
groups of the country are in the earlier stage of
development. They cannot pay for their educa-
tion. The stimulation and the enrichment of the
tournament occasion provided for in this outline
is of a purely educational and developmental
character. It is an essentially paternalistic pro-
cedure and as such belongs properly in the class of
activities which customarily enjoy philanthropic
or public support.

Increasingly Little Theatre groups which are
genuinely community projects are springing up
throughout the country in both large and small
cities. York, Pennsylvania, whose Little Theatre
was created about three years ago under the aus-
pices of the Department of Recreation, recently ap-
pointed as Director of the theatre Carl Click, who
has had long and successful experience in this
field. The group is now holding its rehearsals and
giving its plays in school buildings but it looks
forward to the time when it will have its own
playhouse. Two plays have been presented thus
far this season—"Gold in the Hills" and “Out-
ward Ilound." Members of the group have also
written some short plays which have been broad-
cast over a local radio station.

The Little Theatre is supported by small con-
trihutions and by the sale of tickets to the per-
formances, ranging in price from $.50 to $t.5o.
Anyone in the community may be a member of
the Little Theatre and may take part in the plays.
provided he demonstrates his ability.

Park departments, by creating
an environment of beauty and
peace, are helping materially
in counteracting the mental
strain of the depression.

HE MOTTO of the American Institute
T of Park Executives is “To make

more abundant, facilities for a more
expressive life for all.” Park systems all
over the country have been providing
such facilities in ever increasing num—
bers, and it would take much space just
to name the many activities and services
of an educational or recreational nature
maintained by the average municipal park
department today for the benefit of the
public.

In these difficult times, when so many
of our people are under considerable men-
tal strain due to unemployment, it is in—
teresting to note that larger numbers'than
ever before seem to get more physical, mental and
spiritual refreshment from that part of our mu-
nicipal parks which provides an environment of
peace, quiet and beauty, than from any other fa-
cility such as athletic fields, golf courses or areas
provided for active forms of recreation.

Urban communities are an unnatural environ-
ment for the germs homo anyway. As the popu-
lation of towns and cities increases, the stress and
strain of modern living conditions make it imper-
ative that ample provision shall be made in park
systems not only for active recreational areas but
for adequate retreats where the public may get
close to nature and realize that, even in congested
communities, man may, in conjunction with
mother nature and the application of sufficient
skill and energy, encourage the green grass, orna-

 

By ERNEST K. THOMAS

Superintendent of Parks
Providence, R. l.

mental trees, shrubs and beautiful flowers to grow.
In such areas all classes of people, young and old,
may realize that they, even as the roses, may
stand firmly on the friendly earth, lift their faces
to the sun, and receive physical and mental re-
f reshment which helps them to meet the problems
of the day with renewed courage.

Park departments by their displays of floral
beauty have done much to encourage home gar-
dens and thus help to beautify towns and cities.
Excellent collections of trees, shrubs and Howers
of various kinds may be found in many park
systems. Rose gardens are maintained by a num-
ber of municipalities and there is no one feature
that attracts more attention or is enjoyed by so
many people as a good collection of roses, well
grown and placed in an appropriate environment.

525

526 MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS

According to the secretary of the American
Rose Society, there are between seventy-five and
eighty nnmicipal rose gardens in the United States
maintained by park departments and botanical
gardens. There should be many more, and no park
system is too small to have one. If finances are
not available, public-spirited citizens may often
be encouraged to bear the expense of establishing
one. Horticultural societies and garden clubs may
be depended upon to help: also such service clubs
as the Lions, Rotary, Kiwanis and others.

Locating a Rose Garden

The location of the rose garden needs careful
consideration. It should be placed where those
who will come to see it can be accommodated
comfortably. There should be plenty of parking
space nearby, and it should be in an appropriate
environment. An open space in a woodland trail,
or where the landscape features are more or less
naturalistic, may not be desirable. A location ad-
jacent to more formal planting, or where it would
not be in such a contrast to natural beauty, would
be more desirable.

Roses need plenty of sunshine, althOUgh this
does not mean that they must have full exposure
to sunshine all day. If they get sun for at least
half the day most varieties will bloom satisfactorily.

Locations near trees or hedges are not impos-
sible if the roots of the trees and shrubs that
may get into the rose beds are cut once a year by
digging down two or three feet on the side of the
rose bed nearest to them. If trees and shrubs
with many surface roots get into the beds, they
may rob the soil of plant food and moisture to the.
detriment of the roses.

A location protected from cold winds is de-
sirable, although not absolutely necessary. for
many hardy varieties: buildings, hedges and
fences may often serve as windbreaks.

Roses of Different Types

A municipal rose garden should have in it a
number of varieties of the different types of
roses. The following are the most popular today:

Tea Roses. The tea roses are low growing
bushy plants fifteen to thirty inches high; they
bloom abundantly in June and less freely through-
out the summer and early fall. They are not
hardy in the northern states; in the southern
states and in California, they do well. In other
sections where the winters are not too severe, the

tea roses may be grown if given sufficient winter
protection.

Hybrid Perpetual Roses. The hybrid perpetuals
are bushy in form, from two to six or eight feet
high, more vigorous in growth and hardier than
the tea roses. They may be grown practically
everywhere. except perhaps in the very coldest
sections of the United States, with sufficient win-
ter protection. They produce good size flowers of
many different eolors and most of them are fra-
grant. They flower abundantly in june and some
of them give a few flowers in late summer or
early fall. .»\s a class, they should be grown more
extensively. H ybridizers and growers 'are de-
veloping new hybrids and we expect that they will
soon become as popular as the following class, the
hybrid teas. are now.

Hybrid Tea Roses. This class is the result of
crossing the tea roses with the hybrid perpetuals.
They grow from two to four feet high. and may
be grown over the same wide territory as the
former class with some protection in the winter
season in the coldest sections. It is this class of
roses that is perhaps most popular due to the fact
that more new hybrids and varieties have been
put on the market than of the other classes.
There are probably over three thousand varieties
listed by rose growers; many of them will pass
out of existence because they do not meet the
highest standards demanded by the public today.

New varieties are being introduced every year
and there is mueh time and money spent in ad-
vertising them. While the popularity of this class
of roses is merited because there are scores of
very lovely varieties available to the public, other
classes are just as worthy and are much more de-
sirable for certain purposes than the hybrid teas.

The hybrid teas bloom most profusely in June
and many of the best 'arieties combine to bloom
more or less freely through the summer and early
fall months. Practically all shades of color are
represented in the flowers including one that is
almost black, recently introduced. and called the
“l‘dack Rose of Sangerhausen."

Polyanrha Roses. The mlyantha roses, some-
times called baby ramblers. bloom continuously
from june to late fall. They form low bushes.
many of them not over two feet in height. There
are varieties that produce clusters of small flow-
ers: others have blooms similar to the hybrid teas,
and still others have sprays of single flowers. Al-

 

MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS 527

most all colors except yellow may be found in this
class, including orange. '

Climbing Roses. All of the foregoing types of
roses may be secured in climbing form; that is,
the same types of flowers are produced on long
canes that may be trained over arches, porches or
on pillars. There are tender varieties that. do not
survive the winters in northern states and can be
grown successfully only in the southern states.

The hardy climbers may be grown over a wide
area and, with a little protection in winter, most
of them will survive in sections where the winters
are quite cold. Even when severe weather kills
back the canes, as happened last winter in many
parts of the country, they will often send up new
canes from the roots to replace the ones damaged.

T he climbers bloom for a few weeks in early
summer. Recently hybridizers have announced
the introduction of varieties that bloom sparingly
and more or less continuously after the first early
summer display. The hardy climbers are some-
times grown as hedges, or on banks to prevent soil
erosion.

Shrub Roses. As the name suggests, this class
grows more or less like woody shrubs. They are
used just as shrubs are used, as specimen plants,
in shrub borders or as hedges; some of the varie—
ties are excellent for planting on steep banks.
They are hardy and vigorous, and they grow from
four to ten feet high or more. They produce sin-
gle and more or less double flowers in white, pink,
red and yellow colors.

There are many other
types or classes of roses,
including species, varie—
Hes and hy-
brids, that are
being used by
hybridizers in
crossing with
the classes
briefly describ-
ed above. These
patient work-
ers are striving
to breed roses
that will be im-
mune to dis-
eases, perfectly
hardy, and have
a longer season
of bloom.

The Lady Alice Stanley in Roger Williams Park—

showing how the varieties are plainly labeled

 

There is quite an interest now in making collec-
tions of old roses; that is, varieties that were cul—
tivated many years ago and which have been for-
gotten in the avalanche of new varieties that have
been widely advertised in more recent years.
Some of the older varieties of all classes of roses
are unsurpassed by many of the more recent
introductions.

Selecting Varieties

There are a large number of varieties of roses
in each class now available. In making a selection
for planting in the municipal rose garden, the
park executives and local or nearby nurserymen
will know best which varieties are adapted to any
locality. The secretary of the American Rose
Society can be of great assistance not only in
selecting a representative group of varieties in
each class but in making suggestions for the lay-
out of the garden. There may be private estates
in the community where roses are grown exten—
sively ; if so, the owners or theiri'superintendents
will help in making the selection.

Soils and Fertilizers

\Vhile roses will grow and flower in almost any
kind of soil if it is well drained, except perhaps a
very stiff heavy clay and without much prepara-
tion, they will respond to thorough preparation of
the soil. Of more importance than the kind of
soil is the question of drainage. Roses, like most
garden plants, do not like
“wet feet.” If water does
not drain naturally, the
soil becomes water—log-
ged, especially
in the winter
time, and there
will be m u c h
loss through
winter killing
of the plants.
If the soil is
not well drain-
ed, put in tile
drains.

T h e b e d s
should be dug
out at least two
feet deep." If
t h e r e i s a n y
question about

528 MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS

the drainage, dig out six inches more and put in a
layer of clinkers, rough gravel or coarse ashes.
All the old books reconnnend the use of well
decayed cow manure for the rose beds. There is
nothing better if'it can be secured. A layer of
six or eight inches of well decomposed organic
matter in the bottom of the rose beds is desirable.
It holds moisture and plant food, and encourages
the deep rooting of the roses; this enables them
to withstand hot summer weather. If none of
these are easily obtained, then use the peat and
manure sold at seed stores; put a layer three or
four inches deep in the bottom of the bed after

removing the top soil.

The best kind of soil for rose growing accord-
ing to the older gardeners and the recommenda-
tions found in old garden books and magazines is
a “clay loam soil." This means a good loam with
a little more clay in it than sand. In spitc of the
advice contained in recent books and of some
modern writers who claim this is not necessary, it
will usually be found that, where there are some
particularly fine roses grown, the soil is of this
character.

Very satisfactory results may be secured, how-
ever, with a light sandy loam soil if it is enriched
with organic matter by placing a laycr at the bot-
tom of the bed, as suggested above. If the de-
hydrated peat and manure is used and the soil is
rather light and sandy, some of it may be mixed
with the top soil also. Fine ground bone meal and
lime should also be mixed with the top soil; use
about five pounds of bone meal and three pounds
of lime for each one hundred square feet of bed.
If the soil for the rose beds could be prepared a
week before planting, it would be desirable. After
digging out the t0p soil, the bone meal, lime and
the peat and manure could be mixed with it and
the whole allowed to stand for a few days before
placing it back in the beds.

The Purchase of Roses

There are nurserymen who specialize in grow-
ing roses and they take pride in selling good
stock true to name. Many of them are so sure of
the quality of their plants that they offer to re-
place any plant purchased from them that dies
during the first winter. Roses purchased from in-
discriminate sources at cheap prices cannot be ex-
pected to be anything but cheap. 1" or best results,
therefore, it is advisable to secure plants from
sources that are reliable.

Three or four plants of a variety should be pur-
chased rather than one plant of several varieties.
This makes a better showing and you get a better
idea of a variety if there are at least three or four
plants of each growing in a bed.

The hybrid tca roses may be planted about
eighteen to twenty inches apart; the hybrid per-
petuals, which grow a little larger, may be planted
twenty-four to thirty inches apart.

’Climbing roses will be plantcd where needed.
If grown on pillars, fences, posts or arbors, they
may be spaced six fect apart. Order two-year-
old, budded and field-grown stock for the most
satisfactory results.

When to Plant

The teas, hybrid teas. hybrid perpetuals and
polyantha varieties may be planted in beds by
themselvcs. A row of the polyanthas may be used
on the outside of the beds in which the taller
growing hybrid perpetuals are planted if desired.
A dozen bushes of each variety make a good
showing and give the public a good idea of what
each varicty looks like. The beds should not be
more than five or six feet wide so that the center
of each may be reached easily when spraying or
cultivating.

The shrub roscs and the species may be used
in the borders around the outside of the rose
beds, and the climbing varieties trained on arches
and pillars.

Planting may be done in the fall or very early
spring. In the South, early spring may mean
February, and the North early in April. In the
very coldest sections, spring planting may be ad-
visable. In the South, late autumn may be pre-
ferred. For a large intermediate section of the
United States, fall planting is probably advisable
for several reasons as follows:

Plants ordered for fall planting will be dug up
from the fields by the nurserymen and shipped to
the customers in a fresh condition. If roses are
not ordered until the early spring, the plants re-
ceived will probably have been stored in sheds for
the winter and they may be more or less dried out
when received. Outside of the warmer sections,
nurserymen have to dig the plants in the fall and
store them for the winter in order to be able to
make shipments to meet the rush of orders that
usually comes to them in early spring because the
ground may be frozen or too wet to enable the
grower to get plants direct from the fields for the
spring orders.

Termw‘ass mm.” 1:»  J

MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS 529

Roses and many other plants begin to lose
some of their vigor as soon as they are removed
from the soil, due to the evaporation of moisture
from their tissues. The shorter the time, there-
fore, between lifting the plants in the nursery and
planting them in home gardens, the better for the
plants. Parts of the roots are covered with very
fine root hairs that absorb moisture and plant
food from the soil. They are soon destroyed
when removed from the moist earth and exposed
to the air. When planted in the early fall, new
root hairs soon develop, and the roots become
established with the soil particles quickly and be-
fore hard freezing weather may be expected.

\Vhen planting is delayed until spring, there
may not be time for the roots to become well
established in the soil before the buds start to
grow and there is a demand on the root system to
supply moisture and plant food to support the
new growth. If this demand cannot be met,
growth may be retarded and the result may be a
poor showing of flowers the first year.

In early spring, there may be delay in planting
due to the fact that the soil is too wet or the frost
may not be out of the ground. If plants have to
stand around waiting for a suitable time to get
the roots into the soil, the delay is not helping
them. This should not happen even if the roses
are ordered for fall planting. As sOOn as the
plants are received, open the package and heel
them in; that is, dig a trench and place the roses
in it; cover the roots and most of the canes with
moist soil until ready to plant them in permanent
positions in the garden.

The soil is warmer in the early fall than in the
early spring; this fact is conducive to a more
rapid root growth and the plants get well estab-
lished in the soil before severe winter weather
comes. Then, just as soon as the growth starts in
the spring, the roots are ready to supply moisture
and plant food to the unfolding buds, and the
plants develop strong new growths which will
bear handsome flowers the first year.

How to Plant

If the planting cannot be done immediately as
soon as received, the roses should be “heeled in”
as explained above. Cut back any bruised roots
that may appear and shorten the largest canes to
about eighteen inches. Dig holes in the prepared
soil large enough to accommodate the roots when
spread out laterally, and firm the soil down over
the roots with the feet when planting.

The depth to place roses in the soil is indicated
by the soil line on the stems; that is, it can be seen
just what part of the stem or cane was covered
by soil because the color of the part below the
soil will be lighter than that above.

The point on the rootstock where the buds were
inserted, or the junction of the canes and the
rootstock, is shown usually by a slight swelling.
This point should be just beneath the soil when
the planting is done; that is, not more than two
inches below the surface soil.

When the plants are all in place, cut back the
canes to six inches above the soil. In the spring,
the canes should be shortened again, if there is no
winter injury, to not more than two buds. After
planting, water the bed thoroughly to settle the
soil around the roots of the plants.

Winter Protection

In sections where hard freezing weather oc-
curs, especially in the very cold sections, winter
covering of the rose beds is necessary. The
amount of the covering needed depends on the
types of roses planted and the severity of the
winter weather. It often happens that roses may
be injured more by bright sun, cold drying winds
and alternate freezing and thawing in the winter
season than by low temperatures.

Late in the fall, mound the soil up around the
base of the canes to a depth of six inches. After
the first hard freezing weather, tie the canes up
with twine and place a foot of leaves, hay or
straw around the plants and over the soil in the
beds. Use stakes and strong twine if necessary
to keep the covering in place.

Climbing roses may be taken down from the
arches or pillars, laid on the ground and covered
with soil and leaves in the same manner, if local
experience indicates that this is necessary to keep
them through the winter months without injury.

Spring Pruning and Feeding

In early spring, remove the winter covering.
Sprinkle a little complete garden fertilizer over
the soil and, when dry enough, level off the beds,
raking the fertilizer in. Cut back the canes to not
more than two or three eyes. Three to five canes
are enough to leave on each plant. This hard
pruning of the bush roses produces strong growths
bearing large handsome flowers of good quality
and should be repeated each spring except that

( Continued on page 552)

The Public Library in

.A statement presented by the Board

on the Library and Adult Education
ot the American Library Association

111-: PUBLIC LIBRARY is now much more than
T the book depository which perhaps still charac-

terizes it in the minds of a portion of the
public not accustomed to Using it. Many people
in this category would perhaps gladly use it if
they realized what a variety of specific helps it
could bring them in the costless pursuit of their
amusements, hobbies. avocations, and studies.
Library activities have so eXpanded in the last
quarter century that they now involve much more
than books. Emphasis on service to the recrea-
tional, cultural and educational interests of the
peeple is now causing libraries to deal with many
things besides books. For example:

Starting places for leisure-time pursuits. They
have become general information centers on
almost any topic which may happen to interest an
individual at any time. Trained personnel and a
broad range of printed material are at the service
of any one who wants to select a hobby or avoca-
tion, who wants to know the best book or pam-
phlet to buy on his already chosen hobby and
where to buy it. who wants to borrow either a
primer or an advanced discussion on this hobby.
The library is the ideal starting place for the pur-
suit of almost any hobby or avocation.

The community storehouse of avocational infor-
mation. It can also be the
guide and the coach as he

the Program

ot

Leisure Time

\

of-print material that he could not obtain now at
any price.

Something in print on practically every hobby.
At first thought it may seem that printed matter
and libraries are remote from such leisure-time
pursuits as archery, hiking, athletic sports, pets,
linoleum block printing, paper crafts, and collect-
ing, but there are a number of f ull-sized books on
each of these topics, in most cases for both the
amateur and advanced practitioner. It little oc-
curs to people of action that there is anything in
book form that would be interesting or informa-
tive to them in the field of sport, or handicraft,
or amusements. They will be surprised in looking
over the comprehensive “Finding list of hobbies"
in Earnest Elmo Calkins’ Care and Feeding of
Hobby Horses to see for how many of these the
author gives names of two to a dozen books which
will tell things about a hobby that the hobbyist
had not known or thought of .

Practically every game, sport, avocation, amuse-
ment, handicraft, hobby, or field of study given in
Mr. Calkins' “Finding list of hobbies" is some-
how represented in print; if not in one of the full-
sized books which he lists, then in some other
book, pamphlet or magazine article. There are
many books that gather under one cover informa-

tion on whole groups of
hobbies or amusements-—

progresses in the pursuit.
Librarians began saving in-
teresting printed matter on
each man’s hobby before he
himself came upon his hobby.
They can produce in a few
minutes a few choice pieces
of informational material that
would have taken him per-
haps months or years to learn
of and acquire, including out-

530

Inquiries and suggestions received by
the American Library Association from
recreation, education and library work-
ers indicate that a brief statement oint-
ing out the various ways in which the
library—especially the public library—
can contribute to leisure-time programs
would be welcomed. Most of the pos-
sible library contributions mentioned in
this article are familiar and obvious, but
a reminder list may prove suggestive to
both librarians and planners of com-
munity leisure-time programs.

books of entertainments, of
children’s games, of floor
games, games for parties,
special occasions, special
age groups, miscellaneous
card games, books on the
several winter sports, on
miscellaneous and less fa-
miliar athletic Sports, cOm-
prehensive books on things
to collect — encyclopedias

THE RUBLIC LIBRARY IN THE PROGRAM OF LEISURE TIME 531

or a kind on sports, games, recreations and
other activities.

Experts talk to us at the library. There are few
fields of human knowledge or experience where
some proficient person has failed to divulge the
results of his years of practice and his advice to
beginners through the medium of a book or pam-
phlet. Most of us covet the privilege of talking
over our hobbies and avocations with an expert,
but we little realize that that expert’s advice in
orderly and compact form is available to us in
some library.

Information on local leisure - time activities.
Libraries are also becoming information centers
for news of all kinds of recreational, educational
and cultural opportunities available in and beyond
the community. Their bulletin boards carry pos-
ters, announcements, programs and newspaper
clippings about lectures, concerts, hiking clubs,
group meetings, evening schools, home study
courses, formal educational opportunities, civic
programs and activities, educational radio broad-
casts, outstanding magazine articles of the month,
art and museum exhibits, amateur dramatic and
choral societies and travel opportunities. In addi-
tion, many libraries keep ready reference files of
detailed information about such activities, so that
the individual inquirer after a specific kind of op
portunity can learn quickly just what is available
to him.

A place to spend leisure hours. Libraries provide
quiet rooms where anyone with an hour or a day
of leisure may “drop in,” browse among shelves
of books, magazines, or newspapers, and sit at a
table to read, write, study, look at pictures, or
simply invite his soul. The books on the open
browsing shelves of such rooms are a selected few
from the great mass of a library’s book stock
which are considered most apt to be popular, in-
teresting, timely, and needed. These privileges
are free to all, whether registered borrowers and
local citizens or not, and involve no registering,
routine, or red tape.

A town hall. Library buildings are being equip-
ped with auditoriunis and lecture halls which are
available—usually without charge—to non-profit
making study groups, discussion clubs, forums,
musicales, exhibits of all kinds, radio listening
groups, lectures, educational movies.

Pure recreational reading. The library has much
to offer in the way of escapes for those whose
minds are troubled because they have either too

much or too little leisure. The great range of
available fiction can take one into almost any
imaginary world that the moment makes con-
genial.

Many travel books are now written for the
same general purpose: to carry the reader with
the Martin Johnsons to Africa, the Harry Francks
to the Andes, the Richard Halliburtons to all
kinds of places. There is also, in these times, such
a thing as exploring with scientists via books.

Biography is of a new kind today and allows
the reader temporarily to live the life not only of
soldiers, statesmen, men of letters and of promi-
nence, but of plain people, vagabonds, aviators,
courageous women, researchers and every-day
folks who did an every-day job well. Biography
affords something more than escape—it frequently
affords inspiration as well, and gives better hints
on how to live than do the success books.

The library offers more than books in these and
similar fields. It now provides skilled personal
guidance in finding just the book needed by each
different individual.

The leisure time of children. For years children
have made the library one of their main recrea-
tion centers. They literally swarm in the chil-
dren’s rooms of libraries in after-school hours
and at times almost strip the shelves of books. It
is quite certain that the attraction here is recre-
ation rather than study.

Another library offering to children is long
famed—the story hour, where skilled assistants
tell or read aloud stories to large groups of the
younger ones on Saturday mornings.

The leisure time of adolescents. Libraries have
for some years also been addressing themselves to
the leisure-time problem of the ’teen age. Some
larger libraries have special rooms,-especial book
collections and specially qualified staff for this age
range, just as most libraries have for young chil-
dren. Most fair-sized libraries have at least a
special nook or set of shelves for young people.
Librarians have been studying the problem of
how to give special attention to these adolescents
without seeming to emphasize the youngness
about which some of them are sensitive. There
are a variety of experiments in how to lead the
youngster into the intelligent use of adult books
by imperceptible steps.

Learning things as a leisure pursuit. Mr. Calkins,
under the heading of “Learning things” (his
( Continued on page 553)

An Old-Fashioned Valentine Party

HE INVITATION to this Valentine party should

be in keeping with the party. To make a

very old—fashioned invitation, like those in
vogue many years ago, take an ordinary envelope,
tear it open carefully and place it on a large sheet
of cream colored kindergarten paper. Draw
around the envelope with a pencil. Cut this out,
write the invitation on it with red ink, fold into
an envelope with the writing on the inside, and
seal with red sealing wax. Here is a little rhyme
which can be used:

\Ve’re going back,

Say, three decades or four,
Come dressed in costumes
Your grandparents wore.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Date . . . . . . . .

A more elaborate invitation may be made in the
following manner: Take an ordinary orchid cor-
respondence card and on it write the invitation in
flowing, shaded script in lavender ink, leaving
enough space in the upper right hand corner to
place an old-fashioned bouquet. Make the bou-
quet by pasting a gathered piece of old lace
around a circle, about an inch in diameter. Then,
inside the circle, apply paste and sprinkle with
vari-colored wool which has been cut into very
tine pieces. This will give the floral effect for the
bouquet. For the stems either lines of green ink
or pieces of heavy green floss can be used. Be
certain to use lavender sealing wax on the
envelope.

Decorations

The color scheme should be carried out in
lavender and ivory to be in keeping with the
Lavender and Old Lace theme. A little thought-
ful planning will help to give the proper atmos-
phere and setting and.will do much toward the
success of the party.

Strings of different colored hearts may be
suspended diagonally from corner to corner.
Crepe paper in lavender and ivory may be cut

532

By MARION SHELMERDINE

Supervisor of Girls' and Women's Activities
Department of Public Playgrounds and Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania

into strips and draped around the lights and
lamps, fastening the paper at the top allowing
the streamers to hang free. To add a final touch,
use plenty of silhouettes and lighted candles.

Matching Partners

The Key to Your Heart. A clever way to find
partners is arranged in this manner. The hostess
prepares as many hearts as there are couples, cut-
ting the hearts out of cardboard or heavy paper.
From the center of each heart a key is cut ; all keys
are of different shapes and sizes. The keys are
given to the boys and the hearts to the girls. The
boys are told that they are to find the girl who
holds the heart which, with their key, they can
unlock.

Notwithstanding the fact that St. Valentine's Day
is a celebrated holiday, its origin is quite vague.
There is a theory that the martyred priest of Rome,
St. Valentine, had nothing to do with the custom,
but that it originated long before the introduction
of Christianity. Many years ago wolves were
especially dangerous, and a destroyer of them was
held in honor. And so the old Romans held a cele-
bration called the "Lupercalia," in honor of
Lupercus, the wolf destroyer. At this festival it was
customa for the young eople to draw lots for
partnersrfor all the year fol owing. This custom con-
tinued until the third century.

Valentine was a Roman priest who lived during
the time of the persecution of the early Christians
and at the time of Emperor Claudius, commonly
called Claudius the Cruel. During this period wars
arose outside of Rome, and Claudius called all his

citizen-s forth to battle. The married men did not
want to leave their families, nor those who were en-

gaged. their sweethearts. On hearing this the Ern-
peror became very angry and decreed there should

AN OLD-FASHIONED VALENTINE PARTY

Lover's Salad. This method of matching
partners was popular when our grandmoth—
ers attended this sort of gala affairs. Tissue
paper in various shades of green is cut and
crinkled to represent lettuce leaves. Slips
with famous lovers of history are pasted on
the “leaves”—the girl lovers’ names on the
boys’ “leaves” and the boys’ names on the
girls’. (One platter is prepared for the boys
and another for the girls.) The “lettuce” is
then passed and each guest is allowed to
take one. “leaf” from their respective platter.,
They all then try to find their lovers. Here are

some suggestions :

Dante and Beatrice
Jack and Jill
Paul and Virginia

' Punch and Judy
Ivanhoe and Rowena

John Alden and Priscilla
Romeo and Juliet
Hiawatha and Minnehaha

Napoleon and Josephine
The Prince, and Cinderella

Fortunes

Grandmother, dressed as she might have been
forty or fifty years ago, is just the right person
to distribute the heart fortunes. In case some of
us are not so fortunate as to have a grandmother,
an impersonation of grandmother will answer.

These fortunes are written on hearts; red ones
with white writing for the men and white ones

with red ink for the ladies.

be no more marriages. The good priest Valentine
was very sad about this and quite secretly united
couple after couple in marriage. At last the news
reached Claudius who ordered Valentine to be cast
into a dungeon where he died. Later the church
canonized him and a new feast was introduced in
place of the pagan Lupercalia to which the name St.
Valentine was given. because St. Valentine's day on
the church calendar occurred about the same time
in February.

An Archbishop connects the celebration with St.
Valentine and says' "he was a man of most admir-
able parts, and was so famous for his love and charity
that the custom of choosing valentines upon his
festival took its form from thence.'l

The most probable origin is the ancient feast in
honor of Pan and Juno which was held by the
Romans during the month of February. The Chris-
tian leaders persuaded their converts to substitute
St. Valentine for the pagan Pan and Juno, and so
they set the day of celebration on February the

fourteenth, the date of the saint's death.

533

"0ft have i heard both youths and maidens say
Birds choose their mates and couples, too, this day:
But by their flight i never can divine,

When i shall couple with my valentine."

For the Ladies

Don’t wait for him;
Go while ’tis day
And search him out;

Go right away]

His smiling eyes
Your charm will be,

He’s looking for you
Hard as can be.

If he is homely,
Don’t blame me.

I’ve marked his heart
Wlth Cupid’s key.

Now, my young girl,
Don’t pass him by,
He’s a fine young man

And rather high.

Loyal, upright
Handsome, true :

The boy that’s suited
Just for you.

His heart is waiting,
Miss, for thee,

As full of love,
As full can be.

I’m sure that Ithis is

One thing I know;
A brilliant boy
Is your beau.

Run quick,

For pretty things he’ll

* tell
You’ll want him for
He's fine and well.

— H citric}:

For the Gentlemen

A girl with pretty
wavy hair.

Is buzzing for you
Everywhere.

She’s not as young,
Perhaps, as you,

Nor pretty, either,
But you dare not sue.

She’s just as crazy
As can be,

Because her heart’s
Beating for thee.

Now, whatever else
You do,

Don’t miss the girl
With eyes of blue

She’s the pick and choice
Of the upper ten.

The finest miss,
Of all women.

She's mighty prettyI
You will see;

She has a heart
Of gold for thee.

Your girl most sure
Is a gem,

Don’t miss this one
Ah ha, ah heml

She’s charming and
handsome,
Bright and true
Her heart is calling '
Just for you.

Games

Valentine Barter. Each person is supplied with
ten beans and five separate letters from the word
Valentine. The object of the game is to use the
letter given to form a word or words, and the
beans either to barter or buy additional desired
letters from your neighbors with which to form
words. At the end of a designated time the per-
son or persons with the longest word, the person
with the most words and the person with the
highest number of beans are awarded prizes.

Famous Kates. Here is a game our grandmoth—
ers loved to play. Possibly they will remember it
by the name of “Forty Famous Kates.”

534 AN OLD-FASHIONED VALENTINE PARTY

Divide the gl’OUp into equal teams with about
five to each team. Every person in each team is
numbered, and the captain of each team is the
scorer. The leader has cards on which is written
the question of the famous “Kates.” She calls
out a number. and that number from each group
or team comes forward to the leader and tries to
identify the “Kate.” The first person who does
so scores one point for his team, and all with that
number retire to their seats to be ready to be
called again. Another Kate is produced, and an-
other number is called. In the event that within
a reasonable time not any of that particular num-
ber can guess what it is, another number is called.
The “Kates” which can be used are:

1. \Vhat Kate leaves her place? (Vacate)
2. \\'hat Kate resigns? (Abdicate)
3. \Vhat Kate points out the

way? (indicate)
4. \Vhat Kate entangles you

by her statements? (Inlplicate)
5. What Kate is frail? (Delicate)
6. \Vhat Kate has a twin? (Duplicate)
7. \V hat Kate tells the news? (Communicate)
8. What Kate does not tell the
truth ? (Preva ricate)

9. What Kate is a housewife? (Domesticate)
10. \Vhat Kate gives instruction? (Educate)
11. \Vhat Kate returns
courtesies ? (Reciprocate)
12. \Vhat Kate drinks too much? (Intoxicate)
Mystery Heart Hunt. Divide the group into
couples. All the guests are instructed to hunt for
paper hearts which have been hidden by the
hostess in very obscure places. Some of the
hearts are red, some are lavender and some are
ivory. After a given length of time the group is
called together and the couples count their ap-
parent gains. They are then told that the red
hearts count five points, the ivory hearts two
points and the lavender hearts deduct three points.
Again they total their findings. An award may be
offered for the couple with the highest score.

Grandmother's Valentina Wardrobe. The fol-
lowing are words which were familiar to the
female sex from twenty-five to thirty years ago.
Each person is given a pencil and a slip of paper
On which is printed the following:

VVEELT (Velvet)
ANI" ( Fan)
LAWl IS (Shawl)
ESTANAI’LT (Pantalets)
NTARl (Train

TU BELSS (Bustles)
IDBOEC (Bodice)
N TON BIZ (Bonnet)
ESLU M P (Plumes

The person to have the most correct in a given
length of time is the winner.

Memory Scrapbooks. Divide the guests into
small groups. Provide each group with a table,
chairs, scissors, a stack of old magazines, and
paste. Give each guest a small booklet made by
folding in half three 8%” x 11" sheets of paper
and clipping them together. The front page is to
be labeled “Glimpses Into the Past,” or any other
title the player wishes to use. The second page is
to be labeled “Scenes from My Babyhood,” the
third, “Childhood Frolic,” next “My First Sweet-
heart," and fifth "My Husband or “life,” and
last, “My Future Hopes.” The guests are to cut
out pictures from the magazines and paste them
into the scrapbook on the proper page, under the
proper title. About ten or fifteen minutes are
allowed to finish, and the person with the best

scrapbook, wins.

St. Valentine's Mating Secret. The group is
paired off, and each couple is given a secret val-
entine which they are told to open and read
quietly. Inside the valentine it read thus: “If a
girl wishing to marry a Scotchman wore plaid
and one desirous of catching a musician wore or-
gandie, what then should the girls wear to land

the following :”

A n artist (Canvas)
A barber (Mohair)
A ronfertioner (Taffeta)
Financier (Cashmere)
Fisherman (Net)
Banker (Checks)
Editor (Prints)
Gardener (Lawn)
Milkman (Jersey)
Undertaker (Crepe)
Prisoner (Stripes)
Hunter (Duck)

Charades. This is an old, old game. Divide the
group into two or more parts. Let them put on
charades representing the names of various peo-
ple, places, words, etc. A suggestive list should

be given each group.

Shakespeare (Men shaking an impro-
vised spear)
Caesar (Seize her)

(A girl under a table with
someone standing on the

table)

b‘fismldersfanding

Cupboard (A cup and a board)

Bookcase (A book and a spectacle
case)

Eyelash (Strike someone with a
lash)

 

AN OLD-FASHIONED VALENTINE PARTY 535

l/Vomtm (A man walks out, the
others yell “Whoa”)

Pampers (Two pets or two people
who pet each other)

Ingrafiafe (In gray she ate)

Climax (Climb ax)

Antarctic (Ant, ark, tick)

Sausage ‘ (Saw sage)

Jumbled Proverbs. This is another form of
charades. Select and write out several proverbs
on separate pieces of paper. Cut each proverb
into two or three parts and mix up the parts. The
pieces are then given out—one piece to each
player——and all are instructed not to utter a word,
but must find the other part of their proverb by
acting out their portion of it. In a large group
two or three of the same proverbs may be used.
When all have found their entire proverb, each
“proverb” gets together and acts out their own
proverb while the others try to guess what it is.

Look before you leap.

It never rains, but what it pours.

Birds of a feather flock together.

A new broom sweeps clean.

A barking dog never bites.

There’s many a slip ’twixt the cup and the lip.

Clap ln, Clap Out. No old-fashioned party
would be complete without this old faithful. All
the men retire into another room and the girls
place chairs before themselves. The men are
brought in, one at a time. He takes a seat. If
everybody claps, he is in the wrong seat. That
means that the girl who asked for him was not
the girl in whose chair he seated himself. If de-
sired, two trials may be given each one. If he
gets the right chair he remains in the room and
is privileged to sit in the chair. After the men
have all come in, the girls may go into the ad-
joining room and be brought in one at a time in
the same manner.

Goodnight Ladies. Everyone knows the words.

Goodnight ladies,
Goodnight ladies,
Goodnight ladies,
We’re going to leave you now.-

Chorus
Merrily, we roll along,
Roll along, roll along,
Merrily, we roll along,
O'er the deep blue sea.

All form a double circle, couples facing each
other with the men on the inside and the girls on
the outside of the circle. On the first “Goodnight
ladies,” all shake hands with partners and all men
move one step to the right. This brings them to

new partners. On the second, “Goodnight ladies,”
repeat the first figure. The third, the same as the
second. On “We’re going to leave you now,” each
man stays with his third partner and shake hands
three more times (on “going to leave you now”).
During the chorus all partners hook arms and skip
merrily around, anticlockwise. The entire song is
repeated.
Favors

Old-fashioned bouquets and boutonnaires are
quite appropriate. Cut a circle of cardboard an
inch and a quarter in diameter with. a hole in the
center about a quarter of an inch in diameter.
Sew wool over and over the cardboard as though
overcasting it until the cardboard is quite well
covered. Take the needle and thread and pass the
needle between the wool and the cardboard, being
careful not to splice any of the wool. Tie the
thread into a loop. Now cut the wool along the
outer edge of the frame, freeing it from the
cardboard, and tie the thread which held together
the center into a tight knot. Trim to make a per-
fect circle. Several of these are used for one bou-
quet, using the green crepe paper wrapped wire
for stems, little paper doilies for the lace frill
around the outside of the bouquet and tinfoil to
cover the stems and everything underneath the
doily. Of course you will want to make the flowers
different colors in order to make them more at-
tractive. Handkerchief rosebud boutonnaires are
more useful than the suggestions above, and the
cost is a trifle more, but they too are attractive.

Fold the handkerchief in half, diagonally. Roll
folded corners, loosely, toward center, holding to
prevent unraveling. Separate loose corners, bring-
ing each corner up along the outside of the bud.
Tie with ribbon bow and insert in paper doily.

Baby Picture Place Cards. If it is possible to ac-
quire a baby picture of each guest, this novel idea
can be worked out. Purchase some photographic
art corners. Place the pictUres on lavender cor-
respondence cards, and make stationary by using
art corners. Then tie the entire card with iv0ry
ribbon and place at the table. The guests are then
told to find their seat at the table by finding their
picture.

Refreshments
An Old-Fashioned Menu:

Cold baked ham
Potato Salad

Pepper Slaw
Sherbert
Coffee

(Continued on page 554)

Hot biscuits

Olives

New Trends
in

Park Planning

F THE AVERAGE person’s
daily activities, it is evi—
dent that leisure time

will occupy a constantly in-
creasing proportion, and espe-
cially for the great masses in
urban sections, opportunity for
recreation must keep pace.
Parks, in the larger meaning,
should lead the way, and that
this fact is well recognized by
the present administration is
gratifying to all of us inter-
ested in park developments. This era will be
known in the history of our nation as a great Park
and Conservation period. As an immediate means
of relieving unemployment and as a future field
for recreation it perhaps surpasses anything before
attempted in this country. To date nearly all of
the great conservation projects, such as—preven-
tion of soil erosion, flood control, forestation, and
power production, have due regard for recreation
possibilities.

The principles of comprehensive planning of
park systems and their connecting thoroughfares
are so well recognized that no brief for them is
necessary in this discussion, but the present-day
need for them is more evident than ever before.
Fortunate is the political unit that has a well-
planned program for park development in this
period of adjustment.

What are some of the basic trends that should
influence in new planning of parks and their con-

necting links.

DechOpments in Urban Districts

Let us consider urban developments and closely
built-up sections first. The necessity of sufficient

536

 

A city planner tells
hOWpresent-day needs
are influencing the
planning of parks and
their connecting links

By
JOHN NOYES

play areas is of first impor-
tance. Few communities have
enough of them, and their
spacing is far from ideal in
most cases. The increased lei-
sure time of adults added to
the ever present need for play
activities for children will
make more necessary than ever
play areas in the congested sec-
tions. The question of financ-
ing is of course difficult and
one for which a reasonable
solution must be found. With the present-day
tendency towards a static or even a decreased
population in many of our cities, the slum clear-
ance projects and possibly the complete eradica-
tion of entire blocks of obsolete residence dis-
tricts offer the wide-awake urban communities
opportunity to create new play areas. Indeed, the
very existence of many cities as soluble political
entities will depend to a great extent on the
thoroughness with which they embrace such pro-
grams. ThOUgh they may not be fully aware of
it, most cities are in active competition with out-
lying suburbs to hold their residents. The auto-
mobile and rapid transportation facilities have
made available outer districts where there is less
noise, more fresh air and sunshine and better play
facilities. Unless the cities make their residence
zones more attractive by means of additional
parks and playgrounds, this trend will continue
to a greater degree than ever before. For ex-
ample, subsistence farming developments on the
outskirts of cities, a decided trend of the times, un-
doubtedly will take large numbers from the cities.

Unquestionably a present-day indication in
playground design is a tendency towards games

NEW TRENDS IN PARK PLANNING 537

I

that will require less area per person. As an il-
lustration, in larger playfields, probably more soft
ball on small diamonds is being played today than
baseball with its full sized big league diamond.
Other sports with similar reduction in area per
person will inevitably be required to better utilize
minimum size playgrounds.

Increased leisure time for adults in our cities,
however, means more necessary areas, too, for
passive recreation, whether in connection with
playgrounds or separated therefrom. Pedestrian
sanctuaries, landscape and country type parks
where older people may rest and reflect on the
beauties of nature will be more desirable than
ever. Modern playground design should recognize
the older generation in creating and reserving
more play activities of a milder nature for ‘them,
such as roque, quoits and similar sports. Too few
of our park and playground systems recognize the
need of mild physical activity for the older per—
son. That improvement in aesthetic arrangcment
in all of these types is also possible, is quite
evident.

The larger country or landscape park of twenty—
five or more years ago is almost disappearing in
most of OUr cities. Much as we hate to face this
fact we must recognize it. Encroachments of
play activities, sites for various public buildings,
zoological collections and displays and various
other interests, many of them quite unrelated to
park purposes, are fast changing the original pur-
pose of this type of park. Many of the park
drives, originally for leisurely pleasure trafhc only,
have become main thoroughfares or parts of the
main arteries in the cities. One of the big prob-
lems of the future in park planning will surely be
the modernization of these parks, through grade
separation of many of these main arteries through
parks, and the consequent re-grading and land-
scaping of the areas involved. Park commissions
should oppose vigorously further encroachments
of park areas by various unrelated public or
semi-public institutions and should make a strenu-
ous effort to remove many now existent.

Zoological collections, among the finest of our
scientific-educational projects, in
many cases have been located in
areas unfit for the purpose and
where expansion is almost im-
possible. In most cases they
would infinitely be better situated
if located in grounds set aside
exclusively for their use or, if

This address was delivered by
Mr. Noyesl Landscape Archi-
tect and City Planner, St. Louis.
Missouri, at the convention of
the American Institute of Park
Executives held at Louisville,

September l7-2l.

located in the large country park, in a properly
designed area, with plenty of room for expansion.

Golf courses probably retain the natural to-
pography and vegetation of the park more than
any other sport and fit into the landscape better;
but in the interest of safety to other park pa-
trons, golf courses should be isolated from main
park drives, preferably located in areas exclu-
sively for them.

Modernization of most parks is unquestionably
needed if they are to function as up-to-date recre-
ation centers based on present—day needs. In
many cases this trend will lead towards the aban-
donment of roads through them, in the case of
many smaller parks, and the elimination of parts
of the road system in larger parks. Creation of
areas for automobile courts or so-called parking
areas along attractive lines with planted separa-
tion strips, additional lookout points and similar
traffic features, are increasingly desirable. Many
roads in older parks, designed in horse and car-
riage days, need reconstruction, with easier and
less dangerous curves.

In the opinion of many, cities not already pos-
sessing them should have at least one area in parks
devoted to an arboretum and even perhaps a
modest botanical garden. This area where various
types of plants, hardy to the locality may be
found with all plants labeled, would be of great
educational value, and also of great potential at-
tractiveness.

The architecture in many parks is fast becom-
ing obsolete and in need of modernization. Good
taste in design of structures demands our interest
more than ever before, and the type of architec-
ture and materials most suitable to the locality
obviously should be used, with preference to-
wards more or less uniformity of style. Many ex-
isting structures in parks are almost as unsuitable
in style, materials and purpose as a California
bungalow in northern New Hampshire.

Regional or County or Metropolitan Parks

The movement towards regional parks, whether
known as County, Metropolitan or by any other
name, in the environs of our
larger cities, will increase in num-
ber and use. The splendid exam-
ples of the \Vestchester County
system and the Metropolitan sys-
tem of Boston and others have
set an enviable record of accom—
plishment that all metropolitan

538 ' NEH" TRENDS IN PARK PLANNING

Many feel that at least
one area in a park should
be devoted to such de-
velopments as the rose

gardens and lily ponds in

Rock Springs Parlr.I Ft.
Worth, Texas

communities are attempt-
ing to emulate to a
greater or less degree.
The opportunity to con-
nect the main park areas
and reservations of the
outer system by means of
parkways is, of course,
greater in these less con-
gested districts than in the city.

St. Louis County is now in the midst of a five
million dollar bond issue campaign for the con-
struction of sewers, and as a part of its program
eventually expects to develop many of the natural
drainage channels, its creeks and small rivers, into
park ways, appropriately named “Flo-ways.” Other
environs of large cities will doubtless proceed
along similar lines. The possibilities of many of
the super-highways now entering cities as land-
scaped parkways leading to large outer parks and
reservations are almost unlimited.

The large outer parks and reservations of the
regional system will supplant to a large extent the
fast disaplmaring country park of the city, and
their accessibility by bus and rail transportation
as well as by automobile is a most important con-
sideration. Camping grounds, nature trails. game
preserves, boating. fishing and similar activities
are generally greater in demand in the larger and
more distant parks than the more aCtive types of
recreation. Preservation of natural scenery and
native plant life. and a landscape treatment de-
veloped to fit and accentuate the natural charac-
teristics of the site using native plant materials
exclusively. so far as possible. should dominate.

Distinction in these parks, and. in fact, in all
park det elop1nents whcther city, state or national,
should be one of the great objectives of the de-
signer. lf Jones l'ark in the south part of the city
can have characteristics that distinguish it from
Smith Park in the north part. both in good taste
and well designed, certainly the citizenry of the
entire city will try to visit both at various times

 

Comte-3y Ft. “'0th Park Department

during the year: the more pride they will have in
the two and the greater will be their support of the
parks. Many times this distinction will develop
from the natural characteristics of the site. Often
it must deve10p from the ingenuity of the designer.

State and National Parks

Acquisition of state parks for the preservation
of points of great scenic interest and natural won-
ders have received great impetus in the past few
years. Many states have adopted the policy of
setting a maximum price limit on such properties
which means that such sites will in most cases be
far distant front and relatively inaccessible to the
large centers of population, the heaviest taxpay-
ers. hence the principal financial investors in the
park. Five dollar an acre land one hundred and
fifty miles from the center of population may be
as expensive as $100.00 an acre land within
twenty or twenty-live miles of the center in cost
of the land per visitor. A 10,000 acre tract at the
greater distance might have 50,000 visitors a year;
land cost. exclusive of maintenance and develop-
ment costs, would represent $1.00 per visitor. A
tract of equal size close to the large center costing
$100.00 per acre might have 1,000,000 visitors a
year which would also represent $1.00 per visitor.
.\ly ligures may not even approximately approach
the correct ones. but certainly this economic prob-
lem deserves important consideration. \Vhen the
costs of transportation and loss of time in going
to the far distant tract are considered. the points
in favor of the easily accessible state park are even
more pronounced.

NEW TRENDS IN PARK PLANNING 539

State water conservation programs for streams
and flood control through creation of lakes are
almost unlimited in their possibilities for recrea-
tion, providing as they will opportunities for
boating and fishing activities, tourist and week-
end camps, to say nothing of the landscape and
scenic features. '

National parks selected from superlative areas
for their scenic interest and natural wonders, pre-
served in their native glory, will ever be the pride
of all Americans. Accessibility is a minor con-
sideration in their selection. The National Park
Service is to be congratulated on the selection,
deve10pment and management of these sites. Na-
tional and state forests and regional forests near
large cities, for their economic importance, as well
as their recreational possibilities, should also be
greatly encouraged, fostered and enlarged upon.

Highway Beautification

Another of the most significant trends of the
times which we may broadly consider a part of
the park program is the possibility for beautifica-
tion,-landscape development and improvement of
our state and rural highways. State highway en-
gineers have not reached the apex in design by
any means, as regards fitting the road to topogra-
phy or in grace of line and curve, but there has
been a notable improvement in the past four or
five years. The past year has seen a remarkable
impetus to the roadside improvement program
and the possibilities of many of the state high-
ways and super-highways as scenic parkways is
unbounded. Between the St. Louis city limits and
the town of Gray Summit, Missouri, a distance of
some thirty-Eve miles, we have a new highway of-
hcially known as Highway 66 which to date is
undoubtedly the best example of state highway
planning in the eastern part of the state. It hap—
pens that this highway connects the Missouri Bo—
tanical Garden in the city with its new Arboretum
at Gray Summit. A little over a year ago an as—
sociation was formed to work for the preservation
of natural scenery along this highway, the control
of billboards, the improvement of roadside stands
and service stations and the development of road—
side planting mainly throngh use of native plants.

With the assistance of this association, the
State Highway Department has planted thousands
of trees and shrubs along this highway. By p0pu—
lar acclaim and sanction of the two counties
through which it passes, this section of Highway
66 has been named the “Henry Shaw Garden-

way” as a memorial to the founder and donor of
the Missouri Botanical Garden. The new program
of the association is to secure easements on adja-
cent property, in some cases a half mile or more
from the road, particularly on land not suitable
for cultivation, for the planting of thousands of
native redbud, wild crab, dogwood and other
native plants—one type of forestation. This new
program has the enthusiastic support of the State
Highway Department and the Missouri Botanical
Garden. Undoubtedly our state highways have
great possibilities along similar lines. With the
gradual acquisition of “Rest—a-way” parks along
the routes, picnic grounds, and scenic overlooks,
many of them will indeed become park systems in
themselves.

This leads to consideration of “Tourways.”
This movement, inaugurated at the convention of
the American Society of Civil Engineers in Van-
couver, last July, proposes the construction of
great parkways throughout the nation, reserved
exclusively for the use of passenger autémobiles.
It is undoubtedly one of the foremost progressive
steps of our.generation in highway planning. The
aim of these “Tourways”—300 or more feet of
f reeways—would be to connect national, state and
local parks and other points of interest, and to
provide smaller parks along the way for camping
and sightseeing.

A few remarks about the possibilities of your
own profession are pertinent at this time. Park
executives today must be big business men. The
ability required in a good all-round park execu-
tive would probably bring in many times the in-
come he now receives if he were connected with
a large commercial enterprise. There is, however,
a large field still relatively Unexplored that chal-
lenges your ability, that of building up support
through public interest in your work and your
parks. Building up public pride in the park sys-
tem pays big dividends to the city in the tour—
ist travel it helps to create and in the support of
the citizens themselves. Obviously that they have
something to be proud of is assumed. In Mise
souri we have a Citizens’ Road Committee which
has greatly assisted the State Highway Commis-
sion in the development of the State Highway
System. Why not local and state park associa-
tions of interested citizens to act in an advisory
capacity and help put over park programs? En-
courage wealthy citizens to donate and endow
parks for the public as memorials to themselves

(Continued on huge .554)

A County Recreation Exposition

III-Z FIRST Westchester County Recreation

Exposition was held at the County Cen-

ter in White Plains, N. Y., from October
3Ist through November 6th under the auspices
of the Westchester County Recreation Com-
mission. Forty different civic, social or educa-
cational organizations cooperated in the under-
taking; of these, sixteen were recreation boards
operating under municipal auspices in various
communities of the county. Nearly as many
manufacturers or local dealers in equipment for
recreational activities also participated. Over a
hundred individuals worked toward the success
of the show as members or officers of commit-
tees representing twenty-five classifications of
recreation.

The main purposes of the Exposition, which
will be conducted annually hereafter, were de-
scribed as follows by E. Dana Caulkins, Superin-
tendent of the county's Recreation Commission:
First, to aid the citizens of the county in the
selection and cultivation of wholesome and satis-
fying recreational activities; and second, to aid
the local recreation agencies of the county by pro-
moting increased participation of citizens in locally
sponsored activities.

For a “first performance,” the results were
gratifying. The entire building was in use from
the Exhibit Halls in the basement to the Little
Theatre on the second floor. The great auditorium
was cleared and about a hundred booths were
erected with the aid of workers from the \Vest-
chester County Transient Center in nearby Elms-
ford. Here were shown equipment for indoor and
outdoor sports of all kinds, toys and games, and
old prints and jewelry for the collector. A modern
printing press, on which a newspaper The Ex-
position News was printed daily, and an airplane
were the outstanding exhibits in point of view of
size. Ten local recreation commissions arranged
attractive displays illustrating a wide variety of
recreational activity. The model of a proposed
airport for \Vestchester County OCCUpied a key
position on the main floor.

Other exhibits of unusual interest on this floor
represented such activities as dramatics, camping,

.540

Westchester County, New York, discovers
an activity so interesting and popular
that it will be made an annual event

fishing and hunting, gardenings, choral and instru-
mental music, hiking, amateur photography and
motion picture technique. The arts and crafts
were shown in the downstairs Exhibit Hall, as
were home activities, collections and models of
trains and ships. Not be fore, since the Center was
opened in 1930, have so many and such diverse
forms of leisure time pursuits been exhibited at
the same time. Nightly demonstrations of the
various activities added to the attraction of the
Exposition. '

From the hour the doors were opened each day
—--1 o’clock— until they closed at 10 P. LL, men
and women, boys and girls came to look and ask
questions. They came in groups and individually;
many families attended together. The first day’s
attendance was about 1,500, and each day there-
after, the number grew, until on the last day it
was estimated that about 7.000 people swarmed
into the Exposition. The total attendance was
about 30,000. Local newspapers commented on
the “tremendous interest" in recreation that this
figure indicated, and expressed the hope that “the
success of the first year will lead to a permanent
program.” A central committee was in charge.

The sale of a limited number of booths to com-
mercial exhibitors provided most of the income.
and the sale of admission tickets and souvenir
programs also helped to put the Exposition on a
self-supporting basis. Only the cooperation of a
large number of organizations made the affair
possible. Among those arranging exhibits or pro-
viding leadership and talent in the daily demon-
strations and entertainments at the show were the
following:

\Vestchester divisions of the American Red
Cross, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Federated Garden
Clubs of New York State, I’arent-Teachers’ As-
sociation, Federation of \Vomen’s Clubs, and the

(Continued on ,hagr 554)

And for o Backdrop
the Tyrolean Alps!

By LUCILE HOERR CHARLES

Director of Drama
American Peoples College in Europe

" E DROVE UP in deep night to the inn with a

flourish, finding our welcoming Poconians

sitting at tables in bright color under the
trees. A glamorous introduction to the Tyrol!
Hot tea and hearty greeting waiting for us;
then sleep under feather bed. In the early
morning I looked out to see unreal steep
mountains crowned in drifting mist. From then
to now has been a series of unreally beautiful
pictures. The unbelievably exquisite village;
white houses; painted walls, windows and
doorways; embellished inscriptions, carvings
on the outside of all the houses; the wayside
shrines, the covered bridges, the flowers; the
band with their shiny instruments which we
met in the street getting ready to play, all in
short pants, embroidered jackets, and broad—
brimmed felt hats trimmed with cock feathers
and Alpenrosen. Beauty is overflowing. I wish
I could recapture every moment of these two
days and deliver them entire to those at home.”

So reads the first entry of my journal after I
came to Oetz-in—Tyrol, the town where the
American Peoples College in Europe has its
headquarters. The first impression we all had
was one of utter charm, and we gave ourselves
up to enjoyment of the village.

Soon the drama group came together, how—
ever, and discussed plans. What would it be
appropriate to do here in this lovely valley?
How could we learn the most? What equip—
ment did we have? Where did our needs and
wishes lead us?

We had a grand feeling of freedom in this
planning. There was no set curriculum, no
course, grades, examinations or fixed text—
books. We were not obligated to produce a
play. True to the Peoples College tradition we
were here to make the most of ourselves and

 

Courtesy American Peoples C allege

our situation in whatever way seemed best.
Hence, the huge zest with which t0gether we

outlined our adventures and embarked upon
them!

Rumor drifted in that over in a clover field
there was an outdoor community theatre. We
set out to find it, passing slow-moving cow-
pulled wagons, and peasants raking in the
fields with hand-made wooden rakes and red
poppies against a blue sky on a slope above us.
\Ve were already making friends in the village;
the innkeeper called out “Gruss Gott,”. the
laundress waved to us as she came out to get

water from the crystal stream flowing past her
doon

The “F reilichtbuhne" (literally “freelight-
stage”) was exactly right. A plank floor,
weathergray ; a built-up rampart covered some-
what with sod and harebells; electric lights; a
gently sloping clover field for the audience to
sit upon, and the magnificent setting of snow-
covered Alps. By all means we must use this
outdoor theatre! And we did.

\Ve used it several times during the season.
we gave Capek’s “The Life of the Insects” for

one thing, and we gave our own version of how

541

542 AND FOR A BACKDROP THE TYROLEAN ALPS!

American students climb mountains in the
Tyrol for another. This last play we “Acher-
kogl" after the tallest peak in the neighbor-
hood, and I should like to discuss it for a
moment, since the process by which it was
assembled may be interesting to recreation
leaders who create plays on playgrounds and
in camps, or in the corner of a yard or perhaps
in a club room.

Our group had just completed a careful pro-
duction of two one-act plays in the Inn. Most
of us were in the relaxed happy recoil follow-
ing a successful performance. It was a glorious
afternoon. No one felt like doing very much ; in
fact only five felt like doing anything dramatic
at all. These five, plus the drama director, be-
took themselves over to the Freilichtbuhne,
books and blankets under their arms. They
read plays aloud for an hour or so, pausing
often to drink in the sunshine, the brilliant blue
sky, the white clouds, the noise of the mad,
crashing mountain stream a quarter of a mile
away, the amethyst heights of the encircling
mountains. At the end of a lazy hour, a spark
flared up. Someone noticed, as we sat there
in front of the stage, how the rampart repeated
the shape of Acherkogl, leaning back up there
high and clear. Came more suggestions from
two or three who had recently climbed the
mountain. Came the decision to give a takeoff
on the Acherkogl ascent, at the lireilichtbuhne.

Next morning the six of us met again at the
theatre, plus an elderly Viennese music profes-
sor who came along as an interested and
slightly scandalized observer. It was for the
learned llerr Doktor new and somewhat terri-
fying to see the casual manner in which these

Americans s to o d
around, joking and
laughing, tossing in
suggestions, anec-
dotes, giving sweep-
ing and impractical
suggestions for the
form of the play, all
helter-skelter, hit i or
miss, and everything
cheerfully
on paper by the dio
rector who was as
informal as the rest

of them. Yet the dis

recorded

f'rnrln- .- in m1» Profit: (“nth-gr

 

rector was in fact chairman, and as opportunity
arose he began suppressing some suggestions
and evoking others, helping to shape the
whole, reminding the group that the play must
be built upon a simple curve leading to a
climax and thereafter falling quickly away He
insisted upon a clean-cut beginning, climax
and end; what happened in between was less
important. \Vithin a few minutes it was agreed
that there should be three climbers, to be played
by Ann, I’eg and Jock. Jay would be Shep, the
guide, and Alice would be the Elements. The
scenario was roughly blocked out; each
character was defined as a type; the Herr
Doktor and the director seated themselves on
the footlights box in front, and the actors
sailed in.

One side of the stage was the village of
Oetz, whence the climbers set forth at two
a. n1. Very gaily, and well fortified by biscuits
and honey served even at that ungodly hour
at the home of the Director of the College (a
customary rite, by the way). In fact all the
incidents which occurred were culled directly
from life. The other side of the stage was
Bielefelder Hutte, the halfway house. The top
of the rampart was, of course, the mountain.
Back and forth the climbers tramped on a
switchback trail, across the stage on one long
board, and back along the next one. linroutc
the Elements ran forth with a sprinkling can
and the climbers were deluged, except Shep
the guide who thoughtfully carried an um-
brella! And so on through all the excitenients
and vicissitudes of the climb.

Losing one's trail (before meeting the guide)
stubbing one's toe, eating chocolate, drinking
at a pool, being rop-
ed together, watch-
ing an avalanche go
by, seeing the moon
rise (round piece of
paper raised by the
Elements with inim-
i ta bl e grandeur),
hunting for Edel-
weiss and an autumn
crocus, going through
a snowstorm, up

one terrific
ascent after the
other. with a final

:lCI‘OSS

AND FOR A BACKDROP THE TYROLEAN ALPS! 543

straddling of the dangerous saddle of rock from
one peak to the highest, Peg with her huge,
unlaced shoes; Jack, good natured, inclined
to be lazy’; Ann, complaining and drolly naive;
Jay (the guide) with his beer bottles and odd
rear elevation when climbing.

It is impossible to recapture the bloom of
theatre fun in a written report. Suflice it to
say that the Herr Doktor and the director
laughed at this first rehearsal until literally
they c'ried. Particularly funny was the last
awful ascent; the agony of those four grown
people trying to scramble up a three-foot slide;
the proud singing on the mountain top; the
quick descent; the takeoff on a Schulplattler
dance at Bielefelder Hutte. And Finally the
triumphant procession down the switch-back
trail, all fatigue gone, and into Oetz again. It
had the sparkle of a new and happy game.

That was the only rehearsal we had, too. In
the afternoon we met again to go over the
scenario in our minds and to check on the
props and signs. \Ve spread the word about
among the villagers and guests of the inns that
at six o’clock that evening we would give this
show which made fun of Americans climbing
the mountains.

At performance time perhaps sixty or
seventy people were in the audience, many of
them speaking only German but thoroughly
understanding the spirit of the play. The
American student section of the audience First
sang folk songs and Negro spirituals, answered
by Tyrolean folk songs from the mountaineers.
Then the small but noble band of actors held
forth for perhaps a half hour. And our frankly
impromptu, flexible little play, with a suffi—
ciently sound framework for the silliness and
fun to be pegged upon, was a hit. The peasant
children sat there with their buckskin shorts
and colored aprons, their long braids and crop-
ped heads, and squirmed with delight. The
village boys sat in a group together, slapping
their thighs over the antics of American
student mountaineers. The whole audienc‘e
howled with laughter. we are not at all modest
about our success. In fact we still gloat over it.

This play that we made up was only one
of the things the drama group of the American
Peoples College in Europe did in Oetz. More
formal productions took place, play readings,

speech and pantomime study. Also during this
orientation period at the college headquarters
we were studying language, history and current
events, and coming into contact with other
American students interested primarily in
music, physical education, psychology, or
general, social conditions abroad.

And then we set off on a Pocono study trip
through from live to nine different countries,
depending on what routing we took and how
long we stayed over. Some came to Europe
for only nine weeks and others stayed over for
a year. \Ve made swift comparative surveys
of the theatre in various countries. We visited
many types of performances from the most
Finished professional productions to those of
the most naive amateur. \Ve watched rehear-
sals, sat in government boxes, had interviews
with the President of the Hungarian Play-
wrights’ Association and the Director of the
Opera and the National Theatre in Vienna, met
Sil Vara, author of “Caprice,” visited Rein-
hardt’s theatre in Prague, saw performances of
O’Neill’s plays in Danish, the Czech Ballet and
the current theatrical excitement of Stockholm
and London. Throughout we were seeking the
relationship of theatre and life, watching par-
ticularly for echoes of the present social and
economic confusion.

Moreover, again in accord with the Peoples
College tradition, we were travelling for the
most part simply and modestly. Oh, we
splurged once in a while! \Vho will ever forget
that hotel in Paris? But for the most part we
lived in homes and inexpensive pensions and
traveled third class on the railroads and boats.
And by so doing we got really to know some-
thing of the life of the people, and we did
things literally as cheaply as they can be done.

Home again, not only with vivid memories
of the pastry piled with whipped cream we had
in Denmark, the moonlit sea, and that cow we
tried to milk in the Tyrol, but with an accumu-
lation of dramatic material and method, a
treasury of the stuff of the theatre as it occurs
in countries other than our own. We came
home with a new perSpective on our theatre
problems in America, and with a more specific

technique to use on that little show in our own
backyard.

A Field House IOO Percent "Play-full"

III-I CHILDREN of one of the

Newport, Rhode Island, play-

grounds have been so persis-
tent in sliding down the roof of a
little coal shed on the playground that it has been
necessary to reshingle it every two years. Taking
the tip from the children, several years ago we
built a maple slide on one side of the building with
stairs on the other. This the children used until
the surface became “slivery” and unusable.

The next step was the construction of a slide
shown as part of the building pictured in the il-
lustration. The surface was of white cement and
stone aggregates ground to a polished surface that
eliminates slivers and never rusts or corrodes. A
wooden foot piece converted it into a toboggan
slide in winter. This slide, with a wooden set of
stairs and a platform, was used until two years
ago when the C.W’.A. and F.E.R.A. completed the
project.

The building which resulted contains a main
room [6’ by [6’ with an oak bench around two
sides and a 4 foot fireplace giving ample heat for
spring and fall use. This room serves as a field
house dressing room, a club house for small neigh-
borhood gatherings, a shelter and workshop for
children on rainy days, and a place where indoor

544

By ARTHUR LELAND
Landscape Architect
Newport, R. l.

bacon bats may be held. There is
a broad stairway outside leading to
the roof and across to the slide.
There are no shingles, slate, tile or
conductors to be broken. In the building are a
toilet. lavatory and cold shower bath for girls
located under the stairs, a cold shower bath, urinal
and toilet for the boys placed under the slide, and
a lavatory inside the door of the main room. The
windows are high and covered with gratings. The
height of the platform forming the roof of the
building is 9 feet. The roof can be used for a
variety of purposes—as a bandstand, as an out-
door stage f or dramatic productions and as a ring
for boxing contests, as well as a play area and a
platform for the slide and stairs. If heat should
be required for winter use, a basement can be

added for the heating system and for storage
purposes.

The cost of materials was $l,08l.37, for labor
and supervision, $2,428.85, making a total ex-
penditure of $3.5!0.22. If done by contract the
cost might be reduced. The exterior of the build-
ing is of cobblestones salvaged from the city
streets; the interior, granite paving blocks secured

(Continued on page 554)

 

 

Courtesy C ommiuioners of the Palisades Interstate Park

\X/ORLD AT; PLAY

THE School Garden

Association of Ameri-
ca, which has been ac~
tively interested in
nature study in the public schools since 1910, has
launched a campaign to bring together into a na-
tional organization the nature study and garden
clubs which exist in the schools of the United
States. A series of leaflets dealing with various
kinds of club activity, medals of award, mem-
bership pins and other aids are being prepared.
Assistance will be given in planning and organiz-
ing new clubs in elementary schools as well as in
junior and senior high schools. Anyone interested
is urged to write to the Chairman of the National
Junior Club Committee of the School Garden As-
sociation—Karl H. Blanch, East Mauch Chunk
High School, East Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania.

Nature Study and
Garden Clubs

THE Commissioners
of the Palisades In-
terstate Park, New
York, are offering at
Bear Mountain an attractive program of winter
sports with skating, skiing, tobogganing, bob-sled-
ding, hiking, snow-shoeing and all the other ac-
tivities which make the park such an important
winter sport center. The schedule of special events

Winter Sports

includes the following: January 5th and 6th—
Olympic speed skating try-outs for the middle
Atlantic section; January I3th——Interstate ski
jumping tournament; January 27th—Palisades
ski jumping tournament; February IZth—Bear
Mountain ski jumping tournament. Winter
camps are maintained for the use of winter sports
enthusiasts which may be rented at a nominal
sum. 'These cabins, which vary in size, are fur-
nished with the essential kitChen and dining room
utensils, as well as with pots, mattresses and blan-
kcts. Winter sports equipment is also provided.
Further information may be secured from Miss
Ruby M. Jollif‘fe, Superintendent, Camp Depart-
ment, Palisades Interstate Park Commissioners,
I41 Worth Street, New York City.

THE Better Films
Committee, of Engle-
wood, New Jersey, an-
nouncing the findings
of a questionnaire answered by 1,500 grade and
junior high school pupils, states that the study
shows the majority of children preferring games
and athletics to movies. The average Englewood
child attends 4.3 times a month, some reporting
they have never been to a movie and others stat-
ing they attend as often as twenty times a month.

545

Movies, or Games
and Athletics?

546 - WORLD AT PLAY

 

S UMMER
SESSIONS

PENN STATE

Inter-Session. June 11 to June 28
Meta Session. July 1 to Aug. 9
Peat Session. Aug. 12 to Aug. 30

College degree: for students and teachers of
Health. Physical Education and athletic touching
Seeleu of degrees In Health and Physical Edu-
cation ind Penn State's popular summer session
Ideal. Cumbmes lbueuugh study I'Ilb eeal vaca-
tion [on m the hrarl u! the Allegbemes. Unusual
recreational upportunmel. Modem gymnasium.
Tumuu. too. and board surprisingly lute.

Graduate euuraee leading to advauced degrees.
Undergraduate courses leading nu baccalaureate
depee. Special tumors In athletic euaebmg t'ut
urea and wumeu. Nationally-known reaching "all.

For cu'tafog address
Director of Summer Senium

The PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
State College. Pa.

Values of Drama Tournaments—Community
appreciation of the activity of recreation de-
partments in organizing and promoting com-
munity dramatic tournaments is voiced in a
bulletin from the Young Men’s Hebrew Asso-
ciation in Birmingham, Alabama. The Park
and Recreation Board of that city last spring
promoted a one-act play tournament and made
available the Sharpe Cup for the winner. This
was awarded to the Dramatic \Vorkshop of the
Y.M.H.A. for what was alleged to be a truly
professional performance of “Confessional.’l
The Y.\I.II.A. News says: “The Park and Rec-
reation Board has done a splendid piece of
work by sponsoring a tournament such as this.
Amateur dramatic groups are brought together
in good fellowship to compete among them-
selves. The experience which every member
of a cast received by appearing before an in-
terested audience is invaluable training. The
theatre is the finest means of self-expression
and for that reason many of us who have shown
no interest should realize the field there is for
deveIOpment in acting. As for the “Y” Dra-
matic Group, it upheld as usual those tradi-
tions of fair play, cooperation and splendid ef-
fort which have always been its motto."

American Physical Education Association
Convention—The national convention of the
American Physical Education Association and
its Eastern District Society will be held in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, April 24-27, 1935.

The Southern District of the American
Physical Education Association convention
will be held at the lliltmore Hotel, Atlanta.
Georgia, April 3-6, 1935.

 

Camps for Young Men of Great Britain—
Great Britain is one of the countries which is
seeking through the establishment of camps to
do something for counteracting “the effects of
prolonged unemployment on the younger men
in the severely depressed areas.” Four physi-
cal training centers under full time instructors
were opened during 1932 for the benefit of all
young men between the ages of eighteen and
thirty who were wholly unemployed. The ex-
periment proved so popular that it was ex-
panded in 1933 through the creation of thirteen
new centers. This is entirely a recreational
and physical conditioning undertaking except
in the case of the Edinburgh Center. There
the courses are specialized for the purpose of
training men to lead physical training classes.
About 9,000 men have taken a twelve week
physical training course maintained by the
Ministry of Labor. By the close of 1933 some
of the classes had been taken over by private
welfare organizations.

A Sports Parade—On November 18, 1934,
50,000 individuals participated in a sports pa-
rade in Mexico. All the sport elements within
the republic were represented. The parade ter-
minated in front of the National Palace, from
a balcony of which President Rodriguez, Presi-
dent-elect Lazaro Cardenas, the full Cabinet
and the diplomatic corps applauded the various
athletic feats which were presented. Boys on
skates led the way, followed by venison hun-
tersl crack Mexican poloists, baseballl basket-
ball. rugby, soccer and tennis players, oars-
men, fencers and girl athletes of every class.
The enormous pmgress of sport in Mexico was
portrayed—From the New York Tfmt's, No-
vember 19. 1934.

Neighborhood Clubs—In Tampa, Florida.
the Board of Public Recreation is stressing the
organization of neighborhood clubs in some of
the most neglected sections of the city. Two
clubs, the De Soto Recreation Club and_the
Jackson Heights Improvement ClubI for young
men and women from sixteen to thirty-five
years, are making particularly gratifying prog-
ress and new members are joining each week.
The clubs are meeting a real need in their com-
munities. The jackson Ileights Improvement
Club is making plans to build a playground in
Jackson Park in connection with the club
house. Basketball courts. tennis courts, dia-

WORLD AT PLAY

mond ball fields, horseshoe pitching courts and
play facilities for small children are included in
the plans. Club members are raising funds and
securing volunteer help for the project. The
De Soto Recreation Club has held a dance at-
tended by 350 people. A nominal fee was
charged to defray expenses.

Gardening—Last year many gardening pro-
jects were provided through 4-H clubs. Forty-
four thousand boys and 132,000 girls were en-
rolled in home garden projects. During the
same period 3,411 boys and 66,198 girls inter-
ested themselves in beautification of home
grounds projects.

Eleventh Annual Junior High School Con—
ference—The School of Education of New
York University announces its eleventh anuual
Junior High School Conference to be held at
the School of Education, New York City, on
Friday and Saturday, March 8th and 9th. The
general subject for the conference is: “Junior
high school pupils—how can they achieve
democracy?”

Tennis Tournaments in Salt Lake City—In
August Salt Lake City completed its annual
city—wide tennis tournament, the most success-
ful in the history of the city. Approximately
1,000 individuals participated in the fourteen
different classes for a total of 820 matches and
2,390 participants. An opportunity to play was
presented to both young and old. High school
and college letter men, as well as major tennis
tournament winners, were barred from partici*
pation. This ruling proved an impetus in at—
tracting the average player and added zest to
the competition. No entry fee was required and
balls were furnished for the final matches.

Summer Emergency Classes—Education and
recreation centers developed in Pennsylvania
by the Department of Public Instruction as a
phase of the emergency education program
have enrolled 18,450 young men and women in
activities, according to the Public Education
Bulletin for August 1934. The centers have
been developed in school buildings, Y.M.C.A.’s
and other suitable public buildings having
nearby athletic' fields, playgrounds and swim-
ming pools. Sixty-two supervisors at these centers
directed handcraft classes, nature study, health
education, dramatics, sewing, industrial arts,
singing, dancing and athletic activities.

   
 

 

  

EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New EverWear Spring-Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR-206, (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special, EverWear-designed. fabric-re-
enforced. tough. springy. long-wearing, tubular. tire
stock rubber. whicb is so assembled in combination
with spring steel. as to give a soft, Springy. resilient,
swing seat of remarkable safety. strength and
durability.

 

A]] outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETY! Al] top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETY] Al] edges are
soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETY! All ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-
mediately Spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETY] No metal
parts are exposed wbere they can become dangerous:
SAFETY! No wood enters its construction: it can-

not warp, split nor Splinter: SAFETY] Requires
no painting.

Su5pension clevises are reversible, making botb sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles tbe
life of the seat): DURABILITY] Rubber tougb.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITY! Spring
steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITY]
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an

active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH] Edge-
ways. tbe seat can be sprung or bent under pressure
or blows (adding furtber to its SAFETY!) .

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY] Priced witbin
reach of every buyer wbo values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 eacb, net, f. o. b. Springfield.

Ohio, U. S. A. Price subject to change witbout
notice): ECONOMY] '

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOW I l
BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by

The EverWear Manufactung Company

Springfield. Ohio. U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker of play-
ground, beach and pool apparatus; a complete line of the
SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

547

548 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

         

MAGAZINES

Safety Education. January, 1935. .
Cities Protect \Vinter Sportsmen, by Marion
Holbrook.

Parks and Recreation, December, 1934.

What Parks Are Doing for Abundant Living, by
Ernest K. Thomas.

Proposed National “Tourways” Plan. by A. P.
Greensfelder.

Duties of the Park Board, by Phelps \Vyman.

The Value of Advance Planning in Park DeveIOp-

ment, by Harry J. Adams.

Preparing for Christmas, by V. K. Brown.

\Vhat Shall \Ve Do \Vith This Leisure? by V. K.
Brown.

Some Thoughts on Recreational Planning, by
Aldo Leopold.

Leisure, January, 1935.
Fun in \Vinter, by Dickson J. Hartwell.
Snow Men and Snow Menageries.
Yes. Make Your Own Furniture, by Edwin S.
Parker.

Lay Out
Marguerite Latta.

Soap Sculpturing, by James C. Ncylon'.

Your Garden by the Hearth, by

Parents‘ Magazine, January, 1935.

Youth Speaks (Account of the Youth Conference,
a part of the program of the 1934 Mobilization

of Human Needs), by Harry A. Overstreet.

The Red Cross Courier, January, 1935.
\Vhen \Vinter Comes, by Carroll Bryant.

International Labour Review, November, 1934.

Possibilities of International Action to \Vorkers’
Spare Time, by G. Mequet.

Review of Reviews, November 1934.
Learning How to Play, by Jo Chamberlin.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education.
January, 1935.

A State-\Vide Rural School Play Day Program,
by George F. Hendricks.

Co-Recreational Activities—an Editorial.

The Game of Ice Hockey. by Harriet M. Brown.
Home Duck Pin Bowling.

Crossball.

PAMPHLETS

Report of the Forester. 1934.
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
W'asliington, D. C.

Leisure-Time in Millburn.
Report for 1934 of the Department of Public
Recreation of Millburn, N. J.

All About Badminton.
Cragin-Simplex Corporation, New York City.

Seventh Annual Report of the Department of Public
Recreation of Irvington. N. J.. I934.

SADIUEL FRENCH’S
Catalogue of Plays

Our new 1935 complete Catalogue is now ready for dis-
tribulion. Completely revised and up—to—the—minute, it clas-
sifies and fully describes French's plays of distinction for
every need.

Our new system of classification is designed to enable
you to find just that Play, with the least possible effort.

Piece: read for your copy today.

SAMUEL FRENCH

pen. a.
25 West 45th 81., New York, N. Y.
811 West 7th St., Loa Angelea, Calif.

Play Streets in Philadelphia—Street play was
conducted in Philadelphia last summer through
funds for leadership provided by the local
\Vorks Division of the State Relief Bureau.
\Vorkers received training for a week preced-
ing the opening of the play streets. The pro-
gram consisted of games such as volley ball,
tennis with courts chalked off on the pave-
ments, and soft ball with modified rules. Each
session ended with group singing and story-
telling.

Recreational Progress in Great Britain --
During 1933 the National Playing Fields Asso-
ciation of Great Britain has been the recipient
of several gifts, which have increased to forty-
nine the number of recreation grounds which it
now holds. The Grants Committcclof the Car-
negie Trustees and the National Playing Fields
Association have made grants amounting to
£29,995 in aid of I 12 projects for acquiring and
letting out 761 acres in different parts of Great
Britain. The practice has been to contribute
one-sixth of the approved cost of acquisition,
layout and equipment, subject to the limitation
that no combined grant shall exceed £2,000.

Music in Tampa—Music is playing an im-
portant part in the program of the Tampa
Board of Park Public Recreation. A juvenile
orchestra of twenty-three members has been
organized under the direction of a volunteer.
Over 400 boys and girls are playing in play-
ground harmonica clubs and rhythm bands
under the direction of the F.E.R.A. recreation
music director. A stringed instrument and har-
monica band has been organized for older boys
and girls. Community sings are conducted each

 

inMWgn (7min... t ..t,]

LEISURE TIME RECREATION 549

week at one of the playgrounds. A F.E.R.A.
orchestra and band composed of twenty-six
musicians presents four concerts each week at
four parks. A Negro band of thirty-one musi-
cians plays twice a week.

A Citizens’ Committee Organized -—- On
August 16th, at a mass meeting held in Min—
neapolis, a citizens’ committee on public recre-

ation was organized to support the city’s recre-
ational program.

A Water Pageant in Steubenville, Ohio—A
crowd of 4,000 people attended the colorful
water pageant held in Steubenville under the
auspices of the Recreation Department. There
were events of many kinds, including in addi—
tion to the pageant, a chariot race, water polo
and canoe tilting. Music was provided by the
band organized in the community recreation
center. Performers in the pageant were all swim-
mers in the three city park pools.

Leisure Time Recreation

(Continued from page 514)

to face it in the administration of municipali—
ties, when we come to the point where we have
to cut, the easiest thing to cut usually is the
latest thing that came into the budget. The
old established things have built behind them
a tradition, have got back of them a support—
ing body in the community. The adventurous
things, the experimental things, don’t have that
same measure of support. And yet the interest-
ing thing about it is this, that the new thing
maybe has come in because it is a distinct
answer to a particular problem which has
arisen. You may be carrying the old activity
simply because it is a traditional activity, but
the new activity may be a definite response to
a particular need which has dramatized itself
so spectacularly that it has to be dealt with.
In other words, when we face this question of
cutting, we have to ask ourselves not merely
which is old and which is new, but we have to
ask ourselves how far is it, whether old or new,
meeting a definite and specific need. And when
we deal with these recreational problems it
seems to me that we ought to face them on
that basis and realize that this new develop-
ment in our municipal life is not something

    

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

BE READY

For the 1935 Season

with DIAMOND Official Pitching Horsesh‘oes
and accessories. There's keen enioyment for
everyone in the healthy exercise of horseshoe
pitching. The DIAMOND line is the favorite
of amateurs and professionals alike. Make
your plans NOW for the coming season.

Write for information

 

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46I0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

which has come out of the blue, but is some-
thing which has come in direct response to a
community need.

Men like you all over the country are in a
strategic place, to give leadership in this whole
field. \Ve don’t need to argue about leisure
time. For the masses of the people there is
going to be more leisure time than there has
ever been. Is that leisure time going to be a
social asset, or is it going to be a social liabil-
ity? And I should like to invite you to become
pioneers in your field and in the total social
structure in seeing if you cannot work out in
your municipalities some schemes for the use
of leisure time which will turn a potentially
dangerous factor into a constructive factor that
will bring joy unto the lives of your citizens.

An Error Corrected

On page 448 of the December issue of RECRE—
ATION the third line of the third paragraph should
read: “received eighty cents per day” instead of
“received eight cents.”

550 DR. .lfl'RON T. SCUDDER

7he Camping
magazine

If you are interested in

The leadership of youth.

The swiftly changing methods in organized
camping.

The statements of leading thinkers on educa-
tion ihrough camping.

Leadership fraining—Counsellor's Education.

Camp Programming—Adminisiraiion.

Outdoor Sports and Activities.

New Games. Land and Water.

Swimming—Canoeing—Sailing.

Riding—Archery—Riflery.

Woodcraft—Indian Lore—Nature.

Ar’rscraft—Dancing—Sfunts.

Council Fires-—Sfory Telling.

Then read the Camping Magazine regularly

Send for a sample copy $2.00 a year.

Lane Hall, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Dept. R

The Intercollegiate Outing Club
Association
(Continued from Page 515)

most valuable of the I.O.C.A.'s activities. Dart-
-1nouth held the first meeting on top of Mt.
Moosilauke; Yale held the second at the Yale En-
gineering Camp in East Lyme. Connecticut. and
New Hampshire University held the l934 eon-
ferencc at Swanzey Lake. New Hampshire, with
seventy-six delegates from twenty—one colleges
present. These were worth while grotlp discus-
sions of various outing elub problems. such as
finance. publicity. winter sports. eampus stlpport.
trips. cabins and trails. equipment. cte. The an-
nual business meeting of the association takes
place on Saturday evening. Following it a guest
speaker of prmninence addresses the delegates.
To judge by the number of outing elnbs that are
reorganizing it is apparent that the older and
stronger ones are assisting materially in improv-
ing the clubs in general.

The 1.0.(‘.'\. also sponsors a College Week of
mountaineering and camp life before the colleges
open in September. In ")3: College Week was
held at the .'-\ppalachian Mountain Club Shelter at

 

Dr. Myron T. Scudder

On December 28, l934. Dr. Myron Tracy
Scudder died of pneumonia at his home in New
York City. Dr. Scudder was one of the small
group of men and women who on April l2. 1906.
met nith Dr. Luther llalsey Gulick and Dr. Henry
S. Curtis to establish the National Recreation As-
sociation. then known as the Playground Associa-
tion of America.

\Vhile serving as principal of the State Normal

School at New Paltz. New York, Dr. Scudder
conducted a county play day which received
recognition far and wide. Dr. Scudder was one
of a small group of educators who early recog-
nized the importance of play in education.
Throughout his long life of useful service Dr.
Scudder maintained his interest in the recreation
movement.
Great Gulf in the Presidential Range of the White
Mountains. The l934 College Week will be held
in the same place from September 8th to 15th.
Last year it was held in the Mt. Marey region of
the Adirondacks. Each club gets its own group
together with its own supplies and equipment. A
definite place is designated as a base, but each
group is free to come and go as it pleases. This
feature furnishes opportunity for a splendid fel-
lowship without the necessity of being obliged to
move about with too large a crowd.

joint trips are likewise a very pOpular innova-
tion, especially between the men's and women’s
eolleges. One elub invites another to send some of
its members for a week-end with a few of its
group. generally held at the hosts' or hostesses’
eabins. The time is spent delightfully in activities
of the outing type. and a splendid spirit of eom-
radeship is being developed among those who
participate.

A New Method of Protecting lce Rinks

(Continued from page 519)

joyed eighteen nights and eight days of fine skat—
ing on the burlap shaded rink. ln l03l-32 there
were fifty-seven days of good ice and in 1933.
sixty-three days.

Business men. high school boys. and juniors
have formed hockey teams at many places in the
Rocky Mountains. including Golden. Boulder.
Denver. Longlnont. and Fort Collins. Colorado.
and at Laramie. Wyoming. and they all partieipate
in tournaments all over the region.

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR CONDUCTING SOCIAL GAMES 551'

In the summer team members are kept busy
mending and sewing burlap for curtains. \Vith a
simple homemade rack twenty by three feet,
equipped with nails along each side, the workers
stretch a double thickness of the burlap or a sack
that is three feet wide and then sew the ends
together with stout cord and a wool sack needle.
The sacks are lifted from the nails and moved
along as the cross~seams are completed. ’

Seldom has a sport furnished so much pleasure
to spectators and players at so little expense as
has the ice hockey of the Rocky Mountain Region.

Suggestions For Conducting

Social Games
(Continued from page 520)
boring. When the group starts to lose interest in
a game, announce a limit to the time that it will
be continued. Render quick decisions on rules
when necessary.

4. Help Rotate the Ones Who Are "It." The
question sometimes arises as to whose turn it is
in those games where someone is “it.” In such
cases the leader should quickly decide, giving the
turn preferably to someone who has not previ-

ously been chosen or who has not had the chance
to be “it.”

 

SUBSCRIBE $1.00 YEAR

THE CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY

A Journal of Community Religion
RICHARD E. SHIELDS, Editor

How to Unite Churches

Articles by writers of
The Community Church Movement

 

 

 

Vital News. Religious Digest

 

TWICE MONTHLY EXCEPT SUMMER
Published by

THE COMMUNITY CHURCH WORKERS.U.S.A.

77 West Washington Street. Chicago }

 

5. Let a Change in Games Seem Spontaneous.
It is sometimes better not to have it seem as if
the whole evening has been budgeted and that the
leader is deciding all of the games. The latter
fault can be avoided by having someone primed to
suggest a game that was previously agreed upon
with the leader. Or the leader can himself say:
“Someone has suggested that we play such and
such a game,” rather than directly indicate that it
was his idea. At a more informal party sugges-
tions may just as well come from the group
especially when the games are well known.

RECREATION LEADERS
DO YOU KNOW EVERYTHING

going on in your field and in the closely allied
fields of health and physical education?

There is no better way of keeping up-to-the-minute than by perusing
the leading articles of the month, condensed for easy reading in the

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

HEATH and RECREATION

DIGE ST

"An article a day: a dollar a year."

Send only a dollar (or ask us to bill you) for a year's subscription.

The DIGEST
29 Exeter St.

Boston. Mass.

 

552 MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS

NEW SONG SHEETS
AVAILABLE

Songs for Informal Singing
$.10 per copy: $7.50 per 100

O This sheet contains words and melodies of
the songs which were sung at the Twenti-
eth National Recreation Congress.

Selected Hymns—For the Church.
Home. School. Camp. Club or

Community Gathering
$2.10 per 100

O The thirty hymns chosen for this leaflet
together offer a rich and stimulating variety
of fine feelsz and ideas that can make
hymn singing a most inspiring and enioy-
able experience.

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

6. Do Not Explain New Games At Length. For
a large gathering it is better to give a few indi-
viduals the instructions beforehand or while the
rest are already occupied with some other activity.
Let those who know the game start it; the others
are likely to learn very quickly by watching.
Special points can be explained as they come up
rather than all at the beginning.

7. Do Not Win Too Often. This also applies to
losing. Since the games are for diversion, in cer-
tain games the element of winning should not
enter in too strongly. An entertaining player, and
especially the leader, will endeavor to make the
game more amusing at times by permitting him-
self to be made “it,” or when the game is too
easy, by pretending that it is difficult. Certain in-
dividuals can let themselves be eliminated when
it is desirable to speed up the game.

8. Avoid Melting People Feel Self-Conscious.
Many games derive their entertainment or fun-
value through making certain individuals the
"goat." in starting such games, )ick for "it" those
individuals who will not take 0 ense or be bash-
ful. Plan to work in the more timid persons
gradually and casually.

9. Select Participants Rather Than Call for Vol-
unteers. This suggestion applies to games which
require only a limited number of the group. Many
people will not volunteer speedily or without coax-

 

ing and this naturally slows up the game. Also,
through selecting the participants, the bashful and
the less popular individuals are given more op-
portunity to take part. Announce the name of the
game after the players have been obtained because
otherwise someone will usually refuse to play.
People are frequently reluctant to participate
when they know what is to be played, whereas
they may be more willing to try a new or an un-
announced game.

Municipal Rose Gardens
(Continued from page 529)

the hybrid perpetuals should not be pruned quite
as hard as the teas and hybrid teas.

The hardy climbers that produce large flowers
are not pruned very hard. Each spring cut back
only the side growths on the canes which may be
kept three or four years if they are healthy and
in good condition. Once in a while, tie in a strong
young cane to replace an older one. Dead wood
and weak growths should be removed.

The small flowered climbers or ramblers bloom
best on canes which grew the previous season. As
soon as the flowering period is over, cut out the
canes which have borne flowers near the ground
or down to the place where a strong new cane is
pushing out on the older one. Tie a few of these
new canes to the supports as they grow. They
will produce flowers the following season.

The shrub roses need only to have some of the
older canes cut out occasionally to keep the plants
in good shape. Allow them to assume their nat-
ural habit of growth, removing only dead and
weak wood each spring.

Spraying

Give all roses a spray of bordeaux mixture or
lime sulphur just as soon as the pruning is com-
pleted early each spring. Just as soon as the buds
start growing a regular program of weekly spray-
ing should be started and kept up throughout the
season until fall. Use hordeaux mixture to keep
in cheek such diseases as black spot and mildew,
and nicotine sulphate to control aphis.

l’yrethrum extract sprays seem to discourage
rose bugs. Soot from the chimney raked into the
surface soil around the roses is also helpful in
preventing damage from rose bugs.

Labeling

Much of the value of a municipal rose garden
in encouraging the public to plant roses in their
own gardens will he lost if the roses are not
clearly and correctly labeled. Neat wooden labels
eight or ten inches long and two inches wide,

THE PUBLIC LIBRARY IN THE PROGRAM OF LEISURE TIME 553

painted a butt color and lcttered with green paint,
make a good label. They should be attached to
strong iron rods three feet long. Place them in
the beds so that they stand eighteen inches above
the soil.

The Public Library in the Program

of Leisure Time
(Continued from page 531)
fourth and last category of hobbies) says: “To
certain types of minds study is the most fascinat—
ing pursuit in the world. An education is not
necessary. By this means you can educate your-
self. Thousands of men have done it, some of
them becoming world authorities in their sub—
jects.” Ten years ago libraries began to give
especial attention to the self—student. Now there
are over fifty public libraries with specially quali—
lied readers’ advisers on their staffs whose job
is to give unhurried. sympathetic, and confidential
hearing to any individual with a desire for a self-
study program, to help him map out such program
or reading course, and to continue to act as his
individual adviser and consultant as he goes
through the various stages of his self-study

COUI'SC.

Unlimited courses of study. Most' of the appli-
cants to such readers’ advisers want general cul—
tural background, a reading course to compen—
sate inadequate formal education, general brush—
ing up and study to keep apace with their world.
The study topics of others range from rabbit rais-
ing to the Einstein theory. A person’s range of
study is not limited to the courses offered in local
classrooms if there is a good library with a read--
ers' adviser in town. Even the readers’ adviser is
not a downright necessity. Most public libraries
of any size arc interested and informed enough in
this broadspread emphasis on informal education
through reading to provide some readers’ advisory
service with their existing trained staff, even
though their budgets do not allow the employment
of an extra person for this service.

Education becomes recreation. In Section IV on
"Learning things” in Mr. Calkins’ “Finding list”
he says: “After all you have two of the three
requisites of education, books and your own ob-
servation. The only other one is guidance——that
is, a teacher. In study followed as a recreation
you supply the guidance; you educate yourself.”
It is exactly here that the modern public library
may make a contribution to recreational study that
perhaps will not be made by the formal classroom ;

 

READ

LEISIIIE

THE MAGAZINE OF A THOUJ'AND DIVE-QIIOHI

For Inspiration and Ideas in Planning Your
Leisure-Time Programs

EISURE appeals individually to everyone who wants
to get the most out of life. It is packed full of
countless substitutes for boredom. Every month its
pages point to new and interesting things to do.
featuring pleasurable activities in season.

LEISURE is the only magazine catering to the leisure
tastes of every member of the American family. It is
educational without being scientific. It opens the way
to better living and greater happiness. You find new
introductions to Games—Sports.
Hobbies—Collections.

Photography . . . Creative Arts.
Puzzles. Dramatics. Travel. Music.

Hand Crafts. Nature Study. and
many other subiects.

INSTRUCTIVE
ENTERTAINING
STlMULATlNG

 

 

 

i ' .; '4

Clean from Cover to Cover

Parents, Educators, and Civic Leaders are
unreserved in their praise of LEISURE

"A copy of LEISURE in every home woold be a Godsend to
folks who have never before had the time for recreation. nor the
education for its ose." R. A. Hoyer. Director. Dept. of Boy
Goidance. Graduate School. Notre Dame University.

"A magazine like yours can do much to save our young peeple
from £nding unwholesonie ootlets for their surplos energies by
putting before them in attractive and aothoritative form the
many fields of activities which will satisfy their cravings for ad-
venture. for creation. for co-operation. and for leadership." Eroest
Hermann. Dean. Sargent School of Physical Edocation.

"We have enjoyed the magazine very mocb and feel that it,is
of value in programs soch as oors.” Looise Goodyear. Girl Scout

Peace Hoose. Buffalo. N. Y.

"Your magazine has been recommended to me by the State De-
partment of Edocation." F. A. Bell. Sopt., Amador Coonty
Schools. Cal.

"It is a bully magazine and made a great hit with the kids as
well as Dad.” John F. Brosnan.

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER TO
' READERS OF RECREATION

I5 months only — $|.OO

—HHFH—FH__HH *_q——I‘_l—l l—l-n

FILL IN YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS. SEND BILL.
CHECK. STAMPS 0R. M. 0. (Canadian or Foreign Post—50c.

extra). R
LEISURE. 683 Atlantic Ave.. Boston. Mass. ‘33::
Please send yoor special 15 months offer—$1.00 eoclosed.

NAME 
ADDRESS ................................................................................................. ......
CITY ................................................................... .. STATE 

the library supplies guidance to the books. From
there on “you educate yourself.” That allows the
recreational element to be preserved. It is in-
formal education, a type which sustains enthUsi—
asm and develops initiative in the learner.

It is h0ped that this sketchy catalog of library
resources will suggest to planners in the leisure-

'JI

 

New Tested Plays
for Your Dramo Program:

0 Contest Winning One-Act Plays—

Not Only the Guppy. Just Till Morning.

And Sendeth Rain. Without First Aid.
Sheep

0 Plays for Children's Theatres—

The Emperor’s New Clothes. Cinderella.
The Sleeping Princess. The White Peacock.

0 New Non-Royalty Plays—
Marrying Martin—3 act Comedy
Taps—-Patriotic Drama in 1 act

These and over 50 other new tested plays by
outstanding writers are fully described in the Spring

lssue of. . .

PLAYS OF THE MONTH

Also in this issue: Articles by Dean Ralph Dennis,
Northwestern University School of Speech. and
Carl Click, Little Theatre Columnist.

Send your name and address today
for your free copy to

Frederick B. lngram Productions,lnc.
Ganser‘l’ Building Roclc Island, lllinois

 

time and recreational fields that libraries should
be called on and drawn into these activities more
and more. The library is perhaps too often as-
sociated with the Cloister and the task-like school
in the public mind and it will be more appreciated
and used as reading comes to be thought of as
recreation rather than a chore. The modern li-
brarian is ready and anxious now for this change,
anxious to get into the developing life of the
community. The more demands made on him in
the leisure-time and informal education fields, the
more reason and incentive he will have for ex-
panding his service in those directions.

An Old-Fashioned Valentine Party

(Continued from page 535)

A Valentine Menu:
Hearty Helping (Creamed Shrimp in
Heart Tintbales)
Cupid's Relish (Olives)
Pan's Delight (Hot Biscuits)
Juno’s Hearts (l-leart shaped cookies)
Latte Potion (coffee)

“Backward, turn backward, 0 time in your flight
Take us back twenty years, just for a night,
Bring back the joys that we once used to know,
Bring back the scenes of two decades ago."

54 NEW TRENDS IN PARK PLANNING

New Trends in Park Planning
(Contimwd from page 539)

while they are still alive. Why wait until a man is
(lead before you honor him? University City,
Missouri, has a park named for every one of its
former mayors, named while the man was-still
alive. This movement should be encouraged.

These are only a few of the present day trends
in park planning. The discussions of the past few
days before this Institute have brought before
you many others, some of greater importance
than those mentioned here. That new tendencies
are numerous is but proof of the rapidly chang-
ing conditions of the times; the necessity for all
park men to be alert fOr new solutions to these
new problems is vital.

A County Recreation Exposition
(Continued from page 540)

Y.\V.C.A.; \Vestchester County Air Pilots Asso-
ciation, and the Animal Protective League, Arch-
ery Association, Choral Society, Camera Club,
Drama Association, Park Commission, Recreation
Camps, Trails Association, Badminton Associa-
tion, Miniature Aircraft Association, Philatelists’
Association of \Vestchester County, and the “fest-
chester \Vorkshop.

The following recreation commissions were
represented: Eastchester, Elmsford, Hastings,
Mount Kisco, Mount Vernon, North Tarrytown,
North Castle, New Castle, Ossining, Port Ches-
ter, Tarrytown, Valhalla, \Vhite Plains and Yon-
kers; and the Mamaroneck Adult Activities
Conncil.

A Field House IOO Percent "Play-lull"

( C ontimwd from 15090 5‘”)

from the same source. The only cost for material
was that involved in hauling.

Everything on a playground should suggest the
thought of play and should contribute to it. Much
of our standard building design and construction
does not do this and often impedes play. This is
the reason for much of the rough treatment which
so many buildings receive.

Many of the most effective playgrounds must
be located where land is valuable. The type of
construction described supplies two or three story
space and keeps the building "low and inconspicu-
ous,” a requirement for many buildings, among
them the recreation buildings in Central Park,
New York City.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Challenge of Leisure

By Arthur Newton Pack. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.00.

MR. PACK’s book is indeed a challenge, and everyone

interested in the leisure time field will be grateful
to him for presenting the subject in so thought-provok-
ing and stimulating a way. Mr. Pack points out that
leisure is no mere 'by-product but an end in itself to be
developed fully and constructively as a creative impulse
and opportunity. He emphasizes the possibilities iwhich
lie in increased leisure and its use in connection with
agriculture, nature, sports, the arts, literature, education
and human relationships. He takes a stand for wide
guidance and direction of leisure. “Its mere existence is
not enough.” He pleads for a conception of leisure which
will give it “some undiscovered social value and economic
value in terms of human living.” “Leisure,” he says, “is
an indispensable part both of economics and social ex-

istence—it is the greatest of all the challenges to the
leaders of civilization."

Fun 0' the Fair

By Kenneth Grahame. J. M. Dent and Sons, London.
E. P. Dutton and Company, New York. $.50.

THOSE WHO FOLLOW the wandering trails in the cara-
vans which play so important a part in the little vil-
lage fairs of the countryside of England, are delightfully
described in this booklet. And the amusements which
make up a country fair are so alluringly enumerated that
the reader has indeed lost the spirit of youth who does
not wish he might share in this feature of spring in

England.
The Wise Choice of Toys

By Ethel Kawin. The University of Chicago Press.
$1.00.

THIS exceedingly informational booklet is an outgrowth

of an exhibit of toys held last year under the auSpices
of Marshall Field and Company of Chicago and the
University of Chicago. Toys were grouped in the ex-
hibit primarily on the basis of their use or function.
The exhibit was accompanied by lectures and by consul-
tation with a child psychologist. At the close of the
first exhibit numerous requests were received for c0pies
of Miss Kawin’s lectures and to meet this demand an
arrangement was made with the University of Chicago
Press for their publication. The lectures deal with the
wise choice of toys, their classification according to
deveIOpmental powers along certain lines, play materials
for arts and crafts, and personality needs.

Nature Chats

By John Harvey Furbay, Ph.D. Science Press Printing
Co., Lancaster, Pennsylvania. $1.75.

HERE is a chronicle of nature’s year, presenting fifty-

two essays—«one for each week of the year. With
its extensive appendix containing outlines and suggestions
for practical nature study during each season, it is an

2

excellent guide for teachers, Scout leaders, recreation
workers and all who wish to know the out-of-doors.
“Nature study is not merely the finding of facts and

learning of names. It is in the last analysis the finding
of life itself, and its true meaning."

Art Adventures with Discarded

Materials

By Evadna Kraus Perry. Wetzel Publishing Company,
Inc., Los Angeles, California. $2.00.

"IN the trash box and rag bag lie thrilling adventurcs

and unsuspected happiness," says the author in her
preface. And in proof of her statement she describes
many fascinating things to be made from newspapers
and wrapping paper, magazine advertisements, paper bags
and flour sacks, old stockings, cardboard boxes, tin cans,
scrap lumber, spools and other old materials. Miss
Perry’s book comes at a time when it can be used to
the greatest possible advantage.

The Design of Residential Areas

By Thomas Adams. Harvard University Press, Cam-
bridge, Mass. $3.50.

THIS book is Volume 6 of the Harvard City Planning
Series, which deals with various phases of man’s ar-

rangement and use of this environment. It is in two

sections, the first of which discusses basic considerations

,which affect developments of land for housing in all

urban areas, the other dealing with 'broad principles and
methods of design. Commenting on the section devoted
to basic considerations, Mr. Adams states: “I think too
much research in city planning has related to mere fact
finding regarding existing conditions and to attempts at
working out projects that accept these conditions as
inevitable without inquiring as to whether it would not
be better to ignore them because of their false founda—
tions.” The section dealing with principles and methods
of design contains detailed discussions of such questions
as elements in the neighborhood plan, lot costs and home
neighborhood patterns. One of the factors discussed is
the amount, types and distribution of public Open Spaces.
“The total area of the general park system should not
'be less than 10% of the total area of the city.” In dis-
cussing the neighborhood plan, however, it is estimated
that “as an ideal arrangement not less than 15% of space
should be kept Open in parks and playgrounds, 10%
being provided at the cost of the community at large
and 5% contributed by owners for local use in residen—
tial areas.”

Among the various questions discussed are the relation
between open Space and block planning, interior block
parks and the general park system. The many plans and
illustrations and the carefully prepared index add to the
usefulness of this volume which, in view of the nation-

wide interest in housing deveIOpments, should be of
interest to thoughtful recreation workers.

555

556 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Stamp Collecting.

By Henry Renouf, Little Book No. 14. Leisure League
of America, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. 25¢

In its fourteenth publication the Leisure League of
America has taken up a subject which is close to the
hearts of many individuals. The appeal this hobby makes
to all the world, may be duc to the fact that "it helps
to satisfy that yearning for the unknown, that longing
for strange and far away places which so fcw of us
can ever satisfy.” Whatever the basis of its appeal,
stamp collecting has been going on for over ninety years.
as the author points out in a chapter entitled “In the
Beginning," which gives an interesting history of the
devclopmcnt of thc hobby. Other chapters deal with
"The Background of Collecting.” “Our Accessories."
“Specializing.” “Identification,” “So—Called Technical:-
ties" and "Definitions." Therc arc a number of unique
illustrations. Every stamp collector will want this
booklet.

Achievement Scales in Physical Education Activities
--For Boys and Girls in Elementary and
Junior High Schools.

By N. P. Neilson and Frcderick \V. Cozens. California
State Department of Education, Sacramento.

This study represcnts an important addition to our
prescnt set of measuring instruments. There is constant
need with the changcs which have'takcn place in the
program of physical education, for more accurate infor-
mation about thc capacities and abilitics of pupils. The
study was a state-wide project in which more than 79,-
000 boys and girls wcre testcd in various events. Part
I is devoted to a discussion of the classification of
pupils and instruments for giving the tests; Part 11
deals with achievemcnt scales for boys and girls. and
Part III with suggcstions on competition: and techniques
used in the construction of the scales.

Board Member-3' Manual.

Prepared by the National Organization for Public
Health Nursing, Inc. Published by The Macmillan
Co., New York. $1.25.

In line with the growing.interest in thc education of
volunteers, including members of boards, is the "Board
Members’ Manual" prepared by the National Or-
ganization for Public Health Nursing. The purpose of
this publication is to serve as a handbook of reference
for boards of directors of non-oflicial public health
nursing organizations. A feature of the publication
is the attcntion given to afliliated health groups such as
the Red Cross and the medical profession. There are
chaptcrs on the following tOpics: Fundamental Prin-
ciples, How to Organize, The Association, Oflicers—
Qualifications and Duties, Committees, The Board and
Finance. Board Meetings. Developing Rural Nursing,
The Board's Relation to the Staff. Regulations of Serv-
ice. Relation to Medical Profession, Relationship to
National Organizatimis. The appendix includes among
other things an outline of training institutes for board
mcmhers. The book contains a bihliography for reference
reading and an adequate index. The introduction was
written by Dr. Ceorgc E. Vincent.

Call to Adventure.

Edited by Robert Spiers Benjamin. Grecnberg Publisher,
Inc. New York. $2.00.

Boys and girls from ten to eighteen and possibly
older ones, too. will find keen pleasure in these true tales
of adventure sct down by the men who actually ex-
perienced thcm. Among the tellers of the tales are such
well-known names as Zane Grey, Lowell Thomas and
Commander Frank M. Hawks. in all twenty adventurers
lliave given us stories of the fascinating things they have
cone.

Enjoy Your Museum Series.

Edited by Carl Thurston. Esto Publishing Company,
P. O. Box 46, Pasadena, California. 10¢ each.

This delightful scries on sale at many of the museums
of the country is rapidly growing. Fifteen books are now
available covering a variety of subjects, among them the
following: How I Make a lVoodcut. by Rockwell Kent:
Costs of Great Sculpture, by Lorado Taft: Indian Pot-
tcry of the Rio Grande, by Lfary Austin; American
Furniture of the 18th Century, h_v \Valter A. Dyer.

Must A Nation Plan?

A Discussion of _Government Programs by Benson
Y. Landis, Assocmtion Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
.\ew York City: $2.00 cloth, $1.23 paper.

Discussion groups in our schoolhouscs and in our com-
munity centers necessarily will be considering various
phascs of the United States Government pr0gram: the
reason why various policies have been adOpted. The
problem of rccreation is so inclusive that it is fairly es-
sential that recreation workers should stick pretty close
to their own field. At the same time, as citizens in con-
tact with many other citizens, they most 'earnestly desire
full information as to what their government is doing
and the reasons for the courses of action taken. Dr.
Landis’ book is well written, is easily read, will help each

reader to be more intelligent about the present-day world
in which he is living.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Josern Lea, President

Jonn H. quv. First Vice-President
Jonn G. Wmaxr. Second Vice-President
Roar" Gaaaar'r, Third Vice-President
GUSTAV!!! '1‘. Run, Treasurer

Howaao S. Baaucnaa. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Eowun W. BIDDLI, Carlislc, Pa.
Wruan Burrnwoarn, Moline, Ill.

Cuaanca M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

Hana? L. Conan, Portland. Ore.

Mu. Arer G. Cunnaa, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tamas Dawson, Locust Valley. L 1.. N. Y.
Mas. Tnonas A. Korean, West Orange, N. J.
JOIN! It. Ftuur, New York, N. Y.

Roaaar Gnurr, Baltimore. Md.

Ausria E. Gaunt-us, Seattle, Wash.

Cnntas Haven, New York. N. Y.

Mas. Cnaaua V. “10:01, Michigan City, Ind.
Mu. Francis oaLacv vaoa, Plaintield. N. J.
Connor '1‘. Kit", New York, N. Y.

1!. MCK. Latinos, Indianapolis, Ind.

Mas. Cnnus I). Maura, Greenwich, Conn.
Roarar Lustraa, Charlotte. N. C.

Josarn Lea. Boston. Mass.

Eowno E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCuaov, Springfield. Man.

0110 T. MALLIIY, Philadelphia, Pa.

Wauaa A. Liar, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Cut. E. Matinee, Augusta. Me.

Mas. Ocean 1.. MILLS, Woodbury. .'. Y.

Mn. Jana: W. “'anawoanl, Ja., Washington. D. C..
J. C. Waun. New York. N. Y.

Funnier: M. \\'nauao, New York. N. Y.
Joan G. Wimar, Concord, N. H.

Mu. \Vrutau If. Woooiu, 1a., Tucson, Aria.

