THE NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION GIVES OVER
AN ISSUE OF RECREATION
TO THE LIFE OF IOSEPH LEE
BECAUSE FOR TWENTY-
SEVEN OF THE THIRTY-ONE
YEARS OF ITS EXISTENCE
IOSEPH LEE HAS BEEN ITS
LEADER AND BECAUSE HIS
LIFE AND IDEALS EMBODY
SO MUCH OF WHAT THE AS-
SOCIATION HAS STOOD FOR
AND STANDS FOR TODAY

December 1937

 

Vol. 31 DECEMBER 1937 . No. 9 l

RECREATION

Published by and in the interests of the National Recreation Association
formerly named Playground and Recreation Association of America

Published monthly Subscription $2.00 per year 1

315 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y. Price Fifty Cents t ‘
RECREATION is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader’s Guide

 

Table of Contents

PA

A Prayer, by Rev. Vivian T. Pomeroy, D. D. . . . . . . . 51
Extract from "Pilgrim's Progress” . . . . . . . . . . 51
Resolution by Board of Directors, National Recreation Association . I. 51
The Play Life of Joseph Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
"Joseph Lee Loved to Play,” by Mary Lee . . . . . . . . 51 :
Skating with Joseph Lee, by Francis G. Curtis . . . . . . . 52 .
Fishing with J. L., by E. A. Codman, M. D. . . . . . . . . 52 _ 1
Prophet in Education, by Henry W. Holmes, LL. D. . . . . . . 52 ' J
Joseph Lee and the Boston School Committee, by David D. Scannell, M.D. 52
From Jacob Riis in 1902 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
With the Class of 1883 at Harvard, by George D. Burrage . . . . 53
Joseph Lee, by John F. Moors . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Notes About Joseph Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 '
Joseph Lee and the National Recreation Association . . . .' . 5393
Joseph Lee—His Contribution to Social Work, by Eva Whiting White . 543'
About Community Service of Boston, by Charles Jackson . . . . 545
Joseph Lee, Creative Philanthropist, by Edward T. Hartman .r . . 546
Joseph Lee and the Massachusetts Civic League in Later Years, 1

by Jeffrey R. Brackett, Ph. D. . . . . . . . . . . 550
Joseph Lee and The Survey, by Edward T. Devine . . . . . . 551
Joseph Lee as an Educator Knew Him, by Clark W. Hetherington, Ped.D. 553
As Seen by a Recreation Executive, by Ernst Hermann . . . . . 555
A Few Impressions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Joseph Lee and Music, by Archibald T. Davison, Ph. D. . . . . 558
Looking Backward over Joseph Lee's Lite, by Otto T. Mallery . . . 559
A Tribute to Joseph Lee by The Right Reverend William Lawrence, DD. 560
The Gentle Humor of Joseph Lee, by Tam Deering . . . . . . 561.,
Play in Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
At the National Recreation Congresses . . . . . . . . . 567
Joseph Lee, Philosopher, by Theodate Geoffrey . . . . . . 569
From Private Letters of Joseph Lee . . . . . . . . . . 573
Why Men and Women Contributed Through Joseph Lee . . . . 578
From Friends of Joseph Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Moses in the Bulrushes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581 .
Joseph Lee, Citizen, by Hon. John F. Fitzgerald . . . . . . . 582

 

Entered as second-class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post Office at New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Accept 1
ance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. \
.1:

Copyright, 1937, by the National Recreation Association

 

A Prayer

Let us thank God for JOSEPH LEE.

For his many years of life among us;

For his unselfish work to help others;

For his devotion to the life of all children;

For his faith that there is joy at the heart of things;
For his assurance that there is good in everyone;

For his persistence in expecting a nobler world;

For his generous purposes which were without guile;
For his delight in simple things;

For his imagination which bridged the gulfs of
circumstance and creed;

For his counting himself no better than others, but
gathering up in himself the better thoughts of many;

For his gentleness which made others feel greater;

For his continuing influence, and the things which
abide with us always—

We thank the God of Life and bless His Holy Name.

0 God, accept our thanksgiving for our beloved citi-
zen and for all of like spirit, in the name of Thy son,
Jesus Christ, who did lift up the weary and set a little

child in the midst of His disciples.
AMEN.

Prayer offered by Rev. Vivian T. Pomeroy, D. D., at the funeral services
for Joseph Lee at King's Chapel, Boston, on July 30, 1937.

513

514

Extract from "Pilgrim’s PrOgress"

Read by Rev. Vivian T. Pomeroy, D. D.
at the Funeral Services of Joseph Lee

T is fitting at this time that there should be added to the words of an-
cient scripture a passage from Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress.”

"Now I saw in my dream that they went on, and Greatheart
walked before them. The way was narrow and sometimes steep.

"Then he took the little boy by the hand and led him the rest of
the way; and at the hardest places he lifted him and carried him. 'Well,
how do you like being a pilgrim?’ he asked, when they had reached the
top. 'Very well, sir, and I thank you,’ answered the boy. 'It is like going up
a ladder; but I would rather climb a ladder than fall into a pit.’

"And now, looking up, they saw the House Beautiful not far ahead
of them; and going on with haste, they soon came to the porter's lodge.
Night was already come, and all was dark and silent within. But Great-
heart went up to the gate and knocked loudly. 'The. pilgrims will go in,’
said Greatheart, 'but I must return at once to my master.’

"Then the little boy took him by the hand and said, 'Oh, sir, won't you

go on with us, and help us? We are so weak, and the way is so rough
and dangerous.’

HI

I must obey my Master,’ answered Greatheart. 'Tonight I must return
to him. But if he shall afterward bid me be your guide, I will gladly come
and wait on you. And so I bid you adieu.’

"And with that he turned and went back through the darkness.”

 

Joseph Lee

Resolution Adopted by the Board of Directors
of the National Recreation Association

FROM June 7, 1910 until July 28, 1937, the day of his death, for a period of more than

twentY-Seven years, loseph Lee served as President and leader in the National Recrea—
tion Association.

Previously, on April 12, 1906, when the Association was formed—as the Playground
Association of America—Joseph Lee had been elected Third Vice President. Later, on May
14, 1909, he was elected First Vice President and served in that capacity until he was elected
President.

Though Ioseph Lee had in 1910 been active in the play movement for a score of years

and was then known to many as the "father of the playground movement,” he was reluctant
to accept the presidency for he never desired position for himself.

Joseph Lee, once he had accepted the position, dedicated himself and all his great gifts
as leader, thinker, philosopher, educator, scholar, man of vision, statesman, speaker, writer,
practical man of affairs, to the movement. He chose the Association as his major medium
through which to make his contribution to his times. His book "Play in Education" was used
extensively throughout the world and was an outstanding contribution to the movement. He
gave freely of his time in studying major problems in recreation. He was equally ready to
give detailed attention to problems of personnel and administration in the national movement.
He gave generously of his own means and worked steadily in raising money from his friends
for the Association.

The Board members had extra satisfaction in.their meetings because they were associ—
ated with him in his inspired leadership. The staff members did better work because they
felt he understood the difficulties they faced and the significance of their achievements. Local
recreation leaders thought of the whole movement on a higher plane because they knew
that quietly and without seeking anything for himself Ioseph Lee was devoting his ability
to the problems of the movement.

The members of the Board of Directors are profoundly grateful that for so many years
they were privileged to follow such a leader. Though the national recreation movement is
clearly larger than any one man or any Q‘I‘OUp of men yet in part the National Recreation
Association is a living monument to the life and work of Joseph Lee.

 

515

The Play Life of Joseph Lee ,3

OSEPH LEE wrote of the days when he was
I thirteen and a member of a group known as
the "Crowd." First there were a half dozen
boys who always played together. Later girls
were added. The great time was “from the mid-
dle seventies until 1883” when Joseph Lee grad-
uated from Harvard.

Before college days began the "Crowd"
played together nearly every afternoon. "We
danced with each other at dancing school and
had dances of our own every Saturday even-
ing during the winter, at which times there were
apples and cakes for supper.”

"Our great game was prisoner's base."
These games continued until Joseph Lee and
two others of the group were in law school.

"Even more exciting and more romantic, with
its wiles and stratagems, its mysteries and far
ranging forays, was Robbers and Policemen.”
"Every Saturday afternoon there was a picnic
party at which we played mostly Robbers and
Policemen and key to characters. Many years
later Joseph Lee remembered and. wrote of
the wood thrush singing, heard on the way
home. "Best of all were the teanics to the Island
with the pale full moon rising over the ocean
and the row home, singing with all the boats
together. There were pic-
nics also on the Com-

In winter, the group
went skating or coasting
every afternoon, when
possible. Whenever there
was no chance for out-
door games, the group
played Up Jenkins
and Clumps or the
Geography Game,
with equal vim and sat—
isfaction. In spring and
fall, there was New
High Spy sometimes at
the barn. At all seasons
when in Brookline there
was a Sunday walk to

516

"I was always rather a leader in games
mon. though not a good player. I did most of base-
the legislating in hi-spy and prisoner's
base and other juvenile sports and was
captain of two football teams, both of them
marvelously unsuccessful.

"In college I played on the freshmen
eleven, rowed on the sophomore crew, won
a middleweight championship in boxing in
my junior year and lost it in my senior year.

"I have been fond of camping, paddling,
riding, skating on the river, in fact, of
about everything young men and boys do,
only I have not lost my fondness. I still
keep up my skating and canoeing acquain—
tance with the rivers. I suppose dancing
has been my steadiest passion in the ath-
letic line.”—Joseph Lee in Recreation.

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 

the Great Rock in the woods, with tea afterwar
and with chocolate and the famous cider cak

Joseph Lee wrote years afterward with ve
clear memory of the rows in the moonlight, th
singing, the coasting, even mentioning the da
passage through the pines and shooting 0
at the other side across the little pond. Mr. L
particularly remembered the moonlight exp
ditions through the woods to skate.

Joseph Lee thought that anyone who had n
hung May baskets had missed something 0
of life. "On May Day night we boys used t
hang bunches of flowers with poems on th
doors of the different girls, and the girls use
to chase us when we rang the bell.”

He also recalled the horizontal ladder in th ,
old chicken house where members of the grou l 
used to "skip I don't know how many rungs. "

While at Harvard Joseph Lee played on hi
freshman football team, rowed on the soph I
more crew, held the middleweight boxin .'
championship for one year. I

Joseph Lee himself listed the play facilities i
"enjoyed by the Cabot crowd 1870-1890” as
follows: "

One ocean, fitted with islands, fish, boats, _
reefs, eel grass and other hazards. Several
beaches, one of them
adapted to prisoner's

A c o w pasture and
other play fields.

Winter and summer
woods, climbing trees.

A marsh with a brook
containing trout, naviga-
ble at high tide, good for
jumping with or without
a leaping pole and excel-
lent for making dams.

Ponds to skate on, also
a flooded marsh running
far in among the trees.

_The stars, moon and

sunsets appurtenant to "
these. K

 

THE PLAY LIFE OF JOSEPH LEE 517

Coasts, both cross country and in streets
duly furnished with pungs, sleighs and a con-
siderable number of funerals to turn out for.

One theatre.

Pianos and violins.

Several barns with horses, cows, pigs and
the smells appropriate thereto.

I Add uncles who acted, sketched, read

' Shakespeare and other peOple aloud, sang
and did other interesting stunts.

And one remarkable and sporting grand-

mother.

Joseph Lee writes of the play leadership he
himself enjoyed:

"My brother, George Lee, did more for me
than any one else, more than I have ever
known any one else to do for another. He
practically undertook my education, giving
me hundreds of boxing lessons and almost
as many in rowing, and doing all he could
to make a man of me-——a man's man, not a
ladies' man. 'Running after girls,’ he said,
'won't get you anywhere.’ He was the great-
est teacher I have ever known. Those events,
whether in rowing or boxing, for which he
trained me I won,- those in which I trained
myself I lost. He could, as few teachers can,
give you intelligible instruction what to do.
More important, he could see what was going
on inside of you and how your full resources
could be mobilized. And his aim was not the
sport but character. George was my hero and
that of many of us smaller boys, and as a
modern Hercules his exploits justified our
worship."

Joseph Lee always thought of conversation
as a very important form of recreation. It was
so easy for him to talk about "Alice in Wonder-
land,” about Jane Austen and about all of the
books that were dear to him. He wrote once of
a three hour conversation in which he dimly
awakened for the first time "to her powers of
keen appreciation and of sustaining her part in
that process of mutual discovery and enhance-
ment which is the essence of conversation.” He
mentioned the great quality in any listener, the
Speaking countenance "where sympathy runs
before the thought and the face reflects more
than you have said."

So much of Joseph Lee's power in conversa-
tion came from his reading, which he had so
thoroughly digested that it had become a part
of himself and was almost forgotten. On one

occasion Joseph Lee talked back and forth with
a friend for several hours on readings from
Dante, and never had he seemed more com-
pletely to lose himself.

Reading out loud had a very important place
in the Lee household. Joseph Lee mentioned
the delights of having a cold, not too severe,
for the opportunity it gave to be read to out loud
from Trollope and Walter Scott. He writes that
from the time of his marriage "we read over our
two favorite series from TrOIIOpe and Miss
Austen's novels as often as we thought decent.”
"Mrs. Lee read aloud almost every evening of
our married life to me and to the children.”
Often Joseph Lee spoke of the delight which he
had in remembering his father's reading out
loud the plays of Shakespeare.

The whole Lee family at one period used to
bicycle together over the week-ends at Cohas-
set. No one could walk with Joseph Lee back
and forth on the beach of Cohasset and not be
conscious of the extent to which the beauty of
the beach and of the rocks and the ocean had
entered into his very life, though he never ut-
tered a word about it. Rowing, paddling in
canoes have an important part in the Cohasset
picture. Joseph Lee himself sailed as one of the
crew of his brother, George Lee, but he himself
never quite had the real thrill of sailing in full
charge himself.

No one could fully understand Joseph Lee
without knowing the Putnam Camp near Keene
Valley in the Adirondacks. One could sense
the depth of his feeling for the long walks, the
"swishing of the swash,” the singing around the
camp fire.

Joseph Lee and his wife, Margaret Cabot Lee,
were much influenced in their own family rec-
reation life by their common knowledge of
Froebel and their delight in him. Both had a
keen intellectual grasp of Froebel's teaching
and brought to it a depth of understanding.

One could not help feeling the richness of the
play life which Joseph Lee and Mrs. Lee Opened
up to their children. Joseph Lee, Jr., was man-
aging a canoe and rowing a skiff by himself
at the age of five, and sailing a dory himself
alone at the age of seven, although he was not
allowed by himself out of his depth until he
learned how to swim. The children were en-
couraged to climb trees and ladders, to perform
innumerable stunts in spite of possible risks.
The children too had bicycles as soon as they

518 THE PLAY LIFE OF JOSEPH LEE

could ride and managed their own expeditions
from the time they were eleven years old. The
house in Boston had a piazza 36' x 12' on the
south side, opening with a French window on
a level out of a little room next to the parlor,
equipped with a sand box and an awning. In
winter snow was piled on the sand box and a
coast for a slide made, the coasting sometimes
ending inside the little room. Mr. and Mrs. Lee
saw to it that their children had the physical
and social surroundings belonging to the full
life of childhood without "waiting until they in-
vented all these things themselves." Mrs. Lee
sang and read to the .children for hours every
day and played the mother games and showed
them others and "opened out to them in every
way their whole inheritance from all the gen-
erations of happy childhood and from the child
lore of the race."

Often the whole family walked together in
the evening. Among the books which were read
out loud to the children were Peter Rabbit and
some of his successors, Kingsley's Heroes, Haw-
thorne's Wonder Book, Heidi, Pilgrim's Prog-
ress, Scott, Robin Hood, King Arthur. There
were dramatizations in the parlor in the Boston
home and out of doors at Cohasset in summer.

Each child was exposed to music to see if it
would take. There was strong desire that the
children should grow up to love the country
and country life.

Joseph Lee himself had great pleasure in ob-
serving and noting little things. As he rode
along on the train he would watch just what all
the children were doing in their play. He liked
after Board meetings and committee meetings
in New York City to walk to the train and would
constantly be stopping to observe the play of
the children in the city streets. One could not
soon forget the depth of his satisfaction in ob-
serving what was going on about him. Many
times individuals thought that he was not ob—

  
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
  

serving at all what was going on, when ever
detail had been carefully noted and could o
accurately described later and with very gr
satisfaction by .him. He could draw at will a
his memory of little things enjoyed in the pa

Dr. Charles W. Eliot once referred to the Iri
blood in Joseph Lee which made him alwa
interesting in anything which he might say.
seemed just impossible for Joseph Lee to ut
a dull sentence. Even his silences as he walk
with one were somehow interesting.

I

For many years Joseph Lee never missed
Recreation Congress. At these Congresses, .
the delegates danced and played together, :
entered whole-heartedly into the fun and
young man or young woman of 21 had ,a bet
time than he. At one Recreation Congress wh
Mr. Lee was about 50 years of age, many of t
delegates themselves tried the physical ef
ciency tests and Joseph Lee was one of th
number. He "chinned" himself six times, ma
a standing broad jump of six feet six inch
and ran a sixty yard dash in eight secon
thus qualifying for the second physical ef-
ciency badge.

Throughout life music was most important I
Mr.-Lee. He would tell of the long hours I
practicing on the piano two or three hours at
time. Bad music caused him acute distress.

Joseph Lee and his friends found great sati
faction in his drawings, in his charcoal sketc
es and water colors. He was so intense in h
writing that perhaps one could not speak I
writing as a form of recreation in the usuall
accepted sense of the word "recreation" but
was certainly an important part of the expre
sion of Mr. Lee's life, of his own abundant li
ing. Perhaps one reason why Joseph Lee care
so deeply for the "enduring satisfactions of lit
for all men, women and children" is becaus
he himself lived so richly and so deeply.

W

. 1 ‘

“Joseph Lee Loved to Play"

OSEPH LEE's contribution to
our age has been discussed
I from many angles, and yet
r ere is one aspect of his character that has, it
ms to me, not yet been touched: the fact
at along with having established Playgrounds
r the Childhood of America, becoming a dis-
guished and important member of society,
N'ret he remained a person who, in his middle
1 age and even in his later years, himself still

foved to play.

 
 
   
  
 

Those of us who knew him as an older rela-
tive, or as the father of our friends, had a very
special feeling about Joseph Lee. We knew he
was a distinguished citizen,—the aura of great-
ness always hung about him,—but to us his
public achievement did not matter. What mat—
tered was that here was a Grown-Up who nev-
ertheless loved to come out with us and 'do
things,’ and who 'did things' with a vim and an
enthusiasm that carried us all along. To us he
was an Opener of Gates.

     
   
 

J
I
I
5
' I can see him in a small clearing in the
, Adirondack forest, —‘ a smooth, green place
hedged in with arbor vitae, surrounded by a
group of children—his own and others, danc-
' ing “The Farmer in the Dell” or "Roman Sol-
= diers,” coats off and pigtails flying: When oth-
!1 ers would have tired, it was his enthusiasm that
i kept on thinking of one tune after another, till
I the feet of even the shy ones were happily
I thumping the soft, cow-munched turf.
I
P
I
I

Or I see him stretched full length in the spring
sunshine on the sand, or on his piazza floor at
Cohasset, ready to talk philosophy with any
comer,—and this in an age before the sun had

become the fashion, and when many a mem-
ber of his generation disliked picnics because

they necessitated sitting on the ground.

i

Or I see him, in the early winter, skating joy-
ously on the first black ice on Hammond's
Pond, and later in the winter on the River. Some
bright, clear February morn— ‘
ing one would be called up
by one of his children, told

that “Pa” had decided to
go river-skating, and would

By MARY LEE
Westport, New York

This letter was written to the Boston

Evening Transcript by Mary Lee,
a cousin of Joseph Lee. It is reprinted

by courtesy of the Transcript.

you come, and if you had some-
thing to do, would you please give
it up and come anyway, because
river-skating was important and you couldn't
do it every day in the year,—-and you gave it
up and you came. You skated ecstatically after
the tall, lank figure, clad like as not in a long,
black city overcoat and derby, but with a stout
rope wound round his waist in case of danger,
—]oseph Lee believed in teaching children to do
dangerous things and do them wisely,—and
you scrambled up and stocking-footed across
the roads and railroads to avoid the deep,
black, open holes under the bridges.

I see him arrive late in the afternoon at a
winter house-party in New Hampshire, and
right after supper disappear out the door" into
the darkness, to be discovered an hour later by
his lazy youngers ardently coasting, all by
himself in the dim moonlight, ste'ering his sled
after the manner of his boyhood by jerking the
runners and plowing the toes of his best Boston
boots into the icy roadway. I can hear him tell-
ing, with the enthusiasm of a boy ten,—he was
then over sixty,-—how he had missed the water—
box at the corner by just one inch the last
time . . .

And in the springtime, there was canoeing.
No idle drifting down stream for him: he always
insisted on paddling upstream from the canoe-
house at South Natick toward that swift water
under the dam near where the Indians were
buried, not to carry mildly across the little field
and over the road into the mill dam, but to get
her under the arches of the bridge and up
through the frothy rapids to the little‘ island un—
der the darn itself. It always meant pulling off
shoes, rolling up trousers, climbing overboard,
and hauling her up by main force, and we
watched while he waded, with utter forgetful-
ness, among the broken bottles of modern civil-
ization. And when we went on a moonlight
night, he wanted to stay late. And when we
lost the key of our Ford into
the river, he was not an-
noyed.

To us who drove him
about the country in Model

519

520 "IOSEPH LEE LOVED TO PLAY” '

T. Fords, it seemed he knew the whole of Mas-
sachusetts in terms of trout brooks. "That," he
would shout, almost precipitating himself over
the Ford's side, "must be the brook where
Emery Codman and I,—" and then would come
a yarn of trout fishing, in a day when trout,
apparently, could be caught in almost any
stream from Brookline to the Berkshires. To us
who drove him, those forgotten brooks, now
rapidly disappearing into drain pipes, those
blossoming swamps now filled with dead auto-
mobiles and tin cans, took on the poetry of the
wilderness that still lingered about them in his
own youth.

For Ioseph Lee was an artist of great enthu-
siasm and no little skill. He could paint pic-
tures in words, and he was always trying to
paint pictures with real paints, and never quite
satisfied with his results. I can see him with
his back against some rounded Adirondack
boulder, his khaki hat (he has been known to
start for Washington to preside over a Play-
ground Association Meeting in that same hat)
well down over his brow, palette in hand, keen
eyes squinting eagerly through his glasses at
the shadows, whose colors he could not quite
get. Or I can hear him asking that lunch be put

Skating with Joseph Lee

By FRANCIS G. CURTIS, Boston, Massachusetts

OWN rivers—always with the wind behind us. An uncanny sense about the safe ice.
And the unsafe—often on then edge of a rushing stream, black and deep. Then a
pause at noon in a sheltered cove, a "hen-bank" in the sun and out of the wind—
starting a fire to cook our steak and talk on all subjects for a good resting spell and then
another stretch of river—often interrupted by a cross country walk. We strike another river,
and so down to the neighborhood of a train back home. For instance we have often taken a
train to Concord, got on the Sudbury River as far as Wayland, then walked across country
to the Cochituate Lakes, several of them. Then a walk or trolley to South Natick—and then
down the Charles to Dedham or Newton Upper Falls———a long but heavenly day.
The train home couldn't be too hot or stuffy for him he would say. Whoever else would
get wet feet or fall on their face in a crack, it was never Ioe ———he flew over all cracks and
hurdles—at tremendous speed. Sometimes with his coat held out as a sail—marvelous days

of recreation.

 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
  

off for an hour because he was just going on
sketching and he was sure he could not get th
color of that grey stump in just one hour, an
yet he could not bear to miss lunching wit
the crowd.

He loved a crowd and the give and take
minds in conversation. I can see him of an ev
ning in a great armchair before a log fire, wi
young people perching on the Chair's arms,
on the woodbox, or on the hearth below hi
talking eagerly, or sometimes listening to o
ers' talk, of 'Shoes and Ships and Sealing W
and Cabbages and Kings.’

Once in a while, as by a miracle, there com
an adult whose spirit bridges the inevitab
chasm between the generations, a person
whom, even when one is young, one can ta
as an equal and who, even though they h
attained the wisdom of years, treat the youn
as though their opinions were worth while.
was this faculty that Joseph Lee had and th
kept him young while others of his generatio
——and of ours,—grew old. To those of us w
knew him as we did the great thing was n
that he established Playgrounds but that, h
ing established Playgrounds, he neverthele
still loved to play.

Fishing with I. L.

OR many years I have
held two days sacred to
old playmates. Holidays

1 and holydays were these, for they have been

y spent with the two finest characters I have

, known. To spend even two of the 365 days of
each year with human beings whose quite dif-
ferent characters you sincerely believe are
well-nigh divine, does much to dispel the false
values of human nature received from the head-
lines or from neighborhood gossip. For 30 years
the opening day of the fishing season has been
_ sacred to I. L. and for 40 years that of the hunt-
ing season to W. P. B. The lives of these men
have been examples so far beyond my reach
that I have felt no need of angels or divinities
‘ to guide me; nor do I wish to associate for
eternity with beings more perfect. No one could
crave a better world than this would be if peo-
pled by such creatures.

To tell the truth, I. L. was no great fisherman,
but he was a Splendid companion on fishing
trips. He was not the person to choose for a
fishing trip "to - come -home- and -tell -the- office-
about;” he was no "go getter." Size and quality
meant little to him unless relative to the geo-
graphic surroundings. A half-pound trout in a
public brook within 15 miles of Boston was
more of a prize than a three pounder in Maine.
A bass from Jamaica Pond (within the Boston
City limits) big enough to present to Commis-
sioner Long, was more desirable than a salmon
from some rich friend's preserve. He liked to
fish in public streams or ponds, and to compete
with those boys who had energy enough to
take the same trouble. Had he so chosen, he
might have belonged to the most exclusive fish—
ing clubs, but he believed in holding most of
our ponds and streams as public playgrounds,
and was ready to work for his share of the fish.
. He really relished one occasion, when, after he
had whipped a pool for some time with a vari-
ety of flies, a boy with a pole appeared on the
Opposite bank. Joe was rather indignant at first
because, breaking all precedent, the boy stood
Up in plain sight of every fish in the pool, spoil-
ing all chances of a trout rising to a fly. How-

By E. A. CODMAN, M. D.

Boston, Massachusetts

ever, I. L. accepted the inevi—
table, and conversed with the
interIOper across the twenty
feet of water, while the boy's "barn yard
hackle” lay on the bottom. Presently, in spite
of the conversation, the boy pulled in his line
with a ten inch trout attached. It was like Ioe
to console himself by saying that at any rate
the trout's appetite had been aroused by his
own flies, even if it preferred the boy's worm.
The fact that this typical example of the classic
tale occurred in a public brook less than fifteen
miles from the state house, and within walking
distance from the trolley, was what impressed
him. Of course, he envied the boy, but enjoyed
the experience; no doubt they both cherished
the memory of it for the rest of their lives. How-
ever, I. L. had no thought of buying the exclu—
sive rights on the brook to prevent further in-
trusion.

I had fished with him for some time before
I could account for a peculiar sound which
came from his direction now and then. A single
sound, like the quack of a duck, if a duck ever
did confine itself to one quack. As we usually
fished a brook by an alternating method, each
passing the other by circling through the woods
or fields, when one reached the point where the
other had started, we were generally near, but
not in sight of one another. Occasionally came
the quack from his direction, the cause of which
I finally saw and heard at the same time. When
rebaiting, he would put the wriggling worm in
the palm of one hand, and give it a sharp blow
with his other palm, making a single quack
with which the worm had little, if anything, to
do, except to be effectually stunned, stop wrig-
gling, and be easily impaled on the hook. Ioe's
idea in stunning it was not for his own conven-
ience when impaling it, but wholly on the
worm's account. Surely, this shows his origi-
nality as well as his sympathy for the human,
animal or helminthic under dog. I doubt if any
other fisherman ever used this method, for most
of us want the worm to squirm.

Stopping the wriggling did not seem to abate
the desire of fish to take his bait, nevertheless,

521

522 FISHING WITH I. L.

for it was he who usually caught the big ones.
There is something individual in the way each
fisherman wiggles or does not wiggle his bait,
just as we each have a different handwriting.
Eggs are different when scrambled by different
people. Some people have "hands" with horses
and some do not. Ioe could offer a worm to a
trout and make him like it. Whether he kept
the bait still or moved it just enough, we shall
never know, but the big trout (I mean the rela-
tively big trout in the little brooks) "fell for his
line.” Perhaps he learned from the small boy,
or perhaps from his experience in raising funds
for good causes, that some fish, like some hu-
mans, do not. take chances without viewing the
temptation from all angles before indulging,
particularly those that, in their past, have been
wounded by easy baits, and in consequence
have avoided others long enough to become
rich in size and flavor, or in wealth. Few men
have done as well as he in landing large fish
for good causes. Of our day's catch, my share
was usually the largest in number, but the
"good ones” were usually his. Even my excess
in numbers was not evidence of superior skill,
but of more assiduity, for I seldom stopped fish-
ing, while I. L. would do so very frequently,
and often for most of the day. A sketch book
would appear from his pocket, and rod and
reel be set aside; or he would stretch out
among the ferns and "loaf," as he always
called it. All his intimate friends will recognize
his use of this term. He accomplished more
while "loafing" than most men do by all their
work. In those hours of "loafing" he dreamt,
not only his great dreams, but the plans of how
to make them concrete. It took many hours of
this day dreaming to set in motion, even after
conceiving them, a civic league, a city play—
ground, or an improved immigration law. Not-
withstanding the long list of such ideas of his
that became the spirits of lasting organizations,
there must have been many more which were in
his brain and yet never came to fruition. It is re—
markable that from the many, he had the pa-
tience to stay with certain practical ones until
they became realities, instead of being side—
tracked by fascinating new ones. Often I won-
dered how this gentle fisherman, lying among
the ferns, could have the driving power he pos-
sessed over other men and women. Eventually
I concluded that he was the most charming

" the matter of fishing he leaned heavily on m

  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
     
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

“leaner” ever created. Executive ability is It
always an example of energy; in his case
was the reverse. He had an uncanny power
selecting people who would like to do the thin
he wanted done, and then he would lean
them in the most helpless way. They won
love to do whatever it was, for his sake, b
he had divined beforehand that they would

the things because they loved to do them.

I would remind him of the date when the I
would be off: go to City Hall and get his fishi
license; look him up a few days before the da
to make sure he could find his fishing tackl
appear for him in my car on the appointed d
make sure he put in the car rod, reel, fli
hooks, rubber coat, boots, etc.,- plan the Inn
and, in fact, act as a professional guide. In tu
he would pretend that I knew all about fis
and ask my advice about each part of h
tackle: what flies to use on such a day,
though he really knew just as much as I di
and would probably return with the bigge
trout. All this because he knew that one of m
greatest pleasures was to take him fishing, an :
that I would leave no stone unturned to hav
my way. He never would have selected me t
help him raise moneywor to influence a pol
tician who could do something for the sch
committee, but he managed to find other peopl
whose tastes made them serve'him willingly?
almost lovingly, in even these ways. People
who were overburdened with wealth knew that
his philanthropic schemes would be practical,
sound and well planned, and gladly did their
part, enjoying the pleasure it gave him. As with
a big trout, he gave them time to consider the
bait from all angles, but I don't believe they
ever regretted being popped into his basket.

 

Though an ’ habitual worm fisherman, after
reading Sir Edward Grey's fascinating book on
dry-fly fishing, I. L. was so intrigued that he had
to change all his fishing habits, and learn the
new art. Day after day he would try his flies,
while I saved our reputation at home with a
few trout caught, meanwhile, with worms. His
patience was remarkable and he would stay at i
one pool, if he knew there were trout there,'
and try one fly after another. Though he never I
succeeded in mastering the new art, he did, at
length, arrive at a point where he could occa-"
sionally catch a fish and his joy over these was

i.

3,,

 

' 'the conditions for fly casting are perfect.

FISHING WITH I. L. 523

a pleasure to witness. He usually took. the open
parts of the brook while I dangled my worms
in the bushy parts. One day in particular
.stands out in my memory. There is a certain
brook some twenty miles from Boston, which is
an ideal trout stream, where there is a stretch
'of a hundred yards ending at a bridge, in which
The
water is from knee to hip in depth, it is from
five to ten feet ‘wide: the banks are masses of
floating brook lime or water forget—me—nots,
which, in late June, are a beautiful blue. More-
over, there are always trout there, although
highly educated ones, for the place is well
known and daily fished by some, and often by
many, anglers. It is just the place for the dry-

fly artist.

I left I. L. at this stretch of water and went
upstream in the bushy part above, telling him
that I would meet him at the bridge below. At
the end of the afternoon I stopped my car at
the bridge, and saw I. L. approaching in mid-
stream, between the banks of forget-me—nots,
with only a few inches of rubber boot above the
water line. He was radiant. He had taken three
“good ones" on his dry flies. "Why!" said he,
"it is just what fishing must be like in the Ely—
sian Fields.” So, that part of the stream has had
its name for us ever since. I wish the whole
stream could be preserved forever as a public
playground for anglers, before it becomes the
prey of civilization. The natural conditions of
the terrain through which it flows, from its head
in a number of clear springs, through a Sphag-
num bog, now unused, would make this plan
an entirely practical and inexpensive one. At
present, these natural conditions are unSpoiled,
and still at the service of the public. It would
be a fitting tribute to I. L. to make a public plaY~
ground of this natural trout stream. Perhaps
some of those who are obliged to give away,
and who enjoyed being dependent on his ad-
vice as to when and where to give, may. now
take the same enjoyment in pleasing them-
selves by doing something which they feel may
please him. I wish my memory of him, as he
waded happily there in the glory of the forget-
me-nots, could be fixed as a statue in a perma~
nent lune.

As a rule, our fishing was a matter of a daY
at a time, but on several occasions I inveigled
him into long trips. In 1922, I took a vagabond

f

trailer trip to Florida, and I. L. joined me at
St. Augustine. From there we went across
country, fishing in out—of—the-way lakes and
streams, carrying a portable boat, and camping
along the way, like tramps. He had always en-
joyed camping and for years, with his old
friends, George Morison, Richards Bradley,
Arthur Lyman and Harry Cabot, had made an
annual canoe trip down the Connecticut River.
I have no doubt that they, too, made all the
preparations, and did so gladly.

In Florida we sometimes slept in the trailer
and sometimes on the ground. Occasionally,
we would fish during the day, eat our supper
and then move on until it was dark, and per-
haps, if the Spirit moved us and the night was
fine, after dark, until a suitable camping place
appeared. We enjoyed our little adventures,
and seldom, as at home, caught many fish. One
of our most useful utensils was a long-handled
spade such as is used for digging holes. This
implement was required, because, as we avoid-
ed highways, we were continually getting stuck
in either sand or mud and had to dig out. The
car was a l909 Franklin, at that time twelve
years old; an open one with a folding top. The
little red thing drew a large trailer with a. black
top the shape of a butcher's wagon. The out-of—
date machine, with the black object following
it, presented a very odd appearance and at-
tracted much attention when we passed through
towns, which was one of our good reasons for
seeking the by—ways. Sometimes there were no
real roads at all, merely wagon tracks in the
sand. As the whole contraption was of no
value, we daily eXpected to leave it as junk
by the wayside, and therefore, boldly went
ahead in any kind of tracks and did not worry.
One day, in the sandy interior, we remembered
as "the day of flood, fire, and disgrace." We
traveled through scrub palmetto, and along
confused wagon tracks, and occasionally
across streams without bridges, wondering
whether the water would get in our carburetor,
as it sometimes in fact, did. Mishaps did not
worry I. L. He seemed to enjoy them like a
boy, although he was then approaching sixty.
He appeared to have no fear of men, beasts,
or snakes in the wild places.

On that day, we had hardly started when
we came to a gully through which ran a rather
deep stream. As wagon tracks showed that the

524 FISHING WITH I. L.

ford was passable, we decided to try it, though
we dreaded immersion of the carburetor and
doubted our engine's ability to climb the oppo-
site bank. We charged down, splashed through
the stream and barely, but triumphantly, made
the grade and sped on with uncanny power for
several hundred yards before we realized that
our unusual speed was due to the fact that the
trailer was still in midstream. Not long after we
had rescued it, we found ourselves almost sur-
rounded by a sort of prairie fire in the scrub
palmetto, and found we could not retreat. By
pursuing a zig-zag course through burned and
smouldering places, occasionally stopping to
pick our way on foot and using our faithful
shovel to beat out the flames, we slowly ad-
vanced. Once as the shovel was about to de-
scend on a flaming bush, I saw, under the bush,
a coiled rattlesnake and checked the descent
of my implement and instead picked the snake
up on the shovel and carried it over to show to
I. L. To my astonishment it made no effort to
escape, but remained coiled on the shovel with
its head raised as if about to strike, but without
moving in any way. It was like a stuffed snake
in a museum. There was no time for autopsy or
biologic study of the specimen, but we always
regretted that our shovel was so badly needed
as an extinguisher that we had to hurriedly
throw the snake away. I don't know now wheth-
er it was alive and cataleptic, dead and in rigor
mortis, or had been stuffed and thrown away
where it could interest live snakes. It remained
coiled with head erect even when tossed on the
ground! Our best theory was that it had been
striking at the flames when it was overwhelmed
by the heat, and had stiffened in that attitude.
I know it was somewhat charred. Perhaps
someone who reads this article may be able to
tell me whether this is the usual condition of
rattlesnakes which meet death in burning
prairies.

We were pretty well tired out when we at
last beat our way through the burning area and
what with being stuck again and again in the
sand, it was well after dark when we came to
a human habitation, a small town, which had
gone to bed. We stopped on the outskirts and,
quite unrecognizable from soot and sand, at
once rolled up in our blankets beside the trailer,
only to wake in the early morning and find that
we had slept in the gutter beside the road, near

   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 

the railroad station of a little village. So I. L
did once sleep in the gutter and enjoy it. I thin
that this was as near disgrace as he ever came
unless is was on an occasion when a gam
warden found him fishing without a license 0
Jamaica Pond. He seemed quite alarmed, a
though he had a license at home. At lengt
the game warden took our words for this whe
backed by Mr. whe presides at the whar
and explained who the culprit was, I. L.'s fir
reaction was probably a flash of thought whic
suggested publicity and the effect this woul
have on each of the many organizations i
which he was an important officer. Humo

soon replaced alarm.

 

I doubt if two fishermen ever caught so fe
fish in proportion to days spent in fishing. Muc
of our time was consumed in talking abou
what we were going to do and other things. T
hear I. L. discuss something was always enter
taining. The discussion-might start on som
trivial matter such as the habit of stunnin
angle worms before using them and whethe
they suffered more than the fish which wer
caught. It would then drift in some more ab
stract direction as on habit formation, the stat
of unconsciousness, or as to whether a bab
suffered when it was crying with all its might.
Whatever the subject, the talk usually soone ' I
or later led to his expounding Plato's views on .-
something else. At some time in his life, he mus
have deeply studied philosophy and eventuall
arrived at the state of equanimity in which he
lived. As his surgeon I have seen him bear
serenely, not only great physical pain, but real .
grief——not mere sorrow. I never saw him lose”
his temper, unless one could consider its equiv—
alent the manifestation of a deep indignation
shown at instances of cruelty, stupidity, selfish-
ness or neglect. As a rule he took human nature I'
as he found it, and even managed to derive
amusement from the mental foibles of others.
On our Florida trip we engaged a cabin motor
boat in which to fish on the west coast. The
skipper, who was a carpenter and not a real
sailor, proved very uncongenial to I. L. 'who
was himself a much better sailor. The man was '
surly, rude and a very poor cook. Ioe always
alluded to him as "the misanthrope," and kept
us entertained by his carefully whispered com-n ‘
ments on what was done or expected to be.
done by this individual, with whom we were

I

r"

it

i

l

obliged to live for our trip of ten days. A condi-
tion which might have been almost unendur—
able was turned into a pleasant and memor-
able one; he saw that it was hopeless to scold
such a person, and he would hurt no one's feel—
ings, at any time.

In discussing the cause of "the misan-

- thrope's” chronic grouch, it seemed to my med-

1

l

l

'1

ical mind that it probably had an organic

origin in duodenal ulcer, but I. L. held that it

was almost certainly due to his lack of oppor-
tunity to play during his childhood and, there-
fore, the poor man should be excused. The
community was to blame, not the individual.
It must be admitted that, though superficially
this theory seemed only one of his frequent con-
versational whimsies, it really was broader and
deeper than the medical one. In fact, his book
on “Play” should have its place in our Medical
Schools. He has shown the importance of rec-
reation in normal development, and has studied
and analyzed play as Darwin did species. I do
not feel presumptuous in asking the thoughtful
reader to compare "Play in Education” with
"The Origin of Species," for he will be more
entertained, and nearly as much informed, by
the former.

It was often hard to tell whether Ioe's whim-
sical sayings and doings were serious or not,-
for instance, he liked to be logical, and to prac-
tice in small matters what he preached. He had
great respect for the law of conservation of
energy and had reasoned it out that most peo-
ple lose energy in heat, instead of conserving
it to be used in pleasurable mental or physical
effort. Logically, this led him to a ,habit of fre-
quently adding or subtracting his various gar—

. ments according to the temperature,- not that he

could not endure cold when necessary for his
pleasure, (he loved skating, and kept at it even
in his sixties), but purely because he held it
unreasonable to waste heat. As he preferred
intellectual pleasures, he seldom took exercise
for its own sake, and never over exercised.
Consequently, he never became robust and
muscular, but remained slim and limber even

' after he was severity, and could glide through

the woods or a swamp like a snake, or squat,
crumbled up like an Indian, beside a pool to
fish. His patience often reminded me of that of
a heron waiting for his prey to swim within
reach. Whether or not as a result of his theory,

FISHING WITH I. L.

525

he seemed always to have a reserve of energy
and after a lethargic day would become an
alert and entertaining presiding officer for some
important gathering.

My wife had joined us in Tampa, and we
gave up our vagabond life with the trailer and
averaged up our expenses by living at the good
hotels and enjoying Florida as spendthrifts. On
the east coast we fished along the reefs in the
motor craft of a very different skipper, at whose
skill we marvelled, while he managed his boat
in the surf, which lashed over the reefs where
many kinds of fish really did bite with avidity.
This was a new experience to us and we were
almost ashamed to bring home each day a
load of fish which we could not eat. It was here
I. L. caught the largest fish of his life, though
not a notable one for a Florida fisherman. We
were trolling over the reefs in a rather nasty
surf, which tested the skill of our boatman,
when a forty pound amberjack took I. L.'s bait.
The boat rolled so much that it was almost im-
possible to stand and play a fish, and, if one
held the rail the fish could not be reeled 'in. Ioe
fought until he was exhausted but could not get
the creature near enough to the boat to be
gaffed, in spite of my clinging to the fail with
one arm and helping him keep his feet with
the other. Thoroughly worn out, he at length
turned the rod over to the boatman whose short
sea legs could maintain a balance. Even he
could barely accomplish the feat, while keeping
an eye on his boat as it pounded about
amongst the reefs, with a free tiller. My iob was
to gaff the fish when it ranged alongside. This
was not easy, but I succeeded in sinking the
gaff in the fish's side, although, since my body
was more than half over thegunwale, I COuld
not possibly pull him aboard, even though Ioe
had a firm hold on the seat of my pants. The sit-
uation was made worse by a fit of girlish gig-
gling on the part of all three of us, as well as by
the real danger from the reefs, which occasion-

~ ally showed their ugly barnacled crests almost

under the boat. In this attitude we‘lremained un-
til the boatman could again leave‘ithe tiller long
enough to drag both of us with the flopping

monster into the cockpit. On reaching home we
hung the amberjack as a trophy on the hotel

wharf.
As we were finishing dinner that night one

of the waiters came to I. L. saying that there
(Continued on page 582)

 

original genius would
be to miss an im-
mensely important point
about him. Nobody could know him, to be sure,
. without knowing that he was original; nobody
‘ could read what he wrote without recognizing
that he observed and thought and expressed
himself first-hand and in his own way. There
I was nothing second-hand about him, nothing
1 that was a mere reflection of other people's
ideas. He was as little stereotyped as anybody
could be. He believed in originality, too, and
l wanted to cultivate it and make room for it.
I He once said to me——as I suppose he often said
. to others—that he believed education could get
more out of one wild-eyed rebel than it could
from a regiment of conformists. Yet he believed
in system, too, and in organized effort, and in
the need of regular and persistent work and of
cooperation, leadership and discipline. He had
far too philosophic a mind, his grasp of fact
was far too comprehensive and clear, to allow
him to rest content with his own flashes of in-
sight or those of others. He had the amateur
spirit, but he was never a dilettante: he knew
that no stroke of genius, however brilliant,
would have large consequences unless it could
be followed up, implemented, worked over into
other minds, shared, spread, elaborated and
kept going. It was this other side of his nature,
this patience with system and organization, and
willingness to support it, that would be left out
in any account of Joseph Lee that emphasized
only his originality, or indeed in any account
that dealt exclusively with his views on play.
It would be equally misleading to make too
'. much of his individuality or his individualism.
Or course, he was a striking person, just as a
person: not queer, but full of differences. And
he admired differentness: he used to talk about
liking apple trees because they were unex-
'tpected and informal. He liked people that had
.L roughnesses and irregularities in their appear-
ance, manners and ways of doing things. But
he had a thoroughly social mind and he was
t a thoroughly social person; and if this should

TO call Joseph Lee an

 
 
  
 
     

By HENRY W. HOLMES, LL. D.

Dean, Graduate School of Education
Harvard University

Prophet in Education

seem to be an inconsis-
tency or contradiction, I
am sure it may properly
be regarded as a conflict
fully resolved in the personality and thinking of
Joseph Lee. For he did really want everybody
to be himself, to live his own life, to get all the
flavor out of it, all its thrill and humor and
glory,- yet he was no atomist, never a defender
of irresponsibility, nor an exponent or admirer
of unheeding vitality. He valued human togeth-
erness as much as he did human differences.
Much as he admired William James, he was
philosophically more nearly a disciple of Josiah
Royce; which is as much as to say that he re—
sponded eagerly to the emphasis of James on
the plurality, variety and unpredictable "given—
ness” of things but sensed underneath this salti-
ness of experience a unity which pragmatism
and pluralism miss or disregard. I gather this
conclusion partly from a chance remark of his
to the effect that James was after all "an Irish—
man in philosophy," but chiefly from conversa-
tions I had with him about Froebel and the
kindergarten. He saw something permanently
valuable in Froebel's attempt to use symbols
and the gathering of kindergarten youngsters
in a, circle as a means of making children emo-
tionally receptive to the unity of the world, not
alone as a social fact or a social goal but also
as a universal fact and a final pattern for all
life. I believe he understood and exemplified
in his own living the ancient philosophical and
religious idea of variety in unity, a conception
which is at once mystical and practical, per-‘
mitting any amount of emphasis on individual-
ity, and delight in it, without denying the bond
of oneness in the ultimate nature of things or
the community of human existence.

If Joseph Lee had not believed in organized
social effort, he would never have supported
the Harvard-Graduate School of Education. The
university training of teachers and school offi—
cers is no vagabond undertaking, nor a one-
man game. Those who knew Mr. Lee as a
writer on play and as President of the National
Recreation Association may be surprised to

527

528 PROPHET IN EDUCATION

learn that he was deeply interested in training
superintendents of schools at Harvard Univer-
sity; but his close associates in the recreation
movement —- and any attentive reader of his
writings—will recognize that all his interests
were far-reaching. His support of professional
training in education at Harvard was connected
with his work in immigration, in family welfare,
on the School Committee of Boston, on the
Harvard Board of Overseers, and in the play—
ground movement. It was all of a piece. He saw
things in relation and acted on a wide front.

His method of helping the Harvard School
was characteristic. He quietly gave the school
men and then he left them strictly alone. For
five years he paid my own salary, through the
University, and he was kindness itself to me
and mine,- but he never made the slightest at-
tempt to influence my thinking. Later he paid
the salary, also for five years of Professor
George E. Iohnson; and I am sure he would
have said that he could not possibly teach
Iohnson anything but had learned many im-
portant lessons from him. I do not mean that
Mr. Lee would have given men to the school
in any field or for any purpose. Although he
once said to me that the superintendent of
schools might become in New England (if he
knew enough and had the right quality) the
spiritual successor of the Puritan minister as
leader of the community, he never offered to
give the school a professor of educational ad-
ministration. Iohnson was a teacher of play
and recreation and I began as a teacher of
the history of education, emphasizing the the-
ories of Froebel. Thus we both represented in—
terests dear to the Lees. Nevertheless Mr. Lee
did for us what he always did: he helped us
without the least attempt to dominate or dictate.

It was Mrs. Lee's interest in the kindergarten
that led Mr. Lee to study and believe in the
philosophy of Froebel. By nature and by her
own training Margaret Cabot Lee was a living
example of the serenity and the sympathy
which are—or were—~the keynotes in the char-
acter of the good kindergartner. She was at
once self-contained and infinitely kindly. Per-
haps Mr. Lee might not have acquired any
great faith in Froebel's ideas if he had not
found them exemplified in his wife; but he had
an unprejudiced grasp of them, simply as
ideas. Indeed, he developed them, especially

   
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
  

in his treatment of play as a way of life at I
ages. It is not his thinking about play, howev
that I ought to emphasize, for that part of

work is well known to readers of Recreatz'o
although I ought to record the fact that he

himself for one year Lecturer on Play at H
vard. It is more to the point to make it cl
that he recognized the importance of the ..
aspect of Froebel's theory and that he carr
into his own work and thought the hope a:
faith that education might serve as a me
toward human brotherhood.

I suppose it is inevitable that all of us
are professionally absorbed in educatio
work should get shortsighted about it. '
twenty-two years Ioseph Lee was a mem
of the Overseers' Committee for the'Harv
Graduate School of Education, and I can
suppose that the things we talked about in
meetings of that Committee always seemed
him important. But never, so far as I can
member, did he evidence any lack of inter
or tell us that we were bogging down into t e
routines of our job. On the contrary, he oft
discussed matters of detail in such a way as l
bring out their significance. I remember t
we were concerned at one time—.as we 3 .4
are —- about questions relating to the size
schools. We planned researches to disco
the optimum number of pupils in an elementa !
school building. Mr. Lee lifted that question ~
once to the level of a more philosophic inquir :
he had been reading a sociological study a
a book on physics and he remarked that 1
every phase of life the size of the unit is o
basic importance. He was thus constantly C
cerned with large questions of ends and mea
and with the best methods of finding the tru
All this was in no sense unrelated to his co
tinued interest in play; but if one knew of hi
only that he wanted the life of young and d1
to be made free and joyous through recreatio
and through art, it might not be clear that h
made the philosophic connection between pl.
in the life of the individual and, the endurin
values of the life of mankind.

. .

U!
{2.
5
<:
(D
g
"1
l"
('D
('D
U)
C.‘
LO
LO
(D
59.
(D
0..
Q
m
H
O
D"
:3
U)
0
:3

appointment at Harvard because he too had
philosophic view of play. “Jim” Johnson wa
one of the most lovable men I ever knew: arik
he had a quiet profundity of mind that mati
him the most valuable of academic colleaqui

£

  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  

d’rd advisers. He was a Dartmouth graduate,
qlhd played on the Dartmouth baseball team;

| h' graduate work in education was done under
l (i Stanley Hall at Clark. He had long experi-

-, shoe in school work, including administrative
eberience in playground work, before coming

 
 

ws on the problems and issues in his field.

Mve carried forward, at least in one center of
twining, the work of applying some of the ma-
jqr insights of Joseph Lee. One article of John-
s 's, called "Teaching Children to Fight” con-
t' ns the best application I ever saw of the dis-
tinction between righteous indignation in its
pr0per individual expression and the cold hor-
rors of war.

Looking back on the life and work of Ioseph
Lee, and thinking especially of his generosity

of what is called "Practical Politics."

It

Harvard, and he brought with him ripened .

.. JOSEPH LEE AND THE BOSTON SCHOOL COMMITTEE 529

to the School of Education at Hawardmwhich
I have made no attempt in these paragraphs to
recount in full—what impresses me is the genu-
inely prophetic character of his mind. He was
interested in the present detail of living; he en-
joyed the here and now and the unrelated zest
of the moment: but he also believed that lives
add up and he wanted them to add up to better
things and to converge on larger ends. He was
interested in final values as well as in fullness
of immediate experience. In my own view of
education—especially of the professional train-
ing of teachers—interest in final values is of
great importance. Unless we have some clarity
of mind about what it is all for, we are bound
to become Cynics or routineers. To the end of
his life Ioseph Lee kept alive the prophetic
sense: he never ceased to think about what
education is for.

Joseph Lee and the Boston School Committee

By DAVID D. SCANNELL, M. D., Boston, Massachusetts

' T was my privilege to serve on the Boston School Committee for three or four years with

‘ I one of the most delightful and cooperative colleagues imaginable. We all have envisaged
a public service surrounded by members whose motives and ideals could never be ques-
tioned, men and women who looked only to the good of the cause and fought vigorously,
and courageously when attempts were made to do it damage. Such a man was Ioseph Lee,
affectionately called "Joe" by every one who knew him. He was an Idealist if ever there was
one, and as applied to the School System of Boston, that Idealism was embodied in just one
thought "the good of the children.” He never failed in that. Proper housing for pupils, proper
numbers of pupils to teachers, healthy recreational opportunities, extended use of school-
houses for not only pupils but also adults, adequate medical supervision, cooperative nursing
schemes—all these were dear to his heart and energy. He vigorously upheld the merit sys-
term in the selection of teachers, and was a bulwark of strength and support to our long and
successive list of able school superintendents. He was one of the most reasonable men I ever
knew. Differences of opinion were respected and evaluated, and if he felt that one's point of
view had the greater measure of right, he cheerfully gave over without a suggestion of dis—
appointment. Anger was absolutely foreign to him. We have had many men in Boston who
have been referred to at one time or another as "Boston's First Citizen."
edly given that title to Ioe Lee, a generous, self-sacrificing, whole-souled, lovable man whose
idealism and purity of motive were never questioned even by those who work in the field

Many have deserv-

From Jacob Bits in 1902

"How the Other Half Lives," I received

a letter postmarked "Brookline, Mass,”
and signed "Ioseph Lee," asking some purely
academic question about sweating. Now,
sweating is a nuisance at all times, not to be
borne, and with an academic discussion of it
I never had any patience. A club seems to me
to fit it better. And I remember thinking, "Who
now is this fellow come to bother me?” and feel-
ing rather ungracious about it. I hope Mr. Lee
.has forgotten it. First impressions are but poor
stuff. I suppose it depends on the man who re-
ceives them. The years that have passed have
shown me and all of us Mr. Lee as he really
is: the practical, common-sense champion of the
boy and of his rights, in school and home and
in the playground—«particularly in the play-
ground, where the boy grows into the man. To
him it has been given to grasp the full meaning
of Froebel's warning that through his play the
boy gets his first grip on moral relations. That
at last we are beginning to heed the warning
is due, here in our country, largely to the clear
reasoning and lucid statement of Ioseph Lee.
Nothing "could be less academic, in its accepted
meaning, than the campaign he has urged for
"the Men of To-morrow.”

Hence he comes in his own right to tell us of
"constructive and preventive philanthropy” at
the close of the century that is past, and that he
should have such a story to tell is by long odds
the best testimonial to the century. At the head
of it all he puts the preservation of -the home,
which, he says, is part and parcel of the fight
for good government. Yes! and the biggest part
of it; for unless we can preserve it,——-say, rather,
restore it in our cities,—-—-we shall not long enjoy
the government or the freedom for which we

QUITE some years ago, when I had written

would all so gladly die—and sometimes, illogi—

cally, find it so hard to live. Had not Mr. Lee's
book ended with the cen-
tury, he would have been
able to point to the certain
signs that we are winning
the fight for the people's

530

This introduction by Jacob Riis to
"Constructive and Preventive Philan-
thropy” is used by permission of the
Macmillan Company, publishers.

homes. It was worth living just to be in th
fight.

And then the play! “The boy without I
playground,” says he, "is father to the ma
without a job, and the boy with a bad pla
ground is apt to be father to a man with a 1'0
that had better have been left undone." If h
had written nothing else, he would have earne
a place among the real sages of the day, «
whom there are not too many. No one ha
understood boy-nature better, and, after a1
boy-nature is just the beginning of man-natur
It isn't for his badness the boy admires th
tough, but for the real heroic stuff that is in hi .
for his courage, his resourcefulness, his darin
"Give these qualities their legitimate means 0
expression in hard organized play," and bur
lary "will be abandoned as an inferior form 0
sport."

   
  
  
  
    
  
 
   
  

Mulberry Bend was "materially worse" tha
the rest of the neighborhood,—-—-—thanany oth
place I ever saw or heard of. It was a pigst
only the pigs were men. Therefore the me i
became pigs in that foul spot. I do not reme 
ber Bromley's map, but if it had only two alley 3
in the Bend, it must have been woefully bad. '

knew a dozen, yes, two dozen. And if there ar
hundreds of such alleys in Boston, that town i

not fit to be on any map. But there are non
such. Neither is there the least mystery abo
why murder ceased in the Bend when the pig-
stieswere torn down: the sunlight came in, th I
was all, and grass and flowers and birds, an
with them peace. Where the slum rules un ‘
challenged, everybody feels more or less lik
sticking his neighbor when he as much as!
makes a face at him. And I do not know but;
the feeling is natural: life is not worth living
in such a place.

But that was not what I started to say: just
this, that Mr. Lee has written a good and useful"
book, though not half as
good and useful as he i6
himself,- and he has shown
the faith that is in him bum

(Continued on page 582) 

l

‘.

 

I. With the Class of 1883 at Harvard

S Secretary of the Har-
vard Class of 1883 I have
been a sked to write
bout Joseph Lee as a
ember of that Class. I  r" -- 
. -' \ spa
'do this gladly, the more 1 - - 
so because it gives an  q. ,-
Epportunity to quote ' 1
Born e of Lee's own
words spoken to, or
written for, the Class.
In college, Lee was a
member of numerous
clubs and societies but,
while he doubtless en—
joyed his membership
in these, I think they
never were, as with
some, of transcendent
importance in his col-
lege life. .
tHe was interested in ,, .. ~ . .' .- . M...
’(

   

 

hletics. He p 1 a y e d

otball on our Fresh-
man team, taking part
in five matches. In our SOphomore year he
rowed on our Class crew and at our Fiftieth
Anniversary of graduation he was number
three in the eight which made a gallant appear-
ance on the Charles River, rowing, despite its
years, in much of its old time form. In our Junior
and Senior years he entered the middleweight
sparring contests which took place in the old
Hemenway Gymnasium. In the former year he
won, in the latter he was beaten, but only by
the late William H'. Rage of New York, an un-
usually good boxer.

His record in scholarship, while not outstand-
ing, was good. He was especially interested in
Political Economy (as Economics was then
called), History and Philosophy. He graduated
fifty-seventh in a class of two hundred and five.

He was always a loyal member of our Class,
' and, of late years especially, was a pretty reg-
ular attendant at our dinners' and gatherings.
He was always ready to respond when called
upon to speak to us and he usually was called

By GEORGE D. BURRAGE

Secretary, Class of 1883
Harvard University

 

Joseph Lee in 1883

upon, for the Class took great
pride in‘its distinguished class-
mate.

At a Class dinner in
1908, celebrating “the
Twenty-fifth Anniver-
sary of our graduation,
Lee spoke on "Paternal-
ism." T h e Massachu-
setts Legislature sits an-
nually. There had been,
as there still is, a strong
feeling in favor of bien-
nial sessions only. The
following are extracts
from Lee's speech:

f'My talk is in favor
of paternalism. I sup-
pose I am the only man
here who is on that
side. The current talk

 ,.  - r  . <’ is all against public ac-

tion of every sort, and
especially against leg-
islation. NeWSpapers
and public speakers are always saying that it
would be better if our legislators met less often,
and had shorter sessions, and if they didn't do
anything when they do meet. I believe that this
talk is all rot, that the truth is exactly the Oppo-
site, that progress is to be sought not in sup-
pressing the means by which the public pur-
pose is announced, but on the contrary, by
making such expression more adequate. Peo-
ple say that legislation is ineffective, that a law
is of no use until it has public opinion back of
it, and that when you have public opinion the
law is unnecessary. The same may be said of
an axe. If you lean it up in the corner of the
wood shed it will not accomplish much except
to accumulate rust. But all the same a man can
cut down more trees in an afternoon with an
axe than he can chew down with his teeth.
. . . .Another thing that is always said against
legislation is that it puts an end to competition.
You might as well say that the Marquis of
Queensbury Rules interfere with competition.

531

 

6mg: “Summon E nmmm ma 2 mm mm..._ ammmoh .hzmowmmmmamnm @3330 x53 “9,?
mag. 98? £335 93 mgugmn >53: mm dan 550$ 9% 53m mmimJO 9.:
a: “535m 330 $30 95 633mm «0 mwwa mo 330 may Ho 9355“ £633 9.: 3w :3an .2333

 

532

10

WITH THE CLASS OF 1883 AT HARVARD 533

When I turn back to an earlier page of my ex-
perience I almost wish that they had, but the
, fact is certainly the other way.

I

h ,

l- "The talk against annual elections of the
legislature, and still more that against annual
sessions, is a pernicious part of the campaign
against paternalism. A legislative hiatus every

-, other year is a check on every movement. . . .
You can't carry on crusades on that principle.

You might as well try to make love biennially.
Biennial sessions won't hurt the grafter at all.
He will always be there. He does not depend
on a continuous campaign. But you will kill
off your popular movements for the expression
of the moral purpose of the community."

, For a Class report issued in 1933 on the Fif-
tieth Anniversary of graduation Lee responded
to the Secretary's request for an account of his
activities since 1913, the year of the last previ-
ous Class report. Fortunately Lee did not con-
fine himself to the period, 1913-1933, but cov-
red a wider field. He wrote:

l "My obsession since 1913 has been, as a1-
1 ays, with social work—dealing with who gets
 and what happens to him afterwards, gen-
rally known as selection and education. '

[ "In selection I have done little but help to
inance Prescott. Hall and Robert deCourcy
I ard——and more recently R. M. Bradley and
I ard's son, Henry deCourcy Ward—in their
.1 ery effective work in securing laws that have
1 ut down the annual European influx of about
00,000 by about two-thirds. In these years of
epression such immigration, owing to admin-
strative action, is now a minus quantity. When
heir efforts to cut down the present quota laws
ave become successful and similar laws ap-
lying to Mexico and to Latin America gener-
lly have been secured and the birth rate of
he chocolate races has been put in low, which
‘ t is now beginning to approach, the '83 and

Jenerally American brand of citizen may last

or quite a while.

 

 

"In education I put in nine years (1908-17) on
he Boston School Committee, where I helped
0 get the backward, forward, stammering, tu»
)erculous and otherwise peculiar individuals
wt in special classes where they could get the
eatment they required and not bother the

"4 eachers and everybody else. In administrative

.atters I was ineffective, partly because I

aimed at good administration instead of being
contented with the attainable mediocrity. But
I was bad at it anyway.

"My main educational work, however, has
been for playgrounds, meaning such forests,
oceans, mountains, brooks and other libraries
—-»not omitting back yards, roofs, and vacant
lots and playgrounds proper—together with the
facilities, obstructions, hazards, sunsets, human
inspiration and suggestion appurtenant thereto,
as may provide the fullest lopportunity for boys
and girls to grow up as human beings accord-
ing ‘"to the curriculum that nature has marked
out.

"For nature knows a thing or two upon this
subject, not so much as we do, of course, but
quite a lot. She has learned by trial and error,
and many of us are errors, I confess, but she
has been a long time at it, and her course of
study is based upon results. It is the required
course in education. Without our various addi-
tions to it our children would not grow up as we
should like: without her ground work they will
not grow up at all.

“The teaching of nature we call play, but it
is not easy and it is not secondary; its chief
courses are in exploration and experiment, in
creation, art and music, in love and nurture,
in war and hunting and in team play. It sows
the arts of war and peace, and aims at those
ends that men will die for and in pursuit of
which all human genius is expressed.

"Recreation is not alone for children but for
the aged also, because the aged know enough
to learn. Consider how docile we all are now
compared with freshman year.

“The playground movement began in the
late nineties and has spread all over this coun-
try and to many others. My contribution has
been in putting two leaders on a Boston play-
ground, in the years from 1900 to 1906, and
working out the various stunts and games, in
writing a book and many shorter things, in get-
ting various laws passed in Massachusetts
permitting or requiring certain play provisions,

‘ and in starting Community Service of‘Boston

which, guided by the genius of Mrs. Eva White
and managed first by her and then by W'. Dun-
can Russell, Ir., has by close cooperation with
the Park Department, raised the number of boys
and younger children carrying on games and
athletics on the city playgrounds to 16,200 last
year, from about one-tenth of that number. It

534 WITH THE CLASS OF 1883 AT HARVARD

has also for nine years conducted the annual
Fourth of July Pageant at the Frog Pond on the
Common--—afternoon and evening performanc-
es, music and, in the evening, colored lights.
The papers say the audiences are 35,000, and
they must be nearly that. It has put on Nativity
plays at the Public Library in Christmas week,
the first being an eleventh-century play of Can-
terbury. Last year it got the Park Department
to send a Christmas play on a truck to different
sections of the city, Where it was met by local
choruses who sang the music. It has helped
many organizations including, one year, fifty-
seven churches in their dramatic work.

"It runs an international music festival on
Washington's Birthday at Symphony Hall——
mostly choruses, including Armenians and
many other nationalities.

"I have also acted as president, or figure
head, of the National Recreation Association

founded by Luther H. Gulick and Henry S. .

Curtis in 1906, and developed almost wholly
by Howard S. Braucher, its executive head.

"The Association has led and guided the
playground movement practically from the
start, sending this year its field secretaries to
684 cities, and giving help and advice to 5,714
communities through its correspondence and
consultation service. Its community drama ser-
vice handled 7,059 requests for advice and ma-
terial on amateur drama problems and gave
45 cities personal help in planning community
drama programs and in training amateur
drama leaders.

"Most of the countries of EurOpe, Asia and
South America have asked and got its advice
——as to how to run a mining camp in Uru-
g u a y or organize a
baseball league in
Siam. (These are about
authentic, certainly
characteristic, accord-
ing to my memory.)

"The Association did
the recreation work out-
side the camps in this
country for the army
and navy during the
war and is still doing
the same work for forts
and training stations. It'
is also working by re-
quest for the United

"MY'memory of Joseph Lee goes back to col-
lege days. Though he came from- a socially
prominent family and though it was known 1
that he had considerable wealth, Joseph Lee
was simple in his tastes, gave little thought
to clothes and was very democratic. One of
my earliest memories is seeing a tall blond
youth in the boxing ring. He seemed awkward
and did not appear to know much about
boxing, but he would duck his head and
wade into his opponent. Joseph Lee did
not seem to know what defeat was. He came
out as champion in his class. We thought
of Joseph Lee somewhat as an eccentric,
but the work he has done showed how
great a man he was." —-From a Classmate.

 
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
     
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
     
   
 
   
  
  

States Departments of Education and Agric
ture and for similar departments in some thir
five of the states.

“In 1897' I organized the Massachusetts Ci
League with the purpose of getting the peo
who wanted better laws to work together cl
consecutively for them. They have done
and about a hundred such laws are on
statute book, of which thirty—two were pas
in 1931. They have also choked’off some f
others. The work of the Civic League has b
done‘by E. T. Hartman, Mrs. Wenona 0. Pi
ham and Miss Katharine Lyford. I have d
very little of it for the last fifteen years.

"Almost everything I have accomplished
been through legislation. Now everyb
knows that laws are bad--all laws, any 1
especially those suggested by reformers.
laws interfere with liberty and what we all n
is to be let alone.

"A pathetic case, illustrative of this w
known axiom, is a law that the Civic Lea
got passed this present year. It provided I
anybody who led a child astray—sex perv
opium'seller, or the like—would not only -
as already provided, what was coming to h'
but would thereafter be watched and wo ‘
have a sentence suSpended over him, cal 7
lated to put him out of circulation if ever cau '
doing such a thing again. The liberty of cert ll
of our citizens has thus been severely and
Sympathetically curtailed. The thirty-two 1
passed in 1931 have had a similar disheart
ing effect. One Civic League law has e u
robbed the cradle by providing an additio
institution where the class of feeble-mind '-
women who drifted in and out _of almshous
contributing a child
year to the gene
supply of misery, co
be taken care of. T

l
g
1
l

0‘

all laws conflict w
liberty and all are the t
fore bad. Yet if ‘
classmates wer e r
study every law th
have fought for, and .
the General C o u rt
Massachusetts were
be fille d exclusiv ~
from 83, I do not th' I
that one of them wo
be repealed."

 

P VERYONE in our country
I knows how limited is
, the conversational radi-
 of two old Boston families,—the Lowells and
’ - Cabots. Little, however, is heard outside
1? - immediate neighborhood of the Hub of an-
. er very quiet, old Boston family which has
 n since Colonial days serving the commu-
T’ y. Generation after generation, many men
,! the Jackson famliy have become eminent
o ysicians, and recently one of them led in
aking the helpful discovery of how to cure
érnicious anemia. The Associated Charities,
,‘ ow the Family Welfare Society of Boston, is
reeminently a Jackson institution. The first
resident, Robert Treat Paine, was a Jackson;
he second president, Dr. Charles P. Putnam,
: 'as a Jackson; and two women, Miss Marian
ctkson and her cousin, Miss Frances Morse,
qre the burden for years of making the Society
itceed. Another Jackson, perhaps better
wn to the world, was Henry Lee, senior part-

of the great firm of Lee, Higginson and Com-

jw y, and rated by those who knew him the first
‘ en of Boston. Following Mr. Lee as senior
,u tner of the firm and also as first citizen of
3 ion was yet “another Jackson, Henry Lee
gillsginson, best known as the founder and for
I » y years the supporter of the Boston Sym-
jr ny Orchestra. Succeeding Mr. Higginson,
L» as head of the firm and as first citizen, was

 es Jackson Storrow, to whom the City is
‘l

ebted for its beautiful Charles River Espla-
lu e and for most useful service in the con—

ll ct of the public schools of the City. Better
( wn still throughout the country was the
e ered Oliver Wendell Holmes, long Associate
ustice of the United States Supreme Court, who
vds also a Jackson. ’

 

Joseph Lee, son of Henry Lee, was on his

0. ther's side a Cabot of the Cabots: but the
‘t' 'n dominant throughout his life was the
xson strain. He loved a quiet life and public
i

 

ice. Admired in his youth by all the other
03’s, and not less profoundly by the girls who
new him, the door of every fashionable club
nd house was wide open to him; but he

1

. ' . Joseph Lee

By JOHN F. MOORS

President
Family Welfare Society of Boston

seemed hardly to know that
they existed. His father own-
ed a fine house on an exclu-
sive promontory on the fashionable North
Shore of Massachusetts Bay; the son bought
for himself on the other side of the bay a little
house known as "The Collar Box," planted on
a small beach with other houses as close to it
as was physically possible. He pointed out
shrewdly that, if a child is to. be happy in his

. play, he must be where other children are; for,

the child who comes from a distance of over a
quarter of a mile remains a stranger.

The training of a child's mind through play
was to him a real drama. Very early he made
a plea before the Massachusetts legislature for
a Children's Bureau which would separate de-
linquent children from vicious adults, and give
the former a fair chance for healthy develop-
ment. In this effort he did not succeed, but he
pointed the way to what became afterwards
the Boston Juvenile Court over which his broth-
er-in-law, Judge Frederick P. Cabot, presided
long and successfully. Very early, too, turning
his back on the fashionable part of the City, he
secured the right. to equip a vacant lot in a con-
gested section. Thither he went day after day
to watch the children at play, and was so deep-
ly impressed by the plight of the little ones, who
were forever being brushed aside by the big
ones, that the rights of the little ones were there-
after protected, and as we all know, his work
for children led to his becoming known as the
"Father of the Playground Movement.”

Lee's house was not only a home but a
workshop. There, every day, he went to work
with as much zest as others showed for gainful
occupations. The more he did the more there
was to do, for the problems of this world can
never be fully solved. '

Americans know little about his quarter of a
century and more of labor in behalf of re-
stricted immigration. In fact, many of his best
friends did not sympathize with this labor; but
he was a prophet in foreseeing that immigra-
tion at the rate of a million a year would de
velop just such a conflict between classes and

535

536 JOSEPH LEE

masses as this country now faces. And he fore—
saw that the rich would grow richer and the
poor poorer unless both the quantity of immi-
gration should be restricted and the quality
improved.

The world outside Boston probably knows
little about his many years of work in behalf
of improving the public schools of Boston. He
was the principal contributor to the Boston
Public School Association which for many
years elected excellent members of the School
Committee. For twelve of these years he was
himself a member of that Committee, where he
served with singular devotion, and always kept
in mind the play side in the life of children,
making it a point that every public school
should have a playground either beside it or

on its roof.

He created, and for years was the main sup- 

port of, the Massachusetts Civic League which
sought to bring about wise and to prevent un-
wise legislation.

He was a devoted friend of the Associated
Charities of Boston, and was, in fact, the largest
contributor to the Society; while his wife, Mar-
garet Lee, was the backbone of the organi-
zation. -

Two bits of biography have long since been
forgotten, if ever known outside a small circle.
Early in his manhood, an enterprising real es-
tate syndicate had bought the pews in Park
Street Church (known as "Brimstone Corner”
because of the doctrines long preached there);
and, having bought the pews, the syndicate
contended that it owned the property which
was perhaps the most valuable real estate in
the City. The steeple seemed to young ‘Lee
singularly beautiful, and, as it was visible to
everybody approaching it across Boston Com-
mon, it was a landmark which should not be
destroyed. He undertook to buy out the syndi-
cate. "It will cramp my style," said he, "for the
rest of my life, but I see no other way of keep-
ing that steeple for the citizens of Boston.” For-
tunately the court subsequently held that the
purchase of pews in a church which had been
spared taxes did_not give legal ownership of
a church, and Lee's style was thereafter far
from cramped. The other bit of biography was
this: President Coolidge's patience with Mexico
was at one time so nearly exhausted that he
threatened to intervene with fire and sword. A
group was hastily organized to prevent such

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   

intervention. This group waited on Senat
Butler, who had been Coolidge's CCImpqi
manager, and apparently impressed him wi
the advisability of trying a more humane met
od. The group then organized with Senat
Norris as Honorary President and with vari'o
other senators showing marked sympathy. L
was one of two men who paid all the expens
of this organization. Whether it was a case
post hoc or proptet' hoc can never be kno

but, shortly afterwards, Coolidge appoint
Dwight Morrow ambassador to Mexico; a
thus was begun the "Good Neighbor" sp
with all Latin America which is now one of t
bright spots in a dark world.

The contrast between Ioseph Lee and
father was marked. The father was not ‘only t
first citizen of a great city, but he was perha
the best dressed man there. The son took
more interest in fine raiment than he did in fi
houses and fashionable society. In fact, i
formal occasions, he owned only one-half

cutaway coat, the other half being owned
a classmate who lived at a distance of seve

miles. Practically never entering a club, no 0
liked better to join his cronies at luncheon in
hotel which supplied such liberal portions

food that these cronies were economizing by c ‘
dering fewer portions than there were people
eat them, and, rich as he was, he would inv
himself to become a member of 'what he call
the “Crab Band and Tip Verein.” He was
little on his dignity and thought so little ab
himself that when a year before his death,
friends and admirers met to do him honor,
stood patiently at the door of the banquet h I
till someone spied him and took him to the s
of honor. Then he remarked to a neighbor, I
if in surprise, "They are trying to make me -
something of a personage!" In his Massac

setts Civic League work he was strongly o .
posed to biennial sessions of the legislature I '
the ground that, betweent sessions, legislato i
would lose interest. "You cannot," he ”argu
"make biennial love to a girl!" Someone said 3
him in his youth, "Ioe, why don't you buy 0»
steam yacht and spend your money on thing
which will give you a good time?” "A go I
time!” he exclaimed in reply, "nothing woul
interest me less. But the problems of this wor at
and the solution of those problems seem to
to have unending interest." When, at 'last, ‘-
did invest in a tumbled down little boat,

f

 

went to a business man acquainted with the
stern and rock-bound coast on which the "Collar

x” was situated, and asked whether it would
f: safe to leave the boat at anchor or would
it be better to invest in a mooring stone. He
ointed out that the mooring stone would cost
6.75. “Joe,” replied the business man, “I have
known that coast for years, and I advise the
mooring stone." When Lee had gone, another
iuich man, who had been present, asked, “Is
your friend a bit nigh?” The business man re-
plied, ”Perhaps on what he spends on himself,
but yesterday I sent, for his account, on his

order, $25,000 to Harvard College.”

When it came to sport, he who so scorned a
steam yacht, bought while still in college, a pair
of secondhand skates; and those skates served
him for more than a half a century of skating
on one river after another in eastern Massachu-
setts. He knew the rivers and their strange and
dangerous behaviour and how the ice would be
strong in one patch and weak in another. He
knew the beauty of the scenery, and he was
overjoyed in the fun of rolling through it, first
one foot, then on the other, till the time came
for luncheon. Then, finding, if possible, a sunny
bank, he would pull out of his pocket a hunk
at raw beef, done up in a piece of newspaper,
cook the beef over a bonfire and lead the dis-
cussion about everything on earth. Finally, at
the end of the day, he would come to the climax
of the trip,—a baking hot railroad car, suffo-
cating to his companions but blissful to him.

  
   
    

Few rich men have ever given less attention
to their invested funds than he gave,- but he had
a shrewd sense of the fundamentals. Nearly
half a century ago, he and a classmate spent a
lune together in the Adirondacks, he fishing
and the classmate waiting for him to catch a
fish. Every night they would bet as to which
that day would be the higher at its maximum—
the thermometer or Atchison Railroad stock, in
which many rich Bostonians had invested, both
thermometer and stock then going daily, nearly,
if not quite, to 90. In the winter they continued
,the bets, substituting the minimumr of each,
when both thermometer and stock had fallen
close to zero. With a keen sense of human
nature he remarked about the stock as an
investment: "I think our friends would rather
lose their money with everybody else in Atchi-
son than save it in some investment which
nobody else has made."

lOSEPH LEE 537

He delighted in many kinds of beauty: his
nerves were set on edge by the opposite. A
fine landscape or picture or personality or the

high art in Eva Le Gallienne's acting was to
him a joy forever. But an unctuous preacher

or a room stuffed with needless furniture gave
him acute pain. He drew entertaining contrasts
between what he called long distance and short
distance speakers, the long distance, unless he
could divest himself of his platform manner,
being in private life only akpompous bore,- the

. short distance, unless he could divest himself

of his conversational manner, being sadly in-
effective on the platform. Fascinated by the ex-
traordinary ‘difference in pace of these two
kinds of speakers, he pointed out that, in. ad-
.dressing sixty people the proper pace was only
half as fast as that in ordinary conversation
and in addressing six hundred people only a
quarter as fast. But the very thought of using
any of the little tricks of oratory would have
made his tongue cleave to the roof of his mouth.
It would have been physically impossible for
him to "point with pride” or "View with alarm”
or be reminded of a story.

By virtue of his intelligence and his public
spirit he was a national leader. But such was

'his respect for independence in others, he was

never a commander. The people with whom
he most sympathized were the laborers in the
vineyard, working, day after day, for the least
of their brethren, yet, usually with none to
praise and very few to love, though those few

might love deeply.

He was an artist in epigrams and in exquisite
little verses to be hung, with May baskets, on
the door-knobs of the houses, where lived
young female cousins. Possibly, people who
did not know his life-long tenderness will get
an inkling of it from the following tribute paid
a beloved cousin who died not long ago, Henry

B. Cabot:

"If therefore thine eye‘be single, thy whole
body shall be full of life? He was our pattern
of integrity—that singleness of spirit that is the
condition and the source-of life. To him, as to
all the company of the single-minded, the way
was very simple—to form your code, as it is
given you to understand the law, and to live up
to it. His open mind to truth made knowledge
welcome. Wisdom knew his rectitude and came

and dwelt with him."

Notes About Joseph Lee

It was no accident that Joseph Lee's first book
was "Constructive and Preventive Philanthro-
py.” His very nature was suchgthat he wanted
to invest his time and thought where his ener-
gies would help to build aright, to prevent,
rather than merely to cure ills already brought 1
about by lack of forethought.

N

At 'a long Board meeting Joseph Lee scribbled
on a piece of paper: “I can sit longer, but I
cannot think longer.”

~

Joseph Lee was ready to stand for principles
which he considered important even when he
felt such principles would never be recoqnized
in his lifetime. He did not hesitate to fight for
what he knew to be losing causes if he was
sure they were important. He would never talk
about inner integrity, that was something to be .
taken for granted, but that was what mattered.

~

Joseph Lee always was troubled that he had
not written more. The only recognition for which
he cared deeply was for his writings. A friend
reminded him that Jesus who thought in terms
'of abundant life wrote nothing at all in words,

but left a very deep impress on all whose life
He touched and that His message still lived on.

~

Joseph Lee would have very much resented
anyone's calling him a saint. He was a saint—
though sometimes a profane one-—though never
profane except where there was cause. He
would have been skeptical of the man who is
under no circumstances profane—even inside.

538

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
    
     
  
  

One could not agree that "anger was fore'
to Mr. Lee." He did not think highly of

who never could get angry, for he felt that 8
men never cared deeply and Mr. Lee cared
many things with "all his strength and all
soul and all his mind.” Joseph Lee once wr
of Mrs. Francis Cabot: "Underneath one kn
there was the power of wholesome wrath."

N

Few people had as keen an insight as Jos
Lee into the motives of other people.

I
~

Joseph Lee cared deeply for standards,
making any program—whatever its natur
the best possible. So often he mentioned "T
Constant Nymph". and the insight this n
showed into the desire to do one's very best,
strive for perfection.

M

Mr. Lee thought much on the activities whi
have power to make men forget all else a
lose themselves completely, forgetting the pa
ing of time. He seemed satisfied that sailing
a stiff breeze, playing the violin, football
certain ages had this power.

~

Joseph Lee discouraged all recognition
himself. It is good to remember, however,
birthday luncheon as a tribute from the '
tional Recreation Association Board of Dir
tors, the dinner given him in Boston by the M .
sachusetts Civic League, the Sprinter, a pie
of sculpture by R. Tait McKenzie, given to h .'
at the Grand Rapids Recreation Congress, t .
War Department Distinguished Service Med
the LL.D. degree from Harvard.

 

l

-—-.

EW persons have realized how varied were
the contributions of Joseph Lee to the na-
tional recreation movement. Everyone rec-

nized Joseph Lee's vision, his insight into the
ner philosophy, into the fundamental princi-

es of living, but this was only one part of his
tivity in the movement. '

Joseph Lee cared profoundly for seeing actual

all people, wealthy as well as poor. There was
no distinction as to age, or 'race, or religious
faith. All were human beings and all were
equally entitled to an opportunity to build hap-
piness for themselves. Because of his philoso-
phy of life he did not want to do too much for

eople. He wanted to give individuals an op-
iortunity to do for themselves.

Joseph Lee was exceedingly practical in what
attempted to do in the recreation movement.
erhaps it was because he had a philos0phy,
ecause he had fundamental - principles, be-
ause he had thought things through, that he
as so essentially practical. He constantly em-
hasized the necessity in each community of
nding one person of ability who really cared,
ne person who would work in season and out
'of season to build the recreation movement. "It
is better to have one person who really cares
. and who will carry through to the end than to

try to have ten people who have only a feeble
interest.”

 

. Again, he recognized the necessity of con-

centration. He did not believe in attempting
' many projects and leaving them all half fin-
ished. He would say, "It is better to lift one
trunk clear up to the platform than to lift ten
trunks each half way up and then set them
down again. There is not much use in lifting
the trunk unless you are going to get it up to
the platform."

Because Joseph Lee was first and foremost an
educator, believing in growth through educa-
tion, he believed that the way to help in getting
things done was to start with those who cared

Joseph Lee

most, to expose such individuals to the full facts
and then to go on to those who cared less but
yet a great deal, rather than beginning with
individuals who were entirely cold to the prof-
ect. He would say, "If you have a dish of ice
cream before you and keep eating the soft, you
will find that there is no hard."

Mr. Lee liked men and women who had, as
he expressed it, “an instinct for the jugular
vein." After all, there is always a key spot to
attack and why waste valuable human energy
on what is not essential. He was not much inter-
ested in certain surveys which seemed to him
much like "counting the bricks” in various
buildings. After you have counted the bricks
in a few walls, there is not very much more to
be gained from counting bricks. Why not get
at something more important? Joseph Lee did
have a very practical side to him which often
he rather carefully hid or disguised so that it
was never fully recognized.

Perhaps it was because Joseph Lee was so
thoroughly practical that he was ready so fre-
quently to give his time to the disagreeable task
of raising money. First he gave generously
himself,- then he went to those closest to him,
to his friends, to his relatives and to others with
whom he had influence, and tried to secure
from them the money necessary to keep the
national recreation movement going. He had
invested his own time in working on a single
playground in Boston. He had seen for himself
just what was accomplished, the successes and
the difficulties. He knew what he was talking
about when he went to his friends and asked
them to help with funds toward a wider effort
for the National Recreation Association.

There were. times when for a week at a
stretch he gave all the strength he had to seeing
individuals to ask them for gifts. He never found
the task of raising money for the Association
an easy one. Frequently he said, “I care most
for the national recreation movement but it is
easier to raise money for other institutions for

539

540 JOSEPH LEE AND THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

which I care less.” The things which count most
are often intangible and hard to explain to oth-
ers in a few words.

During the thirty-one years of the life of the
National Recreation Association, first known as
the Playground Association of America, then
as the Playground and Recreation Association
of America, and later as the National Recrea-
tion Association, Mr. Lee himself gave more
than $360,000 to the work, and for most of the
thirty-one years he himself was raising money
and getting others to help him raise money for
the Association. Joseph Lee's leadership had
much to do with the fact that year after year
the members of the Board of Directors of the
Association who knew most about the work
contributed together or secured contributions
amounting to from 34% to 43% of the entire
budget for the various years.

Joseph Lee's part in shaping the policies of
the Association during the years from 1910 to
1937 was very great. Until about the last two
years of his life, when his strength was failing,
he never missed a meeting of the Board. A
meeting had for some five weeks been sched—
uled for a definite date and a few days before
this time Mrs. Margaret Cabot Lee had died
and the funeral was held on the day preceding
the Board meeting. Yet Mr. Lee came down on
the sleeper from Boston to New York to be pres-
ent at the Board meeting and to preside and
carry on with his responsibility as leader in
the national movement and no person present
at the meeting except the secretary knew until
after the meeting and Mr. Lee had left that his
wife had died. Mr. Lee never tried in any way
to Shirk any reSponsibility because he found it
difficult or disagreeable. In preparation for
Board meetings he was willing from time to
time to take several hours to go into compli-
cated questions, to think through all the details
involved so that he could be perfectly clear as
to what he considered the course to be followed.
And he Spoke out with authority because he
had taken time to think all around many of the
important questions brought up.

As a Speaker Joseph Lee made a very con-
siderable contribution to the movement through
out the country. Not only his“ addresses at the
annual Recreation Congress gatherings and
many addresses before the National Confer-
ence of Social Work, but also his addresses at

   
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 

cities such as Holyoke, Mass., Detroit, Mic
Baltimore, Md., and many other cities, were lo
remembered and were referred to by individ
als fifteen years later as having influenc
them in what they were doing in behalf of mo
abundant living for all. The mere fact that
national recreation movement had a presid
who was ready to give as much time as w
needed to the philosophy of the movement,
the formulation of policies, to the choice of p
sonnel, to the practical questions of administ
tion, ‘gave men and women everywh
throughout the country a confidence that t
could not otherwise have had. In all the pu
addresses as well as in the individual int
views and in the Board meetings and in t
committee meetings, one of the significant c
tributions of Joseph Lee was his humor,
capacity for some practical illustration whi
would light up the problem and help those pr
ent to see it in its true and inner aspect.

Joseph Lee's humor helped him to see t
recreation movement in relation to other mo
ments, to recognize that various moveme
were part of one large problem of human 1i
He often spoke of the social movements I
being like a piede of sod with all of the ro
intertwined so that whatever cause you to
up, you are brought'to all the others befo
you are through. Several times he spoke of t
importance of the play and recreation mov
ment because it seemed to him that it was su
an easy and natural place to take hold, to g
a start, to really bring about some of the soci
changes that are necessary. Why begin wi '
perhaps a very hard and very difficult ca
paign when one can just as easily take hold c .'
the more simple recreation problem which lea I
out into all others?

All that Joseph Lee did came out of'his de
and abiding interest in democracy, not merel |
democracy in electing political representative *
but democracy with reference to control of one I
own life and with reference to all of the thin .
that one cares most for. Year after year as h -
tramped in the woods or by the ocean, he talke
about the questions that relate to democracy. H -
did not believe in handouts. He did not believ
in carpentering men's lives. He did not believ "
in tying flowers to the plant. He wanted to s -
strong root systems built up for each individu _7
life, for each community, for the nation as l

 
 
 
   
  
   

I
D
I

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOSEPH LEE AND THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 541

_ ole. He wanted to see sun and rain and all
. - natural ‘forces given a chance to do their
'rt in building life up from the roots rather
firm tying things on at the extremities. Heiwas
u’l individualist and wanted to see each indi-
ridual part of the community strong. He had
.tience to be willing to wait for the educa-
15 a1 processes to bring about the changes
nil are needed, and yet because he had such
atience he believed it was essential to work
ard, to share one's own thinking so as to help
t ers to see all that oneself had seen as to
£10m and possibilities.
l, 'One reason that Joseph Lee cared so much
J. the play and recreation movement, the
bundant life movement, was because it
eemed to him that after all the chief end of
emocracy was to help give individuals and
ommunities the kind of surroundings which en-
bled them to be most truly themselves, and he
lt it was most important that individuals
hould have a chance through their own pow-
rs and their own efforts to work out what was
i ost fundamental to successful living.
He believed in local government, in provid-
'1: g playgrounds, baseball fields, swimming
ools, recreation centers through local govern-
(I ént. What Joseph Lee helped to do through
o'vernment for worthwhile living for the people
trengthened all local government in America.
One of the truly great characteristics of
'seph Lee was his openness of mind. In the
ear 1934 at the Recreation Congress at Wash-
i' gton, D. C., Joseph Lee lunched with a man
i ho in fifteen minutes presented briefly a point
f view which was diametrically opposed to a
ertain position which Joseph Lee had held

14’ trongly for not less than thirty years. He lis-

I

t

-l

 

tened intently, almost without interruption, and
at the end he said, “You have entirely con—
vinced me that I have been wrong all my life
in the point of view I have held. What you have
said is so clear and so simple that I cannot see
why I failed to see it for myself. It is perfectly
clear that I have been wrong all these years.”
It is only a man of greatness of Spirit and true
intellectual power who can right-about-face on
fundamental questions where he has held a cer-
tain point of view for more than a'generation.

Many things in Joseph Lee's life were too
deep for words. There were certain things
which it was exceedingly difficult to mention.
One could not, for example, live and work with
"Joseph Lee and not be conscious of the depth
of his religious feeling even though he never
talked to you about religion. One could not but
feel his reverence, his feeling for unity, his pas-
sion for progress.

Joseph Lee lived very simply in his own life
-—a very small but sunny little office: very few
luxuries for himself; breakfast at Child's Res-
taurant; a horror of spending money unneces-
sarily: of wasting postage stamps; the natural
man's love of old hats and old overcoats and
the simple things he is used to; and yet a readi—
ness to draw his check almost immediately for
exceedingly large amounts when he felt that
the cause warranted it. Simple as were his own
wants, yet he was able to think in terms of very
large gifts and very large undertakings for his
fellow men. In all that he did, he kept the heart
of a little child, yet with the wisdom and large-
ness of experience that comes only from having
been ready to live dangerously, to accept ad-
venture, not to run away from life in any of
its forms.

From Associates on the Board of Directors

His name was often and affectionately short-
.rned to “Joe Lee,” which so pronounced had in
: the suggestion of joy in living. He was the
,' carnation of the phiIOSOphy of play in its
HGHY definitions. He was known as "the father

. f the play movement in America.” An officer
" f the Playground and Recreation Association

of America from its organization, beginning
more than thirty years ago, he had for most of
the time served as its president. In that period
the movement spread to more than a thousand
cities and to it he gave without reserve.

No paid official could have given himself
with greater zeal to public service. He was de

542 FROM ASSOCIATES ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

voted especially to children, to making this a
happier earth for them and to helping them to
become more joyous beings in their own

persons.
His gospel was expressed in these words:

"In education there is a time for everything.
If that age has passed, the opportunity for that
acquirement is lost. The play leader must know
these ages _and the requirements appropriate
for each. He must know the philosophy of play,
the handing "over of the child to the great con-
stituting instincts of humanity—team play, com-
petition, creation, love. Above all, he must un-
derstand the need of 'let alone,’ the need of N
revery and solitude."

To him play was for children growth, the '1

gaining of life, and for the adults the renewal of

life.
Two saints known as Felicitas and Perpetua

had as their first full day on earth the day in
the calendar that became also his birthday.
They must have been the patron saints of him
who gave felicity to so many children and
youth throughout America and bequeathed an
influence that will be perpetual. — JOHN H.

FINLEY, LL. D.

~

What a personage Joseph Lee was and what
a fine and far—reaching influence he had. I
remember so well even now Joseph Lee's scin-

tillating address at a conference in Boston years
ago. —— ROBERT GARRETT.

One recreation worker and his wife have placed $500 in the National Recreation
Association Endowment Fund marked "In Memory of Mr. Lee." Several workers have
written wishing that there might be a chance to share in such a fund.

One friend of Joseph Lee urges that the graduate professional school for recrea-
tion workers be known as the Joseph Lee National Recreation School and that this
School be made the memorial to Joseph Lee.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  

As an unusual group of officials of'the
tional Recreation Association sat about t
council table, the one to. whom the world
indebted for happier living, sat modestly a
quietly at its head. Of whom it could be said

"Nothing so strong as gentleness.
Nothing so gentle as real strength.“

Unassuming but forceful. One felt the depth
Mr. Lee's character when with him. ——-Ml

M. EDISON HUGHES.

One of the great privileges of my life
my acquaintance with Mr. Lee who embod
all the qualities that enrich life. I am, sure
influenced every one who came in touch w
him. What a gift to the world is thisl Now .
feels more intensely his wonderful spirit wh'
will still lead the recreation movement. -—- M I

G. LANIER.

A great philosopher, a great leader, a gr
lover, sound in theory, wise in action, a do
a giver, strong, virile, tender and understa
ing—such were some of the attributes of Jos

Lee.

His work will go on forever, his memory
be always cherished. — GUSTAVUS TO

KIRBY.

. Joseph Lee—His Contribution to Social Work

By EVA WHITIN G WHITE

Mrs. White is President of the

r MR. LEE knew how to live.
. Devoted to his family
and friends, he also gave of
his best to the furthering of the
:0 social and civic needs of his
city and country. His personal
life was rich in material blessings and in his
a association with many from different back-
.. grounds. Always he was willing to listen. His
. sympathy and wisdom never failed those who
appealed to him for assistance or advice. One
I might meet him again and again, yet one was
i always impressed with the breadth and depth
I fhis knowledge and with the humorous, gentle
I quality of his mind. His interests were many-
; ided, sweeping as they did from the needs of
ittle children to problems of statecraft; from bet-

erin] opportunities for the individual to scien-
ific questions.

   
    
   
 
 

Not only was Mr. Lee a generous contributor
| 0‘ various causes but he personally partici-
ted in every effort which he sponsored.
operation with him in the objectives which

ision, he was practical in meeting the ways
' d means of organization and it was charac-

' eiistic of him that detail never clouded the ulti-
ate aim.

Mr. Lee made a rare contribution to social
ork, because, it can be believed, he accepted

 

Years before the present theories of the abun-
, iant life centered attention, he wrote "Construc-
', ive and Preventive Philanthropy" and none
.' ather than Ioseph Lee could have written "Play
1 11 Education.” Further, as one reads the pam-
bhlets that have come from his pen, one under-
:tands the rounded philosophy which made
11m loYal to the purposes of The Family Wel-

l
are Society of Boston as well as to the Na- '

ional Recreation Association—40 the former in
is endeavor to lessen the hardships that bear

Women's Education and Indus-
trial Union of Boston and Head
Worker, Elizabeth Peabody
House. She speaks from many

years of association with Mr.
Lee in the civic affairs of Boston.

down upon men, women and

children and disturb the peace

of family life, and to the latter

which aims to bring to birth

latent powers in order that cit-

izens may develop to the full
their many-sided faculties.

Mr. Lee's thinking went far beyond ameliora-
tion. He built for a progressively qualitative
society in which the economic basis is, in truth,
not an end in itself. To him the cultured man
and first citizen was one who knew‘much about
the world as it is but was also concerned with
a better world. I‘

This better world dominated his thought. He
was among the first to battle for the elimination
of the slums, to endeavor to prevent delinquen-
cy and crime, to stop chicanery in politics. He
understood fully the effects of the law if well
administered and the evils of weak or iniudi-
ciously administered law upon general well-
being. Therefore, he founded the Massachu-
setts Civic League which has played a major
part in the legal procedure of Massachusetts.
He was foremost in the councils of the Good
Government Association and Public School.
Association when they existed in his city. To
all of these societies, social work in Boston
owes much.

Further, as a member of the School Commit-
tee of the City of Boston, he was largely re-
sponsible for socializing the educational sys-
tem. To him is due, in great measure, the credit
for the medical inspection of all pupils, for the
mid-day lunch, for the opening up of the school
buildings as community centers. He stood
staunchly for school visiting, for special care
for anaemic children, and for all that there is
in progressive education in the way of individu-
alized instruction for the extra bright child, as
well as the backward, and for adapting in-
struction to the child, not the child to the in-
struction.

Consistently Mr. Lee always kept that bal-
ance which maintains that the environment

543

544 JOSEPH LEE——H18 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIAL WORK

has much to do with individual growth or dete-
rioration and the theory that individuals are
responsible for their own environment. There-
fore, it is not surprising that while trying to
raise the standards of surrounding conditions,
he should have been active in Community Ser-
vice of Boston, which gives to citizens the op-
portunity to cooperatively develop and parti-
cipate in programs for personal and neighbor-
hood bettermentnprograms which range from
adult education and local improvement socie-
ties to classes in handicraft, music, and the
drama.

Further, no one could have a greater appre-
ciation of the genius of the races represented
by the foreign—born than Mr. Lee. He was an
immigration restrictionist, because he believed
that the immigration restriction laws were for
the benefit of the foreign-born as well as for
the (country, and for no other reason. Seldom

L.._'.  “.6”- - e‘

Courtesy Camden, N. 1., County Park Commission

Swimming Mr. Lee felt to be one of the best of sports \

does one meet a person more free from pr
dices of all kinds. Born an aristocrat, he was n
the full sense of the word a democrat. Wealt .
he understood the struggle of the poor and (I
all that one man could to lessen their burd

Finally, the playground movement, w 1:
Mr. Lee did so much to bring to its pre 1
recognition, extended the scope of social e f
to include all those values which leisure ‘ ‘1
give to the individual and to society. The -
tlety of his mind was shown in his insiste
that the recreation movement be not interpr
as combating this or that but that it stand 0 s
merits as developing physical fitness, givin 3
opportunity for spontaneous association, I {
bringing with it joy and the appreciation l
beauty. I

Mr. Lee's influence in his own commu ‘
and throughout the country will be cumulat

1’

 

 

About Community Service of Boston

' 1917 Joseph Lee was ap-
ointed a member of the
, ommission on Training
p Activities of the War
artment. At the end of the World War there
e left in Boston some soldiers' clubs and
e active committees which ran annual balls
oldiers and looked after the disabled men.
hen the war was over Mr. Lee's interest lay

romoting leisure time activities for citizens
oston. With Mrs. Eva Whiting White as the

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  

. objective, of which he spoke many times,
s to start some form of recreation under the
pices of Community Service, with the hOpe
I , as soon as it was operating successfully,

: munity Service

 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

t turn it over to the
le immediately in-
_. ed to carry it on,
ing the parent organ-
n free to pioneer in
- other direction.

sic and drama for
e people received a
t impetus under the
rship of Mr. Lee
Mrs. White. Some

tiful Christmas pagr
s were presented at the Boston Public

1 y, and for a number of years, on the
th of July, Boston Common was the scene
me large pageants in which many school
ren from the settlement houses partici-
.

e following quotation from one of Mrs.
te's reports gives some idea of the varied
s of Community Service during its early
s, and of the great number -of persons
ted.

" the present time, Community Service en-
avors to do three things,- first, to get more

unselfish. He

   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

"Joseph Lee had in himself a great
capacity for enjoyment. He sketched
pleasantly; he skated enthusiastical-
ly; he wrote amusing verse; he was
keenly interested in plays and
music. In his talk he was entertain-
ing and whimsical; his opinions
were fresh and original and always

liked and admired
the people with whom he worked.”

By” CHARLES JACKSON

Treasurer of Community Service
Boston, Massachusetts

that the latest develOpments
may be brought before the
workers.

"The range of work varies
according to the needs and interests of the
community. The number of persons who
come to the office, the inquiries, the problems
brought to the General Director are many.
Since we are not an operating agency but
an instructing agency, it will be seen that we
are assisting first one group and then an-
other; with the School Centres at one time,
then the Women's Clubs, the various church-
es, public schools and settlements.

"Also, first we have done local organizing;
then the local groups have' been swung into
city-wide contacts. We stand alone as an
interlinking organization.
Twenty thousand girls
are represented by our
Girls' Activities Commit-
tee, and about 50,000
boys by the City-Wide
Boys' Work Conference,
the Inter-Community bas-
ketball leagues, Inter-
Community b a s e b all
leagues, marble tourna-
ment (now run by the
Boston Traveler), Knot
Hole Gang, the Fourth of July pageant, Inter-
national Music Festival, aircraft tournament
and Better Homes Week.

"Then we have for a time operated certain
phases of the recreation program and later
withdrawn, as in East Boston. The walks
were taken over by certain settlements, and
the play street eXperiment stimulated sum-
mer work. The Park Department ran our pro-
gram of 1927 independently in 1928.

“Our educational program gives us constant
contact with and draws to us staff workers."
Besides the activities mentioned, Community

Service often acted simply as adviser and help-
er. The organization would, for example, pro-
vide a coach to help churches or other groups

  
   
 

nd more people into active relation with the
' held of recreation; second, to continuously
ise the standard of programs; third, to carry

on a series of educational institutes in order (continued on page 582)

545

i
O

 

'Ioseph Lee, Creative Philanthropist

OSEPH LEE h a d
I such an incisive
mind on all social
problems and was so
universal in his approach that it is impossible,
in a short article, to more than give a clue as
to his interests, methods, and personality. ‘
Having an inheritance—large, but not enor-
mous, in modern terms—he was able to, and
did, devote his entire life—and a very 'active
life it was—to the public good. As far as I
know, he never did anything for his own per-
sonal benefit. He lived his life as he thought
everyone so situated should live his life in a
democracy, and one of his greatest contribu-
tions to the literature of democracy appeared
during or around 1899 in the "New England
Magazine."
Because of the failures of the past, Mr. Lee

recognized that curative work was needed. He

gave support to every constructive method of
curing obvious defects, such as illiteracy, ill-
ness, and delinquency; and he keenly sought
the more obscure defects, such as undetected
defects of the eye and other organs of the body
which often, without the knowledge of anyone,
handicapped the individual. He knew, how—
ever, that a sound body was the prime objec-
tive, ordinary defects then not so much ap—
pearing.

Not mere alleviation, not mere cure, essential
and important as they are, but a creative, con—
structive program which leaves the smallest
possible amount of need for alleviation and
cure was his objective. He had very little
sympathy for those earnest and tearful souls
who are so enamoured of the nobility of their
work in caring for human rubbish that they ask
the Lord to continue to give them more and
more of it to do. He was thus a creative philan-
thrOpist and one of the very few men worthy
of being known as philanthropists.

Some of his income may have been derived
through methods of which he did not approve,
as is indicated by a quotation given later. He
was, however, so devoted to his work as a citi-
zen that his bank account was managed by

546

By EDWARD T. HARTMAN

Massachusetts State Consultant in Planning
Formerly Secretary, Massachusetts CiviclLeague

   
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 

one man and his
vestments by anoth
When he support

a movement he s
ported it whole-heartedly and unselfishly. .
a trustee of Harvard, he asked President El ,
to establish a special school of education a
convinced all that the idea was sound. Pre
dent Eliot replied that the idea was sound o 1
that they did not have the money. "All righ 
said Mr. Lee, “I'll give it to you.” He then ca . 1
over to town and saw the man who look 3
after his bank account and said, "John, I pro 5
ised President Eliot $25,000. By God, have
got it?" ‘
In his approach to questions he had gre |
power of penetrating a mass of vague sta :
ments and coming out with the gist of the thi LI:
accompanied generally by a pretty sound 1 .
terpretation of the worth of the idea. When ;
his best, he was epigrammatic, rather than (:1 !
cursive. He didn't want to waste his time or t ‘
time of anyone else in explaining anything a:
needless detail. In an article on "Liber |
through Legislation,"_in 1899, he asserted th I,
if we are going to have anything to enjoy :-
the future, at least so far as natural objects a -
concerned, we must conserve what we hav '
use it sensibly, and pass it on to future gen
ations. In this connection he described t
Assabet, a small river in Massachusetts, se I
ously contaminated by dye works along i
banks. Later, in a talk on conservation,
epitomized himself by apostrophizing the Ass
bet: "The Assabet, the beautiful, blue Assab

—so blue that its cerulean hue rubs off on t
grass."

I
t
t

l

  

His theory and practice were that both th
child and the citizen grows by what he doe '
He repeatedly asserted, that it was what th
individual did, and not what was done for hi
that caused growth. He believed that the wor
"philanthropist" was erroneously used exce
in an very few cases. He held that any citize
who knew the problems of his communit'
state, or nation and worked earnestly for t a
solution of those problems became automat

t
{lb
l.’

l

 

 

 

IOSEPH LEE, CREATIVE PHILANTHROPIST 5‘

cally a real philanthropist—a worker 'for the
common good. '

After almost 17 years of practically daily con-
tact with Mr. Lee, I think he had a better con-
ception of democracy and of the individual in
a democracy than any other man I ever en-
countered. He held that every citizen should
advance by all processes everything in which
he had a substantial interest, and that the man
who had no such interest wasn't much of a
man. He believed that the great and General
Court of Massachusetts was a judicial rather
than a legislative body, because it rarely ini-
tiates legislation but appraises and adOpts or
rejects legislation proposed by citizens, organi-
zations and public bodies. He believed strongly
in the need for and efficiency of legislation,
saying that legislation was a tool like“ an axe.
You can cut down more trees with an axe than
you can with your teeth. You can accomplish
more with sound legislation than you can with
no legislation. In spite of this, he had no sym-
pathy or use for needless or meaningless legis-
lation and always energetically fought perni-
cious legislation. '

Convinced as he was of the importance of
the energetic “activity of all citizens towards con-
structive ends, not only because of the desira—
bility of the ends themselves but because of the
effect on the citizens, he once said—and I quote
it because every American should be forced to

read it at least once a week—". . . The sover-
eign peOple have asserted their intention of

hereafter attending to this business of lawmak-
ing for themselves. The trouble is that, having
taken upon his own shoulders the direct work
of legislating, King Demos has then proceeded
to go about his own private business, exercis-
ing his sovereign power only on great occa-
sions, and for the rest of the time leaving upon
our hands that most dangerous article of furni-
ture, a vacant throne. Our king feels, and justly
feels, so strong in his power to take up the reins
whenever he chooses to come back, that he has
become careless as to who shall hold them in
his absence. Private cor-
porations and other per-
sons with interested mo-
tives, and the paid lobby-
ists who represent them,
have climbed into the va-

"I had the rare privilege of working
with Joseph Lee for many years in the
Civic League. He was a great citizen,
serving the people nobly and disin-
terestedly." Alice G. Brandeis.

cant seat; sometimes, even, the throne is occ
pied by that most grotesque figure that ev
played the ape with the royal insignia, t]
political boss. . . 

He then expressed wonder, not so much
bad legislation but at the amount of good le
islation which was procurable, even through
democracy which is notably inefficient.
times he was amazed at the number of phy:
cally, mentally and morally efficient citizei
coming out of our slums where they grow 1
under almost every type of handicap.

Mr. Lee was never a bluffer and he wou
undertake no task where he thought failure wc
the only possible outcome. Mayor Peters aske
him to do a piece of work, and he refuse
I was then asked to try to persuade him, ar
did so. His reply was: "It is useless. If I go :
and play with the gang, I am hamstrung. If
go in and fight the gang, I will be hamstrun'
Nothing can be done now.”

The simplicity of Mr. Lee's habits, whic
characterized his whole life, may be illustrate
by the following: At a committee "meeting I
illustrated a point by telling about being out c
the ice the day previous and using his coc
spread by his hands, as a sail to send hi
across the ice. 'He was out all day: One of ti
committee members asked him what in tl
world he did for something to eat. He replie
"I had a slice of raw beef and some bread
my pocket." He was then asked how he cooke
it. He replied, "'Over a fire. You'd be su
prised what a good sandwich you can mal<
out of a piece of beef burnt on both sides an
frozen in the middle." Statements like that we]
sure to break up any frigidin that might hav
developed in a committee meeting. NumerOL
examples could be given, illustrating this; an
the fine point of it all was that it was alway
an unconscious act on the part of Mr. Lee. H
simply was being himself.

"Mr. Lee, who worked as hard as any man
ever knew, lived always on the frontiers c
social thinking. He is justly recognized as th
father of the America
playground system. H
advanced all new move
ments of a constructiv
nature and new method

(Continued on page,.583)

Stan dley

 

 

Joseph Lee and the Massachusetts

Civic League in Later Years
By JEFFREY R. BRACKETT, Ph. D.

Dr. Brackett, a member of Mr. Lee's
class at Harvard University, was for-
merly Chairman of the Massachusetts

State Board of Public Welfare.

EE's part in the work of the Civic League in
his later years can be told briefly. But it is
characteristic of him and instructive. The

League had started in order to improve a par-
ticular situation in the machinery of the state
government. The first leaders in the League
were volunteers, a notable group doing unpaid
citizen service. To that growing group, Lee gave
a vision of the need of a continuous service
by citizens for better legislation and administra—
tion. He was actively concerned, at the same
time, in the educational movement for prepar-
ing professional workers for social service.

So, as the years went on, and Lee had to

divide his time and strength among many in-
‘terests of value, he did not give much time to
'the League. He was prompt and painstaking
as chairman of an important committee; he was
always accessible for advice and encourage-
ment; and he radiated the stimulus of a wise
thinker and leader. But he was glad to bring
forward other persons as useful citizen workers
and as professionals. Le‘e saw that both types
‘ were needed, that the professional could be on

the job continuously, that one test of a good
professional was the ability to win and use
volunteers. r

Some of Lee's vision for the Civic League
failed of realization. For instance, he 'wished

‘ the “Town Room” at League headquarters,

with its books and reports, on many aSpects of
civic growth, to be a Mecca, a chosen place
for study and conferences, for local leaders
from all parts of Massachusetts. The fact that
the room is not used as much as he had
planned does not take away the value of his
vision! .

During these last years the membership of
the League has grown several fold over what it
was in its first years. It has accomplished much
in definite ways for better legislation and ad-
ministration in Massachusetts. Its value, per—
haps we may say its necessity, is unquestioned
by informed and thoughtful citizens. One im—
pressive proof that Lee believed in that value,
in that necessity of the League, is his generosity
in money support of it during all these years.
And now his vision and wisdom are shown by
his leaving its support to those who live after
him. For such a civic association can be a suc-
cess only when many citizens rally to its ser-
vice—and if they really rally to serve they
should rise to its support.

~~~

HE passing of Ioseph Lee from his life of seventy-five years adds an illustrious name
to the honor roll of exemplars of American democracy and places his hallmark upon

one of the most distinctive epochs of its social life.
Included in his wide background of culture was the knowledge of the economic

and social history of old and New England; the overwork or enforced idleness of great
numbers of laboring people,- the waste of excessive commercial amusements and the
wants due to lack of recreational facilities; the overgrown fortunes made possible by the
exploitation of child labor, and the regulation of the laissez-faire economy by the body

politics.

Upon this knowledge and his own loyalty to humanity, Joseph Lee based his
decision, on his admission as attorney to the Massachusetts bar fifty years ago, to give
himself to the calling of a “plain social worker,” through the devotion of his life, his

patrimony and his legal practice to developing the philosophy and statesmanship, the
facilities and the management of recreation onanation-wide basis—GRAHAM TAYLOR,

from The Chicago Daily News, August 7, 1937.

550

 

  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 

not giants there were at

I“ least men of large mould,
. nd Joseph Lee was of their
tumber. He was a layman
hose qualifications w e r e

I ike those of an expert. In the
ccurate sense of the term he

tIN those days if there were

e educational value of rec-
reational activities in infan-
cy, childhood, adolescence, and adult life. He
had patiently observed and recorded the prin-
ciples“ applicable to the several stages of hu-
man life. He was a scholar in knowledge and
interpretation, a statesman in matters of public
policy, a propagandist for what he believed to
be sound ideas and measures, a hard fighter
and a generous one, a critic of friend and ene-
my, willing to acknowledge an error, even if it
were one of long standing when the evidence
clearly established that he had been in error.

 My acquaintance with Joseph Lee, while not
so intimate as that of his Boston neighbors and
his colleagues in the Playground Association

nd National Recreation Association, was nev-
trtheless of long duration and close enough to
warrant this attempt at a discriminating tribute.
H did not begin with the creation of the Chari-
ties Publication Committee although he became
a member of that committee when it was cre-

dation of Charities and the Commons, and after
bend a Hand, Jewish Charity and the Charities
Review had already been absorbed in the mag-

azine which is now The Survey. Three years
before this Philip W. Ayres, as director of the

summer school conducted by the Charity Or-
.ganization Society, had assembled a remark-
able body of students, and instructors to match
.them. Five of the lecturers were from Boston.
The subject of play was treated by Joseph Lee.
Paul Kellogg was one of those who listened to
:him as a member of the school. Without con-
sulting the records Paul Kellogg was willing to
"bet a hat" that his first contact with Joseph

ee was at this summer School of Philanthmpy
where in his year as a student, Robert Woods,

Dr. Devine was formerly Editor of
The Survey, Director of the New
York School of Philanthmpy, Pro-
fessor of Social Economy, Columbia
University, and General Secretary

I of the Charity« Organization
‘15 an (mummy on plaY' on ' society of the City of New York.

ated in 1905, a few months before the consoli- :

. . Joseph Lee and The Survey

By EDWARD T. DEVINE

Mrs. Glendower Evans and
Joseph Lee had certainly
brought to the school the salt
and savor of New England.
From that fifth session of the
summer school in 1.902 dates
not only the long and fruitful
association of The Survey
with one of its most stimu-
lating and irrepressible crit-

ics and one of its most loyal
friends in New England, but also Paul Kellogg's

own connection with the magazine of which he
succeeded me as editor. “I am speaking for both
of us in this statement of the impressions which
we gained in our conferences with Joseph Lee
when he came to see us and when we went to-
gether to see him in Boston. We found that
when he took a minority position, as about
Community Chests or birth control- or the re-
striction of immigration—4n the minority some-
times only among social workers—this did not
in the least imply sulking in his tent. He could

differ and still cooperate and he liked to have
others do the same. '

The Survey found Joseph Lee generous in
his financial support,- but he was even more
helpful in his suggestions, his remonstrances
and his general advice. He wrote articles, let-
ters for publication over his signature, and oth-
ers not for publication. His social philosophy
embraced a sturdy individualiSm, a belief in
education, a preference for local initiative and
responsibility over distant bureaucratic plan-
ning. He held that people should have what,
they earned rather than what some official
body thought they needed. To base income on
needs rather than on earnings, might, he con-
ceded, sometimes be good morals, but it was
certainly bad psychology. He dreaded the de-
moralizing effect of doles. In his own field, that
of recreation, he was ready enough to encour-
age municipal, state, and Federal expenditures
in appropriate and tested ways,- just as he
heartily supported public eXpenditures for edu-
cation. Probably he would not have. held out
against guarantee of security in illness, inval-
idity, and old age or against a gradual recogni-

551

552 JOSEPH LEE AND THE SURVEY

tion of the obligation to insure in some way an rection, diversity among individuals, and vo
opportunity to earn a livelihood; but along this untary association are preferred to authority
line he saw dangers. He would have insisted coercion, totalitarianism. He was perfectly c
on caution and on abundant evidence of the home in the atmopshere of a New England tow
bankruptcy of the laissez faire principle before meeting. He was at home also in the broad di¢
consenting to a new deal. cussion of national and international problem:

He gave the whole of his long life to public In other words this precise moment in the his
service. He cherished an‘ideal in which con- tory of these United States is one in which h
servation of character, strengthening of self-di— would have been most useful.

r

For Ioseph Lee's American idealism life was not for the few and the privileged.
It was not worth while unless it could be made worth while for all who were willing to

play their part.

His country was not a success unless it could bring decent living and fair oppor-
tunity to all who had willing hands and active minds. .

He carried the instincts of true Sportsmanship into life itself with the claim that
everyone must have a fair start in the race of life and a fair chance to run it.

But he gave more than good will and money. His unique contribution was a
mind that thought through towards the causes that pull men down; that also reached
out after the things that could best build them up.

He believed in the conquest of poverty; but not through sentimental palliatives or
brainless decrees. He believed that mass poverty could be conquered by reaching down
to the roots of things and dealing with basic causes.

His interest was not only in patching together the pieces of broken lives but in
preventing the things that do the breaking.

He sought not only to cure life's ills, but to make ordinary life worth living when
the ills are cured.

To his mind there appeared to be an unhappy combination of misguided senti-
ment, racial prejudice and commercial greed that was helping to spread mass poverty
from inexhaustible sources in the old world“ over our new land through unrestricted and
inadequately controlled immigration, and with this he contended from the beginning to
the end.

Through the Massachusetts Civic League he helped in countless ways to correct
and improve the laws of his own state and the methods of their execution.

As a director of education on the school board of Boston he gave some of his best
years and the best of his mind in order that public education might be the fitting for life,
which is its true purpose.

Life in the impatient vigor of youth was what especially appealed to him. It
was he who saw most clearly that this youthful life was being needlessly cramped and
driven into unwholesome channels, from lack of the natural and wholesome outlet
afforded by the playgrounds which he instituted.

All over the land these playgrounds are giving healthier and better lives to count-
less numbers. For that alone his country owes him a debt of enduring gratitude.

Whether that debt be remembered or forgotten, his work remains, and he is con-
tent, for such was his nature.———R_ICHARDS M. BRADLEY, Boston, Mass. Reprinted from

The Survey by special permission.

 

 

Joseph Lee as an Educator Knew Him

By CLARK W. HETHERINGTON, Ped. D.

OSEPH LEE's characteristics were expressed

not only by his social service and long head-
ship of the National Recreation Association
but by qualities of intellect and character which
freed him from prejudices that enslaved the
minds of educators and parents in their rela-
tions with children and youth.

The proof is in his book "Play in Education”
published in 1915.

He deliberately and avowedly adopted the
word play and the study of play as a scientific
method in the interpretation of child nature. He
identified play with child nature. Arguments by
academic scholars about the validity of details
in the descriptions of certain age traits of chil-
dren and the terms used to name them may be
dismissed as immaterial in this discussion. The
chief significance of that book was not in the
data presented but in the attitudes and method
in observation and inference in the study of
children and of-play. '

The attitude and the method wrenched Lee
loose from the most deep-seated and disastrous
social prejudice in the relations of adults with
children. Deep in the social mind was fixed the
attitude that play was an activity of little worth
and if tolerated at all only as a means of "let-
ting off steam." It was identified with "fooling"
and in the school a "product of the imps.” This
attitude towards play,.as a survival of the worst
aspects of Puritanism, scholasticism and ascet-
iscism, was so powerful and subtle in influence
in American folk beliefs that sociologists, prac-
tical social workers and educators failed to
recognize and define it as a problem, trace its
social origins and analyze its effects on the
lives of young peOple—hence the neglect of
play. the wastage of child life, the ignorance of
the source of bad habits, delinquency, crime.

In the early years of the "playground" move-
ment begun by the Association in 1905, leaders

in education in angry antagonism to any dis—
cussion of play as an educational force in-
sisted eloquently that our need was more
"blood and iron” in education, more "real
work," more “discipline” in attention to serious
duties. Contempt for play was the common atti-
tude of earnest peOple. Seriousness in social
problems was usually correlated with disre-
spect for play. Only within the last ten years
have educators begun to think in terms of a
curriculum of activities. Few even yet dare face
their contemporaries in scholarship and empha-
size the play aspect of each division of that
curriculum or interpret child nature in terms of

plaY.

Lee, in his attitude and method of thinking,
soared above all these prejudices. He asserted
the exact opposite of the traditional beliefs. In
thinking about attitudes towards children and
play he was a pioneer along with Froebel and
George Iohnson. He advocated a method of
observation and inference which in other fields
would be called scientific.

Further he proved the superiority of his intel-
lect and character by his attitude and method.
Clear thinking depends on the search for and
choice of a word to name a meaning. Lee him-
self in his introduction referred to his dislike
of the word play but insisted there was no other
word to explain child nature and he had the

courage to choose it.

Again, superiority in thinking is in the ability
to see or differentiate a problem as a.~problem,
define it, and by the energy:- of the creative
imagination fofmulatew an. hypothesis about it
which deductive analysis and reference to facts
will prove valid. Lee gave proof of that superi-
ority. He was a pioneer in what is still a poorly
developed, but an exceedingly difficult and
from the standpoint of child welfare a most pro-
foundly significant phase of science.

553

 

As Seen by a Recreation Executive

By ERNST HERMAN N

Superintendent of Playgrounds, Newton, Massachussetts

finest interpretation, because, in his practical
nd common-sense way, he taught our country
he full meaning of Froebel's philosophy that
he plays of children are the germinal leaves

1. later life and that through his play the child
!
l

JOSEPH LEE had ideas. He gave Play its

ets his first grip on moral relations.

In "Who's Who” we find him recorded as
“Joseph Lee, social worker.” What a debt of
ratitude America owes to the social worker,
articularly of the type of a generation ago

hich Joseph Lee represented—a man with a

onderful family background, a splendid edu-
ation in our oldest university, holding many
egrees, a man of great wealth, devoting his
‘, hole life, all his thoughts and energies and

l is fortune in the interest of his fellow citizens.

It was my good fortune when I first came to
his' country in 1893 to meet many such charac-
ers and to get in personal touch with several

4. the outstanding ones. For some time I could
ot understand these people. In my experience
i had never met such people. When I met
oseph Lee I was already considering myself
'- professional, at least in Health and Physical
ducation, and, on account of my childhood
xperiences, I considered myself a professional
'n Play and Recreation. My first impressions
and first impressions are never dependable) I
3 ould not understand. I could not understand

   
  

| CW Joseph Lee could talk and move with the
uthority with which he did. I thought that he

as a rank amateur, but it was not long before
OI recognized the soul of the man, his enthu-
siasm in giving his all, his keen sense of social

and educational values, his perseverance and '
tenacity, and I soon came to admire and to fol- '

low many of his ideas. What probably influ-
enced me greatly was the experience I had in
' observing him as he personally directed one
of the first playgrounds in the early years of
this century ———- the Columbus Avenue Play-

‘ ground in Boston. To me he was, even then, a
“a

C

i5

tall, awkward-looking, untrained leader of ac-
tivities, but to see his joy and his enthusiasm
in getting the boys and girls off the streets and
his joy in seeing the playground used and the
attendance growing, was an experience I have
never forgotten.

His interests in social affairs were many, of
course, but his greatest work, to my mind, was
done in the interest of children, in the interest
of education in general, in juvenile problems,
in housing, in sanitation and in municipal af-
fairs generally. Personally, I have always
looked upon him, and in my own mind called
him "a progressive Puritan," because he ap-
plied his old American virtues to the social

problems as they appeared with the rapid
growth of American cities due to the influx of
many foreign races.

Much has been written ' and more will be
written about this leader of our Play Movement
in America, and I cannot, in the small space
given me, do full justice to a description of the
ways in which Joseph Lee has left a better
world behind him for American children, par-
ticularly for city children and youth. However,
there is one lesson which his life has given us
recreation executives and others engaged in
Play and Recreation. It is easy for us Who have
had formal education for this work to become
professionalized and routined and dogmatic.
What I got from Joseph Lee and others associa-
ted with him, particularly when he was at his
best at our national conventions, was his tre—
mendous enthusiasm. For many years this en-
thusiasm of his seemed only the Spirit of an
amateur "riding his hobby," but after a time I
became convinced that I could not go far unless
I could retain in my own work this enthusiasm
which the men with hobbies have in such a
pronounced way and which the many social
workers have always had. I wish, therefore,
to urge all our people engaged professionally
in Play and Recreation to remember Joseph

555

556 AS SEEN BY A RECREATION EXECUTIVE

Lee*-to emulate him, and never to forget that
interest is the great educator and greatest mo-
tivator ’we have. It is our responsibility to stimu-
late constantly our interest in our work and to
retain this interest in it. If we are truly inter-
ested, we cannot help but be enthusiastic.
Enthusiasm has the buoyancy of youth to which
youth naturally responds. Without genuine in-
terest and enthusiasm we are but poor leaders.
Children and young peeple, and adults, too,
naturally gravitate towards personalities which

radiate interest and enthusiasm of the caliber
which Ioseph Lee had. 

We must remember, too, that when the adult
"rides his hobby” he is not far different from
children and youth who naturally play hard
when they play and whose interest and enthu-
siasm at the time of indulgence in a hobby is
very high, and we must see to it that this indul-
gence remains true play and recreation. To
my mind it was for this reason that Joseph Lee
could never quite subscribe to the attitude of
so many of our physical educators when they
emphasized the "big-muscle" activities, be-
cause the emphasis of physical health was not
to him so important as the effect of an activity
on mental health, character and social atti-
tudes. There is no doubt in my mind that
his criticism, although given constructively,
was well deserved, and that physical educa-
tion is better today than it has ever been be-

all other education.‘

I wish that everyone engaged in the admin
istration of physical education and recreatio
had on his desk Ioseph Lee's book “Constru
tive and Preventive PhilanthrOpy,” and als
his great work "Play in Education.” Since w
have become a very sizeable profession

'group, and since the group leaders in Play an

Recreation will continue to grow, let us not to
get that we must know more about growth an
development of hu‘man nature and of child n
ture. What an amount of reading and stud
and personal contacts Ioseph Lee must h '
had in his growing years to understand t

child as he did!

When he wrote "the boy without ’a pla 1
ground is father to the man without a job an
the boy with a bad playground is apt to o
father to a man with a job that had better b
undone,” he started the elimination of slum
and ugly places in our man-made cities, an
let in the sunlight and the grass and flower I
And with that he brought peace and happines
into the lives of millions of American childre 1
who were denied the privilege of God's countr *
which his forefathers had enjoyed. I '

It is for us to bear in mind constantly th
ideas and ideals of Ioseph Lee and to advaric
them in our work and in our lives. In this wa ' l
we shall be helping to. build for‘ Ioseph Lee 1 4 '
perpetual and living memorial. '

cause of this. I believe that it even influence !
I
h
l

Games

Joseph Lee in 1921 suggested that the twelve games which follow be pushed in
the cities throughout the country, and asked for comments as to others to be included:

(1) HOp Scotch: Girls especially, 6-11; (2 Hill Dill: Children 6—11 and boys and girls
over 14,- (3) Three Deep: Everybody from 8 to 50 plus; (4) I Spy: Everybody from 8-25

except boys (alone) over 14,- (5) Prisoner's Base: Everybody from 8-25 except boys (alone)

over 14; (6) Indoor Ball: Everybody 8-50 plus,- (7) Volley Ball: Everybody 8-50 plus,- (8) 'I
Field Hockey: Boys or girls separately, 8-40 plus; (9) Looby Loo, (10) Farmer in the Dell
and (11) Roman Soldiers: Everybody under 8 or over 25; (12) Ring Toss: Everybody.

A Few Impressions

1y a Settlement Worker

IELLIE M. PECK
$cretary, National Federation of Settlements

 

. HE settlement movement and the recreation
i movement were young and grew up to—
gether. In Boston the two movements met and
i merged in the persons of Joseph Lee and Robert
(' Woods. Mr. Lee often described how he and
Mr. Woods planned out their public campaigns
walking back and forth between Mount Vernon
Street and the South End, accompanying each
other home, sometimes walking the whole night

‘ through.

I

' Mr. Lee's first playground experiment was
started in Mr. Wood's South End, and the early
playground movement had the enthusiastic
support of settlement workers. The Massachu-
setts Civic League, founded by Mr. Lee, was
hailed by Mr. Woods as a way of uniting the
aroused citizens of the rural areas and the city
istricts through local improvement societies
'nto an effective body for social and civic

in storm.

The efforts of Boston settlement workers for
social legislation had the support of Mr. Lee
nd the Civic League. Only in the campaign
for increasing compulsory school attendance
rom fourteen to sixteen years did Mr. Lee rebel.
He disliked keeping children in classrooms
I hen he knew that for some types physical
abor was the only form of activity that seemed
J eal to them. But Mr. Lee and Mr. Woods both

reed that increased vocational training must

0 hand in hand with raising the school age.
Mr. Lee and Mr. Woods were associated in
War Camp Community Service and the Boston
settlements offered the first training courses for
workers in army centers in 1918, in cooperation
with the Playground and Recreation Associa—
tion, now the National Recreation Association.

' Mr. Lee's "Play in Education” has been
Widely acclaimed the best book so far written

!

t

I
I

on the influence of play on life. Mr. Lee's pecu-
liar contribution to the recreation movement,
beyond leadership in organization, was the
compelling quality of his personality. He bore
living testimony to the balance, the inner re-

° serves of physical and emotional force to be

gained from outdoor life, in opportunities for
Spontaneous play and to the need of men for
beauty and friendliness.

But it was Joseph Lee, as an exponent of
his own belief in the joy of outdoor life, of
games (prisoner's base and the others). the long
walks and talks on Sundays at Cohasset, that
this writer recalls most gratefully. I remember,
too, the Boston Social Union meeting when, in
reviewing a book on the values of association
by one of the forerunners of the group work
philosophy, life organized through interacting
groups was discussed. Mr. Lee jumped up to
say that it made him want to go away and
"rest his face,” and he held forth on the joys
of being alone, of solitary reading, walking

and reflection.

Mr. Lee loved the drama and the movies.
All the settlement people were invited to tea to
meet Eva Le Gallienne when she came to Bos-
ton, and he encouraged the good amateur com-
panies. He got great pleasure from the movies
and eagerly invited his younger friends to go

with him.

Christmas Eve on Beacon Hill meant seeing
Mr. Lee, to me as to many people—school-
teachers, associates of the years he served on

' the school committee, social workers, all sorts

of people, as well as the friends of his children.
Mr. Lee was ageless in his relationships and
in his enjoyment of people and their enjoyment

of him.

I am everlastingly grateful for the joy and
meaning, the spontaneity and the understand—'
ing of men, women and children which Joseph
Lee brought to me personally and to the recrea-

tion movement.
557

558 A FEW IMPRESSIONS

By a Staff Member,
National Recreation Association

ABBIE CONDIT

HE members of the Board of Directors of the

National Recreation Association have com-
pleted a long business meeting. Relaxed and
in a happy mood, they are sitting around the
luncheon table. With them are a number of
staff members, there, most of them, to give
first-hand information to the Board of Directors
regarding their work.

At the head of the table sits Ioseph Lee. His
responsibility it is to introduce informally the

staff members and guide the discussion. This,

he does in his inimitable way, interrupting from
time to time with remarks which give just the
needed "punch" to drive home a point, recall-
ing homely incidents to illustrate statements
made or taking us into the realm of philosophi-
cal thinking in terms so simple and language
so whimsical that only afterward do we realize
how profound have been his pronouncements.

Then suddenly a change in mood, and Board
members and staff workers are in gales of

laughter as Mr. Lee wittily challenges state-
ments made or holds up situations to the kind-
liest of ridicule.

This is the Ioseph Lee we staff members
remember most vividly. We think, too, of the
Ioseph Lee of the Recreation Congresses, pre-
siding over meetings or holding brief but unfor-
gettable conversations with us between meet-
ings. How, we would wonder afterward, could
Socrates and Plato have strayed into conversa-
tions on the weather or the Congress program?
What possible connection was there between
politics and movie stars, philosophy and motor
boats? But we had, we found, as we thought
it over later, discussed them all in these brief

moments, and it was quite logical and right r

and altogether delightful!

Moving pictures were one of Mr. Lee's favor-
ite forms of recreation. With him we have
solemnly speculated as to whether a certain
actor's luxuriant hair was really his own, or
whether another star's feet were as large as
.pOpularly reported!

We discovered Mr. Lee's love of boats one
summer while working with him on a publica-
tion at Cohasset. In the midst of a philos0phical

(Continued on page 583)

Joseph Lee andgMusic

By ARCHIBALD T. DAVISON, Ph. D.

Professor of Choral Music
Harvard University

R. LEE's understanding of what compl

human happiness means was rem
able for its breadth. He knew that a healt
body and opportunity and place to exercise
are not enough; that even the training of t
mind for the proper enjoyment of leisure m
still leave an important corner of life unfill
He was persuaded that the emotional part
man's nature must be profitably stimulated a
in music he recognized the ideal means
that end.

But his enthusiasm for music was not circu
scribed by the prejudice and short-sightedn
which have too often characterized the attitu
of those _who have employed it as “a soc
agent. Mr. Lee realized that to view mu
purely as a recreation, to encourage peo
merely to get fun out of it, was to lose sight
its constructive power as a spiritual forcef
knew at first hand the melancholy history
our war-time uses of music and I have mo
than once heard him express irritation over t
assumption that the average man or worn
could not be interested in singing first cl
musical works.

Although he did not profess to have any de
understanding of the art, he unreserv ‘
championed any cause that offered an opp
tunity to the amateur to have a part in t
practice of good musical literature. It was 0
natural, then, that he should have been willi -;
to serve with a small group of advisors to t 3
Harvard Glee Club in the period when it w
struggling against powerful odds to establi .
a high standard in its programs, and that
should have regularly attended the conce
of the Glee Club and the Radcliffe Choral ‘
ciety. His pleasure in these programs was --
but what he found most impressive was th
educational and social significance, the in
lectual, emotional, and spiritual advantages
such an enterprise, and on these he was ne
tired of dwelling. That large groups of peo
whose interest in music was only inciden I,
should give enough of their time to learn gr
choral works he found impressive in the high -
degree. : 

Those who believe that the only music wo t
encouraging is good music will always 0‘
grateful to Mr. Lee for his faith in the capac t
of all men to appreciate the best. May his a ‘
lightened spirit animate those who undert r
to carry on his leadership. I

t:

  
   
       

r
t
l

t

.
i I
t

t

   
  
  
   

HAT is it that makes
some men bandits
an d others saints?
here did the first boost
me from that moved no-
1e and ignoble men in
e particular direction that
ade them great or use-
ss? Joseph Lee's life poses
‘ is query.

. Here was a rich, young,
highly Bostonized Harvard
athlete, basking in social prestige. Why didn't
he go the pace, keep up with the other blades,
marry a fashionable heiress, go in for horse
racing or art collecting, and live like a gentle-
man in a private park surrounded by a high,
Spiked iron fence? I don't know. I didn't meet
him until he had Written that masterpiece, "Play
1 Education," and had become a national

okesman for the gospel of play. I suppose
e must have met early in life an incandes-
nt socialized person who set him on fire. I
so suppose (no, I know) that he was unself-
nscious, not interested in himself as much as
other people. He had intellectual curiosity.

could not be" satisfied with a racing stable

a collection of inanimate paintings. He
uldn't even be satisfied with a fine library,
cause he liked action. He had an inner com-
ulsion to do something about something, es-
cially if that something was injustice or de-

privation.

   
  
    
  
 

'b Constructive imagination is one of the rarest

faculties—to see things as they might be, as
get! should be, as they could be, as they must
i , if progress is to occur. If one hundred mil-
1 n Americans without constructive imagina-
t n were given a round-the-world_ cruise the
.dDuntry would be just the same when they
‘ cilme back. If the few hundreds of thousands
-With constructive imagination were taken on a
‘Vtorld cruise there would be a let-down, almost
a stoppage. Thousands see what is wrong for
one who makes a constructive suggestion for
setting it right. Ioseph Lee had constructive

.2 imagination. After he had backed his vision

By OTTO T. MALLERY

As a member for many years of the
Board of Directors of the National
Recreation Association, Mr. Mallery
was long associated with Mr. Lee in
the development of the recreation
movement nationally. He is also the
president of the Playground and Rec-
reation Association of Philadelphia.

ooking Backward over I oseph Lee's Life

w i t h money, persistence,
and persuasion, the United
States was no longer the
same. Where graveyards
had been children were
playing.

If you who read this were
born after the automobile
had altered the tenor of
American life it will be dif-
ficult for you to imagine
how differently people lived
in the pre-auto era. It will be equally difficult
for you to imagine how differently children
lived in the cities before the playground move-
ment and Joseph Lee got under way thirty or
forty years ago.

Take my case. As a child I lived in the center
of Philadelphia and played in an alley, for-
tunately a broad and dead-end alley. We
tackled one another at football on cobblestones
but that sport was a bit too robust even for the
hardiest. We had sticks about three inches long
which we flipped off the ground and hit with
a batlike stick as if it were a ball. This game
was substituted for a ball game because balls
broke windows. However, we broke windows
anyhow and on purpose. We found the glass
on lamp posts very attractive. We never saw
a park or skating or skiing in the winter time.
We were indoors from November to April in-
cluding week-ends. At school disgruntled we
exercised Spasmodically in a dull gymnasium.
Our private school had the use of an inacces-
sible athletic field one afternoon a week. Only
the natural athlete could be bothered to go to it.
With this background and the resulting poor
use of our leisure time it is not surprising that
the next forty years showed my schoolmates
to have a low average vitality. If this was true
of the boys of the typical city private school
how much more was it true on the average for
the children in the public school.

Contrast this situation with the better play
opportunities of the average child in hundreds
of cities in the United States today. He is born

into a different environment because of the
(Continued on page 583)

559

560

Joe Lee was unique in many respects.
I mention a few:

He had a wonderful faculty of helping people without letting
anyone know about it.

He was original in thought and inventive in action but suc-
ceeded in giving the credit for their results to others.

He was a philanthropist but no stranger would suspect it. He ’
often wore a brilliant red tie.

His manner would change from severe to humorous in a sec-
ond but your final impression was that of a man with a light

touch, a bit of sarcasm, a keen sense of humor: at bottom
terribly in earnest.

A man of unlimited property he swapped off a large part of

it for the satisfaction of having enriched the lives of the un-
privileged.

A man of aristocratic descent he was an unmitigated demo-
crat and believer in the common people.

He was a magician, for he could charm a greenback out of -
you in such a way that you did not miss it.

He was a friend so loyal that he could tell you the full truth
of what you were and still hold your affection.

The Right Reverend WILLIAM LAWRENCE, D. D.,
Retired Bishop of Massachusetts.

 

HEATER than anything
Ioseph Lee ever said or
wrote was the rich person-

ality of the man. His character
was so many sided that it is difficult to select
any single aSpect as predominant, but the
quality which most interested me was his rare
, sense of humor. It was so much a part of him,
i flowing through his every conversation and
,1 speech, never extraneous, but rather an attitude
\ toward life.

“The baby's crying is a social function,” he
‘ once remarked to our class at Harvard Univer-
t sity in 1916. "Language comes from the tre-
mendous demand for it, the craving for com-
munication. The thing the baby wants is com-
munion, not desire for useful information. But
i there can be too much social. At Christmas the
child is usually cross. It gets mental indigestion
: from too many things. It can't assimilate them,
so the least thing it can do is to break toys up

after Christmas."

' In describing to our class every person's
heed for a den for escape, Mr. Lee related an
‘ incident concerning William Iames at a recep-
tion. Mrs. Iames was in one room and James in
another. Joining his wife, Mr. Iames burst out,
., "Say, it's hell in there." He was the picture of a
1 man with a horrible face on. His wife asked
. what was the trouble. Mr. Iames replied,
“I'm resting my face."

"The materialist way of studying human be—
ings is all wrong," Ioseph Lee declared at an-
other session. "You will not come to know
Shakespeare by that method, although you
spend fifteen billion years seeking to find the
kind of marks he made after eating beef and
afte r eating onions.
We've got to consider
the purposes inside the
human."

It was during this same
Year, 1916, that our Com-
mittee on Social Legisla-
tion from the Boston So-
cial Union went with Mr.
Lee to the old State
House at Boston to speak

   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  

I‘

I

By TAM DEERING

Director of Recreation
Cincinnati, Ohio

Mr. Deering states he has related these per-
sonal contacts in the hope that others may
be encouraged to disclose similar experi-
ences, and especially to report letters and
statements from him. "Those who were
privileged in having close-ups of Mr. Lee
should present them to the National Office.
They are indispensable if someone is to 4-
do a full portrait of this man whose per-
sonality, character and vision outweighed
a vast monetary endowment."

The Gentle Humor of Joseph Lee

before a legislative committee on
the Bill for Physical Education.
There, as usual, his delightful
humor came to the fore. He de-
clared that "gymnastics should be classed as
dentistry or orthOpedics, as having a surgical
and corrective, rather than an educational
effect." Always he stood for play as the means
to "total enlistment of all the powers of the in-
dividual,” "growth from the center out.” "Mere
gymnastics is a school of half-heartedness,” he
declared, "conducting the habit of action that
starts halfway to the surface instead of from
the depth. There must be an object; there must
be interest; there must be exhilaration."

Mr. Lee was a pioneer worker for state legis-
lation providing for physical education in the
schools. Nevertheless, he recognized physical
education as only a phase of education and as
only a phase of recreation.

One time our Iamaica Plain neighborhood
house invited Ioseph Lee as Chairman of the
Boston School Committee to address a neigh-
borhood meeting. He utilized the Opportunity
to interpret education as being "concerned with
the promotion of growth, including teaching
both in the school and on the playground."
Here, again, as on every occasion that I have
heard him speak, he clothed his presentation of
deep truth with the gentle, kindly humor with
which he viewed peOple and life. Having spent
most of his life in public work, and having
served for years as an elected official, he had
been subjected to the abuse which is one of
the perquisites of office in Boston as elsewhere,
yet his experience never embittered him. And
where has the sound attitude for a public offi-
cial been set forth more
delightfully th a n he
phrased it on this occa-
sion -—- "Nobody will sur-
vive in public work who
minds what he is called.
I do not mean such affec-
tionate epithets as fool or
anarchist, but the more
grim and savage desig-
nations of worthy or well-

561

562 THE GENTLE HUMOR OF JOSEPH LEE

meaning. I can't say that I have ever been
called an uplifter. Even the standpatters are
not mean enough for that. The thing to remem-
ber about such designations is that they are
not expressions of opinion, but merely cries of
pain, an encouraging symptom that you are
getting somewhere."

"For satisfaction, there is the same satisfac-
tion that there is in all true work, trying to do
something and once in a long time getting a
little of it done. There is besides, as in art or
music or discovery, in any of the real things,
the feeling that the work is bigger than you are,
that you and your private interests are insigni-
ficant, which is the first requisite of life and

happiness."

Two years later when I was called quite un-
expectedly to organize community service in
Seattle, Washington, it was my remembrance
of Mr. Lee's emphasis on the importance of
play in the home that led to our inaugurating
the first "Home Play Week” in America. How
could one do otherwise whose imagination
had been stirred by Lee's words, "I wish the
playground might somehownteach parents the
importance of receptivity to the children's sto-
ries of their games and their adventures. When
a boy comes in with his feet muddy and trou-
sers torn, his hair standing on end and a gob
of mud on his nose, it may require some self-
restraint on your part, especially if you are
sensitive about your parlor furniture, not to
open on him about his personal appearance;
but whatever it costs it will be worth your while
to exercise such self-restraint. If you care at all
about-your children's confidence, do not, when
he starts with snapping eyes to tell you how he
got Bugsby out at first, or what a corking time
he had chasing the muskrat, respond with "Yes,
but won't you first go up and wash your
hands?” or, "Where did you get your boots
in that fearful condition?" or, "What have you
been doing with your trousers?" If you, on
mature deliberation, think that clean hands and
boots and trousers, n0w on the instant, instead
of ten minutes hence, are of more importance
to you than a confidential relation with your
children, it makes little difference at what point
your interruption comes. But that is the choice
you must make."

Seven years later, in 1927, Lee furnished the
best statement of the social philosophy under-

 
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
    
 

lying the "Save the Beaches" movement. Th 1
humor, insight and ruggedness so characteri
tic of Joseph Lee, the man, play through th
words and phrasing used by him on this occ
sion. In a letter to Howard Braucher on Jun
14, 1927, he said, "This action of Deering'
raises an awfully interesting question. In Ma
sachusetts there is often a right, confined I thin
to certain persons, to go to the beach to g
sand and seaweed. At Nahant, Massachusett
there is an old right of way and a similar 0
in Newport, R. 1., running between the palac
and the tOps of the cliffs, where the lord of t
castle must suffer the common citizen to co
betwixt the wind and his nobility."

On the same day he wrote to me, “I don
know exactly how to formulate the principl
but the idea behind it is that there are certa'
pieces of ground from which everybody ca
reap a crop, and one man's harvest, though
may somewhat lessen the others, does not d
stroy it. 'Everybody ought to have a right t
reach the ocean, the great ponds and lake
and so far as possible, the rivers in their ow
neighborhoods. The right was defined by :
lawyer friend of mine whom I asked about
some years ago, as the right of bathing, boa
ing and skating, of falling in and emptying 0
your boots on the bank. The right of looking 0
it, or from it, is even more important, and shoul
also be secured.”

Two years later, in 1929, he provided Mr
Deering and myself with a most exciting a
venture. In writing the introduction to Mr
Deering's book on "The Creative Home,” h
made penciled notes on nearly every pag
explaining that these were "For you to o‘ I
such attention to as you think they deserve.
And in addition he sent on to her his pencile
preliminary draft of his own introduction wit I
its innumerable changes and corrections.

Where in the manuscript Mrs. Deering use
the word "self-expression” he interlined, "Dr '
Charles Eliot once told me that this is a horribl
expression. It is hard to avoid. In a most i »
portant sense it is true: the trouble is that '
suggests egotism—the very opposite of art. The
artist kills himself for art,- the god takes him by
the ear and he is lucky if he gets out alive. lit
is adoration—impersonal, following somethin '
bigger than yourself. The Greeks, the artisti -
nation, knew. The deuce of it is that there ofte ,

(Continued on page 584) '1

l

  

’[Ek of play as a neces-

ROMINENT men and women—leaders in
the national social work of today, as they
have watched the work which the Play-
ound and Recreation Association of America
doing under the leadership of Joseph Lee,
ve said: it is too bad that such splendid en-
gy and enthusiasm should be given to the
lay movement when other more fundamental
d more important social movements are re-
iving so much less attention than they de-
Qarve.

When asked what questions are more funda-
mental—then the difference of opinion shows
itself. One replies, work with needy families in
their homes, and suggests that the energy now
going into the playmovement ought to be ex-
pended in the charity organization field.

Another states that the two great problems

re the fight with disease, and education. Then
question my friend as to what he means by

e general term education, and I find that he

ants every man educated so that he will com-

and better wages.

Another friend tells me that the labor move-

ent is far more fundamental than the play

ovement—that our future depends upon work-

g out the right relations between labor and

pital. "It is always a regret to me that you
:e not working on the labor problem.” Yet
another friend considers the great problem to
be the production of more com per acre, the
production of a larger return per unit of labor
employed.

"* I am personally interested in each of these

movements. I would not minimize the impor—

tgmce of any of them, for they are all funda-
ental. My quarrel with these friends is not in

i

I

  
  
   
 

eir emphasis on these things but in their de-
al of an equally fundamental place to play.

- Are they right in thinking of play as a luxury,

for are those right who

I have known no other
missionary m o v e m e n t
commanding greater and
m o r e complete loyaltY

One of the great contributions made by
Joseph Lee not only to the recreation
movement but to the field of education
was his book “Play in Education." In

The Survey, November'l3, 1915,
there appeared a review of this book,

Play in Education

from those who have had intimate touch with
it. Few, however, have had this intimate touch.
That which is simple, easy, nearby, does not
seem of great importance. However, just as
steam, so simple a thing as to be overlooked,
has revolutionized modern manufacturing, so
many who have thought most in terms not of
things but of men report that in play—simple
play—lies a force sufficiently powerful in its
action on the inner life of men to be one of
man's most powerful allies in producing a civ-
ilization.

The play movement has needed a strong
statement of what play is, of the part it has in
developing the normal child, of what the denial
of play means in the indiVidual life and in the
community life. The few individuals today who
have time to think are asking the question,
What must a man do to live a life? What kind
of world must be created if all men are to live,
not merely exist?

The book which Joseph-Lee has given us is
a book on the making of a life, though he calls
it "Play in Education." Now we have a book—-
strong, deep, rich in human experience—with
a vein of humor running through it, readable—
a book you cannot read without thinking,
which can be placed in the hands of those who
are willing to think on fundamental questions.
Those who have a different philosophy of life
can here pause and face again the eternal
question as to what 'is true and what makes
for progress. .

Much of our present-day social philosophy
is founded on the theory that the new basis of
civilization is a full soup-kettle, or that it is fields
which produce hundreds of bushels of grain per
acre, or on general laws which shall create a
machinery which shall automatically produce ‘7-
the civilization we have thus far failed to
achieve. Joseph Lee in his
book goes back of all ma-
chinery, back of all mate-
rial problems, to the old
problem th at interested
Plato, Iesus, Froebel: how
to produce men who shall

563

564 PLAY IN EDUCATION

live, men alert, active, with will power, with
personality——men whose lives shall have a ring
to them, men who shall be missed when they
die. The civilization with which he is concerned
is not measured in terms of the billions of goods
exported, nor even in terms of wonderful build-
ings and boulevards. This civilization is a civi-

lization in which man shall be supreme —- a
master, not a slave of what he has himself pro-

duced,—no treadmill existence in this new civi-
lization. Once let all men live and the material
basis of civilization will care for itself. Raphael
did not paint the Sistine Madonna because he
had surplus paint, but because he had life
within him which must express itself. The per-
manent wealth of the world is all the product of
the urge for vital living, preserved in the ~m'en
who gave that wealth its immortal form.

Those who know Mr. Lee know how hard he
tries always to keep people from suspecting
the extent of his genius, his culture, his wide
reading, his knowledge of art, natural history,
human nature, the world—the depths of poetry
and religion which underlie all his life and
writing. But he is rarely successful: and all the
rich experience of his life thought, dreams, has
been drawn upon at will, apparently without
effort, to illustrate the principles of play.

I do not know what place this book will
finally have in the list of the books of the proph-
ets, but to me it is the greatest contribution Mr.
Lee has yet made to the play movement. I have
placed "Play in Education” on the shelf side by
side with the books of Froebel, with Jane
Addams' "Spirit of Youth” and the "City
Streets” nearby. It is not a book to read once
but one to turn back to, a book to be read over

and over.

The book will interest those who have chil-
dren of their own, or wish they had children, or
find pleasure in the laughter of children, or
were once children themselves, or still desire
to retain throughout life something of the child
spirit, or believe that the world will not lose if
the middle-aged and the aged retain the fresh-
ness and the enthusiasm which goes with a

child heart.

Play is the most serious business of life. It is
play that brings into existence the greater per-
sonality of the child and of the adult. Growth

   
   
 
 
   
  
    
 
   
   
   
  
  

is through joyous action. Without play a chil '
does not grow to be a complete man.

~

"Anybody who will make prisoner's ba
again the fashion in any city where it has di
out, and so make a playground of every stre
not too much given over to the intruding int
ests of traffic, will be a benefactor to all '
future generations, and earn the monument
one who has made two children grow whe
one tried to grow before. The difficulty of t
task as well as its beneficence will merit su
canonization.

 

"Pitching for the home team brings out
power that was not there, that existed only
the boy's heart and in the heart of the tea
he. represents. The play purpose exalts to i -
own level. The child throws himself into h
game up to the very limits of his courage a
perseverance—beyond the limits hitherto s
for the game is itself the very act of growth.
follows the ball each day further into the une
plored regions of potential character, a
comes back each evening a larger moral bei
than he set forth. His whole nature is train
in this discipline, run into the mold that natu
has therein prescribed.

   
 
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
    
  

"Specialization contributes to the fullness
membership because through it the team mak
its full claim on the individual. In intrustin
him with one especial service, it stakes its su
cess upon his adequacy, subjects him to the fu}
current of its purpose. If shortstop does not fiel
the ball when it comes his way, if first bas
does not catch it when it is thrown to him,
will not get fielded or will not be caught. In h
own especial office each player is the team, a
there is of it at that point.

"In general the boy's team-sense should b
taken at its most exalted moment, before it ha
hardened down into exclusiveness or incap
city for generous appreciation of outsiders; an
at this point there should be injected into it th
idea that a narrow loyalty is disloyalty to th
very spirit of which true loyalty consists—tha
taking the gang as final means disloyalty td
the school; that exclusive devotion to the schoo
means disloyalty to the college, and that the
graduates of a college who, when placed i151
responsible business office, give preference to;
their fellow-graduates, are disloyal not merely:

   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

their employer but to the college itself by
entifying it with such disloyalty. In short, our
oys and girls must be taught Mr. Royce's spirit
f loyalty to loyalty, including that of your
pponents.

"I wish we had the Scotch word lealu—loyal
nd happy—*the noblest word I think in any

nguage. The Land o' the Leal, the true Val-
alla, home of the happy warriors of all nations
nd of all faiths, the land where true foemen
eet, and see that each was working for the
ne true cause: that is the heaven that is worth
. ttaining, and such is the loyalty we must learn
teach.”

In work, if you eliminate the play element
of loyalty, the team sense, the instinct to make

good, to be somebody as a member of the
society to which he happens to belong-#then
the desiccated remainder of hunger-driven toil
has lost all that gave it nobility.

O

“Surrender to something greater than one's
self is the essence of all life. The egoist inevi-
lably shrivels in mind as in soul: and if his

ody, being tough and well-fed, survives, it is

ther as an encumbrance than as an instru-
ent of life. Subordination is the first lesson in

e art of living. It is when you lose yourself
in the game, begin to feel that the work is big-

er than you are, that full life possesses you, or
Eat true growth takes place." r

I The efficient man is he who is efficient in
.aving his own life, who can effectively trans-

late his soul into action. It makes no difference
to you how far you go if you leave your heart
behind: in that case you may as well turn back
and start again. What counts is not how far
you travel, but how far you carry your ideal.
The rest is merely the squirrel in the cage—
‘lrnotion, perhaps very hot and strenuous, but
without progress. And rhythm is the method of
the soul's progression, the natural manner—not
lndeed the ruling motive, but the gait and the
habit—of the human spirit, its way of proceed-
ing toward its end.

"It was in the poems of Schiller and the sym-
phonies of Beethoven that German nationality
was achieved. . . . A friend of mine only yes-
terday heard a German say, after listening to
one of their civic choruses, 'Germany will never
be conquered while Germans sing like that.’

!

PLAY IN EDUCATION 565

"The service of all our social institutions——
history, public buildings, monuments, flag, pa-
triotic song and ritual—is to clothe this unseen
body of the state, give it reality to us and give
us faith in its reality.

"The power of corporate membership is the
greatest spiritual power there is. It gives to an
individual the voice and authority of a people's
soul, gives the patriot a purpose transcending
his individual existence, so that his private
fortune, even his life or death, become to him of
secondary importance. He enters the orbit of
a vaster personality and moves with the power
and serenity of a secular force.

"Am I claiming too much for a mere childish
game? Not when we realize that this game is
the outcropping in the growing mind of an in-
stinct without which there would not have been
any child at all, or any human race for him
to grow upon. What the child, in the ring game,
acquires is a beginning only, a little bud, but
the parent of a great branch. Except as he is
member, citizen, the child will lack the chief
basis of morality. He will scarce be human, will
miss the most precious part of his inheritance.

“The end of the apple tree, from our point of
View, is apples. But there is no use talking
apples to it in the spring. If you can protect its
buds from frost and its leaves from caterpillars
or can supply it better diet for its roots, it will be
grateful to you. And however little the bud or
leaf or root may look like apples to you, be sure
that the tree knows the way and the time and
that your best contribution is in assisting na-
ture on the path she has marked out. Timeli-

ness, as Emerson said, is the lesson of the gar-
den, and it would be a blessed thing if we

would apply this lesson to plants whose growth
is more important than that even of roses or
potatoes. '

“Pain and hunger, hard taskmasters to all
living things, are in this respect more cruel to
man than to any other creature, driving him,
through the stimulation of his own abundant
ingenuity, to follow more and more a path in
which he is homesick from the start.

“What we have to call crime, idleness, and
vagabondage is largely the continuance of un-
reconstructed man in the direction in which na-
ture aimed him, past the switch intended to
shunt him off into our civilized pursuit. Drudg-
ery, on the other hand, is the penalty paid by

566 PLAY IN EDUCATION

those who take the curve for civilization and
way stations and leave the ancient track. And
it is usually only the way stations they can

reach.

"It is true that all real work is supported, as,

.I have said, by the great team instinct. But,
though the instinct is always there, it is not
always strong enough to float the service it

requires of us.

“Darwin said that the wild cowboy Spaniards
«of the east coast of South America were gentle—
men, while their more civilized cousins of the
west coast were not. Sir Walter Scott makes a
:similar unfavorable comparison of the civilized
burgher of Glasgow with the wild cataran of

the Highland hills. Comparisons to the same
effect are often drawn between the manners of
the barbarians like the Bedouin Arabs or our
own Indians and those of more civilized peo-
“ples. And after making every allowance for
aristocratic prejudice in favor of the more bar-
baric virtues, there is enough of truth in these
opinions to be worth thinking of. Certainly it
“will not profit us to gain the whole world of
material prosperity if the result in human char-

acter turns out a loss.

"This is the tragedy of civilization—that the
‘end of all our labor and our ingenuity has been,

The death of Joseph Lee leaves a void that cannot be filled. For the thousands

   

for the great majority of men and women, th
defeat of that inner life which it is our deare

object to promote. Man is a stranger in
modern world. As encountered in his dai
work, it is no longer the world to which h

instinctive capacities relate.

"Which shall the boy do, cultivate the po
ers that ‘are in him or prepare for an industri
pursuit? Shall he train himself to be a usef
member of society at the expense of abando
ing all hope of other expression beyond t
point attainable by an amateur,- or shall
cultivate mind and talent with the result
never making good? That is the choice whi
the great majority of modern youth must fa

“And it is not merely a choice between .l
ing a living and gaining a life; a normal li
is impossible either WCIY. Not to make good
to leave out the one most necessary element t
life. To make good in a way that satisfies
other instinct is to be but half alive. For t
great majority these two vital strands cannot 0
brought together in any pattern they “are stron
enough to weave. The evil for the average bo
of the apprentice age is not merely that he w'
not when he grows up live a‘ full human lif
but that he never can grow up at all. The mea
of acquiring the full stature of humanity do n
exist in either of the alternatives presented.”

I

-of people who are now enjoying public playgrounds and recreation facilities, it seems
natural and their right that these opportunities should be afforded the people; but when
Mr. Lee started his agitation for recreation—especially open-air recreation—there was, to
my knowledge, not one organized open-air playground in existence. It is true that Mr.
'Stover, helped by Miss Wald and a small number of us, brought about the filling in of
the foundation of some tenement buildings which stood on the place where the Seward
Park playground is now located and there, with discarded gymnasium apparatus,
apened one of the first open-air playgrounds. But to Mr. Lee's imagination and to his
initiative was left a larger planning of playground facilities and recreation for the
peOple. Valuable as was this idea and its execution, much more unique was the spirit .
which Mr. Lee brought into this work. His joyfulness and enthusiasm, which were con- "
tagious, brought about the progress which has been made in that field and his name
should, and no doubt will be remembered by the old crowd for a good many years.—
‘FELIX M. WARBURG, Chairman of the first Finance Committee of the National Recrea-

tion Association.

 

MERSON said, propheti-

cally, you would think,

but true then, "Things

I re in the saddle, and ride
ankind."

i This business of things is
' nfusing. I am going to
ave you with a question,
nally——that things are ne-
ssary, and there are some
ings that are better than some others. That
thldren like few and simple things. That our
1 qloisteral desire, longing to get away, sends
many pe0ple to convents and sends others of
, us to mountain peaks. It is very deep in us, and
f I should think that we should be dying for lack
of satisfaction of it at the present time.
We crave simplicity and order. Those of you
. who have children now have a "pen" for them.
A great thing about the “pen” is that if a child
is howling and you put it in the "pen" very
often it stops right off. Children are sick of all
this stuff and want to get away where there is
nly one thing. I have learned that things can
ring the cure as well as the trouble. They can
provide the Cloister, the mountain peak, the
Woodsmall the great solitudes and silences.
1nd that is a wonderful thing—~to see how very
i, inst we are developing in that direction. It
4 seems to me in our conferences that the first
thing we heard about was playgrounds, then
T . u
‘ it was art, and now it is getting to be, I think,
the lonely places—the great parks and great
beauty. scenes — the preservation of the

beaches.

    
   
    
   
  
   
    
   

~

Somebody made a point—a very true point-—
that all people whd teach the economies of real
estate should remember. There are as many
crops to be got at the tOp of the mountains as
' the number of people who go there. It isn't like
i, agriculture. Everybody who looks at a beautiful
scene gets it, gets the whole of it insofar as he
has capacity. That is a great thing for the
schools to do-—to teach us to see.

The great problem now, I think, for our parks,
is how many people can be solitary in the
same place at the same time. It really is becom-
~. mg a very difficult problem. Of course, we can

At the end of each Recreation
Congress Joseph Lee would give
an impromptu summary of the
addresses and discussions at
the meetings. The abstracts given
here are taken from Mr. Lee's
summary of the 1928 Congress
which appeared in the November,

1928, is'sue of Recreation.

At the National Recreation Congresses

make the places. It is easy
enough to do 'the obvious
thing. Take away the hot
dog signs.

But in this matter of pre-
venting peOple from treading
on one another and killing
one another's enjoyment, and
how much of the thing there
is left when we have all got
there——the Playground Association will never
do any of the fool things there. We shan't or-
ganize people, "One, two, three, look-—relax—
be solitary.” ‘

Another thing I have learned is that there are
many workers in all forms of play and recrea-
tion who are tracing on matter the true impres-
sion of a child, the human being. Where do
they touch it? Where does it touch them? Where
does it call to them? What are the voices that
they hear? What are the sights that beckon?
What things? What tools? What are the wea-
pons of the mind?

I was very much interested in the reiteration
in all the talks I have heard, that "things" have
got to meet human nature,- and "things" are
our own counterpart, are our playfellow, are
the other half of us. How can you make the
introduction, bring the two, things and our—
selves, together? I think it is wonderful that
everything we have heard has been along that
line.

N

I was present at the beginning of a play-
ground in Boston, a school playground. And
while it was being fixed up, while there was a
lot of rubbish left there from the houses that
were pulled down, and while the sand was
there that the men used in their work and a little
shack which they could jump off, it was
swarmed with children. But when it was sl-icked
up and a fence put around it, no child could
be induced to go near it.

Children do like and they do need variety.
The good old rhyme of Robert Louis Stevenson
is very true. On the other hand, they do need
to be let alone in a few things.

Now, what about it? What is the variety that
dissipates, and what is the variety that calls

567

568

AT THE NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESSES

’5‘.

- 1' h .

"WWArWM ‘ ’3‘” “‘M _ g; _""‘j:"'  

At a Recreation Congress

 

:‘  . a. , 4a.:  9+";- :

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
      
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
    

forth? What is passivity? In many of thes
things we all know that passive recreatio
doesn't amount to so much. Perhaps sometime
we make a mistake there. Listening to music i
not passive—if you listen to it. But still there i '
a lot of passive amusement. I am a movie fa
myself.

What is the passivity that disintegrates an
what is the passivity that recollects? That is v
wonderful expression. Recollection! That is .
beautiful word of what we mean and what
get from solitude. We get to hear the tones y
generally can't hear: the little intimations I
what really matters. Recollect and pull yourse
together in that sense, too. It is recollection '
both ways. To bring yourself to bear again; I
know a little bit what it was you meant, wh
it was you started out to say.

M‘— AA ‘1‘. - “

I quote Emerson. He says, "The great advic
to give young writers is not to leave out th
thing they began to say, the things the thin
was about." I think that is the main thing in lif
as well as in writing. What was it you mea
to say?

And recollection, the same speaker said, w \
"being able to see down into the depth of . 1
pool." That is quiet. I

Now, what is the solitude that recollects, th
passivity that recollects? It isn't really passi
-—it is partly so; and the passivity that is merel
so much out of your life, a blank, nothing, n
result. What is the principle that distinguish ll
those two things, those slightly different que
tions?

I make a little suggestion. I don't think it i
of much, if any, importance. But just as a so
of starter. Is it with children, the importunat
things, like toys, that call to you to do som I
thing, that you don't want too many of—an
the kind of material that calls you out towar
it that you can stand more of?

Well, that is a good deal the same thing. But
I mean the kind of thing that calls you to come .
and rest or come and play and that isn't dissi-
pating. I haven't made much of a suggestio -
there. But some things are importunate, a
some things not so much so.

N oft-related New Eng—
A land anecdote recounts

how a certain village
I character said: "Sometimes I
I set and think, and sometimes
' I just set." The world has
I come to suspect that the
. same classification applies more or less gener—
. ally to philosophers, and Joseph Lee of Boston
is a philosopher, though many thousands of his
neighbors call him a philanthropist and he clas—
sifies himself in "Who's Who in America” sim-
‘ ply as a social worker. A member of the Lee
l family of bankers in Boston, connected by mar-
j riage with the Cabots, and educated for the
1 bar, he might have been a leader in business,
1 law, or finance, but he chose social work, and
-‘ for nearly thirty years his name has been asso-
ciated with two great idealistic movements:
I playgrounds and play for children, and com-
; munity service, or play for grown—ups.

But to get back to Lee the philosopher, who
not only "sat"—in a typically New England
rocking chair—while he was being questioned
about his philosophy of life and service, but
4 permitted his quick mind to pass swiftly over
I the principles of ancient and modern philoso-
, phy, radiating at the same time an infectious
I urge to incarnate (his favorite expression) the
philosophic ideals which he was expressing in
pungent epigram.

"My getting interested in play was partly
‘ because play is the spot where the principle of
education rather than the 'hand—out' as a social
‘ policy has the highest visibility," says Mr. Lee,
“but the particular thing that first made me de-
cide to do something was reading of boys ar-
rested‘for playing in the streets: it was as if
I those boys had been arrested for living.”

That caused him to rush at the task of pro-
viding playgrounds, and his intense interest
has caused the Playground and Recreation
Association of America to hold him as its presi-
. dent continuously since 1908.* To understand
the great influence Ioseph Lee has had upon

   
  
  
   
   
 

 

‘ ' Should be 1910.

By THEODATE GEOFFREY

A Philosopher Who
Works for Fun and How
and Why He Does It

Joseph Lee, Philosopher

contemporary civilization, no
catalogue of his offices or
achievements is helpful, for
they are mere by-products.
The essential thing about his
contribution to the y e a r 5
through which he has lived-—

he is sixty-four years old—is his philosophy.

"I think my philosophy in social work, if such
it is, was wished on me,” he says. "It was cer»
tainly all there almost as long ago as I remem-
ber. When I was about four years old and
showed lack of enthusiasm about eating crusts,
my nurse said to me: 'There are many little
boys in the street who would like to have those
crusts.’ I thought: How about the rest of it? I do
not mean that I have in the least lived up to this
philosophy. If I had done so I should be a
Christian—a name to which I fear I have no
title. But I have been a far-off follower of the
Christian, or democratic, ideal in thinking of
people as real—as spiritual beings, with beauti-
ful and tragic possibilities—and in working, in
a rather feeble way, to make life possible for

all of us.

"As to method, I have always believed that
the spiritual governs—ethat life cannot be stuck
on but must be brought out, that to tie on the
flowers is ineffective: you must water the plant.
You must also care what sort of plant it is.
Selection will show more even than education
in the result, and I have believed in birth con-
trol, in restricted immigration, and in the hu-
mane sterilization of the unfit.

“Of philosophy in the ordinary sense I pos-
sess a little. Nobody, for instance, will survive
in public work who minds what he is called.
I do not mean such affectionate epithets as fool
or anarchist, but the more grim and savage
designations of worthy or well-meaning. I can't
say that I have ever been called an up-lifter;
even the standpatters are not mean enough for
that. The thing to remember about such desig—
nations is that they are not expressions of opin-
ion but merely cries of pain—an encouraging
symptom that you are getting somewhere.

569

 

OSEPH LEE was appointed by the Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, as a member of the

War Department Commission on Training Camp Activities, and by Secretary of Navy,
Josephus Daniels, as a member of the Navy Department Commission on Training Camp
Activities. For this service Major General Clarence R. Richards, on behalf of the War Depart—
ment, decorated him with the Distinguished Service Medal. Raymond B. Fosdick, Chairman
of the Commission on Training Camp Activities of the War Department, stated at the time:
“I have no hesitation in asserting that the work which War Camp Community Service has
done for our Commission in stimulating the recreation activities in the communities near the
military camps is the most effective single piece of work with which we have been related."

570 ~ \.

H

JOSEPH LEE, PHILOSOPHER 57f

' “For satisfaction, there is the same satisfac-
tion that there is in all true work—trying to do

game-thing and once in a long time getting a

little of it done. There is'besides, as in art or
- r music or discovery—in any of the real things—-
- t the feeling that the work is bigger than you are,
that you and your private interests are insigni-

ficant, which is the first requisite of life and
.. happiness."

_ Growing up in Boston in the democratic aris—
t cracy of the old days on Beacon Hill when
tile little bluebloods battled joyously on Boston
Common with the alley-gamins from the Oppo-
site side of the Hill, through an education at
Q Exeter and Harvard, Joseph Lee discovered the
theory that has lasted him through life, and that
theory is in part:

   

"What people want is power, rather than
money; but money gives power and the way to
get it is not to have it given you but to earn it.

"I do not have to live in a settlement house to
know how poor people think. Realizing certain
fundamentals of human nature, I can assume
that a human being will react thus and so to
the matters of environment, occupation, wages,
recreation.

"It is better to have a sound theory than a
collection of facts. A theory reasoned correctly
must be true; but facts may often be distorted
or misinterpreted.

“It may be a fact that a man is poor, or ill,
dr a drunkard; but if you seek to change the
fact by giving him money, you only pay him
to be poor, or ill, or a drunkard. You must
change the theory to change the results.

"You cannot afford to give a man necessi-
ties, but you may give him all the luxuries
you can compass without hurting him. Money,
bread and butter, or a suit of clothes will only
pauperize a man,- but make him a gift of oppor-
tunity and he will make himself rich.

"The San Francisco earthquake was a good
example of what I mean. Your big-hearted bus-
iness man promptly organized a bread-line and
when John Jones shuffled up, he received a
dollar's worth of food. But an intelligent social
worker, discovering that John Jones was a car-
penter by trade and that carpenters were get-
ting $25 a day on recon-
struction work, spent $25
or so to get a tool kit for

The World ’5 Work for November 1928
carried this article on Joseph Lee,

John Jones, who was thereby enabled to earn
$150 a week himself. That is the difference be-

tween a dole of necessities and a gift of oppor~
tunity.

"Working and being paid for work is the only
way in which wages will ever be raised. My

idea of a minimum wage is about $10,000, a
year, but I want men to earn it, not get it as a
'hand-out.'

"Socialism, soviets, minimum wage advo-
cates, trade unionists all share the same funda-
mental fallacy. They seek to. increase the in-
dividual's proportion by increasing the number
of shares. The best thing I see about Mussolini
is that he hangs on to old-fashioned arithmetic
in which two and two always make four; that
if you wish to increase the value of the shares,
you must first increase the total. Limiting out-
put, equalizing opportunity, removing individ—
ual incentive do not increase the total that is
to be divided.

"Wages are the acid test of the value of
labor. Take mental therapy as applied to.
wounded soldiers: the veteran in the hospital
making a lamp shade gets a certain amount of
good from being occupied, a certain amount of
reward from his nurse's praise; but when you
market his wares and put in his hand the
money some one paid for his work, that is a
medicine which will make him get up and
dance for joy!”

"I seem to be a devil of a long way from
playgrounds,” interpolated Joseph Lee rocking.
gently, "but I am getting to them, you will see."

And he did. Tossing off quotations from Plato,
Hegel, McDougall, Dewey, Adler, he spun his
web of philosophy till suddenly the point be-
came clear.

“The causes of unrest are not economic but
spiritual. What we are witnessing is the revolt
of men who see life passing away without
their ever having lived, who face the prospect
of carrying their ideals and aspirations unful-

filled and unspoken to the grave.

“Since play is the most deeply rooted instinct
in human nature, the ideal is to have man's
work satisfy his play instinct. But civilization
upsets theory, sidesteps
play abruptly at the point
where the child becomes

572 JOSEPH LEE, PHILOSOPHER

a man. There is no place in nine-tenths of in- Work—economic independence—is one conai
dustry and business for play. tion of an individual's self-respect. and happi
"The artist and the professional man can ness, but only half of it; the man who has onl
play while they work, but with fool-proof ma— work and no play has only half of him alive.’ ,1
chines and organized business, the majority of Unobtrusively, Joseph Lee practices what h
people today must live upon the margin left preaches. He played with his own childre I
outside their work, or die. Thus our present and now with his grandchildren. For recre I 
civilization must tend to permit a man to earn tion, he is a happy amateur at sketching, dan ,
high enough Wages to indulge in play outside ing, music; he is more than an amateur . i
of economic production. skating, since he likes to reel off twenty swin
"Play is an educational force. In animals _it ing miles on the clear black ice of the Charl I
is the urge to incarnate the instincts by which River.,Modestly he says himself: "I didn't sta l
the species sustains life. The kitten chasing a playgrounds. In 1899, I was surprised to fi '
leaf is incarnating itself as the future hunter. that they were not used, and I worked to
Man has more complex instincts to incarnate. cure leadership for them.”
Fundamentally play embodies three great ne- 'That is his own statement. But his countr
cessities of existence: hunting, fighting, and in recognition of his work as president of t "
teamwork. Any 'game' includes two or more War Camp Community Service, voted him I
of those elements in combination. There is an- Distinguished Service Medal: his co-worke ,
other phase of play: the joy of creating. The attribute to him a potent and far-reaching infl
child building a castle of blocks, the architect ence and inspiration: and the figures of the i ,
building a cathedral are alike expressing that crease during the past quarter of a centu
urge. But art is a language and language im- in playgrounds, community Christmas tre I
plies a hearer. The artist is not satisfied with pageants, municipal golf courses, "little the
his expression until it has been appreciated, tres,” and such manifestations of the reachi
and so among the ideal elements of play we out of the American people for opportunity
must include understanding. play, all bear witness to the intangible yet re
"What we must aim at is to liberate the com— power of thinking made contagious and vibr .'
munity's urge to play, so that each individual by the personality of that tall, spare New En .
finds satisfaction for his needs of hunting, fight- lander with mobile white mustache and kind
ing, teamwork, creation,, and understanding. blue eyes, Joseph Lee.
I
On Choosmg an Inshman for an Ancestor n

One of the ancestors of Joseph Lee was Patrick Tracy, a penniless Irish lad who
left his home in Wexford, Ireland, early in the reign of Queen Anne and settled at New- Q
buryport and became one of the outstanding ancestors of New England. His second
wife was a granddaughter of Rev. John Cotton and connected with the Quincy family. i J

According to the Boston Post of August -1, 1937, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Henry Lee Higginson, James Jackson Storrow, Robert Treat Paine, Dr. Charles Pickering
Putnam, James Jackson Minot, General Charles Russell Lowell, Joseph Lee and many
other leading citizens of Boston were direct descendants.

By the time the war came on in 1776 Patrick Tracy who had come to Massachu-

setts in 1730, a boy of 19, had a fleet worth three millions, maintained twenty-four pri—
vateers with 340 guns and 2800 men which captured 120 British ships.

lm‘/J--—-

October 18, 1919

*-
_ I

  
  
  
  
     
  
 
   
 

' Editor of the San Francisco Call
. San Francisco, California

' Dear Sir:

I was interested in your editorial because
you felt amusement needs no organization.

I am doubtless a prejudiced party, but I can
say that, though I don't agree with your con-
clusion, I sympathize to a considerable extent
with your point of view. Personally I do not al-
ways like to take my amusements in a crowd.
I happen to be fond of fishing and I cherish an
undying hatred for those who on various occa-
sions have offered a brass band accompani-
ment to my advances to the trout. And then

nobody likes to be reminded that he needs or-
ganizing.

I But yet there is a lot of recreation that can-
not be got without organization. My favorite
sport in my younger days was football and I
; never could make much of a go of it when by
myself. I found I needed others on my side and
_3 still another bunch to try things on—also that
there had to be a playground or some kind of
a place furnished by the town or somebody

where we could play without exciting too lively
an interest in the cop.

Another weakness which I share with the
majority of my fellow countrymen who have
tried it is for chorus singing. That again is some-
thing you cannot do alone nor at all success-
fully without a leader: And the leader must
come from somewhere and have had some
training in his job. (We are going not only to
furnish song leaders to start community singing

but to train others to carry it on, both profes-
sionals and volunteers.)

l Dances, games and social occasions gener-
ally are things that some groups of people can
manage altogether for themselves but for which
others are dependent upon facilities furnished
lin the school building or the town hall or in
some other public way. The whole business of
the development of neighborhood centers de-
pends on organization. That parts of our cities
are still Saharas in which the unfortunate in-

habitants are dependent for such social life as

From Private Letters of I oseph Lee

they attain upon the rare cases of institutional
churches and college settlements is due to lack
of team play. They differ, however, from Sa-
hara in the fact that the water of life is really-
there in the people themselves and lacks only

the Moses to smite the rock of their individuaI
isolation and bring it forth.

The same thing is true of our most popular
and enticing forms of sport. In Detroit and other
cities there are twilight leagues of soccer and
playground ball. These could not be carried on
without municipal playgrounds and are not in-
fact successful without somebody whose busi-
ness it is to get them organized.

Citizenship work (often rather forbiddingly
called Americanization) is another leisure time
activity that does not organize itself. Forums,
lectures, public discussions, library extension,
parent-teachers' associations and mothers'"
clubs, educational and cultural evening class-
es, education in food saving and gardening,
the teaching of the essentials of government
and the meaning of American institutions are.
not self-starters as a rule.

But I do not think that upon this matter the-
people of California need any argument from
me. It so happens that one of my daughters is
soon to take up her residence in your neighbor-
hood in order to begin her attendance at Berk-
eley University. One of the things she is look-
ing forward to is a visit to the Yosemite, and
one of the things upon which she and all other
Americans are to be congratulated is that the
public spirit of California has secured the set-
ting aside and organizing for the public use of
this wonderful recreation feature of all the peo-
ple and for all time. The same thing, though on
an infinitely smaller scale, is being done when-
ever a park or playground or social center is
organized in any city or town.

Very truly yours,
IOSEPH LEE

May 24. 1926
Dear Mr. B—_ :

I don't quite understand about the Mohawk
Trail. I don’t believe in having any clean recrea-

573

' 574 FROM PRIVATE LETTERS OF JOSEPH LEE

tion near it, that is to say, nothing cleaner than
the woods and brooks. I came over it the other
day, and the only thing I would suggest would
be the removal of such artificial recreation as
there is, consisting of hot dogs, tame bears, and
enormous screeching signs of Socony.

If there is one thing our people need it is
contemplation,——-some place where they can be
left in quiet with nature and the eternal things.
One Socony sign or hot dog stand will put you
out of tune for at least an hour, two will Spoil
the day for all the purposes for which the Mo-
hawk Trail exists except that of human trans-
portation, which could be accomplished better
by the Hoosac Tunnel, where the material
transported will not be disturbed by woods and
streams and such unwelcome objects. Fortu-
nately the greater part of the Mohawk Trail is
through the state forest where there are no signs
or anything at all except the road and the
streams and woods and mountains.

Yours very sincerely,

IOSEPH LEE

Dear Mr. B——-—:

I think the setting aside of parks for camping
and recreation generally is of vital importance
and will become vastly more so as America
becomes filled up. We ought even, if necessary,
to use for park and beauty purposes land that
could be used for food.

It is not a misfortune to Switzerland that the
Lord or somebody has so made their country
that it is impossible to reduce it wholly to utili-
tarian ends, though the railroads up the lung-
frau, etc., are doing their best. The greatest
asset of mankind is the unconquerable sea.
Some practical man will some day come along
to show how it can be made to produce corn or

oil or some other means of living miserably in
an uninteresting world.

Sincerely yours,
I OSEPH LEE

. July 5,1932
Dear Mr. B——————-:

The ideas that rule the world are the ideas
of poets—-—Iesus, Buddha, Plato, Mohammed,

vide myself with an alibi as to ensuing remarks

   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
  

Emerson, Rousseau. ' Life will not be scientifi
until every emotion has been weighed an
measured, especially the emotions we may e
perience in the future—for it is only the futu
we can deal with.

 

The best trainer of a crew is the prophet
its possibilities. It is what people have not do
which matters—miles of facts will never tell
that.

h—'-_ " 'n . '

IOSEPH- LEE

~

December 4, 1926

Dear Mr. B—f

In belated answer to your letter of Octob
21st addressed to The Playground on the s
iect of the film story of Christ, the only practic
suggestion I have is ‘that it would seem to
necessary to the presentation of an essenti
element in the character of Jesus to make
good deal of the passage about the lilies of t
field. The Christian religion has often suffere
notably in America, from the absence of
beautiful in its teaching. Iesus evidently had
great feeling for beauty and it is extraordinari
well given in this parable. The lilies of the fiel
I have read, are the common field flower '
Palestine, corresponding to our daisies and b
tercups. The lily also happens to be a ve
beautiful flower. To pick the common lily in t
grass and say that not Solomon in all his glo
was arrayed like one of these is the act of o
extremely sensitive to the revelation of the d

vine as beauty.

Yours .very truly, I
JOSEPH LEE

~

From a Letter Written on a“ Sick Bed

February 26, 1930

Dear Mr. 8—:

I am now sick, can only write this by p
my feet higher than my head, and thereby pr

E.
H-
H
:3
L0

There is no use in finding out any more facts
until we have some kind of principles or idea

_ he left?" the cat replying "That depends on
ghere you want to get to,” or words to that
ffect.

Now I think the main principle of all social
‘Norkers should be my pet old motto: Don't tie
on the flowers; water the plant. I think it is a

reat pity that social workers should think so
uch about leading methods of tying on the
lowers.

l One thing to do is through the schools and

fther wise methods to make industry more pro-

uctive, and even some of the fools are doing
omething about it.

doing this. Every Italian peasant lives, or most

of them anyway. The hackman points out to
you the beauty of the sunset. He isn't paid to do

it, he just can't help it. He hasn't any money,
though he does soak you twice his fare, which
shows a sporting interest on his part. But he
does know a little how to live.

You know you can stuff a man full of food
and yet leave him to starve. It all depends on
‘he kind of food. Until our schools cease to

terilize the budding art and science in the child
Americans will not live, whatever happens to
hem in other respects.

I listened to some people talking on a piazza
town in Florida one day. They were there to
ee the beauties of the tr0pical scenery, I sup-
pose. They knew exactly how many gallons of

ors and things had done, but as to whether
they had gone all the way through a tunnel or
over a bridge they didn't know. I suppose some
of them got into the water on the beaches, per-

haps got enough in their mouths to know it was
salt.

     
 

There are also of course the wonderful case-
, work agencies who are leaders in education,
though neither they nor anybody else has real-
I i'zed it, and who are leading it in the water-the-
plant direction, relying upon bringing out the
strength that is in each person, however far
down they have got, rather than trying to give
*. them ready-made results in a sealed package.
They tackle the stream pretty far down, but they
are showing us the way to tackle it up nearer
to the source.

[gasoline they had used and what the carbure- '

FROM PRIVATE LETTERS OF JOSEPH LEE 575

L’Envoi. I have from time to time reviled
one of my friends for being so much interested
in every kind of way of tying on the flowers.
We have got to do some of it probably, but for
the love of Mike let's put our licks in where

they will count about a thousand times as
much.

Remember it is one or the other. We can't do
both. There isn't money enough.

When I was on the School Committee in Bos-
ton I was interested in the children's teeth. I
found that if all the dentists in Boston worked
all the time on the school children alone, they
could not 'keep up with the decay. I found that
if a fraction of them devoted their attention to
the children before they were six and had their
mouths clean and in good condition at the com-
ing of the sixth year molar, that clean condition
could be carried through in that generation at
small expense and after that the children's teeth
would all be sound. But you can't have both.

I have no quarrel with the tyers-on, namely,
as to how far they will go in using the money
of the rich to make life possible for everybody.
My point against them is not that they are tak-
ing money from the rich but that they are not
using it to help the poor but only distributing
it in a way that may make us all poorer and
certainly does not bring us life as it should and
might. The resources of the community should
be used to bring life, not to paint people to look
as if they were alive after it is too late.

I think the spirit back of it all should be the
spirit of the Puritans. They didn't succeed along
the road they chose, but they were right in
their main idea, which was that it was the busi-
ness of the State to make of this world a place
in which the soul of man can live.

JOSEPH LEE

April 22. 1925
Dear Mr. B———:

I am a little averse to beginning with things
as they are if that means any lowering of the
standard. I think it makes no difference how
poor the accessories are, the mounting and
staging and all that. I rather think that the best
drama has generally been where the stage set-
tings were the cheapest. The Greek theatre I
believe stuck up a sign to Show What the scene

576 " FROM" PRIVATE LETTERS OF IOSEPH LEE -

was supposed to represent, or had a three-cor-

nered thing they turned round. Shakespeare
had about the same plan, and both did good

work.

But when it comes to compromising with vul-
garity, it is more doubtful, though I admit that
I have not a perfectly clear division in my mind
between what is a little rotten and What is
merely crude. I don't know, for instance, just
where pie-throwing comes except that I would
not have it come at all if, to eliminate it, I had
to pay a hundred dollars a throw.

I OSEPH LEE

July 11, 1928
Dear Mr. C——:

Bully for you for saying that the less organ-
ized the play and playthings, the more suitable
to the imagination of the children. The thing I
am getting us playground people to discuss is,
how in blazes, with the natural tendency of
human nature to slick everything up and be
orderly, we can have on a small children's
plaground (pre-baseball) a sufficient mess to
make the placea habitable to children. The ordi-
nary junk-pile is better than a too orderly play-
ground. And as for packing cases and what
might be called wooden rubbish (also miscel-
laneous sand'piles and bits of lead and iron
and half bricks), what could be nearer Para—
dise than" these? Of course a barrel with an
incline you can roll down inside of it is a little
better, if there are not too many nails sticking
out. inside, as in the German storybooks.

Yours very truly,

' IOSEPH LEE

May 8, 1931
Dear Mr. B—————:

Miss Zilpha Smith did a lot about open
spaces, not especially playgrounds but some
of them used as such, before almost anything

like that was done in Boston. About 1890—cer- ,

tainly before 1897—I was on a committee of
hers for which I made a study of certain crowd-
ed districts and selected sites for playgrounds
in them, one of which was bought by the Gen-
eral Electric Company—furnishing confirmation
of my idea of values but not particularly help-
ing the playground situation. However, a play-
ground was afterwards made alongside.

 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
       
     
 
 
  

Miss Smith made a map of Boston showin
just where we were at and started a good pie
of propaganda which resulted in holding t
open spaces that we had and increasing the
somewhat.

Very truly yours,
IOSEPH LEE

Iune 3, 1926
Dear Mr. B——:

I think the first thing I did about play was
help in 1892 ('3) in a survey of Boston play c
portunities, including graveyards, with a stu
of the especially congested areas which need
playgrounds, started by Miss Zilpha Smith.
made a study, with the aid of detailed maps
the assessors, of two districts, one in the No
End, the other in the South End near South Ba
In the latter I picked out a place for a pla
ground which afterwards the Edison Elect
bought, and the city afterwards took the ne
lot for the playground. I was glad to have t
Edison Electric endorse my conclusion.

I
l
i
1.
1
I
.1

1

I did a little something to help Mayor Quin
get through a bill for playgrounds in Boston

1898 (?).

I really started playground work with t
playground at North End Park in the winter
1898-9. We carried on that playground for t
years and then, owing I think to political co
plications in that district, we transferred t
work to the Columbus Avenue Playground
1900 and continued there until 1906.

We also had for a time the small Prince Str
Playground in the North End, probably 189

1900.

The work at Columbus Avenue included
children's" corner, a boys' corner, a big field
about 31/2 acres, and 280 individual garden
There was also indoor workmbasketball, bo '
ing (on an alley made by the boys) and so
club work—in two old stables which were cu
of the playground“ property. It also includ
some work in the evenings by the playgrou i
directors in other rooms, and studies, throu y
the schools and otherwise, of what the boys d'
in the afternoons, and how the playgrou f
work was affecting them. ‘

 

Yours very sincerely,

JOSEPH LEE 

 

 

a
Q

l .

ear Mr. B——:

March I, 1932

l The immediate result of my busting myself
hen skating is that I have some time to do the
ings I want to-—-though not as yet much of the
eeded strength. I am feeling perfectly well
ut I don't recommend that particular form of
uni.

I insist upon the fact that it was all the

. ult of the skate which came off—as it did last
ear. I had used those skates without any im—
ortant misbehavior on their part for at least
fty years and I got them second-hand from
my cousin who had used them about twenty
y.ears. They are perfectly good now except that
the clamps are somewhat worn. I suppose that

l was the trouble. I hate to give them up. Falling

because a skate comes off is the most sudden
and the most dangerous thing that can happen.
There is no time to wink before you hit the ice.

Sincerely yours,

JOSEPH LEE.

May 2, 1930

ear Mr. B-——-—:

.1 I I think that the root of the difficulty which
 many American people find in making any
5 valuable use of leisure today is that they have
, no conception of what leisure time is for. They
;“ have no conception of the ultimates. They think
i that any activity to be justified must be useful;

must either make for health or business suc-
cess, or must do good to your aunt or to the
people, or have some other excuse for being.
Beauty is good if it can make a better man of
you, or give you a better appetite for dinner,
or enable you to sell your pictures. But that
beauty is reality, that it is life, has never en-

. tered their imagination.

The same is true of sport. If life can prove
that it produces food, then life may be excused.

. We live a little or go through the forms of doing

so in order that we may produce. We don't

I, produce in order that we may live. Of course

FROM PRIVATE LETTERS OF IOSEPH LEE

577

the result is that outside our working hours
many of us don't live at all.

Yours very truly,

IOSEPH LEE

~

October 31, 1929
Dear Mr. B———:

Mr. Tichenor's idea is absolutely correct. If
our play has been what we think it is it will
cover a person's whole life. Also perhaps a
statement which I have often made,—-that play
constitutes the serious element in work. It is the
element that differentiates a profession from a
task, the side of work that contains the ideal
and that makes the lawyer, doctor, soldier live
up to his professional standard regardless of
the effect upon his income or his life.

Play is of course a rotten name, but the above

is what I think we mean by it. You must show
this to Mr. Tichenor.

Yours very sincerely,

IOSEPH LEE

~

RECREATION AND FUN

(From the Ohio State Journal)

There are now more than 12,000 men and
women regularly employed as recreation di-
rectors in this progressive country, but of
course they can't be on duty all the while, and

we suppose the children contrive to have con-
siderable fun in between times.

Sure they can. They can drown the kitten,
steal the bananas, sass the cop, swipe the kid's
bats and balls, take an advanced course in
stealing automobiles, and do their part in mak-
ing our crime wave a success.

But some of them like coasting, skating, bas-
ketball, and other things that playground di-
rectors get for them just as well as any of these

other things.
IOSEPH LEE

February 2, 1926

Why Men and Women Contributed
Through Joseph Lee

Characteristic Individual
Letters of Joseph Lee

Ianuary 27, 1926
DEAR S——:

This is not sent in gratitude for having met
you last Monday evening at SS but a
mere routine piece of insistence;

Last year you sent us $150 for the Playground
and Recreation Association, and $100 more in
April; so that on the theory that from him who
hath given shall be taken, you owe us $250
this year.

That is to say, you owe it if you think you
do and are irresistibly impelled to send it.

You know about us, so I will not enlarge on
our merits except to say that I think we are
doing an increasingly workmanlike job, which
now includes a great deal of follow-up to see
that things are up to standard, and a rising
standard of our own, owing to the perception
that it is only what is really artistic that has
any carrying power or ought to have.

 

Very sincerely yours
IOSEPH LEE

April 4, 1931

Dear I
You were a good fellow to give me the thou—
sand last year and I am not holding it against
you. Our Macchiavellian secretary writes that
you have three times given us $100, so I am
suggesting that compromise though perhaps a
more formal arithmetic would suggest that you
had paid for a 10 year's (or 9 year's) immunity.

 

578

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

There are many non-financial things I wa
to talk with you about affecting both the‘colle
and the universe, but my, last projected vi
was stopped by poison administered, the doct
tells me, by a primrose—not, I think, as a res .
of following the primrose path but of having I
very nice present from a lady. Talk about t .
rose having a thorn—I suppose it is the pri
rose that is meant.

Sincerely yours

IOSEPH LEE

Dear Mr. I

I believe that play and recreation have .
strong tendency to lessen lawbreaking. At th
lowest a boy is not breaking the laww—not an
law that ought not to be broken—H—when he i
playing football. Further, football and simila
dangerous sports give expression to the fightin
or knight-errant instinct in every boy, turnin
it into the proper channel instead of leaving '
to overflow over the surrounding country. Th
alternative to a boy in a playless world 1
break the law or die, and to his everlastin
credit he chooses the former alternative.

I do not believe, however, that the mat
object of play is prevention of lawlessness o
of anything else. It is the expression of th
nature that the Lord put into human beings
and its function is positive.

 

IOSEPH LEE

 

From Friends of Joseph Lee

 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 

I was distressed to see in the paper yester-
the news of the death of Ioseph Lee. I
member him with the deepest affection. He
S a tower of strength in the Commission on
aining Camp Activities, and I do not know
w we could have lived through the ordeal of
at experience without his constant support
d the unique talent which he had for bring-
g differing points of view into harmony. His
venty-five years were usefully and happily
ployed, and he has left behind him a mem-
which those of us who knew him will al-
ays cherish. You and I whose ties go back to
e Commission on Training Camp Activities

are a precious recollection—RAYMOND B.
SDICK.

N

The name of Ioseph Lee in my opinion be-
ngs in the same category of great Americans
William James, Emerson and Thoreau, one
whose books Mr. Lee sent me many years
0. I can say no more about Mr. Lee than

is, that he is one of the few reasons for be-
ming an American citizen.—EVA LE GALLI-
NE.

~

One of my most treasured experiences is that
f having known Ioseph Lee in the intimate
ay that we who have been associated in the
ational Recreation Association were privi-
ed to know him. His keen mind and genial
ersonality made him both an inspiration and
kindly friend. HappY children in pleasant
laces are an enduring monument to his mem-

ry.—LEE F. HANMER.

N

In my opinion ’1Play in Education” is worth
ix times more than all the other junk that has
een written by the college and other so-called
xpert. It is the only play classic. ——ALBERT
.KENNEDY, Headworker, University Settlement.

~’

There is a song of gratitude for Ioseph Lee's
manY years of leadership and inspiration and
a challenge to uphold and perpetuate in our
keble way the ideals and standards he so
heroically established and so triumphantly

. lived—DOROTHY ENDERIS, Recreation Execu-
‘ tWe. Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

I
I

 

Ioseph Lee will live in the lives and in the

work of those he inspired to greater accomplish-
ment in the field he loved so well.-——]OHN

BRADFORD, Rural Recreation Specialist, Na-
tional Recreation Association.

~

As a representative of the American Negro
group, many of whom Ioseph Lee's philanthro-
pies aided, I have a deep sense of gratitude
that Ioseph Lee continuously promoted the ideal
of service to all humanity without stint or limi-
tation because of color or creed. I pray God
his purposes may be achieved, as he would
have them, by hands he has trained and in-
spired. —ERNEST T. ATTWELL, Manager, Bu-
reau of Colored Work, National Recreation
Association.

N

Ioseph Lee was one of Nature's noblemen.
In one great personality he combined the quali-
ties and powers of philosopher, educator, social
prophet and servant of mankind. I always felt
that he "saw life clearly and saw it whole,”
and "as he lived from day to day” he was not
embittered by what he saw, but seemed con-
tinually inspired by a child-like faith and trust
in humanity. He could never approve of the evil
ways of men, but he possessed a sympathetic
understanding of their weaknesses and a vision
of their possibilities for righteousness. "His was
an understanding mind and heart flavored and
tempered by a fine, rare sense of humor.—»

LEBERT H. WEIR, Staff Member, National Rec-

reation Association.

~

I think there never could be anyone with a
wiser, kindlier, gayer and more pervasive spirit
than Ioseph Lee's. To come nearer to his
dreams through the coming years of working
and dreaming and working some more, always
"joli," as Dr. Finley would say, is as fine and
stirring and dear a calling as any "recreation-

er" could have, and as anyone could have.—
AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG, Director,- Music Ser-
vice, National Recreation School.

~

With this letter goes my own personal sense
of bereavement for Mr. Lee was so broad and

579

580 FROM FRIENDS OF JOSEPH LEE

catholic in his deep interest and sympathy for
all the fields of social work. His was one of the
universal souls with fineness of appreciation
for any social work which was worth while.-——--
FRANCIS H. McLEAN, Staff Consultant, Family

Welfare Association of America.

~

Joseph Lee's personality, high idealism, ge—
.nius, devotion, keen comprehension of human
values added much to the richness of the ser-
vice of the entire movement. “GEORGE I.
FISHER, M. D., Deputy Chief Scout Executive
'Boy Scouts of America.

~

Mr. Lee was a neighbor of mine in Massa-
chusetts and I knew him well. He possessed
natural leadership and realized that outdoor
living, spontaneous play, and the need of men
for beauty and friendliness all hang together.
He was an example himself of what he be-
lieved in.

Mr. Lee was deeply interested in increased
vocational training and realized that it went
hand in hand with raising the school age.

Mr. Lee imparted his own enthusiasm to
others. He was full of New England tang. He
thought of himself as an individualist, but was
deeply engrossed in a public recreational pro-
gram. What a lucky thing it is that all our ideas
don't hang togetherlmMARY K. SIMKHOVITCH,

Director, Greenwich House, New York City.

~

From One Who Knew Him Through

a Friend

I have waited a bit before writing you to see
if some definite suggestions would grow out of
my first strong desire that the thrill of Joseph
'Lee's early choice and subsequent career might
in some adequate way be passed on to other
young men standing on the threshold of what
might become their own useful careers in so-
cial service. There's a great story there. Who
can tell it appealingly?

Is there someone with imagination and a
facile pen who could interpret "Ioe Lee” to the
seniors in our colleges and universities, law
:schools and engineering schools? If the job
were well enough done I should think you
would find it annually an aid in your own re-

v Lee's choice of career to young men is wor

cruiting work. It would also be a contribution
to the whole field.

But it would need to weave together football, r"
rowing, boxing, civic and municipal improv
ments, juvenile delinquency, etc., etc., into}
joyous, thrilling tale—one that would conne
with the present potential "Ioe Lee" and ca
him forward in imagination to his own lat
satisfaction as a man in this rapidly changi
world.

     
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
 

If it could show what it meant in the 18
world to a well-to-do young man to decide
social work as a career, what it involves tod
and if it could make the uncertainties of 1
real and the challenge of 1937 equally
tractive it might carry a much sought-for m
sage to young men you would like to rea
and who want to be reached by some one.

Who could write such a story? It wouldn't
true to Mr. Lee if it didn't carry that delightf
mixture of gentle-fierceness, robust courage a
wily wisdom that made him a terror to evil,
foe to prudishness, an antidote for gloom a
a strategist of the first order.

I do think the main idea of interpreting M

   

passing on. So I do so, with great admiratio
for his inspiring life and sincere acknowledg4

ment of his helpfulness, through you, to me.—
DAVID H. HOLBROOK, Secretary, National I

Social Work Council.

N

Flags at Half Mast in Hamilton

Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, playground flagls
are half-masted today-paying honour and re-
spect to the late Ioseph Lee, LL.D. The late
Mr. Lee was president of the Playground and
RecreatiOn Association of America from 1910.

As a leader in the playground movement he
was a tower of strength and worked as hard as
if he were a staff member.

It has meant much to the playground move-
ment that from 1910 until his death it has had
the whole-souled leadership of the late Ioseph
Lee. This is the tribute the playgrounds of Ham-
ilton, Ontario, pay to one who did so much for
the children for the last 27 years.-—~—Hamilton'
Ontario, Spectator. “:

I . A

 

Moses in the Bulrushes

Joseph Lee Writes on Peace

HIS investigation of peace propaganda has
not gone half far enough. . . . For its insidi-

ousness and the depths from which it
springs are unbelievable. Only the other night
while staying at a hotel I found upon the table
in my room‘a black and sinister looking volume
——the only reading matter gratuitously supplied
by the management except directions for get—
ting hot water, hotels in Florida and trains. In
turning over the pages, the very first sentence
I came upon was this: "Blessed are the peace--
makers, for they shall be called the sons of
God.” Nobody who has listened to the debates
in the Senate could be misEd by the latter part
of this statement. But not all our people can be
so privileged. A little further along I came upon
this astonishing ejaculation: "Glory to God in
the highest and on earth peace, good will to-
ward men.” Again I read: "Peace I leave with
you, my peace I give unto you." Indeed, the
whole book, especially the last chapters of it,
was infected by statements of similar import.

I found afterwards upon investigation that
one of these volumes was gratuitously supplied
in every room by some society. Who paid for
them? Whoever he was, he must have had a
motive, and a motive, as is well known, is one
of the worst symptoms of moral depravity that
a man can show. Who could it have been but
some of these peace propagandists—undoubt—
edly England or League of Nations or Wall
Street or something of that sort. It should be
looked to.

But this is not the worst. This same insidious
influence has crept into our schools and attempt-
ed to poison the mind of youth with these peace
notions. The words of American statesmen and
even of American soldiers, taken out of their
context and thus seeming to countenance the
peace propaganda, are being read to innocent
children and recited by them. The words, "Let
us have peace," attributed by the pacifists to
Gen. Grant, are even carved in stone upon his
monument on Riverside Drive for all the world

to see. . . . Similar sentiments are ascribed to
Washington, who is being mentioned as first in
peace as well as first in war. Even the perni-
cious three—word essay of Gen. Sherman is be-
coming widely known among the rising gener-
ation.

But most flagrant of all is an alleged quota-
tion from our great war lord, Abraham Lin-
coln, in which he is represented as talking
about "Malice towards none and charity for all,
binding up the nation's wounds," and indulg-
ing in other such pacifist twaddle. Imagine a
red-blooded, two-fisted, 1231/2 per cent Ameri-
can talking such stuff as that!

Mr. Editor, we are up against a bigger task
than we had imagined. The roots of this propa-
ganda stretch far back into the past and spread
over our entire history. The doctrines to which
I have alluded are being taught not only in the
schools, but in the churches. They have in—
vaded even the home, and peace is now a fre-
quent subject of conversation around the sacred
hearth. It will require the united strength of all
our senatorial prophets . . . . it is not already
too late. '

JOSEPH LEE

From “The Boston Herald,” February 10, 1924.

February 13, 1924

Dear Mr. 8—:

The Playground Association has not spent a
cent in furthering the Bok propaganda.

Personally I do not believe that peace would
be such a bad thing, but we are not guilty of
promoting it.

Yours very truly

lOSEPH LEE
581

592 IOSEPH LEE, CITIZEN

Joseph Lee, Citizen
BY HON. JOHN F. FITZGERALD

Member, Boston Port Authority
Former Mayor of Boston

Y recollection of Joseph Lee while in Bos-

ton public life is of the most pleasant
character. We were of the same mind in the
matter of improved recreational facilities for the
masses of the people, particularly the children.
My first act when I was a member of the Bos-

ton City Council in 1892 was to secure the“

passage of an apprOpriation of $500,000 for the
establishment of the North End Park.

Later, when I was in the Mayor's office, Bos-
ton established in 1910 a recreation depart-

ment as a means to offset social evils by pro-
viding counter attractions for the leisure hours
of young people. At that time the National Rec-
reation Association, of which Mr. Lee was
President, urged upon all cities the establish-
ment of comprehensive recreation departments
that would work with the schools and other
community agencies to develop the best man-
hood and womanhood while giving the children
and grown-ups more opportunity to enjoy nor-
mal living conditions. It was not until my term
that the city built the zoo at Franklin Park and
the aquarium at South Boston, indicating the

new spirit of which Mr. Lee was a great part. '

There came, too, additional playgrounds in
different sections of the city,- indoor baths and
gymnasia; public celebration placed on a'per-
manent basis; Christmas Eve and New Year
celebrations out of doors on Boston Common,-
the establishment of social centers to include
all districts of the city, and summer games and
outdoor swimming meets for boys and girls.

Other evidences of the new spirit were the

founding of the Municipal Athletic Association,
the establishing of the Municipal Baseball
League for Boys, the inauguration of park walks
and cross country hikes for juveniles. Practi-
cally all these features were new to Boston,
and the Park Department took on the name of
the Park and Recreation Department. The aim
was to reorganize the entire recreation service
of the city so that the municipal gymnasia,
parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, concerts and
all other resources might be so administered
as to produce the maximum results for the
peOple. Mr. Lee initiated many of the develop-
ments mentioned, and in all of them his influ-
ence was felt.

Boston was most fortunate at that time in hav-
ing as a member of the School Committee
Ioseph Lee, whose fame was nation-wide as
the advocate of recreation for all the people.

Fishing with I. L.

(Continued from page 525)
was a gentleman on the wharf who had arrived
in a houseboat and wanted permission to pho-
tograph our catch. We returned to the wharf
and found a stout Jewish gentleman and his
family posing with his fishing rod beside the
amberjack. He wanted something to show his
friends when he returned from his cruise, for he
had been unlucky! I. L. cheerfully gave permisl - '
sion and he would always chuckle contentedly
when this episode was recalled.

~

I doubt if I. L. would have taken so many
"days off” if I had not kept at him to join me,
and the same may be said of W. P. B. On
judgment day my strongest plea will be that
some credit is due me for keeping these two
men from entirely exhausting themselves in
middle life. These holidays for them, and holy
days for me, I claim prolonged their usefulness.
To be sure, I. L. was seventy—four when we last
went fishing, but if we had fished a little more
often, we might have kept it up still longer.
W. P. B., with whom I have spent more time, is
still an active servant of his fellowmen at
eighty-two, and Opened the hunting season ;
with me this year (1937) as usual, but I. L. was 1 j
unable to go fishing, and never can again un— ‘
less in the Elysian Fields, where I am afraid
I shall not join him. If only I had tempted him
oftener!

  
  

From Jacob Riis in 1902

(Continued from page 530)

prophesying that school and playground willl
yet be drawn together. That is what we are
coming to—did come to in New York this past
season with a rush that almost took the breath
away from some good people,- quite unneces-
sarily, for on that road lies safety. For which
also we owe Mr. Lee and his work thanks.
Truly, we are much obliged to him.

About Community Service of Boston
(Continued from page 545)

who wanted to act, finding plays for them, help-
ing them with the acting and staging, and
showing them how to make costumes at little
cost.

Mr. Lee was always especially anxious to\
. t,

 

WS-v—d‘

W

LOOKING BACKWARD OVER JOSEPH LEE’S LIFE

keep our general aim in view, and not to allow
us to drift into becoming entirely an executive
office that had charge of certain jobs. I remem-
ber well his complaining that in all the many
years he served as a member of the Boston
School Committee they only once spent as
much as ten minutes discussing the aims of
education. As a result of this feeling, the Di-
rectors' meetings of Community Service were
highly intertesting discussions of the exciting
ideas and suggestions of Mr. Lee and- Mrs.
White—ideas which gave rise to a wide variety
of activities.

Mr. Lee always gave his personal support
in backing up every plan, whether it meant go-
ing to see'the Mayor to ask for help from the
City for the pageant on the Common, or lunch-
ing with a group of boys' workers from the set-
tlement houses who were forming a city-wide
Boys' Work Conference, or attending an aircraft
tournament or toy boat races. He especially
enjoyed the large events such as the pageant
on the Common and the International Music
Festival.

Along with his philosophic thought his many-
sided capacity for enjoyment had, I suppose,
a great deal to do with Joseph Lee's strong
desire to help others find ways to enrich their
lives. This made him a most fascinating person
with whom to work.

Joseph Lee, Creative Philanthropist
(Continued from page 547)

of a remedial or curative nature. He was never
satisfied with the ordinary, humdrum methods
of doing work—or, too frequently, pretending
to do it—and kept constantly in mind the one
objective—results. “

Joseph Lee was first in many things. We have
lost a leader. Many causes are now calling for
leaders. We may only hope that others will
arise to carry on.

Impressions by a Staff Member

(Continued from page 558)

discussion a member of his family announced
that a dory he had ordered had arrived. That
was the end of the discussion! Off he went to
wade into the water to see the boat safely
anchored and gloat over its perfections.

It was there at Cohasset that we came to feel
the fascination of clipper ships as, under the

583

spell of Mr. Lee's descriptions, we trod the
decks of these romantic ships, sailed the ocean
wide and adventured gloriously! A few days
later there came to us a copy of the book,
"The Maritime History of Massachusetts”—one
of our most cherished possessions.

We shall miss Joseph Lee always. But the
inspiration he gave us, the understanding of
the deep meaning of play, the appreciation of
beauty which was his heritage to us, will ever
be with us. And somewhere in another world
we shall think of Joseph Lee delighting kindred
spirits with his

”. . . . talk of many things,
Of movie stars and clipper ships,
Of Socrates and Kings!”

Looking Backward over Joseph Lee's Life
(Continued from page 559)

work of Joseph Lee, his associates, and the

members of the National Recreation Associa—

tion.

Their original calls to action have been

heeded.

"In the planning of our cities the children
have been left out."

"Every child is entitled to a safe place to
play.”

"The boy without a playground is the father
of the man without a job."

These challenging phrases were not cold
news, but hot propaganda when national opin-
ion was in the making under the leadership of
the vigorous young man, later the kindly old
gentleman president of the National Recreation
Association. As some of the original goals have
been approached new objectives have been set
and the recreation movement grows and ex-
pands.

As I sat on the Board of Directors for the last
twenty-five years I observed that Emerson was
right when he said "Every institution is the
lengthened shadow of one man.” The National
Recreation Association is the lengthened shad-
ow of Joseph Lee.

At the head of the Directors' table sat Joseph
Lee, with long typed agenda before him. Mr.
Braucher was explaining the pros and cons of
the question of whether the Recreation School
should be continued in New York or should be

584 THE GENTLE HUMOR OF JOSEPH LEE

put on wheels and sent to every city that
wanted it. This was a highly debatable ques-
tion and of far-reaching importance. Yet so
clearly did Mr. Braucher put all sides of the
problem and so precisely did Joseph Lee hit the
mark with his humorous sallies that a unani-
mous decision was reached. The decision was
never regretted. These Board meetings were
regularly attended for twenty to twenty-five
years by many of the same men and women.

Joseph Lee never told a funny story and never'

spoke a dull sentence. As a presiding officer he
was unique. He either sparkled or was silent.
He always seemed happy and on the point of
entering some delightful adventure. There was
about him a sense of "just around the corner
something grand is about to pop out and sur—
prise us all.” He was young to the last. He was
ever questing after—what?

“Few there are who ever snare it with a song
Though for the quest a life is not too long."

The Gentle Humor of Joseph Lee

(Continued from page 562) ‘

seems no substitute, but won't expression with-
out self often do?"

The chapter on “singing mothers” he ear-
marked, ”I think there is quite a problem of the
gap between straight community singing (not
howling with a jumping-jack to lead) and the
very musical. This seemed to fill in.”

Obiecting to unnecessary capitalization he
wrote, "I think capital letters make the idea less
digestible—sort of stick out and create estrange-
ment—not as bad as scientific but a little high
hat.” He was no stickler for the niceties of
grammatical forms, however, as indicated by
another insertion, "Don't let anybody scare you

out of splitting an infinitive,- it is right. Anyway.

I think so."

All recreation workers who have attended the
National Recreation Congresses have been ex-
posed to Mr. Lee. They have observed the
humorous look of the man; have felt their ears
tingle from his gibes, and fortified with his in-
sight and understanding they have gone away
with a new dimension to their work. Those of
us who knew him personally, and many on first
sight, must have felt that with him in the field
beside us we could face up to all odds.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULA-
TION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF CONGRESS OF
AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933 of RECREATION,
published monthly at New York, N. Y., for October 1, 1937.

STATE OF NEW YORK, }
COUNTY OF NEW YORK. ss.

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared H. S. Braucher, who, having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he
is the editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the
best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the own-
ership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc.,
of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above
caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by I,
the Act of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws ,
and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:  .

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, '
managing editor, and business managers are: I

Publisher, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor, H. S. Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Managing Editor, Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Business Manager, Arthur Williams, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder
the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding
one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by
a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual own-
ers must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other un-
incorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those
of each individual member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New J
York, N. Y. '

F. Gregg Bemis, Boston, Mass.: Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Car-
lisle, Pa.; Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline, I11.; Henry L. Cor-
bett, Portland, Ore.: Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonville, Fla.,- ‘
F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.; John H. Finley, J
New York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.,- Austin E.
Griffiths, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.; . ;
Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind; Mrs. Mina M.
Edison-Hughes, West Orange, N. J.; Gustavus T. Kirby, New
York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Charles .
D. Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte, N. C.:

J. H. McCurdy, Springfield, Mass.,- Otto T. Mallery, Philadel-
phia, Pa.; Walter A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Carl E. Milliken,
Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.: Mrs.
James W Wadsworth, Washington, D. C- J. C. Walsh, New

York, N. Y.: Frederick M. Warburg, New-'York, N Y.,- John G.
Winant, Concord, N. H.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other se-
curity holders owning or holding l per cent or more of total

amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there
are none, so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next aboVe, giving the names of
the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain
not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they
appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where
the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of
the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the
name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is
acting, is given: also that the said two paragraphs contain t
statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to
the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and
security holders who do not appear upon the books of the
company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity
other than that of a bona fide owner: and this affiant has no
reason to believe that any other person, association, or cor-
poration has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock.
bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this
publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise,
to paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the
date shown above is (This information is required from daily
publications only.)

H. S. BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 24th day of Septem-
ber, 1937.

[Sea1.] MIRIAM DOCHTERMANN, r"
Notary Public, Nassau County. r'

   

1
Nassau County Clerk's No. 276. Certificate Filed in New York I
County Clerk's No. 60. Register's No. 8D35. My Commissionl
expires March 30, 1938. \

