 

  

Freedom

HE RECREATION MOVEMENT stands for the “flowering of per-
sonality,” letting—helping each person to express the full beauty
Of his gifts such as they may be. We do not want a world of men

all alike. In every group we want a “minority,” even if it be a
minority of one—Whose rights are respected.

We live in a World of mass productiOn by machinery. Every
Ford car in a given class is exactly alike even if there be several mil-
lion. Every human being, every child at'the recreation center is dif-

ferent, is individual, and it is our desire to develop the difference, the
individuality. '

Mass activities—swimming, skating, dancing may be so plan—
ned as to leave each person free to be himself, to develop himself to
keep himself different, alive; or they may be used as a means of con—
trol, Of regimentation, of trying to make each person like everyone
else—the creation of a horrible world of uniformity.

Respect for personality should be a foundation stone for recre—
ation workers. A reasoned faith in human beings is essential. Con-
trol Of the many by the few is even worse in recreation than in other

parts of life. It is in recreation that democracy should have full
expression.

‘ Free choice of what one will do in one's own free time is essen—
tial. Exposure to all that is called best by the wisest—yes. But the
recreation worker should lean over backward intrying not to make
those Who come under his leadership Over into his own pattern. Let
persons because they are persons make themselves over—if they care
to be made over. Keep always the ideal of letting each person decide
for himself the activities that have life-giving power for him. Fortu-
nately men are so built that they have considerable power in resisting
external compulsion in their free time.

Freedom is a watchword Of recreationu—freedom for each indi-
vidual to grow, freedom under discipline; and freedom under a co-
operative plan to give freedom to othersas well as to oneself.

Recreation is a sorry thing when it becomes a tool for changing
men according to ideals which they themselves have neither chosen

nor accepted.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

QOVEMBER, I937

 

457

When Christmas Comes!

 

W

New Toys From Old

’ ECAUSE Santa Claus of
late has been over-
looking some children

(and good ones, too) rec-
; .~ tion commissions and
ther agencies in an in-

: 'easing number of cities

.: - helping him out in an

Ill-Hal toy—gathering, toy-

} ending and toy-distributing campaign just be-

-'vhich these volunteer “Santa Clauses” work in

everal communities will be helpful to those

5; oups who want to see that every child has some-

" hing in his stocking on Christmas morning.

Washington Is “Toy-Minded”!

They say that too many cooks spoil the broth,
‘1. numbers of cooks contributed to the Play-

round Santa Claus Shop in Washington, D. C.,
ast year, each mixing in his own special ingredi-
nt to make a perfect dish.

At the outset the Department of Playgrounds,
i which Sibyl Baker is Director, and the Con-
ress of Parents and Teachers were designated by
he Council of Social Agencies to collect, repair
nd distribute toys to needy children. The gifts
em to be distributed through requisitions from
he Central Christmas Committee.

The H. L. Rust Company lent a building to
10use the toy
shop, which was
upervised by
he playground
ngineer and
1is assistant.
The Washing-
on Herald in-
talled f o u r
telephones and
arranged for
[gas and electric
Service. Forty-
four fire sta-
:tions acted as
',eceiving sta-
;ions for dona-
tions of toys,

staple f0 0 d s

in
l

Sleighs and reindeer give way to
trucks and motors, as thousands
of modern Santa Clauses every- the
where take over the ioyful task
of scattering Christmas cheer!

ore Christmas. A description of the ways in '

‘,. REceava DEPARTMEN '
‘- gigusrwxs MOTHERS-

. manuum tom? 1

:1"
hm 7,

0£3£I2AYED

 

Courtesy Pasadena Department of Recreation

and clothing. At many of
the stations firemen mend.-
ed and painted the toys be-
fore delivering them to
Santa Claus Shop.
The toys were delivered
to the Shop from the fire-
houses in trucks, and the
Premier Taxi Company
visited over 1,224 homes in a toy-collecting cam-
paign. In order to assure the sanitary condition of
the toys, the Arcade Sunshine Laundry disinfect-
ed and cleaned over 200 cloth dolls and animals.

The toys collected from homes and from the
firehouses were not the only sources of gifts.
Various individuals and companies contributed
money and toys; children from one school sent
21 dolls and 191 other toys, while another school
donated IOO dogs and 100 dolls. Girls on the
District playgrounds dressed 250 dolls for the
Toy Shop. At the peak of the work of repairing
dolls, a group of WPA seamstresses spent two
weeks dressing dolls, .and two generous volunteers
each dressed fifteen dolls in exquisitely made
clothes. Fifteen men from the WPA sorted, re-
paired, painted and shipped toys.

Through the toy matinee conducted on Decem-

‘ber 12th at Loew’s Capital Theater with the co—

operation of the Washington Post, the Play—
ground Santa Claus Shop received approximately
2,500 toys, dolls
and gifts. The
People’s Drug
Store put boxes
for donation in
their stores and
the Terminal
Taxi Cab Com-
pany collected -
t h em a n (1
brought them
in. The drug
company also
3 e n t i n I 0 5
broken dolls
out‘of which
the repair crew
made‘ 50 good
dolls.

i459

460 NEW TOYS FROM OLD

The Midnight Treasure Hunt, conducted by
the Washington H crald Globe Trotter, in cooper-
ation with Station WOL and RKO Keith’s Thea-
ter, furnished a great deal of fun to participants
and produced approximately 300 toys, 700 articles
of staple foods, 300 cakes of soap and much used
clothing. '

To supplement the donations of the city, the
Playground Santa Claus Fund received donations
amounting to $1,800 from the Washington H er—
ald, $4I0 from the Washington Post and $39
from other groups. These funds were expended
for clothing and gifts for boys and girls over
twelve. Dolls also had to be purchased as dona-
tions alone do not fill the city’s needs.

All requisitions for toys, either to families or to
agencies, were cleared through the Christmas Reg-
istration Bureau of the Council of Social Agen-
cies. The Council forwarded requisitions for
toys for 2,229 children to the Toy Shop, the toys
to be distributed through hospitals, recreation
centers and various other agencies. Other per-
sons and agencies submitted names to the Shop,
including directors of playgrounds and recreation
centers. A number of generous people asked to
be allowed to carry Christmas to some individual
family and many volunteers helped in‘the work.
The playground staff also gave all its free time
during the month of December in carrying out
the program.

To distribute the gifts required the services of
a fleet of trucks and volunteer cars working from
December 15 until late on Christmas Eve, but
when Christmas Day came, the Playground
Santa Claus Shop was able to say that nearly
2,600 families representing 8,150 children had
been served with suitable gifts and a Christmas
greeting and every request referred to it had

been met.

“Putter Shops”

Outstanding among experiments in inter-agency
events are the “Putter Shops” initiated in Seattle
by the Camp Fire Girls, but enlisting also the
joint efforts of BOy Scouts, Girl Scouts and Girl
Reserves. While built around Christmas, many
aspects of this project could be adapted to any
season. 

The shops were based on the Christmas-giving
theory that the only truly considerate manner
of spreading Christmas cheer is that ,which
spreads the means by which needy familieshmay
plan and make their own cheer. Six neighborhood

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
     
     
 
   
    
  
   
  
  

shops were set up. Working materials were
licited from industries, stores and homes, the
lief Administration provided instructors, and
Community Fund sent out I 5,000 notices invi
families to come to the nearest shop to make
of its facilities and materials in making Christ
gifts for their families. Tools were borro
rented or brought by the families that used
shops. Schools and civic clubs lent their aid w
needed, and cooperation with the Family We]
Society was fundamental.

Fathers and big brothers made bookshe
sewing cabinets; children’s desks and doll ho
Mothers made gingham dogs and cats, special
cles of clothing and new outfits for their
girls’ old but mended dolls. Everybody, in
ing the children, made toys. Boys and girls
rolled in the agencies were used for. a variet
tasks in organizing and operating the s
which were managed by group leaders und
joint committee. The crafts and vocation trai
of the Boy and Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls
Girl Reserves was used effectively to inter
their program of community service. Boy Sc
with merit badges in printing printed the in
tions; others, working for their merit badg
photography photographed them at work, ma ;
excellent photographs for news pictures. 1
taught other girls at the “Putter Shops” to cro
or knit simple gifts for Christmas, or demonstr ‘
the making of inexpensive candy or cookies.
Scouts repairing and rebinding books would n
a good exhibit atpany season.

Collecting Toys for a County

Each year in Westchester County, New Y i
hundreds of boys and girls, through the Rec '0.
tion Commission, contribute Yuletide gifts to t
less fortunate neighbors. Since early summer
carded playthings have been piling up in the w
shop where they are to be repaired, for boys 
girls are urged to make a thorough search
their attics and playrooms. All manner of 
large or small, but especially dolls and wheel t ‘j
are welcomed in no matter what state of disi is.
gration they may be. Amateur carpenters
seamstresses, supervised by skilled workers, - i
have so transformed the old playthings as to ma'k
them look and work like new.

The project whereby children in institutions
boarding homes are made happy each Christ?
is conducted jointly by three agencies: the WCS I
chester County Recreation Commission which cij'

l

1
v
I

NEW TOYS FROM OLD

arts and reconstructs the old toys; the Westches-
'31“ Children’s Association which provides neces-
ilry materials and other assistance, and the

lunty’s Department of Child Welfare which

es care of the distribution. Local recreation
: missions conduct similar projects in a num-

p. of county communities.

I

When Christmas Eve comes around a corps of
a, icks and private automobiles will carry about

'00 presents to the county’s underprivileged

I
, D

 ildren.

A “Mile of Dimes”

'The Public Recreation Commission of Cincin—
i, Ohio, raised about $3,500 for Christmas toys

i or children in relief families with a “Mile of
fmes” campaign. A portion of downtown Gov-
rnment Square was set aside for the purpose and

veryone passing was asked to add a dime to make

.

he mile. A mile equalled $3,000, so the goal was

ore than reached. Approximately 20,000 chil-
ren were provided with toys, about 15,000 of
l hich were received from the Board of Educa-
i<.1, the toys being made by children in the upper

l

;r des and high schools in the manual training
. domestic science classes. “It was a real thrill
0 s,” writes a staff member of the Commission,
.' help distribute some of the toys and see the
011 of the children when they received the beau-
i 1 dolls, wagons, kiddie cars and other toys
I ich were to be theirs. Some of them had never
efore had a toy.”

A Community Toy Stack

The distribution of toys in Palo Alto, Cali-
ornia, was carried on under the name, “The
4| imes-Community Toy Stack.” School nurses,
lloctors, the Red Cross, the East Palo Alto Re-
ief Association, the Menlo Park Red Cross, min-
sters, and neighbors were responsible for the list
f families. The Toy. Stack had the packages de-
ivered to the homes as they came from the store,
:ach package marked with a child’s name. Prac-
.i0ally all the work was voluntary, money given
)6ng used for materials for repairing and for
gifts suitable. for older children. Many toys were
wt in repair by the firemen of Palo Alto and
.VIenlo Park.

 

Hundreds of Thousands of Toys!

A trip around ,the country with the WPA last
rear would have shown hundreds of workshops
'ivaling that of Santa himself. Altogether

H

461

30,000 workers and 725,000 toys were involved
throughout the nation. Let us look into one of
the states to see what was done.

California had a machine shop to make parts
for mechanical toys which were broken. WPA
trucks collected broken toys from tops to tri-
cycles, which, when‘ mended, were like new. A
professional costume designer planned native
European costumes for some of the dolls.

In the District of Columbia, WPA workers
assisted the Department of Playgrounds in re-
pairing toys for Christmas. .

In Indiana, sewing projects employed 120 per—
sons in making soft toys. On sixty-two recrea-
tion projects workers made toys of wood, metal
and rubber. Merchants donated boxes, paint and
upholstering material to make toy furniture.
Women workers stayed after hours and cut pat-
terns to make toys at home for their own
children.

One. hundred and one workers in Minnesota
made and repaired a total of 16,600 dolls and toys
for Christmas. Expert doll repair work was car-
ried on in a project at St. Paul. The project even
boasted a curling iron which was used to trans-
form straggly hair into delicate curls. More than
1,000 sleds were donated to the toy mending
project. . ' .

The toys made and 'mended by approximately
900 workers in! Mississippi were distributed from
Community Christmas trees planned by the Fed-
eral Music Project and the Recreation Division.
Parents'helped in selecting suitable toys_for their
children.

In Texas more than 100 men and women,
most of them past 50 years of age or physically
handicapped, were given temporary employment
on toy projects.

Wisconsin specialized in educational toys and
dolls.

In an article in the December 1936 issue of the
Kiwanis Magazine, Dr. Irving E. Miller sug-
gests the principles involved in selecting toys for
little children. They should be gay—“the bright
and rapidly moving things that delight the eye;
the noise-making things, however crude, that
excite the ear; the host of simple things that pro-
vide abundant opportunities for touch and muscle

sense.” Playthings must involve activity—ac-

’ tivity in which the child participates, in which he

gets the joy of being a cause, and experiences the
power of control.

Preparing for Christmas Celebrations

USIC, DRAMA, pageantry and dancing—each
M will play its part in the Christmas celebra-

tions to be held in large cities and small
hamlets throughout America. Many civic groups
and city officials are looking for material to help
them in preparing for Christmas Observances
which may be elaborate or very simple. Here are
some sources of information which may be help-
ful for community groups.

Christmas Plays, Pageants and Festivals

The Boy Who Found the King by Marguerite Kreger
Phillips. A Christmas play in three episodes, adapted
from the story of the same name by Raymond McDonald
.Alden. 10 men, 5 women, extras. A play that exempli-
fies humility. A beautiful story which has been con-
verted into a striking play. Samuel French, 35¢. Royalty

$5.00.

Christmas and the New Year by Nina B. Lamkin. A
book of usable program material for these two holiday
celebrations, including a brief historical background of
Christmas and the New Year, also the dramatization
“Christmas Through the Ages,” a program in which
the holiday customs of six different countries are dra-
matized and the carols of these lands are sung. Samuel

French. 50¢.

The Christmas Caravan by Edith Wathen. An inter-
esting festival which will meet the needs of those look-
ing for a holiday production introducing music, songs
and dances, calling for large groups of children of dif-
ferent ages. The story centers around an elderly man
who ‘travels around the world with his puppet children
in a gaily painted cart. The Christmas Créche is the
culmination of his puppet master’s art. The author has
included notes on the various phases of production—cos-

tumes, properties, music and the like. Walter H. Baker
Co. 35¢.

Christmas Pageants, including (1) “The Old, Old
Story” arranged in a series of shadow tableaux which
are presented to the accompaniment of apprOpriate
Christmas music and the reading of Bible verse. This
pageant has great possibilities and is suitable for pre-
sentation by adults and young people. (2) “A Christmas
Pageant,” in which the narrative
is carried by familiar carols.
Music and lighting play impor-
tant parts. May be given by
children of all ages. (3) “A
Christmas Carol Comes to Life,”
an easy pageant for children to
give. (4) “A Christmas Ballad”
to be acted in pantomime by
young children. Service Bureau,
Woman’s Home Companion. 15¢.

The Lighting of the Christmas
Tree adapted from a story of
Selma Lagerlof by Josephine
Palmer and Annie L. Thorp. 3
men, 2 women, 2 small boys. A
beautiful legendary play. For ex-
perienced players. Samuel French.

35¢. Royalty $5.00.

The Little Princess Who Trav-
eled Far to Worship the King

462

" lLike that first great Christmas carol
sung amid the stars above the plain of
Judaeal some of its sweetest echoes on
earth have sung in the open air.' so
writes Harold Vincent Milligan. Stroll-
ing bands of minstrels and troups of
little children going from door to doorl
in the streets and highways of Old Eng-
land, scattered these songs throughout
the land. and from the high tide of their
popularity in the days of Richard Coeur
de Lion till the Reformation, down to
the present day. songs and singers have
voiced the icy of the holiday season."—

Alfred C. Hottes in 100] Christmas

Facts and F ancies.

  
  
   
    
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
  

by Dorothy R. Schenck. A nativity play in one scene
men, 2 women, unseen chorus. Womans Press. 35¢.

No Room at the Inn by Esther E. Olson. A one-
drama. 2 men, 1 woman, 1 child. The story of a chi
handmade crooked-mouthed lamp which lights the
for the Christ Child in the lowly manger of Bethleh
Walter H. Baker Co. 35¢.

On Christmas Eve by Constance D’Arcy Mackay.
short fantasy in one act for young people. 11 charac
On Christmas Eve a lonely child is visited by story-b
people. Samuel French. 30¢. Royalty $2.00.

A Painting for the Duchess by Marion Holbrook.
Christmas play in one act. 5 men, 5 women and 6 .
dren. Basil, a young artist, who is asked by his
troness, the Duchess, to paint a picture of the Mado
neglects his assignment. When she calls and finds 11
ing but a blank canvas Basil is saved from-ruin o
miracle. Dramatic Publishing Co. 35¢.

Santa Claus’ Busy Day by Z. Hartman. A play in
act. 13 boys, 11 girls. The toy makers who go on st
a few days before Christmas are persuaded to go b

to work in time to get the toys ready for distribut
Fitzgerald Publishing Corp. 25¢.

The Star Gleams by Florence Lewis Speare. There
often inquiries for Christmas programs calling for la
casts of characters and few rehearsals, which are sim
dignified and moving in nature. Here is a pag
which meets many of these qualifications. The old st
is told entirely in pantomime, with singing by choris
and the audience. The scene is laid before the doors u
church or some other suitable building. Complete 11
for production have been included. Samuel French.

Three Christmas Pageants of Other Lands by H
P. Curtis and Jeanne H. Curtis. A collection of t
children’s pageants based on typical Christmas cust
of France, Italy and England, presented in outline fo
and depending entirely upon pantomime and music
carry the narrative. Adaptable for simple or elabo
production. Music suggestions included. Woman’s H
Companion. 15¢.

Three Christmas Wishes by Caroline De F. Penne .
Suggestions for a community Christmas program. it
main characters, 3 of whom are children, and extras. 7:
little girl makes a selfish wish, but the Christmas fai
come to her in a dream—ea most unusual dream
dancing and other surprises. It dispels the selfish w

Womans Press. 35¢.

The Wandering Artisan by
Marlin Butts. A simple play
two short scenes. 4 men, 2
whom are boys around lift
years of age. The story is ba
upon the legend of the Christi
Child who visits one who ‘
worthy to receive Him on i
night before Christmas. Off
great possibilities for special,
simple, lighting effects. W. M 
lin Butts. 35¢ single copy, $1 .
four c0pies. Production rig

granted with purchase of f1
COpies. in

What, No Santa Suit! t
Mary Cunningham. A short a '

act comedy. 3 men, 3 wo -
W'hen Henry finds that he is

. l
able to rent a Santa SUlt he _ ;

 

1'

rovises one. His expedients are desperate and funny.
. ramatic Publishing Co. 35¢.

The W oodcntter’ s Christmas by Linwood Taft. 2
adults, 5 children. A play in 3 short acts, centering
around a woodcutter’s family at holiday time. A strange
child is found in the woods and accepted by the family.
On Christmas morning the child mysteriously disap-
‘ ars, and in just as mysterious a manner the woodcut-

r's children find the gifts they wanted most. Eldridge

ntertainment House. 25¢.

'l The lVoolly Lamb of God by F. Fraser Bond. A play
in one act. 14 men, 2 women, a boy of 6 or 7 and a little

girl. A well-written play treating the nativity story in

'a new and interesting way. The story centers around

' 'the small son of a Shepherd who goes with his father

I o adore the Christ Child and gives Him his own toy
lamb. Samuel French. 35¢. Royalty $5.00.

. Yuletide in Other Lands and the Hanging of the
Greens. Two ceremonies for Christmas time. The first
is a series of tableaux bringing in customs of many
countries, with carols and hymns in which the audience
may join. The second is a ceremony to use when the
Christmas greens are hung. Womans Press. 20¢.

Yuletide Wakes, Yuletide Breaks by Dorothy Gladys
Spicer. A Christmas revel centering around episodes in
which eleven nationalities are represented. The author
includes full directions for production. May be as

elaborate as one desires. Womans Press. 35¢.

 

Source Material for Original Pageants
and Programs
Christmas, a holiday rich in stories and legends,
celebrated by every country in its own way, offers
great possibilities for the writing of original pag-
tiants and festivals based on these interesting and
traditional themes. A few references for such

' source material are noted.

I |Carols, Customs and Costumes Around the World
a compiled 'by Herbert H. Wernecke. A collection of 32
' carols of 21 peOples, with music. In addition informa-
tion has been included on the Christmas customs of
these peeple together with a number of pictures and
gscriptions of several native costumes. Old Orchard

ook Shoppe. 50¢.

Old World Christmas Customs compiled by Marian
Schibsby. A l3-page mimeographed bulletin offering
fairly detailed and interestingly written information about
the holiday customs and rites of people of Czechoslo-
vakia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Mexico,
Poland, Russia, Syria, Ukrania, Yugoslavia and the
Scandinavian countries. Also includes traditional holi-
day greetings in each language. This bulletin would be
,2- of considerable help to anyone preparing a Christmas
‘ program or pageant centering around any of the coun-
tries noted. Foreign Language Information Service. 25¢.

1001 Christmas Facts and Fancies by Alfred Carl
Hottes. A comprehensive book on the subject of Christ-
mas offering a wealth of authoritative material for pag-
eants and holiday entertainments. Includes in its con-
tents chapters devoted to the Story of Christmas, Per-
sonalities of Christmas, the Christmas Tree, Christmas
Tree Legends, Other Legends of Christmas, Christmas
Around the World, as well as many other chapters. A.
T. De La Mare Co., Inc. $2.50. '

The Story of Christmas by R. J. Campbell, D.D. A
book presenting the Christmas story in 'both its tandem
and modern settings. The author has included informa-
tion about old Christmas customs, the origin of the
Christmas tree, and holiday stories, carols (words) and
' verse. Macmillan Co. $3.00.

I

PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS CELEBRATIONS 463

Christmas Carols
A few suggestions are offered regarding Christ-
mas carol collections which may provide helpful
music material to be used in connection with pag-
eants or festivals based on the holiday customs
and music of other countries.

Christmas and New Year Songs compiled by Florence
H. Botsford and reprinted from “Folk Songs of Many
People." A good collection of holiday songs from more
than 25 different countries. Includes both English and
foreign words, with music. Womans Press. 25¢.

Christmas Carols from Many Countries by Satis Cole-
man_ and E. Jorgensen. A collection of 85 carols, in-
cluding old favorites and many others that are less
familiar, in various arrangements for unchanged voices.
Thirteen carols in original foreign languages. Suitable
for use by children of grade or high school age. E. C.
Schirmer Music Co. 50¢

Christmas Songs and Weihnachtslieder compiled by
Herbert H. Wernecke. A collection of songs with the
English and German texts, with music. Including
Brahms’ “Cradle Song,” “0 Tannenbaum,” the original
of “Away in a Manger," and others. Old Orchard Book
Shoppe. 25¢.

Fifty Christmas Carols of All Nations by Edwardo
Marzo. A collection of carols which may be sung in
unison or in part. Nations represented 'by a number of
old favorites are England, Germany, Holland, Bohemia,

Alsace, Austria, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Denmark,
France, Spain, Portugal and Italy. Willis Music Co. 60¢.

Folk Song Carols for Christmas, a collection contain-
ing Five Basque N oels, 12¢; Bohemian Folk Song Carols,
15¢; Five Christmas Carols of 'Old England, 15¢; Tra-
ditional English Carols, 12¢; Old French Carols, 12¢
Old Christmas Carols, 10¢; and Russian Carols, 12¢.
Carl Fischer, Inc. 75¢ for collection, or separately at
prices indicated.

Music Suggestions for the Christmas Season by Marion
Peabody. Anyone confronted with the problem of lo-
eating appropriate music for girls’ and women’s voices
for the Christmas season will find in this 27—page bul-
letin a wealth of information and material. In addition
to a bibliography listing Christmas oratorios, carols and
carol collections, dramatizations, hymns and hymnals and
suggestions as to music for different instrumental ar-
rangements, it includes information as to the historical
background of the. carol, suggestions for the “Hanging
of the Green,” a glossary of Christmas terms and other

helpful information. Womans Press. 40¢.

A Few Publications

The Christmas holiday publications noted' be-
low are obtainable from the National Recreation

Association.

The Christmas Book, a treasure chest of holiday pro-
gram material including “A Devonshire Christmas,” a
celebration for Merrie England; “A Christmas Frolic”;
the “Saint George Play"; “The Perfect Gift,” 3. pag-
eant; “A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes”;
“Stories of the Christmas Carols”; a play for young
children; “A Christmas Kaleidoscope," introducing a
large number of children in folk dancing; a list of
Christmas plays and pageants and a list of Christmas

music. 50¢.
A Candle—Lighting Service by Marion Holbrook. Free.

Play Lists. A letter noting complete information as to
your holiday play needs will bring you special bibli-

ographies and additional suggestions. Free.
(Continued on page 464)

464 PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS CELEBRATIONS

Dancing the Christmas Story

HERE ARE MANY WAYS in which the Christmas

story may be told. It may be acted in a play,
in pantomime, depicted in a tableau, or a story-

teller may tell or read the story. These are the .

usual ways. The children of Neighborhood Guild,
Peace Dale, R. 1., who have been studying in the
Music School of the Guild, chose to tell it in a
different way—with dance patterns, old modes of
music and traditional Christmas carols.

The story was told from the point of view of
the people of Bethlehem. Their response to the
wondrous events of that first Christmas Eve was
portrayed in eurythmic dancing—dancing showing
their astonishment and their curiosity following
the message of the angel. The joyous reception of
the glad news was portrayed in a wassailing song

 

Preparing for Christmas Celebrations
(Continued from'page 463)

Christmas .Music, a bibliography providing helpoful
source material for communities and groups planning
their Christmas celebrations. Free.

Sheet of Christmas Carols (words only), including
“0 Come, All Ye Faithful," “Silent Night,” “Hark!
the Herald Angels Sing,” “0 Little Town of Bethle-
hem,” “Deck the Hall,” “Here We Come A-Caroling,"
“It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” “Good King Wen-
ceslas,” ‘The First Nowell,” "God Rest You Merry,
Gentlemen.” 80¢ per hundred; $8.00 per 1,000.

Publishers’ Addresses

W'alter H. Baker., 178 Tremont St., Boston, Mass. or
448 South Hill St., Los Angeles, Calif.

W. Marlin Butts, East Boston, Mass.

A. T. De Le Mare Co., Inc., 448 West 37th St., New
York City.

Drlainatic Publishing Co., 59 E. Van Buren St., Chicago,

Eldridge Entertainment House, Franklin, Ohio,- 01'
829—15th St., Denver, Colo.

Carl Fischer, Inc., 56 Cooper Sq., New York City

Fitzgerald Publishing Corp., 11 East 38th St., New
York City '

Foreign Language Information Service, 222—4th Ave.,
New York City '

Samuel French, 25 W. 45th St., New York City, or
811 West 7th St., Los Angeles, Calif.

Macmillan Co., 60 Fifth Avenue, New York City

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City

Old Orchard Book Shoppe, 518 Lake Ave., Webster
Groves, Missouri

E. Schirmer Music Co., 221 Columbus Ave., Boston,
ass.

Willis Music Co., 137 West 4th St., Cincinnati, Ohio

Woman’s Home Companion, 250 Park Avenue, New
York City

Womans Press, 600 Lexington Ave., New York City

and the joy of little children, in singing children
carols. The cradle motive was expressed by th
rocking of the cradle by the class in eurythm'
patterns and the singing of the beautiful nativit
cradle carol, “Joseph Dearest, Joseph Mild.” T
shepherds were heard piping in the distance an
the pe0ple of Bethlehem came curiously to me
them to the music of “Come, Hasten Ye She
herds.” Then the eurythmic groups told of t
joy and adoration in a stately dance. accompani
by drum beats and the clash of cymbals. Dista
beating of drums announced the coming of t
Kings whom the populace met singing “We Thr
Kings of Orient Are.”

The adoration of the infant Christ was e
pressed in a beautiful Gregorian chant, “0 Sa
tissima,” and the flnal cradle song was sung as
solo with the entire cast kneeling in adoratio
After a minute’s pause the Christmas tree w
lighted and all joined in singing “Joy to t
World.”

I
l

i

Students wrote the Score of the carols and pr
duced them from the uncorrected manuscri
One of these students was a Negro girl of twel
another a boy of seventeen and the third a g
of twenty, all of whom had been in the Mn
School of the Guild for three years. The triangl
drums and cymbals of the rhythm band were t
only accompaniment for the singing. The dan
patterns were all more or less original and we
worked out in the theory classes as part of t
regular class-Work of the school.

A moonlight effect was achieved through bl
lights around the hall. The Star of Bethlehem 0
baby spot) hung from the center of the stage a
during the first scenes the black curtains we '
drawn so that only the star shone out. A crad
was placed in front of the drawn curtains on t
stage and a bulb put in it, to be lighted at t .
time of the adoration. The action of the play to l
place on the floor of the hall, the audience bei
seated around three sides of the room. The me ..
bers of the cast ranged from six to twenty-fix
years of age.

\

   
   

I

Costumes followed those of the time of Chri
as far as possible, brilliant colors—purple, VI
donna blue, gold, crimson, blue-green——predom£
nating. The Kings wore rich velvet robes an
the shepherds burlap tunics. All the cast wo
socks with simulated sandal straps rather th
sandals or going barefooted. N ._

f

 

t

  

  

 

'iThe Children's Recreation School

I article describes is spon-

' of Physical Education for

The Children's Recrea-
' tion School which this

sored by the Department

Men of which Professor
Frank Kleeberger is chair-
man. It is operated under
the direction of the Sum-
mer Sessions which the‘
University of California
has conducted over a
period of many years.

HE FIRST CHILDREN’S project promoted by the
Department of Physical Education for Men
of the University of California was the School
f Directed Activities conducted during the sum—
er of 1916, especially featuring Boy Scout,
Camp Fire Girl and field activities. It was neces-
sary to carry on the program on dirt fields adjoin-
ing a grove of eucalyptus trees which housed the

handicraft and other organization activities direct- .

ed by such leaders as Professor James C. Elsom
bf the University of Wisconsin and Miss Mar.-
garet Bradshaw.

Later the department assumed the responsibility
for the conduct of a so-called Demonstration
School involving the installation of outdoor ap-
paratus and the presentation of a broad recrea-
tional program such as .is conducted on a modern
playground. Adult classes observed these activi-
ties, studied the methods of leadership, and to a
small extent actually participated, under super-
vision, in the guidance of various elements of the

‘ program.

These efforts to provide wholesome happiness
and constructive experience for children, as well
as leadership training for adults, were highly suc-
cessful. ‘The University, however, gradually took
over the areas used in i'the carrying out of its
building program and the projects were perforce
abandoned.

 

By HEBER NEWSOM

Assistant Supervisor
Physical Education for Men
University of California

A New Setting Provided

In the planning of the new gymnasium for men,
which was completed in 1932, the Department
found it possible to arrange the locker, shower and
toilet facilities so that a section of the men’s gym-
nasium, complete in every way and opening di-
rectly on the swimming pool area, could be segre~
gated for the use of women and girls. This was
definitely planned because it was believed that co—
educational participation, not only of boys and
girls but also of men and women, in certain sports,
was greatly to be desired, and would soon receive
the recognition it deserved from the educational
and social, as well as the purely recreational,
points of view.

When the new $900,000 gymnasium for men,
together with a beautiful five acre turfed and
fenced field became available, the Summer Ses—
sion curriculum, under the enthusiastic sponsor-
ship of Dean Raymond G. Gettell, incorporated
not only coeducational courses for adults in swim—
ming, diving, tennis, badminton, tumbling and

465

466 THE CHILDREN’S RECREATION SCHOOL

physical education theory, but also a new and re-
vitalized physical education project for boys and
girls known as the Children’s Recreation School.
This service provides the children not only with a
most enthralling social and recreational experi-
ence, but with highly. organized and expert in-
struction in several sports and in the development
of handicraft hobbies.

Under the guidance of Professor Kleeberger
and with the sponsorship of the Department of
Physical Education, the Children’s Recreation
School has been growing and increasing in popu-
larity. The director of the school from 1932 to
1936 was Albert Dowden, while the director for
the past two summers has been Heber ’Newsom,
both directors being supervisors in the Department
of Physical Education for Men.

Enrollment and Classification

The Children’s Recreation School is conducted
for the purpose of furnishing wholesome recrea-
tion and worthwhile instruction in activities to
children during a portion of their vacation period,
the school being operated for six weeks, running
concurrently with the University of California Sum-
mer Session. Children of school grades 2 to 9 in-
clusive are enrolled, being grouped as follows:
Juniors, grades 2, 3, and 4; Intermediates, grades
5 and 6; Seniors, grades 7, 8, and 9. The enroll-
ment is limited to 225, and the popularity of the
school is evidenced by the fact that the enroll-
ment is completed six weeks before the Summer
Session starts, that time being the latter part of
June. The fee is $12.50. '

Facilities

The facilities of one of the finest gymnasiums
in the country are made available for the boys and
girls each morning, for most of the activities
courses for adults in Summer Session are given
during the afternoon hours. The oustanding at-
traction in the eyes of the youngster is the swim-
ming pool area where there are two pools, one
60 by 100 feet, and the other, the competitive
pool, 40 by 75 feet. In one end of the large pool
is a crib, so that the water is made shallow enough
to permit small children to learn to swim.

The main basketball pavilion, an immense area
of 150 by 80 feet, is made available for the danc-

ing groups. Separate well-equipped rooms furnish
space for tumbling, boxing and wrestling.

Edwards Field, adjacent to the gymnasium,
With its green velvet floor, is the scene of archery.

and games for the younger children. In one cor
ner of this large field is a temporary shed wher
numerous work benches are set up for the boy
handicraft work. The girls have their handicraf
work shop in the band room.

The clean temperature-controlled water in th
pool, the large airy inside rooms, excellent locké
service with free towels after the shower, tool
galore in proper atmosphere for handicraft, an
expansive areas for games and archery help fu
nish the youngsters with an experience they (1

not soon forget.

Faculty and Aim

The director of the Children’s Recreatio
School carefully selects a corps of twenty-one e <
perienced instructors and assistants to care pro
erly for the large group of boys and girls an
instruct them in activities. The school itself i
similar to regular school in that discipline is main
tained, attendance is carefully checked, and cer
tain pedagogical and psychological procedures a
followed. However, a creative spirit is en
couraged, attempts at proper social adjustment a
made, fun and attainment of skills are promot
and the children are not troubled about grade
failures or promotions. The teachers do keep
record of each child’s progress, attitude, deport
ment, effort, and social behavior, so that the par
ents, if they so desire, may have a report concern
ing their child or children.

The Program

   
   
   
    

The program of instruction selected is base
upon the facilities available and the interests 0 'I
the children. It is as follows: for girls—swim
ming, dancing, archery, games, handicraft; f0 '.
boys—swimming, boxing, wrestling, tumblin
archery, handicraft.

Archery. Instruction in archery is given to boy I
and girls from II to 14 years of age. With liftee
bows, live targets, ground quivers and an abund
ance of arrows, each child has a chance to shoo
several times during the daily period. The funda '°
mentals of stringing the bow, foot position, th '
hand technique and other matters are covered
After several days of practice, certain periods ar
devoted to individual scoring, ladder and group
competition, and a record of results is posted so
that more interest is stimulated.

Swimming. The school’s swimming program ,
under the direction of Mr. Jack Hewitt, Profe ,,
sor of Physical Education at Oregon State Com

5

THE CHILDREN’S RECREATION SCHOOL 467

I
dge. Mr. Hewitt has six assistants, and the seven

‘dstructors take care of about fifty-five children
luring each swimming period. The children are
ilassified according to ability and, after some pre-
" inary instruction, the youngsters are made ac-

E‘ainted with a large chart which Mr.'Hewitt has
Elvised so that the pupil may see how he pro-
resses. As soon as the child passes a certain
(st'he is credited with a blue star on the chart.
3' he completion of twenty-five tests for the be-
l; ‘ ner carries with it a gold star and a Beginners’

'* tton. During the past summer 105 children re-

eived the Beginners’ Button, sixty-five passed

he Swimmer’s Test, and five passed the Junior

 

t . . . . .
ental 1n influencmg many children to cont1nue to

ry for advancement during the entire session. At
' he conclusion of the present term the swimmers
( I C C I U I C

. 'ere given sw1mming diplomas wh1ch 1nd1cated

hust what they had accomP1iShed in Swimming

1 Tumbling. Mr. Charles Keeney, a supervisor of
he Department of Physical Education, has charge
l.- the tumbling work and gives the boys simple
land progressive instruction in forward and back-
vard rolls, head stands, cartwheels and more ad-

anced turns for the older boys. The boys are
It .iyided into groups and engage in team competi-
‘(iibn and perform various stunts for individual
oints. This splendid exercise gives the boys a
' ae outlet for the development of strength, agility,
. oordination and self—confidence.

Boxing and Wrestling. Boys of all ages in this
chool receive elementary instruction in the art of
elf—defense. Each boy boxes and wrestles on
everal occasions some opponent of his age and
veight before the end of the session. Some par-
nts are highly gratified to discover that their
igoungster who “wouldn’t fight” is persuaded to

l

dancing in Oakland. Her main idea is not that of
developing skilled performers but rather of pro-
aioting relaxation, correct posture, grace and a

1Love for dancing in its various forms.
4

Handicraft. With tools galore and competent
:nstructors, the boys engage in the making 0f
Boats, book-ends, checker boards, book cases, shoe
racks, tables, and other useful articles for the
nome. Block printing is one of the most popular

,:
l

ife Saving Test. The chart devised was instru-.

phases of the handicraft work. Mr. H. A. Sam—
met, who has had many years of experience in
teaching manual training, has charge of this work.

The girls busy themselves with clay modeling,
fire-clay articles, such as pots, cigarette trays and
bowls. Tempora work, leather tooling, soap carv—
ing, the making of block prints, painting of hinged
boxes, book-ends and raw silk table covers, indi-
cate the variety of projects in which the girls are
interested.

A Few Facts in Administration

The children are required to report to the gym-
nastics room each morning before school begins,
and there they are carefully supervised until the
classes are sent to the rooms or fields of their
activities. With problem children in the minority,
little difficulty is encountered in connection with
discipline.

Each child is required to present a certificate of
a medical examination taken within one week
prior to the opening of the school session. A first—
aid expert is always at hand to treat any cuts or
bruises. In all instructional work diligent care is
taken to protect the children from injury. When
the school is dismissed at noon, two traffic officers
are near the building to see that the youngsters
get safely across busy intersecting streets.

On the final morning of the summer session
parents and friends are invited to attend a demon—
stration of the school’s activities. They witness
a variety of dances by the girls, watch all the
classes of boys give an exhibition in tumbling,
and then they visit the handicraft exhibits. Fol—
lowing the archery exhibition, the visitors repair
to the swimming pool area where temporary
bleachers are erected about the pools so that the
parents may have a “close-up” view. Each group
then demonstrates various techniques of swim-
ming under the direction of a teacher. In this
manner, parents and others are able to get a’
picture Of what their children have been doing,
although most of the parents have a good idea
before the last day arrives, for they are frequent
visitors and observers dtiring the session.

The income from fees approximates $2,800,
while the expenses run somewhat as follows: sal-
aries, $1,500; construction, $350; supplies and
equipment, $300 ; printing, $50. While no attempt
is made at running the Children’s Recreation

(Continued on page 504)

Pin - l-lole Camera Clubs

By JOHN E. MACWHERIER

Superinfendenf of Recreafion
Springfield. Illinois

HIS SUMMER, for the first
T time, the Springfield, 11-

linois, Playground and
Recreation Commission of—
fered the children of the city an opportunity to
learn all the processes of photography from the
building of a camera to the mounting of a finished
photographic print. The instruction was free and
the only cost to participants was the five—cent
Charge for films. Interest was not confined to the
children, and inquiries were received from several
parents and from a group of city teachers inter-
ested in visual education.

Four representative playgrounds were selected
for the experiment. A total of over fifty boys and
girls, ranging in age from ten to fourteen years,
took part in the activity, and the great majority of
them accomplished successfully the building of a
pin—hole camera and the making of a photographic
print.

The Meetings

The method we used was simple and should be
effective anywhere. Announcement was made to
the children that a photographer would be on hand
the following day to talk about a camera club.
Upon the appointed day‘ the “camera man,” as he
came to be known to the children, put in his ap-
pearance. As large a mixed group as practicable
was gathered under a shade tree, and a brief pre-
sentation of the proposed program was given. A
pin-hole camera wasexhibited, along with some
typical pin—hole pictures. It was explained that the
group would meet for two hours each week for
six weeks. The only material the members were
asked to bring was one cardboard suit or dress
box, and if possible, some‘passe partout. Infor—
mation was given about the cost of the film. The
cut film was sold at five cents apiece and the print-
ing paper and chemicals were furnished.)

The Second meeting of each group was devoted
to the making of a camera. The
Eastman pin—hole camera, manu-

‘ composition of the photo. This session was c

always on the work ben
and the club members w
urged to consult it when .
difficulties in the construc
arose. We used Elementary Photography
Neblette, Brehm and Priest, published by the M
millan Company, New York.

The third week, the camera was loaded \
films and each member took a picture of a
thing.he or she desired, while the instructor l
fered suggestions as to exposure time and ‘

    
   

l

maxed by the development of their films by .
children.

The fourth meeting was devoted to making c
tact prints by the group. Each child had an a
portunity to print his own negative and one of I
instructor’s. The instructor explained the proc
of developing and printing and a question a
answer period closed the meeting. .

At the fifth meeting the prints were trimmed a
mounted for exhibition. The composition a
photographic quality, or lack of it, was discus
by the group, with the children making sugg
tions for the improvement of their own and ea
other’s pictures.

The final meeting was a photography hi
Each member brought his regular camera, if
had one, otherwise the pin-hole camera was 11 ‘.
again. During the course of the hike and the p .
nic lunch which followed, the steps for makin
photograph were reviewed and special attenti
was given those who expressed a desire to set i
a dark room in their homes.

I

Necessary Equipment

In the light of the experience gained this su
mer it is suggested that any commission wh'
plans to introduce this activity on a large sc
have several competent instructors. The size .
the group should be limited to perhaps ten at t

most. Adequate dark room 3‘
cilities should be readily avail

factured and sold by the East-
man Kodak Company of New
York for twenty-five cents each,
was used as a model. A book
containing explicit directions for
the making of the camera, was

468

Phofography has long held an im-
porl'anf place as a recreafional
aci'ivify for adulfs. If has nol'
invaded fhe playground where pin-
hole camera clubs are among fhe
mosf recenf developmenl’s which
are inferesl'ing boys and girls.

   
    

able with special attention _'t
ventilation and safe lights. Ma "
ing enlargements of the b .
negatives is practicable u.
serves to stimulate interest. l

( Continued on page 504)

  

all

 

"The unlighted schoolhouse in a community
crying out for opportunities for recrea—
tion gives food for thought. The average
school is in operation about eight and a
half hours per day. There still remain the
evening hours from seven to eleven. or
twenty-four hours per week. In a year this
available leisure time reaches the total of
l.248 hours during which a school building
could be used by the community at large."

PEN THE DOOR, turn on the lights of the local
' schoolhouse, and a beacon that Hashes out
to the whole community is created! Pro—
vide social, cultural, craft, athletic and recreational
opportunities during evening hours and citizens
will literally storm the doors to gain” admittance.

Such has been the experience of those who
launched Montreal’s first community center.
1 Montreal does not let its women vote in munici-
pal or provincial elections; it does not have com-
pulsory school attendance, but it does have a
thriving community center. In 1932 the Montreal
ParkS'and Playgrounds Association decided that
the empty schoolhouse might provide a common
meeting place where people might gather and en-
joy a wide range of leisure-time pursuits. The
Protestant Board of School Commissioners gen-
erously cooperated by placing the Rosemount
Public School at the disposal of the Association.

The Rosemount Ward, comprising the north-
east section of the city, was chosen as a district
that was interested in a community center pro-
gram. The C.P.R. Angus Shops are located in
this area, a fact which is largely responsible, for
El Rosemount’s development. More recently many
offxce workers with growing families have moved
in to take advantage of lower rentals and the
suburban character of the district.

     
    
 

We Organize

i" . 'j
. ‘9‘

ties people might be interested in, and the school-
house doors were opened to the public. Classes in
cooking, sewing, knitting, smocking, quilting,

A careful survey was made of various activi-

: basketball and tap dancing were organized for

he Lighted Schoolhouse

By STANLEY ROUGH

General Supervisor

Parks and Playgrounds Association

Montreall Canada

women and girls. Sign painting, mechanical
drawing, debating and woodworking were the
popular choices of men and boys. For mixed
groups there were badminton, dramatics, a choral
group, old-time square dancing, socials, parties
and a library.

Leadersfor classes and clubs were recruited
from the community itself and from willing vol-
unteers from other parts of the city. Struggling
craft groups came in, hnding security in the low
overhead offered. A Girl Guide Company, on the
point of disbanding because of inadequate ac-
commodation, came into the center and took on
a new lease of life with better facilities and low-
ered expenses. These and similar groups coming
into the center widened the range of the program
offered to newcomers.

Those conducting the survey were amazed at
the amount of talent and energy which had been
lying dormant simply because pe0ple had had no
means of translating them into dehnite action. The
community center proved again the old adage that
in unity there is strength.

In a short time over 500 members were en-
rolled and the director was swamped by addi-
tional applicants wishing to join. Requests for
other clubs and classes to be organized poured in.
The empty schoolhouse became a humming hive
of activity. Classrooms, the gymnasium, the music
and kindergarten rooms and even the basement
were put to use. Hobby horses for every indi—
vidual in the community were corralled in the
center.

The Rosemount Community Center has a demo-
cratic, self-governing Council. [Two members are
appointed from each group to sit in the Council,
which meets every two weeks. The Council re-
ceives financial and attendance reports from clubs,
discusses program and nuances, plans future cen-
ter undertakings, helps weaker clubs financially
and generally assists the director. This Council

469

470 THE LIGHTED SCHOOLHOUSE

has been the spark-plug of the Rosemount cen-
ter's success. \

Funds are raised in the Montreal center through
a small membership fee, group efforts and a cen—
ter-wide drive. Rosemount Community Center is
now 30 per cent self-supporting, and the executive
is working hard to make it entirely so.

The Communty Benefits

The Rosemount district lacks a public bath, .so
last spring the Council called a mass meeting of
citizens and organized a delegation representing
thirty—{ive English and French organizations to
present a petition signed by 8,000 people to the
City Fathers. This committee is now planning to
interview the Provincial Minister of Public
\Vorks, William Tremblay, to secure his support.

There is no public library in this isolated sec-
tion of Montreal. Plans are under way to have
all community groups pool their resources and
establish a public library. Montrealers have to
pioneer for public services that are taken for
granted by taxpayers elsewhere. There are still
plenty of laissez faire dragons to be fought by
leisure-time crusaders. \

The Council sponsored a monster Christmas
treat this year, at which 1,200 children from eight
English and French schools were entertained.
Members also visited all the crippled and sick
children and made them feel that they were not
forgotten during the festive season. The Council
sponsors community get-togethers when over 400
people gather and get acquainted by taking part
in mixers, ice breakers and
old-time and modern dances.

 

For its library. the Rosemount Community
Center uses one of the school classrooms

Music is supplied by the Pinewood Mountainee

the center’s twelve piece orchestra.

Montreal has a weird tradition that leases e
pire only on May first! As a result, 63,000 fa
lies move on this date. As may be imagined,
great deal of confusion ensues, and unemploy
families often find difficulty in hnding new horn
Last year a special committee of the center .
sisted forty-two of these unfortunate families r
secure a house. Members of the center also 3
sist the local playground director with handicr I
classes, and by officiating at athletic meets a |
exhibitions. .

Why'Not More School Centers?

The Rosemount experiment has proven th
school buildings are in many cases fitted to car
out a community center program. The cost 1 '
heat, light and janitor services is small, conside 
ing the facilities employed. ,-

VVith careful planning school buildings can I i
used for a great number of purposes. The “onc r
a—school-always-a-school" theory of unimagin 
tive school boards is crumbling. When go [‘
buildings are standing idle, why should a COI
munity spend sums of money for quarters th {1
are much inferior to those unused 'in a scho
building? The time is not far distant when arch i
tects will design buildings not for scholastic pu ‘
suits alone but to accommodate satisfactori
after—school community activities. Auditorium
gymnasia, lecture halls and similar facilities i
schools provide the answer to the inadequate a1

overtaxed community r

sources.
(Continued on page 504}

_The Barn Dance

Returns“!

.I
l

l THERE IS JOY and laughter, rol-

licking rhythm, sociability and

l informality in barn and coun—
, try dancing which is largely lack-
* ing in the more sophisticated so-
cial dances of today. Perhaps that

is why the barn dance is return-

ing. Once young people—and the

not-so-youngm-have been to a real

old-time barn dance, they see that their easy con-

tempt of “country dances” is ill—founded and come

to demand this type of entertainment, as the
growing number of such groups in both rural and
urban communities bears witness. From these

dances it is but a step to the folk dances of other
countries which are every bit as gay and joyous
as the American dances that have their begin—

nings, incidentally, in the European ones.

 

Invitations

The tone of the invitation will set the mood
for the party, so make it as unusual and interest-
g: g as possible. A cut—out of a barn, of a fiddler,
farm animals or dancing figures of Farmer Brown
.e (1 his wife may be used. Warn the guests to
ear comfortable shoes and old clothes or tell
‘, em to come in costumes apprOpriate ,to the oc—

1 sion. Below is a sample invitation.
l We’uns is going to have 3 Barn Warmin’ and
l

 

You’uns is invited. We'uns is going to wear
gingham aprons. You’uns do the same and tell
your man to wear overalls.

. . . . . . . . . . .Center, November 12, 7:30 P. M.

Costumes

One of the chief sources of fun,’ for the city
:lweller particularly, in a barn dance or party, is
'rhe dressing up. It is well to dress to carry out
;he theme and to insure comfort. Square dances
Ire vigorous, and guests will enjoy them more if
they wear washable cotton dresses and comfort—
tble shoes.

. For men, straw hats, overalls, jeans, blue denim
,. shirts, blue or red bandanas and corn cob pipes

‘L

 

 

The barn dance is coming back! Once
more "Old Zip Coon" and "The Ar-
kansas Traveler" ring out gaily across
the dance floor and a "caller" sing-
songs with the tune "First couple out
to the right and circle tour. Open
up and take two more." And at this
invitation the first couples swing
into the movements of the dance!

 

are appropriate. Patches are to be
encouraged. The schoolmaster, the
county sheriff, the returning coun-
try boy who went to the city and
came back a “city slicker,” and
peddlers may be there, along with
Uncle Ezra with his old-fashioned '
glasses and various other town
“characters.”

The girls wear gingham dresses, sunbonnets
and aprons, and are farmerettes or dairy maids. .
Grandma Jenkins and the village spinsters may be
there, too.

Another entirely different type of costuming
may be used. At one party some of the guests
came as animals (turkeys and chickens), while
others appeared as cornstalks, ears of corn and
the “good earth.” There are always a number of
scarecrows who add considerable comedy.

Decorations

The Barn. If you hold your party in a real barn
the problem of decoration is easily met. Clearing
a floor for dancing and placing benches or seats
or straw for the guests and lighting the room with
.farm lanterns are about all that is necessary.

Other Places. Many won’t be. able to use a barn
and will have to simulate one. This is not hard to
do, and in the doing the decorations committee
has an opportunity to use its ingenuity. And it’s
fun, too! The barn party may stress the harvest
side and depend on autumn leaves, cornstalks,
hay, sunflowers, pumpkins and gourds for decora-
tion. At other seasons and for other parties the
barn or farm theme may be carried out. Plows,
rakes, hoes and other farm tools, nail kegs (from
the hardware store) harness (or straps and rope),
saddles, wire, wagon wheels, buggies; scarecrows,
milk pails, milk stools and straw may be hung
about the walls or be placed in corners. At one
party, Wire (binder twine may be used) was
strung across the ceiling at two foot intervals and
hay hung over it, giving the effect of repeated

471

472 THE BARN DANCE RETURNS!

fringes. Soft colored electric lanterns were used.
Where straw or hay is used special care must be
taken against fire. Stalls may be made from large
cartons or be drawn on paper on the wall with
the name of the animal over the door and perhaps
a cardboard horse or cow looking out. Chicken
coops may be real or they may be made of car—
tons or‘boxwood. The inmates may be real or
made of cardboard. At one rural party a cow and
calf were tied near the’entrance to the party place.

3 ’- - - . Booths
{Should the party be a money-raising one or a

really 'rural one, the fair or booth idea may be in-
troduced." For a money-raising party, booths (in

.‘oosslN:

stall form) may be set up where
(for lcity folk) corn cob pipes,
straw hats, bandanas, aprons and
bonnets are sold. For this group,
and "for rural groups as well,
ho'me-cooke'd foods, pies, cakes,
cookies, candy, jams and jellies
and apple butter, butter, milk and
eggs and simple handwork as pot
holders, tea towels, aprons, laundry
bags and sun hats may be sold.
These booths may be run on a con-
test basis, prizes being awarded
for the best in each class. Any
booths. used should be in keeping
with the theme and may well be
of light wood or, carton stalls with
the usual double swinging doors.

An old-time rural peddler, the
kind who sold- all types of trin-
kets, may make up a pack of “white elephant” be—.
longings, donated ahead of time by the group giv—
ing the party, and Sell them to the dancers for
what he can get. He might auction them off in—
stead as at a farm auction, but the customary‘com—
mission of five per cent on live stock and ten per
cent on all else will be waived!

At one party a photographic booth was set up
in one corner. A sheet of cloth was hung up on

which was pinned (or it may be drawn) a farm-,

er’s wife’s gingham costume and beside it a
farmer’s costume. Holes were cut in the cloth
where the heads would come and hats pinned
above. A _local “candid camera” man, a sidewalk
photographer or one of the men in the photo-
graphic booths in ten cent stores might be ob—
tained to take the pictures. For a small fee guests

 

An amusing booth, or stall,
will add to the atmosphere

  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
    
    
 
    
  
  
  

put their heads through the holes and are phot
graphed in “costume.”

In one corner provide a sturdy stall mar
“County Jail.” The county sheriff wanders ab
the barn from time to time and makes an arr
for infraction of real or imaginary rules. T
culprit is put in jail and must stay there until
or she agrees to perform a stunt for the gro
or, if the party is aimoney-raising one, until
or she is bailed out by friends. '

Organization of the Party

The barn dance may be run in an informal
with teams chosen from time to time as necess
for the games. Or the party may be run 0

' “village” basis as follows:

Each of the four corners of
room should be labelled with
names of _a village, as, for .
ample, H0g Hollow, Skeeter C
ners, Podunk Junction and To
ers Village. The families gath
ing under each village sign wo
represent the Perkins from l
Hollow, the Jenkins from Skee
Corners, the Wiggins from Pod
Junction, and the Jones fa

'from Tooners Village. The P
kins family might consist
Grandpa and Grandma, Aunt
mima and Uncle Josh, Pa and
Sister Susie and Brother J
CousinLily and Cousin Abe, B '
Sister and Baby Brother, Dr. P
kins and his wife, Squire Doo

tle Perkins and his wife, Parson Sy Perkins
wife. The list may be extended for as many -
sons as are needed and the same list be used
each village by changing the name Perkins

Jenkins or Jones. As the guests arrive they .

given names and assigned to villages. If t .

come as couples, the couples are not separat '

otherwise, individuals are assigned to coup d

When the party begins the villages gather un

their village signs and become acquainted. Th J

after all contests are between villages. All Gra J
mas and Grandpas may compete in a corn sh 1
ing contest, for example.

I
l
I

l

A grand march is an excellent opening act'iv l
partners marching together. This is a good t

for judges to make notes on the costumes to "i
later awarding of prizes. 

l- Stunts, Contests and Games

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
    

These activities will add novelty and interest to
e party and may be used sparingly or other-
ise. If the group is very enthusiastic about folk
ncing it may not want to stop for many stunts
games, but to a group unfamiliar with such
ces, these games relieve the strain of trying
learn or do too many unfamiliar dances all at
ce in a straight dance program. Prizes for the
ntests might well be eggs, butter, doughnuts,
her home-cooked food or miniature farm ani-
als or farm appurtenances.

The Hungry Rooster. Have a rooster in a cage.
unt out a number of grains of corn into a pan
(1 let the rooster eat from it for 2 or 3 minutes,
en remove the pan, count the grains and find
w many were eaten. The guests have previously
written down their estimates. The closest wins.

The Farm Horse. Two boys under a blanket,
with a carton or cardboard head and a rope tail
a d a few straps for harness, may be led in by

e farmer as though into the barn. The horse
y kick and balk and the farmer have trouble
ching him to the buggy (if there is one) or
tting him in the stall. A cow may be so por-
yed as well. The horse may be “trained” and
le to answer farm questions.

Contests. Any of these contests are suitable:
otato peeling contest for women, hog calling
en), chicken and husband calling (women),
'lk drinking (using pop bottles with nipples),
d of course a contest for both men and women
r the most authentic, most original and funniest
tumes. Women or men may engage in a corn
11ing contest in which each shells two ears, or
y may race to peel, quarter and core two ap-
5. Try a farmer vs. farmer’s wife spelling bee

ith just a few on a side so the contest will not
e too much time.

Blind Horse Race. Draw a line across one end
the room for a “starting line. Near the other

d of the room stand four or five people—the
rning posts. There is a race horse and driver
E’the starting line opposite each post, the driver
. ing a woman, the horse, a blindfolded man. On
1 ‘0” the horse is pushed off in the right direction
137 the woman, who does not cross the starting
. line but guides her horse _by word of mouth, tell-
' ing him to “gee” and “haw,” guiding him thus
around his post and back. The first horse in wins.
1 Turkey Drive. Make a throwing line on the floor.
'. From this area guests throw turkey feathers, point

  
 
  

THE BARN DANCE RETURNS! ‘ 473

first, over a line some distance away. (The dis—
tance may be determined by experiment, with the .
line far enough away so that everyone will not
achieve the goal.) The group is divided into
teams and each team member has a feather. He,
throws it in turn and the team with most in the;
“barn” (across the line) after each has thrown
once wins.

Barnyard Animals. A number of familiar games
may'be adapted as is this variation of “Going to
Jerusalem.” Areas about 6 or 8 feet apart are
marked out on a circle on the Floor. One is mark-
ed “fox,” others “hawk,” “ox,” “thief,” “owl,”
“weasel,” “dog” and so on. The leader tells the
guests that they represent chickens and must walk
around the room over the spots. When the music
stops any on the “fatal” spots .are “dead” and
must retire from the game.

Reuben and Rachel. Farmers and farmerettes
form a circle with one boy and one girl in the cen-
ter. The man is blindfolded. He calls “Rachel,”
and she must answer “Reuben” instantly. Reuben
tries to catch Rachel, calling her name to find her.
If she is caught each chooses a person to'be in the
center. The characters may be called “Hiram”
and “Mirandy” to fit the theme.

Music

The ideal situation is to have an old-time fiddler
to play for the dances. Scouring your city or
community,'you may find one who is'willing to
play either for the evening or as a specialty. Some
of these old-time fiddlers “call” the dances as well.
Orchestras are next in desirability. Hill Billy or-
chestras augmented from time to time by the
“village choir” may include regular instruments,
harmonicas, guitars, mandolins, accordion or
piano. A victrola will do if the room is small. or
an amplifier is used. Suitable music for the dances
will be described below.

As special events on the program the “village
choir” may sing such familiar old-time songs as
Seeing Nellie Home, My Old Gal Sal, In
the Shade of the Old Apple Tree, with special
numbers contributed by the choir soloist and the.
Hill Billy quartet who use old-time mountain and
other rural American folk songs. A small organ
may be obtained or a saw player may be found in
the group or be invited to come and play. A sur:
vey of the group concerned and the community at
large may net very usable talents or abilities. The
rural schoolmaster might give a reading on some

474 THE BARN DANCE RETURNS!

rural. topic in the approved elocutionary style of
yesteryear.

Do not forget that singing for everyone is a
unifying and happy activity. There are the old
songs of the Kentucky Mountaineers, the south-
ern Negroes, old-time favorites such as The Old
Oaken Bucket, When You and I Were Young,
Maggie and rounds and singing games as_ those in
Skip to M y Lon, issued by the Girl Scouts. (See
bibliography.)

If you wish to add a modern note, broadcast
the whole program, songs, solos, stunts and dances
over a “fake” microphone with amplifying at-
tachments, in the style of Major Bowes or the
“Visiting Our Neighbors” program. “A wheel
from a farm disc makes a very good gong when
suspended on a rope.

Dances

Play-Party Games. While play-party games
would be described as dances today, in earlier
times when dancing was frowned upon as sinful,
the simple dances of the young folk were called
“play-party games.” As such they were considered
quite respectable and were enjoyed by young folk
at the play-parties to which they came from miles
around. They make excellent mixers and may be
used in place of a Paul Jones for matching or
mixing partners. They are easily learned, pro-
vide great fun and do not require music because
of the verses. Play-Party Games of Indiana (see
bibliography) provides an excellent collection of
these as does Section P of Handy II (see bibli-
ography) and S kip to M y Lon.

Brown Eyed Mary

 

1. If perchance we should meet
On this wild prairie
In my arms will I embrace
My darling brown eyed Mary.

II.

Turn your partner half way ’round,
Turn your opposite lady,

Turn your partner half way ’round,
And prom’nade right hand lady.

9539’!“

1-.

Formation: A circle of partners, faced for
marching, man on the inside, girl on his right.

   
   
    
  
   
  
    
 

Action: (I) 'With hands crossed, partne
promenade in a circle, with three or four feet b
tiveen each two couples.  Partners join rig
hands and turn half around, (so that man is fa
ing back, with right hand toward center, lady
opposite direction). (3) Each man joins 1
hands with the lady who was in the couple behi
him, and turns her completely around. (4) Joi
ing right hands with original partner, turn her -
tirely around. (5) Take lady behindin promena
position for new partner and repeat from beg'
ning.—.—-Described by Miss Ila Long, Thornvi
Prairie Co., Ohio.

Used by special permission from Handy II, Kit
Copyright 1930 by Lynn Rohrbough. Published by I
operative Recreation Scrvice, Delaware, Ohio.

Turn Jrhe Glasses Over

 

1. I’ve been to Harlem, I’ve been to Dover,
I’ve traveled this wide world all over,
Over, over, three times over;

Drink all the brandywine, and

2. Turn the glasses over.

C horns :

3. Sailing east, sailing west,

Sailing over the ocean,

Better watch out when the boat begins to rock
4. Or you’ll lose your girl in the ocean.

Formation: Circle of partners, men on the i
side, hands crossed in skating position. (Ri
hands joined, left hands crossed above the
One or more extra players are in the center.

Action:  1) Players march in a circle count
clockwise until they come to the words “tum t
glasses over.” (2) Then each couple “wrings
dishrag,” as follows: Keeping hands clasp
raise arms, turn away from each other, ba
wards under your own arm. (A minute’s pra
tice will do the trick.)

(3) Girls continue march in original directio
while men reverse and march in opposite dire
tion (clockwise), during which those in cent
join the men’s line. (4) On the word “lose” ea
man takes the nearest girl for his new partne
Those left out go to the center and the game

repeated.-——Virginia Bear, Wapakoneta, Ohio. ‘ ’

Used by special permission from Handy II, Kit -
Copyright 1930 by Lynn Rohrbough. Published by 0
Operative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. ' '

l
(31"
l; _

 

THE BARN DANCE RETURNS! 475

  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   

 

uadrilles. Quadrilles are danced by sets of dance collections and some old song collections.
p f‘ ur couples and are commonly known as square Some may be obtained on phonograph records.
- ices because the couples stand facing in, in a .
|. b llow, square as in the diagram (X means man; Pop Goes “‘9 Weasel
| , woman).
1
l ox
I X 0
2 4
O X
X0
3
‘ - Square Dance. The square dance involves 1. A penny for a spool of thread
W - calling of the steps by a leader as the dance A penny for a needle.

That’s the way my money goes.
Pop goes the weasel.

u gresses. These calls sing-song along with the
i ic and are composed of the necessary direc-

s and fill-ins of humorous, more-or-less per— 2- A“ arOUHd the vinegar jug.
The monkey chased the weasel.

i nt rhymes to carry the rhythm. The old call- The monkey thought ,twas a“ in fun
- r often improvised their rhymes. Many of them Pop goes the weasel.
ave been written down, and have become almost We

  
  
  
 
 
   
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
  

' raditional. The calls and explanations of their 3' {Tve “0.13m” to wait 0" Sigh;
, _ _ . - o patience to wait for bye and bye.

eaning are given With the dances described Kiss me quick, I’m oE—good-bye!
elm“ Pop goes the weasel.

The dance leader who is not experienced in (I) Fh'St Couple Step into the set and faee See“
e'ding square dances Should practice the cans ond couple. First and second couple then join
’ih a small group before the party, for the hands, circle half way around clockwise until first
eg'rner tends to go too fast, In teaching the couple is facing the center, and on the phrase
i mce, “calls” should be “w31ked through” one at “Pop Goes the Weasel,” second couple raise inside
a.time slowly to avoid confusion. It is best to hands in an aI‘Ch and pop first Couple into the

a onstrate a dance with a previously rehearsed eenter- The Met Couple then goes to the thde
(V the members of which later join other sets to couple and 50 011- HaVing Completed the I'OUHdS:
‘, p them learn the dance, If things go wrong the first couple stands still and the second goes
.i. and explain and demonstrate the confusing through the Same actions, etc.

‘ :11 again. Do not try to teach too many new Used by special permission from Handy II, Kit I.

5 Copyright 1930 by Lynn Rohrlbough. Published by Co-

a e dances In one evenmg Teach one or two operative Recreation Serv1ce, Delaware, Ohio.

 dances, review familiar ones, play games and
l j the simpler play—party singing games previ- The em | Leff Behind Me
to sly described. Include waltzes, two steps, schot-
l isches and the contra-dances or reels as the V ir-
"o Reel on the program, and, as the group be-
,i omes more proficient, set running. All these are
a uthentic activities for the barn party program,
mept some of the adapted games introduced to

provide variety and fun.

3 The music for square dances is not set in many
cases, two-four and six-eight rhythms or “jigs”
being most suitable. Most callers have three or
or four tunes which are their favorites and to
which the calls of any number of dances ht. Some
of the favorites are: Red River Valley, The
Girl I Left Behind Me, Red Wing, .Golden Singing ca”

Slippers, Old Zip Coon or Turkey in the l. The head couple lead out to the right

' . . . And balance there so kindly;
Strait; Little Brown Jug; Captam Jmks and 2. Then pass right through and balance too,

The Arkansas Traveler. These are found in And swing that girl behind you.

 

 

476 THE BARN DANCE RETURNS!

3. Then take that girl, that pretty little girl,
The girl that was behind you

4. And pass right through, and balance too,
And swing that girl behind you.

5. Then take that girl, that pretty little girl,
The girl that was behind you,

6. And pass right through, and balance too,
And swing that girl behind you.

7. Lead right home and balance to your partners.
All turn around and swing the corner,
The girl you left behind you. '

8. The second couple lead to the right (repeat 1-6)

(2) First couple walk between man and girl of
second couple,.then both couples face each other,
exchange partners and swing once around. 3)
First man keeps second girl as his new partner
and they go to third couple.

Used by special permission from Handy II, Kit I.
Copyright 1930 by Lynn Rohrnbough. Published by Co-
operative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.

NOTE: The “corner” is the lady on a gentleman’s left.
A "balance" is a step forward on the right foot, lifting
the left behind a few inches. The back foot is put down
and the front’ one raised a few inches. Partners hold
right hands and either balance to the couple in front of
them or face each other and balance toward one another
as the case demands.

Single File, Indian Style

Music—Red Wing—24 tempo
Calls:
1. First couple out to the right and circle four,
2. Open up and take two more.
3. Hurry up and don’t be late, open up and run
away eight.
. Now we’ll walk the Indian style.
Now we’ll swing once in a while.
Now we’ll walk the Indian style.
Now swing once in a while.
Now walk the Indian style.
Now we’ll swing the Squaw.
I Now we’ll walk the Indian style.
II. Everybody swing his “Minnie ha ha ha ha.”

12. Corner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’round.

.oxopcv awn-e

Directions:

1. First couple walks to second couple, joins
hands and walks around once to the left.

2. Gentleman of first couple releases the hand
of the second lady and admits the third couple
to the circle, continuing to the left.

3. First gentleman releases hand of third lady
and admits fourth couple.

4. All drop hands, form circle, face left, and
place hands on the shoulder of the person in

front. Men place one hand over their mouths
and imitate the Indian war cry.

  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
    
  
   
  
 

5. Each lady turns, faces the .gentleman beh'
and swings with him twice around.
Lady drops in line behind the gentleman .
walks around half,

As in 5.

As in 6.

As in 5.

As in 6. .

Having swung with all the other gen
in the set with these calls, each lad
swings with her own partner.

12. Each gentleman turns the lady 011 hi
who faces him, and gives her his left
They turn around once counter-Clo
and face their own partners. Each gent
gives his partner his right hand and dro
hand of the lady on the left, known a
“corner lady.” Grand right and left b
at this point.

(Repeat all three more times. Second co
'third couple and fourth couple out to the
and circle four, and so on.)

.0‘

H
5.03090?!

I—l

Refreshments

The refreshment booth may be fixed up .
stall, as the harvest corner (piled around
pumpkins, gourds, vines and corn) or be
into a dairy With the punch in huge shiny c
pans covered with white dish towels and se
by dairy maids in gingham dresses and
aprons. The tablecloths should be red and
or blue and White check. Use tin or enamel I
and plates.

As for things to eat, sweet milk, butter
doughnuts and cookies in large crocks, chees
egg sandwiches will provide a “dairy lun
Cider, with a cider press for color, and do
nuts, hot dogs and hamburgers and coffee ar
appropriate. Great pots of steaming corn on
cob will add to a; hearty barn supper. If the a
ning is Warm, and dancing often makes it so,
lemonade in crocks or grape punch is refresh

If you plan to raise money at your party
refreshments may be sold at a price to fit

group pocketbook. Dairy maids may peddle
refreshments between dances in this case.

 

Bibliography
Suitable Barn Dances ‘

American Country Dances, Vol. I—by Elizabeth
Burchenal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . z . . . . . . . . . . .

G. Schirmer Company, New York and Boston.
Country dances of rural New England with
directions and music and essential calls.

(Continued on page 505)

   

I.J

 

 

 

‘ -
t 5
. EFORE THE depression there By JOHN SHERIDAN ing institutions such as the Chi-

I were several well organ— Ch. Execuk’riv? S.e°re+ar_y cago Academy of Sciences, the
ized hiking and outing "369° Par D'Sh'd OUhng ClUb Museum of Science and Indus-

 

.: ups in the Chicago area.such try, the Field Museum of Nat-
sithe Illinois Women’s Athletic Club, the Mon— ural History, and the Adler Planetarium. People
0 Street Y.W.C.A., the La Salle Street Y.M.C. learned about the old Cahokia Courthouse, the
. and the Prairie Club. As unemployment in- Japanese buildings, the conservatories, the Elks’
sed, one by one these clubs lost their members Memorial, and yacht harbors. Old records and
i all ceased to function except the Prairie Club maps of the parks were assembled and diligently
‘ . veteran organization which was founded in read: material from public and private libraries
H I, after a group had hiked informally several was investigated, and various societies of the city
1 s before this date. There were numerous provided historical speeches and reviews. From
.' :- people in church groups and small athletic this accumulation of articles an extensive knowl-
‘ "- who made use of the Indian trails along the edge of the statues, buildings, parks and boule—
u ams near the city and who held outings in the vards was assembled.
n utiful wooded countryside. Most of these A brief outline of various objects of interest
.:-- ups, however, had dwind1ed to a few 1eaders was given to each hike leader. Here is an example
2'}; 0 were endowed with the fighting spirit which of the description of a statue of Leif Eriksen.
‘ e them the pioneers of outings in Chicago and Name: - Leif Eriksen
i. er cities. Location: Humboldt Park, northeast of the old
i r refectory building
Scul tor: S. Asb'ornsen
‘ k A Start IS Made Dongr: Citizen; of Chicago of Norwegian descent
 Vhen the need for providing more opportuni- Unveiled: October 12, 1901
.‘it’s for hikes and outings in and around Chicago Leif Eriksen, called Leif the LUCky, was a dar-
it recognized, releases were sent to the metro— ing Norse explorer and adventurer who, it is
‘1 itan newspapers, posters claimed, in the year 1000 (lis-
we e placed in parks, indus- Hiking clubs were revived in Chicago covered the American conti—

this and public places announc- during [935 and I936 when Dal-0mm nent. The Julandir-Sage rec-
liqg Saturday hikes through Nelson.DirectorotWomen'sActivities, ords that he spent a Winter 1n
the parks to end at local field Chicago Park District. set in motion New Vineland, a settlement

houses where the grOUp could like machinery WHCh [esulled in life that existed for ten years.
organization of the Chicago Park DIS- In the eveninga buffet lunch

enJOY limCh and an evening 0f trict Outing Club. Miss Nelson had , _
entertainment. Short trips of Previously been inshumenhl in organ_ was prepared in the kitchen

about four miles were made izing H19 Minneapolis Hiking Club and of a local field house for a
through the larger parks, visit— the Louisville Municipal Hiking Club. nominal sum. From 7:00 P. M.

477

    
  
 
 

478 ' HIKING IN CHICAGO '

to II :00 P. M., Guy Colby, now with W.L.S., and
his barn dance band provided entertainment for
the group. Other people enjoyed cards and vari-
ous games. These hikes attracted large groups of
unseasoned hikers because they were short and
sociable and gave strangers a chance“ to get.ac-
quainted and meet people interested in the out-of—

doors.

The Club Comes Into Being

Finally,-after several eight to ten mile hikes in
the Forest Preserves and at the Indiana Dune
State Park, a club was organized on Saturday eve-
ning, June I 3, 1936, and leaders were appointed
who had been active in attendance and work.

No one can become an ofhcer unless he is active.
Records are kept at all outings. Over a period of
eighteen months there were 846 different trips and
hikes with an attendance of 15,210 adults and
33,714 children, an average
of 65 on each trip.

The children’s program in-
cludes trips to museums,
parks and forest preserves.
Large groups of children be-
tween the ages of six and fif—
teen are taken to the pools
and beaches. Boys and girls
enjoy the same trip under the
direction of competent lead—
ers. Special parties are staged
in beautiful spots along the near-by rivers, and
foresters and nature guides explain about shrubs,
trees, animals and birds indigenous to this section
of the country. To promote a Spirit of conserva—
tion, the children’s pamphlet carries this slogan:
“The heritage of a land is best preserved by its
youth.” Many pictures have been taken of outings
and a special reel of motion pictures is available
to parties interested in this type of recreation.
Printed pamphlets contain outlined trips and de-

scriptive material as this.

GEORGE ROGERS CLARK RESERVE
Tuesday, August 10, 1937

To reach this reserve, take Lake Street surface line
car to Austin Boulevard. There take Chicago & West
Towns surface line car to Thatcher Avenue, River For-
est. Walk three blocks north to Trailside Museum, to
meet at 11 :00 A. M.

We walk north along the high bluffs of the winding
Des Plaines River and cross North Avenue. Near a
sharp bend in the river, before the advent of white men,
a small stream flowed from the northeast into the valley,
cutting a shallow V shaped ravine in the soft loam of
the flood plain. A short distance up this brook was 10-

declared. 'Every

"Among the good books for the hiker to
read are William Hazlitt's delightful
essay 'On Going on a Journey'; Holi-
day's 'Walking Stick Papers'; Brooks'
'Journey to Bagdad'; Vachel Lindsay's
'Handy Guide for Beggars'; Trevelyan's
'Walking' and Christopher Morley's
'The Art of Walking.’ Robert Louis Ste-
venson. who loved nature and walking.

person who has not
read Hazlitt should be heavily taxed.l "

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 

cated an Indian Village. The Indians used the bayou
float their canoes. In the spring many fish, buffeted
the spring freshets, moved into this inlet. The Indi
were expert fishermen and adept in the use of nets.

Other descriptions of the area around Chic
have to do with nature, geology and historic 10

Some of the Values

One may say that the first thing we learn t
is to walk- Without the ability to move f
place to place mankind would cease' to exist.
cannot obtain his sustenance from the ground
a tree or flower; it is necessary that he till the
to raise grain and vegetables. His domain 'co
the earth, the rivers and streams, the seas
oceans, even the air above the earth; the ou
doors appeals to all—the country-bred perso
the city-born man. '

One can see life and death in the space of ‘
year. In the spring Mother Nature brings f

buds, leaves, and flow
birds return from the so
lands—even fly over oce
to mate and produce t
young; animals nurture t
’young in the green past .
beside flowing streams.
the autumn chill winds fr
the arctic regions foretell
advent of winter. Again,
ure begins to protect her c
dren ; thousands of birds x
grate to the sunny lands where food awaits the
trees Shed their leaves; no longer does- sap cou
in their trunks; animals seek shelter in burro
in holes in trees, in warm nests or under buildin

To observe the workings of nature, seek
pleasure of walking through the countrysi
alone if you choose 01' in the company of int
esting companions. When you go on your va
tion in the country, take up walking. You will
well repaid.

Formality is left where the pavement en
Everyone talks to everyone else—a mutual love
the out—of—doors is introduction enough, and t
are started friendships that last for years.

Walking is one of the first physical activi
of youth and the last enjoyment of elderly peo
Walking strengthens the heart, the lungs and 
stomach. It is no mere leg training, but exerci
some two hundred different muscles of the b0 ~
Few, if any of us, will be able to walk 72 mi '1
on our Seventy-second birthday as did the vete

( C onfz'mwd on page 506) ’9

l.

l.

V
i I

l

.-

LTHOUGH man ranks high-
est on the social scale of
creation and is born with

4 ain gregarious instincts,

. l does not mean that his in-

nt social qualities and at-

. 1tes do not need to be en-

in

‘ ._ raged and exercised if they
r to develop to the fullest
1 nt. One'of the best ways
10 ' ecome a social person is to
am to know people, as they
eally are, through playing
ames and sports with‘them.
(l n playing sports together peo-
1c stand on common ground; artificial barriers
nd conventional formalities are dispensed with;
eople are unmasked, as it were, and appear be-
ore others as they really are.

Life is, in a sense, conquering new situations,

I

-.__ A A.._

1 ting many different types of people and hav- I

“i a variety of relationships with the world. It
s broadening experience to know people who
l: g out particular elements in one’s own per-
]. lity that perhaps have been hitherto undis-
, red. It is stimulating, too, to have friends
$are attractive for different reasons: some for
' hair intelligence or fascinating personality; others
or their sheer technical accomplishment in cer—
gain skills that make them welcome members'of a
‘ by grOUp. Somehow an understanding comes
e.tween friends who have taken a long hike to-
ether, who have played on the golf links, who
1 e hunted to hounds, who have been roped to-
other climbing mountains, who have sat for long
} iknt hours over a game of chess, who have talked
yer each others collections or exchanged bulbs or
plantings from their gardens. There is an over—
lahping of experience in all these relationships
that binds people closer together. Brothers and
sihers who have played with the same toys or
families who have the habit of spending some time
tcgether in a particular game or recreation are
throughout their lives kept closer together, and
lthts tie is deep-seated and lasting. '

J

i What Is a Social Game?

9 A social game is an activity the outcomes and
I motives of which lead toward better understand-

'H‘

With the arrival of the season of the
year which means the transferal to in-
door quarters of many forms of recre-
ation. interest naturally focuses on the
team games and types of social rec-
reation which will' in many parts of the
country. hold the center of the stage
during the winter months. "Why are
so-called social games important?"
"When are they not social?" Miss Set-
tonI who is vice-chairman of the Wom-
en's Divisionl N.A.A.F.. discusses these
questions and other pertinent ones.

. , Socializing a Social Game

By ALICE ALLENE SEFTON

ing and promote mutual en-
joyment, with the ultimate
purpose of establishing the
highest possible type of friend-
1y relations. A true love for
sports is best acquired by
actual participation in them. A
social game is not necessarily
always social because it is
played by two or more people,
for definite attempts have to
be made in that direction if
the influences of the game are
to be social in nature. A social
game is, in itself, a small hu-
man emergency that calls forth an interest in the
other person or team, and generates a constant in—
terplay of response which leads to better under—
standing and finer human appreciations.

When Are Social G‘ames Not Social?

Unfortunately, many games that are intrinsi—
cally excellent for creating desirable social rela-
tions and that afford exercise in quickening a
player’s reaction time and allowing interplay of
emotional reactions, have, through preventable
causes, been made a-social and many of their in-
herent valuable qualities are lost. Games in this
country got off to a bad start because they sprang
up without educational supervision and the com-
petitive element was emphasized so greatly that
many of the finer sensitive qualities were neglect-
ed. Some schools and communities have “sold”
one of their more important birth-rights for de-
veloping youth in wholesome channels because
they wanted to be personally entertained at com-
petitive ball games, or to climb, as a community,
over the hard-won laurels of young people. In
their highly organized competitive programs they
often deny adolescents the opportunity to develop
into the useful, happy citizens it is their lawful
right to become. Such communities are still so
near-sighted that they look for immediate results
as expressed in the final numerical score on the
bulletin board or in the morning headlines.

It is a different matter, however, when com-
munities conduct their competitions and rivalries
in the interests of public health. Thus one town
might choose to meet the record set by another

479

480 SOCIALIZING A SOCIAL GAME

in the elimination of preventable diseases, or
might boast of having a better water supply, or
more park space. or playgrounds, or game areas.
Through such generous acts communities are af-
fording their members opportunities to socialize
sncial games. This type of rivalry is to be com-
mended.

Basketball, for instance, as a team game is as
highly organized and skilled as any on the ex-

tensive list, and has had a high peak of popularity '

in schools and colleges throughout the country. It
therefore comes under the spotlight for many 'of
the undesirable practices and a-social results that
have sprung from the game. For example, a girl
recently told how a six-foot center in a certain
basketball game picked her up and shook her
much as a cat shakes a rat, because she was out-
playing her taller opponent. In anotlier instance a

home team who lost a game refused to keep their.

promise to provide sleeping accommodations for
the visiting team, who were forced to spend the
night in a dingy waiting-room of a small railroad
station. These young girls were left to their own
devices in a situation which never would have oc-
curred, if the school had provided an adequate
recreation program under professionally trained
educational leaders.

One likes to feel that such tales as these are ex-
ploits of the imagination and that such unsatis-
factory states do not exist in the world of sports.
One shudders to think of teen-age experiences of
this nature, and yet only fifteen years ago these
conditions were fairly prevalent. The majority of
schools now, however, do not tolerate or sanction
playing games under such conditions. It is hoped
that schools will never permit such standards to
creep back. It is esssential that a country have or—
ganized sports programs under trained leaders
who understand the needs of youth and adults——
their interests and their physical make-up. Youth
is the time for boys and girls to develop skills and
learn to conquer to the point where they will be
able to take up new sports with zest during later
life. Incidentally, they will thus avoid agonizing
moments that come to the untrained when the
gang says, “What shall we play?”

Communities should be so planned that they
will provide opportunities for all to indulge in
their favorite" recreations. Already there are en-
couraging signs that this ideal may soon material-
ize. The very fact that we are now popularizing
such games as softball baseball and touch foot-
ball shows that we are attempting to take the

. Y. Vinson in her article, “Trained Seals,” s
. that in looking back on her Fourth Olympic W

- sands of families can be seen making their

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
 

sting out of the ball and the fierceness out of .
tackle; that we are reducing the cut-throat e
ment in the competition motive and accommod
ing the game to suit the majority of people rat
than to favor the few professionals or expe
who play. The ideal today is to get away fr
the kind of situation in which the younger play
in a family have no opportunity to play ten
with a brother or sister who is constantly prep
ing for “match” play and can not risk spoil
his tournament chances by playing a single ga
with a mere beginner. .In this as in many otl
matters, a happy medium is desirable—not-to
either too good or too inexpert at a game. Mari

ter Games she felt ever more strongly that ‘
the Games become larger and more popular, t

are more and more entertaining for the spectat
and less and less fun for the competitors.”

All kinds of modifications have taken place
sports in order that larger numbers of boys a
girls and men and women may continue to enj
playing various group games. In the Pittsbu
summer playgrounds on any summer night th

to the playing fields to watch different base
games that are being played—all with soft ba
All ages join in volley ball games and infor I
soft ball play, but the majority of those who ta
part in the organized group games are those w
played when they were in school and are

afraid to enter into the sport regardless of a
lack of skill.

How Games Develop Social Qualities '
Play constitutes the major part of the you
child’s life. Often his first lessons of give a
take, sharing, kindness, thoughtfulnes, and u
operation are learned through play with his p
ents, his brothers or sisters, other children,
grown-ups. If a child develops along normal lin
he will take a decided interest in his playmates
in living things, such as animals or pets, becau
he is continually being tested by their ever chan
ing and unpredictable responses. At this peri
the desirable law of competition enters in; and t ,
competition element from then on continues to l
the biggest factor in every game the child play .1
Because he requires competition, he abando
lifeless objects in favor of games that furnish i
live, ever refreshing element—a reaction fro "

someone else which he can not figure out befor 

{1

      

l

I

l
' o

. nd and which is therefore ever interesting to
I I'm. Human beings furnish the surprise quality
flat keeps one constantly stimulated in activities
' a social nature. This interest develops into the
. I ildhood and adolescent love for team games.
l There are, of course, those who exercise alone
d like it, but many such attempts are short-
l ed. It is generally the social element in games
' t makes them outlast the generations that play
m.
' hy does one find sixteen hundred people
 hering to play shufiieboard each day at St.
tersburg, Florida? As a game it is not too
nuous or difficult for older people or the un-
‘ . led of every age, and it has the advantage of
.r mg a competitive game that can be played out-
n - rs in the sunshine, and offers a constant chal-
enge with every play; yet above all, its popularity
'3 no doubt due largely to the fact that it offers
ocial contacts and is essentially a social game. It
fiords an occasion for people to get together in a
lFsurable way. '
l A class of home women used to come regularly
' . heir community center each Friday afternoon;
would tell their leader all the housework they
‘ . l done that day before coming to class. She
ized that these women did not come for the
.l - purpose of exercise, for most of them had
I 1 every muscle at home during the day. What
a. they come for? They came for sociability——
L carefree feeling of release offered by the pro-
l: . It provided an outlet for their emotional
‘ . rgies and an escape from working in solitude
their homes. They forgot petty annoyances
(a v a temporary irritations at the first run around
' ' gymnasium; they loved feeling foolish in some
in the humorous folk dances. They seemed to
‘ t away their troubles with the first serve of the
_ ey ball or at the first jump for the cage ball,
3

'9'

49%.

  

(

by the time they emerged
f m the swimming pool they
'6. completely refreshed and
r‘elixed; they were actually
5e ted, and their spirits and
stength were renewed.

ln'often finds recreation in
:lcmg the opposite of what
fle or she has been doing
Ih'oughout the day. Those
lio lead a sedentary life
:hould cultivate sports that

i .
r .XCI‘CISC large muscles. On

Q
0

"Although there is a trend nowadays
toward 'individual' emphasis and toward
activities which can be enjoyed in solo,
there should be opportunities provided
for those who have acquired a love for
he bUSineSS man 01' W0m' team games and wish to continue play-
ing them throughout life. Just as one
can find places to swim. ride horseback.
play golf. skate or follow any other in-
dividual pastime. so the program should
provide places where one can go to play
shuttleboard. volleyball. horseshoes. ping
pong' badminton. squash tennis and
.any other partnership or team game."

. . ' SOCIALIZING A SOCIAL GAME 481

the other hand, people whose work is active and
consists in seeing people through the day may
seek solitary diversions. The history of the dance
reveals that in ages past those who did fine needle-
work or other intricate tasks concentrated on
social dances involving nothing more difficult than
the waltz and the two—steps. It was quite the 0p-
posite with those who worked in the fields. They
enjoyed working out intricate . patterns in their
dancing, and developed such forms as the high-
land fling and the sword dance.

Advantages of Social Games

If people resorted more to forgetting their
worries through social contact with a group ab-
sorbed in the same game many would need no
other cure for nervous tensions and disorders.
When one’s enthusiasm for a sport is sufiiciently
great to absorb one’s interest, for the time being
that person is an integrated personality. For all-
round development and balance, more such joyful
experiences are needed. There is a beneficial
physiological stimulation that comes with joyous
experience that renews and refreshes and every-
one needs at times to escape from the humdrum .

‘of daily cares. One can do little worrying about

the budget while sporting with the waves, drib-
bling a hockey ball down the field or shooting for
a basket. To make a new low in one’s golf score
or suddenly to be able to volley the tennis ball
more times than ever before does something to
the spirit.

A socially successful girl today is one who can
enter into sports and thereby make herself an
asset to any group. Sports or accomplishments,
like social dancing, are often the common ground
on which new friendships are made. The social
values in games cannot be over stressed, and more
opportunities are needed for social games.

Men who have been brought
up with baseball on the back-
lot as a daily diet never cease
to love the game. There are
cities where men in the Quar-

' ter of a Century Club still
pursue the game. Citizens in
these communities continue
to wrestle and box, do square
and round 'dancing, play in
highly organized team sports.
because the space, the super-
vision, the conditions exist

(Continued on page 506)

The Future of Municipal Recreation

A recreation executive looks into the future and sees
his dreams realized in a llgolden agell for recreation

By JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of. Recreation

sands of years ago;

they still play and
always will because play is a
fundamental instinct which
must be satisfied in some wholesome way. With
the forty hour week and more time for leisure,
the importance of recreation for adults as well as
children becomes more vital than ever before.
Millions of dollars are spent yearly by spectators
in witnessing prize fights, ball games and the
movies. Great numbers of people have sought
their recreation by being spectators and not par-
ticipants. They have lost in part the joy of par—
ticipation and have failed to realize that recrea-
tion is really re-creation, a revitalizing of the cells
of the human body.

During the past few years great progress has
been made in the construction of municipal
recreation facilities, but have we considered that
these facilities must be maintained, that they
must be supervised? Have we given .suf-
ficient thought to the permanent value for
manhood and Womanhood of these great assets?
Have we made an
effort to appropriate suf-
ficient funds for these
activities after
federal emer-
gency leader-
shipand funds ‘ . a  ., t if.
have ceased to r ‘  a
f u n c t i o n P '
Have we re-
.alized that
recreat’ionis
now as i111“—
portant as ed-
ucation and
that unless we
provide play—
ground direct-
ors 0r teach-
ers our young
people are lia-

482

C H I LDRE N played thou-

Department of Parks
New York City

Dreams of such open spaces as this have come
true in America's most congested city. Why
not dream more of them into being everywhere?

.- _' '. _
' gal-iua’

 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

ble to seek recreation i
unwholesome' environme

The Challenge to Soc

In our schools today

spend millions of dollars teaching art, n
crafts, dramatics, sewing, health education.
emphasize education and its aim to train fo
sure yet spend comparatively a small amou
money for continuing these interesting acti
after school hours. Thousands of childre
released from the school system each year .
being graduated or after receiving employ
certificates. Some go to college, but a great nu
receive temporary employment of one kin
another and a still greater number are unempl
All this occurs at an age of sixteen or seve
years which sociologists call the age of ap
ticeship and at a time when young people
special guidance, at a time when they need :
couragement, at a time when there is a tin :
romance, a search for a vocation. We all 1 '
what will happen when they are not given a 
l

1'»

I

portunity for wholesome recreation. The rec
of police courts, pr'
and reports of prob
officers, teachers an
r ole o :'

tell the

_ story. E
E A. V   judge, e
" . tor or soc
 -_ "' gist will
’ you that I
is a direc
. relation ‘
tween j
n ile d e
quency
c r i m e . I

-.«-a.-'." O'c-QQCQCU

o'-
‘ 1
7 7 iv » ‘

 

THE FUTURE OF MUNICIPAL RECREATION 483

show that most criminal offenders are between
the ages of seventeen and twenty-one years.

What are we doing to save these young peo-
ple? What are we doing to guide them over the
dangerous, adolescent period? Have we awaken-
ed the parents, teachers and city authorities to the
importance of the problem? Have we opened
every suitable school building for community and
recreational purposes after 3 P. M. —have we
lighted our playgrounds for adult recreation?
Have we year-round playgrounds or just summer
playgrounds ?

You will say that this would cost thousands,
yes, millions of dollars. Yes, it would. But do
not your police, prison, parole and judicial depart-
ments cost millions of dollars? Is it not reason-
able to expect'a decrease in crime if we provide
wholesome recreation for these young people?
According to statistics, few .athletes or members
of boys’ and girls’ clubs get into trouble with the
police. Those who get into trouble usually have
had no opportunity for wholesome recreation.

I need not tell you the facilities available in
many large cities. We have schools, parks, recre-
ation piers,, boys’ clubs, swimming pools, golf
courses, gymnasiums and municipal stadiums. But
are these facilities being used as widely as pos-
sible? Are our schools open after 3 P. M.? Have
they provided facilities for recreation for adults?
Have they special rooms with suitable furniture
comfortable‘for adults—rooms which could be
used as club rooms by adolescents and adults?
Have we constructed our school buildings with the
idea that they are merely to be used for the edu-
cation of children, or have we given consideration
to the possible use of these facilities for recrea-
tional and community activities? Have we stressed
the educational use over and above the community
and recreational use? Is it not possible to have
separate wings of school buildings for community
and recreational use——separate and apart from the
school proper? May we not have air-conditioned
basements of school buildings which could be
used for recreational purposes? Is it not possible
to have pool tables, billiard rooms, handball courts
in school buildings? \Nhy may not young men be
permitted to use the school workshop after school
hours?

It “Can Happen Here”!

All these things are possible. It depends upon
local organization and administration Whether the
possibility will become a reality—a reality which

depends upon the ,cooperation of municipal au-
thorities who realize the importance of this sub-
ject of municipal recreation. If we were further
to analyze the problem, we would find that it is
not necessary that all recreation be entirely free.
Small charges are sometimes made for dances,
festivals, entertainments, swimming pools and
tennis courts. Children may be permitted to take
lessons in music, dancing, arts and. crafts, at a
nominal fee. I believe the time will come when
every large city will make arrangements to per-
mit children and adults to receive instruction in
music and all the arts at a very small cost. I think
the time will come when every school building will
be constructed by school architects for not only
education from 9 A. M. to 3 P. M. but also for
community and recreational activities from 3 P. M.
to IO P. M.

As I see it, every school yard will be lighted at
night for adult recreation. Every playground will
be lighted and will be used for dances, festivals
and games. No longer will the school yard be un-
attractive but made beautiful with a border of
shrubbery and a few trees. The school building
will become the center of community life. We
shall have paid supervisors and a volunteer sys-
tem. There will be cooperation between city de-
partments to bring about the widest and best pos-
sible use of all community recreational facilities.
Adjacent to every. school building will be a park
or playground of suitablewsize. Parentsand chil—
dren will come to the school building to seek their
recreation. Each neighborhood will boast of its
track team, football team or baseball team. School
movies for children at low cost will take the place
of some of the commercial movies unsuited, in some
cases, for children to see. School gardens, back-
yard gardens will be promoted by local communi-
ties. Real estate operators will realize the im-
portance of having either a private or public play-
ground adjacent to an apartment house. As I see
it, there also will be greater consideration given to

. multiple, use of particular areas as wading pools

for basketball courts and movable posts for'ten-
nis courts so that the area may be used for diverse
purposes. Concrete or colprovia tennis courts will
replace many of the clay or grass tennis courts.
Roofs and backyards of apartment and tenement
buildings will be used for play and recreational
purposes. 3

So far, I have not emphasized the recreational
program which must include all recreational in-

(Continued on page 507)

A Singing State—Iowa!

o FARM WOMEN like to sing? Are they in—
D terested in drama and pageantry?

Could you have seen the mammoth festi-
val staged last June at the tenth annual 4-H Girls’
Club Convention at Iowa State College you would
have had the answer to these questions —an
answer in song and dance and tableau.

The festival, with script by Fanny R. Buchanan
in charge of the music program of the Extension
Service, whose contribution to the development of
music in rural districts is nationally known, was
entitled “Epochs of American Girlhood.” It was
a natural climax to this year’s Iowa music study—
“Marching Through History.” It was a genuine
tribute to the work of the Extension Service and,
as the program announced, ‘fto rural Iowa’s in-
terest in music, fine organization and longer time
programs.” “

A men’s chorus, 4-H girls’ choruses, a women’s
chorus and a festival‘chorus of 1,000 farm
women and men sang in the festival, and 1,300
4—H girl delegates from 100 counties presented
songs and folk games learned and enjoyed by
the more than 13,000 4-H Club girls they rep-
resented. Ten thousand guests from all parts of
the state and from neighboring states occupied the
stadium and saw the festival.

That a festival on so gigantic a scale could be
presented by thousands of people with but one
joint rehearsal was a remarkable demonstration
of efficiency in organi-
zation and of state-
wide cooperation.

Rural Women’s
Chorus Tournament

One of the most in-
teresting of rural Iowa’s
singing groups is to be
found in the rural wom-
en’s county choruses.
Forty-live county
:horuses wit h fr om
twenty to thirty farm
women in each took
part in the tournament
at the State Fair, and
1,102 women sang in
the tournament.

484

The high rating group in the contest

was the rural women’s chorus from

Worth County on the Minnesota line,

150 miles from Des Moines where the

fair was held. The chorus chartered a

bus and drove to the fair. Members of

this group had come to weekly rehearsals through

the winter months, some of them driving twenty

miles through deep snow to the county seat where

the rehearsals were held. When spring made side

roads impassable they cut across fields, climbed
fences and were “picked up” on the hard road.

Tournament Rules
In the tournament certain rules were strictly
observed. Any group of from ten to sixty rural
women above twenty-one years of age, three-
fourths of whom live on Iowa farms, was eli-
gible to take part in the tournament. Each group,
however, must be recommended by the judge of
the local achievement day program and selected
by the state fair women’s chorus committee.
Each chorus was required to sing “Bless This
House” by Brahe and three other numbers. An-
other requirement was that the participating
group must have appeared in public in its home
county at least four times. Each chorus leader
was asked to hand to the judge a written state-
ment listing public appearances since January 1,
1937, and telling the number of women in the
chorus and whether they met age and resi-
dence requirements. The statement also told
the number of rehearsals held each month and
the total number of rehearsals
attended by all members of the
chorus.

The group as
hearsal held t
stage is set -

 

   

Judging. The achievement day judge scored
ratings on the following points:

Quality of Singing

| . I. Accuracy of pitch . . . . . . .. 10 Superior

‘ 2. Balance of parts . . . . . . . .. IO “

3. Attack and release . . . . . . . IO “

4. Diction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IO “

5. Beauty of tone . . . . . . . . . . . IO “
50

Organizationu—Points rated from January I, 1937:
as follows:

I. Number of members in chorus (Each
unit of 5 members above the required
10 will score one additional point) . . . . . IO

2. Spirit and appearance (Superior IO,
Excellent 8, Good 6, Fair 5 and below) IO

3. Numbers of rehearsals (2 rehearsals
per month—5 ; 4 rehearsals per month
--——10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. IO

 

4. Numbernof appearances (2 points for
each appearance)—total points possible, 10

5. Each rehearsal with all members pre-

sent 2 points—total points possible. . . . IO
50
Possible Perfect Score . . . . . . . . ..IOO

NOTE: 90 to 100 points, Superior; 75 to 90 points,
Excellent; 50 to 75, Good; below 50, Fair.

Suggested Songs. The songs suggested for the
tournament held in June in addi-
tion to “Bless This House,” were

e one lomt re- “I Dream of Jennie,” by Foster;

- festival. The
ce and pillars.

 

 

"At the center and in and through the whoh
lowa agricultural extension program runs .
golden thread of music." says Mariorie Pat
ten in her book The Arts Workshop of Ruta
America. And anyone who has seen the tes
tival presented each year at the 4-H Girls
Club Convention. or who has attended the Ru
ral Women's Chorus Tournament at the Stat!
Fair. would heartily endorse this statement

 

“Turn Ye to Me,” by Pitcher; “Estrellita,” b;
Arnold; “VVon’t You Set Us Free,” by Dvorak
“An Old Violin,” by Fisher; “A German Fol]
Song”; “My Shadow,” by Hadley; “Hark, Hark
the Lar ,” by Schubert,” and “Waltz of th'
Flowers,” Tchaikowsky.

Preparing for the Music Program

Seventy-two women from forty-seven countie
enrolled in the two-day training school for direct
ors of rural music groups which was held at th
Iowa State College September 16th and 17th, th
first of this type of institute to be held. Th
women registering were directors of rural wom
en’s choruses and county and township musi
chairmen. The musical selections used for demon
strations were the songs to be sung by farn
women’s choruses next year and also music in
cluded in the 1937-38 music study for 4—H girl
and farm women—“Little Studies in America]
Music.”

“Folk dancing and folk music have been of out
standing importance among the rapidly-developing
recreational activities of farm people in this coun
try during these last years of agricultural adjust
ment. From the Agricultural Extension Divisi01
of every state colleg
in the union have com
reports of color and vi
tality added to one pro
gram or another by th
country dances 0
America or folk dance
of the old world. Lead
ership training schools
recreation institutes am
the county and dis

trict councils growing
.out of them have a]
leaned heavily upon thu
sure enthusiasm amon;

all sorts of people fo
learning folk tunes.”—
Marjorie Patten.

48.‘

Summer Honor Reading

By LILLIAN S. GRAHAM

HESE ARE DAYS when we hear much about in-
T creased leisure, and many plans are being

suggested for the employment of such leisure
in a way which will lead to richer living.

With this objective in mind the Minneapolis
Public Library, in cooperation with the public
schools of that city, has inaugurated a plan known
as Vacation Honor Reading designed to interest
children in good reading during the summer va-
cation. Just before school closes for the summer
vacation the plan is explained to all grade children
from 5-B to S-A inclusive and they are encouraged

to enter into it.

List of Books

The librarians select the books to be included in
the list provided for each grade. Each list includes
six headings—Famous Stories; Our Country and
Other Countries; People Worth Knowing; Ad-
ventures in the Outdoor World! Long Ago and
Now, and Stories. Every heading has at least
twelve books listed from which the child chooses

one.
As an example of the list, the selection of books

for the fifth grade follows:

Famous Stories

Baldwin. Sampo.

The story of a magic mill which ground out wealth
and power.

Brown. In the days of giants.

The Norse myths of Odin, Thor, Loki, Idun, Balder,
and others.

Carpenter. Tales of a Russian grandmother.
Colum. Children who followed the piper.

Crommelin. Famous legends.

The story of Robin Hood, King Arthur, The Cid,
Roland, and others.

Harris. Uncle Remus; his songs and his sayings.
Hawthorne. Wonder book for boys and girls.
Contains the best Greek myths.

Hodges. When the King came.
The life of Christ told with simplicity and tenderness.

Jacobs. Celtic fairy tales.
Kingsley. Water babies.

A classic story of Little Tom and his journey to the
“other end—of—nowhere."

Warren. King Arthur and his knights.
Warren. Robin Hood and his merry men.

486

Our Country and Other Countries
Best. Girls in Africa.
Brann. Nicolina, the story of a little girl in Italy.
Lomen and Fleck. Taktuk, an Arctic boy.
Means. Rainbow bridge. -
Miller. Children of the mountain eagle.
Morley. Donkey John of the Toy Valley.
Mukerji. Hari the jungle lad.
Peck and Johnson. Wings over Holland.
Scott. Kari; story of Kari Supper from Linde-
land, Norway.
Stein. Little shepherd of Provence.
Sugimoto and Austen. With Taro and Hana in
Japan. ii
Upjohn. Friends in strange garments.
Washburne. Letters to Channey; a trip around
i the world. i

People Worth Knowing

Baldwin. Fifty famous rides and riders.

Baldwin. Four great Americans.
Washington, Franklin, Webster, and Lincoln.

Brooks. True story of George Washington.
Cody. Adventures of Buffalo Bill.

Incidents of his life in the West among the Indians.
Haaren and Poland. Famous men of Greece.

Humphrey. Story of the Catherines.
Moores. Story of Christopher Columbus.
Power. Boys and girls of history.
Tappan. American hero stories.

Tappan. In the days of Queen Elizabeth.
Wallace. Hands around the world.

Adventures in the Outdoor World

Baynes. Jimmie, the story of a black bear cub.
Brown. Green gate to the sea. '
Chambers. Nature secrets.

F ontany. Other worlds than this.

Ghosh. The jungle folk. V. I or 2.

Hill. Fighting a fire.

Lie. Ekorn.

A simple narrative of the day-by—day life of a squirrel
throughout the seasons.

Lolig. W'ilderness ways.
Mukerji. Kari, 'the elephant.
Patch’.‘ Bird stories.

Patch. Holiday hill.
Patterson. The spinner family.

(Continued on page 508)

 

BOW AND ARROW, even in the
modern setting of an up-to-
date archery contest at some
rls’ school or college, suggest romance and the
amour of bygone centuries. The spectator may be
oking at bobbed—haired girls in middies and
orts, but in his mind’s eye he is fairly sure to
tch a glimpse of brave yeomen in Lincoln green
litting willow wands at 100 paces.

Of all of the ancient peoples who used the bow,
e Egyptians were the most skillful. They first
ployed it for war, and gained such skill with
ows about five feet long and arrows a little over
two feet that their archers struck terror to the
souls of all their enemies.

In spite of their knowledge of Egyptian arch-
.ery, there was a myth among the Greeks that
lApollo, their sun god, had invented the bow, while
Diana, graceful goddess of the chase, conceiving
a fondness for Apollo’s new plaything, appro-
priated it herself.

Regardless of .boasts about their gods, the

reeks were less skillful archers than any of the

her ancients except the Romans, who found lit—-
e use for the bow in battle and enjoyed in lei-
. ure moments more vigorous sport than shooting.

  
   
  
 
  
 

Great Britain Takes Up the Bow

It was the Romans who first brought the bow
Britain; although the English did not begin to
rse it to any great extent until after the Norman
tvasion under W'illiam the Conqueror in 1066.
iilliam himself, a colossus of a man, owned a

' ow so large that he alone could pull it, and his

ride in his prowess was so contagious that his
ew subjects became inspired with enthusiasm for
chery both for amusement and for defense.

'Tragically enough, this weapon of which the Con-
queror was so fond caused the death of his son,
William Rufus, who was killed by a stray arrow
of one of his attendants while

and his retinue were indulg-
irg in _their favorite sport,
hunting.

‘ Of William Rufus’immediate
successors, that most romantic
df rulers, Richard the Lion
Hearted, was the most skillful
archer. Many tales are told of

By AGATHA VARELA
Washington, D. C.

In the October issue of Recreation
Miss Varela gave us some interesting
facts about the origin and spread of
football and hockey. In the second
article of her series presented in
this issue she tells of archery and
tennis and of some of the traditions
and practices associated with them.

Some Sports and Their Development

his exploits with the bow. At one
time in the Crusades, leading three
hundred archers and seventeen
knights, he withstood the attack of the whole
Saracen army. On another occasion, followed by
ten men, he rushed headlong into a body of ten
thousand Moslem bowmen and was pelted so hard
that he bristled with arrows as a porcupine bristles
with quills, yet miraculously he received not a
single wound. Richard, too, met his death at the
hand of an archer, a youth who sought to avenge
the death of his father and brother, and whom the
generous Richard forgave with his last breath and
presented with a substantial purse.

Shortly after the reign of Richard, the English
began to take up the crossbow, which had mean-
while been invented and had been used to good
purposeby soldiers on the continent. But by the

.time they became accustomed to it, the longbow,

which was similar to the one we use now, de-
veloped in western England and so far outclassed
the crossbowin accuracy and efficiency that it i
made English archers for the next two centuries
the most dreaded fighters in Europe. This was the
bow which served the English so well in those
Titanic struggles of the One Hundred Years War,
Crecy, Potiers, and Agincourt, and found its way
into the heart of childhood and the realm of ro-
mance as the weapon of Robin Hood.

It seems a little pathetic that the high noon of
archery’s greatness was so soon passed, and that
by the sixteenth century the invention of gun-
powder had robbed war of the flavor of sports-
manship and the touch of glamour that the bow
had always given it. Yet it was not, amazingly
enough, until the nineteenth century that the bow
was last used in battle, when in the Napoleonic
wars an army of Polish archers was tragically
matched against the peerless fighters of France.

But even if gunpowder did replace the bow in
war, the English refused to
give it up, and began shooting
at a target for sport. In the
days of Henry VIII archery
was very fashionable, and the
King himself attended num-
erous meets. His son, Edward
VI, a sickly lad who died
young, found archery the one

487

488 SOME SPORTS AND. THEIR DEVELOPMENT

sport which his health would
permit him to . enjoy. The
young King’s diary was full of
conscientious recordings of the
matches he lost as well as of
those he won.

In the reigns of Elizabeth
and of Charles II, there were
many gala meets of which the
rulers were enthusiastic pa-
trons. Yet for a hundred years
after the days of the “Merrie
Monarch,” Charles 'II, the
noble tradition of the bow was completely ignored
by the English, and archery was kept alive on
the island only by a fine Scotch society, The Royal
Company of Archers, which is still in existence
and is honored throughout the land.

In 1781 a revival began in England, due to the
efforts of Sir Ashton Lever Who, afflicted with
some ailment of the chest, discovered that archery
was a healthful as well as an entertaining sport.
Interest has continued in England from that day
to this, so it is now fairly safe to assume that the
English will not again forget to uphold the noble
traditions of their “arching” ancestors.

pointed sticks.

In America

The history of archery in America follows the
course of its history elsewhere, in that over here
as well it was first used by primitive peoples for
hunting and for protection. For centuries the
Indian archers roamed the forests unmolested,
and not until the early part of the last century did
the white man become actively interested in the
weapon of the redskin. In 1828, a Philadelphian,
Titian R. Peale, sent on an exploring expedition
through the West, became fascinated by the In-
dian bows and arrows, and on returning home or-
ganized an archery club among his friends called
the “United Bowmen,” which prospered until the
Civil War. After peace was made, a new chapter
for archery opened When Will and Maurice
Thompson, two 'penniless Georgians .who as con—
quered people were denied the use of firearms,
and through ill health needed to live out of doors.
went into the woods with their bows and arrows
and lived as primitive, exhilarating and healthful
a life as any of our cave—dwelling ancestors. A
little book of their adventures “The Witchery of
Archery” by Maurice started a fad for archery
which resulted in the formation of the National
Archery Association, an organization that has i

"The bow has played a part in the
daily life of men since long before
the days of recorded history. Primi-
tive men in all parts of the world
- fashioned rude
branches and made arrows out of
From those distant
beginnings the bow and arrowI chang-
ing now and then in design and ma-
terialI have had an unbroken record
of use. first as a means of procur-
ing food. then as a weapon of war.
and finally as an instrument of sport."

bows

. of Italy and France during the Middle Ages.

- omitted from the pages of history books, but h

  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
    
    
  
   

been in operation from t
day to this.

Since the World War, ar
ery has spread amazingly .
particularly become such
popular sport in girls’ scho
and colleges that it is esti
ed some 10,000 girls play .
nually.

Just what the future
archery will be it is hard
predict, for in this cou
as well as abroad it has g
through its cycle as a means of hunting, def -
and sport, but whatever the future may hold, ar
ery can always hold its head high among
sports, for there never has been one which co
boast a braver history or a more glorious traditi

9

from bent

Tennis and Its Romantic History

Back in 1424, if France had had newspape
the headlines of the sport section would have r
something like this—“New Woman Tennis W
der Startles Sporting IVorld. Ace of Paris Pl
ers Using Only Bare Hand Conquers M
Equipped with Double Glove.”

This Amazon of the court, Margot by na
comes down to us through the musty pages
sporting books as the greatest tennis player
her time. Before the day of rackets she play
with her hand unprotected and could beat a
man in France, allowing him to wear a glove
bind his hand with gut. Margot’s great skill
particularly interesting to us, for in all the 10
annals of tennis up to modern times no sin
champion but she is mentioned by name.

' In Margot’s day tennis was the great natio
game of France. Men, women and children, ri
and poor alike, played constantly, but originally
was purely a sport of the nobility. As far as °
beginnings are traceable, they seem to be link
with the pastimes of the feudal kings and baro

Italy the game gradually lost its hold, but
France it maintained its popularity with the peop
But in spite of widespread popularity, tenn *
continued to preserve an appeal for royalty a
nobility which lends a touch of glamour to i ‘
history. Louis X, surnamed the “Quarreler”.b .
cause of his unpleasant disposition, who reign
for two brief and unimportant years, is usual t.

name has come down to tennis fans full of inte .,
. . }_ ‘

SOME SPORTS AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT 489 I

sLbecause his enthusiasm for the game exceeded
é wisdom, and he died from a cold which he

‘0 . .
ght while playing.

 

;nlCS of the realm played constantly for huge
A es, and when they lost their fortunes they put
 their costly clothing rather than give up the
» e. Their embarrassment was rendered doubly
fr te by a law which forbad court gallants playing
their shirts. A similar law passed by the
urch Council of Sens forbad monks playing in
ir shirts and in public.

n the days of Henry II, skillful as were the
rat nobles, the King far outshone them, and his—
i'y records that if the King had forgotten his
sition sufficiently to enter the general champion-

ip matches, he might well have won. His
ther, Francis I, who matched his pomp and
lendor against Henry VIII on the Field of the
' 0th of Gold, also played tennis in his less, spec-
cular moments, as did his tragically weak grand-
n, Charles IX, and his noble and daring suc-
ssor, Henry of Navarre.

Louis XIV, “The Grand Monarch," whose
urt was the most magnificent of all Europe,
- 1 ed to play the game which his predecessors
 so enjoyed, but in tennis as in all other ac-

ies of the King, the ceremony attending a
t e was so elaborate that the actual play be-
t e unimportant. His Majesty had his private
.o rt, he had a carefully coached court dignitary

. presided over the game, and he had a special
,' ey who handed him his racket. When things
we to such a pass that the King could not even
' ' up his own racket, tennis was doomed to
‘ dence in France. It became a mild and in-
mid pastime rather than a vigorous trial of speed
i I skill, and consequently steadily lost in pop-u-
I'ity. Royalty had ruined it.

  

i

   
  

l The Sport of the Tudors

 Back in the days of Louis XIV’s sporting an-

« .
astors, F ranc15 I and Henry

l,’ tennis had traveled to
Itland, and there the Tu-
31% eagerly took it up.
{enry VII, the first of the
tutors, was a miserly man,
it he recorded again and
gain in his account books'
:a-vy losses in tennis. His
amous son, Henry VIII,
ay-ed from his early youth

I  the reign of Charles V, all of the great

"In France tennis developed such popu-
larity that courts were built all over
Paris, laws were passed permitting citi-
zens to play only on Sunday so that
the rest of the weel: they would attend
to their honest laborsl and the King,
due to widespread complaints from his
good people about the poor quality of
their tennis balls, was forced to issue
an order that all balls should be made
of the best material obtainable."

until his portly figure {would no longer permit, .
and always bet heavily. Certain of his courtiers
with an eye to business brought some skillful.
Frenchmen and Lombards into court to play with
the King. Henry lost consistently for a while,
and his courtiers, betting against him, lined their
pockets with gold, but he discovered the plot at
last, and in righteous anger dismissed the foreign
players and the crafty-courtiers together.

Today at Hampden Court in London there still
stands the tennis court which Henry VIII built
in 1529. Though used even today, it is yet peopled

.by the ghosts of the past, for Henry played there

himself, Elizabeth the Queen watched many
matches_from the luxuriously fitted gallery, the
martyred Charles I, and his son, the “Merrie
Monarch,” used the court often, and Albert, hus-
band of Queen Victoria, habitually frequented the
historic-old place.

A Revival of Interest

In England in the eighteenth century, as in
France, tennis declined in interest, only to be re-
vived in 1874 by a meeting of enthusiasts at
Londs’ Cricket Grounds. They revised the scor-
ing, changed from rubber balls to flannel covered
ones, and developed the shape of the court from
the sort of hour glass which they then used to the
rectangle we play on today.

Tennis Comes to America

That same year tennis was first introduced into
America by way of Boston. Six years later the
first open tournament was held, and in 1881 the
U. S. National Lawn Tennis Association was
formed.

The game has gone far since the days when
players achieved commendation for “passing a
ball backward and forward eighty—three times be-
fore grounding it,” when men wore long tight
trousers and high stiff collars on the court, and
women appeared for their game in broad brimmed
hats, corsets and voluminous
skirts, instead of shorts.

New faces, new figures—-
Tilden, Cochet, Vines, Perry,
Suzanne Lenglen, Helen
Wills Moody, Helen Jacobs
-——have constantly flitted
across the tennis horizon.
Every season new players ap
pear, each with an individual

(Continued on page 509)

A Plan for a Chamber Music Society

FEW OF US have at various
times during the past few

months been talking over

our interests in cham-
ber music playing. Out
of our talking has
grown a plan for a
chamber music society
which I have been ask-
ed to present to you.
This plan, be it under-
stood, has grown di—
rectly out of our en-
thusiasm for chamber
music playing itself.
(No one wishes mere-
ly to exercise his or-
ganizing ability or to
be a president or to
gain prestige or mate-
rial profit of any kind.)

By A. D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

The plan is given here exactly as it was present-
ed by a group of fifteen amateurs including two.
recently graduated from a high school orchestral
four professional musicians interested and experi-
enced in chamber music playing' the director of
music in the public schools. a university official

‘who is expert in matters of administration, and

the music chairman of a recreation commission.
The chairman of the meeting was a distin-
guished scientist and amateur chamber music
player. and the secretary was a professional mu-
sician. The meeting was started withthe playing
of two movements from a String Quartet by a
group comprised of two students and two high
school graduates. and it was closed with the play-
ing ofa short Vivaldi Suite for two violins and piano
played by adult amateursl followed by a Mozart
Quartet played by the first group mentioned.

playing. We assume that one i
the main interests of a chamb
music lover is to explore mo

of it.

When appropri
there could be so
brief informal ta
about the music
which, among oth
things, m a t t e r 5
style and phrasing a
also especially lov
or otherwise' intere
ing features in i
music could be brou
to attention and de
onstrated. The mu
to be played by l
specially practic
groups could be . -
nounced in advance

‘J

Purposes

One purpose in this
plan is to make it possible to have every now and
then such a gathering as we have this evening for
musical enjoyment, a sharing of enthusiasms, for
further inspiration and enlightenment and for fel-
lowship. While this is not the first or even most
important purpose we discussed, I will describe it
first because we are in a measure carrying it out
this evening. The things we have thought of as
happening at such a gathering are as follows:

1. One or more specially practiced groups to

Play

The music they are to play should include some
compositions generally unfamiliar, as well as some
well-known works, all of it, of course, excellent
and very enjoyably done. The less familiar music
played in a year’s gatherings would include some
fine works by old masters such as Corelli, Purcell,
Vivaldi andthe still older and wonderfully in-
spired Frescobaldi, but also new works, especially
some by our American composers. It could, inci-
dentally, be a fine sort of stimulation to our com-
posers to know that such a way is being used to
introduce new-chamber music to many amateur
players. Thus the members of the society would
have a ready and delightful means of being intro-
duced to more music worthy of their interest and

490

 

that members wish
to do so could bri I
scores or parts to read as they listen.

  
   
  
  
  
  
     
 

There might sometimes 'also be what can
called vocal chamber music such as the madrig
and other contrapuntal choral music of the I
and I‘7th centuries, or later chamber choral wo %
with instruments—Bach Extended Chorals a
the Cantatas, Pergoleci’s Stabat Mater for wo l
en’s voices and strings, various works by H '
and Vaughan Williams; also works for vocal s
with a chamber instrumental group.

2. All members having brought instruments.ot
besides those in the specially practiced gro
would be given Opportunity to play in small gro
——playing a well-known quartet or the like, or a l .
familiar work such as those mentioned above,

a work requiring unusual instrumentation lik '
sextet, septet or octet, some of which would i

for,one or more woodwind instruments as wellI
strings.

A committee in charge of the whole progr
might choose beforehand some or all of the m L
bers who are to be invited to play in a small gr .
on a certain evening, thus ensuring a good ma l
ing of players for the music chosen, and a r .
tion of opportunity. This committee would se A,

l.

 

. A PLAN FOR A CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY 491

i. lso that enough simple but substantial music is

sen from time to time to provide opportunity
sl 0 for less advanced players.

l 3. A work for a larger number would also be
I t yedI in which many, perhaps allI of the members
‘ ld take part. Examples of such works are the
. ch, Handel and Purcell Suites for String Or-
stra, Concerti Grossi by various composers,
t ozart’s Eine Kleine Nachtmusik, Sinfonias
1 m the Bach Cantatas, Holst’s St. Paul Suite
. a other old and modern works for chamber
a ' hestra.

  

4. A brief talk related to chamber music. or in-

al demonstrations of musicianly phrasing or fig-
ng given by a masterly player

* 5. Occasionally a reception to a great quartet or
other professional chamber music group when it is
'n the city. or even to a great soloist

At such a reception there would be some play-
ing by the honored guests if the conditions for it
w.ere in every way apprOpriate.

Sociability, including simple refreshments

o.

A second purpose we discussed is to provide
lat might be called an “Amateurs’ Exchange”
ough which a member or incomplete group of
mbers wishing to play might find the addi-
t nal players needed. A trio or quartet wishing
play music for a quintet, sextet or larger group
ght likewise be served.

This purpose ‘could be carried out through
intaining an annotated list of players who are
erested in it, and also incidentally through ac-
intanceship and arrangements made by players
t mselves at the society gatherings.

A third purpose is to aid in making the printed
sic available.

\
t

M

l The society itself might build up a loan library
its own, doing so through donations or ex-
ded loans of music or through funds to‘ pur-
se music. Arrangements might also be made
a special edition for the chamber music society
certain works such as were mentioned earlier,
t are not now in common use. These arrange-
nts would provide for purchase of any of
se works by any member‘ at the cost of pub-
ing them, though outsiders would have to pay
them at a rate giving profit to editor and pub-
er. If the public library or other agency has
. a good ensemble music to loan, a list of it might

be kept by the society for the convenience of the
mbers.

W‘-

J

59-3

l
l

H?

A fourth purpose is to aid in the procuring of
good coaching where it is desired.

A love of playing chamber music leads natur-
ally to a wish to play it better and to enlarge one’s
eXperience of such music. An excellent player
who can help carry out this wish, doing so in the
amateur spirit, is very welcome indeed where that
love exists. For example, a two-weeks school of
chamber music held in Bangor, Wales, this sum-
mer was attended by thirty-nine amateur quar-
tets, every one of which had forty-live minutes of
expert coaching every day. The rest of the time
was spent in private practice. The evenings were
devoted to concerts by the Menges Quartet for the
delight and inspiration of the amateurs and their
tutors. This school has been held each summer
for nine years with ever-increasing popularity.

A selected list could be kept of players capable
of coaching amateur chamber music grOUps. These
players might be professionals, advanced students
or advanced amateurs. Ideas as to most desirable
ways of coaching could be shared with these play-
ers, and the cost of their service would probably
be low because of their interest in the character
and purposes of the society and because of the
society’s service in helping to arrange for their
engagements.

Another purpose is to have available, if pos-
sible, for members’ use, a number of violas and
perhaps some other instruments not commonly
owned but often much needed. There might also
be need for help in finding suitable places to “re-
hearse,” such as in community centers, settle-
ments and churches, for groups not wishing to
play in their homes.

For What People?

The people, all amateurs, whom we have
thought of as being served by these purposes are,
first, persons who already play in chamber music
groups; secondly, persons who play in orchestras
but have not been playing in any chamber music
group, ,though they would be interested in doing
so in addition to playing in the orchestra; and
thirdly, persons who at some time have learned to
play an orchestral instrument 'well but because of
preoccupations with other affairs or else lack of
suitable opportunity are now not playing. Among
those last mentioned there are likely to be many
young graduates of high school or college orches-
tras, graduates of music schools, and young men
and women who studied with private teachers.
Some of them and other interested people, though

492 A PLAN FOR A CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY

unable to play chamber music, would be happy to
play simple ensemble music such as the slower
sections of Suites by Handel, Purcell and others,
and the slower madrigals, Bach chorales and other
choral music “apt for viols” as the Elizabethan
choral composers used to say. Through this
music and individual practice the less advanced
players could soon grow into playing real chamber
"music also.

We feel that the phenomenal increase in the
number of young people playing substantial music
in school and college orchestras offers opportunity
for a development of amateur musicianship in
homes and elsewhere out' of schools that, besides
its deep satisfactions to those who play, would do
more {Or musical culture in our country than any-
thing else could do. It is commonly assumed by
these young people and by most other people that
the only way to provide continued opportunity
for them is through an orchestra. And such pro-
vision can, of course, be of great value. But there
may be great difficulty in securing a capable con-
ductor suited to all, and also in obtaining a prop—
°er balance of instruments and combinable levels
of skill among those who want to play. More-
over, because of the size of an orchestra and its
need to give public performances, the members
often have to undergo pressures and constraints
from outside themselves, and to bear also the risk
of disbandment because of failure to get adequate
or worthy audiences. The small fellowship of real
amateurs is free of these prices and perils of big-
ness. Its pressures toward excellence are likely to
be as strong as those of an orchestra, but they are
from within the players themselves, and so are
deeper and more transforming of the individual
and of the music. In any
event, it is chamber

. ness and sensationalism.

   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
 

It may be said that in many instances the i j
strumental instruction of the school and colle l
graduates has not been what is should be, that
also has of necessity tended strongly toward b'
ness,which, though impressive in its general effe
may be detrimental to individual development. B
assuming this to be true, though not true in so
schools, there is all the more need to bring ab
in the world outside the schools an interest
playing in the small group with its obvious .
welcome need for excellence on the part of -.
individual. If this interest is developed and gi
standing outside of schools there is every li -
hood that, under present conditions in the scho
it will find. its way into more of them. Th
might well be a junior chamber music society i
school, or players in school chamber music gro :
might be given junior membership in the outs
society, the community’s fellowship of 5
players.

We have thought that by far the largest prop
tion of the interested people would be string pl
ers, but there would also be pianists and perha
harpists and there could well be woodwind a
horn players also. And their major interest wo
be in playing in their own respective groups
home. The gatherings, such as the one of t
evening, would occur only seldom, and the me
bers would be under no obligation whatever
attend them.

We would reach players, to invite their int
est, through acquaintanceship, through the le
ers or other officials of amateur orchestras, a
through the cooperation of high school, colle
and music school officials.

Are You Intereste

Now you have hea

music that we are at
present .most enthusias-
tic about, and so we
would like to see what
could be done through
providing attractive op-
portunity to play such
music. A chamber mu-
sic society could give to
this ideal pursuit the
happy standing, the
prestige, which we be-
lieve it needs in the
midst of the prevailing
tendency toward big-

SOME OUTCOMES OF THE MEETING

Progress has been made in putting the plan into
effect. The room in which the first meeting was
held, a moderate sized art gallery in a building
owned and used by a private art organization, will
be available without charge for future occasional
meetings of the society. One of the amateurs and
two of the professionals who own large libraries of
chamber music have offered to put much of it in
responsible charge of the society to be available
for loan to students. The music chairman had of-
fered aid in secretarial work. and free use of of-
fice space has come from the university official
and the Recreation Commission. A-steering com-
mittee of seven was appointed and a date was set
for the next meetingI at which there will again be
music. the committee will report. and the project
will very likely be set into organized motion.

 
  
 
   
   
   
      
  
   
  

the purposes. We ha
a plan for carryi
them out, but bef:
presenting it we wo
like to know what y
think of theidea of h I
ing a chamber mu
society and of these p
poses that have led
to think it a good id
Unless a goodly nu
ber of amateur mu '
- 5
c1ans would welco %
such services as we ha '2
mentioned, and pr '

l.‘
,1

I
3 I
|
, l'
O
I l

   
 

g.

  
 
  
  

   
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
  

for others as well as for themselves, there
Id be no warrant for going further with the
. And the attitude of each of us who is here
evening would be an important indication of
amount of interest we are likely to find among
er amateurs.

hat do you think of the idea in general, of
ing a chamber music club or society? (Discus—
is invited.)

f you think well of the idea, let us now con-
r each purpose in turn and what would be
ded to carry it out. Then we shall be ready
er to consider a definite plan and definite next
5 for giving reality to our ideas, or to decide
t, as least so far as the present gathering is
cerned, we have already gone far enough. In
er case we will have had a pleasant evening of
sic and can go home in a pleasant mood.

Material Needed

Suitable place
File and cards
Printed notices

Parpose

therings and
ograms

Stationery
Typewriter
Desk
Postage
Office space
Telephone
ateurs’ Exchange
rary Binders and labels
ching
truments

ching More Players Printed statement

ection and Control

Definite Planning If Warranted

What suggestions have you for supplying any
the expense items without cost? (Secretary to
suggestions.) ‘

Which of the expense items could we do with-

t, at least in the beginning?

What suggestions have you for getting money
carry the cost of the remaining expense items?

Now, it seems, a plan of organization for our
rposes is already clearly implied in the chart of
rposes and needs that we have made and dis-
ssed. There should be an executive committee
which the chairman might be presiding officer
meetings. This committee should have a vice-
Chairman also, and a secretary and a treasurer.

‘ l

A PLAN FOR A CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY ' 493

There should also be various committees to per-
form such specific functions as we came upon in
the chart, the chairman of each of these to be a
member of the executive committee. But no com-
mittee should be appointed until it is really need-
ed. That is all that is needed for organization.

I suggest that the present chairman be asked
to appoint a steering committee to go over the
whole plan still more carefully, to determine for it
some such simple form of organization as has
been suggested and to consider what other espe—
cially capable persons might later also give special
help to make the project successful. It should also
gather information and conceive ideas as to as
many of the following items as are regarded nec-
esSary in the beginning: the reaching of more
players, raising funds, securing coaches and music
and instruments, ofhce space and other equipment,

Purposes and Needs

Expense I fem:

Rent
Part—time secretary
File and cards

H el 1: Needed

Committee to choose
Secretarial help
Program committee

Talks and demonstrations Printing
by masters Stationery

Typewriter
Desk
Postage
Rent
Telephone

Secretarial

Secretarial Music purchases

Committee to choose Binders and labels

Committee to choose

Secretarial

Secretarial

Someone to present Printing
plan to groups Postage

Part—time salary for
executive secretary

Executive committee
Executive secretary or
. the chairman of

Executive Committee
Treasurer

and last but not least, a good secretary. A modest
and simple beginning nurtured by real enthusiasm
for the playing and fellowship will likely lead to
larger, better and more lasting growth than a big
one hard to manage.

I stiggest also that another such meeting as we
have had this evening he held soon, at which the
steering committee will report and be ready to set
the project in motion. The time for that meeting,
and if possible the place, should be determined this
evening. A program committee to make that meet-
ing as interesting and worth while as possible
should also be appointed either within or outside
the steering committee, but if outside, the chair-
man of it should also be a member of that
committee.

A New Community Center For Negro Citize

By HARRY K. PARKER

0R MANY YEARS Greensboro’s
Negro population has felt
the need for a community center building
where recitals and winter and indoor recreational
activities could be held'and where the members
of the community might 'meet for fellowship and
discussions of community needs. Public school
buildings and college gymnasiums were helping‘to
meet the need but facilities were inadequate.

Two years ago the Greensboro Recreation Com-
mission, of which Daniel Neal is director, the city
manager, the Reverend R. T. Weatherby, civic
leader, and engineers and workers of VVPA be—
gan planning for a new recreation center. Funds
were provided by the city and WPA for the build-
ing which cost $60,000.

Last August the building and swimming pool
were completed. There were opening daywcere-
monies and celebrations which included dedica—
tory exercises, a water exhibition’,’ and a inspec-
tion of the new plant. Thousands/3f people at—
tended, including city, school and WPA officials,
community leaders and members of the com—
munity. The new center was named the Windsor
Community Center and Pool in memory of the
late William Windsor, who in years gone by had
worked indefatigably to provide wholesome rec-
reation facilities and activities for the city. It was
a momentous day for Greensboro. At last the

Negroes of the Gate City had seen their dreams
come true!

The Summer Swimming Program

The center began its brief summer program of
activities, which lasted only 24 days, with swim-
ming and water activities in the beautiful, spa—
cious pool, opening with a gala swimming and
diving exhibition at night when 2,000. people
gathered under the gleaming flood lights to see
the spectacle. The pool, which is 100 feet wide arid
175 feet long with a depth of fromi'z to II

feet, is well equipped with diving boards and
towers, filters, pumps, a

chlorinator and a draining
system. The basket room con-
tains 1,000 hangers to azc—
commodate as many bathe'rs
in a day. In planning for
dressing rooms a partition

494

Mr. Father. the director of recreation
of;the Negro Divisionl Recreation Com-
mission' Greensborol North Carolina.
tells how a dream of many years at last
came true in the recent opening of the
Windsor Community Center for Negroes.

   
  
    
     
  
      
   
  
 
  

was set up in the center of
auditorium of the building (1
ing the floor into two parts, one for use as (1
ing rooms for women, the other for men. C
matting was laid on the floors. As the men’s
Women’s, shower rooms and lavatories have
venient openings to the auditorium on the
spective sides, this use of the floor space pr
exceedingly practical and satisfactory.

The staff personnel of the swimming pool
bered twenty volunteer and regular workers
cluding four Red Cross life guards, cashier, 10
room attendants, inspectors of bathers, a dir
and an assistant. A total of 5,000 bathers .
I6,000 visitors attended the pool and grounds
24 days.

The public supported the pool whole-hearte
and it became the talk of the city. A fee of
cents for adults and I0 cents for children \
charged bathers, with half price on ladies’ day a
boys’ day and special rates to groups, clubs a
picnickers. The pool was open from ten in 1
morning to ten o’clock at night, the swimmi
season concluding ori Labor Day with a group
about 400 people taking a final plunge. Mu
sent through amplifiers from a combination pho
graph and radio in the ofhce added to the delig
of swimming.

Twenty local and near-by churches held p
nics and outings on the grounds surrounding t
center which provide tennis and paddle ten
courts, playgrounds, picnic grounds and baseb
diamonds.

A Rich Indoor Program

With the close gf the swimming season, .
rangements were made at once for indoor recr
tion and civic activities. The partition separati
women’s and men’s dressing rooms was tak
down, mats were rolled up, and ball and gal
courts were marked on the floor. Both club r001
and office were arranged to accommodate cl
" ‘ activities, handcraft grou 
and educational classes.
public mass meeting to 
troduce the indoor progr
of activities to members v
the community was held "

(Continued on page 509) . W
i?‘

 

Izata by Jack Spencer, WPA, and Art Whitmer, NYA
l

uDon't: Double Your Show!”

      
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

8 THE GIANT Hoodlights
flashed on, they revealed a
spectacle of colorful pag-
antry when the entrance parade
 Chico’s 1936 playground circus started its dig-
itied march. Frém the opinions of the early
dmers who were drafted to help pin up paper
ostumes or smear grease paint on hundreds of
xcited children in the hub-bub of back stage pre-
aration, to the unasked for praise of several civic
aders and the outspoken platitudes of the news-
aper reporters, the circus was declared an out-
tanding success.
l, Hundreds of parents traveled home happy and
lil‘OUd of their performing offspring; countless
umbers who helped in the dressing or served in
he concessions went home tired but pleased at
haring the success of a community venture. In
{he traffic delays caused by the attempts of a third
If the city’s population to get home from the cir-
us at the same time, people who had seen noth-
(ng of the color of recreational art before re-
narked at the brilliancy of the costumes made
rom paper and cheese cloth and colored with”
alsomine. They drove home amused by the fun
'f the acts, pleased that the towns’ children could
‘ ke part in such an enterprise. The circus of

.1

By RALPH E. HENSLEY
Superintendent of Recreation

Chico. California

1936 was a success, even in the
balancing of its profit and loss
sheet. In an after—circus party
for the circus director, bigger
and better plans were laid for 1937.

As was the case a year ago, the day of the 1937
circus was sweltering and the evening warm.
Again the cool football turf seemed to refresh the
waiting crowd packed into the grandstand and
the rows and rows of portable bleachers. The
three rings repeated their successes of countless
children in clever acts, as the bigger circus of 1937
got under way. Amazed, a breathless crowd
watched the opening parade—a parade that was
longer, more colorful and with more variety than
the previous year. Seventeen acts involving hun-
dreds of lines and actions climaxed themselves in
one grand tableau that rivaled professionalism.
Eight elephants, eight zebras, sixteen horses, as
compared to four elephants, two zebras, and four
horses, show detail changes that characterize the
total changes of the circus. More concessions,
bigger painted back drops, larger side shows, ex-
pansion in every detail—a bigger circus this year.
Again at the end of the show people rushed to
congratulate the directors, exclaiming that‘it was
the greatest show ever!

495

496 “DON’T DOUBLE YOUR SHOW!”

But we knew better!

It was Too Big!

From those final, frantic moments of getting
everything ready for the opening we knew that
we had made a mistake. Our show was too big!
With mouth full of pins and with needle in hand,
the director looked at the makeup assistant and
her assistants, at the lines of excited, ever—moving
children awaiting their turn to be made up, and
nodded her head as much as to say, “what in the
world are we going to do with them?” More help
was needed; more diplomacy was imperative. The
leaders furnished it! Last minute scurrying for
costume repairs or properties, and hurried searches
for performers through the masses of children
backstage, proved without a doubt that our show
was so big that it was cumbersome!

In ’36 we vowed that on top of our success we
would double our show in ’37. Ambition nearly
worked us to death! Doubling the size did more
than double the work. More costumes, more ma-
terials, more equipment, and more instruction
gave the task of putting on our doubly-big circus
four times its previous difficulty. Our art leaders
needed child help in the craft classes to paint cos—
tumes ; our dramatic leaders needed many of the
same children to work on their routines, and
mothers claimed that we were stealing all the
children’s hours. Two leaders would seek the
same piano, and the directors were using every bit
of all their diplomatic powers to keep everybody
happy in the final hours of preparation. Each
leader’s teaching load was tripled and consequently
their hours increased; other phases of the regu-

lar playground and community program were
neglected.

Our largest problem came in the middle of our
last month of rehearsals as one of the directors of
dance, dramatics, art and tumbling came to the
circus director for a skit re—write. Something had
to be done for the children who were not skilled
enough to keep up with the routines that the aver-
age youngster could learn. Last minute revision
of acts thrust in many parts that were purely
background sections. It had'to be, yet it was dif-
iicult to explain to parents that their children were
unable to learn fast enough to keep up with the

average. It had not dawned on us before that
such a circumstance would arise. It arises in

,loss sheet at the end of the year showing t,

athletic teams regularly; in music classes; in d
matic classes. But in each of these instances
poor performer was shoved into the reserve 1
\Ve, on the other hand, were pledged to use
who wanted to participate!

And Costs Were Doubled

The ballyhoo, news stories, and the three ri
remained the same in their cost as in 1936,
all other expenses were doubled. To prepare
a double crowd we had to transport mov
bleacher seats which meant more emerg

labor costs than ever before. The larger e
ment meant more time for installation and
cost. Twice the number of costumes made
purchase of twice the amount of material 11
sary. With all the considerable help of [the N
and WPA much additional labor had to be hi
As the first rehearsal of our show under the li
showed us that we would have to have at 1
two dress rehearsals, we found our light 1
tripled over that of last year.

As our show went off, we estimated that
cost was slightly more double that of the I
Show. Our income is made by taking a collec
and by. the selling of the concession materials r.
side—show attractions; thus we are able to «v
within our policy of free public recreation.
keep our books balancing for our ’37 show
would have to gross over twice our last ye
receipts. Approximately one-third of our in
porated city limit population attended our
show. We dared not hope we could double
attendance but we planned to seat and stand a
half the city’s adults. We had them too, but
found no relationship between the collect'
taken from one-third the city as compared to u
half the city. The “take” was only slightly a
that of ’36, so we went royally in the hole.

.‘

  
   
  
  
 

True, though, our taxpaying citizens receiv
pleasing view of its newest public service,’so f
that viewpoint we were quite satisfied with
double circus. But next year we plan to p0
and cut, using the surplus children in the con .
sions and side shows, and we will have a b
show more' efficiently operated, with a profit

black.

80 don’t double your show until you have v 

1.

sidered the scope of your community and p I
grounds! Q

"t
0
.I
II

I.
1

 

.1

  
   
   
   

l
i.
I .
HEN THE ANNEX was added to the Corn-
" wall, New York, High School in 1929, the
voters were promised its use as a com-
nity center. During the depression there came
increased demand from young pe0ple leaving
chool for the opportunity to continue in the eve-
ings the activities they had previously enjoyed
t the school.

The population of the school district is about
,500, 800 of whom are voters. From surround-
ng areas about 6,000 people may be drawn upon
' 'dr center activities. Many, of Scotch or English
igin, are connected with the carpet mill or with
er industrial plants. There are six schools,
I lic and private, live churches, a,h05pital, a
ming area, a sprinkling of professional people,
I - characteristic Main Street population, and a
more or less affluent summer residents. Apart
a n1 a handful of chronic objectors, the people of
~ community have a strong social conscious-
s, shrewd intelligence and a desire to achieve
- best possible in community accomplishment.

   

  
   
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
     
      
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

 The First Steps Are Taken

‘The demand for basketball in the gymnasium
I 1 early this year to the appointment of a com-
" tee of the Board of Education to study the
1 v ation. At its May meeting the board approved
 committee’s report authorizing a referendum
‘1 i e. Letters were sent to each of the fifty-six
1 anizations in town inviting them to come to a
in ting to discuss the organization of a com-
I nity council, and notices were put in the papers.
ryone interested in community welfare, it was
ounced, would be eligible for membership in
council. To a representative gathering ex-

ation was made of what a community center

5
(m
m
H.
so
1-!-
(D
B
(D
:3
Hu-
O
H)
on.
O
m
r-1
0..
"D
Q.
8
\<
2
a:
m
B
a:
a.
(D

‘The District Board of Education must main-
tii ‘full legal responsibility for school property
, np all that transpires therein or thereon.

’ l
i
4

community of 2,500 people proves that size
not the determining tactor when it comes
securing a community recreation program!

.' Small Community Achieves lts Goal!

By ETHEL BURNS BREED
Chairman. Recreation Committee

Board of Education
Cornwall. New York '

“The Board of Education resolutely refuses to
have activities of the Community Center in any
way encroach upon the successful fulfillment of
the regular school program.

“Inasmuch as the school staff of faculty and
building custodians have their working energies
fully occupied by the day-school program, the
duties of the Community Center shall in no way
devolve upon them.”

The National Recreation Association helped
with advice and a speaker. One large and several
informal meetings were held, a commencement
speaker talked on the subject, and six seniors
held a panel discussion on their future use of
leisure time. Pamphlets were distributed and a
house-to-house campaign was made.

A successful referendum vote resulted in se-
curing the $2,000 asked for. The referendum
read:

“Shall the District, in order to authorize the
use of the school building, its facilities and equip-
ment for a Community Center, appropriate a sum
not to exceed $2,000 and not less than $1,200 to
cover all expenses incidental to the supervision,
operation and maintenance of same, for as long
as the appropriation lasts ?”

With the vote successfully accomplished, the
Community Council elected its executive commit-
tee of five members to cooperate with the com-
mittee of the Board of Education. Acting jointly,
they approved the following budget which was
later ratified by the board:

OCTOBER I—APRIL I, 1938

 

Director’s salary . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 900.
Building Custodian . . . . . . . .. 390.
Heat, light, etc. . . . . . . . . . . .. 450.
Incidental expenses . . . . . . . .. 260.

$2,000.

(Continued on page 510)
497

You Asked for ltl

\

Question: There is an area in one of our parks
that has been set aside for surfacing with con-
crete, apparently for roller skating during the
summer and ice skating during the winter.
Further, we have some idea of putting a tennis
court in the center section during the summer
months which could be removed during the win-
ter, when the entire area would be flooded for ice
skating. Have you available information on some
such project now in operation, the di§iculties en—
countered and similar information?

I should also like to receive any data you have
on the success of bituminous tennis courts.

—Clarence H. H oper, City Manager, Alliance,

Nebraska.

Answer: The plan of flooding concrete tennis
courts for ice skating is a practicable one and is
now in operation in many cities. Net posts can be
removed without dichulty'and since backstops do
not have to be removed when .the area is used
only for ice skating and tennis, no particular dif-
ficulties are encountered. Single courts are some-
times flooded, but since a larger area is more de-
sirable for ice skating a battery of two or more
courts is preferable for this combination use.

Where facilities for roller skating are provided
they are usually separate from the tennis court,
the reason for this being that the roller skating
season coincides with the spring and fall tennis
season. Whether or not it is practical to have a
separate area for roller skating depends on the
popularity of this sport and the proximity of the
park or playground to the neighborhood to be
served. In a few cities large wading pools are
used for roller skating in the spring and fall. In
the opinion of recreationauthorities when a spe-
cial area is provided for roller skating the circular
track is most satisfactory. In the plan you sug-
gest you are apparently thinking of removing the
tennis backstops when the proposed area is used
for ice skating. This would involve considerable

expense and trouble. If the outsidearea you plan
to use for roller skating were
large enough it might not be
necessary to remove the back-
stops provided the ice skating
were restricted to the outside
area.

498

assistance

Are you finding this Question and
Answer page helpful? We want to
remind you that we must have your

if this

to be as valuable as it should be!

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
 

Another possible plan might be that descri
by the Portland Cement Association which
volves a concrete space 112 feet long and 60 1
wide and may be used for tennis and ice skat'
This is surrounded by a 10 foot strip of g
and outside this is a concrete strip 14 feet
for use as a roller skating rink. If the in
court is not large enough to serve as an ice 3
ing rink for the skaters in your community,
outside rink might also be used although it w
be necessary to provide a curbing, and this w
add considerably to the expense. A copy of l
diagram may be secured from the Portland '
ment Association, 33 West Grand Avenue, I
cago, Illinois, which can supply you with info
tion on comparative costs and on techn'
features involved.

In recent years there has been a great deal
experimentation with various types of bitumin
surfacing for tennis courts and other play ar
While these experiments have not progressed
the point where it is possible to recommen
standard type of surfacing, bituminous surfac
has found increasing favor among recreation ‘ .
ecutives. The less porous of these surfaces .
suitable for flooding to make an area usable I
both tennis and ice skating.

In a pamphlet entitled “Standard Courts '
Tournament Play,” published by the United Sta
Lawn Tennis Association, 120 Broadway, N
York City, a report is presented of a study m —
by that association for its members. The co
mittee making the study recommended that '
clubs having the' financial resources to install .
maintain them the first choice for a court
standard court play would be a patented, qu
drying court. Some of the courts of this nat
are En~Tout-Cas, Har-Tru and Rubico. The s
0nd choice would be good clay. For clubs de
ing to eliminate upkeep, maintenance and groun
men expense the first choice would be an asph
composition court such as the La-Kold cou

built by the American Bitumuls Company and
Cork-Turf type of cou
built by the Cork-Colpro
Company. This same rec
mendation was made for
. leges, universities and h '
SChOOls. (Continued on page 5 i 

     
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
    
 
  
   
 
  

1
I

 
  

i.

department is

 

I Courtesy Cincinnati Public Recreation Commission

OKLAHOMA City’s
first annual “Vene-
tian Nights” was a
l beautiful spectacle.
Iver 740 children from twenty park playgrounds,
ach with a homemade lantern, took part in the
etpentine line of march. The smaller children
larched on the sandy beach accompanied by ac-
.) ordion music; the older boys and girls waded in
ht shallow water: while twenty had boats and

fidats maneuvering in the deep water.

1 Venetian Nights in

, Oklahoma City

0'
'd- Playgrounds Go THE pliygroundspf
“on the Air” the Public Recreation
, Commiss1on of C1n-
l cinnati, Ohio, were
 rned into broadcasting studios two mornings a
veek during the past summer. A mobile unit of
e WSAI Radio Station rolled 11p to a play-
round, the microphone was set up before an ex-
ited group of children, and different boys and
‘irls were interviewed concerning the various ac—
ivities going on at that playground. Some of the
Iembers of the Playground Mothers’ Club or
ome citizen of the community particularly inter—
lsted in that playground were invited “to say a
ew words” about it. The program lasted fifteen
1inutes.
, All members of the Playground Mothers’
3;.eague were told about the broadcast so they
light listen in at home, the primary purpose of

"1e broadcast being to publicize the various play-
z.

' A New Jersey County

ground activities. The broadcasts were well re-
ceived and, needless to say, the children thorough-
ly enjoyed the opportunity of speaking before a
microphone. Each time a radio program was
given, a supervisor from the central recreation of—
hce was present, assisting the play leader and
radio man. There was no money expense involv-
ed as far as the city was concerned for the radio
people, motivated by civic interest, cooperated
wholeheartedly with the Recreation Commission.

SEPTEMBER mark—

ed the close of the sec-
0nd season of public
dances conducted
under the auspices of the Essex County, New
Jersey, Park Commission. Last year the dances
were held in Riverbank Park only. They were so -
successful, however, that this year they were held
in Independence Park as well as Riverbank, the
concrete area being used as the dance floor. WPA
orchestras provided the music; children were per-
mitted to dance until dark. The conduct of the
dancers was excellent and no difficulty was ex—
perienced in getting them to adhere to the follow-
ing simple rules: Men must wear coats, may not
wear hats while dancing; no one may smoke on
the dance area; partners may not separate, swing
each other or otherwise break; men may not dance
together. It is hoped that next year dances will
be held in still other parks where facilities permit.

499

Promotes Dancing

500 . WORLD AT PLAY

    
       
     

SELECT ORANGES OF QUALITY
Fresh From Our Trees

Christmas Gift Box $1. ' "Big Basket" $2.50

Order from

DAVID NICHOLS & CO‘.
Rockmart. Georgia

Preserve the School Sites l—Eight years ago
the Reading, Pennsylvania, School District sold
an abandoned building and site to an individual
for $11,000. The building was torn down but
fourteen large elm. trees remained. The site was
located in a district where there was no open

space for a radius of one mile, and the need for a ‘

playground was urgent. In the meantime the
Board of Recreation had started a campaign to
save abandoned school sites. Civic clubs and
newspaper editorials were continually urging that
old school sites should be used as neighborhood
playgrounds. For the past three summers the
Board of Recreation was granted permission by
the owner to use the abandoned school site with-
out abatement of taxes. The playground leader
immediately organized a Parents’ Playground As-
sociation which in turn helped arouse interest by
trying to get the city to purchase the site. A pleas-
ing climax of this story came when Mr. William
W. Essick, a public-spirited citizen, saw the need
for a playground and bought the abandoned school
site this spring, deeding the property to the city of
Reading. Not only did Mr. Essick purchase the
property but he repaired the stone wall and built
a chain link fence about the ground.

Archery in Syracuse—The Municipal Recre-
ation Commission of Syracuse, New York, has
provided an archery range at lower Onondaga
Park. Smith T. Fowler, Secretary of the COm-
mission writes, “You can readily visualize the
beauty of this play spot. The participation in this
one activity of archery is an indicaton of what
recreaton has meant to the city of Syracuse.”

An Archery Contest by Mail—Archers of
Blackburn, Lancashire, England, and a team from
Columbus Park, Chicago, Illinois, are conducting
an archery contest by mail. The contest grew out
of the correspondence between Harry McEvoy,
Jr., editor of a book on the history and technique
of archery, and Harry Kellett, director of the
Blackburn Community House, who wrote Mr.

'dren using the Union County Park System p1

   
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
  
 
    

McEvoy telling him how much he had enjoy
the book and reporting on the progress of
English team. In addition to archery scores, p
licity, scores and pictures of teams will be a
changed as tournaments open in golf, checke
bowling on the green, and free throw contests
basketball. If the Blackburn Community Ho
wishes it samples of handicraft will also be a
changed.

A New President for the National Playi
Fields Association—From the inauguration
the National Playing Fields Association in I
until his accession to the throne, His Majesty
King had, as Duke of York, acted as its pr
dent. His Majesty, according to a recent issue
Playing Fields, has consented to become a pat
of the association. At the annual general m
ing Lord Derby was made president.

Physical Training in Great Britain— ,
Great Britain Physical Training Act, about wh ;
information has appeared in previous issues '
RECREATION, came into operation on July I 3. ’
substantial effect of the new 1937 act, accord
to School and Society for September 4th, is i
extend the existing powers of providing com ‘
nity centers to carry into adolescent and adult
the social and physical training which plays 8
an important part in modern elementary, seco i
ary and technical schools. Under the act 1 :
authorities are now empowered to provide .
equip holiday camps.

  

l
l
I
i
I
-'|

Where the “Cops” Are Friends—The c

grounds and parks of Union County, New J
sey, do not greet a man in a park policeman’s I
form with the all too-often-heard cry, “Chees
the Cops l” and run pell mell for cover. The p
policemen are their friends, not foes. You c
help feeling friendly toward a “cop” when
comes to the playground to show you how fin
printing is done, teaches you how to play ga
talks on nature study, first aid, civic respo
bility and why crime does not pay and takes g
interest in your activities and sees to it you h
an enjoyable, safe time. For that is the policy
the Union County Park Police—to take a 'I
brother” attitude toward the children in the pa
and on the playgrounds.

Gift Spots Dedicated—The Cleveland‘Foli
dation of Cleveland, Ohio, last summer prese _:
l4

,1 
l.

l

L

   
   
    
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
    

> - city with two well equipped playgrounds. The
 ger of the grounds is on property which has
3 '- leased ; the smaller on city owned land. Five
' usand people were present at the dedication of
'1' - grounds when a program of music, folk danc-
'r’; and speeches was offered.

  

[I

ll etroit Puts on a Circus—All summer long
' troit playground children made preparations
‘ their twelfth annual circus at Belle Isle. More
I, 500 boys and girls took part in this-excit-
spectacle, and among the performers were
i y—eight clowns, about 200 acrobats, forty-eight
ptians with simitars, forty-eight wooden sol-
I rs with rifles, forty-eight Arabians with three
ifeeling camels, and 126 Indians with tomahawks.
* {1 kinds of‘ trained animal acts were on the pro-
ram, together with all the stunts and acts which
upply the thrills for a circus. Mrs. Lottie Mc-
ermott Colligan of the Department of Recrea-
ion was chairman of the executivercommittee in
barge of the circus, of which William Koch was
rganizer. The performers for the circus were
el2ruited from sixty playgrounds. There were
riy 100 entries in the circus wagon contest spon-
ed by the Department of Recreation and judged
: members of the Fisher Craftsmen Guild.

xtra-Curricular Activities —- School Activi-
, the extra-curricular activity magazine edited
‘0. Harry C. McKown and published-at Topeka.
. nsas, announces a program of expansion that
i be of interest to teachers. The magazine,
ich has heretofore confined itself to the ac-
‘: ty interests of high schools, will from now on
' ude the elementary school in its scope.

l.
' ecreation Proves Its Value—The probation
cer of the Juvenile Court at South Bend, Indi-
, tells of eight boys brought before the court
. had caused $30,000 worth of damage and
at committed 470 crimes. They were organized
1to .a Rangers’ Athletic Club, and in the course
f- the next three years only two of them came
a <. to the court. These two were reported by
a. club members themselves. One of them
r ved to be definitely a mental case.

'1 When it was found that the new Sylvan Ball
'lfairk in Oklahoma 'City was suffering from mis-
hkvous destruction at_ the hands of the boys and
irls, arrangements were made with the owner
rhiereby a playground supervisor was assigned to
\ rganize junior leagues in the community in

     
   
  
   
   
  
 
  

 

WORLD AT PLAY

501

How shall 9 entettain my?

aThe Abingdoh 4
Party Boo 3355i;

m. ._..—......

it

   
   

 

guests .

m... a ._ ammwmhm LOOK FOR THE ANSWER IN
?‘  may; THE

: j . ABINGDUN
* PARTY
800K

'.-- ' By Ethel Owen

   
   

.1

     

COMMENTS FROM REV! EWERS:

A gold mine for the party giver.

Clever and original, the parties planned can be
given in homes, schools, granges, clubs, churches,
wherever people gather together for a good time.
An invaluable book for every home. There will be
no more dull evenings for the family who owns it.
The book should be on the desk of every recrea-
tional leader.

Illustrated in color and in Black and White

Net. $I.OO

At the Better Bookshops

Tim ABINGnoN PRESS

NEW YORK - CINCINNATI - CHICAGO
150 Fifth Avenue 420 Plum Street 740 Bush Street

which the park was located and to use the ball
park each morning throughout the remainder of
the season”. The experiment was a decided success.

Folk Dancing in Washington Square ——The
Folk Festival Council; in cooperation with the
Department of Parks, New York City, presented
its fourth annual folk dance festival on Labor
Day” For two hours gaily costumed dancers rep-
resenting seven nations danced near the fountain
in Washington Square to the delight of an audi-
ence of 2,000 onlookers, who agreed, according
to the New Y ork Times of September 7th, that
the basis for international peace should be dancing.

Recreation and Engineering—The late Har-
rison P. Eddy, before his death on June 15, 1937,
had prepared a paper on “The Next Fifty Years”
which was read at a luncheon meeting on June
16th and later published in the August issue of
Civil Engineering. Harrison P. Eddy had been
President of the American Society of Civil En-

502 WORLD AT PLAY_

 

HOWTO ORGANIZE *
(IND PROMOTE a I

     
     

v

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-

shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and

rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.
i
gineers. He was optimistic as to the future open
to engineers. He particularly mentioned recrea-
tion as one attractive possibility. He stated that
one of the greatest problems created by recent
changes is what we shall do with our released time
and energy. He thought that the most obvious and
popular solution of the problem'seemed to be the
development of recreation and that in the next
fifty years games, sports, hunting, fishing, travel
and a long list of recreational pursuits will be
brought within easy reach of more and more of
the people. He believed that the engineer would
have a very prominent part in providing such op-
portunities; that new machines and inventions
would be used exclusively for recreation; that
great sums would be spent under the technical
direction of the engineer. Mr. Eddy recognized
that the great increase in ,leisure has raised a

problem as to how training and discipline can be
provided.

 

A Park for Alliance, Ohio-Among the rec-
reational facilities at Alliance, Ohio, is an eleven
acre park given the city by Miss Mabel Hartzel,
a teacher in the city for thirty years. The park,
which adjoins Miss Hartzel’s home, was opened

 
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
      
      

this year after development with WPA labor. 5
contains four tennis courts, four softball d' '
monds, a playground, and picnic sites and ove l
There is a slope on one side which is used a
coasting hill. The park is called Early Hill, an n -
name for the area, and it is much used.

For the Establishment of Vacation Sch
Camps—Governor Lehman of New York St -
has signed two bills passed by the 1937 legislat
authorizing the establishment of summer vacat' L
school camps for children. One authorizes ci
of the state acting through their legislative b0u. I
to establish camps in spaces provided therefor i
parks adjacent to the cities. “Such camps shall ‘_
used to furnish instruction, recreation and ma 
tenance of children of school age and shall
under the jurisdiction of the Board of Educat
of such city.” The second bill authorizes the t
of New York acting through the Board of E
mate and Apportionment to establish camps
spaces provided in parks adjacent to the city un l
the jurisdiction and control of the State Cou 
of Parks. The camps may be under the juris -.
tion of such board or department as may I
designated by the Board of Estimate. ‘-

1

|
Summer Camping in Interstate Park—Su !
mer camping in- the New York divisions of t
Palisades Interstate Park of New York and N
Jersey broke all records during the 1937 sea 3
in the number of persons enjoying it since ca n 3
ing was begun in these divisions twenty—live ye I
ago. Figures compiled by Miss Ruby M. Jolli .-
SUperintendent of the Camp Department, sh “
that there were 80,044 persons in the group cam .
including week-enders, in the ten weeks of
camping season. This was an increase of ab
20 per cent over 1936. Individual campers w
cupying fixed tents in the area provided for th
numbered about 7,000. Overnight parties in s
tents, coming to the park for a Saturday night
holiday week—end only, averaged about 150 I

week.

A Community Hobby Show—-—The San Fr
cisco, California, Recreation Commission has .
nounced its first community hobby show to be he
.November 12th to 17th at the Museum of A
There will be no limit to the classes of exhibi
and no charge for entry of hobby or admission- -
the show will be made. The show is to be nb
competitive and without awards and of a pune
amateur nature. 

5“

l,

l

91

WORLD AT PLAY 503

 City Council to the Rescue l—Last sum-
% the Public Recreation Commission of Cin-
igati, Ohio, conducted seventy—six playgrounds.
City Council, states Tam Deering, Director
ecreation, deserves all credit for the continu-

..
4.1- of the playgrounds during the past seven
‘l

q

' ' s. Confronted with the longest school vaca-
, period in decades, totaling fifteen weeks, and
 the Recreation Commission unable to finance
i» e than eight weeks, the Council voted a sup-
 entary appropriation of $16,000 to maintain
.: laygrounds throughout the entire summer.
1.
l he George Washington Monument Park—
, eautiful plaza at the George Washington Monu-
nt Park, the site of which is a part of the Brook-
‘ approach to theWilliamsburg Bridge, is the re-
lt of the work of WPA, New York City. The
ea surrounding the monument has been enclosed
an ornamental cast stone fence 657 feet long,
ide of which has been installed a landscaped
nken garden with an ornamental spray foun-
n, drinking fountains, two rest pavilions, and
st stone fences. Inside the railing and between it
d the Sunken garden is a shrubbery area eight
6 wide filled with ivy and privet. The park is
s across the street from the La Guardia Play-
" nd built by CWA, also a part of the bridge
5: a. This playground is already seriously over—
0 ded, with an average daily attendance of
{'a . The newly—renovated park will help re—
the congestion, particularly where mothers
'.« infants are concerned.

,
I Wading Pools for Indianapolis—The Ameri-
. nlCz'ty for May 1937 reports that the City Plan-
n5 Commission of Indianapolis is completing a
_ A project which will give the city its twelfth
ding pool. The first of the pools was built
0'1 gravel salvaged from flood prevention proj-
ts and from old pipe-and fittings left over from
Lrious other city undertakings. The total cost of
 pool was $210 which represented only 'the
'st of the cement. The pool grew so popular
" at a project was submitted to WPA for twelve.
lditional pools. These pools have been so de—
firmed and constructed that they may be used as

a skating grounds during the winter.

‘3 An Annual Tree Planting Hike—The March
‘th issue of The Pedometer, published by the
merican Walkers’ Association, Cincinnati, Ohio,
“ [15 of the annual tree planting hike held on April

i.
D

 

Just Published! 

REDISCOVERING
THE ADOLESCENT

By Hedley s. Dimock o This new book by the
oo—author of Camping and Character Will pro-
vide clues for which thoughtful parents, tea'ch-
ers, and all workers with adolescents will be
grateful. He presents here a measurement of
the growth and social adjustment of 200 boys
over a period of two years. Some of his find—
ings are startlingly in confiict with “what every—
one knows." Cloth, $2.75

CREATIVE
GROUP EDUCATION

By S. R. Slavson O This important new book
assumes that sound educational practice is based
upon fundamental interests of personality. The
author follows persistently the idea that good
group work is an extension of good family life.
He describes practical methods for engaging
young people in creative activity and in social
participation. Professor William H. Kilpatrick,
Teachers College, Columbia University, com—
ments: “A real book written by a man of actual
experience and excellent insight. Not only is
the discussion good, but the book is easy to

read. . . . I am glad to commend it cordially.”
Cloth, $2.50

Through your bookseller or from

ASSOCIATION PRESS
347 Madison Avenue New York

4th, when by agreement with the Park Board, the
American Walkers’ Association planted two trees
in Mount Airy Forest. Last year more than
1,000 hikers turned out for this event and formed
a parade, the school band furnishing music and
at the head a police escort. The Park Board fur—
nished speakers, and the Mayor used a silver spade
to plant two birch trees. This was followed by a
picnic supper.

A Recreation Training Course—From Janu-
ary 3 to 31, 1938, the School of Education of
New York University will conduct a short course
for recreation superintendents to consider some
of the problems fundamental to the recreation
movement of America. Further information may
be secured from Dr. Jay B. Nash, New York
University, Washington Square, New York City.

Has Dancing Lost Its PopularityP—At a
convention of dancing teachers held in New York
City, it was reported that more than 6,000,000
adults and children (about half were children)
are enrolled in dancing schools. Tap dancing far
exceeds all the rest. The public is spending more
than $100,000,000 yearly in dancing lessons.

504 THE LIGHTED SCHOOLHOUSE

Announcing...

The Twenty-Third 1

Recreation
Congress

0 Begin now to plan for the Twenty-
Third National Recreation Con- .
gress which will be .held in Pitts-
burgh. October 3-7. I938. The
headquarters of the Congress will

be the William Penn Hotel.

Further information regarding the
Congress will be given through
future issues of Recreation. Watch
for announcements!

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C I A T I O N

The Children’s Autumn Festival —- From
October 30th to November 7th, WPA Federal
Project No. I, New York City, conducted what
was known as the Children’s Autumn Festival of
Art, Music and Theater. Nine morning and after-
noon performances were staged at a local theater.
The programs included marionette shows, con-
certs, plays, dance programs, Negro music, a Tom
Thumb Revue and comedy acts. There was com-
munity singing at all programs, and a permanent
art exhibit was hung in the theater throughout
the period of the festival.

A Womans Press Book

THE BOOK OF FESTIVALS

Dorothy Gladys Spicer
Foreword by Dr. John H. Finley

A source book for community workers on
the_ festivals and folkways of thirty-five
natlonalitles including America.

Comprehensive and authentic data for use
in the celebration of nationality holidays
and holy days and the interpretation of
cultural backgrounds.

THE WOMANS PRESS

600 Lexington Avenue
New York. N. Y.

 

 

The Children's Recreation Scho

(Continued from page 467)

School for a profit, there is usually a good-
surplus that is turned into the general Su
Session fund.

In addition to many boys and girls from B
ley and other bay cities who attend the Child
Recreation School, parents wno are visiting
various parts of California and from other 5
realize the value of this recreational program
enroll their children, if there are vacancies.

i
i

Pin-Hole Camera Clubs

(Continued from page .468}

actual cost per participant for films, chemicals
paper is around twelve cents. This allows
negative and two or three prints per person.

    

The Eastman Kodak Company has publi
several bulletins for free distribution on Ele
tary Photography, Pin—Hole Cameras, and Ca
Club Organization, which are of great he]
organizing this activity.

,;

The Lighted Schoolhouse

(Continued from page 470)

Many of the problems youth is facing toda
be solved in a small way by giving them 0
tunities to meet, play and study in an ideal
vironment. The schoolhouse can be made su
place. In many cities in the United States sc
boards and civic recreation departments op
community centers as part of their program.
enables the leisure time of many public and
school graduates, as well as adults, to be pur
ful rather than aimless. The feeling that o
slipping into insecurity will sap self-confid
self—respect and ambition. The time that o
elapses after graduation until the securing of
ployment might be salvaged by keeping y
people mentally alive and occupied. The us
school buildings as community centers will
in making this time count for the develop 
of youth. "

l

t
i

The news of Rosemount Center has sprea’
and wide. Halifax, Hamilton, Ottawa, Ref 1
- {I

The Innuence of Rosemount Center Spre

THE BARN DANCE RETURNS! ' 505

  

' , Vancouver have written for information re-
: ing the setting up of similar centers. Ottawa

.followed Montreal's lead and now operates a
. successful center in the Wellington Street - S 
: 01. 19,571 people attended the Rosemount
:ter last year, and with backing like this mem—

feel that there is no limit to what can be  

' he success of Montreal’s experiment is in no

‘ 1 measure due to its director, Miss Sybil Ross. Jul? 0]?- the P1” 655

~-'---

er philosophy probably lies the secret of its

ess: “Give people an opportunity to visit and A ' .

- I together, to help plan and direct their spare- 28 Page pamphlet on safety m
' e hobbies together, and you create a better rolation to playground administra-
mmunity in which to live.” tion and activity programs. Contains
i —— ‘ sections on physical conditions; the
l The Barn Dance Returns! use of apparatus; representative

(Continued 3‘7071‘1’096’476) safety programs; ,organization of
 are. .t‘i‘i’fd tier. . Terr. . r9. .2... patrols and safety clubs, games»
he Countryman Press, Inc., Weston, Vermont. handcraft activities and campaigns,

' he title page reads, “The Old-Fashioned Square
alnce, Its History, Lore, Variations and Its

Allers. Complete and Joyful Instructions." In ' Price  cents
unition dozens of dances with calls are included.

‘. .3; II. Church Recreation Service, Delaware,

0 o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2.50 .
El ctions O, P, T and V (each 26-52 pages long) E
a tain folk games (0), square dances (T), sing- _.

r _ “play-party” games, set running and musical

i cle mixers (P), and folk songs (V). These
its may be obtained for 25 cents each. 

quare Dances of America, T. M. Danlavy and

I.

 L. Boyd. H. T. Fitzsimons Company,

' '   o o u . .o‘. o o . . a . a . . . u . . - . u . o o u o . . a . ..$ .75 Id t c   d
 ut 50 quadrilles with humorous old-time calls ProV1 es ma erla or a We \ 'roun "
£1 directions for each. Suitable music is sug- ed safety program based on sea_
; ted for the quadrilles as a group—an excel-

g t collection and a very usable one. sonal hazards. The colored posters,
.2 'es—Musical Mixers and Simple Square graded lesson Outlines, Plays, Star.
a ces. National Recreation Association . . . . . . ..$ .50 , , , , ,

7 ere are eight square dances in this collection les, informational articles, acoldent

calls, music and steps. The musical mixers

my be used at a barn party, too. facts, patrol news Items and other

1 Play-Party in Indiana by Leah J. Walford. . . .$I.00 features are prepared by 5011001
. Rigidugylgaiaggag’cigi‘; 140 N- 5”“ people who are experts in the iield
) excellent collection ,of authentic folk songs of safety teaching.

13- I games (many really simple dances). usable
1m adults or children in social recreation and

H, ,3 programs_ subscription - $1.00 a Year
19 f of a Revised Edition of “Good Morning”
' Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ .15 O

   
  

Dearborn Publishinlg Comppnyi, 'Dearbcprp, -
25.553231???Y:.§§l§°§§3.‘étsf’ $35?‘Zih2.2 ED U CATI 0 N DIVISION
' hes and round dances. Steps and calls are

 ‘ NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL

"3 to MJ’Lau. Girl Scouts, Inc. .............. ..$ .10

W. 49th Street, New York City.
This book contains seventeen singing games one Park Avenue

(4f the play-party type) seven of which are

A rican and ten from other countries. Music, New York. N. Y.
w rds and directions are given—an excellent

olllection.

506 , HIKING IN CHICAGO

 

I Jag.

A'l‘ THE HELM-in

a}

_ 5,
‘32.

       
  
 

q.

The Square Dance—A Social Recreation Aid.

G. H. Harrison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ .25
In the September, 1937 issue of RECREATION. .

Seven square dances with calls, directions, dia-
grams and suggestions for music. These are

very good.

 

 

Hiking in Chicago

(Continued from page 478)
hiker, Edward Payson Weston, but we can make
pleasure trips as far as our strength permits and
thus improve our chance of longevity.

Walk in the city or on the land. Perhaps you
prefer the parks or the deep woods of some pre-
serve. It matters not where you go ; trod on, chin
up, in the sunshine or rain.

Thoreau walked alone. His observations of
nature are unsurpassed. His trips are quoted from
“Walden,” in which he says: “Sometimes I ram-
bled to pine groves, standing like temples, or like
fleets at sea, full-rigged, with wavy boughs and
rippling with light, so soft and green and shady
that the druids would have forsaken their oaks to
worship them. Instead of calling on some scholar,
I paid many a visit to particular trees, of kinds
which are rare in this neighborhood, standing far
away in the middle' of some pasture, or in the
depths of a wood or swamp, or on a hilltop, such
as the beech which has so neat a bole and beau-
tifully lichen-painted, perfect in all its details.”

Thirteen years ago, J. Otis Swift, nature writer
on the old New York World, casually invited his
readers to join him on a hike to near-by Yonkers.
From this short ramble has developed the Yosian
Brotherhood (named after the leader who was

christened Josiah). Today, the Yosians have ‘
sub-groups which have given recreation and
joyment of trips to 110,000 hikers. These gr
have no dues. Initiation consists simply in s
ing up some Sunday morning at one of the
ing points announced in the newspapers.

The type of club that has a.regular schc
regular membership and paid leadership und
recreation department is more stable, and
always someone’s business to continue in fa'
foul weather.

Socializing a Social Game
( Continued from page 481)
that are favorable for them to continue in u

activities. Today, as schools are becoming
life-like and young men and women are goin
equipped to play reasonably well in a variet
social games, they Will demand greater oppor
ties to continue in these activities. With
chances for whole families to enjoy leisure, i
comes increasingly important for communiti
remedy the lack of adequate social program
community life. The ideal today is to ma
greater number of social games more acces
to a majority of people, in order to help the
tain the maximum in health, happiness,
vitality.

The Outlook for Social Games

The achievements of science have increase
chances that man will be able to enjoy 1i
greater number of years. Safety devices and
ous uses of knowledge have been develope ‘
guard his life; man wears protective ar
against many dread diseases; techniques I
known to save his life; to a certain extent lif 
day can be bought. But although scienc
modern man’s greatest friend, yet it can re
prove to be the extinguisher of man unless
learns the science of human relations. One of
best ways to? learn to love your neighbor as y
self is to learn to play with your neighbor. W
is needed today is the opportunity to get m
socializing qualities into social games and to 1
more socializing qualities out of them. A nati
greatest heritage and proudest ability should
that its people know how to play together ,
together. Man has spent much of his geniu
turning himself out of employment; some of
genius could well be utilized for his social '
velopment, to the ultimate betterment of I
human race. ‘

   
     
  

MAGAZINES AND PAi’l/IPHLETS 507

elix M. VVarburg, who died in New York on
, tober 20, 1937, was the first chairman of the

3 Felix M. Warburg
4.

£— ance Committee of the National Recreation

l‘ sociation, then known as the Playground As—
.i: iation of America. He contributed generously
ichthe work of the Association. He was a friend
n Joseph Lee, for so many years president of the
Bsociation, was associated with Joseph Lee on
'i Irtain Harvard University educational undertak-
' 5. Mr. Warburg was one of the pioneers of
play movement in New York City, helping
lllian D. Wald of Henry Street Settlement in
roviding open—air playgrounds for children in

'rowded tenement districts.

.The Future oi Municipal Recreation
(Continued from page 483)
rests—music, art, dramatics, handcraft, ath-
_tics, team games, group games, clubs. Clubs of
oung people train for good citizenship, respect
or authority, loyalty, obedience to the law. Com-
etitions of all kinds, whether they be Barber
hop Quartet, Hill Billy, dancing or athletic con-

ts arouse interest and enthusiasm and satisfy
desire of the child and adult to compete with
is friend in wholesome, recreational activities. I
10 see an awakening on the part of school prin-
als to use adjoining streets, parks, swimming
015, for their physical training and health edu—
Iion work, rather than to make use of poorly
tilated gymnasiums and school yards.

A Golden Age for Recreation

There will come within the next ten years, as I
63 it, a recreational awakening, a golden age for
creation when every neighborhood will demand
iicilities, when every city will try to develop its
‘ ter front for recreational purposes, when every
.. ($1001 building will be open until 10 P. M., when
)‘hilanthropic foundations will provide funds for
:dncerts, music and art, when appointments in the
.' reational department—yes, from the 10we.st
ition to the highest—will depend upon merit,
ipon the fitness of the applicant for recreation,
13d will not be influenced by politicians or self-
3 eking individuals. The twin problems of play
trld leisure gradually will be met and solved. The
Spening of additional community activities will
result in fewer street accidents, less juvenile de—
inquency, happier children and adults, the better

 

  
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES

Parents’ Magazine. October 1937 ‘
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Childhood Education, September 1937

The Elementary School of Tomorrow, by N. L.
Engelhardt

Old Rags! Old Paper! Old Cans for School,
by Miriam Kallen

Child Life, October 1937
A Hallowe’en Party, by Helen Hamilton

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

October 1937
Festivals in the School Program, by Margaret H.
McGinty

The Nation’s Schools, August 1937
Youth Hostels: America, by Justin Cline
Let’s Make Activities Active, by Irene Murray
Lansing

The Catholic School Journal, October 1937
Marionettes in the Schools, by Sister Bernard Coleman

Leisure, October 1937 "
Strip Confetti—A Colorful Craft, by Robert E. Dodds
A Party in the Old General Store,
by Clifford Parcher
Home-Made Magic, by Wilton S. Clements
Group Program Building, by Walter L. Stone
Let’s Have a Hallowe’en Celebration,
by Elaine MacIntyre

Broomstick Fun and Games for the Party,
by Alice Crowell Hoffman

National Parent-Teacher, October 1937
Hallowe’en—The Father’s ' Problem,
by Dr. J. W. F. Davies

American Childhood, November 1937
Spun Paper Pottery, by Erna Sonne
We Made a Toyery, by J. M. Harris

Creating from Discarded Materials,
by Harry W. Blodgett

The Camping Magazine, October 1937

Creative Art in Every Camp Activity,
by Harold Haydon
Let’s Get Back to Campcraft, by Eugenia Parker

Child Study, October 1937
The Family Camp, by Ernest G. Osborne

PAM PHLETS

The English Folk Dance Society—F all Program

Modern Trends in Physical Education,
by Marguerite A. Vienne
Book Store, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, La. $.50.

Fifty-fourth Annual Report of the Board of Park Com-
missioners—Minneapolis, Minnesota 1936

Report of the Oakland Recreation Department 1936-37

The Silver Aisle—The Appalachian Trail in Maine
Published by the Maine Appalachian Trail Club,
Augusta, Maine

Bibliography of Reports by State and Regional Planning
Organizations 0 .
National Resources Committee, Washington, D. C.

Sécond Annual Report, Chicago Park District, 1936

508 SUMMER HONOR READING

It’s New . . .
' It’s Different -

JUNIOR ARTS
ACTIVITIES

THE MAGAZINE
FOR THE

ELEMENTARY
TEACHER OF
TODAY

 

The only monthly magazine devoted to creative ac-
tivity material and ideas for classroom work. Each
issue offers creative project material that may be
correlated with regular studies. Size 9x12 inches.
See this magazine! Introductory offer, one-year sub-
scription, 10 issues, $2.00, regular price $2.50. Three
years for $4.00, a saving of $3.50! Send in your

subscription today!

IUNIOR ARTS and ACTIVITIES

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO. ILL.

'Swimming Pool Data and
Reference Annual

(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor

404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable to _Earl K. Collins

 

use of leisure time and, therefore, better citiz
ship. Leisure time will be filled with acti
which will bring to the individual joy, happin
health and knowledge. Our citizens will joi
club, get a new hobby, learn to play, meet t
neighbors and make new friends.

Leisure will show a profit.

Summer Honor Reading
(Continued from page 486)
Long A90 and Now

Aulaire, d’. Conquest of the Atlantic.
Blaisdell. Log cabin days.

Borton. Our little Aztec cousin of long.ago.
Buck. Stories of early Minnesota.

Faris. Real stories from our history.

Life of the pioneers, the deveIOpment of the West
the growth of our country.

Haaren and Poland. Famous men of Rome.
Heal. How the world began.

Heard and King. Stories of American pioneer
Hill. On the trail of Grant and Lee.
Hodgdon. Enchanted past.

Olcott. Wonder tales from China seas.
Tappan. Story of the Greek people.

Tietjens. Boy of the desert.

Stories

I

Austin. The basket woman.
Indian stories of the California desert.

Carr. Children of the covered wagon.
A story of the old Oregon trail.

Carroll. Alice’s adventures in wonderland.
Coatsyvorth. Knock at the door.
Darby. Skip-come-a-Lou.
Doone. Nuvat, the brave.
An Eskimo Robinson Crusoe.
Duncan. Adventures of Billy Topsail.
Field. Hitty, her first hundred years.
Newbery prize book 1930.

Grahame. Wind in the willows.

A charming fairy tale of a rat, mole, toad, and bad
and their adventures on the road.

Kastner. Emil and the detectives.
Kipling. Jungle book.
Lagerliif. The wonderful adventures of Nils. .

A mischievous boy who is turned into an elf ri '3
away on the back of a goose and has real adventur 3‘

    

Lofting. Story of Dr. Doolittle.
Macdonald. At the back of the North wind.
Meigs. Wind in the chimney.

Patri. Pinocchio in America. .. .

Pyle. Wonder clock.

A wonder tale for each hour of the day.

     
  
   
   
    
   
   
 
  
   

’hultz. Sinopah, the Indian boy.

‘tvif't. Gulliver’s travels.

r' Mr. Gulliver tells of his shipwreck at sea, his strange
, ., adventures among the dwarfs and his encounter with
t' 'l the giants.

i ’ illsie and Swartman. Ship’s monkey.

,' A humorous story of Chalu, the monkey from Su-

]. matra, who proved to be a real mascot.
‘o

« oung. The wonder smith and his son.
I I The Procedure

When a child has linished reading his chosen
00k he makes a short written report to his near-
} st branch library. After he has completed four
t the required six books his name goes on the
onor roll with a star for each book read and re-
’ orted upon. When he has finished the six books
e is given a. large gold star.
When school opens in September each child
vho has read six books is given a certificate.
I hree of these certificates entitle the holder to
me large certificate. The awarding of the certifi-
ates is usually made an important event.

 
 
   
  
 
  

Results Secured

‘ Through the plan followed in Minneapolis the
hild learns how to use his public library and cul-
ivates a taste for the right kind of reading. Last
ummer Minneapolis children read over I 1,000
ooks from the selected lists.
The plan involves considerable additional work
or librarians and _teachers, but the results secured

.ustify the effort.

Some Sports and Their Development
| ( C ontinncd from page 489)
yle of play to add to the game, which thongh
' d, is still in its infancy, and which, though the
l: art of royalty in the past, has now become the
.eat hobby of all sports-loving people.

   
  
 

A New Community Center tor

l

I Negro Citizens

( Continued from page 494)
the beginning of the fall activities program. To-

day every available period between the ho_urs of
10 A. M. and 10 P. M. is used for hobbies, hand-
lcraft, music, physical, social, dramatic and educa-
tional activities. Committee and club meetings,
civic gatherings and citizenship classes, as well as

programs of a musical and dramatic nature, are
held at the center.

Special events include monthly community
,' ights, a choir festival, a public school sing,

  
  
  
  

SUMMER HONOR READING

 

509

Christmas Seals

are here again!

They protect your home
from Tuberculosis

A

THE penny Christmas seal this

year depicts a iolly and color-
tul town crier. Garbed in his warm
caped cloak of brown and his three
cornered hat. he brings to mind
one of the most popular and an-
cient characters of many lands—
the man who went from house to
house in the small towns and vil-
lages to warn of dangers. spread
the news and protect the house-
holders. It is pleasant to recall the
good old customs of our tore-
tathers. ln buying and using our
Christmas seals on holiday letters
and packages we may know that
this friendly town crier was chosen
for its subiect to symbolize pro-
tection of our homes from tuber-
culosis. The house in the back-
ground on the seal stands for all
homes. and the sturdy old town
crier is ringing in health for I938.

By purchasing Christmas seals

you are helping to stamp out
tuberculosis.

 

 

checker tournaments, community music recitals
and lectures by outstanding speakers. Badmin- -
ton, checkers, ping pong, handball, dominoes, and
jig-saw puzzles are to be found on the program.
Recreation clubs for professional workers, girls’
clubs, men’s clubs, a mothers’ chorus, a com-
munity glee club, sewing, woodwork and dower
making classes, indoor baseball, volley ball and
games are all proving popular. Of special inter—
est is the kindergarten held daily at the center
between the hours of nine and twelve. All chil-
dren under school age are invited to attend and
participate in singing, games, dramatic and hand-

craft activities.‘

510 A SMALL COMMUNITY ACHIEVES ITS GOAL!

Special danouncement

‘0...-

Character Magazine

and

National Parent Teacher
Magazine

can now be had at the
club rate of

$00

Per Year

With CHARACTER MAGAZINE filling a very
great need among teachers and parents
through its stimulating articles on character
development in the home, school and com-
munity—

With NATIONAL PARENT TEACHER MAGA-
ZINE the house organ of the great Parent
Teacher Association—the greatest folk move-
ment of our time—-

You have a combination of valuable re-
source material at such a low rate you simply
cannot afford to ignore it.

Take advantage of this opportunity NOW
by filling in the order blank below and mail-
ing to us With your remittance.

CHARACTER MAGAZINE.
5732 Harper Ave.. Chicago. Ill.

Kindly enter my subseription to CHAaAc'rn
MAoAzINn and NATIONAL PARENT TEACHER MAGA-
ZINE each for one year at the club rate of $2.00.

Remittance enclosed.

Name ................................................................................ ..

Position  ..................................................... 

o. g.
'0

A ddreas ............................................................................ ..

City ................................................ .. State ...................... ..

 

if.

Twenty volunteer workers—church work
teachers and school and college students——
carrying on the program of activities under
guidance of the regular staff workers, includ
the director, two assistants in women’s progr
and in musical activities, and three NYA work

Organizations at the Center

Many organizations have sprung into existe
at the new center, including the Community
ter Council, the Inter-Club Council, a leader
corps, community music, drama and athletic ass
ations, and the Negro Recreation Service. Thro
this service literature and leaders are provided, .
social, civic, church and educational instituti
needing assistance in their problems are gi
help. Among the organizations with which .
service works are schools, churches, Sun -
Schools, colleges, Boy Scouts and Girl Sco
Y.M.C.A., hospitals and nurses’ homes. All
these institutions are working with the center

improve the quality of recreation for the Ne "
citizens of Greensboro.

  
  
   
  
   
    

With the recent appointment of a full-time
rector of recreation for Negroes, the Greens
Recreation Commission has taken steps to m
adequately the need for a city-wide recreat
program for the colored people of the commun' I

A Small Community Achieves Its 60 3
(Continued from page 497) i

The center is open from 7:00 to II :00 P.
six days a week. The prOgram includes athleti
dramatics, music discussion and study grou
crafts, photography, dancing and parties to
elude all ages. If the center proves a success t
voters will (11 all probability maintain it with
larger budget. A trained director has been a

pointed and everything points to the success
the program.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 498)

A'pamphlet issued by the National Recreat'
Association entitled “Surfacing Playgrou
Areas” discusses the various surfaces which a i
in use and their comparative merits. For a nu
ber of the different kinds of surfaces used as
tennis courts detailed specifications are give.
Copies of the pamphlet are available for 50 cerg
.I ‘

ii
u

 

   

1' ndicrafts of the Southern Highlands

‘ Allen H. Eaton. Russell Sage Foundation, New York.~
' 3.00.

0R MANY YEARS Mr. Eaton has been assembling ma-
terial on handicrafts in the Southern Highland Dis-
t and the information brought together in this fas-
ting volume ranges from his early impressions of this
untain handicraft to later personal knowledge of in-
iduals, families and environment and intensive field
_. k which has included examination of local materials,
cesses, products and markets. Data has been gathered
0m handicraft centers and similar sources of informa-
on. The main body of the volume deals almost en-
rely with the handicrafts of the area. Part 3 under the
tie “The Rural Handicraft Movement and the Wider
se of Handicrafts” treats of the handicraft movement
. rural America and their potentialities in the fields of
ult education and of recreation. The book is beauti-
lly illustrated. There are 112 full page illustrations,
0; of them in color and the remainder in photogra-
re, including 58 photographs of mountain life and
orkers in the handicrafts made especially for the book

. Doris Ulmann. The volume includes a carefully
Il'ected bibliography.

A!!!

c“.— '- W5

How to Make Electric Toys

1 Raymond F. Yates. D. Appleton-Century Company,
ew York. $2.00.

I EALlNG WITH a new phase of toy making, the author
. opens up to the young explorer an exciting world of
enture in electricity. Mr. Yates concentrates on the
E, pler aspects of the science so that even those with lit-
a knowledge of electricity will have no trouble per-
.. ming the experiments and making the toys and gad-
1. 5 described. The book is an introduction to the won-
r s of electricity and is as entertaining as it is instructive.

'i
‘ Research Memorandum on
it

Recreation in the Depression

3v Jesse F. Steiner. Social Science Research Council,
f€30 Park Avenue, New York. $1.00.

HIS BULLETIN is one of a series of thirteen studies in

the social aspects of the depression sponsored by the
Social Science Research Council to stimulate the study
if depression effects on various social institutions. Dr.
Swiner, who is the author of Americans at Play, has
reited his subject under the following headings: Recre-
.t nal Research: Problems, Trends, Sources; the Recent
" pansion of Leisure; the Changing Tides" of Recrea-
i ; Recreational Facilities Under Governmental Aus-
V 5; Community Organization for Leisure; Recreation
\ a Business Enterprise, and Recreation Faces the
’u‘ure. Dr. Steiner emphasizes the importance of recre-
tiQn in present-day society and urges a wide variety of
t' ies which will contribute more or less directly to a
LtTer knowledge of the whole recreation situation. He

-I‘.

I

New Publications-in the Leisure Time Field

warns, however, that the problem cannot be solved by a
simple presentation of arrays of facts and further sug-
gests that solutions of problems can never be final Z‘since
they arise out of the never-ending process of adjustment
to changing conditions.” Recreation workers will be very
much interested in checking Dr. Steiner’s observations 0n

developments in the recreation field during the past few
years with their own experiences.

Information regarding the remaining twelve volumes
of the series may be secured from the Social Science Re-

search Council. The price of each bulletin is $1.00. The
entire set‘may be secured for. $10.00.

Sing

Compiled and edited by David Stevens and Peter W.
Dykema. C. C. Birchard and Company, Boston. $.25.
MORE THAN 150 favorite standard and popular num-
bers, complete with music and all necessary ac-
companiments, have been brought together in this song
book for school, home and community singing. Special
features include a Gilbert and Sullivan section, a large
list of the less familiar Stephen Foster melodies, and a
number of modern part songs never before available in an

inexpensive collection.

IOOI Christmas Facts and Fancies

By Alfred Carl Hottes. A. T. De La Mare Company,
Inc., New York. $2.50.

HERE IS A delightful book prepared with the object of

including all interesting Christmas material not al-
ready published in available form. There is "The Story
of Christmas” with legends galore and “Old Wives’
Tales.” There are suggestions for decorating the home
and the Christmas tree, for Christmas music and for
making cards. There is information on “foods around
the world,” and finally there is a chapter telling how
countries around the world celebrate Christmas. The
book is delightfully illustrated with more than 100 draw-
ings by Lindsay L. Field.

The Nature Guide

Edited by Agnes Kelly Saunders. Commissioners of the
$Falsisades Park, 141 Worth Street, New York City.
1. 0.

THIS NEW NATURE GUIDE for campers in the Harriman
section of the Palisades Interstate Park of New York
and New Jersey is announced as a primer of fundamental
natural history facts and principles. All of the contri-
butors to the guide have been directors or assistant di-
rectors in the regional museums conducted 'for a number
of years. Their contributions cover astronomy, insects,
birds, plant life, rocks and minerals, mammals and fish,
and similar subjects. The final chapter of the book is
devoted to a statement of the requirements for museum
emblems of the Interstate Park established by Miss Ruby
Jolliffe, Superintendent of the Camp Department.

511

512 NEW PUBLICATIONS [N THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Childhood: The Beginning Years and Beyond.

Edited by the Association for Childhood Education.
Houghton Mitiiin Company, Boston.

A notable contribution to the literature on childhood
has been made in this series of five books sponsored by
the Association for Childhood Education and prepared
by outstanding authorities. Volume l—Health: Physi-
cal, Mental, and Emotional, was written by Richard M.
Smith and Douglas A. Thom. Volume 2—Play: The
Child’s Response to Life, is the contribution of Rose Al-
schuler and Christine Heinig. Beautifully illustrated, this
volume will make a strong appeal to every recreation
worker as well as to parents and teachers. The topics
discussed include toys, indoor and outdoor play, birthday
parties, diversions for the sick child, and pets. ACthltleS
are grouped according to the child’s age and stage _of
development. There are useful working drawings of in-
door and outdoor equipment, and simple pleasures Wthh
the entire family can enjoy together are attractively de—
scribed. The third volume—Nature: The Child Goes
Forth, by Bertha Stevens brings to the subjectiof' nature
lore an unusually interesting approach. Some especially
beautiful photographs make this book outstanding. Vol-
ume 4—Stories and Verse, compiled by Mary Lincoln
Morse in collaboration with a number of experts in the
field of children’s reading, contains tales that are new,
tales that are old, and verse [both old and new. It com-
prises a fascinating selection of children’s literature with
some helpful hints to the story-teller. Volume 5—Songs
from Many Lands, compiled by Thomas W. Surette With
musical arrangements by Kathleen Uhler, contains
seventy-five songs for everyday singing in the home.

The entire set of live volumes is available for $19.50,
with discounts offered schools, libraries, parent-teacher
associations and similar groups. All volumes except the
first may 'be bought separately in quantities of live‘c0pies
0r multiples thereof.

Appraising the Elementary-School
Program—Sixteenth Yearbook.

National Education Association, Washington, D. C.
$2.00.

Earlier yearbooks have described specific school activi-
ties, administrative and supervisory policies, curriculum
practices, and methods of teaching. This book deals with
the appraisal of these elements in the school and is
primarily a collection of principles, techniques and de-
vices which have been used or proposed forwevaluating
the program in individual schools or school systems.
“How is your school attaining the desirable objectives of
elementary education in a democracy?” “What are these
objectives?” “How shall we determine the degree to
which we are attaining them P” These are some of the
questions which this yearbook helps answer.

Negro Songs of Protest.

Collection by Lawrence Gellert. Carl Fischer, Inc.,

New York. $1.00. '

This interesting compilation of songs published under
the sponsorship of the American Music League, 156 Fifth
Avenue, New York City, has been collected from plan-
tations, chain gangs and lumber camps. Reflecting as
they do the daily round of life in the Black Belt, they are,
aside from their musical and literary worth, human docu-
ments embodying the living voice of the otherwise inar-
ticulate resentment against injustice.

Tricks, Toys, and Tim.

By Kreigh Collins. D. Appleton-Century Company,
New York. $2.00.

There are three sections in this intriguing book—A
Number of Things to Make; Magic, and the Time Ma-
chine. The first section describes a number of things any
boy can make, such as a Gloucester fishing schooner, a
fort, a sled ice boat and a gnome show. The second sec-

' resourceful boy named Tim transports himself into

  
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
      
    
   
  

tion is devoted to magic and includes full direction
making the necessary apparatus and performing a 1
ber of startling feats. In the third section a lively

past and has a number of fascinating adventures.

Safety Through the Year—~For Upper Grades.
By Florence Nelson, Olis G. Jamison and Ray ‘
E. Sparks. M-cGraw-Hill Book Company, I
porated, New York. $48.
This textbook continues the series begun in '
Through the Year for Intermediate Grades thoug
no way duplicates the material in the first volume
present book is made up of nine units, suliicient wo
a complete course for one year. Each unit is comp
itself and sufficiently comprehensive to be used
pendently of other material. The teacher will
addition to the factual material a variety of activiti
signed to direct the pupil's attention to the safety p
in his own community. Local happenings may be
an important part of the course and the c00pera
interested-citizens solicited. The book contains man
gestions for written work of all kinds, including s
poems, articles and debates.

The Teaching of Swimming, Diving and Water 8
By Ferd John Lipovetz. Burgess Publishing
pany, Minneapolis, Minnesota. $2.75.

The material' in this mimeographed illustrated b
practically 150 pages has been divided into live sec
A—General Theory and Practice; B—The Teachi
Swimming; C—Diving; D—Water Sports, and E
Appendix containing information regarding swi
tests, life saving efficiency records and records of v
kinds, and similar material. It is a compendium 0
ful and practical information which should have
for recreation workers and physical directors.

Oliicers and Directors of the Natio
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN II. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. W'INANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT‘GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. Bl’DDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y. “

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
' MRs. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.

MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C. ' ‘
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. t W
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H. ,

 

