   

   
   
    
 
   
   
 

‘ I

WI
4
2'
Y *0 million youth each year ready
V to mate,

Youth Leadership

0 million youth each year ready The leader is a guider of activity,

for Work, a developer of the inner self,

a discoverer of the means of growth.

'

i . dy for adventure,

. I . .
: 1t1ng to llVB.

t b 'l ' ‘2
sks will not feed them. 0 m d a hfe -

What are the substitutes for
war against the neighboring tribe,
seeking the Northwest Passage,
discovering the North Pole,

ing for youth each year must be faced anew.
lfe through. machines is not enough.

' roup moulding to other people’s ends is soon
recognized for what it is—rank impertinence.

ot what we want, not our point of view

What for each individual youth gives

matters most. growth, expansion, outreach, lift?

ut what lies within youth themselves
brought out, drawn out, will in the long run time to build a life, to grow a life,

.give enduring satisfaction.

   
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 

what avenues are open?

9 lat is within youth—1937 model, with hand,

at capacity has he, “nth vome’

with trained eye,

* at needs he 1n act1v1ty, 1n food with ear,

with skilled body,
with mind,
with all his powers united?

for his own life?
ney is but a small part of his need.

w may his family, his church, his community
r; give him emotional security,

I make him really needed,

make him really count,

build him into his 'age and generation?

for gold.

.' Always —— ever ——

the desert waste,

'ternal wealth and security alone will never
' the ocean vastness,

do it.
the uncharted air,

the inpenetrable jungles,
the snow-covered poles,

, tls power within that counts.

t’s growth of powers, capacities, relationships,
activities that matters.

the crusades,

Eouth has always hit the trail,
. -. the wars,
pioneered,

lglme West,

1. " -
been gomg places.

the battles of the spirit,
the undiscovered areas of thought,

1Youth is no different today. have called men to leave‘comfort

SEPTEMBER,II937 .

 

1:
l
.
'

 

In the free hours what may youth do

living for a time at the South Pole?

In the hours of freedom when there is

i What may each according to his gift do

Man’s cry is only in small part a cry for bread,

337

and the best have given up comfort

to follow a dream, a form of battle

a form of search, a
commanding activity.

The task of the leader and guide
is not by group pressure to make
those in his neighborhood into some
pattern he chooses for them, to build
them into a mould

but rather to know enough about the
nature of man

to try to free each individual to he
himself, to find himself, within
the limit of his possibilities.

“#—

One youth"s life must not be built at
the expense of another.

Certain fences there must be.

But the unecessary walls that thwart,
frustrate, bewilder

must be removed and outlets provided.

What are the prison walls that confine
the human spirit,

what are the chains that shackle,

what are the clouds that darken,

what are the fears that weaken,
what stops the song,

what makes the dance to cease,
what brings old ago before its time,
what takes from life its sparkle,

what blows out all the light and color,

what halts the current o-f life?

Music, drama, dance, arts, crafts, games,
athletics the leader must know.

Even more he needs to know
the nature of youth, of man,
the heart’s unspoken desire.

Of knowledge there is nor height, nor
depth, nor breadth

of what is in the heart of man

that will not serve him.

HOWARD BRAUCHE "

Joseph Lee

On the morning of July 28, 1937, Joseph Lee, for more than twenty-Seven
years President of the National Recreation Association, died of pneumonia. No
words are adequate to express the loss which the National Recreation Association
and the national recreation movement have suffered. To many the loss will come

as deeply personal.

In the near future an issue of the magazine Will be largely given over to
Joseph Lee and the meaning of his life and work. It is hoped that later a special ‘
day, the same day throughout the country, Will be set aside on the playgrounds
and in the recreation centers to pay tribute to What Joseph Lee has done for

America.

338

 

O

l
l

ecreation and the Social Integration

 

To the Twenty-second National Rec-
reation Congress at Atlantic City
Dr. Plant brought a message which
made a great impression. "Of what
i profit are techniques." he asltedl "it
attitudes and relationships are ne-
glected?" "Are results the chief
aim of your program?" Dr. Plant's
address should be read by all rec-

reation w o r l( e r s and ofticials.

ECREATION from the point of view of the psy-
chiatrist involves the attitude which one has
about a task rather that the task itself. It

; volves what comes through the way in which
ne does a thing, rather than the thing that is
one. Thus recreation fundamentally arises from
ertain attitudes.

Attitudes Versus Techniques

l This is important for a number of reasons—
. é chief one perhaps being that you cannot teach
tt'itudes. On the other hand you can teach tech-
iiques. I can teach you how to play golf, I can
ach you how to play foot—ball, to play chess, to
o arithmetic—thrbugh words. The language of
chniques is a verbal language. But I can get
:1 on to develop attitudes only through my own
ttitudes—that is, through contagion. I can give
on faith in something only through having faith
 -it myself. And if I want you really to enjoy
mething, I have to enjoy it myself. I labor
mewhat on this pointbecause to the extent that
011 are Americans, and especially to the extent
' at you are tied into the school systems of this
untry—do you find yourselves in a word-cen-
-red culture, in a culture that has definitely com-
iitted itself to the teaching of techniques._
Examples of this difference between techniques
nd attitudes, between words and psycho—motor
ansions, between what is known and what is felt,
‘resent themselves at every hand! You see it as
ne baby grows up; as he goes from one to two
ears, and then from two to three you see so
eautifully the constriction of your communica-
.on with him as that becomes more and more a

_ r0rd communication.
t, ’

iii

of the
individual

By DR. JAMES S. PLANT

Director. Essex County Juvenile Clinic
NewarkI New Jersey

Often one reads of a situation where four or
five or six people are gathered and that these peo-
ple “feel in perfect communion with each other.”
The book usually goes on to say “ though
not a word is said.” About this the book is wrong;
it should read “ because not a word is
said.”

Long before there were verbal modes of com-
munication there were these psycho—motor modes
of communicating. Long before man could pre-
dict and talk about what the weather would be to-
morroW, he showed through his dances, his body
movements and expressions, through his psycho-
motor tensions what he hoped and wanted the
weather to be.

I have elaborated this first point (that recrea-
tion has to do with the attitude with which some-
thing is done) because I am absolutely sure that
as you go back to your groups it must be with the
realization that you cannot teach attitudes—that
your groups will develop the proper attitudes only
to the extent that you have them yourselves. It is
precisely this, if I may be frank, that makes me
fearful of this sort of Conference. Out of Con-
ferences and national meetings it is so easy to
develop techniques—to develop machinery. And
here I stop—except to say that anything which
you want- to do in your local community in the
way of recreation must be something which you
absolutely believe in yourself. Here is perhaps
the one place in which you have to practice what
you preach—where, indeed, what you preach is

what you practice.

 

 

339

340 _ RECREATION AND THE SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL

Interest in Doing Rather Than in Results

Secondly, one says of recreation that it is far
more interested in the carrying through of a task
than in the result that is obtained; it is in the do—
ing of a thing rather than in the final result that
we have the real elements of recreation. Here
again you have a diliicult struggle ahead of you
because it is typical of the American culture that
it is interested in results. As long as you are get-
ting so and so many peOple together, so long as
you have such and such tournaments, when you
can advertise the thousands who compete —
America will'call you successful.

\Ve see this with the child, don’t we? We see
that in the kindergarten and first grade (and from
there on) there is praise for the result he obtains.
From these earliest years webend each one to this
philosophy of perfection—that it is the best result
that is the important consideration. Well, all right.
As long as there are trees to cut down and rivers
to dam, cities to build—for so long do we have to
have results; but unless I very much miss my
mark this is not the fundamental element in rec-
reation. To the extent that you add recreation to
the group of American activities 'that are inter-
ested in results, to that extent do you sell your
birthright for a mess of pottage.

If you are interested in physical education——
then of course you are interested in results. There
will be every sort of demand upon you as to “what
results you are getting.” Any pioneer culture has
to be interested in results. Wherever man faces
great difficulties he must believe that whatever is
worth doing is worth doing well. But I take it that
this whole movement you are in and are heading
up, carries us beyond'that.

To the extent that you tie yourselves to the re-
sults obtained, to that extent, I think, do you get
recognition in your community and get it rapidly
-—but to that extent, again I say without hesi-
tancy, you are selling your birthright for a mess
of pottage.

Recreation as an Integrating Experience

Then the psychiatrist would say about recrea-
tion that it is an integrating experience—and that
it is so_ because it follows the rhythm of the in-
dividual. '

E. C. Lindeman draws a distinction between the
tool and the machine. A tool in one’s hand—a
chisel, a plane, or whatever else—is an extension
of the individual. It follows the beck of the in-
dividual. It moves on the basis of the rhythm of

 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
 

the individual. But a machine does not do tha
it imposes its rhythm upon the worker. A
chine has its own rhythm and does not act as
extension of the individual’s rhythm.

The psychiatrist sees recreation as an integ
ing experience because it represents (as doe
tool) an extension of the rhythm of the i
vidual. Of course you can make it otherwis
you wish. You can build your organizations, }
courses and curricula, build your techniques
can come to your annual meetings and busily l
struct~machinery which will impose its rhy
upon the people of your community.

Because, of course, there is social machi
just as there is mental machinery. Moreover
one of the tragic fallacies of American tho
that it believes that because it can make every
of gadget with machinery it can make pe
happy with machinery.

This you see beautifully in the field of d
quency. Because in 1900 we had too much (1
quency we set up the juvenile court. Then as
found that that piece of machinery didn’t s
the problem we developed probation. Have
lost our faith in the ability of machinery to c
our troubles? Oh no! As delinquency Houri
we ask for more probation ochers, more
larger clinics—more machinery. You have
very courteous in inviting me here—and in lis
ing to me. I realize that it isn’t polite to ans
this in saying that I’m terribly afraid of preci
what you are doing here this week. Because w
we get together we build techniques—and we
results. We seem to have to say “we have t1
thousand in our group”——-“yes but we have thi
five hundred in our group.” This driving urg
build machinery, to measure what we do in
sults —-—this belongs to the pioneer culture
America but I don’t believe that it is of the
sence of recreation.

And why not? Because as you build macl
éry, whether it be that in the factory that ma
beautiful automobiles or that in the city that bu
an integrated playground situation—that mac
ery imposes its rhythm upon the individual an
by so much a disintegrating experience.

The Individual Must Live with Himself

I would say a fourth thing, if I may, about
reation. Unless I am very much mistaken it
mands that the individual live with himself. 3

Of course, you reply “Well, that is all I’ve I 7
doing anyway since I was born. I don’t see a

f:

-.l

 

ll

RECREATION AND THE SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF TIIE INDIVIDUAL 341

. Game techniques can be

taught. but it is only
through contagion that
attitudes are developed

 
      
     
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
       
 

l

Q.
hing particularly magi-
a1 about that.” But I
0‘ out agree with you—
eally about the last thing
hat we Americans do is
0 live with ourselves.
America has to a great
xtent. escaped into re-
lity. A peOple who have
onquered every material
dversity, a nation that
t as built and constructed
nd fabricated endlessly
‘ ad only one answer even
0 the Depression——
omehow to find more work for people! The only
nswer that America has to any problem, unless
ou people save her from this sort of thing, is
ore things to do, more things to make, more
hings to accomplish. What happens to American
en and women whom you know when they stop
orking? They crack up pretty soon, don’t they?
We psychiatrists talk a good deal about neuroses.
4 ou know, a neur’Osis is a way of escaping from
omething. Did you ever stop to think of work as
neurosis? America has to a great extent escaped
nto work. Unless I am greatly mistaken, one of
he results of an economy of plenty, one of the
ssons which the Depression was beginning to
each us, is that we begin to learn to live with
urselves, to use instead of forever making, to
liscover ourselves instead of always running out
hrough our finger tips into the world around us.
I I’m not talking from the point of view of bal-.
mcing production and consumption; of develop-
, L'ng markets or the flow of gold. It is as a matter
if its mental health that America must discover
tself, must think more of what it means to other
)eople instead of what it can do for other people.

 
    
 
  

Relationships Rather Than Mechanics

'. Again we come back to what I’ve bothered you
with several times this evening. America has been
t pioneer culture. It has had to work” its fingers

    
  

0 interest itself in results. There is nothingr to!

)ff to do the necessary things. It has been forced .

 

criticize in that. But I take it that the field of
recreation carries the banner of a new era. There
is still much to be done, there will be many new
and startling inventions, we will still produce in
plenty—but if the signs of our last thirty years
mean anything, it is in the relationships of life
rather than in the mechanics of life that we will
make our chief advances. Because recreation in-
volves the attitude with which we do something,
because recreation strengthens the rhythm of the
individual—for me, it carries the core of meaning
of this new venture.

And so :—

Recreation emphasizes the attitudes of indi—
viduals; and attitudes are not taught, they are
caught

Recreation is interested in the things which peo-
ple are doing, rather than in the finished product.
It does not marshal its baseball tournaments, or
thousands of well-trained gymnasts. It struggles
as best it can against America’s insatiable demand
for results.

Recreation is'an integrating experience for the
individual because it catches, strengthens and pro-
jects his own rhythm. Once more I warn you that
machinery is not integrating; and the better the
machinery the more disintegrating it is to the
individual. '

Recreation builds something about knowing
myself, about living with myself, about my own
development rather than that I escape into reality.

342 RECREATION AND THE SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL

Social Integration

My definition of social integration is merely the
one which I am using in our discussion tonight.
There is no compulsion that you accept it—or
even any part of it.

Very real and compelling social integration has
occurred in the past in many situations. I think
that it has occurred in those cultures and with
those people who have had a central core of mean-
ing for their total patterns. We can speak, for
instance, of a God-centered culture—because there
have been cultures in which everything that man
did, his eating, his sleeping, his going about
through the day, even his life or death, were
measured in terms of what they meant to God.
There are among primitive people, of course, still
such cultures. Here you see integration. This
does not involve regimentation; it does not neces-
sarily involve everybody’s doing the same thing.
Integration comes because everything that is done
is measured in terms of the same central core of
meaning.

We have had family-centered cultures of which
perhaps the most outstanding example lies in the
traditional Jewish culture where each person had
his place, his importance, measured in terms of
what contribution to the family this implied.
There are even some Jewish prayers which can
be said only by thefamily group—that is, in a
family—centered culture in certain situations the
individual cannot even approach God except
through the family.

There have been state-centered -cultures of
which our feudal period was perhaps the best ex-
ample. Here again there were good and bad peo-
ple—the righteous and the evil. There were those
who walked uphill and those who walked down.
In other words integration does not involve regi-
mentation. What it does involve is that every one
of these events is to be interpreted in terms of, or
in reference to, the development of the state.

One of the most dramatic aspects of our pre-
sent situation is its social disin-
tegration—that it lacks any cen-

. institutions.

  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

cation” may go a long way. Note how we we
solve each of our problems by raising the age
which children must attend school. Grades .
degrees have become quite as much a measure
social as of intellectual status. How long this
last or how far it will go, I don’t know. Anot
centering idea has been that 'of profit. In
with some accuracy one could speak of the pe
since 1870 as a profit-centered period—in w
man’s success and happiness were meas
in terms of money. Notice how America
measured its whole development in terms of
American standard of living”—in which what
possessed has been more and more the measu
rod. It is my own impression that knowl
(rather than wisdom) and goods (rather I
goodness) are not going to develop as the cen
ing factors in our culture. But they may.

Be that as it may—you will see that social
tegration on any basis which has occurred in
past is pretty much opposed to anything for w
your group is fighting. As I see it, either rec
tion has nothing to do with social integrat
or the latter must develop around meanings w
it has not used in the past.

It is because of my belief that this latter n
sibility is now developing that I ask leave to sp
for a little while on the matter of an individ
centered culture. I think that there is a good a
of evidence that slowly and laboriously an in
vidual-centered culture is developing. It may t
five more—or fifteen more—generations, but t
it is on its way I have some feeling of certai
There is some data in support of this—some d
that family, school, court, etc., are asking w
they mean to the individuals they touch, rat
than what do these individuals mean to

For instance within the family everywh
throughout the country is a rapidly developing
terest in what the family experience means
each of its members—and,
course, particularly what

l

tral core of reference to which
we can tie our various preoccu--
pations and activities. The past
two generations have made the
two abortive efforts. It’s my im-
pression that neither will last.
Admittedly one of these—cen-
tering about what is called “edu-

"There will be every sort of de-
mand upon you as to 'what results
you are getting' . . . To the extent
that you tie yourselves to the re-
sults obtained, to that extent. I
think, do you get recognition in
your community and get it rapidly
—but to that extent. I say without
hesitancy. you are selling your
birthright for mess of pottage.”

  
 
  
 

means to the child. '
The school is certainly v
dehnitely asking what this
perience means to the child.
teacher’s interest in living rat
than academic subjects sho .
this shift from a curriculum-c ‘

tered to a child-centered sch 
(Continued on page 390) i 

l

   
      
 

  

necessary to rack one’s brains for ideas for
a party, because, of course, there will have
, to be at least one, perhaps two or three, to include
everyone.

‘ Each year it’s the same: Hallowe’en—a party,
not only because this holiday lends itself to par-
: ties, but because it keeps the “young-uns” out of
mischief. Still it is difficult after a while to find
new ideas, since the traditions of Hallowe’en can-
not be escaped. Streamlined Twentieth Century
ghosts? Red and blue decorations? Impossible!
There must be the same old ghosts, the same
hooked-nose witch astride her broom, and the
9 same old pumpkins and bats and orange and black
crcorationsl But they must be presented from a

new angle. A carnival for everyone, young and
did, might do it. We’ll try it!

I IALLowE’EN rolls round once more and it is

    
  
 
    
 
  
 

General Plan

The Hallowe’en party is to be a carnival in an
institution, recreation center or on a playground.
Everyone, young and old, is to come and partici-
pate in a number of different activities running
simultaneously in booths. To avoid congestion
and add to the fun each guest will be given a
“roll of bills” (play money) which will admit
him to the concessions. One special bill can be
exchanged for refrEshments. If you feel more
ambitious, a program of songs and skits and other
Hallowe’en’ “doings” may be given either before

the carnival booths are open or after they are
-: closed.

Invitations

Publicize the party in order to let all in the
,neighborhood, or parents or friends of center
members, know about it before they make other
plans. Posters and mimeographed or “hekto-
graphed” announcements and spooky invitations
“ made in the craft classes will carry the message.

For a l-lallowe'en Carnival

"Hobgoblins. elves and gruesome things
Now may be passing by.

The gypsy witch is out tonight —
So pause. tal<e heeclI draw nigh."

Decorations

To suggest decorations in detail is to steal half
the fun of being on the decorating committee.
Using the traditional Hallowe’en “tokens” any
number of different effects may be had through
stressing any one token or symbol or through dif-
ferent arrangements. Decorations may be elabo-
rate, or they 'may be simple and still be effective.
Here, to remind you, are a few of the things you
can use: witches and the owls, cats, bats, broom-
sticks and caldrons associated with them; pump—
kins (of cardboard boxes or real ones,) ghosts, spi-
ders, skulls, skeleton, bones, chains and any other
spooky objects you can find.

For the carnival booths make attractive posters
and have a costumed Spieler to draw the crowd.
Decorate the stalls or rooms used for booths, and
make signs for each with the name of the game
or activity and the price of admission. Booths
may be made of cartons, screens or a light wood
frame covered with paper or burlap.

Money

Mimeograph quantities of money on paper of
different colors. Quite a number of “bills” can be
drawn on one sheet of paper for they need only
be about 2% x41/4 inches. Each person should
be given enough money so that he can participate
in every activity if he so wishes. Each bill may be'
marked a different value and each game charged
one of those values; each piece may be labelled as
a pass to a certain game, or the money be used
in any way the owner desires. (He may 'spend it
all on two or three activities.) One special piece
at least must be set aside for refreshments lest a

, few hungry ones “buy out” the booth. Slips of

paper may have the money value crayoned on if
a mimeograph is not handy. Let the sums be
large—$10, $20 and $50 at least. Let everyone
feel rich for this one occasion!

343

344 . FOR A HALLOWEEN CARNIVAL.

The Carnival Booths

The Chamber of Horrors. No Hallowe’en party
would be complete without some creepy activity.
The Chamber of Horrors will provide that. Its
exact nature depends somewhat on available fa—
cilities. A separate room, dark, or darkened with
. paper bats hung from the ceiling, strips of paper
blown by a fan, soft objects on the floor to step
on and spooky sonnds of chains and groans and
screams give the desired effect. There may be_a
dimly lighted corpse and two yellow eyes gleam-
ing in a corner. When a group has gathered, seat
everyone and pass around in the dark the parts of
the late Mr. . . . . . . . ., telling a slightly gruesome
story all the while about his sad fate. Grapes
may be used for his eyes, a moist sponge for his
brain, beans for his teeth, dried peaches for his
ears, fur or a doll’s wig for his hair, empty spools
for his vertebrae, boiled macaroni for
his windpipe and an old glove full of
.moist sand for his hand.

The Witch's Museum. In the mu;
seum are stands on which appropri-
ately labelled objects are laid. Here
are a few possibilities: Famous ghosts
(pictures of famous people who have
died); witch’s charms (rabbit’s foot,
wish bone, penny, four-leaf clover and
horseshoe); bones (a'pair of dice);
witch’s affinity (cat); witch’s cooking
utensil (caldron), and witch’s means of transpor-
tation (broom).

o,

Black Magic. This booth is presided over by
anyone who can do a few magic tricks. Dressed
as a witch, he or she casts spells and mutters
“abacadabras” while performing. Many people,
young and old, know one or more magic tricks;
these can be pooled and one person perform them.
From time to time the ten cent stores have sim—
ple books on tricks and the library will provide
more. This type of booth ought to be a room with
chairs, but a closed off corner of a room and paper
mats on the floor will suffice. Everyone should be
able to see.

Fortune Telling. A black cat, a ghost, or a witch

may tell the fortunes in any one of several ways. '

A large mirror may be set up in a darkened booth.
The “victim” closes his or her eyes, opens them
when told to and sees the image of his or her true
love in the mirror. Two “images,” one dressed as

 

  
 
 
    
   
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
  

a dilapidated tramp, the other as a prim old ma
hide in a corner and step out and look over I
shoulder of the “victim” at the right moment, l
old maid looking over the shoulder of a man,
tramp over the shoulder of a'girl.

The fortunes may be told by cards or be 
from symbols inked on pumpkin seeds selected
the “victim” who reaches into the pumpkin
picks out several at random. The meaning of -.
symbol is written out in advance fOr the fo
teller.

The Witch's Caldron. This is but a dresse
version of “Fish Pond.” Each person “fis
into the witch’s caldron and keeps what he cat
This may be a stick of candy or a cheap no
present. Each perSon should have one ti

marked “witch’s caldron” so that one person t
not “fish” the caldron dry.

The Ghost Walk

Dancing might be included on
program. It may be carried on i
roped-off section of the auditorium
gymnasium with the booths about
walls, or it may be held in anot
room. Of course there should b
charge—in the make—believe bills.

Ghost Stories
If you have some one who can te
good ghost story, set up a booth .
announce the “Most 'Ghostly of Gh
Stories of All Times.” This story should not 1
over five minutes, and a group should be gathe
and the doors closed during the story.

Games of Skill

For those desiring more active pa’rticipati
have a number of skill game booths appropriat
labelled. These. games may well be the usual p
gressive game type of activity dressed up to
the theme. Here are a few games which take lit
space and are challenging. Prizes may.or may

be given, but a “fee” is charged as at the ot
booths.

I. Bobbing for Apples—or Apples on a Stri

These are so traditional they need no explanati .
Do not omit them. '

 
    

2. Pin the Tail on the Cat. (For children). Bli
fold the children, let them attempt to pin a tail
a tailless cat hung on a wall.

(Continued on page 391)

- I

T!
. '

      
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
     

l'

l
| v
z  norms BROOKS, shoe work-
! er, is home from the factory
' at half past four in the
ternoon. Since the factory went on a forty-
ur-week schedule, he has three additional hours
‘ '- daily. He is not tired but feels dull from the
.- ind of the machine. Its noise still burns in his
9 rs. He feels restless after being tied to his
l rk bench for eight hours. He 10115 about the
use; finds little to do; scolds the children be—
. use he is irritated. He picks up the new5paper,
. ads the comics, glances through the sport page,
tans the headlines, and looks at the movie ad-
' ertisements. He finds, with regret, that he has
lready seen one picture Sunday night and will
iot be able to go again until pay day, Friday.
ell, he will see the boys at the back room at
' inty’s saloon later in the evening. Perhaps, he
" ill be luckier than he was last night. He argues
v- th his wife for not having supper ready sooner
: «- spanks Thomas, In, for annoying his sister.
Thomas Brooks is one of the 199 workers out
a total of 782 who wrote, “I hang around the
1se doing nothing,” in describing, for a local
estionnaire, the manner in which he spends his
e time. One-third of the total number of free
urs of these workers, an average of 13% hours
eek, was spent in this absorbing manner. The
estionnaire was distributed among 3,500 work-
. in Binghamton, New York, and vicinity dur—
~_ March, 1935. It attempted to discover how
‘ e hours were alloted in a single week to various
ivities and what the worker would prefer to
if he had more time and more income. This
sh dy was undertaken because it became increas—
». 1y evident that with the introduction of the
* rter week in most of our Binghamton factor-
r , the workers possess far more hours of free-
‘ 1 than they spend in toil. This survey, among
3 er things, brought to our attention forcefully
t fact that one-third of the workers examined,
.. u to some extent the rest of the
l up, are killing time, a murder that
l = om goes unpunished. Festering in
Ir ness eventually prepares the -back-
29 und for broken homes, delinquency
nd neuroses.
. his “windfall” of new hours may
ball"SDth “in doing nothing at home”

:wer-vssu-‘rm-u...”

       
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

3"-

  

?- 1w- 1-325:

I

 

Time to Kill

By JULIAN L. GREIFER
Bingham’ron, New York

increasingly, and “doing noth—
ing” in saloons and on street
corners. Ill-spent leisure may
mean an increase in crime. When many of the
textile mills in the south reduced their Working
week to 44 hours, it was noted that the rate of de-
linquency in those localities trebled. Leisure pro-
perly utilized gives the worker physical and emo-
tional relaxation. He is likely to become more
cheerful and cooperative on the job, to lead a more
normal family life, and to hold more steadily to his
employment. The new leisure that has fallen in the
lap of 60% of our population should be of con-
cern to the industrialist and should bring to the
social worker the'realization that it may become
a disturbing factor in social relations. The church
and the school should become cognizant of a re-
sponsibility they have been neglecting. It is a
challenge that no community dare ignore.

Promise, Danger and Challenge Are Involved!

Many social workers, school people, sociologists;
and psychologists have realized the promise, the
danger and the challenge implied in this gift of
the machine, the abundance of free time. They
have played their spotlight on the many phases of
this problem and its implications. “Our Grow-
ing Leisure,” “Leisure in the Modern World,”
“The Bright and Perilous Face of Leisure,” “The
New Leisure Challenges the Schools,” “The
Threat of Leisure,” “The Menace of Leisure” are
the titles of some of the contributions to the vast
literature that has grown around the subject. So
much has been written that voices of skeptics are
now being heard “pooh poohing” all this excite-
ment as so much ado about very little. It is point—
ed out by some authorities that workers are still
so poorly paid that it is out of the question for
them to indulge in recreation. Some of the re-
sponses received through the questionnaire touch
on this problem: “I support three people. My

It is an encouraging sign that increasingly study
is being given to the leisure time needs and de-
sires of individuals. This report on the desires
of practically 800 workers is a significant one.

345

346 TIME TO KILL

husband has had no work for
two years. I have no time for
fun.” “I’m too tired when I get
through with my work to think
of anything.” “Give the worker
less to worry about and he will
take care of his own leisure.”
“I like to work around a house
but I can’t afford one.”

Nor is the worker barred
from the enjoyment of his leisure only because of
his meager income; his problem is more than the
lack of money. It is a whole complex of limita-
tions that enslaves him. Not only does the
wretchedness of his environment, his cultural and
educational shortcomings confine him, but he has
also been victimized by a set of values left him as
a heritage by an age of scarcity. He has been
inoculated with the doctrine that work is sacred,
while leisure is sinful idleness. From his school

days, he has been tied to a life of pure utility, _

ignoring its play and its decorative periphery. As
John Dewey describes it: “We say that all men
are free and then provide them with the mechani—
cal training and life that enslaves them.” It is
therefore not surprising that he finds himself not
only without means, but ill-prepared, helpless, and
bewildered in the face of an increase in unem—
ployed time.

Poverty and unemployment comprise a problem
apart and should be of grave concern to the econo—
mist and every socially minded citizen. But we
must realize that the great majority of people at
work today (84% of our total working popula-
tion)have had their working hours considerably
reduced. The working class is slowly emerging
as a leisure class. In communities like Bingham-
ton, where unemployment has not been as severe
as elsewhere, where the increase of free time
after working hours is constant, the problem‘ of
the increase of the leisure time of the industrial
workers must be met. Good community plan-
ning, civic responsibility, and a socially minded
educational system demand it.

Knowledge Is Essential

In order to plan for a wholesome and socialized
use of free time by our wage earning population
it was necessary for us to know their present lei-
sure time habits, interests and desires, so that we
might devise an adequate program and build the
needed resources.

We invited shoe workers, pin rackers, furniture

Professor Paul Douglas of the Uni-
versity of Chicago found that
while during the thirty years prior
to l9l4 only 7.8 hours were cut off
the average week, between |9l4
and I920 it decreased another five
hours. In recent years the 35-40
hour week has cut into working time
even more. Fifty hours of freedom
weekly is becoming the general rule.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  

movers, railroad men, oper
tors in clothing factories,bake
and many other types of wor
ers to answer our questionnai
Of the 782 responding, 483 w
men and 299 were women a
the largest group (541) rang
between the ages of 20 and a
The majority had not gone I
yond the eighth grade edu
cationally, as we anticipated.

Here is a picture of the ten highest rank'
activities, according to the number of hours sp

in each :

i
l

Avg. Weekly Nam :

  

 
 

A ctim’t y H our: A name 1
Doing nothing at home . . . . . . . . . .. 13.4 19
Care of home and grounds . . . . . . .. 10.3 i 33 
Talking to people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8.8 34
Listening to dance music on radio. . 7.7 451
Reading newspapers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.5 56

Motoring for pleasure . . . . . . . . . .. 6.2 20

Visiting friends and relatives . . . . .. 5.0 207

Reading story magazines . . . . . . . . .. 4.5 21

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.6 38

Religious services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.2 29

This table does not tell a very cheering sto
“Doing nothing” ranks high. A lot of talking
people and visiting neighbors,relatives and f rien
which means more talking, is second in impo
ance. In the main, sitting-down pleasiJres are i
dulged in: listening to dance music on the rad
movies, motoring, magazine story reading (usua
of the so-called “pulp” variety: True Fictio
True Love, True Detective or Amazing Fictio
Amazing Lorre, Amazing Detective, etc.), new
paper reading—and-here recent studies reveal th «
such reading implies in order of time spent: comi
first, sports second, and scanning the headlin
third. Care of home and grounds, with 10
hours a week, appears to be the one creative 3
tivity high on the scale, but upon analysis its hi
promise must be deflated. Its large total shou
be ascribed to the fact that women, who avera
16.1 hours a week in home care, used up most I
that time in clearing away the breakfast dish
upon their return from the factory, preparing t
evening meal and doing the house chores. T
men seem to loll about the house getting in the ,
way while the women work. The men report
5.0 hours “working around the home and ground .
to the women’s 16.1 hours. Both men and worn
spend equal time listening to the radio and at t I
movies, but while the women seem to do mo 
talking and visiting, the men sit around at t 5
beer garden or indulge in card playing to a mu_ a

\-

.

TIME TO KILL 347

lightly more than men but as a whole it appears
that less than 40% of the group attend weekly
ligious services.
There does not seem to be any physical activity
I tat occupies much of their time, no evidence of
eboperative recreation, no participation in cultural
'1' educational group activities. As a whole, their
'ccupations during leisure supply them with few
hd limited outlets, some excitement but few re-
eases for suppressed energy, and little utilization
r the areas of personality that dry up in the
ctory atmosphere. Since production has been
tandardized, the use of the conveyor system has
ecome general and routine tasks specialized, emo-
ional and nervous strain on the job has definitely
ncreased

greater extent. Church going interests women
3
4'

l
l

What Does He Do?

The tired worker “escaping” from his toil in-
ulges in what relieves the tired business man, as
ur study and many other researches have rlis-
losed. If he has a car, he sets out for nowhere
nd gets there, satisfied by the mere speed of mo-
ion. At the movies he sees how the wealthy be-
ave, or how Hollywood thinks the wealthy be-
:‘ve. He thus gets his intimate touch with luxury.
'e takes his pleasures sitting down, by injection,
1: the tight ring, the football stadium, the bleach-
r's. The worker spends, it is estimated, 13% of
is income on tobacco, 11% on candy, 10% on
' covies, 8% on sport, 5% on drink, 3% on radio,
4% on reading.
; ,Obviously when the time of work is shortened
fl one-third, the worker will not dash madly to
ii'braries, schools, oratorios, art museums, or get
0st in the rapturous ado-
ation of nature. He will
pend his leisure as he has
 the idle rich spend
heirs, but without“ the
)ther outlets the rich have
hat serve them as correc-
ives. These circus occu-
)ations d u r i n g leisure
lours leave dissatisfaction
and frustration in their
vake, jangled nerves and
leavy heads the morning
.fter. “What a sad
ieople Americans must
re,” remarked Maxi m

.I iorky when he visited
I

"The attendant of automatic tools does not
live on the iob: he exists against the time
when he can begin to live—when he leaves the
shop. His task does not call for a fraction
of his full powers as a sentient being or mo-
nopolize his interest; he leaves it with the
gladness of a convict escaping prison. Psy-
chologists say that a large part of industrial
unrest is due to the 'inhibition which auto-
matic tools place upon the expression of per-
sonality through labor. . . . The fact is that
hours given to tending automatic machines
are given to buy leisure; and in that leisure the
operative lives. He lives in his sports. the mov,-
iesI at the prize tights, at the saloonI as well
as the theater. the lecture. the library, in the
park and on the front porch of his inamora-
ta."—Queen and Mann in Social Pathology.

turbulent Coney Island. In the opinion of Cyril
Burt, noted British psychologist. “The deliberate
swallowing of enjoyments resembles the deliberate
drinking of brandy or wine. Mental excitement,

, like cocktails and cocaine, soon palls and leaves

behind a deeper boredom than the boredom it
was meant to kill. You need larger and stronger
doses to get an adequate kick.”

What the Worker Needs

What the worker needs, after he is released
from the ties of the .machine is a safety valve that
will give expression to that part of his personality
that was suppressed during working hours, those
capacities that remained unused and rusted.
Human nature, as John Dewey has often repeated,
is determined by forces and energies that demand
certain normal outlets, otherwise conflict eventu-
ates. These unoccupied workers’ hours could be-
come a tremendous regenerative and recreative
force in our society. The worker could be lifted
out of the position of drone on robot into that of
a conscious, thinking citizen with a fully rounded
personality, keenly aware of his potentialities.

Leisure has certain recreative functions in life.
To permit the general functions to operate ef-
fectively, we need an increase in the worker’s
income, the improvement of communal resources
and the education of the worker for their utiliza—
tion. The raising of the income level is in the lap
of the mighty forces now at play in America.
Community resources will be forthcoming when
the crying need of the worker is brought dra-
matically home to the forces in control in every

community. There is a pressing need, however,
' for the accumulation of

more facts regarding
workers’ leisure time bud-
gets, and a knowledge of
their interests and prefer-
ences, so that we can plan
more judiciously and sci-
entitically.

Their Preferences

In 0111' Binghamton
study we afforded the
workers an opportunity to
express their wishes and
preferences, assuming they
had time and money. We
found that their prefer-

348

enccs do not deviate far
from what they are actually
doing now in their spare
hours. One hundred thirty-
three put motoring on top
of the list, movies and
watching games came third
and fourth,_visiting and at-
tending musical shows took
ninth and .tenth place re-
spectively. The other ac-
tivities they desired, within
the limit of the upper ten,
were participation in out-
door sports, such as hiking,
swimming and horseback
riding. In the minority
groupings, we found twenty-
seven who wanted to study,
nineteen to attend night
school; eighty-four wanted
more reading of books and
magazines; sixteen wanted
more lectures and debates;
thirteen wanted a class in
music appreciation, utilizing
the phonograph; fifteen
wanted arts and crafts.
Over 100 wrote in subjects
they preferred to discuss with
others. Their selected subjects
ranged from “doctoring” to car-
tooning, archery to girls. What
they want to talk about falls into
the expected categories: to know
more about their own jobs, to re-
train for some other occupation
and to acquire knowledge of general subjects.
Everything knowable is of interest to them. Shoe-
workers are curious about astronomy, a carpenter
wants to get acquainted with entomology, a printer
wants to know more about flowers, two laborers
.want to learn “typistry.” Interest is high in mat-
ters of current issue, politics and the various
aspects of the depression. As one worker put it,
“I want to find out how to acquire and keep a
living wage.”

Courtesy Chicago Park District

The Community’s Responsibility

The great majority may desire to participate
more intensely in activities they are already en—
gaged in, but they also place high on the scale
their eagerness for outdoor activities. Play fields

TIME TO KILL

 

There is fortunately a growing
number of cities where working
men and women may go to cre-
ate and where they may, by
participation in activities they
themselves desire, become‘more
aware of their potentialities.

 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   

for baseball and tenn'
skating rinks for ice a
roller skates, swimming f
cilities, public dancin
places, if provided sol
for adults under public c
trol and properly survis
would go a long way
wards lessening the ov
indulgence in sitting—do
pleasures. The commer
amusement m e r c h a n
would find it difficult
compete with a variety
absorbing activities offe
by the city, under plea ..
surrOundings, with
charge. The recent vo
of commercial play cent
where grown—ups play pi
pong, chess, checkers, vi
freaks and try their hand
gambling machines, is a s
commentary on the sho
sightedness and the ba
wardness of our educatio
leadership. Why. are th
not more community c
ters offering such mild o
lets for energy and pursuits tl
are satisfying to a very great
gree? Why are so many pub
school gyms kept closed at nigh

It is the choice minority t
indicated its interest in disc1
sions, or who would like to ta
part in dramatics, play in a bai
learn to write, to paint, to sing with a chor
They particularly stand in need of leadersh'
There are in our community at the present ti1
many agencies that could provide leadership a1 '
facilities for their use. The next step is the p
paration of a cross-section of all the progral '
which these institutions offer and the setting up i l
a clearing bureau to bring this new clientelle a1 '
the service agency together.

' Our study, while indicative of much that cou ‘
be done now, needs amplification, follow up, a ‘
opens many avenues for further research.
findings must be brought to the attention of 0
city fathers so as to galvanize them into acti .
While we are waiting for the economist, sociol,

,.
(Continued on page 392) 

 

?

I

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
    

Developing

N SPEAKING of a community
center, I think of it as an
institution which is both
creational and educational in
ture—a center which pro—
des an atmosphere where
ople may Find during their
'sure time relaxation and
yous self-expression through
rticipation in purposeful ac-
ities under the stimulating
d sympathetic guidance of
ined leaders. I think of it as a place where the
L articipants in such activities are provided an op-
ortunity for the use and progressive develop-
ment of the abilities and skills they possess, are
timulated to seek out and experiment in new
; elds of activity, are assisted in satisfactory social
,1 justments and aided toward the development
community consciousness through mutual in-
. rest, improvement and growth.

I n a progressive community center of this type
is the club work program which offers us one
the best mediums for making our work educa-
: nally and socially valuable. It is a means of
c veloping proper attitudes and human conduct
ich to a large extent are determined by group
ivities. '

' Through club work we can create, by providing
gt od leadership, intelligent organization, a stimu-
,~' ing and challenging program, that kind of an
;a vironment which contributes to personality de-
' ' "opment and social-mindedness. For just as the
c mmunity center, with its broad and varied pro-
,2}! m determined by community interests and
ds, is a powerful force in perpetuating democ-
. y, so the club in the community center is edu-
w ionally sound and a splendid training school
it democracy.

l | It is understood that when we speak of a club
are setting off one part of our held of aetivity,
-' t which provides small 'cohesive units or
lg ups within the larger unit which is the com-
: nity center. These clubs are identified by hav-
l'. ' regular meetings, officers, generally a consti-
t 'on and a set of records, and they usually de-
I- themselves to some specific interest. In many
‘- tances this interest is nothing more than a de-
sire on the part of the individuals to belong to

dent of the

  
 
    
 

  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
  

l

i

By ALAN KRIM

Mr. Krim, who is the director of
the Peshine Community Center con-
ducted by the Newark. New Jersey'
Board of Education, is also presi-
Newark Recreation
Teachers' Association and of the
New Jersey Recreation Teachers'
Association. He has used the club

method largely in

I I '
o

Clubs in Community. Centers

something which gives them a

sense of membership, partici-
:ri pation and a“ feeling of ex-

; Clusiveness.

Experience' has taught us
that- the success of the club
within the community center
is to a large degree dependent
ilpon three factors — leader-

, ship, organization. and pro:
his program. gram.
Leadership

As with any successful venture, so with the
club grOUp, the most important factor is leader-
ship. Leaders can be divided into three classes.
There is first of all the leader whose authority
rests on the position he occupies; the type who is '
always giving orders and forbidding anything and
everything because it does not meet with his ap—i
proval or conform to the plans as laid out by him.
This type of leadership is undesirable and does
not lend itself to the formation .of a self-disciplin-
ed, social-minded group. Such a leader occupies-
the center of the stage instead of allowing the
membership the spotlight.

The second type of leader is the teacher or in-
structor t‘ype whose authority rests on his or her
knowledge of the activity in which the club is in-
terested. The program offered is based on the
interest of the individuals and from this interest
projects are developed. This type of leadership,
while necessary for a certain type'of club where
group activity is motivated by a particular interest,
has elements of danger in that the activity too
often is the end instead of the means to an end.

The third type of leader is the counselling,
guiding, or companion kind of leader, whose au-
thority rests on his ability to establish himself with
the group and live with its members, gaining their
confidence. This type of leader develops a pro-
gram that is sociologically sound, one which grows
out of the situation in which the group finds itself.
This is the leader who is emotionally mature, ver-
satile, creative, resourceful, with an inquiring ex-
perimental point of view.

The chief cause for the disintegration of clubs
is lack of good leadership. It would be interesting
to know the number of clubs organized each year

349

350 DEVELOPING CLUBS IN- COMMUNITY CENTERS

that die a natural death because of inadequate
leadership. With intelligent, emotionally matured
leadership, the program and details of organiza-
tion is readily evolved. Lacking good leadership,
no plan can be developed nor machinery set up
that will take the place of it.

Whether professional or volunteer leadership
is most effective has no bearing on the presenta-
tion of this article. I am taking it for granted
that our boys and girls as the citizens of tomorrow
are entitled to the finest quality of leadership that
is available, and no arbitrary rule can be laid
down. There are hundreds of volunteers serving
with the finest of professional pride in their work,
and paid workers who are functioning with a de-
votion' that is out of all proportion to the amount
of compensation they are receiving. Leadership
must and should be recruited from both fields
and given a sense of dignity and worth of the
task that is undertaken.

I am not ready to say whether the ability to
lead is natural or acquired. I do believe, however,
that the best natural ability can be improved and
is made most effective with adequate techniques.

In too many instances leaders receive no help
whatever, no guidance or supervision, and practi-
cally lose all contact with the administration after
their assignment. Those who do make provision
for training usually concentrate too much on pro—
gram material and such matters as discipline and
organization, with too little emphasis on the new-
est development in the fields of modern psy-
chology and sociology.

It is a false assumption to say that little can be
expected from volunteer club leaders. Those of us
who have attempted to guide and direct such
leaders know with what enthusiasm they have re-
sponded. In fact, these volunteer club leaders look
upon this leadership training as an educational
opportunity. It is important to note that whether
the leadership is voluntary or paid,'experienced or
inexperienced, expert supervision and intensive
training must be encouraged constantly. With
inspirational guidance from you, the trained com-
munity center director, these club leaders, through
frequent consultations, should acquire progressive
educational procedure and a realization that ac—
tivities in a club program are only a means to an
end.

As you keep yourself informed as to the new-
est development in the field of psychology and
sociology, so you should in turn inform those in
your charge. This is important, for it helps keep

  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
      
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
      
   
  
 
  
 
   
  

your community center club program dynami
and changing.

Among other considerations of leadership th
can be approached in a practical manner are
following: Is the best type of leadership th
which has been developed within the communi
center itself among young people who are famili
with the neighborhood and with the homes a
cultural environment which the boys and gi
themselves represent, or is it preferable to enl
college graduates and fairly successful young p
ple from‘ entirely different walks of life to bri
to the boys and girls the contacts and cultural .

vantages which they may be presumed to posse . p

i

  

The choice between these two types of lead
should not be made in an arbitrary manner as b
types have a contribution to make. There are .
vantages that cannot be ignored in the plan
bring older boys and girls from the commun'
center into positions of leadership. It provides .
incentive to the older boys and girls and is
means of making the loyalty of this older group
factor in building the permanent traditions a
ideals of the center.

In order for club leadership to be effective it
important that regular conferences or meeti
should be held. At these conferences the leade
may talk over their mutual interests and the a
rector has an opportunity to enlarge upon t
philosophy, principles and techniques of gro
activities and of individual boy and girl proble
-~—-—an educational process that is going on re
larly and which is tied in very closely with t
administrative task of the community center ll
rector. It is also a good idea to have a dinn ‘
meeting where you can “break bread,” for th '
creates a spirit of good will. Remember, leade
ship is your strongest link and represents t -
strength of your organization and club program

Organization . I

While no arbitrary rules can be laid down f o l
the organization of groups or clubs, it is neve '.
theless important that spontaneity be preserv
and that groups as well as individuals be consi
ered from the standpoint of their own interes
and desires. Occasionally we find an artifici
group cultivating common interests, providing t ‘
age range is not too wide, the leadership is wi
and the environment stimulating and challengin .
We in Newark, however, have come to recogni :, 1
two distinct types of clubs. U

'V .

i ;

 

' l

' The first type is the group which is discovered
- fter it is already formed, in which some nat-
fral motivation had created the group conscious-
Iess. Usually we find this group coming to us
d asking for a place to meet. Their ideas on
l lub organization are vague but they do function
‘xcellently under leadership.
!' In the second type we find the group that is
‘ganized around a specific interest or activity.
I“ club of this nature may be initiated by posting
l Otices on the bulletin board, or it is the result of
talk given at a special program, or of the casual
nterest of one or two boys. Handcraft, music,
ramatics, debating, fencing, scout troops and
.thers too numerous to mention fall under this
ategory. In connection with this type of club it
s Well to have application forms indicating the
terest on the part of the applicant. In this way
t is relatively easy to bring individuals of like
j terests together, thereby creating a more homo-
.';en0us grouping. We have been using the fol-

l a wing form :

l
PESHINE COMMUNITY CENTER
INDIVIDUAL CLUB APPLICATION

‘ ame of Applicant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Age . . . . .
ome Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

usiness Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .o . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ome Phone . . . . . . . . . ..Busmess Phone . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

ame of Club Applicant Wishes to Join . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ve You Been a Member of Another Club? . . . . . . . . . . .

l'eason for Leaving Other Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .How Long Member? . . . . . . . .

chat Are Your Interests? . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. ow Long Have You Been Attending

f This Center? . . . . . .  . . . ._ . . . . . . . .
EMARKS (not to be written In by the

'j applicant)  . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . ..

l . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I These two types of clubs form
"1 e major portion of your club
rogram. However, there are any
i umber of combinations of these.
X great many of your clubs may
)e the result of gangs formed be-.
:ause the boys are approximately
)f the same age, have common
nterests or live in the same block.

There are clubs organized
around a specific interest
or activity such as dancing

’-

1 ‘ DEVELOPING CLUBS IN COMMUNITY CENTERS 351

This is particularly true of school age boys and
girls. In this case the danger is that the loyalty to
the club, the smaller unit, is greater than it is to
the community center. In this situation it is the
task of good leadership to conserve all of the
values in loyalty to the Small group without set-
ting up any conflict with the principles or ideals
of the larger unit of which the boy and group are
a part.

School age boys and girls as a rule want formal .
organizations with officers, memberships, rules
and dues. These details should be developed as
the club functions, and modified as it grows.
However, in the matter of dues, rules have turned
out to be a necessary evil because of failure to
deposit the money with the proper person. The
boy or girl treasurer too often was permitted to
be the custodian of money and in too numerous
cases the money disappeared, leaving distaste for
club organization on the part of its membership.
This has been the cause of the disintegration of
many a club. If dues are to be collected, it is ad-
visable for the club treasurer to collect them and
at the close of each meeting to turn the amount
collected over to the community center director.
This procedure makes the director, who is a more
mature individual, the custodian.

In addition to receipting the treasurer’s book,
the director should have a system of deposit and
withdrawal slips. The keeping of the financial ac-
count can be made as simple as the following,

 

352 DEVELOPING CLUBS IN COMMUNITY CENTERS

which.is not an original method. The treasurer
should keep the record.

RECORD BOOK

 

 

of the
. . . . . ..-.........Clnb 
Name May 1 May 8 May 15 May 22
Henry Brown . . . V V.10 V.0.5 V.0.'3
Jack Smith . . . . . V.05 V 10 T .05
Allan Jones . T 05 T I V.10
Robert king . I V 10 V 0.5 I
Members present. 3 4 3 3
Total Receipts . . .10 .20 .20 . .20
Director's Sig. Rec’d Rec’d
Bill Farley Bill Farley
Dir. Dir.

As indicated, the record book contains space to
record attendance and dues paid, together with
space at bottom of each day’s record for totals
and for director’s signature, which is the treas—
urer’s receipt for money turned over to" the

director.
Upon calling the roll, the secretary checks all

present with a V. Those not answering to roll are
marked with a vertical line  If the member
comes in later, the absent mark becomes a' record
of tardiness by the addition of a cross mark at
the top (T). The treasurer records the dues as
indicated. I

Constitution and By-Laws. It is a good idea
to provide club leaders with a model constitution.
We use the following:

ARTICLE I

Name
This club shall be known as the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

ARTICLE II
Purpose

The purpose of this club is for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(social intercourse, general culture, civic improvement,
or whatever may be the chosen object of the club.)

ARTICLE III
Membership

Membership in this club shall be granted to those in
sympathy with its purpose. (State if members must be
over a, certain age, married'or single.)

ARTICLE IV
Officers

The officers of, this club shall be a president, _a vice-
pre51dent, a secretary, afud a treasurer. a, M2,;

«r "i " ‘lARTICLE V "

“.Ilgeetings and Quorum _
Section 1. R’&tailai' meetings shall be held . . . . . . . . . . .
.Section- 2. Then annual meeting shall be the last . . . . . .
. 'Section 3. Special meetings may be called by the
president or, on'bbplication of seven members, the presi-
dent shall call such a meeting. '
Section 4. . . . . . . . . .. members of the association in

' good standing shall: constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of bustness. .5,"

ARTICLE VI
Amendment

This constitution may be amended at any meetin
the organization by a two-thirds vote, a quorum b
present.

 
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
     
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

BY-LAWS
ARTICLE I

Duties of Officers

Section 1. It shall be the duty of the president to
side at all meetings of this club and perform all the a
usually pertaining to this ofiice.

Section 2. In the absence or disability of the ~,
dent, the vice-president shall perform all the duti
president.

Section 3. The secretary shall keep the minutes 1
proceedings and record the same. He shall give
of all meetings, notify ofbcers of election, and sen
names of newly elected members to the treasure
perform such other duties as this office may requir

Section 4. The treasurer shall receive and safely
all funds (or money) of the club, and pay out the
only on order of the president. He shall make an a
report of receipts ' and disbursements. He shall
notice to persons elected to membership.

ARTICLE II
Election of Officers

Section 1. All officers shall be elected by ball
the . . . . . . . . . .. meeting and shall assume ofbce .
close. of that meeting.

Section 2. No member shall be eligible to omce
has not been a member of the club for one year.

Section 3. No member shall hold the same office :
than twice in succession, and filling an unexpired
shall, in this regard, be considered as a term in ofbc

Section 4. Should an ofbcer resign during the
year, the president shall appoint some member 0
club to assume the ofbce temporarily, and order the
retary to send notice of a special election at the
regular meeting, when the vacancy can be filled.

ARTICLE I II
Membership

Section 1. One member must propose a candi
and this proposal must be seconded by another me !
no name being voted upon until the meeting following
at which membership was proposed. Three negative
shall exclude a candidate, and the same name may
be proposed more than once during a club year.

-Section 2. The secretary shall notify the treasure
the electiondof all new members, whereupon the trea
shall notify the successful candidates, with instruc
to send dues to the treasurer. Failure to complete
barship within thirty days, by payment of dues, ‘
forfeit membership. '

Section 3. Resignation from membership shall u
writing, and no resignation shall be accepted fro
member who is not: in good and regular standing. b
bers in arrears (dues not paid) for . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
shall be dropped. -

Section 4. On a two-thirds vote of members pre
at any meeting, a member may be suspended for. . ..
for disoi‘derly conduct or gross misdemeanor.

Ass, ARTICLE IV
Mi.
Dues .
Section 1. The dues shall be $ . . . . . . payable... .. .

Section 2. When an election to membership t
place within two months of the expiration of a ti
year, the dues shall be credited to the following year

ARTICLE V
Committees

Section 1. At the regular meeting next previou
the annual meeting, the president shall appoint the
lowing committees to report at the annual meetin I

’I

S

   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
      
    
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
   
   
 
  
     
  
    
 
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

inating committ'ee to present a
of candidates for election to
e for the following year; an
iting committee to report on the
ectness of the treasurer’s ac-

ection 2. The president shall
empowered to appoint such
ial committees as he deems
ful at any time, or, on the
ority vote of the members at
ieeting, he shall appoint com-
ees as they direct.

ARTICLE VI
Amendment

hese by-laws may be amended

any meeting by a two-thirds

, a quorum being present
ARTICLE VII

Parliamentary Authority

by-laws of the club.

ARTICLE VIII
Suspension of By-Lau's

hese by-laws may be suspended in case of emergency
unanimous vote of all those present at a meeting at
ch a quorum is present.

  

I.

i arliamentary Procedure. A good many clubs,

11 first organized, are lacking in a knowledge
a parliamentary procedure. We have found it
th while to mimeograph and distribute the fol-
ing information:

ESHINE SCHOOL COMMUNITY CENTER

CLUB ACTIVITIES
Rules of Parliamentary Law

gani'eation—A temporary chairman presides at the
ing meeting. He directs the election of officers.

ection of Officers. Temporary chairman says: “This
is forming for the purpose of . . . . . . 
shall now elect ofiiccrs. Nominations for preSident
now in order.”

iy member may rise and say, “Mr. Chairman, I
inate John Doe for preSident.”

is nomination may, or may not, be seconded.

nother member, “Mr. Chairman, I nominate Mary
wn for president.”

re may be other nominations. Finally_a member
. “Mr. Chairman, I move that the nominations be
d.” Chairman: “You have heard the motion. Those;
vor signify by saying ‘Aye’; those opposed, ‘No.
‘Ayes’ have it. We will now proceed to ballot for
ice of president.”

airman appoints assistants to distribute paper and
Is. The names of candidates have been written on
board. Each member votes for one candidate.
rman appoints two or more tellers to count votes.
is done. The new president is announced and he
the chair. He gives a short speech of thanks and
proceeds with the election of the other officers, fol-
g in the same manner as the chairman.

The Constitution

e president should now appoint a committee to draw
constitution for the club. The following pomts
d be covered:

'ame of club
‘0 bject
Membership *

l

   

"It is believed that club programs
ought to represent the true interests
of the members more fully than they
do; that they should have more worth-
ts_ while content, be built around spon-
taneous activity and inquiry inter-
ests' and lead to some vital and im-
portant results in the lives of the
members. Obviously, such values can
be attained only if members partici-
pate actively by initiating proiects and
carrying them through."——S.R.Slav-
son in Creative Group Education.

obert’s Rules of Order shall be the parliamentary
ority on all matters not covered by the constitution

DEVELOPING CLUBS IN COMMUNITY CENTERS 353

4. Ofiicers, their terms of ofiice,
manner of election

5. Committees. Program commit-
tee—Good and Welfare, etc.
,6. Time and place of meetings
7. How constitution can be amended
By-laws should provide for the
following: (1) Number composing
a quorum; (2) Rights and duties
of members; (3) Disciplining of
members; (4) Fees and dues; (5)
Authority for settling diSputes:
(6) Order of business.

Order of Business

The order in which different mat-

ters are brought before the club is

given this title, “Order of Busi—
The schedule might be as follows:

. Roll Call

. Reading of minutes of preceding meeting
Receipt of bills and communications
Report of standing committees
Report of special committees
. Unfinished business
New business
Program (social)
Critics’ report
10. Adjournment

Although it is not necessary for a club to adept a
regular order of business, experience has proved that the
following of regular business procedure is a saver of time
and effort. The presiding ofiicer may suggest that the
regular order of business be suspended, if there is any
good reason for so doing, and if nobody objects he may
make the desired change in order. If there is any objec-
tion he puts the matter to a vote for decision. The rea-
son for wanting to change order might be absence of
persons who are interested in certain business, or the

fact that few are present when-an important matter is
due for discusSion, or some Similar reason.

Addressing the Club

The president directs the discipline of the meeting. No
one is permitted to speak without hrst addressing the
chair (the president) and being recognized. Thus, if a
member wishes to say anything, he must first stand and _
then say, “Mr. President.” Thén he should wait until
the president recognizes his desire to speak, calling his
name, “Mr. Brown.” The speaker then may proceed.

If he wishes to bring a matter before the club for its
consideration, he would say: “Mr. President, I move
that the club send a delegate to City Hall.” This is
called “making a motion.”

A motion must be seconded before it can be given con—
sideration. A member seconds a motion by standing and
saying, “I second the motion.”

President: “It has been regularly moved and seconded
that ‘so .and so said . . . . . . . . . . . . . .” He now continues:
“Any remarks ?” Members may now get up in turn, as
recognized by the president, and speak for, or against,
the motion. When the discussion is completed, the presi-
dent says: “Are you ready for the question ?” (which
means, are you ready to vote on the motion?) The
president then repeats the motion, as follows: “It has
been regularly moved and seconded that . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
All in favor of the motion signify by saying Aye; those
opposed, No. The ayes (or the nays) have it.”

Voting may be done by standing, by voice, or by ballot.

Report of a meeting is called the minutes. These must
be carefully written up.

Chairmen of all committees are expected to report
what their committees have done since the last meeting.

When the business of the meeting is over and it is time
to close, any member may say, “Mr. President, I move
that we adjourn.” This must be seconded. The vote is
put to the club and the president announces the deciSion.

PWwaewNH

354 DEVELOPING CLUBS IN COMMUNITY CENTERS

The Inter-Club Council. In organizing the clubs
within a community center, we in Newark have
found it valuable to have an Inter-Club Council
composed of representatives from various clubs
in the center. In order for a new club to become
a member of the community center, it must sub-
mit an application form to the Inter-Club Council,
where it is turned over to the committee on mem-
bership. It is then the responsibility of this com-
mittee to study the purpose of the club and de-
termine after a four-week probationary period
Whether the club is worthy of membership. The
final decision is arrived at in consultation with
the community center director and his staff. If
the decision is a favorable one, then the club is
given a charter. When once given a charter, the
club must wait three months before it can present
to the Council a request for the use of the audi-
torium or some other facility to promote an ac—
tivity for financial gain. This procedure has a
tendency to increase the feeling of responsibility
toward the community center and the other clubs
in it. Furthermore, it promotes a desire to com-
pare favorably in organization and program with
the rest of the clubs. The charter is good as long
as the objectives of this club as set forth in their
application for membership are being fulfilled.

Keep a watch for clubs which have outworn
their usefulness. In other words, when clubs
cease to function it is far better to see that they
voluntarily disband, or for the Council to ask
them to disband. A few dead or dying clubs are
very detrimental to the entire club program.

Admission of every club wishing to join is not
necessary. Particularly is this true where facilities
and leadership are inadequate. It is better to
admit a smaller number of clubs and do a con-
s‘tructive piece of work with them than take in
all and then spread leadership too thin for effec-
tive supervision.

The Inter—Club Council serves the important
function of integrating and articulating all the
unit clubs; of establishing the feeling on the part
of these groups that they are a definite and in-
tegral part of the whole organization, the com-
munity center. This is most essential because the
tendency on the part of the small unit club is to
become so wrapped up in its own group that our
task is to keep their loyalty divided proportion-

ately. A good way of getting these small unit -

clubs to maintain a loyalty toward the community
center is to permit the Council to participate in
the development of the program and have the In-

*terests and abilities of the membership. I

  
 
  
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 

ter—Club Council conduct a great many a
where all clubs have an opportunity to pa
pate. It is only through this democratic spirit
all interests can best be served.

The Inter—Club Council can sponsor such a
ties as social dances, parties, father and son
quets, mother and daughter banquets, an '
club banquet, all kinds of tournaments and
rallies. The club rally offers one of the
mediums for creating the spirit you
Through the various club representatives eacl
is responsible for its share in the evening’
gram. In this way the spirit of coope
teaches each club to appreciate what the
clubs have to contribute toward the success u
center. At these club rallies awards are ma
inspirational talks given. The program is s
which both the administration and the club
bership participate. Often the clubs, thro
community center fund, purchase a radio
make their presentation at one of these club r
It is this Inter-Club Council which acts a
direct link between the clubs and the profess
staff and thereby gives democratic represent
in developing the program.

The Program

Club procedUre may be classified as fol]
First—clubs that function according to an .
determined plan and program. Secondwclubs a
receive a minimum of guidance and are fairly "
to plan as they wish. Third—interest groups
specialize in some one activity, as mentione
the second type of club under Organization.
is a fOUrth classification—clubs encourage
build on original lines, which are receiving
kind of guidance that leads to creative g
effort.

There is no question that there are values '
of these groups. However, the fourth type 1
tioned is undoubtedly the progressive educat
procedure and the one which contains gr
value for the participants. In a club of this
the program is experimental and suited to th

3
6

major interest at any particular time is given

consideration. Progress is made by guidance ‘
upon the foundation of the individual de 
rather than by the imposition of arbitrary i"
that have to be achieved in specific ways. I

Club programs should be essentially e t.
tional. By this is not meant education in ter '
formal discipline. We have, through the us (.3

' reational activities, far greater opportunities
I .11 those who are dealing with the formal pro-
,ses of education, to put into operation the prin-
 les of progressive education. Individuals in a
 learn by doing. Programs, of necessity, are
..' ely made up of activities. Rarely is there ab-
‘m ct material of any sort. In club work the
 mbership is permitted to assume real respon—
 lity and to function vitally, thereby develop-
‘ 'v_ good group standards.

here is, however, serious danger in haphazard
gramming. This is often the reason for so
‘ y clubs disintegrating. A program committee
U ch sits in with the leader and plans an elastic
rrgram is one of the best safeguards against dis-
tegration. Plan a weekly highlight for three or
ix‘ months ahead, or as far in advance as you
ish. Here are some highlights we have found

uccessful :

December l—Business meeting
“ 8—Checker tournament
15—Christmas party preparation
“ 22—Christmas party
. “ 29—Inter-club debate

1

   
 

ti

January S—Business meeting

“ 12—Camelot tournament
19—Forum
“ 26—Inter-club indoor track meet

l u

“ 9—Interclub debate

H

I
N  February 2—Business meeting

ll—Trip to industrial plant
‘ “ l6——Forum
. “ 23—VVashington Birthday program

‘ March 2—Business meeting
“ 9—Forum

l6—Dress rehearsal of play
23—Dramatic production

l
‘i “ 26—Hike
l

U

“ 30—April Fool party

April 6—Busincss meeting
_ “ 8—Trip to industrial plant
i " “ l3—Oratorical contest (Intra-club)
.i “ 20—Forum
' “ 23—Hike
l “ 27-——Oratorical contest (Inter-club)

May 4—Business meeting
“ 6—Trip to industrial plant
“ ll—Intra-club debate
“ lZ—Track and field meet
“ lS—Forum
“ 21—Hike
“ 25—Inter-club debate

| June l—Business meeting
“ 3—Trip to industrial plant
8—Pit tournament
“ 11—Hike
‘ “ lS—Forum
‘ “ lé—Baseball field day
“ 22—Badge award
“ 23—Paddle tennis tournament
“ 29—Annual meeting

1 H

i SWimming at the YMCA and Morris Avenue pools

l'

J!

DEVELOPING CLUBS IN COMMUNITY CENTERS 355

Put the planning and arranging of these events
in the hands of the committee. Make them feel
the program is their responsibility.

Every effective means of arousing interest
should be brought into the picture. Competition
looms large in the interest of all boys—both com-
petition within the club and competition by the
club or its representatives with other clubs. Some-
times this is organized around single events, or in
brief tournaments or a series of competitions in
which scores are kept throughout an entire sea-
son, and in a great variety of activities. There is,
however, the ever—present danger that the compet-
itive motive will set up false standards and make
winning the goal. This must be guarded against.

Another great danger is monotony as a result of
a routinized program where lack of imagination
allows..an activity, because it .has proven interest-
ing or is still interesting to part of the member-
ship, to become “stale” with a large number of
boys. If this is the case and the leader s‘enses dis—
integration, it is wiser to disband the club on the
leader’s own initiative before it dies from stagna~
tion. In this way you still have the opportunity
of taking a few interested members and using
them as a nucleus for a new club or combining
them with some other club. Once a club disin-
tegrates the possibility of this membership re-
maining “club conscious” is slight.

Although we mention clubs centering around a
specific interest as one of the principal type clubs,
nevertheless it is far more desirable to guide
young people into groups with a well-rounded
program. The reason for this is that most special
activity groups are conducted without regard to
the needs of other clubs in the community center
or to the degree of development of their partici-
pants. Boys and girls are permitted to spend all
their free time in a pottery class or gymnasium.
Their interests remain limited and they miss all
of the social values of group experiences.

Life does not consist of any one activity allone ;
special activities are essential. In fact, it is hard
to imagine a community center without them, but
they must not be permitted to assume a dispropor-
tionate place in our work and they must be con—
ducted with regard to the needs of the individuals
involved and related to club plans. Only in such
an arrangement can they serve to enlarge the field
for individual expression and provide additional
opportunities for achievement.

° Leaders, in order to be successful, must be re-

sourceful. Here is a list of activities which may
(Continued on page 392)

URE ENOUGH, straight through
S the swinging doors into the
ward comes a pink uni-
formed lady, with her big green
cart loaded with toys. f‘Here
comes the play lady l”-\Vel-',
coming words! '
From bed to bed goes the
cart. 'A few words pass ,be- I
tween uplay lady and child.
A toy, a game, a puzzle, or
perhaps a box of paints or
a mat to weave something
is chosen from the'cart; and
the child gets busy. The
play lady moves on to' a
crying baby. She holds up
a string ,of bright wooden
'beads. The baby eyes the
beads and forgets to cry.
He reaches for them, and
a sudden quiet comeslover the

W.._uwxf_-M'er§ ._, .___ ‘ 1 .
a.

_The cart goes onto a child
lying flat on her back a frame. What can this
child do? Only her hands are free, and time drags
on. There is much she can do—read stories, look
'at pictures, cutout deSig‘ns, color, play with clay

or with a doll that has a wardrobe which can be-

ghanged. The girl knows the play lady. She looks
forwardoto her visit. . '
‘ EVery month the play. lady has -a project. This
month it.happens to be Hawaii. The handwork
that is available will include making leis, coloring
designs on cloth, and dressing dolls in Hawaiian
fashion. There will be pictures and stories about
Hawaii, and possibly a few Hawaiian records on
the victrola. Thus, project material is on hand,
but it is not necessary for a child to confine his
_w'o'rk to. it. If someone wants to make~a book
about animals he is free to do so. The play lady
makes an effort to supply the
necessary equipment to follow
throughwith the original idea.
The morning'program is of -a
manual mature when fundamen-
tal skills are practiced in sim-
ple handwork requiring the use
of' tools, and following direc-

356

" Here Comes the Play Lady!

«By FELICE PIATKOWSKI

Special Education Instructor
University Hospital
Ann Arbor, Michigan

 

And here comes the cart—-—always
a welcome announcement of a
ward. . visit to the wards by the play lady!

winter there is a short fresh air period before
.is taken into the playroom for a program sim

In the April issue of RECREATION
appeared an article telling of the
work of the Special Education De-
partment of the University of Mich-
igan Hospital which aroused much
interest. We offer a further word
about this service to handicapped
children. so rich in human values.

   
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
   

tions. The afternoon progra
more recreational. Games
played. There are rhythms
the drums and victrola. Pup
perform. A movable libr
makes a tour. Stories
read over the ampl
Specimens from nature
exhibited and talked a
Just recently a baby
made a visit to each a
in bed. It was a bottle
lamb, nursed by eager h

The job of being a

lady is a vital one. Its c
purpose is to make con
with the child, to find
child's interests. and to -

ply the materials neede

see the interests grow.
child is: b r o_ ugh t int
strange hospital environm
away from the folks he kno
He must adapt himself to 1
people. new ways of doing things, and so
times there are difficulties. When the play 1
comes there is something to do, something
think about. That helps. .
If a child is well enough to go out of doors
is sent up to the roof. He may be in bed, i '
wheel—chair, or walking about on crutches. On
roof in the summer time he stays outside. In

 

to the one on the wards. However, on the r
there is much more group work, singing, I)
playing, and games.

So——“here comes the play lady!”

The Association takes this opportunity to
attention to the bulletin service for workers i
stitutions which it issues
month with the exceptio
August. The bulletins, V
may be secured for $1.00
year, contain suggestions
games, social recreation, m

drama and activities of va
kinds,

4

   
   
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
 

YOU SHOULD sit in a Roch-
ester, New York, elemen-
tary school for one week,
would discover that there
‘ two days when you would
' more than the normal de—
: e for the pupils to want to
rry the hands of the clock
vard the close of school!
1656 days are known as
‘ lub days,” and they are, in
eality, good fun days.

Club days come once a
reek for boys and once for
:irls. The clubs for the boys
nd girls are conducted in exactly the same man-
[ er. The only difference is in the sex of the leader
,nd the possible addition of giggling in the girls’
lubs!

The history of the clubs as a government pro-
dct is a recent one. In January 1936, the Na-
i nal Youth Administration allotted money to be

(1 as the district administrator saw lit. After

tsultation with Rochester educators it was de-
iled to reopen the girls’ and boys’ clubs in the
-I mentary schools. These clubs had been or-
g}, ized in 1913 by Herman Norton, Director of
lysical Education for Rochester schools. They
tinued under the leadership of college men
til 1932, when a drastic cut in the Board of
ucation budget brought about their elimination.
l .lYoung men and women
.f leadership ability were

l



By RONALD GEORGE BARRES

Senior Recreational Leader

"During the school term these clubs
supplement the work of the classroom
in attempting to teach the child the
fundamentals of sportsmanshipl group
discipline and parliamentary proce-
dure through a program of recreation.
thereby making the retention of these
principles thorough because the learn-
ing of them has been so enioyable."
-—Cbatles A. Leonard, Sn, NYA
Supervisor of After School Recrea-
tionI Board of Education, Rochester.

There is action aplenty in this circle relay—
.l one of the events of girls' field day program!

"Clubbing"; in , Rochester Schools

carefully chosen for positions
of leaders. About three weeks
were devoted to lectures and.
practical demonstrations. Child
psychology, game techniques,
parliamentary procedure, pro-
gram planning, iirst aid and
subjects of like nature were
taught. This training was con—
tinued for many months even
after the leaders were direct-
ing clubs.

Armed with this knowledge,
leaders began their work in
the Rochester schools. Two
types of clubs were designated—junior and sen-
ior. Pupils in the fifth and sixth grade were in
the junior group; seventh and eighth grade pupils"
comprised the senior club. The first term was so
successful that the next semester found almost
every principal in Rochester clamoring for club
leaders. The popularity of these clubs with the
pupils and the many benelits obvious to the edu-1
cators have'combined to make these clubs once
more a feature in Rochester education. Charles
A. "Leonard was appointed supervisor of the rec-‘
reation clubs, with Leonard Gordon and Anthony
Chiaffry as district supervisors. It is due largely
to their efforts that the clubs are functioning so
well.

The Procedure

A leader is appointed to

a school, and before he sees

 

358 “CLUBBING” IN ROCHESTER SCHOOLS

the group he is to work
with he confers with the
principal, who gives him
a list of the pupils whose
marks entitle them to at- .
tend the club, together
with a long waiting list
of potential members.
Only forty children may
attend the club. The-
principal tells the leader
the types of homes the
children come from and
other facts which will
give the leader knowl-
edge of the mental and I _
environmental influences a, - ,

surrounding his group.  -- t     
Courtesy WPA Georgia

 

At the" close of school
the principal introduces
the leader to his group. At this first meeting the
leader proceeds to explain the aims of the club,
the business meeting, the activities to be enjoyed

For the boys of the Rochester school cl
the activities are many and varied in t

during the term: sueh as the gameS, educational reational. At the conclusion of the session s
tours and parties, and the duties of the ochers leader announces the number of points ea
they are to elect—the president, vice-president, team has gained from the day’s competit-

secretary and captains. Then come the questions,
so rapidly as to swamp the leader. The question

play, and the secretary records it neatly in u

. . notebook.

of dues 15 sure to arlse. The leader assures them
no money for any purpose will be collected. This That is the usual winter program for b
causes many a sign of relief if the school is in a boys and girls. During spring and fall the cl
poor section. The pupils then proceed to elect go outside and play. Sometimes the lea
their officers, and when this is over it is usually takes his group on an educational tour. Bef
time to go heme- holidays parties are given in the majority

At the next meeting the club is generally in full clubs.
swing, and the captains will have chosen their
teams_ The president Opens the meeting, the sec_ Before the end of the summer term, both be
retary calls the roll and records the minutes, while and girls, CIUbS have made Preparations for th
the vice—president sits in the front of the room field days: held on different Saturdays- The e
and appears important! The captains sit in the- tests for the girls are of a game type, while i
front seats, while each team tries its best to main- boys engage in track and field events. There
tain the strictest order, for points are given each always an excellent attendance, and it takes ma
man on the best behaved team. hours to pick the winning school. The individ
. At the conclusion of the meet- winners receive certificates
mg the group Proceeds t0 the their efforts while the sch i
gymnasium and lines up in team "it is eXtremelY gratifying espe' with the largest number of poi

order. Here the captains have cially in indigent neighborhoods.
full authority and may eject from to see how these after school

. . _ I .
a game any unruly member. The 32::ie:°;n:::gr:::tlelriui: :6" At the conclus10n of the te
leader announces the first game ' “ y

. well be classed as delinquency the nllmber of pOintS 0f 6
to be played, and the program 15 Prevennon." __ Leonard (30,. team IS added, and each niem

under way. Two types of games don, NYA Dish-id Supervisor, on the winning team is give
are played—competitive and rec- Board of Education, Rochester. large handsome certificate.

is declared the winner.

 
  

i e Square Dance—

HOSE OF US who are particularly interested in
social recreation are constantly on the look-
out for new material with which to work. The
are dance, though by no means a new activity,
leing revived everywhere.

Unless a dance is sociable it cannot live long,
d unless it can promote the spirit of play it
ill soon weary its devotees. It is just here
l at dances requiring eight or more people as
1e unit for their performance make their ap~
al. More persons are thrown together, the
'rit of grown—up play is irresistible, and there
: a wider scope and a stronger demand for
ill. Many people who have danced both

i

  
 
  
   
   
 
  
     
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
   
 
   

re fun in one square dance than there is in
evening of round or ballroom dancing.
n the dance descriptions given in this article
- reader may find an arrangement of move-
nts which he_knows under another name,
he may find a familiar name of a movement
ich is described and executed differently.
A nce names and their movements vary with
w alities. This is as true in America as it is
 Europe. One reason for this is that people,
'ving from one section of a country to an-
her, change the Original form of a dance to
uit their particular needs. The dances pre-
,n ted here offer examples of this change in
'ginal form. They are partly related to the
' d-timc “Lancers,” characterized by dignified
[domenading and well-timed movements, but
Qe chief characteristics of these dances are the

. gorous swinging and informal movements.

       
 
 
 
   
 
 

The Caller
The figure caller should

i ve a well-rounded knowl-
eiige of music and dance
construction. In most cases
it will be necessary for the
teacher to do the calling.

 

und” and square dances say that there is

Mr. Harrison states that he is deeply

indebted to Miss
head of the Women's Physical Education
Department. University
and to "Doc" Reed, "caller" of old time
square dancesl for their assistance.

Elizabeth Rearick,

A Social Recreation Aid

By G. HARRY HARRISON, JR., B.S.
University ot‘ Pittsburgh

Square dances are Fast coming to be
among the most important of pres-
ent-day social recreational activities

He should have a clear voice, pitched properly
for the acoustics of the room, which will en-
able him to complete the call just before the
strain of music begins to which the movement
belongs. A good caller, if instructing a class, will
see to it that the more experienced dancers are
placed as the head, or lead, couples, and others
as side couples, so that the less experienced
dancers will have an opportunity to 0bserve.the
movements of the head couple before they are
called upon to execute the same movements. The
caller should stand near the orchestra in order to
regulate the time of the music. The ability, ex—
perience and courtesy of the caller are 'vital fac-
tors in the control of the dance.

Formation and Starting Position

The square dance, as its name implies, is
danced in the form of a square. Four couples
compose one square or set. The first couple
stands with backs to the orchestra. All gentle-
men stand to the left of their partners. The
second couple stands to the right .of the first
couple and faces the fourth couple directly
across the set. The third couple faces the first
' couple and is termed the
“foot” couple. It is important.
for each couple to remember
its position in the set as the
calls follow in a very definite
order and directions are
based 011 the position.

of Pittsburgh.

359

360 THE SQUARE DANCE—A SOCIAL RECREATION AID

Starting Position

NOTE: A number of diagrams are used.
In all of them the circle represents lady; D
the square, gentleman. 2

“Corner Left, Partner Right, Grand
Change Eight”

This call occurs more than any

other in these dances. Most people

know it as “Allemande Left.” It is the movement
made when each gentleman turns to the lady on
his left, who also faces, and gives her his left
hand. They turn once around counter clockwise
and face their own partners. Each gentleman
gives his partner his right hand and drops the
hand of the lady on the left, known as “corner
lady.” Grand right and left begins at this point.
This is a movement in which a circle of gentle-
, men move in a. counter clockwise direction weav—
ing in and out, while a circle of ladies move in a
, clockwise direction, also weaving in and out. As
this. process of weaving in and out proceeds, a
dancer’s right hand is passed to his partner, his
left to the next dancer, right to the next, and so
on around the circle until all are back-in their
original positions. The caller waits one or two
measures oflmusic for a set who may be tardy,
then starts to call the figures for the main part of
the. dance.

Appropriate Music

Much can be said about the proper music for
these dances. The tempo of the music should be
kept lively at about 120 metronome. The 2-4 and
6-8 rhythms seem to be the best. Some of the
songs which carry these rhythms are: “Red River
Valley,” “Red Wing,” “They Cut Down the Old
Pine Tree," “Golden Slippers,”" and “Sailing,
Sailing.” They can be found in many of the C ow-
boy Song Books and Old Time Melodies.

“Swing Andy Gump”

Music, 2-4 tempo
The Calls

‘7‘ I l l I
Jump m the air and come right down, swmg
your honey “round and ’ronnd.”

All jump up in the air, and when they come
down each takes his own partner in the social
dance position and turns around in place twice.

“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight the
whole way ’ronnd.”

Gentlemen turns the lady on his left with the

_ join hands and walk once around to the left.

    
    
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
     
     
  

left hand, continues back to his pa
ner with the right hand and gra
0 right and left as previously describ
or “First lady out to the right and STE
0 ‘ Andy Camp.”

First lady leaves her place, goes
the second gentleman and swings
around twice, using the social da
position.

“Now that man with the great big hump.”

First lady repeats the above swing with
third gentleman.

“Now the one with the turned up toes.”

First lady swings the fourth gentleman
above.

“Now swing your own with the great big nos

First lady returns to her original position
everyone swings his own partner.

“Corner left, partner right, grand change ei

the whole way ’ronnd.”
This has been described.

How to Swing Your Partner

There are several ways of swinging your pa
ner. Here are two popular methods.

The social dance position swing. Gentleman fa
partner, holding her right hand in his left, w
his right arm around her waist. His partner’s I
hand is resting on his shoulder. Turn arou
twice in the clockwise direction with four steps
each turn.

The buzz step ’rurn. Dancers take ordinary dan
position, but stand right shoulders together wi
outside edges of right feet together. In this po
tion they swing. around in place without movi
the right foot, which is used to pivot. The 1e
foot is placed forward and the accent occurs a
the right-foot. This is a very vigorous swing.

“Single File, Indian Style”
Music—“Red Wing”——2-4 tem
“First couple out to the right and circle four.”
Head couple walks over to station number. tw

“Open up and take two more.”
Head gentleman releases hands with seco
lady, and admits the third couple to the circ
while continuing to circle to the left.
“Hurry up and don’t be late, open up and rt
army eight.”
Head gentleman releases hands with the thi
lady and admits fourth couple.

  
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 

l

| low we’ll walk the Indian style.”

All drop hands from circle, left face, and place
ds on theshoulders of the person in front.
11 place hands over their mouths and imitate
._ ian war cry, walking clockwise.

ow we’ll- swing once in a while.”

Each lady turns, faces gentleman behind, and
‘ . ings with him twice around.

. ow we’ll wth the Indian style.”

Lady drops in line behind the gentleman and
_\ lks around half.

‘ ow swing once in a while.”

T Lady again turns and swings with the gentle-
l n behind.

l ow walk the Indian style.”

Lady drops in line behind the gentleman. All
1k half way around again.

ow we’ll swing the sqnaw.”

Lady swings with the gentleman behind.

Now we’ll walls the Indian style.”

'Ladies drop in behind gentlemen and walk half
1y around.

z'erybody swing his Minnie ‘Ha’ ‘Ha’ ‘Ha’
‘Ha’.”

aving swung with all of the gentlemen in the
i with these calls, each lady swings with'her own
‘tner.

orner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’ronnd.”

See description of this figure previously given.
(Repeat all three more times. Second couple,
rd couple and fourth couple out to the right and
cle four, etc.)

“Cast Off Six”
Music, 2-4 tempo

nip in the air and come right down, and swing
'onr honey round and round.”
ee description of this figure in “Andy Gump.”

orne-r left and partner right, grand change eight
he whole way ’ronnd.”

ee description of this call in “Andy Gump.”
cad couple ’ronnd the outside set.” _
ead couple join inside hands and walk arOUnd

' outside of the set to the right, 'and back to
e.

J!)

ring in the center like old St. Nic .
Vhen head couple reach home again, they
'ng around in place. All others in the set re-
'n inactive.

' wn through the center and cast of six.”
eadcouple walk through the set between the
-‘ tleman and lady of the third couple. The gen—

THE SQUARE DANCE—A SOCIAL RECREATION AID 361

tleman passes to the left and back to place, lady to
right. See diagram.
“Swing in the center as you did before.”

Head couple swing twice around. Others re-
main inactive.

“Down through the center and cast of four.”

Head couple walk forward through the set as
above, except in this figure the gentleman walks
between the fourth man- and third lady back to
place, while the head lady walks to the right be-
tween the second lady and third gentleman and
back home. See diagram.

“Swing in the center, and cast 0 If two.”

Head couple swing at home when they meet,
then walk forward and divide again, the head
gentleman walking to the left between the mem-
bers of the fourth couple, while the head lady
walks to the right between the members of the
second couple, and on home. See diagram.

“And all the rest know what to do.”

Everybody swings his own partner.

“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’ronnd.”

See description of this call in “Andy Gump.”

\Vhen all have completed the last figure, the
caller calls the second couple around the outside
set, etc., and all the figures as above. The third
and fourth couple repeat .the figures in their
proper order.

NOTE: In order to avoid confusion, explain that the
couple facing the “lead” couple is the place to cast off
six. See diagram.

A=“Cas’r off six"
1 B="Cas’r off four"
L‘="Cas’r off ’rwo"

": 'R
I] l
c Q'D/I' |"\ Ac
7:6 l: "‘ \Q"+
‘ I \
Bn\_/ I i \Q-“ G
. I '-
D) “0
$/ 3 \a
A

“The Girl I Left Behind Me”

Music by same name, 2-4 tempo

“Jump in the air and then come down. Swing
your honey ’ronnd and ’ronn-d.”
See description of this call under “Andy
Gump.”
“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’ronnd.”
See description of this call under “Andy

Gump.”

 

362 THE SQUARE DANCE

“First gent out to the right and swing your little

mommy.”
Head gentlemen walks over to the second lady

and swings her twice around.

“Swing that girl, that pretty little girl, that girl
you left behind you.”
Head gentleman swings his. own partner at her
station.

“Swing your cousin Fannie.”
Head gentleman walks over to the third'lady

and swings her.

“Swing that girl, that pretty little girl, that girl
you left behind you.”
Head gentleman returns to the second lady and
swings her twice.

“ wing your little'niammy.”
Head gentleman walks across to the fourth lady
and swings her.
“Seeing that girl, that pretty little girl, that girl you
left behind you.”
Head gentleman returns to the third lady and
swings her.

“H ome you go, and everybody swings his own.”
Head gentleman returns home and everybody
swings his own partner.

“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’ronnd.”

See description of this call under “Andy Gump.”.

Second, third and fourth gentlemen are called
out to the right and each swings his “little
mammy” in proper order.

Gentlemen always swing the next lady to the

right and then come back to swing the one be—
hind them.

After the dancers have become familiar with
this form, it can be made much more interesting
by having the caller call out the first gentleman to
the right and swing all the ladies, as described,
and after he returns and “corner left, partner
right” has been executed, call the second two gen-
tlemen out to the right to swing their little mam-
mies. This puts two men into the action. Execute

“corner left” then call the first three gentlemen -

out, to the right and swing their little mammies,
etc. Again execute “corner left” and call out all
four gentlemen to the right to swing their little

mammies, as called above. Call corner left and ‘

partner right and the dance is finished. Much
more fun is derived from this method, and while
it is a bit more complicated, the action reaches
more people at the same time.

A SOCIAL RECREATION AID

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
   

“Lady ’Round the Lady”
Music, 2-4 ter

“Jump in the air and come right down. Swi
you honey ’round and ’round.”

All jump in the air, come down, and sw'
partners around. '

“Corner left, partner right, grand change cf
the whole way ’ronnd.”_

Gentlemen face the lady on their left, give
hands to each other and turn around once. I
partner right hand and left to next, etc.

“First couple out to the right and swing in
rear.”

First couple goes out to the right and be
the second couple. In doing so, the first gei
man goes to the left around behind the sec
couple and meets his partner, while head 1
goes to the right and behind to the rear of sec
couple. They swing there.

“Up in the front and swing the dear.”

After swinging in the rear, the gentleman c
tinues to the left on around to the front of s
ond couple while the head lady continues
around to the right and swings her partner
front.

“Lady ’round the lady and the gent'around .
gent.”

The head couple passes through between I
members of the second couple, the head lady pa
ing to the left around the second lady, while
head gentleman passes to the right around I
second gentleman. Both walk back to place
front of the second couple.

“Gent around the lady and the lady around '
gent.”

Reverse the order, gentlemen passing arou
the second lady while the head lady passes arou
the second gentleman and back in front.

“Circle four, right and left and on the next, a
swing in the rear.”

First and second couple circle four hands h
way around and then the first couple pass un
an arch made by the second two. After passi
through the arch, they then walk around to I '
rear of the third couple, the gentleman to the l ‘
and lady to right. They meet in the rear of x
third couple and swing there.

“Up in the front and swing the dear.”
Repeat this call, as above, at third station.

 

THE SQUARE DANCE

  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
 

 ady around the lady and the gent around the

'i gent.”

l 'Repeat, as above, at third station.

‘ ‘ ent around the lady and the lady around the

. gent.”

I ' epeat, as above, at third station.

' cle four, right and left and on to the next

- nd swing in the rear.”

1' epeat, as above, at third station then go to

1rth station.

I p in front and swing the dear. Lady ’round

. ad y, gent around the gent.”

I 0th of these calls are repeated at station
mber four.

ent 'ronnd lady, lady ’ronnd gent. Circle four,

ight and left: back home.”

' epeat these calls as above and the first couple

re back home.

Corner left, partner right, grand change eight

t the whole way ’ronnd.”

I This call is described above.

Second couple now takes the lead and visits all

er- stations, followed by couple number three

' 1 four.

i irst couple lead out to the second couple and
‘u 16 once around.

' pen n p and take two more.”

‘ s first four progress to third couple, the head
tleman and second lady drop hands and admit
third two to the circle.

rry up and don’t be late, open up and run
r way eight.”

_ ontinue to circle to the left, then open up and
i it the fourth couple to the circle between the
gentleman and second lady.

ad conple free their wrists and start that
onble grapevine twist.”

ead couple release their inside hands. The
tleman walks forward and to the left, passing
er an arch made by the fourth couple. He
' tinues around to the left and back to place.
‘ fourth lady turns under her own left arm and
‘t'qlds in place. On the other side of the circle,

'1 |

    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 

“The Double 'Grapevine Twist”

Music, 2-4 tempo
mp in the air and then come down. Swing
our honey ’romzd and ’round.”
ee description under “Andy Gump.”
o-rner left, partner right, grand change eight
he whole way ’round.”
ee description under “Andy Gump.”

' st couple out to the right and circle four.”

A SOCIAL RECREATION AID 363

the head lady is doing the exact opposite of the
head gentleman, going to her right and under an
arch made by the second couple and back to place,
as the second gentleman turnsunder his own right
arm and stands in place. Without stopping the
head couple repeat the above figure each advanc-
ing one position toward the foot of the set, the
head gentleman passing under the arch‘of the
fourth gentleman and third lady and leading the
second lady through behind him back to place.
The head lady passes under an arch made by the
second lady and third gentleman and back to
place. The second lady turns under her own right
arm and stands in place while the fourth gentle-
man turns under his own left arm and stands in
place. Continuing the “twist,” the head couple_
pass together under an arch made by the third
couple. The head gentleman leads all those on
his side of the circle to the left and back to place
while the head lady leads her group to the right
and back home. The third couple turn toward
each other to unwind themselves, and stand in
place.

The important point to remember in executing .
this figure is that all except the head couple re-
main holding hands while this figure is being
danced. The only break being between the head
two.

In this diagram
the head couple

Z
is shown leading D 0
double grape- 04'
vine twist. . Cl 0
3

“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight
the whole way ’ronnd.”
See description under “Andy Gump.”
Second, third and fourth couples in turn exe-
cute all of the calls given.

“Two Lone Gents Do See Do”
Music, 2-4 tempo
“Jump in the air, come right down and swing
your honey ’ronnd and ’ronnd.”
See description of this call under “Andy Gump.”
“Corner left, partner right, grand change eight

the whole way ’ronnd.”
See description of this call under “Andy Gump.”

(Continued on page 393)

Recreation in Mill Villages

VILLAGE in North Carolina is a little town live
X miles from the county seat. The main in-

dustry is textile. There are other small busi-
nesses in the town, but there is a marked distinc-
tion between the “uptown” people and the mill
workers, and the mill people are woefully lacking
in recreational opportunities.

Into this community there went, last January,
a recreation supervisor from “7 PA. The program
began in an ice house transformed into a com-
munity center. Ice house pipes were taken out and
sawed apart. W'elded back together, they became
see-saw and swing frames. That was the beginning
of the playground.

Inside the center, games,'crafts and social rec-
reation were conducted. A small library had its
beginning in the center when fifty books were
borrowed from the State Library Commission and
County Library. Now the library owns two hun—
dred books and has a rental shelf with new books
which pay for themselves and also for repairing
older volumes.

The ice house has been outgrown and the local
Recreation Council is buying additional equip-
ment for the playground.

Xville, in the same county, has the distinction
of being the oldest mill. village in the district. It
is a small village made up entirely of_ mill work-
ers. During the- past year the mill has been closed
and most of the people'are jobless. Into this com-
munity, too, there went a WPA recreation worker.

The only location available for a recreation cen-
ter was one room of an old 'store building, but
here the dauntless \VPA worker initiated her
program. '

There was a library in the community, one of
the best in the county, built in honor of the
founder of the mill by his son. The library had
been endowed, but years later, on the failure of
the bank in charge of the trust fund, the library
was closed. Many times the rec-

- up emotions. A WPA recreational program \.

   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

this building, a place of_ recreation, a library
memory of' my father, . . . . . . . . . . . . .., for
people of Xville.”

In the library were rows and rows of
books—fiction, travel, biography, and mag
dating from 1906. The card catalog, tables, r
and lights were in good condition. The lar
upstairs was in need of repair, but it was s
for social gatherings.

The recreation worker saw the possibil
the library as a recreation center. She red
her efforts to secure the use of the buildin
finally it was opened as a “place of recreatio
the people of Xville.”

In two small villages a recreation program
been operating for fourteen months. In one
these villages, a canvass for equipment discl
swings and see-saws packed away for fourt
year and never used. In four other towns in
county, self-supporting recreation programs
being carried on. Not all of the programs
adequate, says the supervisor, but the projec
helping, and there are ten recreation workers :
ployed now where formerly there was none.

The recreation supervisor in another county
North Carolina tells of a community Where hig
emotional revivals were the only outlet for p

introduced. The response was slow at first. |
children lived in such widely scattered secti
that opportunities for social gatherings were r
They.were bashful and self—conscious about pl
ing. They had to be provided with an opportui
to do the things in which they seemed most in
ested. Following a Study of community needs
Community Club was organized. A thoroug
competent woman was secured to teach the Sun
School lesson at each meeting. This was follox
by club singing, games and stories. Families c
several miles to attend the meetings. After
regular program and social ho

reation worker tried to gain an
entrance to the building. Finally
her efforts were successful, and
to her surprise, upon entering
she was confronted with a
bronze plaque inside the door
reading: “I, . . . , . . . . . . ., give

364-

The story of what recreation has
meant to some of our southern mill
villages is an interesting one. We
present a few extracts from a

report of the Works Progress Ad-
ministration which has been re-

'sponsible for recreation proiects in

a number of these communities.

          
    

many of the members linge
to exchange quilt fashions .
recipes, and some of the ma .
zines friends had sent w

passed among the members
the club.

{Continued on page 394)

I
Q

i

5'

 
 

.tl
I

     
  

.
l.
i.
'.

l

   
  
   
 
    
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
      
    

know how to git it!”

I by a visiting sportsman.

. t seems a strange way to introduce a story of
‘ mmunity music survey and the things which
eloped from that survey, but it does have an
lication to that apparently irrelevant field. The
ic survey enabled people of the general area
Vheeling, \Vest Virginia, to verify their suspi-
s that there are musical resources -“aroun’
.” Then, too, they go a step further than the
ntain boy and are ready and willing to tell
w to git it.”

heir plan is, so simple, so flexible and useful
it might well be employed in any community
ny region where .the people want to ascertain
r musical resources and put them to work.

bit of background knowledge seems neces-
for a proper understanding of the \Vheeling
 'c survey. '.

I heeling is a city of 60,000. The city is, how:
, the geographic, economic and social center
an industrial and rural population of about
_ on people who live in twelve counties in the
'2: r Ohio valley and represent the states of
, \‘V est Virginia and Pennsylvania.

st beyond the municipal boundary of Wheel—
5 the city-owned Oglebay Park, a natural rec-
on area of 750 acres. At Oglebay Park is the
‘. uarters of Oglebay Institute, an incorporat-
rganization devoted primarily to adult educa-

I

I .

1
‘ L
l

_ t’s Thar, Effen You Know How

HAR’s Lors o’GAME aroun’ yere -— effen you

That was the classic response of a West
ginia mountain boy to a question addressed to

to

Git It”

By

JOHN W. HANDLAN
'Oglebay Park

Wheeling, West Virginia

tion. The Institute derives its financial SUpport
from four separate sources. These are member-
ship dues voluntarily paid annually by private
citizens; proceeds of an endownment fund; pri-
vate gifts, and State and Federal funds secured
through the Agricultural Extension Division of
West Virginia University. The Institute is, ac-
cordingly, under little moral or political compul—
sion to restrict its program to a city, to a county,
or to a state. Operating many of its programs
directly at Oglebay Park, it also sends its staff of
specialists into the outlying cities, towns'and rural
communities of the entire Wheeling area.

The story of Oglebay Park and of Oglebay
Institute is interesting enough, but is long———and
this is the story of the Institute’s music survey
and some of the results of that survey!

Music Always a Part of the Program

From the inception, in 1927, of what was to
become the Oglebay Institute program, music had

. played a part in its work. Opportunity was given

to individual choral or instrumental groups of.
amateurs to present public programs at the park. '
The Institute had worked closely with the Wheel—
ing Symphony Society toward the development of
a_ creditable Symphony Orchestra under profes—
sional leadership and composed, about half, of
professional players. Song leadership courses had
been held. A course, in music appreciation was
engineered one summer.

Starting in 1934, the Institute, through West
Virginia University, placed a rural recreation

365

366 ’ "IT’S THAR, EFFEN YOU KNOW HOW TO GIT IT”

worker in the field in five West Virginia counties.
Part of his work resulted in the organization of
men’s, women’s and mixed choral groups in these
five counties. But by 1936, with the exception of
the rural field of those five West Virginia coun-
ties and a well-established symphony program, the
area’s community music set-up was nothing if not
hodge-podge and uncorrelated. Then in 1936
Oglebay Institute employed a director of music,

Edwin M. Steckel.
Mr. Steckel came to the Institute with a back-

ground of excellent musical training, accomplish-
ment as an organist, pianist and song leader,
familiarity with school music from personal ex-
perience, and, best of all, organization ability.
Into the lap of this man was tossed the problem
of correlating the Wheeling area’s musical
activities.

Mr. Steckel met Mrs. Gibson Caldwell, presi-
dent of the Wheeling Symphony Society, chair-
man of the Oglebay Institute Music Committee,
herself a splendid amateur cellist, and ardently
interested in any thing pertaining to music. Mrs.
Caldwell invited to an informal supper at her
\Vheeling residence leaders of various choral and
instrumental groups, the head of the musician’s

union, school music authorities from both sides
of the Ohio River.

The Survey Is Initiated

A music survey was suggested to the group,
which at once became interested and active when
its possibilities were outlined by Mr. Steckel. On
the spot, committees were formed to survey such
separate fields as professional music, church music,
school music, solo talent, meeting and rehearsal
facilities and every other item remotely associated
with the community music picture.

Mechanics of the survey were simple. The
chairman for school music, for example, enlisted
the aid of music educators on both sides of the
river. Soon he had available a card index which
listed such items as the names and addresses of
all music educators in the Wheeling area, the num-
ber of musical organizations in each school sys-
tem, their enrollments and other
details. Similar listings of mu-
sical resources went on in the
other separate fields.

In the meantime Mr. Steckel
kept in daily touch with the sur-
veyors, helped personally where
help was needed and gradually

Countless surveys are made. but
many of them' rumor has itI are
filed away and nothing more is
ever heard of them! Here is the
story of a community music sur- _
vey whose findings were translat- event in the area’s mus v

ed into significant developments.

   
    
    
  
      
  
  
 
 
 
  

accumulated the combined file of the separate 5
veys. At the end of about three weeks reports a
gan to come in. Some astonishing things w
revealed even to peOple who thought themsel
familiar with the Wheeling area and its music

The survey determined, for example, t
eighty-five churches in the area had establisl
choirs and that fifty-seven of these churches a
ployed professional choir leaders, or organists,
organist-leaders. Only eight churches paid t
singers. It was found that in twenty-two se
ate public and five parochial school systems of
region, there were employed a total of fifty-t
‘music educators. Such other items were un
ered as the presence of eighteen established a
teur vocal organizations and nine amateur ins
mental groups. It was found that in the .
there were sixteen professional instrumental
ganizations, five professional concert series, si
one vocal soloists, thirty-two instrumental soloi
ninety-one private teachers of music. Twe
suitable and available concert halls were listed

Developments Follow the Survey

That gives a fair idea of the material unc
ered by the survey. With the findings of the s
vey in Mr. Steckel’s hands developments ca
rapidly.

An Oratorio. No individual or agency ever ‘{
brought the best singers of those eighty-
church choirs together for a single event.
local ministerial association eagerly accepted u
proposal that these vocalists should combine i
regional effort. Thirty choir leaders met with l\
Steckel and agreed to enlist all forces in the p
sentation of the Oratorio “Elijah,” by Mend
sohn. The oratorio was sung at Wheeling in 1n
March by a selected group from the singers
those choirs—370 voices. Dr. I-Iollis Dann, e
nent choral conductor, was engaged to lead i
production. He met with the various leaders
the outset and outlined his plan, following up t
initial contact with a series of bulletins. Lo
leaders worked with their own groups betw
massed rehearsals, four of which were held. '
choice of four professio
soloists from New York if
ated the possibility of arous'
local jealousies. _

Local newspapers called
oratorio the finest cooperat

9

history.

 

“IT’S THAR, EFFEN YOU KNOW HOW TO GIT IT” 363

The Ohio Valley Festival Chorus. The perform-
ance over, the singers asked, almost unanimously,
“What do we do next?” Result—the organiza—
tion of the Ohio Valley Festival Chorus with a
program of one outstanding event each winter and
each summer.

A Music Educators' Association. Another exam—
ple of what the survey did: Music educators on
one side of the Ohio River scarcely knew their co-
workers across that stream. The Ohio Valley
schools are proud of their high school bands.
These seemingly irrelevant facts became meaning-
ful with the formation of the Ohio Valley Music
Educators’ Association with a membership of
forty-eight of the area’s fifty-three educators. The
Association’s first oHicial act was the sponsorship
of the first Ohio Valley Band Clinic.

Band leaders recommended players from their
organization. Each player 'was given an audition
which included scale playing, sight reading and a
prepared number. A committee then assigned the
successful candidates to places in the band of one
hundred and fifteen pieces representing eighteen
Ohio Valley high schools. Ernest Williams of
New York was brought in as clinic director and
a two-day clinic was held. A public concert cli—
maxed it, and then the big band played in fOUr
separate centers of the area in the next two weeks.

A Community Music Association. The vexatious
matter of conflicting dates for musical events long
had been a thorn in the fiesh of the local music
leaders. From the survey came the Community
Music Association, whose functions are to serve
as a clearing house for concert dates, as a contact
agency for local groups, and to act as official
sponsoring body for combined musical activities
within the area. As a start the Association spon—
sored two weeks of carol singing, twice daily, at
Wheeling’s first community Christmas tree in
December of 1936.

’ Edwin M._Steckel serves as full-time secretary
for these various groups, as well as other agen-
cies and organizations in the music panorama of
the Wheeling area.

Other Accomplishments

What are some of the other accomplishments
which may be traced to the music survey? Here
are a few of them:

A Junior High School choral festival at Wheel—
ing with a massed chorus of 400 youngsters in
public performance; a senior high school music
festival in connection with the Arbor Day pro—

gram at Oglebay Park, with 600 high school sing
ers involved; a “Music Week Observance” whicl
brought Geoffrey O’Hara to Wheeling to appea:
before a dozen civic clubs of the area and mom
than 12,000 public school children in a single week

There is scheduled for Oglebay Park late i1
August (this is written in July) a two week cam]
of the famous “Singing Boys of America” fron
Steubenville, Ohio. In addition to the fifty boy:
of this famous group, churches of the area an
sending a hundred local boys to play and sing
with this talented band of youngsters under thei:
own director. A sacred concert will be offere<
the public at the end of the two week period 0
training, and the nucleus of the “Singing Boys’
will present other public programs during thei
stay at the park.

At Oglebay Park this summer a comprehensiw
concert program is catering to thousands of peo
ple. On every Sunday afternoon and on alternatu
Thursday evenings the Wheeling Symphony i
scheduled to play. The Symphony is under th«
leadership of Antonio Modarelli, late of the Pitts
burgh Symphony, and is rapidly striding ahead.

On the unscheduled Thursdays, amateur in
strumental and vocal organizations of the area an
scheduled for evening concerts, and in September
upon the close of the Symphony concerts, eacl
Sunday afternoon and each Thursday evening wil
be filled by a concert of organizations of this type

On every Sunday evening in July and Augus
public vesper programs are held. These are pre
ceded by a fifteen minute organ recital by gues
organists, and each vesper program includes spe
cial music and congregational singing.

Such special and outstanding events are in th
offing, as an August first presentation of choruse
from “Elijah,” by the Ohio Valley Festiva
Chorus accompanied by the Wheeling Symphony
On September 19th an Ohio Valley band festiva
again will draw high school bandsmen together—
this time in connection with the appearance at th
park of the United States Marine Band. Thi
school bandsmen will mass with the Marine Ban<
for one number under its director, Captain Tay
lor Branson. This will take place in the after
noon. In the evening the Marine Band will play :
public concert.

Most of these events are free, but the Musii
Festival and Marine Band program will be pre
ceded by ticket sales by the high schools concern
ed, with part of the proceeds going to defray thi

(Continued on page 394)

Good Times

N HEY ARE a great bunch,”
I laughed Bill North, the

campus cop, when I asked

him his opinion about the students of the College
of Agriculture at the Ohio State University. He
went on to say that he wished other colleges had
the pep and enthusiasm for group activities that
the Agricultural College exhibits. “I actually be-
lieve that eighty per cent of them knows every-
body else,” blandly contributed Shorty, the Ag
Alley cop. (Ag Alley is that end of the campus
on which most of the buildings of the College of
Agriculture are located.) ' '

Education College asks “why ?” Ag College re—
plies with the word—“recreation.”

Yes, Ag College believes in recreation—mnot the
type which means solely movies and dances, but
rather activities in which there may be group par-
ticipation. The activities of the college are sub—
ject to the All Agricultural Council which has as
ex—ofhcio members" the Dean and Secretary of the
college. The books of each organization are care-
fully checked by a student auditor. This and other
factors prevent the limiting of membership in
the campus organizations. '

Membership in this council consists of the presi-
dent from each of a number of organizations. In
addition two members from the Home Economics
club, the president and a senior; two seniors from
University Grange .1620, one of whom is a man

and one a woman; one member from the Agri— '

cultural Student; the Student Senate member
from the College of Agriculture, and any student
officers of the National Collegiate Agricultural
Council that may be enrolled in the College of
Agriculture.

What Do They Enjoy?

\\’hat is the type of group participation that
these college groups enjoy? The answer is folk
games and play party games. Yes, we furnish
much of our own music. The credit for our in—
terest in this type of activity is due to our very
good friend R. B. Tom, extension in rural eco-
nomics, at Ohio State University. Many of the
young people have been at camp with Mr. Tom
before entering the University and consequently
are prepared for this type of recreation. For those
especially interested in recreational leadership Mr.

368

.n "Ag Alley”

By DOROTHY LANGSHAW
Perry, Ohio

Tom offers a course which con-
sists of lectures upon the theory
of play and play leadership. This
course also has a laboratory period which is actual
participation in play party games. At this time
ideas brought up in lecture are tried out._ In con-
nection with this class teams are sent out to near—

by communities to lead parties.

It’s a big evening for many students when Billy
Foster and his Yellow Jackets come to the
Armory for a Square Dance. There are often as
many as fifty sets keeping in perfect rhythm with
the call “Darling Nellie Gray.” The fioor is also
crowded when other types of old time dances are
played such as schottische, rye waltz and polka.
As is to be expected, modern dances are pOpular
on this as any other campus, including the formal
proms.

Skill games have been very pOpular with this
group. Various students have found opportunity
to visit the home-of Lynn Rohrbough, just twenty
miles from the campus, where they can make their
own equipment for the games.

Picnics

Picnics have their place in the curriculum of Ag
Alley. In the spring quarter each year the All
Agricultural Council sponsors an “All Ag Spree”
which is really a picnic. Everyone in the College
of Agriculture is urged to attend, including the
faculty. The early evening is spent in out-of-
door sports, such as baseball, and other competi—
tive games. When hunger calls a picnic supper is
enjoyed amid laughter and song. When the food
has disappeared a‘mixed dance fills the time for
the remainder of the evening. It is impossible to
go to such outings without recognizing at least the
faces of your classmates—thus the basis for
Shorty’s comment.

The Annual Banquet and Dance

Ag College goes
more formal for its
annual banquet and
dance which is held
during the winter
months. One of the
purposes of the ban-

quet is to present -
(Continued on
page 394)

     

This month colleges w
will flock back from s i

play.IWhat do these 5
college? How far do -'

   

people? From two sou .

  

h

OST OF THE recreational
activities in Forest Grove,

‘ benefit the towns-

  

Oregon, are sponsored by
Pacific University or are held on the school prop—
erty. Although several of these functions were
primarily intended as purely school affairs, they
have come to include most of the town’s popula-
tion. A comparatively small town, Forest Grove
has a great number of recreational projects.

At Christmas

As Pacific University is called the “New Eng-
land college of the \Vest,” it has many old Eng—
lish customs, one of which is the VVassail party.
Just before the Christmas holiday the towns peo—
ple are invited to McCormick Hall, the men’s
dormitory, which is appropriately decorated with
fir trees, cedar boughs and mistletoe. The Christ—
mas spirit prevails, and the University Glee Club,
the Girls in formals and the men in dark suits,
sing carols. There is a tableau or short play and
informal speeches. To the crackling of the Yule
log in the fireplace a platter is brought in on
which is the boar’s head; then—the wassaill Hot,
spicy, it is followed by a platter of “snapdragons”
—burning raisins soaked in alcohol. Friends drink
one another’s health in the aromatic wassail.

Another Event of the Christmas season is the
presentation of Handel's great oratorio, the M es-
siah. A group is formed composed of the Uni-
versity Glee Club and any members of the town’s
choirs who wish to join. The Jlrfessiah, together
with other Christmas music, is presented by this
group before Christmas. The Sunday after Christ—
mas they join with the choirs of the Portland
Council of Churches to present the Messiah at
the Civic Auditorium under the direction of \Vil-
lem Van Hoogstraten, accompanied by the Port-
land Symphony orchestra. Each person who at-

tends three practices and the performance is
credited with fifty

cents which is given
to his choral group
to purchase music.

doors and students

eager for work and

Throughout the
Year

heir leisure time at

An unusual ac-

rs to these inquiries. tivity is the annual

By S. SHIRLEY ROBERTS
Pacific University

Recreation in a College Town

high school music tournament
sponsored by Pacific. Well-
known musicians from Oregon
and Washington are judges, and schools from all
over Oregon and Washington send representa-
tives. Every townsman avails himself of the op—
portunity to hear the music, classical and semi-
classical, which is sung or played on piano, violin,
viola and bass viol.

Probably the most unique feature at Pacific
that is valuable to the town in a recreational
way is a physical education class called “games
of low organization.” The members of this
class learn to lead marching, party games, and
folk dances, and are available at any time to
conduct recreational activities at Parent-
Teacher, Sunday School, or other group meet-
ings. The member of the class who is to plan
and direct a meeting of this type tries it on the
class first to discover if any changes in pro-
gram are necessary.

More in line with work all over the country
are the May Day festival in which high school
and grade school pupils participate, and which
is enjoyed by the entire town; the extra gymh
nasium classes in games, dancing and swim-
ming for townspeople; the supervised swim~
ming periods for Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls,
and Girl Reserves, and the annual play day'for
high school girls in this' county, which is held
in Pacific’s gym.

Last summer the stores in Forest Grove
started a softball league, but it was not en—_
tirely successful because of the necessity of
holding twilight games. Nothing daunted, the
merchants have started a campaign to buy arc
lights for Pacific’s athletic field. They will be
used not only for the softball games but for
high school and college football games as well.

\Ve shall be glad to receive from other colleges
and educational institutions information regarding
the recreational activities being conducted by the
students. RECREATION is particularly anxious to
know of instances in which colleges are sharing
their recreational programs with the people of the
communities in which the institutions are located.

369

Recreational Provision in Housing Projects

0TH PUBLIC and p r iv a t e
groups concerned with pro—

moting housing develop—
ments are increasingly including
recreational areas and facilities
as an integral part of their plans.
Community buildings, recrea-
tion rooms, playgrounds, day

nurseries, swimming pools and
other facilities are being constructed at the same

time as the houses themselves.

Buckingham. Buckingham in Clarendon, Vir-
ginia, is a planned residential community develop-
ed by Paramount Communities, Inc., and consists
chiefly of two-story group houses ranging in size
from two to sixteen families. The section now
under construction will provide for 510 families

and occupies twenty-six and a half acres. Event- _

ually 2,500 families will be accommodated in the
development which caters to renters with an in—
come averaging $1,200 to $3,000 a year.

Land coverage is less than twenty per cent, and
all open spaces are developed in landscaped areas
and play spaces. Present plans call for, among
other things, space for community rooms, tenants
workshops, an auditorium, and nursery schools if
desired by the tenants. Plans are laid for a fully
equipped playground for children five to eleven
years of age.

Hillcres’r. Completed six months ago, Hillcrest,
a development of the Meadville Housing Corpo—
ration, Meadville, Pennsylvania, relieved a hous-
ing shortage brought about by the establishment
of two new industries in the community. The
corporation is sponsored by the Chamber of Com-
merce and the Central Labor Union.

The plot occupies forty-three acres of hill side,
twenty-three of which were used for building
purposes. Five acres were set aside for future
use and eleven acres were given to the city of
Meadville for park area.

The Chandler Traci". In a project of the Reset-
tlement Administration, Department of Agricul-
ture, part—time farms will be established on the
Chandler Tract in Arizona to enable temporary
laborers on farms to escape the necessity for mi-
gratory living by supplementing their incomes and
providing minimum, but adequate housing. The

370

In l'he Architectural Record for
May' I937, are described a num-
ber of public and priva’re housing
projec’rs from widely separai'ed
sec’rions of ’rhe coun’rry. The s’ra’re-
men’r presen’red here will give our
readers some idea of fhe facili-
l'ies and areas being provided in
greatly differing develoPmem‘s.

project supplies 350 acres of
farm land surrounding the hous-
ing tract, on which marketable
crops and livestock can be rais-
ed by the laborers during peri—
ods of temporary unemploy-
ment. In addition to crop lands,
each apartment will have a
, small garden where flowers and
special vegetables can be grown. A community
building will have facilities for a day nursery, for
social gatherings and for various other activities.

Liber’ry Square. Liberty Square, recently opened
PWA housing project, stands on the outskirts of
Miami, Florida. Its 243 units are made up of
one- and two—story group houses containing from
two to live rooms each which will house only
families who previously lived in sub-standard
homes and whose income does not exceed five
times the rent plus the cost ofl facilities. The site
calls for a community building, centrally located,
with accommodations for“ a day nursery and a
large auditorium. Behind this building is a large
open dance floor. Swimming and wading pools
are flanked on either side by large grass plots. The
arrangements of the building allow court space
for children’s playgrounds and a garden area for
adults.

Pickwick Landing Dam. The Pickwick Landing
Dam development is a PWA housing project for
the provision of permanent homes for workers at
this Tennessee Valley Authority plant. The proj-
ect includes a ten room public school in combina-
tion with a community building which also con-
tains an auditorium for both colored and white,
a reading room and a sitting room.

Parklawn. Parklawn, also a PWA Housing
Project, is located near Milwaukee’s industrial

and employment district. The tract of forty-two
acres contains sixty-four fireproof structures
grouped around courts. Seven and a half acres
are set aside for recreational purposes. A com-
munity house with many facilities, a number of
playgrounds and wading pools are provided. An
arrangement with the Department of Municipal
Recreation and Adult Education of the Milwaukee
Public Schools has been made whereby the Hous~
ing Project provides the facilities and the Depart-
ment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Educa—

tion the recreational leadership and program.

   

 

At the Port'ola Recreation Center

is located in a district which
lies in the center of a group of
very much isolated and independent districts of
San Francisco. In the past years sectional feeling
has run high, with constant warfare between the
istricts involved. Natural boundaries, such as
ills and vegetable gardens, were the border line
ver which armed conflicts frequently raged.
Strategy resembling that used in actual warfare
was often employed by the various district forces.
me gang would entice the enemy across the rail-
road track at the moment when a freight train was
coming through, thereby shutting off retreat and
enabling the capture of the “foreigners.” Many
of the captives were treated cruelly and the police
were constantly called on to restore law and order.
The use of rocks and weapons of many kinds was
Common. Eventually an unfortunate motorman
piloting a street car was shot with a ride. It was
then that the city government became conscious
of the fact that troubles were
constantly brewing in this
_ district.
The population of the sec-
, tion is a mixture of practi-
cally every nationality, with
Italians; Scandinavians and
.‘ Jews predominating and with
, a generous sprinkling of Mal-
. tese, Germans, Spanish and
‘ French. Because of this mix-
 ture it has been difficult to

THE PORTOLA Recreation Center

By PAUL MADSEN
General Director

The Portola Recreation Center operated
by the San Francisco Recreation Com-
mission has completed its- sixth year. As
the Commission lool<s back over these
years, it feels that the Center has not
only provided leisure time activities for
many thousands of people of all agesI
with progressively better programs as
the leaders have gained in experience.
but it has helped materially in reducing
juvenile delinquency in a neighborhood
which presented many acute problems.

secure solidarity and uniformity of
action. The nationalistic feeling
which prevailed very strongly in the
past often made progress impossible along com-
mercial as well as‘ fraternal lines.

Then Came the Center!

It was in the midst of a cosmopolitan district of
this type that Portola Recreation Center was es-
tablished six years ago by the San Francisco,
California Recreation Commission. The building
contains gymnasiums of maximum size with ap-
paratus and adequate shower facilities, four club
rooms, a kitchen, a well—equipped stage, craft
rooms and offices. The center is located on a ten
acre playground with the usual facilities such as
baseball diamonds, basketball courts, tennis courts,
and children’s apparatus. The attendance on this
playground prior to the opening of the building
averaged about 1,200 a week. With the building
in operation the average attendance is about 5,000.

The Staff. The stan of the

center consists of one gen-
eral director and four assist-
ant directors, three of whom
are on a part—time basis. At
the present time the staff is
augmented by t w e n t y- t w o
WPA assistants who teach
various kinds of craft work,
issue supplies, do] office work,
and perform other services.

371

372 AT THE PORTOLA RECREATION CENTER

Hours of Operation. The center opens at 8:30
A. M. and is in constant use until II :00 P. M. and
often later. An emergency educational program
nursery school using the facilities of the center
takes care of thirty-five babies. The fast moving
of furniture makes it possible to convert the rooms

into play rooms and sleeping rooms for the nurs- I

ery with its kindergarten furnishings in the morn-
ing, and to transform them into adult club rooms
for afternoon and evening activities. In this way
a maximum usepf the building is secured with
the most efficient tservices for the greatest number
of people.

Because of lack of school facilities the near-by
junior high school uses the gymnasium of the cen—
ter for its various physical education classes.

4

Clubs and Classes

\Ve have found that by grouping our partici-
pants into forty or fifty groups and classes of
from twenty to twenty-five each we are far better
able to guide these individuals, with their differ-
ences in background and experience, and to gain
a better insight into their family life and environ-
ment. There are about thirty clubs sponsored by
the center and held together by a variety of inter-
ests. Among the groups are Camp Fire Girls,
Boy Scouts, Sea Scouts, athletic clubs, social
clubs, and clubs for practically every age and in--
terest. A strong active mother’s club is one of
our outstanding groups. The classes carried on
regularly include folk dancing, tap dancing, ball-
room dancing, acrobatic dancing, a toy symphony,
orchestras, glee clubs, airplane building, wood-
work, painting, gymnasium activities and a nurs-
ery school, instruction in piano playing, soap carv-
ing, puppetry, dramatics, tennis, story-telling and
harmonica instruction.

The Club Advisor. Each club has from twelve
to fifty members who elect their own officers and
transact their own business. A director is assign-
ed as adviser to each club, and while all directors
are interested in all clubs each adviser is definitely
responsible for the club of which he is in charge.
He is sometimes granted the right: to vote in club
meetings but is usually a silent spectator, leaving
all the planning to the club members but always
standing ready to be of assistance and to interpret
the rules and regulations of the center.

The Council of Representatives. In order to
secure unified action by all clubs meeting in the
center, a council of representatives has been 'or-

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
   

ganized to which each club elects a delegate. V
have tried to make this council a dignified body :
“statesmen” and to attach real importance to t
office and its duties. The council meets regular
once a month. The delegates are assignedto th
regular permanent seats and business is carr
on in a very dignified manner. The officers
the council are elected by the delegates. By g'
this body a great deal of responsibility we
been able to secure cooperation and disciplin
otherwise obtainable. It has been our expe
that the greater the responsibility given this 5
the better the response from the clubs.

Through OUr method of organization we
secured leaders able to promote and conduct
ter-wide, and inter—club activities. The coun
empowered to make assessments on the club
various purposes. It conducts baseball and in
basketball tournaments and is in charge of e
such as our large indoor carnival, our annive
celebration and other activities which have be
traditional during the past Isix years. The
versary celebration lasts a week and is obse
by various athletic, musical and dramatic
grams. The week is eagerly awaited by memb
of all the clubs. Recreation executives, city (I
cials and other dignitaries are always invited, a
the clubs take great pleasure in entertaining the

Meeting Places for Clubs. Many clubs are ‘
favor of having their club rooms in varior
homes, attics and basements. While we encou
age the use of the facilities of the center, we al
encourage certain clubs to maintain their ow
rooms. Some groups like to have a place whe
they can gather at any time and rooms which th
may furnish in any way they desire. We beliex
the proper approach to this problem, which is i
deed a problem in many instances, lies in takii
a personal interest in these clubs and visiting the
as often as possible. Our directors are welcon
guests at most of the clubs, and the mere know
edge that a director may visit them at any tin
keeps activities and facilities at a high standarr
We invite these independent groups to participa
in various sports of the center and feel the clu ;
are almost as much our responsibility as thoug
they meet at the building. In this 'way we ha
created cordial relations with many groups, clu
and gangs who were antagonistic toward orgai 1,
ized recreation and supervision.

(Continued on page 395) . «

 

  

‘ forum the great lessons of
I mutual understanding and

l
:Never Too Old to Play

‘ y W. DUNCAN RUSSELL . .. w ' t.

E HAVE BEEN taking pictures lately of the

Adult Recreation Project. These pictures

are providing the government with a faithful
and accurate record of varied forms of recreation
offered to the citizens of Boston, under sponsor-
ship of the \Vorks Progress Administration. They
show groups of amateurs in all sections of the city
taking part in community entertainments. They
picture mén and women in arts and crafts centers
learning new skills with their hands. They give
flashes of community orchestras and choral groups
putting on music festivals in their neighborhoods.
There is a series devoted to lecture and discussion
groups showing people of all classes meeting in
friendly fashion to get a lit—
tle closer to the actualities
of life and to each other and
to learn from the o p e n

tolerance.

These pictures, to me. are
more engrossing than the
most brilliant Hollywood
film, for the reason that
they are real. They are part
of a human record being

’1

Behind the pictures—what? In a series of
talks broadcast over Station WCOP. Bos-
ton. W. Duncan Russell. General Director.
Community Service of Boston. who is now
serving as Executive Director of the Adult
Recreation Project. WPA. Boston. has told
of some of the human records being written
as adults are given increased opportunity
to find expression through leisure time ac-
tivities. In his first broadcast. presented
here. Mr. Russell tells what is bacl< of some
of the pictures which have been taken at
some of the various centers in operation.

     

written in our own city by our own people. Per-
haps if you saw them you might think the little
dramas they picture must be very crude theatrical
efforts. The orchestras might look very amateur-
ish to you. The discussion groups might seem to
represent a hit-and—miss cross-section of our popu—
lation. And I suppose you would be right in this
surface judgment!

ilut it is for this very reason that they mean
so much to me. They are typical of a cross-Sec-
tion of our city population. They do show men
and women of all ages, from all districts, who are
characteristic of the Boston we know as “the
Hub"-——the Boston which has its North End and
its South End, its far-Hung
suburban districts and its
compact West End. The
thing I like best about them
is that they show all kinds,
agesand conditions of peo—
ple enjoying themselves, ap-
parently refreshing their
minds and bodies and stor-
ing up new mental experi-
ences.

Perhaps these experiences
might not seem to you very

373

374 “NEVER TOO OLD TO PLAY”

thrilling, but I know they have been life-saving
to many men and women. I see in these photo-
graphs people—just plain people— casting off the
cares, the worries and work of the day, and find-
ing a new joy in taking part in a drama, learning
to play chess or checkers, weaving rugs and tool-
ing leather, singing in community choruses or
playing an instrument in a neighborhood orchestra.

Another thing that strikes me forcibly as I look
over this pictorial record of a government recrea—
tion project is the number of gray heads in the
pictures. In order to make this record, a camera
man goes from one to another of the centers main—
tained by adult recreation in nineteen different
sections of the city, and snaps the participants and
the audiences. His pictures show older people
among the actors and registrants. They show a
great many older people in the audiences. A
checker gamein one of the game rooms shows an
old man who looks like a retired sea captain, sur-
rounded by a group of solemn-looking young men
who are watching his moves with rapt intensity.
There is another picture of a venerable colored
man whose face would intrigue a Rembrandt with
its line gentleness and its furrows cut in by the
years. He is making a hooked rug. On inquiry I
find that this old man who attends one of the
crafts centers in the Outer South End is learning
this new art—at the age of seventy-five—in order
that he may make himself useful in his last years.

In another picture, brought to me recently, is a
group of elderly gentlewomen, whose fineness is
of special Boston type. They are gathered in the
back garden of what was once one of the city’s
fashionable residences in the South End—now a
settlement house—listening intently to a young
lecturer who is evidently making an impression
upon them. The picture tells an affecting story of
the eagerness of these old women to be informed
on modern matters, and of the pleasant way they
are spending an afternoon,with a youthful speaker
bearing to them across the years a message of
timely interest.

In still another picture taken recently in the

English High SChool Center maintained by the‘

School Committee Division on the Extended Use
of Public Schools, the audience is sprinkled with
gray-haired men and women who have passed the
meridian of life.

Now, I have been what we term a “recreation
worker” most of my life. I believe heartily in the
philosophy of that great founder of the recrea-

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

tion movement in America, Joseph Lee, that pla
is a necessary part of education.

In all sports programs for boys and gir
launched under proper leadership we try to he
the development of those play faculties whi
make better-rounded lives. We encourage play f n
the sake of the game itself, for the joy of it a
for the keen pleasure of competition.

We all know that boys and girls must play
is their birthright and their heritage. But con
tions revealed during the last few years h
opened our eyes and our minds to new needs .
new possibilities in a recreation program f
adults. In this city today there are thousands
men and women who need recreation for the sa
reason and to the same degree that boys and gi
need it. How few of us ever stop. to think t
the, average normal human being is never too n
to play! Of course I do not mean to play baseb
or football or to take part in rough and tum
games. But I do mean never too old to go in f
an interest—a hobby; never too old to attend
theater performance, to listen to music, to enj
a good discussion or perhaps a timely lecture I
a favorite topic, or to learn new arts and cra
or develop new manual dexterities.

Under modern conditions people past their ea
youth are faced with more leisure and greater 0
portunity for relaxation than our mothers a
fathers would have dreamed possible. Electrici
has turned on the switch and set a new pace f i
all of us. Shorter hours of work and the crowd
living conditions of our cities have made it ‘
obligation of society to provide opportunities f
the employment of the time we now call “0

,3

own.

This need has been recognized and met by t
government and I am here today to tell you som
thing about the demonstration that has been giv
in the City of Boston, under the Adult Recre
tion Project, to prove that society can meet t
need intelligently and that it can do its part
supplement the commercial forms of recreati
provided by movies, theaters, automobiles, radi '
and those entertainments for which we pay o
money.

I wonder how many of you listening in real
know what I mean when I speak of the “Ad '
Recreation Project.” I wonder how many who i .
know about it, and have taken part in its nei j
borhood entertainments, realize its importance 3 '
its extent! ,‘

.\

I'

“NEVER TOO OLD TO PLAY” 375

Do you know, for instance, that under govern-
” ment auspices nineteen little theaters have pro-
duced to date 500 plays in which all the actors
and actresses have been volunteers living in the
neighborhoods of the theater?

Do you happen to know that in fourteen arts
and crafts centers a total attendance of 107,000
men and women have been taught to “do some-
thing" with their hands and their brains, to de-
velop creative instincts and manual skills?

It may be news to learn that every night, in
some part of the city, clerks and stenographers,
mechanics and lawyers, men and women from all
trades and professions are meeting voluntarily for
rehearsals for community choral events or for
neighborhood orchestra concerts! At the same
1 time, you will find young and old gathering in halls
and private homes, in branch libraries and settle-
ment houses, wherever space can be found, to
listen to lectures by experts in some field of art,
science or government, or to take part in a local
discussion group under trained leadership where
topics of current interest are fairly and impartially

threshed out.

Just add to this the picture of twenty—three
reading and game rooms open all day and into the
evening, where adults can put in their leisure
time learning the intricacies of chess from a past

master of the game; studying the pr0per moves

   
     
    
  
   
     

i

that ping pong is not such

an easy game after all, or
brushing up on the, latest ,

. rules for bridge. When I ‘F 1
tell you that these game
"rooms record an attend-
ance of one million since
their opening in Febru-
ary, 1933, you will get
some idea of the need
they have hlled in. the
emergency period of de-
pression through which
We have just passed, and
of the need they are still

filling.

  

At a reading and game
room an expert puts a

"poser" up to the boys

Now I am going to ask you to use your imagi-
nation still further in forming this picture of free
recreation for the pe0p1e of the City of Boston.
Picture these little theatres, orchestral and choral
groups, arts and crafts classes, lecture and discus-
sion groups and reading and game rooms as com-
munity affairs conducted for and by the com-
munity. Picture them being locally sponsored by
the recreation division of the local planning com-
mittee, and see them geared to neighborhoods’
needs, to the preferences and peculiarities of their
section. '

In other words, you will find that over in
Brighton-Allston they like to put on operas, so
they have managed some Gilbert and Sullivan
nights that have attracted city-wide attention. Out
in Germantown they love a discussion group and
having a good time getting together, somewhat as
our Yankee forebears did at husking bees and
country-store, cracker-barrel, free-for-all forums.
So they put on a community night at their center,
which happens to be a hall, and the local commit-
tees plan the program. The leading actors, sing-
ers, speakers and dancers live so near that they
can walk home after the affair is over.

This is the kind of thing that is happenmg in an
parts of Boston because the government was far-
visioned and wise enough .to realize when the
emergency of unemployment came that men and

(Continued on page 396)

 

A Traveling Museum

er. 'l‘t I.s.\, OKLAHOMA,

Junior Zoological Society is

building an interesting tra-
veling museum. The first occu-
pant of this unique museum will
be the Barred Owl chosen be— ed
cause Oklahoma is one of the
few remaining states which does
not give legal protection to any
of the owls and the need for education regarding
this particular bird is great. The display is a case
with a stuffed owl inside placed in a natural back-
ground with painted trees and sky and clouds,
which make the bird seem to be still living. In
front 'of the owl is glass and the inside of the case
is electrically lighted so that colors, markings and
beauty of the bird may better be seen by the ob—
server. The case has double sides. One of the
side panels can be opened out, forming a display
board on which is the information about the speci-
men in the case. On another side of the case is
information about the whole owl family 'with
photographs showing all the different owls. For
different grade students a different set of display
cards are placed
on the side tins
of the traveling
museum. In this
way the same
case can be used
for an grades
merely by chang-
ing the informa-
tion card.

It is the plan
of the J u n i o r
Zoological Soci-
e t y t o h a v e
enough of the
cases to cover
several different
family groups of
birds, as well as
mammals and
even reptiles;
When the plan
h a s b e e n e x-
panded all types

0f Selena: “’1” be Courtesy Park: and Recreatimi
37 6

in the
of Parks-

The story of Tulsa's traveling
museum has been taken from an
article by Hugh S. Davis. Di-
rector. Zoological Garden and
Conservation. Tulsa. Oklahoma.

Park Department. which appear-
March ‘l937

and Recreation.

“displayed, such as plants, geolog
insects and the conservation a
soil.

The distribution place for .
of the traveling museum cas
will probably be the Tulsa Z
ological Garden museum, for
will be from the material in t
museum that the case displa
will be made“ up. Such an outlet for the spe
mens in the museum, it is thought, will be of gre
educational value. The displays will be distribut
from the museum, and after study by classes V
be returned and held until another school is rea
for the display.

One of the interesting phases of the project w
be the assistance which the students can provi
It is planned to furnish the various science clas
rooms with a blank background of papier-mac
curved in such a way that there are no corne
thus making the painting of scenery appear in t1
distance. The students can paint the backgroun
and assemble the foreground material for a n

(Continued on page 396)

issue

 

    
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  

l

  

* l HE SMALL rivers of
America for the
most part have
n forgotten by our
1 makers, as anyone
g 0 has read the re-
u .. ts of our water re—
! irces commissions,
t ver commissions or even 011r common water
i. must have realized. Yet for every river in
A erica the size of the Tennessee, there are
ens, if not hundreds, of small rivers the size of
Huron. These small streams are not navigable
or commercial craft, and they have little value
.c power, but they are pretty evenly distributed
n rer America. Properly developed, they offer
acilities for canoeing, fishing, swimming, camp-
ng, picnicking and residence that are accessible
'all our people. Such streams are particularly
r )ortant for Michigan, which derives so large a
M t of its income from the recreation which it

nishes.
?
l

  
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 

he Huron River is easily accessible to more
n two millions of people, with metropolitan
roit only twenty miles away from the lower
r, Toledo but little farther, and Flint only
it twenty miles from its source.. The peOple
a can reach the Huron in a forty minute trip
more than-half of the taxes of the state and
justly claim a consideration for it that would
e warranted in the case of a wilderness river.
1e recreational needs of each of these two and
1f million people constitute a claim for con-
ation, and we should
rally expect that the
11 would be the demon-
on river of Michigan,
e the state would show
1e world its considera-
for the happiness of its
e. Instead of this, we
a river defiled with the
.-; of its cities, ob-
ed with many dumps,
and fallen trees, an
ance of almost total,
. ect.
I - The Objectives

‘l 'he objectives I have to

o
g l
'I

 
  

4

 

There are vast, unrecognized possibilities
for the reclamation of our rivers for the
recreational uses of the people of America

By HENRY S. CURTIS, Ph.D.

Definite and far-reaching objectives for the
restoring of lost beauties and uses for the
Huron River Valley, Michigan, were agreed
upon and announced by a determined group
of people representing all sections and in-
terests of the Valley at a meeting held at
Ann Arbor on March the fifth. Plannersl en-'
gineers, industrialists, foresters, geograph-
ers and representatives of State bureaus
pledged their support to make available to
the people in the congested section of
southeastern Michigan a river cleared for
boatingI improved for fishingI relieved of
pollution, made beautiful and supplied with
outing facilities along its banks. Extracts are
presented here from the comprehensive re-
port made by Dr. Curtis to the Conference.

.' Plan for the lmprovement of l-furon Valley

present constitute an
outline plan for the
improvement of the
valley. They are not
an engineering plan or
a landscape p1an,'but
rather a suggestion of
a master plan of which
they are a part. It is not complete, in that it does
not cover land use or reforestation but only the
more immediate objectives of valley improvement.
These objectives, as I see them, are ten in number.

Removing the Pollution from the Stream. The
first objective should be the removal of the pollu-
tion. No one wishes to swim or fish, boat or pic-
nic, or have a residence on a sewage pool. If the
cities throwing their sewage into a stream were
required to put it in above the city, so that they
would suffer the consequences themselves, our
rivers would soon be cleared, but cities always
throw their sewage in below, so it is the neigh-
bors of these cities who have to suffer. Their
action is a violation of fundamental human rights
and of the common law which says riparian own-
ers have the right to have a stream come to them
undiminished in quantity and unpolluted in quality.
Such public abuse has long been against the sani-
tary law in this state.

The first difficulty is with the law itself, as no
group has at present the adequate staff or au-
thority to carry out its provisions, and the law
does not seem to envision its main problem. It
says that a city may be required to take its sew-
age out of a stream “if it is
found to be injurious to fish
life or to the public health.”
Sewage drives all the better
grades of fish out of the
area and reduces the growth
of carp, but it can not be
said to be particularly in-
jurious to the life of this
fish. It is not injurious to
the public health if people
do not use the water, but it
drives away every form of
human activity and de-
preciates the value of
property for miles below,

377

378 A PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF HURON VALLEY

far beyond the areas actually reached by the
sewage.

Clearing the Channel for Boating. As the second
objective I would name the clearing of obstruc-
tions from the river. These include some ten or
fifteen dumps, ten barb wire fences, eight or ten
abandoned dams, many rocks, hundreds of stumps
in Barton and Flat Rock Ponds, and at least a
hundred trees that have fallen into the channel, as
well as numerous sandbars and rifties that make
boating difficult and sometimes dangerous.

The Huron has been meandered over most of
its course, and the bed of the stream belongs to
the state. The trees that have fallen into the
channel are probably worth taking out for wood.
The fences across the stream are plainly against
the law. Abandoned dams should go to the state
or at least furnish passage for boats. Stumps are
taken out of modern ponds before the water is
let in.

Our Federal rivers are
placed under the engineers of
the War Department to main-
tain the channel, regulate the
height of bridges and dams,
and provide for the passage of
boats. There should be some
state engineering department
having the sarrie authority over
state rivers as the War De-
partment has over Federal
rivers. Most of the improve-
ments needed would not be particularly expensive
if there were some department with the necessary
equipment which could be moved about from
stream to stream as needed. On the Huron, at
least, a tractor with high and broad wheels could
probably move down the bed of the stream in any
period of low water, gather the rocks into low
dams, which are much needed, remove obstruc-
tions and dredge a narrow channel that would
always be navigable even in the periods of the
lowest water.

Stable Water Levels. The third objective is a
stable water level which is one of the determining
factors in the value of all waterside property.
While a water frontage in the valley under satis-
factory conditions is worth from ten to one hun-
dred times as much as the land back of. it, this
excess value does not apply where the water front
of today is the mud flat of tomorrow. With no
state department in charge, this has been left to
local whim or haphazard development. Any group

Recreation workers will without doubt
agree that not nearly enough is being
done to develop” the recreational op-
portunities offered by our riversI and
they will read with much interest the
suggestions made by Dr. Curtis in his
report. Dr. Curtis believes that it
the plan he has suggested were put
into effect on a national basisI the
recreational resources of the United

States would be easily doubled.

   
 
   
    
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   

of two or more farmers may get up a petition a
drain a marsh or lake or lower a lake level wit
out considering the general effect on the vall
as a whole. A power dam may maintain its wa
levels or let the water run out as it pleases.

There are a number of marshes that have b
drained that should not have been. They w
more valuable as the resort of wild life than t
ever will be for the feeble pasturage that
afford. There are streams flowing thro
marshes that might be dammed to make lakes I.
will yield a larger return than the marshes
ever likely to do.

There are a number of lakes in the valley w
have been nearly ruined by drainage ditches u
have lowered the water levels, leaving the t
shore back some distance from the water. In I
way some hundreds of acres of onion land wo
perhaps a hundred dollars an acre have .b
gained, at the expense 0
similar area of resort 1
worth a thousand or more a
lars an acre. Throughout
Waterloo area one of the
problems has been the rest
ing of these. old water lev
There are a few lakes that
maintaining their levels
damming their outlets. Th
are a number of others Wh
a retreating water level i
serious problem.

The power pools or ponds above the dams h
certain disadvantages as resort areas as compa
with lakes. The greatest disadvantage, in a nu
ber of cases, has been the sewage of the cit
Then there is the silt that comes down with fl
waters, and the fact that such bodies of water
new and have no beaches. A still greater dis
vantage is the popular belief that water levels
ponds are unreliable, and that the water front
today is likely to be the mud Hat of tomorr
This belief, as far as the Huron is concerned
built on a misapprehension. As soon as the 5
age is taken from the river, sites with perman '-
pond levels should be nearly as valuable as s
on our lakes.

During the low water period of the sum
there is only water enough to run the sma '
turbine in the power'houses from two to f
hours a day. The companies have been consi I
ate in the time that the stream is allowed to l

but when the water is cut off by closing the s

".

l
l

  

 

ays, it drives the fish from the river below, and

akes swimming, boating, camping and picnick—
ng either impossible or unattractive. There are

wo possible solutions; one, to allow the minimum
ow of the river to proceed at all times, or at
east during the daylight hours, and the other to
uild a series of low dams to keep enough water
the river to protect its fundamental uses. Such
irs are especially suggested for Ann Arbor
: I Ypsilanti.
proving fhe Fishing. The first need is a care-
111 study of the river to find the chemical and
gtygen content of_ the water and the temperature
“ the hottest days'both in the stream and in the
dnds at various depths. Such a study should
etermine the kind and amount of food available
1.. the bottom-living fish and the fish that are
l itimately dependent on the free floating plank-
" on in the water.

If fish are to be maintained in the sections of
He river below the dams where the bed is well—
i igh bare when the turbines are shut off, there
J ust be a series of low -dams with deep pools to
i ’hich the fish may retreat at such times. Wing
dams or deflectors will help by narrowing the cur—
rent and digging deep holes. Taking the rocks
from the channel to build such dams will be a great
advantage to the boating. In places there should be
brush or other cover for concealment and pro-
*tection.

The carp is at present the main fish of the
lower river. There is great prejudice against carp,
but caught early from unpolluted waters, it is not
a bad pan fish. It grows rapidly and lives largely
on grubs from the bed of the stream and roots of

 

A PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF HURON VALLEY 379

water plants. It is the main fish of our colored
fishermen, who often come down in their cars and
spend several days at the riverside, sleeping in
their cars at night and cooking the fish as caught.
As the sewage is cleared from the river, the game
fish will reduce the numbers of carp considerably.

Professor Hubbs is of the opinion that wall-
eyed pike, which is abundant in Ford and Portage
Lakes, could probably be introduced into some of
the other lakes and ponds, and that probably the
rainbow trout might thrive in the upper river and
in other portions, fed largely 'by springs. A
larger planting of blue gills-and small mouthed-
bass is indicated by present conditions.

Of- all the rivers of. Michigan the Huron is
surely the place for a fish demonstration. The
Fisheries Institute has its home at the University,

and there are plenty of people nearby to catch the

fish.

Profec’rion of Wild Life. As the fifth objective,
we have the care of the wild life of the valley
which has an unusually large supply and variety
of forms. There are many marshes that might
well be refiooded for muskrats and water fowl,
and beaver might be introduced at certain points.

There is at present a wild goose sanctuary on
Dunham Lake in Oakland County and a water—
fowl sanctuary on Mud Lake in the Waterloo
Project. Three other sanctuaries seem desirable:
one on Four Mile Lake, where the state now owns
about two hundred acres of land that is not being
used, one on the Geddes and Superior Ponds, and
a third in the marshes at the mouth of the Huron.
The Geddes and Superior Ponds have a great
abundance and variety of bird life. Geddes has

380 A PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF HURON VALLEY

been made into a sanctuary by the sewage of Ann
Arbor, which has kept every one away. During
the past spring the pond has had for about two
months nearly two thousand wild ducks and live
wild swans. During.the past summer there, were
three American egrets on it, and the Superior
Pond had many herons and bittern, grebes, rails,
coots and other marsh birds. \Vith the removal
of the sewage it is to be expected that boats will
begin to appear upon it and it will lose the isola—
tion that has made it a sanctuary. Superior Pond
has .been almost completely isolated, but with the
new park development this isolation will be lost.
There are few things that could add more to the
attractiveness of the river than an abundance
of wild life that is tame enough to be observed.

Beautifying the River. In this area, with its vast
p0pulation, the river should be almost continu—
ously parked on one 'or both sides from source to
,mouth so that the public would always have ac-
cess to it. The three parks now on the river are
overcrowded, especially on week—ends all through
the summer months. Yet the facilities in these
parks are in a very undeveloped state, and many
factors indicate an increased demand. Among
'these factors may be mentioned the new youth
movement, the hostel, the trailer and the thirty or
forty hour week.

The Ann Arbor Garden Club has made a good
beginning at the beautification of the river itself
by planting a water garden of several different va-
rieties and colors of water lilies in a lagoon above
Ann Arbor, and by the proposed planting of
Egyptian and American lotus in the spring..There
are a number of places on the upper river where
such plantings would draw sightseers for miles
around.

There are from ten to fifteen islands in the
river and about an equal number of areas lying
between the railroad and the river which offer an
opportunity. for reforestation or ornamental plant-
ing and the development of camp sites, if an in—
creased use of the river should warrant it.

Along the banks there are many clumps of flow-
ering hawthorn and red bud that are great bou-
quets in the spring, and there are golden rod, joe
pie weed and water lilies that are gorgeous in the
autumn. Along some of the ponds there are weep—
ing willows that are very appealing, and on others
there are pleasing vistas closed by lombardies.
The Edison and Ford Companies have set us a
good example in landscaping of their power house

  
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
      
 
 

sites, and it would be easy to suggest ways 1
which the shores should be made more beautif
if the riparian owners would cooperate. There c
be little doubt that the value of shore sites is
pretty direct proportion to the attractiveness

the body of water.

A Circular Parkway. The seventh objective i
circular parkway covering the valleys of I
Huron and the Clinton. This would make the
ley both more beautiful and more accessible to ‘
vast population of the area. Judging from w
has happened elsewhere, the increase in the va
of adjacent property will be greater than
expense.

Publication of a Guide and Plan of the Va
This involves a booklet of about a ,hund
pages, with three maps, three auto tours, a ca
trip the length of the river, a plan for a val
parkway, some twenty special studies of val
problems, and many pictures. We believe t
guide will make the valley more interesting to I
people who live in it, that it will bring visitors a
settlers and increase the value of property.

The plan for the improvement of the valley
not be realized at once. The talks made here i
day will soon be forgotten, but if the ide
brought out are put into a permanent form
that the young people will grow up with th
they are very likely to be realized. Their publi
tion is necessary to secure the cooperation of t
state and the counties concerned, and it is not
likely that some of the land needed will be c
tributed by public spirited citizens as has alrea
happened at Ann Arbor.

A Modern Water Code. The ninth objecti

which really includes nearly all of the others,
the securing of a modern code to -care for t
waters of the state. There have been a num
of studies of water resources made by president
and state commissions during the last two yea
While they differ widely, nearly all point out t
our water laws are not adjusted to present con
tions and do not meet present problems. Th
are built mostly on navigation and power, a
there is not a navigable river, in the commerc
sense, in Michigan, and their" significance f
power has largely gone. 1'
The present law is in the horse and bug .'
stage. It speaks of a river as navigable if it w
used for Hoating logs in pioneer days. But Ho 
ing logs have little to do with navigation, . c'
pioneer days are a poor index of the present sta\

Q ‘1

l
I

   
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
   

Michigan’s rivers. The law makes no mention
recreation except fishing, although recreation
resents at least nine-tenths of the use of all of
waters, and for many people, if summer
idents are included, the only use. There is lit-
provision in the present law for constructive
provement of our streams and lakes.

In the State of Michigan there is quite as'much
und for a Department of Waters as there is
a Department of Agriculture. These waters,
rich represent practically the entire resorting
tourist trade, yield a far larger return than
es agriculture. Their problems are quite as
ried and difficult. The majority of our river
oblems would be comparatively simple if there
re someone in charge with the requisite ma-
inery to do the work. To attempt to revise or
modify the present law is like building an addi-
tion to a house that is already falling to pieces.
The problem, which exists not only for Michigan
but for every state, is. that of adjusting recrea—
" nal facilities to a great new leisure with its
uth movements, hostels, trailers and love of the
of doors.

The most satisfactory way to meet this prob-
1, I believe, would be to create a Department of
aters in the state government; but the easiest
y would be to enlarge the Department of Con-
vation to cover these new duties. In that case
must have a new definition of public rights in
ard to our waters, and the addition to the de—
rtment of a division of engineers to have the
ne control over state waters that army engi-
rs exercise over Federal waters.

A Valley Authority. The tenth objective is the
inization of some sort of regional cooperation
valley authority. Every river valley is a nat—
a1 unit as '
posed to a
nty, which
an artificial
. lit. Every
ley has its
essential
lues that
. d.to be con-
's rved but
"which will not
. c o n s e r v e
.3emselves.

‘ ch a valley

I ahthority is

 

A PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF HURON VALLEY 381

found in the Tennessee Valley, and in many of
the valleys of Europe.

The Huron is normally clear with attractive
shores, a naturally beautiful river. It has no great
industries like pulp or sugar mills throwing their
wastes into the Stream. Most of the improve-
ments suggested are comparatively inexpensive.
we have a great gift in this beautiful river lying
adjacent to more than two millions of people, and
in what it has to offer.

The following resolutions were passed by the
Conference :

The Huron River Valley, because of its geo-
graphic location and the variety and extent of its '
resources. offers exceptional .opportunities for
development for the use and enjoyment of a large
urban and rural population and as a demonstration
of the potentialities of small river systems else-
where in Michigan and in other parts of the coun-
try. Such development calls for the formulation
of a comprehensive plan for the full and coor-
dinated use of the water, forest, wild life, scenic,
and other recreational facilities of the valley, in-
cluding the construction _of a parkway and the
publication of a valley guide, and would be fa-
cilitated by the adoption by the state of a modern
water code.

As definite steps toward the adoption and exe—
cution of a program of this sort, the conference
goes 011 record as favoring the following action:

I. That the Commission on Highways and
Park Trustees in 'each of the counties, the State
Highway Commissioner, and the mayors of the
municipalities involved, be asked to improve so
far as possible the sections of the valley within
their jurisdiction, and to cooperate with each other
in providing a
loop parkway
through the
H u r o n and
Clinton val—
leys. .
2. That the
State Depart-
ment of Con-
servation be
asked to co-
operate in
making the

(Continued on
page 396)

W;'

\.

A Recreation Proiect in Jersey City

ARGEST of all recreation projects in New
Jersey, and one of the largest in the en—
tire nation, is Roosevelt Stadium located

at Jersey City. This immense structure, cost-
ing approximately $3,000,000, embodies all
the latest improvements in stadium engineering.
Its plans were based upon the best points included
in other great stadiums of the country. Its con-
struction provided employment for more than
2,400 relief workers whose wages were paid by
the Works Progress Administration. As part of
the city’s physical facilities for recreation, the
stadium will be of substantial assistance in pro-
viding wholesome recreation for its youths.

Roosevelt Stadium is located on the site of the

old Jersey City Airport at Droyer’s Point and
overlooks Newark Bay. By means of hydraulic
fill, begun in 1925, the 60-acre site provides an
ideal foundation of sand and clay, affording the
best possible drainage. Covering an area of eight
and one-half acres, the stadium rests solidly on
1,600 tapered, reinforced concrete piles, 55 feet
long, with a top diameter of I4 inches. In testing
the piles, the required weight of 30 tons were
placed on them and the weight increased by de-
grees at daily intervals until they were bearing a
load of 70 tons. During. all this time, the piles
sank but an eighth of an inch.

The Grandstand

The half-oval grandstand building is 60 feet
high with a diameter of 500 feet and a depth of
250. Seats are arranged in two tiers, extending
across the bowl and to a depth of 70 feet. The
first tier, which will hold 13,000, has a founda-
tion of reinforced concrete. The second, contain-
ing 10,000 seats, has a steel foundation.

Because of specially designed truss work and
supporting girders, a clear view of the entire play-
ing field is assured from every seat in the covered
grandstand. The slender columns, five in num-
ber, afford maximum seating capacity. Two
bleacher sections curve along the left and right
field lines with a combined seating capacity of
18,000 or a total of 41,000 for the entire stadium.

The brick perimeter wall, connecting the left
and right field bleacher stands, is 18 feet high and
20 inches thick. If ‘it becomes necessary to en-
large the seating capacity, this wall is constructed

382

In its vast new stadium Jersey City clai
the greatest of New Jersey's WPA proie

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
    
  
    

to carry the burden of three bleacher secti
These sections will bring the total seating capa
to 75,000, while for boxing shows or other aff
where temporary seats may be placed on the ii
the total capacity will be well over 100,000.

Facilities for the press are found on top of
grandstand, directly behind the home plate.
press box, 30 feet long, is constructed of a wo
frame covered with copper. It will accommo
25 persons. Besides the usual telegraph and t
phone connections, there is a booth at one end
radio broadcasting.

On the second floor of the grandstand is
concourse. Off it is a series of rooms utilized
lockers, storerooms, men’s and women’s roo
boiler room, emergency lighting, equipment
telephone system, workshOp and phone booths

 

Other Facilities

Dimensions of the stadium are 800 x 650 f.
The baseball field is laid out so that left and ri
field walls are 330 feet removed from home pl
An inner fence incloses the outfield, the ce
field pole being 411 feet away. Without the fe
it‘would be impossible for a batter to score a ho -
run; as the outer wall is far beyond the range
even the mightiest batters of the present day.

A quarter-mile running track, with 220-y
straightaway, circles the baseball field while 5

games as soccer and football may be played on I
regular turf. ii

Drainage and Sprinkling
The drainage system and construction of
field is an interesting story in itself. The field \
excavated to 12 inches below sub-grade. Crush
rock trenChes for the four main drains which r i,
the length of the field, and smaller intersecti .3
lines, were laid in addition to the base for t 
storm drain which circles the field and ranges $
diameter from 6 to 24 inches. There are two 0
lets from this drain into Newark Bay. '
The sprinkling system for the field is a feat ‘ 
enjoyed by no other baseball park in the coun J]
.( Continued on page 397) "

5,

 

   
    
    
  
 

up activities at our community center. When
stajiC worker says to me, “I’m disgusted. My

er announces, “I’m quitting; leading that club
a waste of my time and theirs”——what can I do
help these leaders analyze their situations be-
re they throw up their hands and leave?
Answer: It seems to me there are two ap-
aches a supervisor may make to a leader who
nfronts him with this problem. Before discus-
g these, however, let’s eliminate from discus-
n those groups that literally have been dragged
into an organization by their necks to participate
‘ in some type of activity that is a special whim of
some worker. These groups are artificial, and are
kept alive only by some sort of a hypodermic in-
' tion, such as an inducement of refreshments
ery time they get together, or the promise of an
ting, or some other false stimulus. They have
reason for being, and we’ll have to admit, with
eir leaders, that they are getting nowhere. This
ves for our discussion then, only those groups
at have come together naturally because of some
ared interest, and, consequently, under proper
adership ought to be able to gain some definite
lues from a group experience.

The first approach, and the simpler one, is to
ose leaders who surprise a supervisor when they
nounce that they’re not accomplishing anything
ith their group. The element of surprise lies in
t e fact that the supervisor has noted definite in-
dividual growth among the members of the group
f.r0m the time they began their group experience.
His approach to this leader is to attempt to dis-
. cover the leader’s idea of group success. Very
often he asks, “What is your idea of a successful
’ group ?” Or, “Where do you expect your group
. to arrive in order to prove they are gaining from
3 their group experience?” Too many times, a
llader’s answers to these questions indicate that
to him a group is successful
i only when it is constantly hav-
ing parties, picnics, putting on
,1 plays, turning out successful
' athletic teams, winning trophies,
" building up an enormous mem-
; bership, turning out a newspa-
. per, etc. To him success is

   
  
   
 
 
  
 

onp just isn’t getting anywhere,” or a volunteer.

The important question regarding
leadership which has been raised
is answered by Sidney J. Linden-
berg. Director. Boys' and Men's
Work. Neighborhood Centerl Phila-
delphia. Mr. Lindenberg is the au-
thor of a number of articles which
have appeared in RECREATION.

You Asked for It!

Question: I am supervisor of clubs and other

marked by statistics which will permit him to
say at the end of a season, “My group had four-
teen parties, three picnics, published ten newspa-
pers, won a basketball championship, or more than
doubled its membership.” To him success is mere
surface accomplishment which will impress masses.
I do not aim to discount activities which a group
might carry out. There is real value in activities
when they are helping to develop social beings
who can think for themselves, make sound evalua-
tions, speak for themselves, and realize that there
is soundness to the democratic process when it is
truly democratic. These are the things that will
mark advancement, accomplishment and success
for a group rather than the actual activities. Con-
sequently, the approach to this leader is to give
him a better understanding of the intangible
values that his group should be gaining from their
experiences, for these are the criteria by which he
should decide his group’s accomplishments.

What are some of these intangible values? If
a “bully” who is a member of a group learns that
the end result through cooperating with others is
much more worth while than what he gains
through having others fear him, something of
value has been gained. If a shy boy or girl loses .
timidity, that is accomplishment. If a group of
adolescents gets up enough courage to have a hrst
party with members of the opposite sex, and car-
ries through this party with real respect for each
other, that is worth while. When a group learns
to respect the student or craftsman or artist or
musician among its number, as well as the ath-
letic hero, that is attainment. A desire for in-
creased knowledge of civic affairs, an indication
of growth of vision through wanting to be of ser-
vice to a center, a neighborhood, a community; a
more sympathetic understanding of a cultural lag
between boys and girls of this generation and
their parents of an older generation and often of
a different culture; an indication of ambition, a
desire to get ahead, and an ask-
ing for guidance —- all these
things, and many more of the
samenature, are examples of
values by Which a leader may
judge whether his group is get-
ting anywhere. These intangible
things which do not stand out

383

384 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

as actual group activities are marks of success. A
leader who gains this understanding of accom-
plishment through group experience will soon
realize that activities are merely a means. to an end
rather than an end in themselves. It may be said,
then, that the approach to the leader who is get-
ting somewhere with his club or class but doesn’t
realize it, is to help him to a clearer understanding
of what he is trying to do.

But now we come to a more difficult problem—-—-
that of the‘leader with whom a supervisor is .in
complete accord when he says that his group is
getting nowhere! True enough, there are in-
stances, and many of them, when the trouble lies
within the group. Far more often, however, the
trouble lies within the leader. Consequently, the
approach to this leader is not, “What’s the matter
with your group?” but “What’s the matter with
you?” This situation demands skill, tact, and un-
derstanding for a supervisor must get this leader
to a point where he will analyze his own qualities,
recognize his faults and show a willingness to do
something about them. Here the supervisor must
realize that the leader himself has to reach a stage
of personal development where he will not ration-
alize his mistakes, but will admit them, and try to
correct them. No supervisor can work out a lead-
er’s problems for him. He must get the leader to
the point of working them out for himself. '

Here are some examples of underlying causes
of failure with' individuals, as well as groups,
which have come to light when leaders had ana-
lyzed their own methods, and which I feel can be
corrected only through the approach mentioned.

There are those leaders who say to a super—
visor, “I’ve had my group for several months. I’ve
suggested all kinds of things to them. I told them
they ought to have a party, but they didn’t agree.
I’ve asked them to turn in material for a club
journal, but only one boy brought anything. I
spent twenty minutes each meeting for two months

telling them about current events, but they never .

3’

even asked a question. This type of leader goes
on at great length telling about what he has tried
to make the boys do, but without success. He is
the type of immature individual who tries to force
his will upon others. He has never learned that
leaders in group work should not be dictators.
His' supervisor recognizes his trouble, but a mere
explanation to this leader will not make him feel
the supervisor is right, and so change him over-
night. This leader must reach the point where he
can see for himself wherein he is at fault, hon-

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

estly believe that he is at fault, and then \
through his difficulty in his own way, rather t
according to a pattern which the supervisor sets

Only in this way can the supervisor help
leader who is handling young adults or ad
cents as if they were children. This is the 1
who gets great fun out of teasing the boy w
trying to make an impression on certain gir
the girl who wants to please certain boys. "
tempts to mete out punishments on certai
fenders against discipline that are- pract
“spankings,” instead of talking things out pri
on the basis of an adult talking to a grown-
soon—to-be adult. He criticizes harshly. He t
ens disaster. He runs to parents: In other in
he treats a grown-up much as teacher \

handle a Child.

Still another common abuse practiced by
leaders in which the supervisor must use the
nique of having the leader meet his own s
coinings, is the situation presented by the 1
who sincerely believes he is being part 0
group and working jointly with them in e
thing, but who is working against them, in .
ality, to the best of his ability and powe
argumentation. The group would like to do
tain types of crafts, but the leader has no a
bilities along these lines, and is not willin
admit it. He argues that those boys who wa
do crafts ought not to use club time, but oug
do their work on the outside; or that it woul
too big a drain on the club treasury. The g
would like. to hike, but he doesn’t like to hik
he argues, and, of course, the boys don’t 1
This is the leader who usually carries aroun
sorts of bibliographies on all kinds of subj
but never gets past the title of some book on
list. He is the leader who will not call in outsic
to help the boys do things in which they are
terested, because he never will take the troubl
find out if he can get such persons to come
Certainly no supervisor could change this per
by merely explaining that he is'not'using pro
methods and ought to change them. Before .
change can take place, this le'ader must begii
doubt his methods, then really doubt them, t
admit his faults, and hnally work his own
through to some solution. '

Another type of leader who gets nowher
the one who takes up more than half of a gro
time talking. He feels it necessary, to talk a
each club member has spoken,' either answer

(Continued on page 398) °

 

  
   
    
 
 
   
    
  
  
   
     
   
 
   
  
 
   
 

THE ninety-five year
old court house of
Van Buren County at
Paw Paw, Michigan,
'ch has been in shabby retirement over thirty
rs, is now housing the Paw Paw Athletic Club.
- village fathers, approached by a representa-
- of the Kiwanis Club were willing to lease the
perty to the club for a dollar a year. The
‘ anis Club appropriated $200 and the Athletic
b‘ members, limited to individuals between sev—
een and thirty—Five years of age, raised an ad—

orn Court House to
Club Center

l
g

': i donated the labor of village employees. Elec—
ians donated their services to install electric
" t and village donations provided books, maga-
; es, a phonograph, piano, radio and games. To-
d the court house is equipped with three ping
u 1g tables, a game room and a reading room. A
' hardwood floor on the second floor, the work
a which was done largely by club members. pro-
es an excellent dance floor, a space for hand-
ju l and volley ball courts, shuffieboard and a
-- all basketball court. The club is open daily
1 111 3:00 P. M. to midnight, and on Saturdays
A Sundays from noon until midnight. It has
i active members who pay dues of $2.00 a year
i 75 associate members, business men interested
he project, who pay $1.00 a year.

4

THE Coronation
Planning Committee
of Great Britain has
initiated a nation-wide
v vement “for the beautification of our country
the improvement of it's amenities, in com—
moration of the Coronation.” To achieve this
rpose the committee will seek to unite in a com-
11 effort all the societies and ekperts best quali-
I to assist, and will publish a series of pamph-
’ 1 . dealing with the various aspects of planning
u planting.

Commemoration of
the Coronation

   

UNIQUE among ed-
ucational measures de-
signed to promote
safety is the traffic
C rt of the Junior Safety Council of Hamtramck,

Chigan, where no _child of school age has been

In the Children’s
Traffic Court

 

i

 

onal $100. The village gave lighting fixtures .

WORLD AT PLAY

killed in over five years. The court system, which
operates through the cooperation of the Police
Department and the school authorities, has twelve
jurisdictions, one for each of the:twelve public
and parochial schools, and twelve judges with as-
sistants, all of them public school pupils and mem-
bers of the Junior Safety Council. Jaywalking,
disobedience, hitching on motor vehicles and reck—
less walking are offenses for which written sum-
monses are issued on complaint made by patrol
members. At the next weekly session of the court
the offender faces his accuser, court attendants,
witnesses and His Honor, the judge, in a court
room crowded with youthful spectators. When
the case has been heard the judge, after a heart-
to—heart talk, passes sentence. In most instances
the penalty takes the form of an added duty or
the temporary withdrawal of a privilege. The
most serious penalty, is for a boy or girl to be
temporarily barred from 'the schools’ recreation
grounds.

THE “five o’clock
golf” movement pro—
moted by the Cincin-
nati, Ohio, Public Rec-
reation Commission bids fair to become more
popular than five o’clock tea with many residents!
The reduced prices for play after five o’clock at
Avon Fields has led to a ’50 per cent increase in
play at that time of the day. The Commission re-
ports a 300 per cent increase in tennis facilities
since 1932 when there were only thirty courts.

Five o’Clock Tea Gives
Way to Golf

“A success in every
sense of the word” was
the general opinion of
the more than 2,000
St. Paulites who attended the début of the city’s
playground junior symphony orchestra directed
by Frank Zdarsky, musical director for radio sta-
tion WTCN and well known in the .Northwest for
his achievements in the symphonic field. The
group is composed of sixty-five boys and girls
from ten to sixteen years, of age. Orchestral
music played at the début was interspersed with
dancing and marching in the beautiful setting rep—
resenting a royal court. One feature of the per-
formance was a twelve piece Russian string orches_

385

Some Stars of
Tomorrow

386 WORLD AT PLA Y

tra which played native folk songs. The produc-
tion was arranged by Mrs. Lorayne Palarine, di-
rector of music for the Playgrounds Department,
assisted by two staff workers. The orchestra is
an outgrowth of the playgrounds’ Artists Club
whose program of radio broadcasts aroused much

interest.

Pittsburgh’s Mammoth Swimming Pool—
With the opening of the North Park pool, Pitts-
burgh district residents will enjoy one of .the
country’s largest swimming pools. The pool, which
accommodates 10,000 bathers, was formally dedi-
cated on July 5th. It was built jointly by Alle-
gheny County and the PWA.

A School Athletic Field in a Small Com-
munity—One 0f the most modernly equipped
athletic fields in New York State has been con-
structed by VVPA in the town of Newstead. The
school is situated almost in the heart of the vil-
lage of Akron. The athletic field provides recrea-
tion facilities not only for Akron pupils but for
children residing in five other small hamlets. More
than 1,100 pupils, including 350 Indian boys and
girls from the near-by Tonawanda reservation,
attend the school. The athletic field project is
costing in the neighborhood of $16,500, of which
the federal government contributed approximately
$12,000. So striking is the field with its magnifi-
cent shrubbery and foliage that it resembles more
the private recreational ground of a large estate
than the playground of the ordinary public school.
The land occupied by the school and athletic field
covers 17 acres. A regulation football field with
concrete bleachers, a regulation baseball diamond
with bleachers, tennis courts, basketball courts,
and a fenced off section containing equipment for
gymnastics for the younger pupils are included.
Behind the two fields is a two acre park.

New Legislation in New Jersey— The state
legislature of New Jersey at its recent session
passed a law placing the supervision of all swim-
ming pools and inland bathing areas under the
jurisdiction of the State Board of Health.

A Hiking Club—The St. Paul Municipal
Hiking Club has a paid membership of sixty-
eight men and women. The program consists of
an average of three hikes a week, the Tuesday
evening hikes averaging three and half miles, the
Saturday afternoon hikes, five miles and the Sun-

  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
    
 
  

day afternoon hike, six miles. In other r
three hikes a week or fourteen and a half m
twelve hikes a month or fifty-eight miles of 1
ing are offered to members. Of course the -
people do not hike every time, but a good
averages five hikes, or approximately twenty
miles a month.

Two or three hiking dates a month are 5
over to special activities such as sleigh rides,
ing, swimming, skating, tobogganing and
parties in season. In addition to offering co
ial ' fellowship at reasonable cost for those
turn to the out-of-doors for healthful and
urable recreation, the club adds to the educa
background of the individual, for the hike
planned for their civic and educational inter
well as for their scenic beauty. The club als
fers an opportunity for “belonging” to pe
who haven’t the time, money, or perhaps th
clination, to join other social or fraternal
ganizations.

1

Budget Increases—For the coming year
Recreation Department of San Francisco,
fornia, will have an increase in its budget thr
the increase in the millage from 7 to 7V; 1
for recreation purposes. Jacksonville, Flo
will have $40,000 more for public recreati
the result of the referendum vote increasin
local recreation levy.

Camps for Citizenship—Under the W
Progress Administratiori of West Virginia, u
privileged, abandoned and delinquent childre
given the opportunity for camp life in ca
operated by the State Welfare Department in
Operation with WPA. After a period in camp
welfare agencies find desirable permanent ho
for these children. Through three centers y
girls from poor families are given training in
art of housekeeping and are aided in finding
vate employment. One hundred girls from I
families in the coal fields are receiving traini
civic leadership, household arts and char
building at a camp school conducted by the N

f

Developments in Cedar Rapids, Iowa— j
Cedar Rapids Playground Commission last 5
mer continued its program of children’s gar 
A special worker was employed for four mo .
to supervise the gardens at ten locations in
city. At the end of the season the children 3’
had taken part in the activity throughout the
S

‘\

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY 387

Ere summer were entertained at an outing. The
gommission cooperated with the Community
[louse in conducting a day camp one day each
reek at a farm flVC miles from the city. Trans-
lortation was provided by the Commission and
e Community House furnished part of the
,i‘ncheon. The cost was approximately one dollar

piece for each child.

lBicycle Trips in Akron—During 1936 the
.)epartment of Recreation of Akron, Ohio, spon-
red three bicycle trips. Boys and girls and
ults with their bicycles and lunches were taken
a train to destinations outside the city. They
‘ de back to Akron through the country making
liort stops for luncheon and rest. As a safety

recaution all state roads were patrolled by state

lice.
High School Pools Opened in Chicago— -

uring July and August the Board of Education
Chicago, Illinois, made available for the free

e of young people from ten to eighteen years
age, the swimming pools of nineteen high
Fhools. The Board paid the expense of providing
ee soap and towels and the tempering of the
ater, and furnished the services of a physical
ucation teacher at each school to have charge of
tivities between 12 :00 and 4:00 P. M. This was

- e first time the Chicago schools have been open-
for such use since the community centers were
osed a number of years ago. The Committee of

' e Recreation CommissiOn on the Wider Use of
I e School Plant, Lea D. Taylor of the Chicago
OmnwnS, chairman, is working to promote fur-

I er recreational activities by the Board of Edu-

tion.

The “Neversink News”—Playground papers
(1 magazines are flourishing everywhere. Re-
ntly the N eversz'nk News, which is issued by the
Laygrounds of Reading, Pennsylvania, made its
)pearance. It is a single mimeographed sheet
'hich is sold at one cent. It announces coming

‘rents, such as breakfast hikes, paddle tennis tour-,

aments, play nights, folk dancing events and
gory-telling contests. A particularly novel event
'ivertised was a floating party. Participants were
rged to bring corks, peanut shells or anything
tat will fioat. From these boats, fish and swans
ere made and allikinds of races held.

J Do your playgrounds have a paper?

l

 

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

Elizabeth Dedicates Brophy Field—On July
Ist the Recreation Commission of Elizabeth, New
Jersey, dedicated Brophy Field, a play area named
in honor of Mayor Brophy who has done much to
promote the local recreation movement. The area,
approximately five acres in size, is located in a
section in which the predominating nationalities
are Portugese and Italian. The field contains a
shelter house of colonial architecture with a large
center room and fireplace for all-year use. There
are lavatories, a storeroorn, and an office for the
director. The shelter house was a WPA project
toward which the city contributed $3,200.

On the area are two excellent green colored,
cold top tennis courts and two handball courts.
The backstops for the tennis courts are stripped
cedar poles instead of galvanized iron pipe. Other
facilities are regulation horseshoe courts, an ex-
ceptionally large softball diamond, and a children’s
playground.

Recreation Through WPA—A report from
the Works Progress Administration at Washing-
ton states that this summer millions of people
found relief from the summer heat in swimming

388 WORLD AT PLAY

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

A Health-Building Game-
for Old and Young

Pitching Horseshoes is muscle-building rec-
reation that appeals to all types of people.
Install a few courts on your grounds, organ-
ize a horseshoe club, schedule a tournament.
Write for free booklets on club organiza-
tion, tournament play. etc.

Diamond Official Shoes and accessories
are the choice of professionals and ama-
teurs alike. It’s economy to purchase
equipment with the longest life.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESIIOE C0.
46|0 Grand Avenue Duluth, Minn.
Makers of DIAMON D Oficial Pitching Shoes

 

pools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational
facilities provided by project workers of the
WPA through public improvement representing
nearly $500,000,000, with the cooperation of local
governmental agencies. According to Adminis-
trator Harry Hopkins, more than 11,000 indi-
vidual recreational projects have been launched.
In carrying out this construction employment has
been provided for more than 200,000 needy per-
sons. The report lists 348 swimming pools, 81
bathing beaches, 3,305 playgrounds and athletic
fields, 3,594 parks, 2,301 social and recreational
buildings, and 1,515 other recreational facilities.

A Boys’ Club in Wilkes-Barre—Under the
auspices of the Playground and Recreation As—
sociatiOn of Wyoming Valley and at the sugges—
tion of Mayor Loveland of Wilkes—Barre, Penn-
sylvania, in January 1937 the Anchor Boys’ Club
was organized. There are seventy—live boys in the
club and their headquarters is a garage in a con-
gested area. The WPA of Luzerne County sup—
plies the services of a director, a boxing instructor
and a carpenter. The club is issuing a paper nam—

  
   
    
    
  
    
   
  
  

ed The Lighthouse and here the doings of I
club are recorded.

Water P010 in Portlandeater polo tea
were a new addition to the swimming tank acti
ties conducted laSt summer under the auspices
the Portland, Oregon, Bureau of Parks. Sev
of the pools organized teams and held a tOur
ment. The opening three weeks of the swimm
pools were devoted to a learn-to-swim camp
conducted by all seven of the. city’s free ta
An average of 1,000 persons each- day received
struction under the leadership of the Bureat
Parks.

All-Playground Days in Portland—
summer a number of all—playground days \
held in Portland, Oregon. First came the g
folk festival, followed by the boys’ sports ca
val taking the form of a junior Olympics. Th
was a girls’ sports day at "which play—offs
handball, volley ball and softball took place. Ot
popular events were a “swimathon” for win
in the local tank meets for city championships .
a playground circus put on by the boys.

Happenings on the Portland Playground
Softball; led last summer in the number of u.
ticipants in playground activities in P0rtland,O
gon, with ninety men’s teams, ninety-nine jun
and boys’ teams, and nine women’s and ten 
teams. Three fields were lighted for night pl
Tennis, too, is a popular activity and last sum
a tennis league was organized with players i
tered from all playgrounds. The city has fif
seven tennis courts, sixteen of which are light

In the handcraft classes for boys many ga
were made during the season for home and pl
ground use. Table games led in popularity. '
girls’ and women’s classes made carved plaster
Paris plaques and trays of ply wood, painted .
finished with rope or reed.

The “Architectural Record” Promotes R
reation—“Building Types” is the title of a v
print from the Architectural Rewrd which
focused on community recreation. The edit
have taken from various issues of the Record
terial having to do with recreation and brought
together in a pamphlet for free distribution
selected individuals interested in recreation. Th
are articles on “Planning for Recreation,” _
George D. Butler; “The Architecture of Leisur '71

t
I

by Oscar Fisher; “Requirements for Commu i.

l
l

l

m'
.

 

WORLD AT PLAY , 389

- ”; “Demonstration Parks in the Tennessee

iii.- lley,” by Earle S. Draper; “Sports-Plans and G o o D
' ipment” (Working Drawings); “Surfacing
.! y Areas”; “Floodlighting for Sports,” and
" isure Demands More Recreational Facilities,”
L. Seth Schnitman. There is also a bibli-
aphy on Leisure and Its Significance. This
tical publication has been issued by the F. W.

ge Corporation, New York City.

      
  
 
       
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
     
     
   

icnics for Detroit Children—Last summer
Kiwanis Clubs of Detroit, Michigan, in ‘co-
. ration with the Department of Recreation,
I tinued their program of picnics for the under-
a ileged children. All the Kiwanis Clubs of the
contributed to this day picnic fund which
ets the expenses of busses to transport the
h dren four days a week to and from Belle Isle
1' . k, of luncheons and other items. The Recre-
n Department assigned one of its regular staff
‘ nbers and two VVPA recreation leaders to
. e charge of the event. The, children are all
1. en from the poorer sections of the city and
l

1
1

 
   
 
 
 
    

ir names are suggested by the Department of
I

lie \Velfare and other relief agencies.
he picnickers assemble at 8 :45 A. M., are taken
Belle Isle Park and return to the meeting sta-
In
the parks 0f Peoria! 11.1111015' Through thls Solvay Calcium Chloride binds the surfaces of play
thod dances were held In each park two 01‘ areas through its compacting action. It does away with
‘ : ee times during the Summer. Canvas was dust entirely—ureduces the danger of infection through

5 at 4:30 P. M. During the day they enjoy a

gram of games, swimming and activities of

ead on the ground for dancing at parks where dust-Tm” sunglare to a minimum—prevents Surface
cracking and weed growth—gives a clean place to play,

111ons were not available. , ' all at a cost so low that it hardly affects the budget.
Solvay Calcium Chloride, for many years, has been
Disused Churchyards AS playgrounds—The used by leading schools, universities, athletic associa-

' l I is Pl. 1-, F- the r an fthe tions. It is a clean, odorless and harmless material that
J y 937 sue Of ay “9 Midi” 0 g 0 is easy to apply—by hand or spreader—just as it comes

 

. . . That’s the first rule of sportsmanship . . . of all
I . play; good clean fun, clean air, and a good clean place
1ous k1nds. to play.

But air laden with dust is not clean air, and an athletic
field, a tennis court, or a baseball diamond that is thick
with dust stirred up by the Wind or running feet is not a
clean place to play.

  
  
    
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  

ancing in Peoria Parks—Free dancing was
vided last summer one evening a week in one

i tional Playing Fields Association of Great Bri- from the package (in small White flakes). It does not
,t 11, reports that the Chancellor of London, sit- affect tennis balls, tennis shoes or other athletic equip-
‘ti :; in the London Consistory Court, has allowed ment- Complete information Will be Sent ulP0n request-
ia application of the London County Council and SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

{the Rector and Church wardens Of the Parish Of Alkali}: and Cbemical Product: Manufizcturedby

Tl): Solvay Prater: Company

{St Dunstan s, Stepney, to fence off and utilize 40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK

lp t of the disused churchyard attached to the

,c trch for use as a children’s playground and
g 1llasium. “In congested areas,” states the ar- 0 
l tide telling of the action, “the long disused burial

_ . . TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.
grounds 1n1ght often w1th advantage be la1d out

as Open Spaces; in Londonproper in view of the   u m   d e

J
I

 

390 WORLD AT PLAY

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

     
     
     
     
       

$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested

in swimming pools in any way.

  
   
   
   
   

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

 

Make all checks. money orders. efc.. '

payable to Earl K. Collins

Chancellor’s decision they may now also be uti-
lized as sites for children’s play centers for which
there is an insistent demand in order to keep the
children relatively safe from the increasing perils
of the roads. Nowadays public opinion is not
likely to be outraged by the conversion of what
are often the untidy and neglected sites of former
cemeteries into spaces intended to bring into the
drab lives of the little children some measure of
innocent enjoyment.”

Developing High School Grounds— Fifteen
acres of ground surrounding the high school now
under construction for the Madeira School Dis-
trict at Madeira, Ohio, are being landscaped as a
recreational park for educational and recreational
activities. One of the principal features of the
plan is an outdoor theater on a naturally wooded
hillside where the audience will be separated from
the stage by a moat created through a series of
check dams. Trails and bridges will be laid
throughout the grounds and an artificial pond for
ice skating will be constructed. A botanical gar-
den, nature trail and arboretum will provide op—
portunity for botany classes to study plants in
their natural habitat. Included in the plans are

 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
  
 
  

also a baseball diamond, tennis courts, handb
courts,a quarter-mile cinder track and picnic ar
with shelter houses and fireplaces—From
N ation’s Schools.

Tree Planting —— The March issue of 0
Parks, published by the Union County, New J
sey, Park Commission, urges the planting o
memorial tree or a grove of trees as a fitting -

States. In 1932, thirty Union County organi
tions participated in the first community tree pl
ing in the United States during the George Wa
ington bicentennial celebration by planting a gr
of oak trees in Warinanco Park.

Recreation in Nebraska—A bill has been
troduced in the Nebraska legislature which wo
allow communities, by a referendum vote, a le
up to a quarter of a mill for a public recreati
fund to be spent by a joint committee from I
city government and the Board of Education.

A National Folk Festival—The rich herita
of America was seen and heard at Orchestra H
Chicago, when from May 22-28 hundreds
groups and thousands of individuals took part
the Fourth Annual National Folk Festival h
under the auspices of the Adult Education Cou
cil. Dr. Phillip L. Seman, General Director of t
Jewish People’s Institute, was chairman of t
Citizens’ Committee and Sarah Gertrude Kn
was director. The program included the prese
tation of folk music, folk plays, folk danc
legends and superstitions. Ballads, folk songs, 5
chanteys, river songs, Indian songs, spiritua
performances on instruments of all kinds and i
strumental presentations by groups were hea l
every day during this unique program. The
were exhibits of the distinctly American arts a1
crafts still being made in numerous parts of t 0
United States. Weaving, sewing and other fo 
arts and crafts were demonstrated. l'

Recreation and the Social lntegratio

of the Individual

(Continued from page 342)

For the law only a beginning has been made—2
but even here there is increasing interest in t
delinquent rather than the delinquency—min t
criminal rather than the crime.

This evidence of an emerging interest in wh

RECREATION AND THE SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL 391

the whole social structure means to and does to
the individual appears at every hand. If we move
toward an individual-centered culture it will be
but slowly. I discuss its possibility this evening
because for me it holds the only hope that recrea—
tion and social integration can develop together.
I One more word as to an individual-centered
culture. It is not a culture of chaos and anarchy.
‘ The children of the fifth grade in school may be
' 'ust as regimented as they ever were in the most
. iroperly traditional of any school of the past. My
' point is that if this is to be true, it will be because
this has been found to be what the personality
at that time needs to experience—not because the
(_ school needs to have quiet and well-behavedpu-
‘i pils. We may go back to as orthodox a set of be-
liefs as we have ever had, but unless I am very
much mistaken this will be because the individual
must have that sort of experience—it will not be
because that is what God needs but because that

is what people need.

Recreation and Social Integration

Now I think that I am ready to try to bring to—
gether recreation and social integration. Society
will make an effort to develop integration. It has
always done so—and necessarily, because people
need to have this scale upon which they can meas-

ure all that they are and do. Indeed I feel very

 sure that much of what you see in Germany, Italy

and Russia is this panicky rush to the safety of a
highly integrated culture. In a state-centered cul-
ture there is a sort of common coin of meaning
just as in trade you have a universal measure of

1 value in gold or silver or other coin. -

‘ Now it lies very much in your hands—and in
the hands of a very few other groups such as
yours—as to whether the social integration towards
which America moves will be on the basis of the
individual’s needs and growth, or on the basis of
the strength of some, social institution.

Choose which you wish :—

You can develop the attitudes of people or set
,down upon them ever more highly polished tech-
niques. The latter is more inviting because it
involves organization and the structure of an in-
stitution. In the former, however,‘ lies the only
lasting sort of individual development.

You can give to people something of the rich-
‘ness that comes in doing things or you can sell

' your program to society in the form of “results.”
‘ SOClety will pay you well for results because it is

| of this stuff that it builds its own integrations.

Y

 

GET IN ON

ARCIHJIEIQYI

Kids love BOWS and ARROWS
Low Equipment Cost

For Individual, Team or Everybody Around
' No Age, Sex or Physical Handicaps

Write for Catalog “R”

0
THE BEACON HILL CRAFTSMENj

Manufacturers

BEACON. N. Y.

You can develop the rhythms of persons or you
can follow the path of history towards disinte-
grating people through imposing rhythms upon
them: Once more the invitation—and indeed the
imperious call—of those in power, of those who
employ you, is that of imposing rhythms. Social
integration around any other core of meaning
than that of an individual-centered core I am quite
sure is not lasting, but it rings of those things
which those in power want and need.

You can build your organizations and set up
your games and activities. so that here again
America can escape into reality. The other side of
the picture is difficult and has in it only long hard
work 'and little reward. You do not stand at a
crossroads, your choice here is not one just for
1937. The struggle against social integration, the
struggle against results, the struggle against
measuring everything by what we make rather
than by what we are—this is a struggle of the
next 10 and 20 and 30 years.

To give up this side—to choose as America
would want you to choose—to build ever more
magnificent programs of recreation—all of this
will bring you rewards in the coin of the realm
and bring these rewards plentifully because one
of the great fads and cries today is for “recrea-
tion.” But it will be, just the same, selling your
birthright for a mess of pottage.

For a Halloween Carnival
(Continued from page 344)

3. Feed the Cat. Cut a hole in a large carton to
make the mouth of a cat, and with crayon paint or
paper lix the box up to resemble a cat’s head.
Toss bean bags from a distance.

392 EDWARD E. LOOMIS

 

Edward E. Loomis

In 1916 Edward E. Loomis first became a di-
rector of the National Recreation Association.
Mr. Loomis came into the work at the request of
his personal friend, Henry P. Davison, then Vice—
President of the Association.

From that time on Mr. Loomis placed his
knowledge of investments, his knowledge of men,
his experience in public affairs at the disposal of
the Association and was generous in his use of
time for the society. For many years he served
as a member of the Investment Committee. He
was courageous and outspoken, loyal and always
ready to give his best thought to the problems of
the movement he had agreed to serve. ~In the

passing of Mr. Loomis the Association has lost a
devoted friend.

 

 

4. Witch Hunting. Dress up ten pins or soda
bottles to resemble witches. Toss rubber jar rings
at them. A “ringer” is a caught witch.

5. Pumpkin Snap. On a table chalk out a score-
board like that of a shufHeboard court. With the
thumb and forefinger snap discs (checker size)

cut from a broom handle and painted orange, at
the scoreboard.

6. Casting Spells. Throw suction darts at a board

1

I
7. Pumpkin Bounce. Bounce a jack ball into a rn i
{in tin set tilted up a little and braced with boo M
against the wall. There is a numbered oran I
pumpkin in the bottom of each pocket. Let e
person bounce three balls.

   
   
 
 
    
   
     
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
  

decorated with various fortunes. Each fortu
may be numbered and keyed out on a card; t
better the fortune, the higher the number.
each cast his own spell for himself.

._

I

f
I
“Love Potion” 

A love potion -is sold at the refreshment be
where, for a special gold piece of money, a “vi
of punch or coffee may be had. Perhaps



I

l

wedding ring (doughnut) goes with it, perh 
I

I

[I

I

I
I

not, depending on the treasury.

The Witching Hour
When the time arrives for the party to come I
an end, someone crows like a cock, as loudly
he can, and all the “concessionaires” start up
mournful howling and close up shop, for all go '1
ghosts and Hallowe’en spirits must fly when da\ 
comes and the cock crows.

I

Bibhography ‘
Fun for Hallowe'en . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ . 1
Contains a party, ghost story and two skits.
Hallowc’en Gambols by Marion Hol-brook . . . . . . . ..$

A short play in which Mephistopheles, ghosts, gobli
Jack o’Lanterns and witches order an Internatio
Dance Festival for their entertainment.

We Celebrate Hallowe’en . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ v
A, party in the September, 1936, issue of RECREATIO
Progressive Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ .5

Games for Progressive Parties.
Parties for Special Days of the Year, by Ethel Bow .
One of the parties outlined is for Hallowe’en. . . . .$ I
NOTE: All the material listed may be secured from s -
National Recreation Association.

Time to Kill
(Continued from page 348)
gist and politician to get together and distrib '
our work and leisure equitably, and supply 0 ~
workers with a greater measure of security a
better wages, we should begin to think and pl
for the leisure which will be ours tomorrow. Li—
sure is the best part of life. Our workers who
are now becoming the recipients of its bounties
need communal guidance. We dare not fail them. '

I
D

Developing Clubs in Community I

Centers n
(Continued from page 355)

prove helpful to the club leader. Any one, or a
combination of a number of them used as .a

’1

WECkly highlight should prove interesting 
challenging. This is only suggestive. _ 

.4.
1..

I l

   
   
   
  

uzzles and Problems. A crossword or jig saw

N
EL
(‘0
E
:1.
O
H'I
H
('D
:3
O
n
n
I:
’0
‘<
m
on
<
C.”
Pi.
D"
O
k<
a:
O
:3
H
B“
m
"U
-i
‘i’

' ct. Magic and tricks are also fascinating to
ys. There are stores supplying this material.

Quiet Games played around a table.
alks by

a. Club leader, member, or an outsider, on
travel, sights seen during vacation, etc.
b. Specialists such as engineers, bankers, police-
men, firemen, teachers or lawyers. Allow
for plenty of discussion and opportunities
for_ questions. Care must be taken to invite
only those people who can cram in plenty of
stories, incidents and humor.
c. An athlete or coach to talk on the sport in
l which he is most interested.
d. Boys, on something interesting seen during
l the week or found in newspaper articles.

Debates. Subjects generally suggested by the
oys and those chosen which are within the range
f 'their understanding and interest. These debates
airy be held within club or club against club.

l

l .Sfories. They may be told by the leader or an
‘a sider, but always by someone who knows how
~ tell a story. A story may be told up to the
ax and then each boy allowed to finish it in
own way. The story has been used as the in-
duction to dramatics. (Story dramatization.)
“l e telling of personal adventure stories is inter-
}-'. ng. *
. ramatics. Short dramatic sketches and imper—
. ations copied from stunts at camp or from a
'n k, charades, spontaneous and improvised ma-

t
r 211 are suggested.

I

ongs.

' 'boetry and Club Newspaper. Original poems
r: limericks. Some boys are clever in making
 original poems about their club, about indi-
r ' ual members, or about incidents known to all.
l' odies come very easily to many boys. This
11 be used as part of the music program. All
:h s can be the start of a club publication.

Hobbiesl Collections and Exhibits of these for
IQants. These are sometimes carried -on by the
Entire group in the establishment of a “museum”
)r “gallery” of pictures or autographs; or they
nagr be pursued by individuals in activities such
ts t

amps or coin collecting.

Stunts. Physical activities are always interesting
.. 0 boys.

 

I
l.
o]
.l.
1'

THE SQUARE DANCE—A SOCIAL RECREATION AID 393

Books.
Small Group Games.

Programs commemorating our national holidays.
Trips to places of interest in the city.

Parties and Socials such as father and son ban-
quets, mother and daughter banquets and par-
ents’ night.

Club Rallies where every club has an oppor-
tunity to contribute toward the evening’s program.

The Square Dance—A Social ,

Recreation Aid
(Continued from page 363)

“Had couple out to the right and circle four.”

Head couple lead out to the second couple and
walk once around.

“Leave that gent and circle three.”

Second gentleman drops out of the circle and
stands at his station.

“Leave that lady and circle four.”

The second lady drops out and stands at station
number three as the head couple join hands with
the third couple and circle.

“Leave that gent and circle three.”

Third gentleman drops out and stands beside the
second lady.

“Leave that lady and circle four.”

Third lady drops out and stands with partner and
second lady at station number three. Third gen-
tleman puts arms about the ladies’ waists and they
around his.

“Leave that gent and then go home.”

Head gentleman takes his own partner and
fourth lady to his station, and places arms about
their wais'ts as the fourth gentleman stands alone
at his position as is the second gentleman. The
set looks like this at this point:

@516

a Tzobneg'crig E
(9 @

“Two lone gents dos a dos.”

Two gentlemen without partners pass right
shoulders and back home.
“Three’s to the center and back.”

Three’s walk to the center, bow and retreat.
“Three's to the center and cross over.”

Three’s walk forward and cross over to op-

posite places passing to the right.

'394 GOOD TIMES IN “AG ALLEY”

It’s New . . .
It’s Different -

JUNIOR ARTS
ACTW l TEES

THE MAGAZINE
FOR THE

ELEMENTARY
TEACHER OF
TODAY

 

The only monthly magazine devoted to creative ac-
tivity material and ideas for classroom work. Each
issue oEers creative project material that may be
correlated with regular studies. Size 9x12 inches.
See this magazine! Introductory offer, one-year sub-
scription, 10 issues, $2.00, regular price $2.50. Three
years for $4.00, a saving of $3.50! Send in your
subscription today!

IUNIOR ARTS and ACTIVITIES

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO. ILL.

“Two lone gents dos a dos.”
Two lone gentlemen walk forward passing right
shoulders and back.
“Three’s to the center and back.”
Repeat same call as above.
“Three’s to the center and cross over.”
Repeat same call as above; bring everyone back
home.
“Corner left partner right, grand change eight the
whole way ’ronnd.”
See description of this call under “Andy Gump.”
Second, third and fourth couple repeat all calls
in their proper order.

Recreation in Mill Villages
(Continued from page 364)

A Girls’ Hobby Club was 'organized, which
meets twice a week. With sewing, rug-making,
quilting and flower making, all types of hand-
work and simple crafts are now taught. Music,
simple dramatics, elementary. drawing and crafts
are given children of school age.

The program is only five months old, but
through recreation changes and deveIOpments
have come about in the lives of these young peo-
ple. No large crowds attend the center, but life

 

under the influence of the program, and its dr
ness has been greatly relieved.

uIt’s Thar, Eiien You Know

How to Git It"

has become happier for those who have co 1
l
(Continued from page 367) [

expense of the scholastic bandsmen who part'
pate in the event. I
This is a general summary of the'Wheeling a J
music situation as it now exists—very much ‘ |
and doing.” Two statements made by Dr. H ]
Dann, eminent music educator and choral auth 
ity, in the course of a recent visit to Wheeling ,
significant. Dr. Dann said': “In my opin '
Wheeling district has established better machin 
for the development of community music than . ',
other area of which I know in the United Sta -,
Musical accomplishments and plans for Wheel '
District seem more comprehensive than those
which I have heard in other parts of the count

Good Times in "Ag Alley"

(Continued from page 368)

to a senior boy in Agriculture, and to a senior ; ‘
in Home Economics, the Vivian Award. '
award is made for accomplishments in the act'
ties of the college as well as class room work.
students are recognized for their leadership a ‘
ties. This, however, is not by any means the wh
of the evening’s entertainment. There is usual] .4
guest speaker, speaking upon a subject relate 'r
Agriculture. Members of the various facul '
have a word to say. After the banquet there is
informal dance. However, various forms of 
ers are introduced so that no one has a cha 

to say’ he couldn’t meet others from his colleg ‘

The Assembly and Other Programs I

Once during the school year there is an
Assembly program. The faculty cooperates m
the All Ag Council in planning the lecture p I
gram which is varied from year to year. T
program usually comes in the early evening of
week night.

Besides these prominent affairs planned to hel
the students get acquainted, the various clubs pl"
open meetings which they invite others to atten
Often there is a party planned jointly by commi
tees from several clubs. Roller skating parf
have recently become a popular method of pa;
senting an evening’s entertainment and at 1:1



(ff,

l:

AT THE PORTOLA RECREATION CENTER 395

game time raising money for the organization.

This also is often a joint project.

"3 Dramatics have not been neglected in the pro-

gram, for there is an Ag Dramatics Society which 3 
works in cooperation with other organizations,

University Grange 1626, in particular. This group

  plays and studies dramatic Supervised Plalj grounds

productions.
For all those interested in writing there is the
Ag Student magazine which is published once a J 155? Of the Press

month and always asking for news hounds. Arti-
cles may be submitted any time on any subject
related to any type of work being carried on in A 28 page pamphlet on safety 1n

any department of the College of Agriculture. relation to playground administra-

tion and activity programs. Contains

F J . n . ' '
arm“ 5 Week sectlons on physmal condltlons; the

Farmer’s Week is the busiest week of the whole
school year for Ag Alley. There are displays to
be taken care of by each organization. Besides
putting up the displays‘in the various depart- PatrOI'S and Safety CIUbS: games,
ments, many groups sponsor lunch stands where handcraft activities and campaigns.
visiting farmers can get their lunches. This, how-

ever, does not keep the energetic students from Price 25 cents
finding time to crash the square dances and other

entertainment offered the visitors. In fact this is

considered the “biggest” week of fun the winter 3 

quarter.

At the Portola Recreation Center 

( Continued from page 372)

use of apparatus; representative
safety programs; organization of

   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  

Rules and Regulations. We require very few
rules and regulations because of the great range

in age of the groups. Smoking is permitted by
adults on various occasions, but an‘ effort is made Sonal hazards' The COIOred posters’

to reduce smoking to a minimum. graded lesson outlines, plays, stor-

We have found it wise to require each club to ies, informational articles, accident
maintain a checking account. This teaches the facts, patrol news items and other
members the importance of adequate financing
and how to use bank facilities and keep books in
which the adviser and the treasurer are co-signers. ,
Each club is held liable for the furnishings in the 0f Safety teaChmg‘

club rooms to which it is assigned. In this way _ _
vandalism is kept at a minimum. subscnphon _ $l'00 a Year

provides material for 'a well-round-
ed safety program based on sea-

features are prepared by school
people who are experts in the field

Camps and Outings .
i For several years the center has opened a camp
for the boys and girls of the district. Last year  

I20 boys and girls were able to spend ten days in
I the out of doors through the assistance of various   
' organizations, individuals and firms. We were

. able to keep expenses at $6.00 per camper for the
ten-day period. This covered food, lodging, trans- New York: N- Y-

portation, medical supplies and other expenses.

One Park Avenue

396 “NEVER TOO OLD TO PLAY”

In our camp program we have endeavored to
keep to the primitive, giving the boys and girls a
chance to use their ingenuity in developing and
creating their own entertainment and in helping
with the operation of the kitchen.

Many outings and trips to various points of in-
terest are conducted regularly. During the sum-
mer a very extensive summer program is or-
ganized to care for the needs of the boys and girls
who are not able to leave the city.

Neighborhood Contacts

The director is assigned to meet with each of
the PTA units in the district, thus keeping the
units in contact with the activities of the center.

"Never Too Old to Play"

(Continued from page 375)

women need food for their souls and their brains
as well as for their bodies, and that self-expres-
sion is vital if the individual is to take his part as
a real factor in community life.

The Adult Recreation Project was inaugurated
to fill a community need and a human need. In
the two years of its existence, it has developed
into a well-defined movement surprising even
those who were present at its birth and knew the
pangs and discouragements of its early existence.

I should like to stress one thing which is of ut-
most importance to me in all plans and programs
for recreation, On a community basis—or, for that
matter, on any other basis. This is that no effort
will ever be made to make people enjoy themselves
in any program in which I am interested. This
may sound superfluous and even ridiculous. But
perhaps you have seen children being led to play
in some playground like “sheep to the slaughter.”
The very admonition—“Now children, come and
play”-—-is enough in itself to make the children
want to do anything but play. I

Of course the first essential of recreation is that
it must be spontaneous. People must want to do
things and go places. They must have a leaning
towards some avocational pursuit. The desire to
sing or act or paint, hike of play tennis must be a
part of their very beings. It may be a suppressed

part, or a latent and unknown part, but it must be .

there.

The only thing that a program can do is to give
the opportunity and provide facilities for carry—
ing out people’s own desires. This is what we have
been trying to accomplish in the Adult Recreation
Project. For this reason it is organized along

'each individual science classroom killing sp

community lines. For this purpose we have as
local citizens to be responsible for it. We re
that it must grow from the ground up and not
superimposed upon a community by outsiders
think they know what people want to do, or V
believe maps, charts, studies and statistics
take the place of the real “trial by error” pla
letting them manage their own play in their 0
way. L

If it were not for the fact that this princ
has been stressed in the organization of this 1
gram, it would not have met with the suc
that it has in Boston. The community spiri
obviously shown in all events and contests of
project is not a bi-product or an outgrowth. 1
its very foundation.

A Traveling Museum
(Continued from page 376)

uraI setting for the specimen to be displayed.
the classes may assemble information about
various specimens and assist in interpreting .
information on the changeable grade level car
It is believed that the traveling museum
assist in the conservation of many wild birds
animals because it will remove the necessity

mens for study.
The expense of building the museum is be' ‘
met by memberships of ten cents each in l "

Junior Zoological Society.

NOTE: Taken from an article by Hugh S. Da
Director of Zoological Garden and Conservation, T
Park Department. _ '

1
O

A Plan for the Improvement

of Hudson Valley

(Continued from page 381 )

Huron a model valley through the full devel
ment of the plant, animal, scenic and other
sources that come within the range of its
sponsibilities.

3. That the Governor be asked to arran
either through the State Planning Commission
a specially appointed Commission, for the prepa
tion, for consideration by the Legislature, of
water code adapted to modern conditions and d
signed to assure the best possible use of the wate '
of the. state. .

4. That the State Planning Commission i,
asked to recognize the unit development of 1,
dividual river valleys as an important element ',

land-use planning, and to cooperate in every 

   
   
   
   
 

 

W

)rlicticable in the development of the Huron
. ’Eilley.
‘ 05. That the cities of Ypsilanti and Flat Rock
we urged to provide sanitary sewage disposal at
 earliest possible moment.
g“. ‘6. That the members of the conference be re-
., sted to report back to the organizations which
 y represent on the proceedings and recommen-
mi ions of the conference, and to urge their co—
“eration in the carrying out of these recom-
.. ndations.
’ '7. That the chairman of the conference be re-
. ested to appoint at this time a Huron Valley
l0"mmittee of seven members, with power to ef-
fdct such subsequent change in composition or
w umber as may seem to them wise,-for the pur-
ose of formulating and forwarding the execu-
ion of a coordinated plan for the development,
'mprovement and utilization of the resources of
the valley in the best interests both of their own-
rs and the general public.
‘ These resolutions were signed by Samuel T.
Dana, Chairman; John Z. Gault, Joseph C.
Hooper, Henry E. Riggs and Harold D. Smith.

A RECREATION PROJECT [N JERSEY CITY

A Recreation Proiecl: in Jersey City
(Continued from page 382)

and by very few golf courses, according to Hugh
Clarke, city developing engineer. The equivalent
of one-inch rainfall can be obtained within one
heur, and a precipitation as heavy as this will
drain off within an hOUr.

Piping for the sprinkler system, telephone con-
duits and electric lines completed the underground
work. The rock trenches, containing 5,000 feet of
agricultural tile with open joints over which
.1 bronze mesh was laid, were built up to sub-grade.

S

I Surfacing

] The field was then filled in. Three inches of
Cinders, loosely packed, were spread, over which
a six-inch layer of loose, clean soil andan addi-
tional six inches of first class top soil brought the
field up to two inches of the necessary level. In
sodding, 300,000 square feet of sod was used.
Over this was thrown grass seed, peat moss and
'dried sheep manure.
The skinned part of the baseball diamond, or
‘base paths, was treated differently. Here, eight
I 4 inches of cinders and five inches of specially pre-

pared top soil and clay provide a, hard, smooth
I J surface.

In the middle of the field, sunken beneath the

 

l
.5

I
I

 

Special c/Imzouncement

00.00-

Eharacter Magazine

and

National Parent Teacher
Magazine

can now be had at the
club rate of

'$ [ll]

Per Year-

 

With CHARACTER MAGAZINE filling a very
great need among teachers and parents
through its stimulating articles on character

development in the home, school and com-
munity—

With NATIONAL PARENT TEACHER MAGA-
ZINE the house organ of the great Parent

Teacher Association—the greatest folk move-
ment of our time —

You have a combination of valuable re-

source material at such a low rate you simply
cannot afford to ignore it.

Take advantage of this opportunity NOW
by filling in the order blank below and mail-
ing to us with your remittance.

. CHARACTER MAGAZINE.

5732 Harper Ave.. Chicago, Ill.

Kindly enter my subseription to CHARACTER
MAGAZINE and NATIONAL PARENT TEACHER MAGA—

ZINE each for one year at the club rate of $2.00.

Remittance enclosed.

. o n n . . . . . . . u u . . . . u . . . u - u . . . . . o o g o . . . - . . . . . u . . . c c n o o - n n n o u . u u u . n . n o c n . u n u . . . . u u u u .0

Position ............................................................................ ..

Address ........................................................................... ..

City ................................................ .. State ...................... ..

 

397

398 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

A Handbook of Private Schools

2lst edition. May I937. “84 pages.
4000 schools. 250 illustrations. I4 maps.
Round corners, sill: cloth. $6.00

More than a guidebook—it is a discriminating
review of education as it is and as it may be

“Not only does it state clearly, and in no minc—
ing words, what is the trouble with American edu-
cation, but it is an invaluable source book of preg-
nant quotation, and an equally invaluable bibli—

ography of liberal writing and thought. I wish to,
God every parent could read it understandingly,
and I would like to stand most university pres1—
dents and headmasters of schools in a corner, dunce
caps on their heads, and keep them there until they'

had learned your book by heart. It is a magnificent
production.” Struthers Burt, Author, Three Rwer

Ran ch, Wyoming.

“Should be read and pondered by every would-
be intelligent parent who has a child to educate.
You review pithin the most invigorating and
thought-provoking matter bearing on human prob-
lems that has come out in the course of the past
year. You deserve high praise for transforming
what might seem a commercial venture into a cul—
tural event.” E. A. Ross, Emeritus Professor of

Sociology, Univ. of. Wisconsin.

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE

Lists and classifies by type and locality the more
important Boarding Schools and Junior Colleges—
Boys, Glrls, Coeducational. 2d edition, 1937, 132
pages, 700 schools, 14 maps, 97 illustrations, cover

in color. SINGLE COPY 25 CENTS.
Write for Table of Contents

PORTER SARGENT, || Beacon St, Boston

sod, is a concrete box, 15 feet square. In it are
electric light boxes and telephone lines so that in
the event of a large pageant or demonstration, the
sod may be lifted and all facilities found at hand.

Two scoreboards, 50 x 30, raised on steel props,
are located at the ends of the bleacher sections.
The baseball scoreboard is just beyond the end
of the left iield line and the football board in right
field. Orange lettering and numerals against a
black background will be visible from any section
of the stadium proper.

Twelve acres immediately surrounding the sta—
dium are allocated to parkways and driveways.
The road is 50 feet wide and circles the stadium,
running some 500 feet out to the highway. In
all, 8,000 cubic yards of concrete went into the
making of this road.

All entrances, except those facing the highway,
are fitted with roll-type steel doors. There are
twenty of these. Five ornamental wooden gates,
facing the highway, are six inches thick, made of
yellow pine and cypress, and weigh six tons each.

Underground tunnels lead from the dugouts to
the shower and locker rooms. The dugouts are
25 feet long, insulated and covered with copper.

Terrazzo flooring is to be found- on the first

lance but, at the same time, leaves a leader frtln

  
   
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
    
      
 

floor and concourse, in the toilets, lockers, sho
ers and corridors. In all there are 25,000 squ
feet of this material. Pennsylvania and Tennes
marble was used exclusively.

For heating purposes, there is a boiler of 25, \
feet capacity, iired by oil, serving a one-pipe ste .
heat system. Three built-in heaters provide
water almost instantaneously.

The stadium will be adequately lighted for
at night. Eight steel towers, 120'feet high a
weighing 12 tons each, are placed at advantage
points around the field. It is claimed that the s
tem is superior to that at the Polo Grounds
New York, ,which is said to be one of the best
the country. '3

One of the interesting points connected with n ' I
project is the fact that all copper forms, or
mental work, lettering, wooden frames and we
ing, were made right on the job with machin i
purchased or hired for the purpose.

Included in the plans for further developm
of the site are provisions for a swimming po
handball courts, quoit lanes and tennis courts. T
city will operate the stadium and collect

revenues.

You Asked for It!

( Continued from page 384,)

an implied question, 'or arguing down somethi I;
the boy had to say. This is the leader who, as 4‘
rule, is very ineffective in expressing himself.
bores his group, wastes time, and really gets n
where. Usually the only cure for this leade
ailment is to relieve him of his duties. Howev l
if anything will work a cure, it is the approa '
mentioned in the other examples given.

There are many other abuses in group wor .
but the examples cited should be sufficient to i
dicate my idea of an approach to leaders wi ‘
whom supervisors are in agreement when th
claim they do not have a worthwhile or succes
ful group.

Let us hope that the future. will find supe ‘
visors preparing leaders to understand the ai '
and intangible values to be gained through grou '
experience before turning groups over to them
and that it will bring to supervisors the essentiq
understanding that leaders can be Helped to mee
face, and work through their own difliculti
through a supervisory experience that offers guid

6?

to work out his own problems.

 

nother Here and Now Story Book

1 : 'ted by Lucy Sprague Mitchell and CO-Authors. E. P.
, , utton and Company, Inc., New York. $2.00.

HE FIRST Here and Now Story Boole, published in
1921, has been supplemented by a second delightful
.ume. This is not only a collection of stories but is
:1 r a valuable study Of child growth. Prefacing each
.I y is an outline based on research of the growth level
5. ieved by the average child of the age for which the
.. ry is intended—a word picture of the child in action.
‘ ere are stories for two, three, four, five and six year
ld children.

l How to Interpret Social Work

By Helen Cody Baker and Mary S. Routzahn, Russell
Sage Foundation, New York City. $1.00.

SUCCESSFUL EDUCATIONAL publicity cannot be based on
guess work. It is a matter of careful planning, study
,l: strategy. It has its techniques. This being so, the
t y course “How to Interpret Social Work” will prove
‘: icon to anyone undertaking publicity for recreation,
‘ odal work or other types of civic effort. Treating the
B, C’s Of interpretation the course is designed for
roups gathered under local leadership, for informal
tidy, for institutes and individuals. Twelve lessons are
l. tlined under the following headings: Telling Our Story
{’0 the Spoken \Vord; Telling Our Story by the Written
Word; Telling Orr Story in Pictures; Planning Inter-
iptation; Interpretation—A Shared Responsibility.
,Each lesson contains a brief statement of methods, ex-
}: mples for discussion and a series of questions based on
if he examples. The introduction presents a valuable analy-
a Of the various “publics” to whom publicity is ad-
ressed. The study concludes with an excellent group of
heading references. (Review by I’Vcam’r Pangbum.)

. l

l

l

'| Swimming for Everyone

By H. G. Whitford. Bruce Humphries, Inc., 306 Stuart
Street, Boston, Mass. $.75.

I ACOACH’S HANDBOOK, a swimmer’s or would-be swim-
l mer’s guide and a.pool operator’s friend is this in-
expensive book whose purpose it is to stimulate interest
in swimming for everyone, especially in those cases
where swimming has not as yet established itself widely
in the community. There are suggestions for teaching
beginners, for advanced swimming, fancy diving and life-
lsaving, and the general promotion of swimming is dis-
cussed. One chapter is‘ devoted to swimming hygiene.

Shakespeare Gardens

33’ Annie Burnham Carter. Dorrance & Company, Phila-
‘ d61ph1a, Pennsylvania. $1.25.

T, HERE ARE a few cities in the United States fortunate
: enough- to have Shakespeare gardens which serve the
.. Purpose of bringing together the flowers grown in Eng-
I

G

land in the 16th and 17th centuries and of showing the
fashions in the horticulture of that period. In this book
Mrs. Carter describes the old English gardens, flowers,
and herbs Of the Shakespearian era and lists them by
both their common and botanical names. She also de-
scribes more than fifty plants, wild and cultivated, to
which Shakespeare referred in his plays and sonnets.

Children in Action

Dodge Publishing Company, 116 East 16th Street, New
York City. $2.50.

HIS BOOK is a story without words. It is made up of

a series of beautiful photographs of children which
are a delight to see. The unstudied poses and Heeting
expressions which the camera has caught make the book
a truly human document.

Tap It
By Shiela O’Gara. Music by Elizabeth Baker Long. A.
S. Barnes and Company, New York City. $2.00.

“ Ew TYPES OF RECREATION,” says Helen Frost in her

introduction, “have won the very general popularity
Of the modern tap dance. It has gayety, pace, humor and
irresistible rhythm; moreover tap dancing affords excel-
lent physical exercise.” Tho book presents the dances in
the order of their difficulty beginning with “Practice
Patterns” and leading up through the “Nursery Rhyme
Clog” to “Heel-Toe-Tap” and other variations. Music is
included.

Life Saving and Water Safety

Prepared by the American Red Cross. P. Blakiston’is
Son & CO., Inc., Philadelphia. $.60.

SAFETY IN SWIMMING is the theme of this book which

tells when and where to swim in safety, the kind Of
equipment to have, preventive measures, and methods of
rescuing and resuscitating swimmers and others who
have gotten into difficulties.

New Light on Delinquency

and Its Treatment

William Healy, M.D. and Augusta F. Bronner, Ph.D.
Judge Baker Guidance Center, Boston. Yale University
‘ Press. $2.00.

HE INSTITUTE OF HUMAN RELATIONS of Yale Uni-

versity has added a significant contribution to the field
of delinquency studies by its publication of this volume.
In spite of all the research and study in this field, the
problem of delinquency is about where it has been for
some time. Court and probation methods have been
largely ineffectual. Special agencies designed to operate
in this field have not accomplished what was anticipated.
The authors of this book therefore seek a new approach

399

400

to the whole problem. Instead of studying the delinquent
as an individual, the study is based on the family from
which the individual comes. The significance of delin-
quency, they say, lies in the fact that it is a form _of_ be-
havior which is a part of the stream of life activ1ties,
and has as much meaning for the delinquent as socially
approved conduct has for more normal persons. The ori-
gins of delinquency represent the expression of de51res
and urges which are otherwise unsatisfied—for the on-
looker this is misconduct; for the offender it is just as
much a response to inner drives and inner stimuli as any
other kind of conduct. The terminology of delinquency,
larceny, truancy, etc., are mere descriptions of behav10r
which do not in the least, indicate what is expressed by
the offender in the delinquent act. The naming of the
offense reveals nothing of those things that determine the

nature of the act. /

Delinquency clearly is based on thwarting .of basic de-
sires for ego, and affectional satisfaction, desire for se-
curity in the family, desire for acceptance by some per-
son or group, recognition. When these desires are not
satisfied in the home or environment, delinquent forms
of conduct offer compensation. Such forms are not ra-
tionally chosen but are used because the ideas lie readily

at hand.

While most other authors center their study_and pro-
posed method on the delinquent, the basis! for study here
is in the family. The fact that 48 per cent of the delin-
quent cases studied began at or before eight years of age
and that the modal age was twelve to fourteen years in-
dicates clearly where the formative influences lie. Star-
tling are the findings of one special group studied, set-
ting delinquents in a family in comparison with non—de-
linquents in the same family:

Twice as many delinquents as controls (i.e. the non-
delinquents) had been related to clubs, in settlements,
churches or other organizations—this is not surprising
since the delinquents are more active and outgoing; more
delinquents than controls were active in sports; more de-
linquents than controls were eager readers—both groups
read about the same kind of material; almost as many

delinquents as non-delinquents were regular attendants at
Church and Sunday School. '

Treatment of delinquents centered on both the 0f-
fender and family, helping the individual to meet the
cause of his trouble and modifying the factors of family
life which are responsible.

Housing Management: Principles and Practices.

By Beatrice Greenfield Rosahn and Abraham Gold-
field. Covici Friede, Inc., New York. $4.00.

Housing management, interpreted to mean the admin-'

istration of a housing development so that it becomes a
living community rather than a mass of bricks and mor-
tar in which people are sheltered, is carefully and
thoroughly discussed in this volume by people well quali-
fied to give information on this subject. In addition to
chapters on all the practical problems of administration
involved, there are sections on Recreation for Children
and Adults and Housing and Family Life which have
much to offer those who believe that publicly financed
housing must .assure a maximum social return to the

community.

Some Animals and Their Homes.

By Mary Geisler Phillips and Julia McN air Wright.
D. C. Heath and Company, Boston. $.64.

This is the first of a series of four books for boys and
girls dealing with natural science which are designed to
cover in a general way all of the life forms, as well as to
give the pupil an understanding of the origin and develop-
ment of life on the earth. In Book I, the principal aim
has been to arouse the interest of the pupil in a few of

NEIV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

the common forms of land and seashore life, an
introduce some of the broad scientific principles invo
in a study of these forms.

0

Insect People.

By aEleanor King‘and Wellmer Pessels. Harper
Brothers, New York City. $1.25.

The lives and habits of backyard bugs and insects, r
of which are to be found on the playground, are desc
with text and pictures in this attractively issued I
The ladybug, tent caterpillar, cricket and catydid
many others are introduced and their secrets disclos

Social Work Year Book 1937.

Edited by Russell H. Kurtz. Russell Sage F
tion, New York. $4.00.

The Social Work Year Book 1937, being “a de
tion of organized activities in social work and in r
fields,” is truly a master resource in the field of ~
work. Since the last Year Book was published in
there have been far-reaching developments in the fi
public welfare administration. The Social Securit
with its attendant state legislation, the advances i
field of organized labor, the continuation of the Ci
Conservation Corps, the new emphasis on a Civil 1
System, are among the many major up-to—date que
with which all citizens are faced. The treatment of
subjects by able authors gives the volume a time
which is difficult to achieve in a work which the a
deseribes as “less a year book than a concise enc
pedia.” This 1937 Year Book is a valuable asset not
for social workers but to other professionals as we
will find its way “into most public libraries and s
soon 'be consulted there by recreation executives wh
not-chance to have it on their own shelves.

Officers and Directors of the Nation
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President
, JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
'JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, MOIine, I11.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUREE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. VVARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

 

