c-

I Want to Live

I want to live now.
this day, this week, this month, this year.

I want to live tomorrow,
next week. next month. next year.

and the years to come.

I want peace, yes.

I want to keep out of trouble. yes.
I want health, yes.

I want work, yes.

But above all I want to live.

I want to read.

I want to live in a‘world of music.

I want to see beauty.

I want to listen to birds singing.
I want to watch flowers blooming.
I want to see plants growing.

I want to play with little children.
I want to watch children at play.
I want to be with friends.
I want to love and be loved.

I want to live in a family.

I want to think.
I want to think alone.
I want to think with others.

I want to be idle without even a thought.

 

MAY 1937

 

I want to use all the powers I have.

I want action that takes all the strength and
skill of my body.

I want hardship and discipline
for purposes that I myself have chosen.

I want to feel myself a part of the world.

I want to feel that I count in a growing city.
a growing world.

I want to lose myself in something bigger than
I am.

I want to dare. to adventure.

1

I want to live.

I want to see others live.

I want parks and brooks and ponds.

I want oceans and lakes to swim in.

I want ice to skate on. -

I want gymnasiums and athletic fields.

I want libraries and museums.
4.

V

I want community centers and community
theaters.

I want art centers and music centers.

 

‘-I want to live.

I want to live in a city that cares for living.

I want to live in a living world.

1'
34.

m!

I want to live. ‘-

HOWARD BRAUCHizR.

 

Photo by Ewing Galloway, New York

58 '

A Few More
Playground

  
    
 
 

Suggestions

ACH YEAR more recreation
departments report a de—
mand for help in conduct—

ing social activities, picnics and
parties. Are you prepared to
meet this demand?

Picnic Game Kits. A number of
cities have arranged kits containing SUpplies for
social activities to be loaned picnic groups. The
Sacramento, California, Recreation Department
has prepared game kits both for picnics and
parties which are available for all groups wishing
to use them. Both kits are packed in wooden
boxes with handles and are of a size which will
fit into the rear seat of any car. Each is labeled
as to content, and it is specified on the top of the
box that the kit has been made available by the
Recreation Department of the city.

In the picnic kit is to be found all necessary
equipment for soft ball, volley ball, water polo,
dodge ball, croquet, horseshoes, Badminton and
checkers. Rules for the use of each game are
included. The social recreation kit consists of
twenty—five progressive games. Each game is pre-
pared in an attractive manner with scoring values
and similar items painted on the game in large
black figures. Each game has a number painted
in black on a white background on a piece of three
ply veneer panel about eight inches high. The let—
tering at the top of the panel is about three inches
high. Underneath the lettering all information is
given relative to the game, such as what the game
is, equipment necessary, playing
procedure, and scoring methods.

Last year the Community.
Recreation Association of De-
catur, Illinois, inaUgurated its
picnic service. 'A picnic director
served schools, churches, clubs
and other groups by planning
and conducting picnic programs,

ENTRANCE
ONLY 
? SAFETY 1

Signs on trolley
cars herald the
opening of play-
grounds in Mil-
waukee, and in-
vite attendance

 
   

  
  

i SEND YOUR CHILDREN ‘

To The City’s

Playgrounds

     

   

and by making available free picnic kits contain-
ing bats and balls and other game equipment. The
director conducted thirty-five picnic programs,
planned as many more, and the kits were loaned
to twenty—four organizations. -

The Recreation Service of the Salt Lake City,
Utah, Park Department supplies picnic kits with
equipment for various types of activities. The kits
contain horseshoes, tenakoit equipment, a first aid
kit, game rules and picnic game suggestions, sup-
plies for volley ball and soft ball, and informal
game equipment such as darts, bean bags and
sponge’balls. A charge of 50 cents a day is made
and a $2.00 deposit is required. The department
also offers sound equipment for use in parks
which may be secured at the rate of $1. 50 an hour.

Popular Games in Pierre. At the beginning of
last summer a croquet set was placed on each
playground in Pierre, South Dakota. No other
game held such a continuous interest for the
younger children. Tournaments were held for
boys and girls of all ages. A surprising interest
was also shown in checkers, and children of,every
age were eager to play the game. Many of them
made their boards and men from pasteboard or

scrap wood. Tournaments were
held’ in various sections of the

In the April issue of RECREATION. city.
under the title "Go to Your Near-
est Playground.” we told of the
experiences of a number of cities
in conducting their summer play-
grounds. and of some of the ac-
tivities which were popular. Here
are some additional suggestions.

A Publicity Suggestion. The
VVatsonville, California, WPA
Recreation Department has had
its activities broadcast daily at
I :30 P. M. over Station KDON
under the title “The Date Book

59

60 A FELV MORE PLAYGROUND SUGGESTIONS

of- the Air.” Owen Hinck of the Recreation De-
partment suggests that if properly approached
most radio stations will be found willing to give
free publicity to local recreation.programs.

Pet Shows. Pet shows have won a permanent
place on the playground program. Here are a few
suggestions for conducting them:

The pet show is often not just an affair of an
hour or an afternoon. It lasts a week or more in
many places, beginning with stories in the story
hour and talks by pet shop owners, the S.P.C.A.
or the children on the care of pets, a trip to the
200 or an exploration trip in the woods for the
purpose of finding wild life in stream and woods.
On one playground a preliminary event to the
show was a “clinic” day, for pets on which two
veterinarians volunteered their services and ex-
amined the children’s pets free of charge. In an-

other city the. children were shown animal slides.

Having aroused interest in pets and a pet show
in any of these ways, the pet show director will
find that posters, announcements, newspaper
stories and a prelimin-
ary parade of pets will
arouse interest to a
high pitch and .draw
many entries.

)«4'

Chief Whitefeatherl Chippewa Indian. visits the play-
grounds of Milwaukee to give Indian dances and stories'
display Indian crafts and teach games. This is a WPA
project sponsored by the Milwaukee Public Schools De-
partment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Education.

Entry blanks are helpful in facilitating and per-
haps limiting the show. Space must be provided
on the blank for the name of the child, his address
and age, and the kind, age and sex of the pet or
pets entered. There should be a space for a num-
ber and the closing date for entries. Entry rules
should be printed on the blank to make sure the
children know them. These may include the fol-

lowing :

I. Each pet must belong to the exhibitor or his
family.

2. Only children under 18 may exhibit pets. (A
special event may be introduced for older ex-

hibitors if so desired.)

3. All animals, including cats, but excepting dogs,
must be in comfortable cages. Dogs may be on

a leash.

4. No kitten or puppy under six months may be
entered. (For its health’s sake.)

5. A water dish must be provided for such ani-
mals as dogs and birds.

A parade is in order, with each entrant wearing
a numbered arm band and leading or carrying his
pet. Costumes for ex—
hibitors and decorated
cages and carts add
color to the parade.
The parade may serve

 

A FEW MORE PLAYGROUND SUGGESTIONS 61

one of three purposes: namely, for the display of
pets for everyone to see before the judging or for
advertising purposes or as the show itself, to be
judged en route as it passes and repasses the
judges’ stand. (The numbered arm band will as-
sist the judges in awarding prizes and Should tally
with the number 011 the entry blank.)

In preparing for the show proper, benches or
areas may be set aside for each kind of animal and
should be labeled prominently. At one show the
owner of a pet shOp loaned blocks of wire cages
in which animals could be kept until judging time.
A sawdust ring may be used for judging differ-
ent classes, and is especially necessary in an in-
door show for the protection of the Hoor.

Judging is at best a difficult problem. In the
eyes of its owner each pet is the very best in all
the world. Who is there to judge truly in such
a case? Judges should recognize this problem by
giving a large number of prizes (perhaps, begin-
ning or ending with the awarding of an “entry”
prize for every entry) in not too “dead serious”
a fashion. If animals are judged by kinds and
each class be judged to four places, a larger num-
ber of prizes can be awarded. Prizes should be
very inexpensive so that there will be as little dis-
appointment as possible to mar the show. Colored
ribbons printed in gold have proven very satis-
factory. Classes should be so determined that no
animal wins more than one or two prizes. Pedi-
greed animals are either barred, entered in a
separate class or judged with the others for such
informal qualities as are listed below.

There are a number of possible events. Dogs
and cats form separate classes, for there are usu-
ally many of them. If there is a great number,
prizes may be given for each sex and for-differ-
ent age groups in each class. Other animals, such
as rabbits, birds and fish are divided into classes
and judged in the same vein as the dogs and cats
whose classes we suggest. (The obedience class for
dogs involves four tests: The dog must lie down,
come when called, follow the exhibitor without a

' leash and perform a special trick. Two minutes

are given for each part of the test.)

Dogs Happiest
Oldest Best
Ugliest C at:

Most obedient
Longest tail

Loudest purr
Prettiest fur

Lovingest eyes Smallest
Healthiest Largest
Smallest Oldest

All the animals may compete in the following
classes: Most unusual pet; largest number of
pets in one family; most comically dressed ex-
hibitor ; best decorated cage or wagon and the pet
farthest from home. A special classification of
inanimate pets, drawings or models may be ar-
ranged for those who do not have live pets.

Nature Clubs. With the first signs of Spring,
the boys’ clubs of Danville, Illinois, take to the
trail in search of adventures. Junior boys’ clubs
in the four community centers are known as
Pokagon Clubs, Pokagon being the name of a
great Indian Chieftain—a romantic, colorful fig-
ure, 'who ruled the Pottawatomie Indian tribe. '

The first issue of the Pokagon newspaper,
which appeared the middle of March, announced
coming events and included sketches and com-
ments, birds, pets and hobbies. In addition the
paper urged club members to contribute articles to
the paper and offered one free membership and the
button of the Junior Audubon Club of Danville
for the best story submitted each week. Another
club activity was the showing of a series of bird
films in connection with the regular weekly mov-
ing picture program at each center. A list of rec-
ommcnded books on nature topics to be found in
the public library was posted on the bulletin
boards of the centers. One film which made a
special appeal was “Ups and Downs,” photograph-
ed by William L. Finley, known as America’s
greatest wild life photographer, or the Martin
Johnson of North America. In the film library of
the Recreation Department a motion picture study '
of the following birds is represented: pelicans,
terns, laughing gulls, canvasbacks, purple martins,
egrets, Louisiana herons, phalaropes, marsh

lover, coots rebes vireos barn swallow tit-
. p ! 1 y a

mouse, Hycatchers and robins. A study of these
films before the hike makes the trip more interest-
ing. Many of the boys take their own cameras on
their country trips and are planning to make their
own slides for club use.

The regular weekly program of activities has
developed as follows: Each week the weather
permits, the club members, with their nature
guide, “hit the trail.” One week the hike may take
the boys on a visit to Harrison Park to explore
the nature trails recently developed under \VPA
and N YA. Trees have been labeled and trails
have been marked, making a trip to this large
natural park area more interesting than ever. On
another occasion the boys may decide to explore

- (Continued on page 103)

"Something Old —

ERHAPS you are
P a sports enthu-

siast, a football
or baseball fan, a
follower of the
court game. You
may know a great deal about sports,
but do you know about the origins
of such games as Badminton, table
tennis, tether ball, shuffleboard or

deck tennis—those sports which in recent years
have enjoyed a revival.

Shuffleboard. If you have traveled or Wintered
in Florida, you are no doubt familiar with shuf—
Heboard, for there indeed it is the sport of sports!
There is scarcely a town or city that does not have
at least one shufHeboard court, and in St. Peters—
burg, the true home of American shufHeboard,
there are numberless courts. You may be sur-
prised to know that shuffleboard is by no means a
new sport. True, as a land sport it dates back
only to 1913, when it was introduced in Daytona
Beach, Florida, as a sidewalk game. Since that
time it has gained widely in popularity and is now
used extensively in parks, recreation centers and
schools, as well as in backyards.

The modern game of shuffleboard was preceded
by a shipboard game known by the same name.
This aquatic form was in turn directly descended
from games played in England as early as the
fifteenth century and known variously as “Shove-
groat,” “Slidegroat” and “Shovel-penny,” so
called, no doubt, because of the resemblance of the
disc used to the coins of that period.

Tether Ball. Another game,
the origin of which does not

And a few interesting facts which you may

possibly not have known about the origins
of a number of our most popular old games

By JULIA POST

. Winthrop College
Rock Hill. South Carolina

Something New"

“dodo,” and for
some time continu—
ed as a successful
addition to ship-
board interests. It is
rarely seen now,
however, as a shipboard game, for it
has deserted its marine setting and
become popular as a land sport.

Horseshoe Pitching. There are few
people nowadays who are not familiar with horse-
shoe pitching as a sport. As a farmyard sport,
where horseshoes are to be found in abundance,
it has long been p0pular. The clang of shoes as
they strike each other or as they encircle the stake
is heard at picnics, county fairs or practically any

place where crowds of people are gathered ‘for
an outing.

Horseshoe pitching was a great national game
before the time of Homer and was very popular
during the time of the Roman empire, so “even
the Greeks had a name for it.”

It is interesting to note that Washington’s sol-
diers when not occupied in fighting the British
amused themselves with horseshoe pitching. “Slip-
per slamming” or “barnyard golf” are popular
names for the homely sport of horseshoe pitching.

Badminton. The popularity of Badminton has
received a tremendous impetus recently because of
its adoption by the Beverly Hills dwellers to whom
the eyes of America frequently turn. Although
relatively new to the American public, it has been
used in this country for some time, the first Bad-
minton club having been formed in New York in

1878. A similar game was
played in the Orient cen—

go back as far as shufiieboard
but which is by no means
new, is tether ball. This game
dates back to 1896 when it
was patented under the name
“Spirapole” by P, B. Cow,
Cheapside, London. It was
first used on shipboard on
the maiden cruise of the
“Dunnegan Castle.” As a
shipboard game the name was
changed to “tether ball” or

62

The Women's Rules and Editorial Com-
mittee of the Women's Athletic Sec-
tion of the American Physical Educa-
tion Association is performing an ex-

ceedingly valuable service in prepar- '

ing through its subcommittees a series
of handbooks on various sports for girls
and women. We are presenting here
some extracts from an article pre-
pared by Miss Postl Chairman of the
Subcommittee on Athletic Games,
whose official handbook. one of the
Spalding Athletic Library series, rec-
reation workers will find very helpful.

turies ago. In India it was
taken up by English army
officers and brought by them
to England where it was
given the name of Badminton
in honor of the Duke of
Gloucester, the name of
whose estate was Badminton.
The first Badminton club in

England was established in
the city of Bath. The game is
(Continued on page 104)

Music on the Playground

There cannot be a well-rounded playground pro-
gram wrthout singing and rhythmic activities.
So here are some suggestions for music making.

By A. D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

girls will like. The little children
will also want to sing some of
the more active of the almost in-
finite number of traditional

ments even on a play-
ground; moments when the

T HERE ARE contemplative mo-

group, whatever its age, falls
naturally in smooth lyrical singing of the sort
that thrives as well around a camp fire. Older
boys and girls, especially the boys, together, are
then in a mood to make harmony, and they will do
so if someone will sing a spiritual or Carry Me
Back to Old Virginity or the like with a good
smooth flow and swing. From improvising har-
mony a group of teen-age boys might go into
learning parts in the simplest of the songs in such
a collection as the C heck Book of the series known
as Ttvire 55 Community Songs, published by C.
C. Birchard and Company of Boston. Or if some
of the boys ‘still have soprano or alto voices, the
Orange Book of the same series will suit them.
The Rose Book of that series is for treble voices
alone, for girls or boys or both. The Hall and Mc-
Creary Company of Chicago also publishes a
series of inexpensive collections for these various
kinds of groups. Simple rounds and descants*
are a very interesting entrance into part-singing
if each singer really listens to the group as a whole
while he sings his own part. For any part-singing
except rounds the leader should be capable of de-
termining correctly which part is best suited to
each person’s voice.

There are times also for very animated sing-
ing, of sea chanteys, cowboy songs, team songs,
hiking ones, accumulative ones like Slovette or
The Tree In the Wood and other good rousers.
The younger children will then want to sing songs
like The Windmill with its pantomimic actions,
and In Poland with its brisk marching rhythm,
both in the National Recreation Association’s
Songs for Informal Singing,
Set I, in which, as in Set II,
there are many other rousing
songs that the older boys and

 

* See Community and Assembly Singing,
a detailed guide, obtainable from
the National Recreation Association
at 60c.

In this article Mr. Zanzig deals prima-
rin with singing, singing games. tolk
dancing. rhythmics and other simple
dancing. Other forms of music for the
playground are. however. mentioned
and reference made to source material.

songs such as are in Fifty Favorite Songs for
Girls and Boys, obtainable for ten cents at Wool-
worth’s. Dramatieed Rhythm Plays by John R.
Richards (A. S. Barnes & Co.), though lacking
in opportunity for spontaneity, has helpful sug-
gestions for making action songs of many an old
familiar song for children. Any singing period
can, of course, admit many kinds of songs, quiet
or animated, the contrasts in the songs and in the
singing of them making not only for greater enjoy-
ment but also for more and more expressive sing-
ing and enlarging experience. But the music play
that seems most characteristic of the playground is
that which calls for a still fuller measure of action.

Singing Games

Singing games we think of, dozens of them, as
natural a mode of play for children, especially
those under ten, as walking is a mode of locomo-
tion. Miss Neva Boyd’s American and English
Games is an especially rich collection of these. If
leaders could only prize sufficiently the value of
free-Howing rhythm in a singing game, the sing-
ing and the motions would not be so heavy as they
usually are. When every beat is given equal
weight, the onward, liberating flow of rhythm,
which is its most enjoyable and most longed-for
quality, is lost. Only as we distinguish between
the light beats and the intenser ones and feel the
undulating forward motion of each phrase as a
whole do we let the singing game give us what we
most desire in it. Let the leader sing it so and
move to it so, and the children will very likely do
likewise.

Encourage children to sing
with the same naturalness and
lightness and ease as they
speak, and with the same rela-
tive stresses on the words arid
syllables. If they will simply

63

64 MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND

speak the words of the game naturally ust once
for the fun of it, without the music, they will be
almost bound to catch the idea and the rhythm
and all the greater freedom and fun that goes with
them. Then if they do not carry these into the
singing, it will be because of bad habit which can

certainly be overcome gradually without any loss ’

of interest, especially well through singing games
new to the children. '

Encourage them also to enjoy the song as well
as, if not more than, the rest of the game, and to
enjoy it with their ears as well as with their
voices. To do this and also to save their voices
from danger of injury, they will need to sing the
song in a proper key, in which the lowest tone will
not go below D or, at the lowest exception, not
below C. This care for having the song in a pro-
per key can be made an interesting part of the
game, to make the latter more enjoyable. The
leader and the children can soon learn to judge by
the quality of the singing as to whether it is suita-
bly pitched or not. Let the children be interested
in judging for themselves so that they will sing
well even when the leader is not around. But
never oppress them with this interest to endanger
the spontaneity of their play. If necessary, the
leader should use a pitch-pipe for the purpose
until her judgment becomes surer. Perhaps the
most frequent cause of harsh, inane and injurious
singing is the common false notion that enthusi-
asm and enjoyment are to be measured only by
loudness. A free, bounding rhythm, even when
accompanied by very light singing, is the fullest
and best token of real enthusiasm. Another cause
of the bad singing is public performance, when
the children are urged to sing loudly in order to be
heard by the entire audience. Children’s play is
not naturally for public performance, anyway, but
if it must be put to that use the more resonant
singing of real enthusiasm, and rhythm with sure
familiarly with all the words, and enforced voices,
may be heard farther and certainly more enjoy-
ably than mere loudness can be.

Adults, and more and more older boys and
girls, it seems, also like singing games and sing-
ing dances, but such as Captain Jinks or Come,
Let Us Be Joyful in Twice 55 Games with Music,
and many another good one in the Handy Kits of
the Cooperative Recreation Service of Delaware,
Ohio, in S kip to My Lou, published by the Girl
Scouts, and in several bulletins issued by the Na-
tional Recreation Association, especially one en-
titled Musical Mixers.

Folk Dancing

If the children or older folk have developed a
sense of the “phrase rhythm,” as has been sug-
gested for the singing games, they will readily
carry it over into folk dancing and enjoy it and
the dancing more and more. The widely-known
collections of folk dances compiled by Mary Wood
Hinman and Elizabeth Burchenal, to be found in
most public libraries, offer a large range of choice
as to the ages and tastes of the dancers. The
simpler of the English country dances and of the
Morris dances, collected by Cecil Sharp and pub-
lished by the H. W. Gray Company, 159 East
48th Street, New York, are suited to boys and
girls of about twelve or over as well as to adults.
Bean Setting and others of the traditional Morris
dances in which sticks are used, or done by men
alone, appeal to boys more readily than do most
other folk dances. New interest in American
square dancing has been growing in many com-
munities.- A thing to remember about folk danc—
ing is that, like every other sport or art, it thrives
best where there is care for doing it well without
loss of spontaneity. Learning more and more
folk dances and doing them better and better has
become a beloved hobby for many people.

Rhythms and Other Simple Dancing

Who has not seen children come bounding out
of school and go skipping down the street? That
is dancing, too. And the mood of it, of most eager '
living, is surely a boon surpassed by no other.
Music can bring it to us, eSpecially to children,
even when that mood has been far away. How
can that natural dancing grow into a mode of play
with music, especially well suited to the play-
ground? Let us say that you have clearly and
gaily in your mind and fingers, or in some other
person’s mind and lingers, such tunes as are in
Folk Songs and Ballads,* Set III, published by
the E. C. Schirmer Music Company of Boston,
and here is a group of children. You say to them
that music is a wonderful thing that is always try-
ing .to say things to us or to tell us something to do.
Sometimes it tells us to skip, and sometimes to
walk or run, or just sit quietly and listen. Then
you play Rosa from that collection and about mid-
way invite the children to clap to it so as to in-
sure their really feeling the life in it. What is it
telling us to do? Off they go, skipping to it.
Then, after a pleasant signal, like the playing or'

 

*_These tunes are also in Sets I and II of Songs for Informal
Smgmg, prekusly mentioned, but these without accompaniments.

MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 65

singing of the ding—dong of bells, has brought the
children back to the piano, you play or sing In
Poland, which has been mentioned. It tells them
to march. But immediately at the close of it you
go back to Rosa. Some of the children go right
on marching as though the music has not changed.
But others skip and you praise them for listening
so well and changing so promptly when the music
changed. The next time the music changes
quickly like that, perhaps all the children, will
change with it. They are learning to listen and to
respond at once and very enjoyably. Now,you
play or sing the Cornish
May Song, also in Folk
Songs and Ballads. What
does it beg us to do? \Ve
run or jog along gain but
comfortably. And so the
children have experienc-
ed fully, though very sim-
ply, three different types
of rhythm, for each of
which there is no end of
fine delightful music into
which they can enter fully
as the days and weeks go
by. Besides- folk songs
arid d a n c e 5 there are
dozens of gems by the
great composers, by Ro-
bert Schumann in his
Album for the Young, by
Beethoven, Schubert,
Grieg or others, present—
ing these same types of
rhythms to be danced to
by the children. That is
a great boon for any child
to have, giving him the
very essence of the full, organic response to music
that many an adult has sought, often in vain,'in
a course or book in music appreciation.

Let us pause a moment to list a few books con-
taining such suitable music. There is. School
Rhythms, compiled by Ethel Robinson and pub-
lished by Clayton F. Summy of Chicago. This
publisher issued also Illusic for the Child World
by Mari Hofer, the second of its three volumes
being best for our present purpose. A. S. Barnes
and Company of New York offers Gertrude
Colby’s Natural Rhythms and Dances, Caroline
Crawford’s Choice Rhythms for Youthful Danc-
ers, and a large“ book by Agnes L. Marsh entitled

 

Dance In. Education. It is the music in these
books that we are now recommending. Phono-
graph records of “music for rhythms” are also
obtainable, and there is singing, violin playing or
drumming Indian-fashion that are also suitable.

N ow back to the children let us point out modes
of going on with such dancing to ever fuller and
more discriminating interest and responsiveness.
we introduce other types of rhythm, for gallop-
ing, swaying, sliding, leaping. The children re-
spond spontaneously also to differences in vol-
ume, as from loud to soft positions of the music,

I

Instrumental music, too, has a place on
the playgroundI as,this scene on one of
the Milwaukee playgrounds will testify

to differences in mood of character, as between
the Soldier’s M arch and Northern Song, both of
them marches in Schumann’s Album for the
Young, to differences in pitch, as when the music
rises a whole octav'e on the word “sweetly” in
Rosa, and to differences in speed, as when the
music slows up or goes faster and the children
rise with it. A gay call to skip or gallop higher
may bring the larger and freer motions for which
we look. Scarves or balloons are also likely to
make for a greater freedom of spirit and fuller

66 MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND

motion. Encouragement may be given also to
dance in two’s or three’s whenever they wish,
then back into a single circle, and into any other
variations they wish that do not cause the chil-
dren to interfere with one another. The leader,
and later a child, might call for such changes, as
is done in a square dance, or a child might act as
leader through her own dancing.

But early in their experience the children
should learn to hear and feel when each phrase. of
the music ends and change direction at that time.
While listening to the C ornish M ay Song, for ex—
ample, they can readily decide when to raise their
hands to tell where each phrase endshas a line in
a poem ends. Then, as in their dancing to it they
turn about at the end of the phrase, they will be
following an impulse that is as old as the oldest
folk dance. In every folk dance there. are these
changes of direction to start each phrase afresh
and often to balance one phrase with another. It
is fun. And once the children are prompt and
free in it, they can vary their dancing still more.
For example, if they dance away in a straight line

for one phrase, and back into the next, we might..::

increase the distance to be covered by each phrase,
thus leading them to make their motions larger
and more energetic. Or we might decrease the
distance, leading them spontaneously to more in
a spiral, or retrace some steps or make other com-
binations to use up the time. We might form
groups of four, five or more children, for which
one child is to be the leader for one phrase, and
another bhild for the next phrase, each choosing
the direction or movement or botli that the group
is to take. But the most valuable and enjoyable
changing of movement is always that which is
due to changes in the music. And this brings us
to the children’s making up of dances in forms
like those of folk dances. This should be a carry-
ing on now of the creativeness that has produced
dances that became the folk dances we enjoy to-
day. ’

Let us bring back Rosa to the children and in-
vite them to make a group dance for it. Any
child who has ideas for it raises his hand and if
called on he tells them to the group. Other ideas
are heard then, or after his are tried out, and a
choice is made. Almost invariably the dancing
suggested for the beginning of Rosa is eight slip-~
ping steps to the left, in a single circle, and then
eight to the right, an idea common to many folk
dances. The music following these two phrases
is different, so the movement must also be dif-

ferent. Very likely it will be four steps toward
the center, four back and then four toward the
center again, the arms and entire body being
eagerly raised for the high note in “sweetly.”
What next? The tune is just like that of the first
two phrases, so the movement should be the same
as at the beginning. Thus, incidentally, the chil—
dren are made much more aware of the design of
the music than they are likely to be in a dance
given them to learn. But they should be en-
couraged, not pressed, to enlarge their “vocabu-
lary”-of movements. The leader might suggest
one now and then that would open new possibili-

ties to their minds.

Besides making dances to folk songs and folk-
dance tunes, the children should make some for
art 'music, as it is called, like the Merry Farmer
and Harvest Song in Schumann’s Album for the
Young, and later for the - Beethoven German
Dances, and some of the Schubert and Brahms
waltzesfr Some lovely simple dances have been
made for the most beloved of the Brahms waltzes,
the one in A flat;

Now, this sort of dancing, up to this point, is
not a difficult enterprise. All it needs is children,
music and an interested leader who need not be a
musician or a trained dancer, though to be one
or both would be a great boon. Her main job is
to behave in such a way as to bring the children
more fully into ’the music, getting herself out of
the way. But she should herself have skipped
and galloped and danced in the other ways sug—
gested, or else be one of the children and grow
with them. Perhaps she should be one of them
anyway, but if she is, she must avoid causing them
to do’ as she does when they should be following
their own impulses and ideas.

We have not gone into the dramatic phases of
this. free sort of dancing, into the rhythmic play of
being a bear, a rabbit or even a rolling, crawling
worm or snake (a non—venomous one) and into
the rhythmic aspects of pantomiming a story. In
the story of the Sleeping Princess, for example,
the procession of the king or queen with their
attendants, the tripping of the fairies, the stomp-
ing bad fairy, the old woman’s spinning, and the
galloping prince are all musical affairs, as are the
sadness of the little princess’ plight and the

'strange quiet of the hundred years’ sleep. The

children should choose the music for each episode
from among a variety of pieces offered them.

(Continued on page 105)

Gardening-—
A Happy

Occupation

for

Children

 

Courtesy Brooklyn Botanic Garden

HE SPRING of the year is here. Soil is being
T turned over in garden beds. Buds are burst-

ing on the trees, and life-giving sap is rising
as food in the trees.

The experience of having a garden all your own
is an educative and developing one, starting with
the garden soil-——to some so dead, to others full of
life and action; with a seed, so insignificant, which
later develops into something living and growing.
From this little strip of garden soil with its flower
and its vegetable seed come lessons of patience. of
exactness, of responsibility, and of pleasure.

The garden is typical of life. It represents one
of those interests that follow one throughout life,
not necessarily in the light of a vocation, but in
the nature of an avocation, helpful, pleasureable
work for leisure’hours. The garden is not just
your little piece of land in whatever town you
happen to be, but it is a travelogue in itself, for
the seeds carry.one_ all over the world. The to-
matoes and marigolds, to South America; the
onions and radishes to the Far East.

Then, too, the subject of botany, which, with
many a person means only gathering so much
knowledge in order to pass an examination, be-
comes a living, everyday experience.

To have a young person's garden mean what it
ought to mean, one does not
start the day of planting, but
long before that; plans are
made, seeds are germinated,
and some seeds are started in-
doors for transplanting into
the garden later; soil is tested
and experimented with ; lessons
are given so that children may

Mrs. Gridley's report of the meeting
on Gardening for Juniors is given a
delightful introduction in a state-
ment by Miss Ellen Eddy Shaw which
we are publishing. Miss Shaw is as-
sociated with the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden which is conducting a most
interesting program tor children.

By ABBIE E. GRIDLEY

Chairmanl Junior Gardening
New York State Federation of Garden Clubs
Foreword by Ellen Eddy Shaw

know how to proceed in the best possible manner
and garden planting will be not a haphazard af—
fair, but an orderly, thoughtful procedure in a
matter which represents both art and science.
The garden ought to represent to a child the pos-
sibility of expressing himself, that is, in express-
ing his own ideas of what he enjoys in beauty and
in charm. If his plan, after consultation, does not
succeed so well outdoors, he himself will know
it. There is nothing so vocal as a garden in its
early stages. The seeds pop up out of the ground;
they show their different attributes early in the
game. We have planted either too closely or too
far apart. We have young weedlings that struggle
in an eternal battle with our seedlings. So there is
a great deal of real study in the garden soil, real
joy. Thus the garden talks to you.

After a young person’s first garden it is a very
excellent thing to let him sum up his experience
and point out the weaknesses in"his own plans.
Perhaps‘he may be interested in just one thing,
as some children are in gourds,
the history of which is most
fascinating and interesting.
From that lead him to other
things in gardening, so that
just one thing does not mean
a garden to him, but many
things. He may like to raise
some strawberries from run-

67

68 GARDENING—A HAPPX OCCUPATION FOR CHILDREN

ners. So the garden turns out to be not only ex-
perimentation but also confirmation, adjustment,
'and in the end may be summed up in a couplet
from \Vordsworth -—-

"He is happiest who hath the power
I To gather wisdom from a flower.”

On March 17th of Flower Show Week, the
Federation of Garden Clubs of New York State
sponsored a conference on gardening for juniors
at the Federation headquarters in New York City.
A large group of enthusiastic junior leaders from
many states, including Texas, were in attendance.
They were people interested in the future welfare
of the younger generation of the country in gen-
eral and deeply concerned with their leisure and
recreation.

A program'covering the field of gardening for
children was arranged by Mrs. Albro Gaylor of
the Nyack Garden Club, a vice—president of the
Federation, and Miss Ellen Eddy Shaw, curator
of elementary education at the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden, with the cooperation of Mrs. William
Crocker, president of the Federation.

“Is junior gardening worth while?” The dis-
cussion of this question was designed to bring out
many phases of the project beginning with the
organization of junior garden clubs, their funda-
mental purposes- and methods of procedure.
Throughout the garden was treated both as a
home and a community project. Mrs. L. L. Mac-
Donald of the Morsemere Garden Club of Yon-
kers told of the success of the home garden proj-
ect in that city. The most satisfactory 'working
units have proved to be groups of sixteen mem-
bers from a generally similar environment and
ranging in age from eight to twelve years. So
popular is the project in Yonkers that there is a
waiting list. Gardening, Mrs. MacDonald pointed
out, hlls a great need for wholesome occupation
among children in their formative years when,
under able leadership, they are directed into wider
horizons of thought and interest. Acquaintance—
ship with nature opens up avenues constructively
recreational.

Miss Miriam Booth of the Cornwall Garden
Club reviewed the work done as a community
project in that city to direct juniors toward gar-
dening and nature interest.

The subject of the relation of the school to
junior work was discussed by Miss Blanche Dur-
gin of the Garden Club of New Jersey, where a

plan of instruction given through the classrooms
of the schools has proved practical and success-
ful. “The desire of the Garden Clubs of New
Jersey in working with the schools is to open a
‘potential garden gate’ to every school child in
New Jersey; to teach him to plant a garden, to
care for it himself, to learn to live with it and
thereby gain a basic knowledge of the worthwhile-
ness of the handiwork of the Mighty Gardener.”
Toward this end the New Jersey Garden Club is
publishing a handbook providing fascinating and
entertaining methods for carrying out the plan.
Mrs. John W. Draper, who for years has held
the office of conservation chairman and who is a
vice-president of the Federation, discussed the
“Conservation Approach.” Her theme covered the
evolution of seeds, of the caterpillar and of the
child. She suggested it might be well if a child
could begin by choosing its parents. “There is in

, our rush of life too little time spent in directing

our children to look for the finer things each child
needs in growth. Let him have his garden and
express himself in his own way—express his own
originality.” _
“Leadership,” said Miss Wilhelmina Gerard of
the Elmira Garden Club in discussing the topic,

“Counselor Selection and Training, 15 one of
the most important phases of the movement.” In

her opinion it is well to have two counselors for ,

each junior group and a training class for coun-
selors where junior work is discussed and planned,
and a continuous program carried out. The sys-
tem used in Elmira provides that there shall be
meetings twice a month, one held in each school
with the counselors and the other in a central
place where some special subject is explained,
such as soil management, preparation of seed fiats
or flower arrangement. Contact with parent-
teacher associations, it was pointed out, is often
fruitful in finding counselors.

The subject of awards and badges was discuss-
ed by Miss Frances Miner, garden teacher at the
Brooklyn Botanic Garden, who said that as the
result of many years of experience in promoting
gardening among children the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden has a carefully worked out system of
awards. These are non-competitive and are in
reality achievement badges or awards, each child
competing with himself, so to speak, and receiv-

‘ing an award for his progress. All the gardening

is done in groups of boys or of girls on the basis
that such group activity stimulates interest. For
the first three steps in gardening covering definite

GARDENING—.4 HAPPY OCCUPATION FOR CHILDREN

projects there are three merit pins, one for each
step completed. The pin, costing about I5 cents,
is paid for by the individual after he has earned
the right to wear it. The next award is a bronze
medal. Then comes a silver medal, and finally a
silver cup for particular achievement.

Miss Shaw gave a resume of junior gardening
which inspired in each leader a desire to guide
juniors to observe the out-of—doors, to know and
love fiowers and plant life, to learn of the inter-
relation of these with animal life, to see and love
the birds and the bees, and to know the uses of
living things, finding joy and happiness through
these channels.

All garden clubs were urged to participate in
the celebration of the sesquicentennial of the Con-
stitution of the United States through the tree
planting program which will include junior gar-
deners. Supplementing the planting of the trees,
pilgrimages may be arranged to observe and study
trees. It was urged that children be guided to

plant trees and grow up with them. It takes ap- ’

proximately a hundred years to mature a crop of
hard maples and trees of this type. Cooperation
on the part of all is essential if there are to be
trees for the_ coming generations.

Some Values of Junior Gardening

Junior gardening is of such importance that it
must be approached thoughtfully. Leaders must
first take stock of the times, looking backward,
then ahead to future horizons. Two particular
images arise in the mind—the children and the
country they will inherit. Garden club members
have both as their trust. How well are they being
administered? ,

There is in each individual an elementary desire
for expression through some particular avenue
which may be called talent. With this comes the
choice of life occupation if the right groove is
found.

All men crave recreation but not all the same
type of activity, some preferring to originate and
create and to be busily occupied. Educational
systems of today have not met the needs squarely
by training each .child to‘ fill the niche in life for
which his temperament and mentality fit him. Ex-
amples of misfit education come to light daily.
Normal and natural education should be of a type
which teaches one to see, appreciate and use
nature’s gifts for sustaining and beautifying life.
The garden club movement is a step toward pro-
moting this in providing for juniors as well as

69

adults the stimulus and means of enriching life
with beauty and expression. '

Gardening seems most nearly to approach the
ideal of “education of body and soul.” Contact
with the soil brings health, peace, beauty, com-
panionship, discipline and a means of expression
developing initiative and originality.

Curiosity is an important trait in children. It
is this quality, which, if nurtured along right
avenues, helps to build soul and character. All
children are perpetually asking why and how.
There is need for leaders who have the interest of
the child at heart and who are at the same time
endowed with the gift of interesting them and
have a working knowledge of their subject. Upon
such leadership the future of our country depends.
There must be leaders who can see and tell of
“tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
sermons in stones, and good in everything.”

Nature speaks to those who listen. She makes
her appeal through form, color, sound and frag-
rance. She holds herself modestly alluring, but
because of distractions calling more loudly, man
is prone to pass her blindly by.

Any sincere gardener may enrich the lives of
juniors by teaching them to love branch, bird and
bee, and to respect the sacredness of life, and by
filling their souls with spiritual food. Let the
pageantry of seasonal beauty engage their‘minds
and hands. Teach them to protect it all. '

Group activities may be begun with the five-
year-olds before minds and lives are crowded
with other things. By keeping contact with nature
on through life there will be built a more lasting
enjoyment for the individual and a happier

citizenry.

Sources of Information

In the following publications will be found pro-
grams for junior garden clubs which have proven
workable:

Interesting Our Children in Nature (30 cents}
Miss Blanche P. 'Durgin, I4 South Munn
Avenue, East Orange, New Jersey
H are to Organize Junior Garden Clubs (free)
Junior Garden Clubs of America, care of Bet-
ter Homes and Gardens, Des Moines, Iowa
Flower Games (15 cents)
Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 W'ashington
Avenue, Brooklyn, New York

The Junior Garden Club of America issues at
the cost of printing a list of useful leaflets cover-
ing nearly all phases of the subject. There are spe—
cially prepared illustrated lectures for children.

" EY! Take those boxes
H outa there!” yelled the
truck driver to a num—
ber of youngsters romping on
a play street. He raced his en-
gine and honked his horn, nos—
ing his gigantic produce truck
dangerously near an impro-
vised barricade of packing
boxes piled across the entrance
to a side street leading from
one of the main New York
arteries.

“VVadaya mean, ‘take dem boxes away’?” re-
torted the leader, “You can’t come in here. Dis is
a play street, ain’t it ?”

Quite true! This was a play street—and a su-
pervised play street, at that—on Friday. But to—
day is Saturday! And on Saturday it isn’t a play
street. In fact, the small movable sign on the
stanchion post has been rolled away. But the
youngsters aren’t old enough to understand the
why and wherefore ’of city ordinances. On some
days they are allowed, even encouraged “by de
guys wot run it,” to play at will on the street. But
at other times they lind their games disturbed by
passing traflic. The inconsistency of a plan which
rules playing children on and off a street, accord—
ing to scheduled plans formulated in some main
administration office, fails at the outset to accom-
plish its initial purpose—that of making streets
as safe as possible for play.

Every day is play day for a child—Saturday
and Sunday not excepted! And, naturally enough,
on the days when the streets are not supervised
children expect the same freedom in the streets
that they have on other days. On supervised days
they are taught to help keep traffic off the street.
In some places they select monitors who wear
armbands and whose oflice it is to warn off in-
vading traffic and turn it aside. Upon occasions
they have seen their elders pile boxes from the
neighborhood grocery store across the street en-
trance as a reminder to grown-ups who can’t re-
member that this is their play street. The child
mind-argues quite logically that on days when
there is no supervision, the packing boxes are
needed more than ever! ‘

By WILLIAM M. WENER

Director .
Home Thrift Association Settlement
Yorkville. New York City

Do play streets defeat the
purpose for which they were

intended? We hOpe that you
will give us your Opinion.

Play Streets: Assets or Liabilities?

Thus, the play street, in—
augurated by well—meaning
people who perhaps under-
stand little of the Working of
the child’s mind, defeats its
own main purpose by teach-
ing children a wrong behavior
pattern.

“Keep the children off the
city streets” has been the con-
tinual plea of the public— the
command to social workers.
And then these same well-
meaning optimists proceed blithely to promote a
movement toward making the street safe, and suc-
ceed only in making it more attractive for children
to use as a playground! For the streets segre—
gated on certain days for play are marked off with
white paint to provide courts for paddle tennis,
shuffleboard, quoits and various other low or-
ganization games. In addition, leaders are sent to
help the children organize their games, for which
balls, bats, racquets, marbles and tops are supplied.

In other words, the play streets are accomplish-
ing exactly the opposite of what they were origi-
nally intended to do. They are accustoming the
children to playing on the streets. They are teach-
ing them to consider the street their habitual, nat-
ural—even preferred—playground. Here is a de—
liberate effort to organize street playing. Thou-
sands of dollars are spent annually in maintaining
the equipment, Upkeep and personnel of the play
streets, only to defeat blatantly the original pur-
pose for which they were intended.

Asset or liability? Which?

In many districts of the city a seemingly unex-
plained paradox exists. Well-equipped play-
grounds appear to be sparsely attended while
nearby play streets are teeming with children.
Some critics of organized playgrounds contend
that this phenomena is due to a lack of sufficiently
well—trained personnel in attendance at the or-

' ganized playgrounds to interest the children in

worth while programs of activity. If this is so,
why not utilize the play street leaders—those now
conducting play streets—to increase the personnel
of existing playgrounds? Why not bend the same

PLAY STREETS: ASSETS OR LIABILITIES? 71

effort and spend the same amount of money in
augmenting the number of existing playgrounds?

The street gang, long the bugaboo of the socially
conscious citizen, is merely the abnormal out-
growth of a very normal instinct, modern psy-
chologists point out. “Ganging up” will go on
wherever children gather together _for play ac-
tivity. Just as in school, there will always be
cliques who naturally gravitate toward their in-
dividual leaders. All humanity tends to band itself
together in groups under differentiated leadership,
adult as well as adolescent. The so-called under—
privileged child is no exception. His fraternity
may not wear a pearl and sapphire studded pin to
denote membership. The members may win their
bids by lists and pledge allegiance in a trading
quota of “G—Men” cards, instead of initiation by
beer and pretzels. But social consciousness and
social distinctions are quite as keen in the “gang—
ing up” of the boys and girls of the city streets
as they are in the more elective and “tapping”
systems among the collegiate or polo-playing
fraternity.

On any city street, five or six boys will un-
consciously gang up with a leader. It may be the
smallest lad—or the “dumbest.” It is not always
physical or mental prowess that makes a leader,
but rather some inborn instinct for leadership
which emerges to express itself in that certain
'child when he is with those of similar age and
class. He may not even know he has it. At first
the others may not realize he is a leader. Or
conversely, they will not even know they are being
led. But let an adult come into the group and
suggest forming a “club.” All boys are natural
joiners—and an idea of a club hits them right be—
tween the eyes: Well, that’s the lad they will pick
for their president every time.

That the play street fosters the growth_of the
vicious street gang is a
statement highly unfair,
perhaps, in bare statement
of fact. But, that it tends to
bring back the very thing
for which it was organized
to combat, is not an impos-
sible conception. For who is
to “supervise” the children’s
play on the days when the
play street has ceased to be
a play street and becomes,
once more, ust another ordi-
nary busy traffic lane?

The subiect ‘of play streets is a contrg-
versial one. and there are people who Will
not share Mr. Wener's conviction that such

streets are more of a liability than an as-

set. RECREATION has in the past published
articles presenting the viewpoints of advo-

cates of play streets, and will be glad to
receive comments on this article for later

publication. The most recent and compre-

° hensive presentation of the values of play
streetsl their organization and conductI IS

to be found in a book iust off the press—
"Play Streets and Their Use for Recreational
Purposes" by Edward V. Nortonl published
by A.S. Barnes 8: Company. New York City.

How about the streets which have been aban—
doned as play streets? ’A certain percentage each
year are run for a short period and then, for one
of a number of reasons, closed again to children’s
play.

How about the probability of the play streets
setting a mistaken example of play behavior for
children who are not fortunate enough to live on
a play street?

The obvious argument, promulgated by those
who consider play streets efficacious, that children
will play on the streets anyway, so why not make
the street play safer and more pleasant—is, after
all, a hedging attitude to take. Very obviously the
play street is “safer” only in degree—not in fact.
“Penny wise and pound foolish,” it is like spend-
ing money to patch and repatch an old pair of
pants when a slightly larger investment, taken
from funds set aside for a clothing allotment,
would buy a new pair! For the child is en—
couraged in a false set of values, a distorted, in—
stead of an increased, community esprit de corps
is fostered. A deceptive sense of security be-
comes a real hazard to the child’s safety and life
when he duplicates his play activity on ordinary,
unregulated streets.

All thoroughfares cannot be play streets all the
time. If they were, then they would be play-
grounds! And some streets can never be play
streets. What effect is this going to have on the
observing child?

For instance, Johnny lives on a congested street
that is never a play street. But he knows that
Tommy, three blocks away, plays out in front of
his house. If Tommy can play in front of his own
house and have a play street, why can’t Johnny?

The adult may argue, “why doesn’t Johnny go

’and play on Tommy’s street?” The adult who

says this doesn’t know the habits of street chil—
dren. There may be a line
drawn between Tommy’s
street and Johnny’s street-—
a line drawn in barriers that
no adult, no play street su—
pervisor, no child can break,
nor would want to break.
There may be a dozen rea-
sons, all silly to an_aduIt,
why Johnny isn’t welcome
to play in Tommy’s block.
The two boys may easily
attend the same public
school. But this doesn’t nec-

72 . PLAY STREETS: ASSETS OR LIABILITIES?

essarily mean they will choose to spend their play
hours together. It may be a rivalry no adult may
comprehend, but it will preclude the mixing of
play hours for Johnny and Tommy on a play
street.

In one New York neighborhood recently such

a situation arose. A gang from a neighboring-

street who didn’t have a play street decided to
take advantage of their rivals’ good luck. They
arrived at the entrance—half a dozen youngsters,
ranging from nine to six years of age. They
were warned off. The play street gang held their
ground. That was their street and there were
plenty of boys and girls in the block who were
welcome. The invaders left, but not for long.
They returned, this time their numbers doubled.
They came, hauling their improvised roller-skate
carts. For the second time they were repulsed.
But this time they had come prepared. From the
soap-boxes mounted on wheels appeared sticks
and stones and a few milk bottles. Brave artillery
in a brave cause! When milk and pop bottles are
redeemable at any grocery store for two, three and
five cents! Many a stick of candy or chew of gum
' was sacrificed that day in a battle for a play
street!

It didn’t take the play street gang long to get
the idea. Leaving some of their number on guard,
others went home. They came back with their
wooden pistols, crudely fashioned of two sticks
and a spool. By this time the girls had decided it
wasn’t just a man’s fight. Ammunition gone, the
invaders retreated, only to return again with
loaded carts and increased boy power.

At this stage the. play street gang had organized.
They had scattered and hidden in doorways and
behind ash cans along the route. They had sling-
shots this time—and some coal. Again they beat
off the intruders. And this time the interlopers
didn’t return. Calm reigned on the play street
once more! Ordinarily there was a supervisor on
that play street. But this particular day wasn’t a
“supervised” day!

Once more the play street had proved its in—
efficacy in defeating one of the evils for which it
was introduced. In fact, it had inspired the very
combative Spirit of anti-social ganging up which
it was so hopefully inaugurated to dispel. For the
original idea of the play street was to give the
children in districts where there was no available
public playground a safe, supervised play area—-
a play area at their own doorsteps where they
might be under the parental eye.

The play street fosters a wrong behavior pat-
tern in the child’s mind. He takes no heed of
passing traffic. Haven’t the “cops” closed off the
street for his special benefit? Hasn’t he been given
priority right to play there? Hasn’t the gang been
told it may play there without intervention?
Hasn’t it, been encouraged and pursuaded to take
part in the competitive tournaments and handi-
craft classes organized in the streets and on the
sidewalks? The child gets used to thinking of his
street as a closed street.

Of course it is impossible to bar all traffic.
When the play streets were first opened, a brave
attempt was made. A few summons were given
in a desultory fashion. Even a few lines were
handed out to those who ignored the play street
signs. But there are the residents in the block
who have cars. Their guests who drive, from a
distance perhaps, are unfamiliar with the pro-
visions made for the children. There are busi-
ness men who must have deliveries made. There
are very few congested streets that do not have
their small stores in the block. The residents cer-
tainly cannot be deprived of the privilege of park-
ing their own cars before their own doors! Or
could they be, if the job of providing safe play
streets were really well done? They do it in Eng-
land by renting from property owners at the play
street entrances permission to run a chain across
the street. But the majority of English towns
and cities have their delivery alleys at the rear.
In New York City it is a question whether modern
business methods would permit of that without a
great clamor of “hindering business” or many
other similar objections being raised. And who
could say that they would not be entirely within

their rights to make a demand for uninterrupted
and unrestricted trade?

Children get accustomed to darting in and out
from behind parked cars without a care for ap-
proaching traffic. There isn’t supposed to be any
traffic! But how about building up careless pedes—
trian habits which will prevail when the child is
not on the play street—or even when he is playing
on a street that isn’t a play street, because it
doesn’t happen to be the right day?

Statistics show that most of the motor acci—
dents from which children suffer occur from their
running out from behind parked cars into the
path of an approaching vehicle. Certainly it is
unW1se to encourage a city child in such rank

(Continued 01; {Jaye 107)

New Horizons

for

Camping

The American Camping Associa-
tion. on February 4. 5 and 6. I937.
held its fourteenth annual conven-
tion at Detroit. Michigan. William
G. Robinson. District Representa-
tive. National Recreation Associa-
tion. who attended the meetings,
tells here of some of the emphases.

 

Courtesy Luther Gulick Camps, South Casco, Maine

HERE was a familiar sound to recreation work-
T ers in much that was said at the fourteenth an-

nual 'Convention of the American Camping
Association, at Detroit, February 4, 5 and 6, 1937.
The emphasis on skilled leadership, the question
of motivation in activities, the distinction between
guidance and bossing, the problems of safety, and
the details of such program material as dramatics,
music and nature study, contained much material
to keep all in mind of the fact that camping is a
great field of recreation. The story of the Na-
tional Park Service in its development of camps
was told to the convention by Julian Salomon.
Howard W. Oxley told of the CCC Camps, and
Munroe Smith of the Youth Hostels.

One note of public recreation gatherings was
absent—references to finances. For this conven-
tion represented very largely the private boys’ and
girls’ camps supported by fees, with a generous
number of camp authorities and workers from
Y. M. C. A.’s and Y. W. C. A.’s, Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts and Camp Fire Girl's. There may have
been some connection between the small number
of’ representatives of public recreation depart-
ments and their total absence from any place on
the program or among the officials of the conven-

tion. Although the theme of the convention was,
“New Horizons for Camping,” municipal camps
did not appear on the horizon. They did appear
in some of the addresses. M r. Salomon of course
was referring to public camps and particularly
interesting was his description of the functioning
of Camp Councils in Pittsburgh and Washington
with their study of the needs of their cities.

Dr. H. S. Dimock, speaking on the subject,

- “Studies of Standards in Camping,” insisted the

camps must take themselves seriously as educa—
tional enterprises, and said that in spite of lack of
standards, in too many cases, and of a general in-
dividualistic trend, they possessed an essential
unity that made possible the formulation of desir-
able practices, and that they had much to learn
from the fields of education and recreation as well
as other professions and sciences. He told of well
attended three-day institutes in Chicago at which
camp leaders, in the appraisal frame of mind and
emphasizing educational methods and procedures,
discussed all phases of camping from staff quali—
fications to safety measures.

Along the same general lines was the descrip-
tion, by W. Thomas McCullough, of theiCleve-
land Camp Council, which forms a center for the

73

74 NEW HORIZONS FOR CAMPING

exchange of information, a focus for interpreta—
tion and has an advisory function. Membership
in the Council requires minimum standards and
through mutual helpfulness, much advance has
been made.

There was a charm and a. reality about what

Fay Welch had to say on the “Values of Living I

in the Wilderness,” that made this listener long
to visit his New England camp. Naming such
objectives as the enrichment of the inner life, the
socializing values, and the understanding of such
basic natural phenomena as droughts, floods, for-
est fires, drainage and vegetation effects, Mr.
W elch illustrated, not only in his talk but with
most attractive moving pictures, the camp activi-
ties that develop this understanding. Trips formal
and informal, museums with ever—changing con-
tents, photography, a weather station, nature
games and nature stories were some of the ac—
tivities described. '

A reasonable and easily comprehended treat—
ment of the relation of camping to mental health

 

Courtesy Luther Guh‘ck Camps, South Casca, Maine

was given by Dr. E. Lee Vincent of the Merrill-
Palmer School. Defining what she meant by
literacy in the physical and emotional as well as
the intellectual sense, Dr. Vincent gave most of
her attention to the emotional values in camping,
its opportunities for helping the “skill hungry,”
for teaching naturally and for inculcating appre—
ciation of simple things. Above all she empha-
sized its values in developing social skills, real
friendships, ability to face success and failure, and
the opportunity for campers to find resources in
themselves—the ability to be alone. Emotions, she
said, were to be controlled, but not to be feared;
were necessary and sources of pride.

In two inspiring addresses Eduard C. Linde- I
man brought to the camp leaders a broad philoso—
phy of their relation to social changes and a series
of challenging questions as to their part in na-
tional cultural development. Relating camping to
the leisure time held, Mr. Lindeman said the F ed-
eral government had definitely entered that field

(Continued on page 107)

h i
.'
.

  

HOR'I‘ TERM, in-town or near-town camping is
S increasingly being recognized as a suitable

and integral part of a summer recreation pro-
gram for children. Reports from a number of
communities and institutions reveal that these
camps include not only the already familiarf‘day
qamp” but also over—night camps and five-day
“Monday to Saturday” camps. Administration,
location and the group served differ greatly in the
various communities and institutions because of
varying needs, facilities and funds.

For Mothers and Children

Oglebay Institute of Wheeling, West Virginia,
conducts a playground day camp serving two
groups—children and mothers with small children.

Inaugurated in 1929, the camp serves each
season some 3,000 children under twelve from
playgrounds, orphanages and settlements. The
city Recreation Department has the entire respon-
sibility of choosing the children who attend the
camp. Each day from sixty to seventy of them
are given free transportation to the camp in
buses and are provided with a half-pint of milk
by the Institute.

Arriving in the morning at Picnic Site No. I,
the location of the camp in the park, the children
embark on a full day of camp adventures under
the leadership and care of a director and two as-
sistants, a practical nurse, the Institute naturalist
and his assistants, and a number of volunteer
leaders.

Following the ceremony of flag raising, a varied
program is offered. There are games, movies,-a
trip through the museum and gardens, pony rides
and nature activities including an Explorer’s
Club for children particularly interested in nature.
There is ample time and opportunity for wading
in the brook, playing on the grass and climbing
trees, for many of the children have little or no
chance for such activities at home. At four o’clock

 

i 5. 

Short Term Camping

Camping "by the day" and other varia-
tions of the camp theme each year add

new interest to the playground program

camp closes and the children reluctantly leave for
home.

In 1931 there was inaugurated a “Mothers’ Va-
cation Day,” a day on which mothers come to
camp with their small children. For the past two
years two days a week have been set aside for
this group. Children invite their own mothers
and young brothers and sisters for these days,
and the camp is moved to Point Cottage adjoining
the playground day camp. The smaller children
are cared for in the day nursery by a nurse and
her assistant. There are‘ games and story-telling
for the other children, and for the mothers, a
nature field trip, a visit to the museums, games,
craft, singing and a trip to the gardens where
each mother may pick a bouquet to take home.
For many mothers this is the only vacation from
home during the entire year.

The staff, beside the director, is made up of
volunteers and workers from the WPA.

A Day Camp for Boys

A tranquil section of a city park in Houston,
Texas, became a camping ground for 164 boys on
successive Thursdays in August of last year. The
Council of Social Agencies had gone on record as
favoring a camp experience of at least a day for
every boy in the city free of charge and the proj-
ect was launched. .

The camp was run six Thursdays in all, the fll‘St
two being directed by the Houston Recreation De-
partment, and the remainder by the Boy Scouts
and the Y.M.C;A. Boys over ten were eligible.

The program started at one o’clock and con-
tinued until nine at night, the boys bringing their
“nose bag” suppers with them from home. The
Boy Scouts conducted the opening flag raising and
immediately afterwards the boys were divided into ,
groups of ten with an adult leader assigned to

each group. Each group took the name of an
Indian tribe and elected a chief and assistant chief

75

\

76 SHORT TERM CAMPING

and made up a tribal yell for purposes of identi-
fication. Having become Indians, all the tribes
were taken to the museum and 200. The tribes
then met together and the rest of the program
for the day was explained.

A nature hunt was scheduled—a cross between a

scavenger hunt and a treasure hunt. The “finds” '

were laid out in original designs. Then followed
games and athletics including soft ball, volley ball,
paddle tennis and tumbling, organized on the
basis of inter—tribal competition. Woodcraft, wood
carving and coping saw work were offered during
the whole afternoon.

Supper came at 6:30, then flag lowering and
dual contests until time for the evening fire. The
evening lire program lasted nearly two hours with
songs, games, stunts, stories and competitive
cheering on the program. “Taps” concluded the
program and day filled with adventure at camp.

“Summer Home Camping”

Camp Y omawha, run as a “summer home
camp,” by the Young Men’s and Women’s He—
brew Association of Washington Heights, New
York City, may lack hills and trees and streams
on its camp site, but it has offered a real day camp
program for six years in its home in a city build-
ing. It is the purpose of its staff to carry on the
educational aims of the school during the summer
months and to provide for city—bound children as
much of an outdoor camp experience as possible.

The camp is open for boys and girls six to
fourteen years of age on a cost basis of $35 for
eight weeks, $20 for a half season, or $5 a week.
Last year out of 124 children attending the camp,
twenty-nine had scholarships. This fee covers the
cost of transportation (to pool and trips), swim-
ming in a private pool, lunches, and staff salaries.

Each child is examined by the camp physician
upon joining the camp and conferences are held
with parents. Every attempt is made to make the
program as “campy” and informal as possible.
The staff members are “counselors” and are called
by their first names.

Camp opens at nine in the morning and closes
at four in the afternoon. The hours between
those times are filled with active and quiet events
suited to the various age groupings— Midgets,
Juniors, Intermediates and Seniors. Music, dra-
matics, hobby groups, handcraft, swimming
(daily) and dancing play an important part in
the program, but nature and outdoor activities,
an integral part of a camp program, are stressed

particularly and are carried out on the roof, in
the park, and on trips afield.

Camping from “Noon to Noon”

The “Happy Days Camp” of the Akron, Ohio,
Recreation Commission and Board of Education
is located in a park, a part of the Metropolitan
Park Plan just eight miles from the center of the
city. It serves all children who attend the summer
playgrounds.

The children remain in camp for twenty-four
hours—from noon to noon—-—-boys and girls at-
tending on alternate days with approximately fifty

'in a group. They bring their own food and

blankets.

The Recreation Department provides cots,
transportation, supervisors and chaperones, and
administers a program including swimming, nature
study, hiking, handcraft and personal hygiene.

‘In 1936 over 1,600 children spent a day at camp.

A Camp for Underprivileged Children

The camp which the Recreation Division of
the Park Department of Springfield, Massachu-
setts, conducts is for underprivileged children of
the City Welfare, Family Welfare and Soldiers’
Relief families. It is run for a period of eight
weeks, "four weeks for boys and four for girls.
starting the Monday following the Fourth of July
and lasting through August. Each child is al-
lowed live days at camp —— Monday through
Saturday.

The camp, which accommodates ninety-eight
children, is situated three miles from the center
of the city on the shores of a large lake. There
are fourteen cabins with eight beds in each. A
small swimming pool and shower baths and an
athletic field for games are among the facilities.
Blankets, pillows and soap and towels are all pro-
vided. In fact, the youngsters are not required
to bring anything to camp except clothing.

The past summer (1936) there were 918 chil—
dren in camp, 470 boys and 448 girls, represent-
ing thirty—one different nationalities. The average
gain in weight was two and a half pounds al-,
though one boy gained seven pounds and one girl
seven.

The Belleville Recreation Camp

From an experiment in municipal camping in
1931 involving twelve boys and borrowed equip-
ment, the Belleville Recreation Camp of the Rec-
reation Commission of Belleville, New Jersey,

SHORT TERM CAMPING 77

has grown into a full-fledged camp. In 1936 it
boasted six army tents with floors, a screened and
electrically lighted dining hall and a swimming
pool. Two hundred and eighty children from
seven to fourteen years were enrolled during the
summer season, coming to camp in small groups
on Monday and leaving on Saturday. Boys and
girls are allotted separate periods. Adults use
the camp over the week-ends. All groups are ex-
amined by the town nurse before attending camp.

An allocation of $700 by the Town Commission
for food and donations from the Rotary and Lions
Clubs and the assistance of the WPA and volun-
teers made it possible to run the camp free of
charge for the children of distressed families in
Belleville.

The program includes nature study, story—tell-
ing, camp. craft, handcraft, swimming, hikes,
games and sports, singing and first aid.

Overnight Camping on the Playground

Last summer the Department of Public Works
of Rome, New York, conducted a unique experi—
ment in overnight camping which proved to be
one of the most effective activities sponsored by
the department in focusing public attention on
what could be done on a playground.

\Villiam L. Koch, Superintendent of Play-
grounds, decided that though a summer camp was
out of the question it should be possible to ar-
range for a limited camp experience which the
children of the playgrounds could enjoy at little
expense. A program of overnight camping on the
playgrounds was the result. The Department was
fortunate in having a suitable camp director in an
individual working on a TERA playground proj-
ect. With the leadership problem solved, the next
step was an appeal through the newspapers for
tents. The response was immediate and contribu-
tions poured in until there was an abundant sup—
ply of tents from pup tents to those of a circus

vintage! Some of the children made their own
tents.

~ Opening night found the camp filled to ca-
pacity. A number of fathers spent the first night
in camp with their boys. Several workers served
as tent leaders.

Little equipment outside of the tents was neces—
sary. The toilet facilities of the shelter house
were used, and the first aid kits available on all the
playgrounds were on call to take care of any minor
accidents. It was necessary to provide a large

container for drinking water. Wood for the camp
tires ceased to be a problem when permission was

. secured to use wood which a near-by farmer

donated.

Each night there was a camp fire program. In
writing of this activity, Mr. Koch says: “The pro-
grams need not be involved nor elaborate each
night, but once or twice during the week leaders
in the life of the community can be called in to
give information and educational talks. We were
able to call on Boy and Girl Scouts for programs.
One troop of Boy Scouts had for its leader a man
versed in Indian lore. This troop had been train-
ed in the rituals and dances of several tribes and
was able to put on a worthwhile program at sev-
eral camps. The Chief of Police spent one eve-
ning in each camp and was able to create a friend-
lier attitude between the boys in the camp by dis-
pelling the erroneous idea that a policeman is a nat-
ural enemy, saying that he is really a protector

and friend.”

The boys’ camp was so popular that the girls
decided that they, too, would like to have a period
set aside for them. This was done after contacts
were made to determine how public Opinion would
react to such an experiment. It was found that
much the same organization as was used for the
boys would serve for the girls’ camp. It was felt
wise to have two responsible men stay in the camp
to avoid any possible danger of disturbance by

hoodlums.

“The program is not possible,” says Mr. Koch,
“unless the leaders in charge are willing to work
just a bit harder than the average playground
leader, especially in the early stages. It does pay
big dividends to a community. The program may
not carry over when the_novelty ‘wears off but
when that happens we hope to be prepared to
take the children down new and interesting
avenues of experience.”

“Every effort should be made to find a day
camp site that has an atmosphere of the woods.
The beauty of a camp depends upon the woods,
mountains, rocks, flowers, meadows and waters
that surround it. Some wooded land and some
level ground are desirable. Both sun and shade
are needed. The site should provide opportuni-
ties for nature study, exploring, handicraft, and,
if possible, swimming, canoeing and boating. A -
site with porous sand or gravelly subsoil is pref-
erable.”—-——From Girl Scout Day Camps.

HE STUDY of nature lore

may be absorbing or bor-

ing as a leisure pastime. .It
is absorbing for those who
have learned that it offers ad-
venture, companionship and
discovery. It is boring for
those who know not how to go
about enjoying nature or sharing her many bene-
fits and pleasures. '

It is not always the fault of the child when he
shows no interest in nature. Many times he is
reared on tales of snakes, vampires and other sup-
posedly hideous creatures that cause him to fear
wild things. Often he is the child of parents who
are not interested in natural lore themselves and
fail to encourage the boy in that field. Today we
find many men professing an ardent interest in
nature, but their interest is abstract and passive.

' No one can appreciate the lack of interest 'in
nature lore better than one who has conducted
classes in nature study at a summer camp, and I
was not surprised when only two boys registered
for my group on the opening day of camp. The
camp director was kind enough to loan me his
campcraft class for the first day. The next morn-
ing, when I called the roll for a hike, I had the
largest class in camp!

I took care, on that first day, not to mention
one scientific fact. I asked no one to identify a
tree or a fiower. None of the boys was required
to listen for bird calls. A few weeks later the
entire class were doing those very things—and
were enjoying them! That first morning I asked
the boys to hunt for turtles and frogs. The turtles
were for the camp aquarium and the frogs were
for the snakes which, I promised the boys, we
were to catch alive at a future date. I heaved a
great sigh of relief when the
boys went at their work with
sudden interest and enthusiasm.

 

By BILLY L. BENNETT

Boys' Department. Y. M. C. A.
Muskegon. Michigan

Nature study goes beyond jars of

truly fascinated by the thought
of catching a wild creature
alive. I have never departed
from that form of approach in
my nature work with boys.
While I do not always use a
snake cage to sell my business
to students, I always get some-
thing tangible as a starter. It may be a live rodent
in a cage, an ant colony, or a box of silkworms,
but it serves as a moving, living article from
nature’s wonderland.

Avoid Technicalities!

If you want your son or your student to learn
to enjoy nature, be sure that you don’t start him
out on a technical basis. There will besufficient
time for more organized and scientific study after
he has learned the more entertaining side of nature
study. The first thing I do is to drop the term,
“nature study,” for it reminds the child of work
and school. Nature lore and woodcraft both mean
the same thing as does nature study, but their
psychological appeal is much greater. Don’t make
the child believe that an interest in nature and
wild life is a duty, a responsibility. It is, rather,
a heritage, the privilege of every man. Henry
Van_Dyke tells us that the mountains are free.
So it is with all natural terrains. The plains, the
forests, the rivers, the swamps—all are free and
for us to enjoy and understand. But how—we
have often asked ourselves—shall we start?

Ways to Start

There are two ways to start. One is to secure
a copy of a standard natural history reference and
dig in. Another method is to read a book of ex-
citing animal stories or adventures of men who
walk in the wilds. I have found
that if one cares to maintain his
interest in the out-of—doors

It was my mention of snakes
that won the boys to my side.
The prospect of keeping some
living reptiles in camp appealed
to them immediately. Even
those who feared snakes were

78

preservatives and identification
charts. If you're at camp it may
mean the fun of cruising along
weedy banks and poking under
logs and lily pads for frogs; of
hunting turtles and learning about
animalsI trees and insects by
coming to know them intimately.

starting on the latter course is
preferable. I usually relied on a
few Indian legends and the
story of a lonely trapper and his
dog in the Canadian woods to
get my boys-into the spirit of
(Continued on page 108)

 

VERY BOYOR GIRL, regard-
less of financial circum—
stances, has the oppor-

tunity of camping out when
the Recreation Department conducts a well-or-
ganized overnight camp. It brings to every child
an opportunity to know the joy of sleeping under
a ceiling of stars, a way to gain a deeper apprecia-
tion of the wonders of nature, a chance to learn
to adjust himself to rules and routine so necessary
in.the intimate life of the camp, and a means of
understanding the importance of his own self-re-
liance in doing for himself as well as caring for
the welfare of others.

The fact that no child need be excluded for lack
of money to pay camp fees or other expenses in
itself justifies overnight camping as a part of the
regular summer program. An overnight excur-
sion will in no way conflict with other camps
already being conducted, but in most cases will
make more complete the usual summer camping
program.

Albany is a small suburban community adja—
cent to metropolitan Berkeley and Oakland, and

forty—five minutes from San Francisco. Albany '

has its own Y.M.C.A. annual summer camp for

By ARTHUR J. KIRKPATRICK

Director of Recreation
ValleioI California

boys. and girls, and many
camps are offered by Recrea-
tion Departments, Boy Scouts,

. Y.M.C.A., Camp Fire Girls,
Girl Scouts and other organizations of neighbor-
ing cities. It was therefore surprising to learn
that large numbers of children in Albany were be-
ing denied opportunities for camping of any kind.
The many enthusiastic responses to the first an-
nouncement that overnight camps would be con-
ducted by the Recreation Department indicated
that the activity was desired and definitely needed.

The Site

When the Recreation Department first planned
overnight camps the site selected was little more
than a spacious back yard. It was a large play-
ground located in an outlying district of town,
partly surrounded by trees, with a sheltered area
for a camp fire. Had it not been for the opening
of the East Bay Regional Park with its majestic
redwood groves and other virgin forest areas not
more than twenty miles distant, plans would have
been carried out for the in—town camp. Though
this camp could not have offered the same attrac-
tions as the Regional Park site, had the providing

79

80 OVERNIGHT CAMPING ’

of transportation for this distance presented too
great an obstacle this in-town camp would have
solved the immediate need. Before the opening of
the Regional Park we had become convinced that
the in—town camp, if carefully planned and pro-
moted, could do much toward providing camping
activity for many boys and girls of the com-
munity. The community that lacks readily acces-
sible out-of-town sites can utilize one of its exist-
ing recreation areas and thereby fulfill the normal
and healthful desire of children to live, for a time,
in the out-of-doors.

Preparing for Camp

Announcements of the camp and the dates
on which it was to be held were made known
to the community through the usual publicity
channels. A special effort was made to get the
‘information before service Clubs and PTA or-
ganizations. This was done with the purpose
of gaining their aid in providing transportation
to and from the camp. Camp dates were plan-
ned in midweek at different times for boys and
for girls, and also on week-ends. In this way
conflicts with family week-end plans and with
Saturday work done by many of the boys were
largely avoided.

Each child was required to register at least three
days before the date set for the trip to camp.
Registration blanks required the name, address
and telephone number of the camper as well as
the signature of the parent. Campers provided
their own bedding, food and cooking utensils.
Upon registering they were instructed to meet at
a designated playground and be ready to leave for
camp at 9 A. M., and they were told that they
would be returned to the same place at 3 :30 P. M.
the following day. They also received instructions
as to the blankets and bed-
ding which would be needed,
amount and kinds of food,
cooking utensils that would
be necessary. Campers were
informed that it would not be
possible for them to join the
group if their bedding, food
and utensils were unsatisfac-
tory or inadequate. The en-
forcing of such a rule is nec-
essary, for we found that re-
gardless of every precaution
some children would arrive
at camp with inadequate pro-

"There are few adults today who lived as
children in the country or in a sparsély
settled residential district,who cannot re-

call with intense pleasure their childhood
experiences in sleeping out-of-doors

Often a spacious back yard supplied al
that was needed for a place to pitch a
tent, build a camp fire and prepare one's
own food, imagining the camp located in
the midst of a boundless forest. Nowa-
days back yards in the city are difficult
to find, and city ordinances make open
camp tires impossible. Some way must be
found of giving children this opportunity."

visions which might cause discomfort for all. An
incidental fee of twenty-five cents was charged to
help defray the cost of hot chocolate which was
served to all campers at supper, and lemonade or
punch which was served with lunch. In cases
where even this small fee could not be paid
special arrangements were made. A limited num-
ber of blankets and utensils were also provided
when it was discovered that lack of these things
would prohibit a child’s attendance.

When camps were conducted on Saturday
nights which extended into Sunday morning, it
was made clear in the publicity or announcements
that outdoor Sunday morning services would be
held under the leadership of a competent director.

Transportation

Transportation for the eighteen mile trip was
provided by an automobile caravan. Members of
service clubs donated the use of their cars on one
occasion, but it was found that PTA organiza-
tions had less difficulty in providing cars with
drivers, as the women were free to make the trip
during the day. Only those cars were used that
were available for both trips to and from the
camp. Drivers and owners of cars were always
informed that in the case. of an accident they
would be liable just as on any other occasion.
Careful travel by caravan led by the camp di-
rector, however, is the best insurance against pos—
sible accident. Another method of transportation
would be by chartered bus, which would relieve
the Recreation Department of all possibility of re-
sponsibility or blame in the case of accident.

Conducting the Camp

No provision for a nurse or doctor. was necessary
as ambulance service or ‘niedical aid which might
be needed in case of a serious
accident or sudden sickness
at camp could be obtained by
telephone. Because it was
possible to reach parents im-
mediately by the same means,
i many children were permit-
ted to join the camp whose
parents had refused to allow
them to attend other camps
located at greater distances
from home.

The conduct of camp and
camp activities was in most

(Continued on page 110)

 

Courtesy Art Service Project, WPA, New Y or}: City

What Games for the Day Camp?

OR THE PAST three years, both
summer and winter, a Day
Outing Camp program has

been conducted by the Works
Progress Administration of the City of New York

for New York City children. Considerable progress
has been made in the development of the program
during this time, and the selection of appropriate
game material has received special attention.

The purpose of the day camp program is to
awaken a consciousness of the joys and values of
recreation in woodland, rustic or waterway sur-
roundings, and to implant a kind of outdoors fa-
miliarity which will identify individuals with
woodlore and nature lore. All this will be a sat-
isfying equipment for leisure time, since such di-
version may be engaged in with much or little ex-
penditure of money.

The term day camp' was chosen with the idea
that in itself it conveyed an immediate impression
of primitive conditions, with something of a chal-
lenge to adventurous Spirit. It is important, there-
fore, to confine activities to those which most
strongly emphasize these interests. In long term
camps the day-after-day living conditions con-
tribute to this aim, while the fleeting exposure of‘
day campers to such near-rug-
ged environment as may be

found in or close to cities can-
not be depended upon to sup-
ply the need adequately.

Some part of every program
is devoted to games chosen not
only for the reasons mention—
ed, but to add new interests
rather than cling to those al-
ready known and accepted.

By MAUDE L. DRYDEN

Senior Proiect Supervisor
Day Outing Camps

"A Nature game is not a substitute
for Nature education but is a part
of it. Nature play is instinctive and
has the power of developing the play
habit. Childhood is the time for de-
veloping this play habit in the out of
doors. It neglected. the individual
will usually be deficient in that par-
ticular training. Man is the only ani-
mal that ever neglects or trains away
from the games of Nature."——-

—William G. Vinal.

Real effort is made to eliminate
the games used on the city streets
and playgrounds. For instance,
the children’s resquests for base—
ball would be acceded to only with a new group
and for the purpose of gaining control or confi-
dence. Other active woods-like games would be
substituted as soon as feasible.

In the W'PA day camp project are two types
of groups. One group is made up of children who
attend neighborhood organizations after school
hours and Saturdays; the other is made up of the
children from the public school class rooms in
winter, and the Board of Education play schools
in summer. For the neighborhood camps the fol-
lowing games are good examples: “Duck on the
Rock,” “Leap Frog,” “Over the Brook,” “Mid-
night,” “Hare and Hounds,” “Run, Sheep Run,”
“Ride Him Cowboy,” “Stealing Sticks” and
“Prisoner’s Base.” Instructions for these may be
found in any game book.

Many common games can be played with the
use of short branches and rocks instead of regu-
lation equipment. Where the Indian theme is
stressed, branches of proper thickness can be cut
into required lengths and decorated with symbols
and painted. “Club Snatch
Bombardment” and “Poison”
are games that can well use
such natural material to re-
place the usual Indian clubs.

Among the games that will
crystalize nature lore are the
following :

Nature Games

Trees and the Wind. Players
are divided into -two equal

81

82 WHAT GAMES FOR THE DAY CAMP?

sides—“Trees” and “Wind”—1—each side having a
home marked off at opposite ends of play space
with the wind. “Trees” pick a tree such as oak,
sumac or birch. They walk over to the “Wind” who
stand on their line ready to run and guess what
tree the other side may be. As soon as the
right tree is named all the trees run for home
the wind chasing after them. Any trees caught
become prisoners of the wind. The rest of the
trees play with the wind again taking a different
name until all the trees have been caught in a
given time. Then the Wind and trees exchange

places.

This is a combination of running and guessing,
correlating nature study with play and using
names of familiar trees, such as the. following:

I. Tulip 7. Oak

2. Elm 8. Sweet-locust
3. Black Cherry 9. Honey Locust
4. Red Cherry IO. Black Walnut
5. White Maple II. Cedar

6. Red Maple 12. Pine

Birdcatcher. Typew—Tag game

Number of Players-—Ten to thirty

Supplies—None.

“Birdcatcher” stands in clearing. Other play-
ers are given names of birds. Each group of
“birds” is divided in two subgroups of equal num-
ber, which are placed in “nests,” marked on op-
posite sides of clearing.

“7 hen the birdcatcher calls the name of a bird,
all the birds bearing that name must change nests.
The birdcatcher tries to catch them while they are
in the clearing. All the players who are tagged
are put into the cage (marked at one end of
clearing). When all the birds are in the cage the
iirst bird caught becomes the birdcatcher. If the
group is large have two birdcatchers. Use names
of familiar birds such as:

I. Starling 6. Hawk (Sparrow)

2. Chickadee 7. Woodpecker(Downy)
3. Sea-gull 8. Flicker

4. Sparrow (English) 9. Quail

5. Blue Jay

Beast, Bird. Fish. All Ages. Team Type of Ani-
n1al Games. '

Divide the players into teams A and B. Seat
teams opposite each other in any convenient man-
ner. Parallel lines are best. An A member starts
the game by throwing an object, such as a knotted
handkerchief, soft ball or bean bag to any B mem-
ber, calling, as he throws, one of the words:
“beast, bird, fish.” The instant after calling he
starts to count ten. Before he reaches ten the B

player Who received the object must name either
a beast, bird or fish, depending upon what the A
player called. If the B player fails to name a
correct object before the thrower counts ten, one
point is scored for A team. Similarly, a point is
scored if an object that was previously named is
mentioned a second time. The teams throw al—
ternately ; the one Wins that has the greater num-
ber of points at the end of a time limit.

Notes for leaders: It adds to the fun to permit
a player who cannot think of a name quickly to
throw the handkerchief to a team mate at least
two players distant. He calls “Help” While
throwing.

Nature Chase. This is a woodsy adaptation of
birds, trees and Bowers to a playground game of
chase.

Two captains choose sides and determine which
team shall be “chasers” and which. “runners.”
Then the playing space, usually a road, is marked
with three lines-~—one a starting line 60 to 100 feet
from the second or take-off line, which is three
feet from the third or safety line. The runners
and chasers, respectively, retire behind their safety
and starting lines. The runners decide upon the
name either of a bird, tree, flower or plant, keep-
ing the decision secret from the chasers. To i1-
lustrate, if they decide upon a bird, say wood—
pecker, the runners advance to the take-off line
and announce to the chasers that they are birds.
Now the game actually starts.

Under the direction of their captain, the chas—
ers huddle in a compact mass and decide upon a
number of birds. Each player is then assigned a
certain bird. They return to the starting line,
three feet from the opponents, who are behind
the take-off line, and the active part of the game
begins. The first chaser calls loudly the name of
the bird assigned to him. If it is not the one
selected by the runners they yell in unison
“Wrong.”

The next chaser then names a bird. \Vhen
“Woodpecker” is called, the runners instantly
dash for safety behind the safety line, pursued by
the chasers. The chasers receive one point for
each player tagged. The team Wins that has more
points at the end of an even number of innings.

Notes for leaders: It is advisable to permit
players to select only such nature objects as are

' indigenous to the part of the country in which

they live. When players fail to name the object
selected by their opponents, after each member
named one thing, they tend to give up. They

I’VHAT GAMES FOR THE DAY (LIMP? 83

should be encouraged to retire and think of more
objects and keep trying until successful. A name
should be used only once during a game.

Birds of Prey. Corner Ball may easily be made
a nature game. The ball may be given the name
of a bird and the goalies each can take the name
of a tree. When team A is in possession of the
bird, team B will became birds of prey and will
attempt to prevent team A from sending the bird

line to form the net. The players in the other
goal are the fish. At a given signal the players
change goals. The net tries to catch as many fish
as possible by surrounding them. The fish can
escape only through the opening between the ends
of the net; they cannot go under the arms. When
the ends close together, all go back to their goals.
The fish then join hands and become the net.
The game continues in this way, each group being

 

Courtesy Art Service Project, WPA, New York City

safely into a tree. If team A succeeds in getting
the bird safely into a tree, team B must give up
one of its hawks and then they take the ball and
team A becomes the birds of prey and team B
tries to send the bird safely into a tree. The team
having the larger number of men at the end of
the game is declared the Winner.

Catch of Fish. A goal is marked off at each end
of the’field, and the players, divided into two
equal groups, take their positions in the two goals.
The players in one goal join hands and stand in

alternately fish and net until all of one side are
caught

Other Types of Games

The children from the public schools have a
program arranged so that during the regular
school term their class room work will be em—
phasized in all their camping experiences.

Numbers is one game that is used to stress
arithmetic. Players form a circle and each player
is given a number. Leader stands in the center of

84 W'HAT GAMES FOR THE DAY CAMP?

the circle and calls a number, for example 8. The
,player whose number is 8 must run into the circle
and catch the ball before it touches the ground.
If he fails to catch the ball one point is scored
against him; three points put him out of the game.
If he catches the ball he becomes the leader. Di-

vision, subtraction, addition and multiplication

may be used. Example: to call the number 6, the
leader may call any of the following ways, 12
divided by 2, 18 divided by 3, IO minus 4, or to
make it more difficult, 3 times 8 plus 4 minus IO
divided by 3, etc‘.

Another device used was to step off distances
between opposing lines, counting the number of
children for each leader, calculating how many

periods of recreation were possible in the time '

allotted.

My Friend is a game used in connection with
geography. Players are arranged in a circle. One
child in the center, who is “it,” says “My friend
wears wooden shoes,” and counts while pointing
to some one in the circle. If this person does n0t
say “Netherlands” or “Holland” before ten is
counted, he must replace the person in the center.
“It” may say “My friend lives in a country where
” or “My friend’s national emblem is the
Shamrock, Thistle, Dragon, etc.”

 

Old Man of the Woods is a good day camp
game for use with the children of the public
schools. The players are divided into two groups,
which form into two lines facing each other a
short distance apart. One group is chosen to
“act” (after deciding upon some action repre-
senting Old Man’s occupation). They advance a
few steps saying “Here comes Old Man from the
Woods.” The second group says “What can he
do?” First group replies “Anything.” Second
group says “Work away.” At this command all
players in flrst grottp imitate an occupation
such as chopping wood, sawing lumber, pick-
ing fruit, rowing a boat, building a fire. The sec-
ond group guesses what the action represents, and,
if correct, they take a turn at performing. If the
guess is wrong the first group retires to decide on
another occupation, returns and acts it until the
second group guesses correctly, when the order is
reversed.

A class that is learning about Switzerland may
use a rope and alpine stock (improvised from
branch of tree) and hike over the rockiest and
hilliest route in the park. They will. probably
make weird attempts at yodeling!

I Like is a game that may be adapted to any
subject that has been taught in the class room and
lends itself very well to nature subjects. Five to
flfteen may play and will need a large soft ball.
Players form a line with “It” standing in front a
few feet away. All players take the name of a
rock, for instance, that has been discussed previ-
ously. One “rock” is chosen to be “It.” “It”
stands on a line with one hand on the ball ready
to throw at the rocks who are standing in the
line marked off about four feet away. When the
rock who is “it” calls out “granite,” all the. play-
ers start to run and the player who is “granite”
must run up to “it,” take the ball and call out
“Halt”! Runners must st0p immediately when he
tries to hit one of the running rocks. The rock
who is hit then becomes “it” and the game pro-
ceeds until a player has been hit three times. This
player is then put “through the mill”‘or some

other form of penalty.

Note: Rocks common to New York City day
camp sites are slate, marble, gneiss, sandstone,
fieldspar and quartz. Names of trees, birds, in-
sects, Howers, or any nature subject may be used
instead of rocks.

“All fun” games will find a place in day camps,
and directions for playing these will be found in
Rodg‘ers’ A Handbook of Stunts. These are espe-
cially good to use for Council Ring ceremonies.

Singing Games. Many of the singing games
may be used to introduce folk dancing. Some of
these are “Lads and Lassies,” “Jump Jim Crow,”

“Pop Goes the Weasel.”

Sense Games. Among the popular sense games
are the following: '

Sight—Find an object in plain sight. The first
one to see it sits down but does not tell.

Touch—Blindfold the children and have one-
child come up to be examined (felt) as to wear-
ing apparel, etc., for identification.

Hearing—Find an object by loud and soft
mu51c.

Smell—Blindfold and guess articles by odors.

Taste—Blindfold and guess nature samples by
taster

It is difficult to distinguish between activities
that fall into the category of games and those of
slightly more woodcraft nature, fOr there are hikes
of many sorts that might almost be classed as
games. The “compass” hike or “point to point”
hike is of this type. The collection hike is another.

(Continued on page 111)

Singing Campers

WEN a short-term educational
6 camp with a succession of

groups of underprivileged
boys ranging in age from eight to
fifteen years—boys of various na-
tionalities, color and religion—is it possible to in-
troduce a program of really good music which the
boys will accept and enjoy?

It was to answer this question that we tried our
experiment, and the result has been a music pro—
gram the content of which most camp directors
would declare impossible of success.

Up to 1934 music at this camp was very much
like that found at most others. College songs,
parodies, humorous songs and yells made up the
repertoire. Songs‘such as “I Wish I Were Sin-
gle Again,” “Old MacDonald Had a Farm,” “It
Ain’t Gonna Rain No More,” and others of simi—
lar nature were called camp music. The concept
of interpretation, of melody, of lasting worth, was
never considered. The sole purpose was to offer
simple songs which might be quickly sung by the

group.
Pleasant Surprises

The campers of the summer of 1934 found to
their amazement two junior counselors, not much
older than themselves, who played a violin and a
cello. They learned that these young men, along
with the music counselor, comprised a trio and
that they were there to play whenever the oppor-
tunity presented itself. Not only was the trio an
innovation, but new songs were to be taught and
sung at a definite period each day. The words of
each song were lettered on a large sheet of paper
which made an easily readable chart. At first the
thought came to mind that this formality and
these songs would end any spontaneity in singing

and that the failure to use simple, humorous songs' -

would be a real loss which the campers would feel.
But to the amazement of everyone it was discov—
ered that there were songs included in the chart
which were just as humorous,‘
gleeful and full of fun as those
eliminated, yet they were rich in
content.

\Vhen the campers became
aware that “The Frog Went A—
COurting” and “Good Little

By ROBERT RUBIN

Director. Camp Henry
Henry Street Settlement

The purpose of the writer in pre-
paring this material has been tp
share with the practical camp d:-
rector an experiment in music for
the camp program which has been

successful for three 5 u m m e r 5.

Cricket” were lots of fun to sing,
there was no stopping them. The
older campers favored “Wraggle
Taggle Gypsies” and “Rolling Down
to Rio,” along with the “Zuni Sun-
set Song” and others. .

'When the campers’ enthusiasm had been won,
the rest was comparatively easy sailing. The camp-
ers learned the songs by rote and sang in unison.
The leaders were always ready to adapt the choice
of songs to the interest shown by each successive
group. The songs used were varied in character,
simple and tuneful, and they were presented in an
interesting variety. No song was added to the
chart unless it had significance and had proven its
worth throughout many years. Songs such as the
English “Keys of Canterbury,” the French “On
the Bridge of Avignon,” the Czech “Shine Upon
Me, Golden Sunlight,” the Italian “The Wheel-
barrow Loaders,” and the Kentucky mountain
“Swapping Songs” are examples. Perhaps the fol-
lowing picture will bring out the thought more
clearly.

Procedures I and Outcomes

Because of the camp set—up the music period
was conducted immediately after the rest period
which followed lunch, although a more desirable
time would have been in the morning. The camp-
ers gathered in the play house and seated them-'
selves in a semicircle facing the chart and piano.
Two campers were given the privilege of turning
the sheets of the chart. The music counselor was at
the piano, and when all the campers were seated
he began to play. Before the music period he had
prepared a plan of procedure so he knew exactly
the order of the songs. The campers sang in uni—
son, and a reflection of the meaning of the songs
was evident on their faces. Occasionally one of
the campers led the singing. The music session,
thOUgh definitely scheduled for all the campers,
was entirely informal in spirit.

After four or five songs had
been sung; the music counselor
announced that the trio would
'play, say, the Beethoven “Min-
uet” in G. Highbrow stuff? Not
at all! The selection was some-
thing the children were eager to

85

86 SINGING CAMPERS

hear because the music counselor the night before
had told them some very interesting and vital
stories about Beethoven’s wonderful inner powers
despite his deafness, and the campers were curi-
ous and interested to hear what this composer had

written.

One music counselor, asked to explain his work -

at the camp, said:

“The music situation this year remains funda-
mentally unchanged. The songs which have been
sung here for the past two seasons are used, and
in addition a number of Negro spirituals and folk
songs not previously used have been introduced.
The trio, now an institution at this camp, play the
music of the great masters and solos are rendered
on occasion by the violinist, the cellist and the
pianist. During the two weeks’ stay of each group
an Operetta is produced by the campers, the Gil—
bert and Sullivan operettas, “Pinafore” and “The
Pirates of Penzance” being used. At least ten
boys participated in these.

“The musical activity is broadened by the tell-
ing of stories concerning music and musicians and
by listening to suitable radio programs. The chil-
dren like the music. This is evidenced by the spon-
taneous singing of the newly learned songs at
every opportunity. The Negro spirituals are espe-
cially popular. On particularly hot days the music
hour is conducted under a tree on the campus. On
such occasions no instrumental music is used.
However, at each outdoor session a violin or cello
solo is played. ,

“Our aim is essentially realized. The children
are given a variety and breadth of musical experi-
ence, and some insight into how composers work
and what inspires them. These activities Show
classical music to be a logical and rational develop-
ment of folk music, and folk music is shown to
be a definite reflection of the lives of the nations
producing it. Thus the power of reinterpretation
of the folk songs by the campers is greatly aug-

mented. An indication of the interest aroused was
given when a boy who had been at camp during
the summer mailed to me a clipping concerning a
composer and explained that the stories he had
heard at camp had acted as the incentive to his
seeking further stories about musicians.”

There was more to the music program than the
learning of certain songs. For some children this
was the first time they had been exposed to good
music. Although the exact effect the music hour
made on the children cannot be measured objec-
tively, there seems to have been a definite result
obtained. For example, the campers sang the folk
songs not only during the music hour but also
during their camp work, their shack clean-up and
on their bus trips home, all this singing being
spontaneous and real.

Two Questions and Answers

Two questions arise. “Why have a formal
music hour P” “Does this music program presup-
pose the complete displacement of the better tra-
ditional camp songs?”

In answer to the first question it may be said
that in a short-term camp certain freer educational
methods of procedure must be waived for practi-
cal results. It would have been far better to have
had attendance at the music session optional. Such
a process, however, though educationally sound,
would have taken in only a limited number of
children, and before the rest became interested
their short vacation would have ended.

In reply to the second question, it may be said
that the better traditional camp songs, associated
as they are with happy camp memories, should
not be too suddenly eliminated. It is strongly felt,
however, that the new folk songs with their su—
perior quality will gradually. assume greater sig-
nificance in the minds of the campers, and as
these songs become associated with camp experi-
ence, they will become the traditional songs.

The Folk Songs Used
—————————————————-——~——-———-——______._____________________

 

NAME or SONG SOURCE PUBLISHER
A-Roving '
Coasts of High Barbary Folk Songs, Chanteys and Singing H. W. Gray Co.

Keys of Canterbury
Wraggle Toggle Gypsies 0!

Games, Edited by Charles H.
Farnsworth and Cecil J. Sharp

159 East 48th Street, New York City

 

All God’s Chillnn Got Wings
Go Down Moses

It’s Me 0 Lord

Little David Play on Yo’ Harp
Swing Low Sweet Chariot
Water Boy

S p iritnals

The Book of American Negro

Viking Press, Inc. .
18 East 48th Street, New York City

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I SINGING CAMPERS 87
NAME or SONG SOURCE PUBLISHER
Billy Boy Shanty Book, Part I, ' J, Curwen
Edited by R. R. Terry Germantown, Philadelphia
' Little Purple Poppy Botsford Collection of Folk Songs, G. Schirmer, Inc.
The Ott'let Volume I 3 East 43rd Street, New York City
l—Veggis Song Botsford Collection of Folk Songs, G. Schirmer, Inc.
Wheelbarrow Loaders Volume II
Come You Here Laddie Botsford Collection of Folk Songs, G. Schirmer, Inc.
Roda Song Volume III
Cricket and the Ant Folk Songs of the Four Seasons. G. Schirmer, Inc.
Driving Away at the Smoothing Iron Text and Translation by Susanna
On the Bridge of Avignon Meyers; harmonization by
Robin Hood and Little John ~ Harvey Officer
Song of the Good Little Men
Down in the Valley American Songbag, Harcourt Brace & Co., Inc.
bv Carl Sandburg 383 Madison Avenue, New York City
' Fireflies A Book of Songs, Concord Series E. C. Schirmer Music Co.
' Frog and the Mouse No. 14. Edited by Davison, 221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Surette and Zanzig
Good Night Beloved Twenty-four Bohemian Folk Songs, G. Schirmer, Inc.
Shine Upon Me, Golden Sunlight Compiled by Pizek -
John Peel ' Laurel Unison Song Book C. C. Birchard & Co.
221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Land of Heart’s Desire Songs of the Hebrides, Boosey 8: Co.
Reiving Ship by Kennedy, Fraser and Steinway Hall, New York City
Road to the Isles Kenneth Macleod
Morning Comes Early Folk Songs and Ballads, Set I E. C. Schirmer Music Co.
Tiritomba
Organ Grinder Franz Schubert Carl Fischer, Inc.
Opus 89 56 Cooper Square, New York City.
Peddler _ Concord Series No. 15 E. C. Schirmer Music Co.
Wm—
Rolling Down to Rio Rudyard Kipling Poems H. W. Gray Co.
Set to music by Edward German .
Sunrise Call Traditional Songs of the Zuni Theodore Presser_ Co.
Sunset Song Indians, Transcribed and har— 1712 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.
monized by Carlos Troyer
Szcrapping Song Twenty Kentucky Mountain Oliver Ditson Co., Inc.
The Toad’s Courtship Songs 166 Terrace, Boston, Mass.
Instrumental Music Used '

I By the Trio , Haydn—Minuet Allegro
Beethoven—Minuet in G Handel—301‘77’ée . .
Brath_Waltges Franz Drdla—Humnnng Bird
Chopin_w'altzes Franz Drdla—Souvenir
Grieg—Norwegian Dance Cello

. Schtlberthoment Musicale Gabriel Faure__Elegl-e
Haydn—T7705 a Saint Saens—Allegro‘Appassionata
Ernest Bloch—Three Nocturnes Corelli_p. Major Sonata
Max Bruch.—Kol Nidre I. S. Bach__Am°050
llozart—iTrzos . , David Popper—Gavotte
Cesar Cul—Orientale (from “Kale1dosc0pe’ ) Van G0nes_56her30

A5 solos J. S. Bach—Adagio
. , J. S. Bach—Bonrre’e (From III Suite)
V iolm
Cesar Cui—Orientale P 130710
D’Ambrosia_Cangonetta Beethoven-Moonlight Sonata
Fritz Kreisler—Transcriptions and Original Beethoven—Pathetique Sonata

Pieces Debussy—Golliwogs Cakewalk

uRide a
Cock l-lorse"

HE HORSE may be permanently displaced on
T the highways by the “horseless carriage.” but

in a number of recreation departments and
among private groups it is coming back into its
own on shaded bridle paths with the formation of
riding clubs as an integral part of a program of
recreational and social activities.

A Recreation Department Club

The Wyoming Valley Equestrian Club was or-
ganized in the city of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania,
in June 1933, under the direction of the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Wyoming
Valley. The club was initiated by a group of five
girls who wished to ride, but found the horses and
equipment available unsatisfactory and the price
trio high.

These girls, in an attempt to solve the problem,
visited many farms and so-called academies and,
finally, a proud possessor of three horses was
found who said he would buy another horse or
two and give a fifty percent reduction in the cur-
rent price if he could be guaranteed at least ten
riders a week. Each interested person then per-
suaded a friend to ride a horse at least once. This
“friend-ask—friend” system, coupled with pictures
_of local people in smart habits and articles in the
newspapers, launched the club on its way to more
than a hundred members. As the interest in the
club 'increased, commercial riding academies start-
ed to grow overnight with a vast improvement in
equipment and horses. Today there are eight
academies in and about Wyoming Valley, each
owning from ten to fifty horses.

The object of the club is to stimulate and en-
courage interest in riding and to bring together in

929

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Association of H’yomz’ng Valley

a social way those who wish to participate in this
sport. To this end the Wyoming Valley Eques-
trian Club prepared and carried out a program of
activities, duly recognizing existing efforts and
facilities. and creating new ones only as. needed.
It keeps in touch with other organizations of per-
sons interested in riding by friendly exchange of
information.

In order to be a member of the Equestrian
Club,-all applicants must serve three months on
probation, during which they must have complet-
ed ten hours of supervised riding. They are then
admitted to the club, but are not permitted to wear
the club pin until they have completed twenty—five
hours of riding, using standard equipment (Eng-
lish saddle). The membership fee is five dollars
a year.

In the fall a breakfast ride and a Hallowe’en
party were held, and the group participated in the
Horse Show and Music Ride sponsored by the
109th Field Artillery. All participants in the show
as well as the spectators were invited to attend the
club’s Horse Show Ball which followed the Show.

An Equestrian Night is held once a week dur—
ing the winter at the local Armory where indoor
riding is available. The riding hall is reserved for
club members only. Beginners are given instruc-
tion from six o’clock until seven, intermediates
from seven until eight, and the balance of the
evening is devoted to drills and jumping.

During each year two over-night rides are
planned. The club members either ride across the
countryside until a good site is found and pitch
their tents for the night, returning the next day,

I or they stay at some farm house where permission

has been obtained and arrangements made in

 

advance. The qualifications of a rider and the
rules governing such a ride are very strict. Each
person participating is instructed in the proper
care of horses and is personally responsible for his
or her mount. It is very often necessary to use
horses from more than one academy, and because
of the number of miles covered good horseman-
ship plays a large part in this 'activity.

The Wyoming Valley Equestrian Club has a
girls’ and a boys’ polo team. The difficulty in 'se-

curing good polo ponies and the reluctance of.

commercial academies in renting horses for this
purpose handicaps this activity to a great extent.
As yet the club itself does not own horses, but flve
or six individual members have bought them.

A County Stable

Owned and operated by the Union County Park
Commission, the' Watchung Riding Stable pro-
vides a rich and varied program'of activities for
riders. It is located on the main bridle trail in the
Watchung Reservation which has over twenty-
two miles of well-kept bridle paths. At the stable
a new and enlarged lighted ring permits riding
during the early evening hours. An excellent out-
side jumping course is located on the grounds and
is available to horse owners in the vicinity. The
stable is also equipped with an attractive ,club
room which the patrons are welcome to use at any
time.

The Park Commission owns seventeen school
horses which are hired out, on all days, at $1.50
per hour. A book of riding tickets is sold for
$10.00 and gives the buyer $12.00 worth of rides,
thereby reducing the hourly rate to $1.25. Ten
new horses were purchased during 1936 to meet

Now that golf is out ot
the "millionaire" class

it is not surprising to
Find horseback riding

promoted by Recreation
and Park Departments!

an increased demand. The stable accommodates
fifty horses. Individual instruction in horseback
riding is offered at $1.50 per hour. Organized
classes of eight or more riders are given free in-
struction. '

During late spring and in the summer months
the stable is open on Monday, Tuesday, and Wed-
nesday evenings for business people and others
who have no time to ride during the day. Moon-
light rides and other activities are arranged for
regular patrons from time to time.

An annual horse show is held in June. The
tenth annual show, on June 6th and 7th of last
year, attracted 1,500 spectators and included
thirt) -seven classes and 203 entries. It was the
hrst year that a two-day show had been held. A
gymkhana is staged each fall for regular riders of
the Watchung Stable. The fourth annual show,
held on October 17th of this year, included nine
classes for horsemanship, saddlehorses, bridle
path hacks, a sweepstakes for open jumping, and
mounted games. -

An annual endurance ride is held over a ten-
mile' course on the bridle trails, in the Watchung
Reservation. The ride proves of great interest not
only to those having horses entered but to a large
number of spectators as well.

Particular attention has been paid to. the or-
ganization of groups of riders by T. N. Tully,
Manager of the Stable. These include the Watch-
ung Rangers, Watchung Girls’ Troop, a Boys’ and
Girls’ Riding Club, a women’s riding class, and
various school groups. ' _

The W'atchung Rangers are a group of boys of
varying ages who ride on Saturday mornings.

( C antimwd on page 112)

89

"I’ll See You at Atlantic City!"

Yes, you can say that with a good deal of

confidence because many of your friends will

be there. Letters, long distance calls and personal

inquiries give clear indication of the growing in-
terest and assured attendance.

The program is practically complete. The co-
operation that has been shown by outstanding
board members, educators from colleges and pub-
lic schools, recreation executives and others, has
been splendid. The discussion groups alone enlist
the leadership of I 50 men and women as presid-
ing officers, discussion leaders and summarizers.
The printed list of questions. which will be used
in the discussion groups are in the mails within
the next two weeks. Every section of the country
will be represented by executives and lay leaders,
officials and volunteers. I

Since the last issue of RECREATION many new
names have been added to the list of speakers and
leaders. Among these are Frank S. Lloyd, Pro-
fessor of Education, New York University; H.
J. Baker, Director, Cooperative Extension Work
in Agriculture and Home Economics, New Bruns-
wick, New Jersey; Dr. F. W. Maroney, Teachers
College, Columbia University; Ernest M. Best,
President, Springfield College; Julian H. Salo-
mon, Field Coordinator, National Park Service,
Washington, D. C.; Hon. Richard Hartshorn,
Judge, East Orange, New Jersey; Ellen Eddy
Shaw, Brooklyn Botanic Garden; Mrs. Ruby M.
Payne, Crispus Attucks Recreation and Com-
munity Center, Lancaster, Pennsylvania; George
W. Farny, mining engineer, Morris Plains, New
Jersey; George Hjelte, Superintendent of Recre-
ation, Los Angeles, California; Professor Emery
E. Olson, American University, Washington, D. C. ;
Mrs. Eva W. White, Elizabeth Peabody House,
Boston; Professor Harley T. Lutz, Department
of Economics, Princeton University; J. E. Ben-
nett, Commissioner of Public Affairs, Portland,
Oregon; Dr. O. E. Jennings, Carnegie Museum,
Pittsburgh; William H. Tur-
ner, Secretary, Conservation
Association of Regina, Sas-
katchewan, C a n a d a ; Walter
Scott, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Long Beach, Cali-
fornia; Byrnes MacDonald,

90

II I ’LL SEE YOU AT ATLANTIC CITY l”

A FINAL ANNOUNCEMENT

The TWenty-Second National Recreation
Congress will be held at Atlantic City
May l7-2l. The Headquarters Hotel will

be the Ambassador. It is not too late
for you to make your plans to attend.

Sixth Deputy Police Commissioner, New York
(Mr. MacDonald has developed neighborhood
councils and the special police program for the
prevention of delinquency in New York City);
F. L. McReynolds, Extension Specialist, 4-H
Club, Purdue University; Arthur S. Hotchkiss,
Director of Recreation, Tennessee Coal, Iron and
Railroad Company, Birmingham, Alabama; V. K.
Brown, Chief, Recreation Division, Chicago Park
District; Professor George Shipman, Princeton
University; F. G. Crawford, School of Citizen-
ship and Public Affairs, Syracuse University;
Harold S. Buttenheim, Editor, American City,
and Col. Ernest G. Smith, publisher, Wilkes
Barre, Pa.

Radio Round Table

The radio round table will be one of the most
interesting features of the program. The subject
is intriguing—“Is Public Recreation Pampering
Youth?” Mr. John G. Winant will be master of
ceremonies. He will state the question, explain
what is meant by public recreation and revier
some of the questions raised by peOple who really
believe that recreation pampers youth. Mr. Otto
T. Mallery, lawyer, connected with the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Philadel-
phia, will share in the discussions from the point
of view of the business man; Mrs. James H. Van
Alen will represent the lay woman’s point of
view; George Hjelte will speak for recreation,
and Edward Ballinger, a student at New York
University, will speak for youth.

This able group should answer with some
finality the questions so often heard:

“Why do we now need leaders of recreation?
We grew up without them.”

“Is too much being done now for young
people?”

“Do they appreciate it after all?”

“Does public recreation destroy originality P”

“Why should we give money for amusement P”

Board Members, Committee-
men and Volunteers

This Congress will be mark-
ed by an unusually large rep-
resentation of board members,
committeemen and volunteers.

(Continued on page 113)

Why Not: a Stay-at—l-lome Vacation?

HY NOT ENJOY a stay-at-
w home vacation?

This was the question
that came to mind after a casual
encounter and even more casual
words, the other afternoon.

“New Yorkers are almost
strangers in their home town,”
declared the dynamic little lady
who is “chief” of all the “white
collar” projects of the New
York City Works Progress Ad-
ministration.

“That applies to America gen-
erally,” I agreed, “In spite of our motor and trail-
ers and auto camps.” '

She smiled. “That seems so. I live across from
the Brooklyn Botanical Garden,” she continued,
“I go walking there on week-ends and can you
believe this P—I rarely hear English spoken dur-
ing those walks! German, French, Czech, Span-
ish, yes, and even Polish and Russian, but only a
few old couples are speaking the English tongue.
The younger generation pass our gorgeous Bo-
tanical Garden by—if they even know it exists.”

Two images crossed my mind —the quaint
planting of annuals in Central Park that is called
Shakespeare’s Garden, since it gives root to every
flower and herb mentioned by. the hard, and the
charm of the tip of Manhattan Island whose rocky
crest is crowned with Fort Tryon Park. Though
I have lived in New York nearly two decades, I
had only discovered these treasures a few days
before. Most of us scarcely know our own towns
or our own country.

One of the most fruitful phases of the WPA
Recreation Department program has been the
opening to youth and adult the possibilities within
their neighborhood for leisure time activity.

Pocketbooks that are lean—and ever so many
still are in that condition may not support a vaca-
tion away from home. Even if the call of moun-
tains, lakes and ocean must be denied, why shOUId
families not find rest and recreation by experi-
menting in a Stay-at-Home vacation? For father,
the office will not be calling in the mornings; for
the children, school bells will not be ringing. With
the entire family at home, the enjoyment of the
vacation period can be limited only by lack of re-

By MARESE ELIOT

Public Information Service. WPA
New York City

sourcefulness on the part of the
individual members and can be
measured by their determination
to make the time mutually re-
creative.

A stay-at-home vacation will give
you a chance, to discover what your
community has to offer you in the
way of leisure time opportunities.
And you'll be surprised to find out
how much there is to enjoy without
leaving your own home! Set out on
a journey of discovery this summer!

Getting Ready for Vacation

In planning such a stay-at-
home period, the first activity
that should be undertaken in
advance of vacation time is an
investigation of the neighbor-
hood and all it can offer for rec-
reation. This is group activity
for winter and spring evenings as the family
gathers around the hearth after dinner.

Suppose you decide to experiment this year.
Find a map of the locality in which you live. Sev-
eral types are useful but those readily available _
through the U. S. Geological Survey in Washing-
ton give the correct picture of the terrain, reveal-
ing back roads, elevations, water courses and
lakes. A map, carefully backed with a thin linen
or closely woven cotton, can be folded without
fear of tearing along the creases or at the edges.

Check off parks and other scenic spots as ob-
jectives for hikes and picnics. Gather all the in-
formation concerning these spots and the facilities
they offer for entertainment. The library will
probably contain books that reveal old buildings
and approximate location of historic events. In
the vicinity of New York City sites of old Revo-
lutionary forts are still unknown and light on their
actual location adds a focus to the trip. A folder
can be made for the maps together with such de-
tailed information as train schedules and rates for
train and boat trips both for the places at some
distance and also for the ones that are reachable
by trolley. The knowledge of schedules coming
and going will often save tiresome waits at inade-
quate wayside stations. The gathering of such
data about the neighborhood places of interest
makes a pleasant occupation for the winter and
spring evenings and the results can be neatly filed
away ready for the momentous vacation period.

In the city, locations of municipal pools and
bathing beaches should be ascertained and the
hours and days that they may be used, tOgether _
with all information as to the necessary equipment

91

92 WHY NOT A STAY-AT-HOME VACATION?

that the family will need to take advantage of the
pool. If there are no such public places in the
community, then research can be made along
private lines. Some settlements have pools. The
hours and prices may be discovered and filed away
for that hot afternoon during the stay-at-home
vacation when the family feels it must have a.
swim. Some of the hotels have pools, as do some
of the larger clubs. Often they have special hours
at reduced rates. The vacation folder can file away
all such data for that occasion when knowledge

is valuable.

Many communities have golf courses that are
open to the public. If the older members of the
family already play golf or have a desire to learn
the game, the information in advance will save
time when vacation days are at hand. This data
should include the necessary permits and the
schedules of the course. Most parks boast of ten-
nis courts which will add to the vacation pleasure
of younger members of the group. In many places
grounds are laid out for croquet and horseshoe
and quoits. Again it will be well to know in ad-
vance and file for reference the methods that must
be employed to use these community activities.
Some of these grounds must be booked in advance,
some require a small fee, some do and some do
not provide the apparatus. Be prepared to take
advantage of the courts during the holidays.

Home Resources Important

Perhaps the family is located in a community
where no such facilities are provided for leisure
time. Then they are thrown back upon the home
resources. If preparation is made in advance of
vacation, the old adage of “no place like home”
will prove true to the stay-at-home vacationer.

The back yard is the ideal spot around which
to center the holidays at home. Little money will
be needed to develop it so that it can be used not
only for the weeks of entirely free time but also
in those hours of leisure which are growing every
year. Such a playground need not be filled with
costly apparatus in order to provide a healthful,
happy place'fOr adults and children to spend their
leisure.

For the children of the family, slides, swings,
see-saws, as well as sand boxes for the tiny ones,
can all be made by the group themselves. It is a
curious fact that the apparatus which children are
able to construct alone or with the aid and super-
vision of grown ups, often proves more interest-

ing and absorbing than that purchased. Children,
indeed, need materials for construction.

For the small ones, the sand box is the spot in
the play yard which will keep them happy and
quiet for the longest periods. The older members
of the group can construct the frame. The box
should be built of boards carefully planed to pre-
vent splintering. Its depth should be about ten or
twelve inches. The size is regulated by the space
available. A narrow shelf around the top pro-
vides a place for the children to sit and a space on
which they can play. Play materials consist of tin
cups, molds, old spoons, and shells from previous
seashore trips, which make, with the clean sand
filling the box, a soume of absorbing interest.

To the side of the fence, the woodshed or on
the laundry pole, a heavy wire twisted into a ring
may be attached. This forms a basketball goal.
Plenty of goal shooting practice is enjoyable dur-
ing vacation time.

With a small plot of turf there can be con-
structed a putting field for father, mother and
neighbors who want to improve their game off the
course. This can be easily made by sinking some
old tin cans in the turf. Provided there is suf-
licient room, the so-called game of “clock golf”
may be laid out and used with real advantage to
those who need to perfect the putting side of their
game. A net swung in circular form from several
posts may be used as a net into which father can
practice his drive. Using the side of the garage
or the back fence as a backstop, this driving tee
makes an excellent practice ground The same spot
is excellent to practice drive shots for tennis skills.

Hiking is one of the most fascinating and varied

i

of the family activities which can be enjoyed dur- _

ing the vacation period. Family hikes begun at
this time can be continued when the actual holi—
days are only memories. Hikes may be planned
and their course marked on the map during the
winter evenings. They may be begun before the
actual vacation time. A luncheon may be packed
and ready so that on the spring evenings when the
children come from school and father from his
oflice, the whole family can set out for a walk in
the woods to some scenic spot for a campfire and
supper, drawing a dividend from daylight saving
time! Thus the vacation time can be savoured in
advance and later lengthened into the fall after
the precious holidays are past.

Hiking trips are particularly opportune for de-

l

l

t
{If

I
x!

veloping hobbies both for the entire family and its 

(Continued on page 115)

Youth to the Rescue!

Young PeOple of Cleveland work through the NYA

to increase the city's recreational facilities

HE ADDITION of seventeen playgrounds to
Cleveland’s recreation system will not come
merely as a “happening.” It will be the re-
sult of careful planning by the Division of Rec—
reation of the Department of Parks and Public
Property, of which I. Noble Richards is Commis-
sioner, the Mayor’s Advisory Board on Play-
grounds and Recreation, and the National Youth
Administration. Cooperatively these groups last
August worked out plans for the utilization of the
services of young people in the NYA during the
fall and winter months. The plan involved the
collection and repair of city playground equip—
ment; the manning of “continuation” playgrounds,
V the operation of a workshop for the manufacture
of permanent facilities and the construction of
permanent improvements on city-owned play-
grounds. Such-a program, it was Mr. Richards’
plea, would give the young people year-round oc-
cupation, and more would be accomplished for the
city’s facilities than municipal appropriations
could make possible for years.

The officials who cooperated in the project were
enthusiastic over the plan. And in addition it was
backed by neighborhood groups and organizations
such as Kiwanis and Rotary Clubs, the American
Legion, garden clubs and foreign groups whose
interest was enlisted in cooperating with the au-
thorities in maintaining play areas, beautifying
them, and securing additional facilities and equip-
ment.

Then They Began !

And so they started out, these young people,
with little in the way of materials or leadership
from skilled workers, but with the will to do!
What they accomplished has
been outstanding.

A large room in the old
Thomas Edison school previ-
ously used by Mr. Richards for
the work of the Cuyahoga
County Recreation Commission
became the workshop of the

It is an interesting story. as told by
Glenn W. Carter of the Cleveland
Division of Recreation. ot the work
done by young people of that city
to improve and increase recreational
equipment and facilities. and to
make possible a richer leisure time
program torthemselves and others.

NYA wood and cement projects. A number of
untrained youths were assigned to the projects,
and several broken packing boxes were dragged
from the basement for them to knock apart. Tools
at the beginning of the venture consisted of one
hammer and two old saws. Other tools were
secured later. Green youths worked with green
lumber. The packing boxes were transformed
into work benches. Hands unaccustomed to tools
learned to guide a saw accurately and the myster—
ies of blue prints were carefully eXplained.

Three thousand feet of lumber were delivered
by NYA and the city together. Supervisors
showed the willing youths how to shape molds
and treat them to keep the wood from warping.
Of course there were difficulties. The experi-
mental stage was a hard one on both youths and
supervisors. Nevertheless they at last went into
production and did a creditable job.

Tons of sand and sacks of cement followed the
building of molds. Just as painstakingly were they
taught to mix and pour the concrete as they had
been instructed in working with wood. At last
they were ready to mix concrete of the right con-
sistency and pour it into the waiting mold‘s.

Today, stacked neatly, awaiting their turn to
become a part of some city playground, are huge
piles of building blocks, paving blocks, copings,
drinking fountains, park benches both plain and
fancy, horseshoe boxes, curbings, foundations for
handball and shuflieboard courts and ping pong
tables. At the other end of the line are other earn-
est youths who are grading, constructing walks, '
straightening the high wire fences and painting
them, building substantial concrete retaining walls

and laying cement blocks and curbings. When the

last cement block has been laid
and the last tree planted, the city
of Cleveland will have seventeen
model playgrounds to gladden
the hearts of thousands of chil-
dren who can forsake the danger -
,of city streets for a safe and
happy sanctuary.

93

94 YOUTH TO THE RESCUE!

In the basement of Brookside Zoo, another
group began their work repairing an almost un-
believable mass of broken slides, rusty swings
trailing rusty chains and splintered seats, teeters
which are tottering, and the vast hodge-podge of
faulty equipment which has accumulated through
the years.

In another room is a different scene. Here are
slides, repaired and painted, swings whose chains
gleam in the. light with a coat of aluminum paint
skilfully applied, giant strides which fairly invite
the small Clevelander to give them a try. Where
a piece of equipment proves hopeless it is taken
apart and parts used to repair more hopeful cases.
Tools and equipment? Borrowed. Material? Odds
and ends of other equipment. The paint was
donated in large part by public-spirited Cleve-
landers.

Miles of Nets!

The girls in the NYA shared the honors at the
Central Avenue Bath House. Here a small net
factory is in operation. New basketball, tennis,
volley ball and ping pong nets are being made and
old ones are repaired. This project was started in
the basement of the City Hall at first without even
the aid of looms. The girls followed the proced-
ure shown in a picture in a magazine. The knots,
however, would not stay
put. When the project
was moved out to its
present quarters a su-
pervisor was put in
charge who had been in
the navy for eighteen
years. With the aid of
his nautical knowledge
the girls have learned to
tie a good many knots
per hour.

All these girls had to
start with was six
pounds of nails, twelve
pounds of nuts and

Large quantities of net
are being made for Jrhe
play areas of Cleveland
by eager young workers

bolts, fifteen pounds of linen twine, and nine
pieces of lumber! With the lumber the supervisor
fashioned a loom, and with this the girls have
made rapid progress. The nets are thoroughly
tested as the girls finish them and then they re-
ceive a waterproof treatment which is the old
navy man’s secret formula.

All the city playgrounds and tennis courts will
now have real nets at surprisingly low cost-rand
the knots will not slip!

A miniature playground, the work of a young
NYA artist, has been viewed by visitors from all
over the United States. Occupying the space of
an'ordinary table top, it shows a finished play-
ground with benches, drinking fountains, walks
built of cement blocks in mosaic patterns, volley
ball and basketball courts, slides, swings, shelter
house and shade trees.

The outcome of it all? Many young people who
otherwise would have been unemployed after the
summer season have worked throughout the win-
ter on these NYA projects learning skills which
will help them enter industry. Donations by pub-
lic-spirited citizens, a few borrowed tools chiefiy
from the WPA warehouse, scraps of lumber and
a small outlay by the city and NYA will result in
seventeen new playgrounds, all of which will be
completed by the end of the summer. '

 

It takes imagination to see
a recreation center in an
old bakery, and plenty of

hard work's Involved in

making it a reality, but
New Bedford had "what

it takes!"

the Mayflower Bakery building in New Bed—
ford, Massachusetts, is again satisfying a
great hunger —_,the hunger of youth for recrea-
tion! Dark and empty for months, as the North
~, End Community Center, this building has become
 one of the most active of the city’s fifteen WPA
recreation centers.

THOUGH no longer serving its original purpose,

   
    
  
   

The history of the transformation of the bakery
is an interesting one. Last summer, William
Dimock, WPA Recreation Supervisor, seeing the

,crowds flocking to the playground opened on the

former Bristol Mill site, was impressed with the
iimportance of providing winter recreational fa—
cilities in the same locality. His search for a
building to house activities disclosed a single pos-
sibility—a vacant bakery building taken over by
'the city for taxes. There were, of course, some
obstacles in the way of securing the use of the
building, but WPA leaders, aided by determined
' citizens, overcame opposition and saved the build-
ing from demolition.

With the c00perati0n of the WPA, the New
Bedford Building Department put the building in
condition for use. A staircase and fire escape were
added to make it conform with safety require—
ments. Heating was installed by using salvaged
heating equipment from other buildings. Light
was made adequate and a platform. was put up in
the large upstairs hall to serve as a stage. The

From Bakery to Recreation Center

 

The girls are very proud of the looms
which +hey have made from cigar boxes

bakery bins with their tiled walls still occupy their
accustomed places; the overhead conveyors are in
no one’s way and therefore no expense has been
incurred to remove them. The essential require—
ments have been met—the building is light, safe
and warm and provides the necessary space. The
average attendance of about 360 boys and girls
each day and evening proves that makeshift quar—
ters matter little as long as the activities they
house are attractive.

There was no difficulty in making the center
known. Principals of schools in the locality, at
Mr. Dimock’s request, announced the opening
date of the center as November 20th. Nothing re-
mained except to handle theresultant rush for
cards giving privilege of attendance and to sort
out the eager people into age and interest groups.

The center is open twelve hours a day—from
9 :00 A. M. to 9:00 P. M. Attendance is light dur-
ing early morning hours, being limited for the most
part to unemployed boys and girls past school age
who drop in from time to time. The center be-
comes alive, however, shortly after II :30 A. M.
when children from the near-by school pour in
to spend their noon hour after eating the lunch-
eon they have brought from home.

There is a lull again after I :30 when school
resumes, but with the dismissal of school at 3:00
and 3 :30 the tide of boys and girls pours in again.

95

96 FROM BAKERY TO RECREATION CENTER

Those under fourteen must leave for home by
8 :00 o’clock at the latest. but another hour of ac-
tivity continues for the older boys and girls.

The girls’ cluhs__meet in two upstairs rooms
from 3:00 to 8:00 15. M. and girls have a choice of
athletics, ping pong, tap dancing, and arts and
crafts. The ceilings of the building are too low
for basketball but newcomb and volley ball are
possible and are popular. Games for boys are con—
ducted in the downstairs quarters.

There are five ping pong tables, twenty game
tables, and two tables for reading. Mr. Dimock
and his assistants collect large supplies of maga-
zines which appeal to many of the children be-
tween games.

Community singing is frequently organized and
amateur dramatic programs are arranged. Fathers’
and mothers’ nights have been held bringing out a
large attendance. ‘

Behavior problems have been few and they are
easily handled. The exceptional boy or girl who
persists 'in misbehaving is asked to tUrn in his or
her card and stay away from the center. The few
whom it has been necessary to discipline in this
way were told that they could return and talk over
the question of readmission when they felt they
were ready to try again. One day of staying out-
side has usually been sufficient.

One requirement is that the attendance cards
must be shown to a worker on each visit to the
center. In this way a complete attendance record
is kept.

The staff of the center consists of five men and
five women instructors working on a shift basis,
a woman attendant in the girls’ quarters, in addi-

tion to three door attendants, three janitors and a
watchman.

Other Youth Centers

The Mayor of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, has
given the use of the city hall basement to the
N YA as a community center for the youth of the
city. One of the 'two large rooms is serving as a
reading and game room and is equipped with ping
pong, dart baseball, table shuffieboard, checkers
and other quiet games. Between 75 and 100 boys
a day visit the center. A second room is being
equipped to attract girls. The N YA is also hold— _
ing classes for both boys and girls in the high
school gymnasium.

In Sunbury, Pennsylvania, a parish house is
being utilized as a youth center. The building has

a small gymnasium which can be used for volley
ball and low organized games, an auditorium with
a small but serviceable stage, a club room which is
used by the sewing class, and a game room which
will be used for ping pong and quiet games. Four
dramatic groups have been organized which will
put on a play every two weeks. In cooperation
with the Pennsylvania Safety Council, the NYA
is broadcasting dramatizations to help in the
movement to reduce accidents in the state.

Meadville, Pennsylvania, has opened a recrea-
tion hall for its youth on the third floor of a
building in a business district. There is'a large
Open game room which is used every afternoonl
and three evenings a week for ping pong, check—
ers, dart baseball and similar games. There is a
stage which has been built by the boys, a class-
room, a workshop and an office. The average at-
tendance is thirty-five in the afternoon, forty-five
in the evening. In the classroom there are classes
in sewing, weaving and basketry for girls, with
woodworking for boys. There are also classes in
painting, music and drama, attended by both boys I
and girls. |

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt in her syndicated
column, “My Day,” speaks of the youth centers
she has seen in the course of her travels. escrib-
ing one in‘ El Reno, Oklahoma, she says:

“The boys and girls have done all the work on
this little house. At the back the boys have a shop ’
in which they did the plumbing, wiring and car-
pentry work. The girls have made curtains, will
do cooking and will have a room in which type-
writers and sewing machines are available. This ~
will be a recreation and work center to encourage
young people to learn new things outside of school'l
that may be useful in their daily lives. I think any I
community will be interested in this and may find '
greater possibilities than they had first visualized 
for helping the young people of the community to ’
develop a variety of new interests,”

The Recreation Commission of Mt. Vernon, N.
Y., is conducting a community center for girls
with club rooms open from 3:00 to 5 :30 and from
7 :30 to 9 :30 P. M. Classes are conducted in cook-
ing, sewing, folk dancing, dramatics, handcraft and ’
music, and special interest groups are organized.
Parties are held several times during the year‘I
When the club rooms are not being used by the\
girls, there is a program for mothers consisting of 
classes in sewing and mending, knitting and cook—
ing. While the mothers are in classes their chil— ’
dren are provided with play activities.

l A Parade ls Passing By!

' for preparation.

L'I‘I-IOUGH county-wide approval had greeted
A our 1935 Playground Circus as a climaxing
event of the playground season, the super-
visors and workers of Fairmont’s fourteen play-
grounds were unwilling to take the easy way of
merely repeating for the 1936 season something

. that had been done before, however successfully.

It was decided that the 1936 event would be a
Playground Revue of the Nations including a
parade with floats through the city and a revue in
a large auditorium.

It was an ambitious choice, but we wished to
impress the citizens of Fairmont with the import-
ance of our recreational prOgram. A director and
costume designer were appointed and plans were
soon under way. The venture quickly enlisted the
interest of several citizen groups in Fairmont.
Within two days of its announcement local
merchants had donated fourteen trucks to be dec-
orated as Heats, one for each playground. The
American Legion, city band, state and city police
and other groups joined in the enterprise. Each
playground worked diligently on its float and part
in the revue, for only three weeks were allowed
Costumes were made on the
playground under the supervision of the costume
designer. Awards
were offered for
the best float and
revue numbers.

Our efforts were
m o r e t h a n r e -
\varded. The pa:
rade was acclaim-
ed as one of the
finest to be held in
the city in many
years. It was head-
ed by the state and
city police follow-
ed by three open
touring cars, new
automobiles loan~
ed by local deal—
ers, in which rode
the playground of-
flcials, the Mayor
of the city'and the
County Superin-

 

By PATRICK A. TORK

Playground Director
Fairmon‘l‘. West Virginia

tendent of Schools. Next came the American
Legion drum and bugle corps in gay uniforms,
one hundred members strong. Three hundred
children rode in the parade on decorated bicycles
and another eight hundred rode on the floats and
walked.

Midway in the parade came the Fairmont city
band of seventy members, all in uniform. There
were also live small ponies, ridden by children in
the costumes of cowgirls and cowboys. Then fol-
lowed the floats. With each playground’s float
another country came in View. One playground
presented Hawaii. An open truck bed was cov-
ered with artificial grass borrowed from a funeral
home, and palms borrowed from florists and ga-
rages. A number of children rode on it, dressed
in grass skirts and playing ukeleles. A large de-
partment store sponsored the float for a play-
ground presenting Holland. The store had deco-
rated one of its own trucks as a Dutch tulip gar-

(Continued- on page 116)

Jr

Millions of Books—and Recreation

They said it was a crazy experiment, that it iust
couldn’t be done; but it was, and now we may own
the books we thought we never could afford to buy!

AYOUNG STUDENT sat in a Harvard classroom
during the early days of the depression. It

was “English 32,” to be exact. From day to
day the learned professor instilled into the minds
of some of the students a deep—seated love of good
literature. From day to day the professor paced
the floor, gazed out of the window and commented
on the high price of books for depression readers.
He suggested to his students’ a .few places where
good books could be had at cheap prices. For most
students these remarks were passed over'casually.
Their interest was centered primarily in passing
their eramination in “English 32.”

To one student, however, these simple day by
day remarks were tremendously significant. He
got a deep—seated love of good literature, but along
with that he got a great idea, namely, that people
who wanted to read good books might be able to
get them at a price they could afford. He dis-
cussed the matter with a few interested friends.
All were agreed that something ought to be done
about it. But what and how? Libraries and
schools were closing their doors. Unemployment
was at its height. Publishers, authors and book
dealers were unable to see any hope ahead. To
most people the suggestion of starting a new en-
terprise was sheer folly.

But the book idea stuck. Over a period of
months Sherman F. Mittell and his friends made
extensive studies of “book costs and selling prices,
of printing operations, methods of distribution
and general practices used in promoting the sale
of reading matter, good or bad.”

This grOUp of friends, in the words of Mr.
Mittell, “always came back to
the world of books and to the
satisfying discussion and play
of ideas with which this real
world provided them. They re-
sented the stupidity that pre-
vented ideas and books from be—-
ing shared and widely dissemi-
nated. Culture in the broadest

98

The National Home Library Foun-
dation is an exceedingly interest-
ing proiect with which readers of
Recreation will wish to be in touch.
The information presented here is
based on a personal interview with

Mr. Mittell and on the reading of his
article in the January I937 issue of

the Journal of Adult Education.

sense had no real opportunity to take root in
America. Now perhaps while the depression was
deepest, the time might be ripe to extend knowl—
edge to the furthermost limits; to reach out to the
great masses in order that they, too, might think
and know, and so might have a real stake in the
Democratic experiment.”

In November, 1932 this group of friends met
in Washington and established the National Home
Library Foundation. In their application for a
charter they stated the following aims:

I. To promote and inculcate in more people the
desire to read good literature.

2. To make home libraries more easily available
to greater numbers of our population.

3. To urge the reading of good literature through
printed announcements, radio broadcasts and
newspapers.

4. To provide for the holding of lectures, exhibits,
public meetings, classes and conferences, cal-
culated to advance the cause of education and
promote the general culture of the nation.

The charter was granted and business was be-
gun. The sheer daring of the early venture is fas-

cinating. There are some ten thousand titles pub-
lished in America each year with an average sale

known to be less than one thousand copies each. '

This means high costs and that costly books are
read by few. The Foundation took its cue from
the field of magazines that have over a million cir-
culation: If magazines could be published at low
cost, why couldn’t books? In fact, they could.
They found that a paper covered book could be
produced in quantities of 100,000 at 6V2¢ a copy.
If twelve such books could be printed at one time
in editions of 100,000 each, the
cost could be cut still more. So
the plunge was made on the
basis of twelve volumes of
100,000 copies each, or 1,200,000
copies! The first titles were:'

The New Testament

Emerson’s Essays

Green Mansions

(Continued on page 118)

l

WORLD AT. PLAY

 

ON E night each week
at the Danville, Illi-
nois, community cen-
ter is given over en-
tirely to a program of activities planned especially
for the high school and college age boy and girl.
Mixed parties and socials are planned and en—
couraged, and the young people gather for party
games, table games, dancing and old-time square
dancing. On the principle that eating together
makes people more congenial and happy, pot luck
sttppers are made regular events of the program.

Young People’s
Nights

THE Extension Pro—
gram of the Division
of Dramatics, Pennsyl—
vania State College,
maintains a play library service available to all
citizens of the state. Thousands of plays of all
types are in the library and they will be sent to
anyone who wishes to read them at a charge of 10
cents for a long play, 5 cents for a short play, and
25 cents for a book treating some phase of dra-
matic production. Books and plays may be kept
for two weeks. The Division is prepared to send
- a member of its staff to any community in Penn—
sylvania to assist in the production of a play. The
charge for this service consists of the expenses of
the coach plus a small fee for service. The Di-
vision is also prepared to give advice on the con-
struction of a theater or auditorium and to draw
up plans for the installation of electrical equip—
ment and scenery designs. For a nominal fee the
Penn State Players will produce one of their reg—
ular performances in any Pennsylvania community.

Drama Program for
Pennsylvania

FROM May 22nd to
28th, the fourth an-
nual National F o 1 k
Festival will be held in
Chicago, Illinois, under the auSpices of the Adult
Education Council of Chicago and its ninety co-
operating agencies. Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott
writes that she will be interested in hearing from
recreation executives, particularly from those in
the Midwest who are developing a particular
phase of folk expression which they would like to
have represented in the National Folk Festival.
Miss Knott may be addressed at 220 South Michi—
gan Avenue, Chicago.

Fourth Annual National
Folk Festival

 

M O R E than 1,500
boys are enrolled in
the boys’ club which
has been organized in
Dearborn, Michigan, through the cooperation of a
number of agencies. The Board of Education pro-
vides the building; the City Recreation Depart-
ment furnishes the heat, light and supplementary
personnel; the public library has stocked a reading
room, and the service clubs, Kiwanis in particular,
have raised an initial fund of $2,000.

A Boys’ Club for
Dearborn

 

 

HERSHEY, Pennsyl-
vania, according to the
February issue of The
American City, has
dedicated to sport an arena that will,,seat 7,ioo
peOple for ice hockey and 10,000 for sports that
do not require a large rink. The new arena, which
has been eight months in building, is the largest
span monolithic concrete structure in America and
the only one of its kind in the United States. It is
rectangular in shape, 232 feet wide and 362 feet
long. There is not a pillar or a column anywhere
visible. 'Though Hershey is a town of only 2,500,
it is fast coming to be known as an outstanding
sports center, drawing people from a radius of
75 miles. It has four golf courses and the cham-
pionship links of the Hershey Country Club. A
stadium accommodating 30,000 spectators will be
completed next year.

A New Sports
,Center

 

THE Buffalo, New
Y ork, Society of Nat-
ural Sciences, which
conducts the School in
the Forest in cooperation with the New York
State Museum and the Allegany State Park Com—
mission, has announced that the eleventh season
of the school will open on July 4, extending
through August zlst. College credit courses de—
signed for teachers, students, camp leaders and
naturalists will be offered in the field of zoology,
entomology, botany, nature study and birds by in—
structors experienced in field and laboratory work.
Dr. Robert B. Gordon of Ohio State University
will be director of the school. Information may be
secured from Miss Esther W. Eno, registrar at
the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, Buffalo,

New York.

The Allegany School of
Natural History

 

99

100 WORLD AT PLAY

 

at...) Every day, in spring, sum-

mer and fall, thousands of young peo-
ple use the athletic field, the tennis court, the track,
the baseball diamond, the indoor cage, for the kind
of play that is intended to produce strong muscles
and sturdy frames.

The perplexing question that is constantly before
the athletic instructor is “how shall we treat these
play areas to produce clean, healthy, compact, dust-
less, natural surfaces.”

The Solvay Calcium Chloride treatment is the
answer. It binds the surface through its compact-
ing action and prevents surface cracking and weed-
growth—does away with dust entirely—reduces
the danger of infection—cuts sunglare to a mini-
mum—all at a cost so low that it can be fitted
without strain into today’s reduced budgets.

Solvay Calcium Chloride has for many years been
used by leading schools, universities and athletic as-
sociations. It is a clean, odorless, and harmless
material that may be applied either by hand or
spreader just as it comes from the package (in
small white flakes) . It does not affect tennis balls or
other equipment. Complete information will be sent
upon request.

I

S 0 LVAY

TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride
SOLV_AY SALES CORPORATION

Alkaltes and Chemical Products Manufactured by
The Salvay Process Company

40 Rector Street

 

New York

 

" buildings.

A New Park Given Detroit—Charles Howell
of Detroit, Michigan, has given to the'city a park
consisting of I 38 acres along a river valley which
will be known as Elizabeth Howell Park. The
Park Department, to whom the park has been
given, will develop it as a neighborhood park with
playground and picnic areas.

A Garden Center in Fort Worth —- Fort
Worth, Texas, has a garden center sponsored by
the Garden Club, the Board of Education and the
Park Department. The Garden Club and the
Board of Education pay the salary of the director
of the center, while the Park Department pro—
vides the building and the utilities. Carefully de-
signed and constructed by CWA, the center is an
attractive building with a main reading room
paneled with knotty pine and furnished with early
American furniture. On either side of the curved
mantel over the fireplace are two well Elled book-
'shelves. It is the aim of the center to provide the
visitor with books or other literature on garden-
ing and related subjects. Many garden magazines
are also available and a clipping service is main-
tained. There is, too, a most unusual herbarium
containing over 8,500 specimens collected from all
parts of the world. The director of the center
conducts regular classes in garden subjects and
general nature study. These classes, both for adults
and children, are free. There is a Saturday morn-
ing story hour for children at which attention is
called to the best children’s books. Special stress
is laid on the art Of table decoration, one indi-
vidual or club being responsible each week for
this display. Of particular value is the fact that
the garden center is immediately adjacent to the
conservatory which is a part of the Fort \Vorth
botanic garden. Not only does such an arrange-
ment lend effectiveness to the work of the center,
but the presence of such an institution does much
to popularize the botanic garden.

At Highland Park, Michigan — Highland
Park, Michigan, has extended its program under
the leadership of ‘H. G. Myron, who has been
serving as recreation executive about two years.
Last summer eleven playgrounds were operated.
Eight school buildings were used during the past
winter as community centers, as were two other
The budget for the year beginning
July I, I936, amounts to $27,000, half of which
is appropriated by the city and half by the Board
of Education; In addition, about $38,000 is being

,l
l
l

’J. E. PORTER CORP.

WORLD AT PLAY 101

STILL TOPS!‘

“J UN GLEGYM” Climbing Struc-
tures-—-—ten years after introduction
and now in use in thousands of
schools—hold lirst place among
play devices because of their safety,
economy, all year round utility and
popularity with children. Accom-
modate greatest number of children
in limited play space. No danger
from moving or swinging parts.
Nothing to wear out. Furnished in
variety of sizes. J. E. Porter Corpo-
ration oches in principal cities.

Ask for new Booklet RE 1.

  

Manufacturers of Louden Gym-
nasium. Swimming Pool and
Playground Equipment, Spaid-
ing Gymnasium Equipment.

OTTAWA
ILLINOIS

 

 

spent on a community building, $12,000 of which
was appropriated from city funds and the balance
from WPA. The building is on school property
and the Board of Education, according to the plan,
will pay for the upkeep of the building over a
period of years. The center will include a gym-
nasium 102’ by 60’ with lockers and showers, two
club rooms and a'recreation department office.

A Drama Tournament in Somerville—Spon-
sored by the Recreation Commission of Somer—
ville, Massachusetts, the Federated Boys’ Clubs in
March conducted a drama tournament. The four
plays presented by the four clubs conducting the
tournament were—“The Jest of Hahalaba,” “The
Valiant,” “Copy,” and “A Message from Khufu.”
Governor Hurley of Massachusetts sent a mes-
sage to the clubs.

The Big Bend International Peace Park—
“A gesture toward international good will,” is the
description of Arno B. Cammerer, Director of the
United States National Park Service, in speaking
of the project whereby the proposed Big Bend

National Park of Texas, comprising 788,000 acres
of scenic wilderness, will be linked by bridge
across the Rio Grande with a 400,000 acre na-
tional park which the Mexican government is tak-
ing steps to establish in the states of Chihuahua .
and Coahuila. The two will form the Big Bend
International Peace Park. Steps to carry out the
congressional authorization for the establishment
of the park are being taken at the present session
of the Texas legislature. It will be the first na-
tional park in the country’s largest state. The
area is a vast wilderness almost untouched by the
march of civilization. It contains more than 200
species of birds and over 60 species of mammals.

A Nature Guide School in Massachusetts—

The Massachusetts State College at Amherst,
Massachusetts, will conduct a nature guide school
this summer to train leaders in various phases of
nature activity and to develop an added under-
standing and appreciation of outdoor surround-
ings. An effort will be made to equip young men .
and women for such positions as ranger natural-
ists for national parks, nature counselors in sum-

102 WORLD AT PLA Y

"Bringing Up Father”

APROFESSIONAL MAN in New York City, after

an unusually hard week with long. hours of
exacting detail, returning home had placed in his
hands the following program of a concert ar-

ranged and presented for his exclusive benefit,-

with him as the entire audience. The program it-
self was the work of the eight year old violinist.

P’QMO Mrs /3w 778;-

JVIo/m RoéeeTaw-r/e,
TCGVO 0n IV 5w 7761'

he cm W arr/,7 will W
Their/I'st V6065 o F Mnemoq.

mic/50m OFT/IE oT‘he r son/as

 

Pray/ram

Ll'Boccree—N'Wa/IHw/o (if-Trio
571v The, G/oan/h oar—(U4 50/0
6 flu/J Lanw/w 56/0
7 0// 18/ch Jory—Tn,

mer camps, scout naturalists, and 4-H club lead-
ers. The course will be conducted from July 6th

to August 14th, with variations to be offered in
the course in successive summers over a four
year period. In the first year of the course study
will be made of birds, ponds and streams, and in
nature guidance and in practical and field nature
experience. Dr. William G. Vinal will be di—

rector of the school.

A Course in Folk Festival Production and
Folk Dancingw—The American Institute of
Normal Methods announces a special course in
folk festival production and folk dancing for su—
pervisors of physical education and recreation
workers to be held at Eastern School, Lasell
Junior College, Auburndale, Massachusetts, July
7-28. The course will be directed by Stella Marek
Cushing, well known interpreter of Slavonic lands
and an authority on folk festival production. The
course will be offered daily for three weeks from
4:15 to 6:00 P. M., one session being devoted to
production details, the other to actual participa-
tion in folk dances. Further information may be
secured from Charles E. Griffith, business mana—
ger and secretary, 39 Division Street, Newark,
New Jersey.

1937 Leadership Institutes—The Coopera-.

tive Recreation Service of Delaware, Ohio, Lynn
Rohrbough, Director, announces the following in—
stitutes to be held during May and June:

Ohio Creative Leisure Institute, May I7—22;
Camp Wildwood, Westerville, Ohio. (Write R.

B. Tom, Ohio State University, Columbus.)

Tri-State School of Leisure, May 30-June 4;
Camp Hauberg, Port Byron, Illinois. (Reverend

D. C. Ellinwood, Rushville, Illinois.)

Second Cooperative Recreation School--—June
7-18 at Grandview College; for cooperative lead-

ers. (Dr. C. A. Olsen, Grandview College, Des
Moines, Iowa.

Michigan Recreation Institute——June 18—26 at

Ashland Folk School. (Write Margaret Graham.
Grant, Michigan.)

An Error Corrected

The caption under the picture on page 29 of the
April issue of RECREATION should have read,
“Courtesy Atlanta, Ga., Camp Fire Girls.” This
is a particularly interesting picture showing as it
does twin sisters taking part in the Silver Jubilee
of the Camp Fire Girls.

 

WORLD AT PLAY 103

The First National Boy Scout Jamboree—:—
More than 25,000 Boy Scouts from all parts of
the country will meet in Washington on June 30th
to take part in the Jamboree which will last until
July 9th. The Jamboree will be of special sig-
nificance in that it will be the hrst national one
ever held. The boys will live in a tented city of
their own on the banks of the Potomac, camping
on 350 acres loaned them by the Congress of the
United States.

A Training Course for Camp Counselors—-
For the third year Surprise Lake Camp at Cold
Spring, New York, is offering a training course
for camp counselors for a nine weeks’ period dur-

ing the months of July and August. Information-

may be secured from Mr. Mordecai Kessler, Di-
rector of Training, SurpriseaLake Camp, Cold
Spring, New York.

A Few More Playground Suggestions
(Continued from page 61)

an abandoned strip coal mine, now become a pond
where hundreds of canvasback ducks stop over
on their migration north. Other groups may
choose to visit the grave of “Uncle Joe” Cannon,
former speaker‘of the Honse, or the tombs of
The King of Carnivals and the King of the
Gypsies, listening to the stories of the lives of
these men as related by the guide, One club
has discovered a wooded area so dense as to be

  

  

For Enriching the
Summer Camp Experience

CAMPING ,AND GUIDANCE

By Ernest G. Osborne

The author, a member of the staff of the Child
Development Institute of Teachers College, Co—
lumbla University, describes in a concrete prac—
tical way with non—technical language how the
camp experience may help in the emotional and
soc1al adjustment of the individual camper. Actual
cases to vitalize the camp problems and the ap-
proaches he suggests. 0f unusual practical value
to all camp administrators and counselors.

Cloth, 198 pages $2.00 (Just Published)

MONOGRAPHS ON CHARACTER

EDUCATION in SUMMER CAMPS
By Hedley S. Dimock and others

Every year 300 or more representatives from all
types of camps participate in the discussion of
character values of camping and camp standards
at the Camp Institute held under the .‘ioint direc—
tion of George Williams College and the Chicago
Council of Social Agencies. The monographs below

are the reports of these discussions for the years
1933, 1934, 1935, and 1936.

No.1 0n objectives; program building; in—

 

dividual campers; training leaders.... 50c
No. 2 0n guidance and supervision . . . . . . . . .. 50c
No.3 On setting standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 75c
No. 4 0n putting standards into operation in

the summer camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$1.00

Through your bookseller or from

ASSOCIATION PRESS
347 Madison 'Avenue, New York

If You Are Concerned

With Playgrounds/7

0 Are you going to be a playground director

almost inaccessible but a spot where there is tim-
ber aplenty to try their hand at log cabin con-

i ' o
structlon. thlS summer? Are you a member of a

When the boys return from a hike with their board in Charge Of a recreation Program?

lguide each one receives a card certifying his at-

tendance at the hike. When any one of the boys
' has accumulated ten hike certificates he is entitled
: to go on an over-night hike, Which in the jargon . 0 Whatever your association with play-

Or are you a public-spirited citizen inter-
ested in seeing that your community has
an adequate playground system?

of the day, is “tops” in the boy’s mind. On school
holidays, all day hikes are very much in demand
and many boys are finding new adventure and
thrill heretofore unknown.

On rainy days when the boys cannot go into the
country they work like beavers equipping their
club rooms in the centers, making posters to dec-
orate the walls, or enjoying stereopticon views
loaned to the community centers by the public
library. Sometimes the boys gather in their club
rooms to pour over nature magazines or to work
on their scrap books of birds, pets, or any other
newly discovered hobby.

3l5 Fourth Avenue

grounds, you will want to know of the
book, “Playgrounds——-Their Administra-
tion and Operation,” by George D. Butler,
which has 402 pages of practical informa-
tion on the operation of playgrounds. It
is the only book devoted exclusively to this
subject, and the playground Worker and
oiiicial will find it invaluable.

. . . Price $3.00

National Recreation Asssociation
New York City

104 r"SOMETHING OLD—SOMETHING NEW”

a Playground

Ln Lts e  The Haskell Climb-

A-Round is an endless source of fun and safe
recreation for children of all ages—at all sea-
sons. Large groups may use it at one time for free
play or directed body-building ex-
ercise. It is solidly constructed of
heavy galvanized steel tubing, with
rounds for climbing and swinging
and central poles for sliding. There
are no moving parts and no sharp
corners or rough edges to tear the
clothing or injure the hands. This
apparatus is easy to set up, indoors
or out; no installation cost, and
the low first cost is the last.

Write for full particulars and
prices on the various Climb-A-
Round models and sizes.

   

W. E. HASKELL, INC, 842 State Street, Springfield, Masai

N. Y. (Mice: BRAUN & SNYDER, 16 West 61st Street.

 

 

Up to the present time the Pokagon Club news-
paper has been edited by the nature guide through
the department office. Subsequent numbers are to
be edited in turn by the center clubs. “We are of
the opinion,” writes Robert Horney, Superintend-
ent of Recreation, “that by building on plans
which we have for the future, our nature clubs
will not be seasonal but a part of our continuous
year—round program.”

"Something Old—Something New"

( Continued from page 62)

similar to battledore and shuttlecock from which
it is believed our modern tennis also descended.

Table Tennis. Another sport of which a great
deal is being heard these days is table tennis (ping
pong to you!). It has become so generally used
as a parlor game and in recreation rooms that it

is more or less familiar to everyone. Table tennis _

dates back to the gay 90’s when it was one in
popularity with bicycles built for two and bustles.
In fact, during that time it was played largely as
a parlor game in the full costume of the period,

Chicago Office: IRWIN P. RIECER, 326 W. Madison Street '
I

and due to the tight lacings which the ladies en-
dured a ball retriever was invented for recover- I
ing the balls from the fioor! It was first played
on the floor across a net with a small ball covered l
with a knitted web and the battledore of battledore
and shuttlecock. Later it. came up in the world .g
and was elevated to the table. A _'

Deck Tennis. Another sport of more recent ori— i
gin and one which has only recently come into :
marked popularity is deck tennis, sometimes
known as ring tennis, quoit tennis or tenniquoit. I
This is a game similar to tennis except that in-
stead of striking a ball with a racket, a ring of
rope or rubber is tossed back and forth. Like
shuffleboard, deck tennis had a marine beginning '
and was first devised shortly before the time of
the World War as a substitute for tennis on ship— I
board. Later it came ashore and has become ex— I
tremely popular as a land sport.

i.

1'
And Now They Come Into the Home! 

No doubt one of the factors which accounts ‘
for the rise of these old-new sports to the surface

MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 105.

of the consciousness of an already sport-loving

American public is the fact that they lend them- " ‘ U N I]u G O
selves so admirably to home use. Few of us are

fortunate enough to have space in our backyards For Playground Rumba“
for a football gridiron, a baseball diamond, a Pm“ Pwdint
swimming pool or a tennis court. But who cannot
find space for a shuffleboard court? Even a strip
of concrete driveway will serve nicely. And a
Badminton court or deck tennis court may be
tucked in between the garage and the rows of
spinach. Even if you are a city dweller the roof
of your apartment building offers opportunities
not to be overlooked. As for indoor sports, in
these days of rejuvenated basements (now that
the old-time furnace has been relegated to the
junk heap), space which has previously been oc-
cupied by unsightly piles of coal is now dedicated
to King Sport. What is more, the whole family
can join in the fun. At such sports as shuffle-
board, horseshoes and table tennis, Junior may
prove to be too much for his dad, much to the
chagrin of the latter-—a chagrin tempered, how-
ever, by the immense satisfaction at having found
something that father and son can play together.

A nation at play is an end to be desired, and
whole families-at play in their own backyards are
even more desirable. So here’s to the backyard
sports—once the sport of kings and now within
the grasp of even the humblest household! Long
may they continue to grow and flourish, for “the
hours that make us happy make us wise.”

Music on the Playground
(Continued from page 66)

They should as individuals sometimes make some
of the music by singing it or playing it, however
simple and crude their efforts may be.

Other Activities

The acting out of stories brings us to the acting
out of ballads in other songs while they are being
sung by the actors, or by substitute singers for
them, or by the whole audience. In this also we

 

 

are to depend on the children’s or older folks, - The solution of the outdoor basketball

own imaginations and actions as much as their eq‘Jipmem pmblem

interest will permit us to do. Dramatlzed Ballads 'EACH UNI'GOAL IS A

with Musical Accompaniment, by Janet Tobbitt COMPLETE GAME UNIT

and Alice White  P. Dutton & Co.), just off For particulars, write

She press, contains a wealth of material. In ad- Schutt Manufacturing Company
1tlon, the Old 74/ oman and the Peddler, I Had Litchfield' Illinois

a Little Nut Tree, The Tailor and the Mouse and

106 MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND

 

“We cannot speak too enthusiastically about i
this practical jewel of a book. It should be
greeted with loud cheers by every person re-
sponsible for camp, troop, or-other kinds of
programs.”—The Girl Scout Leader.

DRAMATIZED
B A L LAD S

With Musical Accompaniment
By JANET E. Toerrr and ALICE M. G. WHITE

. Delightful play material of a high stand-
ard, selected and carefully tried out by
two young women widely experienced in
musical and dramatic activities. Twenty
authentic ballad plays—presented with
musical accompaniment, directions for
pantomime, illustrated for costuming.
Ideal for presentation indoors or out-—-

.r suitable for acting by children of all ages

> or by grown-ups—easily memorized—
brief rehearsal—free of royalty fee—-
possessing true human values, variety of
moods, exceptional dramatic quality. With
infinite possibilities for rhythms, folk
dancing, simple but beautiful musical -
accompaniment. $2.00

E. P. DUTI'ON 6:. CO., Publisher
New York, N. Y.

 

300 4th Avenue

other songs suited to children’s acting are to be
' found in many a children’s song book. High
7 Germany, the Wraggle Taggle Gypsies and My
‘ Man John, for older boys and girls and adults,
are in the Cecil Sharp collection of English Folk
I Songs, and The Dumb Wife and The Jolly Broom
Man are in Volume II of the Oxford Song Book.
0 Soldier, Soldier in the Brown Twice 55 Com-
munity Songs is also a good one to act out. Any
of ,these is very well suited to be given in connec-
tion with a story-telling session or festival.

A number of articles the length of this one
should be written about playground festivals.

To think of instrumental musical activities
suited to playgrounds is to open another large
held beyondnour present space. By the time this
I article appears, a bulletin on rhythm bands will

have been issued by the National Recreation As-

sociation to companion its earlier publication on
The Making and Playing of Shepherds’ Pipes.

This pipe-making and playing is an ideal project

for a playground where it is respected as a craft
deserving much care and time. Booklets on how
to play or teach the harmonica are given free by
M. Hohner and Company, 351 Fourth Avenue,

    
   
    
   
  
  
   
   

New York. The ocarina or “sweet potato” de :
serves but perhaps does not need similar help. ‘
group of these homely but nice-sounding instru ?
ments, in dilierent sizes, can make very pleasan .

part—music.
Knowing of the large number of’ school bands

one wishes that during the summer there coul
be one or more bands of boys and girls in ever
city that would be to the playgrounds what adul
bands are to the parks in musically well—equippe
cities. They would also promote pride and loyal
toward the playgrounds, as they do toward th
schools of which they are members. In such
project, as in singing and many others, a capabl
junior leader may be found. among the hig
school or even less advanced pupils. The interes
and cooperation of the school director of musi
must of course be won for it.

For the sake of completeness we should men
tion operettas, pleading for careful choice to find
the best ones, “and suggesting that the National
Recreation Association’s bulletins on Operettas
for Children be consulted, together with some re-
cent works published by G. Schirmer, New York.
These have respectively to do with the lad
Shakespeare, the young John Sebastian Bach,
and with Joan of Arc, all of them for children or
young people, and all musically delightful and
everlasting. '

The better possibilities for-community nightsq
should also have at least one article to themselves.
But let us return for a moment to the singing“
with which we started this article, and remind the
reader that one of the most fruitful modes of
musical leadership on ‘a playground is the spon-
taneous humming and singing, often done with-
out intention, by any playground worker as he or
she goes about the daily chores and enjoys also
the intermissions. Even the dour old Carlyle said
“Blessed is the man who sings at his work.” Cer-
tainly there is no work in which it is more blessed
to sing than in that of a playground leader. Only -
let us remember with Carlyle’s friend, Emerson, i
that “Art is the record of good days,” and give I
children as much of a taste as we can of what is i
meant by “good days.” The playground leader’s I
main job with respect to music is to provide a as
total environment, himself included, that Willi
arouse the urge for musical expression and nour-ikl

ish it on the. best suitable music he can find and ire

learn and get his associates to lind and learn. The ;'

world is full of “swell” songs, as the boys would ‘

call them, that every leader should know. i !

PLAY STREETS: ASSETS OR LIABILITIES? 107 '

l TUMBLE-RINGS

. H'.\\\%5\M%M%%\\'MVM\“5'M\‘MW'INMMS'-\'{.'.\“WM‘.\\H\\\'.“\WM‘WNM‘- ".m
cow-ism was. by C.W.HORGAN, Chicago. In.

NEW and DIFFERENT OUTDOOR GAME

Played on any fairly level lawn or ground. The Main
Object: To make the TUMBLE—RINGS catch on a loosely-
suspended chain by rolling them to it.

FOr INDOOR PLAY write for information about
BAKINET, introduced at “A Century of Progress
Exposition, 1934."

Both games now in Chicago Park District Playgrounds.

TUMBLE—RINGS protected by Copyright. 1936. BAKINET
protected by U. S. and Canadian Patents.

C. W. MORGAN

1016 HYDE PARK BOULEVARD CHICAGO. ILL.

Play Streets: Assets or Liabilities?
(Continued from page 72)

carelessness. And yet, that is ,What the play street
tends to do.

The other argument for the continuation of the
play street is that the child has a play area at his
I own doorstep and can beneht from parental su-
pervision. This is a fallacy from the outset. Gen-
erally the father is away at work. The mother is
busy in the rear of the house. In the congested
section it is very rare that the parent actually
supervises the "play of the child. The parent is
much too busy to bother. Hence the plan for par-
ental supervision appears to be a vain hope, de-
spite the attempt to interest adults in “play street”
clubs and the like. And then, too, once adults take
over the play street activities, or begin to share
them with the children, it- is a service no longer
dedicated to the children of the city. Once again,
the play street fails.

New Horizions tor Camping
(Continued from page Z4)

(1) by its part in reducing the hours of labor,
(2) by expanding the area of Federal property
available for leisure time uses, and (3) by experi-
menting in bringing leisure time leadership to
areas that never had it. .He related leisure time
activity to a stirring, be sensed, in the fields of
culture and the arts, to a start in the building of a
society 'where beauty would be near the top. He
said camping had four possible ends, (I) as a
recreation agency, close to nature, (2) as an edu-
cative/agency through recreation, (3) as a money
making agency and (4) as an institution-building
agency. He questioned the group on their attitude
toward public agencies in the camping field, a

E

LEATHERCRAFT '
METALCRAFT
PEWTERCRAFT
BEADCRAFT
n. BLOCK PRINTING
CRYSTOLCRAFT 
 WOODCARVING’
' BASKETRT

 

in schools, camps' and playgroundsI we have '

increased our line to include all the above ‘
crafts.

Our supplies are unusually complete rang-
ing from the most inexpensive crafts for
small children to the more advanced cratts {
for skilled workers. We carry only the finest
of materials. Our products are guaranteed
and we take pride in ohr quick service.

Classes are conducted at our‘studio
afternoons. evenings and Saturday morn-
ings. The enrollment tee is nominal—all
tools used in the studio furnished tree.

Send tor a schedule.

Send 10c. for our new 64
page 1937 craft catalog

‘ AMERICAN
HANDICRAFTS
COMPANY

FORMERLY

FOLEY TRIPP CO.

Dept. R

193 William Street. New York City

108 ENJOYING NATURE— WHAT DOES IT MEAN?

SHUF F LEBOARD EQUIPMENT

$6.00. $8.00. $l0.00, $l5.00 Sets

(Rubber-tired and Composition Discs)
Aluminum Footed Cues

10 Cents Brings Plan of Standard Court

DAYTONA BEACH SHUFFLEBOARD CO. ‘
PHILMONT. N. Y.

     
     
    
    

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

A Health-Building Game
for Old and Young

Pitching Horseshoes is muscle-building rec-
reation that appeals to all types of people.
Install a few courts on your grounds, organ-
ize a horseshoe club, schedule a tournament.
Write for free booklets on club organiza-
tion, tournament play. etc.

Diamond Official Shoes and accessories
are the choice of professionals and ama-
teurs alike. It’s economy to purchase
equipment with the longest life.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE C0.
46|0 Grand Avenue Duluth. Minn.
Makers of DIAM 0ND OEicial Pitching Shoes

 

movement he saw as well on its way and neces-
sary and desirable. Some other questions he raised
were: Can camping be made available to all? How
can it be adapted to all age groups? (He enlarged
on the need of camping for the adult.) Can it
combine freedom and discipline? Can it use the
principles of progressive education? Where will
it get its leaders? He spoke of the need of mak-
ing camp leadership more than part-time work if
it were to become professional.

Mr. Lindeman named the camp as an institu-

tionalized social form whose basic problem is hu-—

man relations and said its effect should be defined
on family life, church life, school life, and com-
munity life. He saw its possibilities in assisting
the family to symmetrical growth, in teaching the

arts of participation, in making the individual more
capable of discrimination and in increasing the art
of contemplation. He exalted the camp as an es-I
sential ally in the new movement of culture and:
art.

Enioying Nature —What Does It Mean?

(Continued from page 78)

the game. With those tales as a first step, every
child was glad to listen. It was time later to go
more into the factual field of nature study. By
the time the boys were actually identifying mushw
rooms, bark and bird calls, they failed to realize
they had even drifted away from the adventurel
story and the legend. Their interest was 'just
naturally aroused, and it took very little urging1
on my part to encourage them to do their own:
exploring. I
Perhaps your students detest reading or hearing
some one read. And it is true, incidentally, thatal
poor reader will ruin a good story. A night spent
far removed from other humans will be an ex-
citing substitute. Thus it was that we turned to
camping at Hidden Lake, a body of water in a;
frog—infested swampland. There we would listen
to stories as we sat or squatted about a campfireI
with marshmallows roasting over the coals. After
that the boys could sleep, poke around in the un-II
derbrush, or sit quietly, listening for animal sounds.
It is well to take care not to confuse or discon-
cert the young nature student by breaking him in
with something beyond his comprehension. Young
pe0ple, as well as adults, must see value and bene-
fit in a task before they will perform it. It is the ‘
responsibility of the successful nature counselor to '
transform what might be a task into a pleasure, a '
type of game. 1
Visiting day at summer camp is always an in— i
teresting time for it is then that the adults go to I
school. I take a pilot snake or a blue racer from 1
its cage and they come closer. Ordinarily they
would run, but now their fascination surpasses
their fear. “How does it feel ?” “IS it wet?”
“Does it hurt much when it bites ?” These are the ‘
questions asked. Perhaps before we’re through
with our impromptu talk someone will venture to
touch the snake or even to hold it. 
Frog hunting is always a drawing card. On;
such a hunt the class is divided into groups, each\
one just large enough to be accommodated in one "
boat. Boys always get a lot of fun from cruising
along a weedy shore and poking under logs and

' (Continued on page 110)

. GULF SANI-SOIL-SET

,kA-Wr 1.; u. 9.. a.“

 Here is a public school playground which
...; was treated With GULF SANl-SOlL-SET
6 months before the photograph was
taken. It has been used daily by school
-as well as neighborhood children.

\

v

New Germicidal Compound . . . [1

24:1in app/fed. . [hex/221215112 . . [any [dating

ECREATION ofiicials now have a practical solution to the play-
ground dust problem!

.A new product—Gulf SANI-SOIL-SET—has been developed by Gulf for
dust allaying purposes on earth surface playgrounds. This material can

be applied at low cost. When properly applied, it will not harm or stain
clothes or shoes and under usual conditions of weather and soil, one
application per season will suffice.

Let a Gulf representative tell you more about GULF SANI-SOIL—SET.

GULF OIL CORPORATION—GULF REFINING COMPANY.

GENERAL OFFICES: GULF BUILDING. PITTSBURGH. PA.

GULF OIL CORPORATION . GULF REFINING COMPANY,
General Offices: Gulf Building. Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet "Gulf Sani-Soil-Set I
for Treating Playgrounds.” . I
I

Name , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

l'"_—————"I

|
I
I
|
|
I
|
|
I
|
|
|
|
|
I
|
|
|
I
|
|
|
|
|
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
L

 

110 OVERNIGHT CAMPING

  

 
 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

    
 

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

    

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY $75., CINCINNATI, OHIO

   

Enjoying, Nature"—What Does It Mean?
' (Continued from page 108)

lily pads. Another channel through which boys
drift to a naturalist’s life is the capturing of tur-
tles for a turtle derby. 'In short, let us work on
the assumption that nature study goes beyond
jars of preservatives and identification charts.

We tried something at one summer camp that
is appealing to both children and adults. We in-
troduced our campers to the stars. After our
nightly campfire we took them out onto the swim-
ming dock, where I gave a short talk on stars,
presenting some unusual facts, and pointed out a
few of the better known constellations. Did the
boys resent our making them go to school out
there beneath the stars? Not at all, for they
asked question after question and some of the
boys offered a few facts themselves. They were
capturing the mood of the true student of nature
-——the‘ friendly, share-all mood. They were going
to school but only in“ an informal and personal
way.

Demand cooperation but not subordination.
Make suggestions but don’t give orders. You will
get much farther by saying, “Let’s see how many
different leaves we can collect in thirty minutes,”

than if you commanded, “Today we will each be
required to find and bring. in the leaves of fifteen
different trees.”

Whether the study of nature is done in a class I
or by individuals, the keeping of notes is valuable
but should not be required. To force the child to
keep a notebook will send him back to school be- 1
fore vacation ends. We found that by placing a
small nature notebook at each camper’s place at
dinner on the first day we had no trouble in per-
suading him to write in it.

It makes no difference whether you are a child
or an adult, whether you are a member’ofan out-
door club or nature class or a lone eXplorer wish-
ing to find out what lies beyond the pavement, the
same technique will apply. Go into your work as
though it were a form of recreation—that is What'
it actually is. Don’t makea boresome job out of
nature study. Avoid trying to absorb everything
there is to be known in one summer or even a
year. An entire lifetime will not be sufficient time a
to learn all.

Enjoying nature does not necessarily mean
study, research and experiment. The hiker, the
angler, the hunter and the photographer all enjoy -
nature. Nature study is not, by any means, an
effeminate pastime. It is an ideal form of recrea-
tion because it is inexpensive,-it is constantly of-
fering something new and exciting, and there are
no limits to its scope.

Overnight Camping

(Continued from page 80)
respects similar to that of all boys’ or girls’ camps
except that it was necessary to give consider-
able instruction and assistance in correct meth-
ods of fire building and cooking. Though it was .-
suggested that each camper bring his own tent and '.
portable cot, few campers "did so. It was there-
fore necessary to give instruction as to the plac-
ing of bedding, the preparation of the' leaves and
twigs for the laying of blankets, and the necessity
of finding a level spot.

As expected, the great majority of boys and

. girls who go on the overnight camp trips are in-

experienced as campers. It was found that many
of them had never before been away from home
or away from parents'for two days and a night.
The successful conduct of the camp therefore a
depended on the ability and skill of the camp di-i
rector to a far greater extent than in larger camps I
which extend over a much longer period of time
and conseciuently have more adequate facilities
which make for easier adjustment to camp life.

WHAT GAMES FOR THE DAY CAMP? 11]

Unless there is a skilled and tested camp leader
available the overnight camp would better not be
l attempted. In localities where the weather is not
entirely dependable, and this is certainly true in
California in spite of all statements to the con-
trary, provision or arrangements for shelter in
case of unexpected rain must be made. Very often
provision may be made for the emergency use of
a nearby hayloft, clean stables, or a vacated build-
ing. If this cannot be done it is necessaryoto pro-
vide large portable tents or awnings or large
sheets of heavy canvas which would suffice until

. additional shelter could be procured.

 

 

Vallejo Plans a Camp

The general plan of overnight camps used in
Albany will be adopted in Vallejo this summer.
The City Recreation Commission of the City of
Vallejo, organized January I, 1937, has just

I started its year-round community program. Over—
night camping will be one of the features of the
first summer’s activity schedule. Several desir—
able sites will be available. More than r“one loca-
tion may be needed but arrangements are already
being made for the use of a mountain district
about fifteen miles out of town known as Green
Valley. Green Valley, which is owned by the city,
is a beautifully wooded canyon with an abundant
supply of good water, and is in use at the present
time, to a limited extent, for the city water supply.
A part of the area has already been set aside for
a Boy Scout Camp.

Numerous Vallejo organizations have been con-
ducting splendid camps for a number of years
and many individuals and families have availed
themselves of camping at various places through—
Iout the state. In spite of this fact the Vallejo
Recreation Commission, in making arrangements
for its overnight camps this summer, is planning

_to accommodate several hundred boys and girls .

many of whom have never before had the oppor-
tunity of experiencing at first hand the joy of liv—
ing among the wonders of nature’s great out-of-
doors.

What Games for the Day Camp?
( Continued from page 34)

The hiker bringing in the greatest variety of na-
ture articles or the most unusual, wins the score.

The fun element should permeate every phase
of the day camp program and the whole program
should be one glad game!

 
  

Send for

    
 

~ "Programs for

PLAYGROUan
CARIPS

RECREATION CENTERS”

a new report including two parts:

      
    
   

  

lst —Low cost projects. no special tools required.

2nd—Articles made with simple tools.

 
    

Also—ask for new Tool and Supply catalog—the
most complete ever issued. Free advisory
service. Teacher Training Courses.

     
    
 

2500 different projects ranging in
price from 3c. up. Budgets met.

  
  

4000 tools, materials, books,
project sheets carried in
stock for immediate shipment

    
    
    

Display at Booth 25—Recreation 00ngress
v' Atlantic City

UNIVERSAL SBHUUL 0F HANDIBRAFTS

Rockefeller Center. RKO Building
New York. N. Y. COlurnbus 5-0163

       

 
 
 

  

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

    
    
 

$3.00 Prepaid

  
 

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested

in swimming pools in any way.

    
     
    
   

  
  
  

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
'; 404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

 

   

Make all checks. money ordersi. etc..

 
 

“payable to Earl K. Collins

 
 

112

 

PUSTERS-PlAYS-PHUGHAMS
LESSON ounmes

 

Safety Materials
for the Teacher

0 The Education Division of the National
Safety Council offers a consultation and
publications service to the schools on all
problems relating to safety teaching.

0 A Special Safety Packet for Playground
Directors is now available. This is a valu-
able collection of materials to help the
playground director promote safety on the
. playground and consists of ten attractive
safety posters, crayon lessons for small
children, a short play and a program of
activities for supervised playgrounds.

Price $1.00

0 SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
provides the teacher with material for a
well—rounded safety program based on
seasonal hazards. The colored posters,
graded lesson plans, plays, stories, infor-
mational articles, accident facts, patrol
news items and other features are pre-
pared by school people who are experts
in the field of safety teaching.

Subscription—$1.00 a Year
0

EDUCATION DIVISION

National Safety CounciI
One Park Avenue. New York. N. Y.

“RIDE A COCK HORSE”

"Ride a Cock Horse"

(Continued from page 89)

They are organized as a boys’ mounted police ‘
troop and ride over reservation trails, practice.
police duty, learn the care of their horses, andl
receive instruction in equitation during each
training period. Members of the Watchung Girls’ I
Troop do practically the same things and receive
the same instructiOn as do the Rangers. Each year '
this group has a mounted picnic and gymkhana at
the end’of the training period. Formerly only
boys and girls with some previous riding experi-
ence were allowed to become members‘ of the
Rangers and Girls’ Troop, but this year beginners I
were also invited to join. The charge for a sea-
son’s membership is sixteen dollars, covering aI

training period of ten weeks. ,

A Boys’ and Girls’ Riding Club for children'
under twelve years of age was organized during.
1936. The quota of fifteen members set for this
class was soon reached and there is now a wait- '
ing list. On Thursday afternoons a women’s rid-
ing class composed mostly of teachers from West—
field ride at the stable.

Classes from three private and three public
schools have used the Watchung Stable for their
headquarters all season. Several of these have
had classes riding from the Watchung Stable for _
a number of years.

Activity at the stable continues throughout the
year. When heavy snows make it impossible to go
horseback riding, the ‘stable rents horse-drawn
sleighs for old—fashioned straw rides.

A Sheriff’s Posse

The glamour of the pioneer west is not entirely '
dead. It survives, among other places, in the
Sheriff’s Posse of El Paso, Texas, made up of
hard-riding, straight-shooting descendants of '
pioneer families.

Although this posse is connected with the
Sheriff’s Department through the Sheriff, it is not
in the employ of the city or county. It is a ser—
vice and recreational club drawn together by the .
Sheriff for three major purposes: to give aid in
times of emergency, such as plane crashes, and
fioods, where horses provide the only practical
transportation; to participate in endeavors to ad—
vertise or further the interests of the picturesquei‘.
Southwest, and to provide a club of social and rec- 7
reational nature for men who like to ride.

The forty members are all prominent men— '
doctors, attorneys, bankers and sportsmen. Each

“I’LL SEE YOU AT ATLANTIC CITY!” 113

   
 

F"; 3‘19"“! it
p. any} ’I G

I
-

safe climbing apparatus . . .

durability and economy.

Send for your copy of this catalog TODAY and see how EVERWEAR can fill your play-

ground needs. There is no charge. Just fill in and mail the coupon below.

1‘

EverWear.

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELD, OHIO

EVERWEAR also manufactures a complete line of
beach and pool equipment. If you wish to have
this catalog, mark coupon.

_-

owns his own horse, saddle, bridle, pistol, rifle,
lariat and a club uniform which is typically west-
ern from boots to hat and badge.

A business meeting is held one night each week,
presided over by the Ranch Boss (President).
Other officers include the Foreman (Vice—Presi—
dent). W'agon Boss (Director), and the Country
Banker (Treasurer). Every Sunday morning the
group meets at an appointed place to ride and
take part in any special activities planned by the
Activities Committee. These may include relay
races, practice roping, target practice, a treasure
hunt, group instruction in the care of horses, a
simulated fugitive hunt, a rabbit chase or a fox
hunt. "

El Paso is ideally located for riding and special
activities such as these listed. A vast sandy prairie
stretches for many miles east of the city, broken
by low foothills and arroyos, dotted over with
greasewood, yucca and sage brush and uninter-
rupted by fences.

"I'll See You at Atlantic City!"
(Continued from page 90)

One city reports “Our whole board is coming”;

Get this Catalog of
Safety Playground Equipment

EVERWEAR complete selection of Playground apparatus offers you
something more than durability and playability. It guarantees
SAFETY in every piece of equipment. '

The 1937 EVERWEAR catalog describes the new safety swings——

ruhher encased—which take the injury element out of swings . . .
and exclusive features on merry-go-rounds, slides and ladders

that make for safety. There is a reason why EVERWEAR playground equipment is found
on finest playgrounds everywhere. It is the equipment you can depend on for safety,

  

 
       
  
 
   
   
   

it includes a really

r— . — — — — — _ _ — — U — — — — _ _ _ _ —_

I EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING COMPANY

l Springfield, Ohio (R)
Please send me the FREE catalog of EVERWEAR

[ playground equipment.

| ) I am also interested in beach and pool

I apparatus.

     
 

----oo..In.-¢.u...c-gnu-Icnun.-.........-"no-Incuccccucucgouo.---n.¢nonnnuui u n a c o I - u 0 u o u I o .-

  
    

another “Five members of our board will be
there.” In recognition of this fine interest a'
special luncheon of these visiting laymen and
women will be arranged with the members of the
loard of the National Recreation Association.

Service Awards

The seasoned and time-honored veterans of the
recreation movement will be presented with suit-
able awards by Dr. ]ohn H. Finley, Acting Vice-
President of the National Recreation Association,
and Editor of the N ew York Times. This is an
event to which many executives will look forward
with great interest and pleasure. Recognition of

,length of service on an occasion such as this is an

honor not to be lightly passed. Awards will be
granted as follows:

30 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

25 years . . . . . . . . .  . . 23

20 years . . .' . . . . . . . . . . 48

I 5 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

10 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
272
Exhibitors

The usual commercial, educational and publish-

114

CHARACTER MAGAZINE

should be in every home, church, school
and public library. Community organiza-

tions, Y.M.C.A.’s, Y.W.C.A.’s, P.T.A.’s, Boy

Scouts, etc., should have a subscription to ‘

this magazine as resource material.

CHARACTER MAGAZINE

is tremendously concerned in deveIOping
character and in real cooperative aline-
Inents between agencies in the community.
Some of the finest minds in the country
are numbered among the editorial group
responsible for this magazine. A glance
through any number will convince you
that you should become a regular reader
of this unique magazine.

Why not take the time to check the offer
below that appeals to you most and mail
to us TODAY with your remittance. If
you will mention these offers to your
friends you will be doing them a real ser-
vice and at the same time help us deveIOp
this magazine.

——1 year (Monthly except July and
August) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1.50
(Add 300 for foreign postage)

-——-——-2 years (20 Big Issues) . . . . . . 2.50

-—-—-1 year CHARACTER MAGAZINE
and copy of UNTYING
APRON STRINGS . . . . . . . .. 2.00

(This is a book on mental hygiene for
parents, teachers and leaders. Young
people will find in it the help they
need in solving their own problems of
personality development.)

-—6 months trial subscription. . . 1.00

-_————-_—_--———__m—.

CHARACTER MAGAZINE
Dept. B
5732 Harper Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Enter my subscription to CHARACTER MAGAZINE
as checked above. Enclosed is remittance.

Name ................................................................................... ..

Position ..............  .............................................................. ..

Address ........................... . .' ................................................. ..

City ............  ....................... .. State .................................... ..

 

THEODORE l/VIRTH

 

I

THEODORE WIRTH

See RECREATION for April, 1937, for a sketch
of Theodore Wirth’s life and his contribution to

the park movement.

ing interests will be well represented at the Con-
gress. Materials from the Federal government
will be on display. These exhibits constitute one
of the most practical features of the Congress—-
where and what to buy in the equipment line:
what to read; What publishers produce recreation
literature—will be readily answered by the dis-

plays and their personal attendants. The follow-
ing firms are represented:

Commercial

Crouse-Hinds Company, Syracuse, N. Y. '1

C. Howard Hunt Pen Company, Camden, N. J.:

The P. Goldsmith Sons, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio

P. F. Frost, New York City

Golf Register Company, Pittsiield, Mass.

Magnus Brush and Craft Materials, \Nakefield,
Mass.

Universal School of Handicrafts, New York
Cit

bletrgpolitan Life Insurance Company, New
York City '-

National Broadcasting Company, New York
City

Publishers

Abingdon Press, New York City F 

A. S. Barnes, New York City

E. _P. Dutton & Company, Inc., New York City

Grosset & Dunlap, New York City

I. B. Lippincott, Philadelphia, Pa.
National Council Y.M.C.A., New York City

lVHY NO T A STAY-A T-HOJ'IE l'ACA TION f 115

   

professional people only.

 

W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, Pa.
Harper Brothers, New York City

\Vomans Press, New York City

Columbia University Press, New York City

National Recreation Association
W. W’. Norton, New York City

Educational

The Forest Service of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture

National Congress P. T. A.

Recreation Division, W. P. A.

Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor

National Park Service

Why Not a Stay-at-Hoine Vacation?
(Continued from page 92)

individual members. Especially the hobbies con-
nected with nature are furthered by the walksiin
woods and by streams. Collections are sure to be
started. The leaves of different trees may attract
the attention of sister; brother is sure to fill his
pockets with rocks .varied in color and interesting
in formation. Ferns, grasses, mosses, shells and
birds’ nests are other collections begun during this
time that will grow as days in the open are re-

Special $1.00 offer
Send only $1.00 for complete material to make up No. 455

u'ood bead bag as illustrated. It opens and closes. with a zipper,

and is beautifully lined inside. This special offer is made to
Ask for Walco Outfit No. 455. ties. ’

Address: PROFESSIONAL pnoJ‘Ecr DEVELOPMENT DIVISION

WALCO BEA!) 1:0.

37 \VEST 37 th STREET

 

  

Read the article in the
April issue of RECREATION
entitled “Bead Craft As a
Playground Activity.” It is
written by Maurine E.
Mader, Playground and

Recreation C OIIlIlli s sion,

Springfield, Ill.

     
 
   
   
 
     
 
 
 
  
  

  

Experilnent with
this fascinating leisure .
time vocation. Try wood ;
head craft yourself. You i
will be amazed at its sim-
plicity—pleased when you I
realize how appropriately
it can he applied to your
recreation project activi-

 
  
 

  
 

      
       
   
    

NEW YORK, N. Y.

(

peated, and arranged and catalogued when winter
days come. .

Another of the hobbies that will be fostered by
lthese nature hikes is the home aquarium. There
are quite a few of native fishes from the ponds
and streams of our northern climate that may be
“found and netted alive for use in the home tank.
'The most effective ones as far as beauty is con-
cerned are the rosy-sided minnows and the red-
ibellied dace. Sun fishes and darters are also active
and pretty and in silvery contrast to the exotic
slgoldfish. The native fish that come from still water
will be hardier than the ones accustomed to the
-.constant movement of streams. Only the small
fivarieties should be brought to the inside tank. If
“the pool is out-of—doors then a greater latitude of
‘!ch0ice is feasible. This is particularly true if there
,is a fountain or a steady intake and outgo of
fwatc—r.

f

The family group that contains a member who
belongs to one of the camps set up this winter by
the Recreation Camping project in New York
City will find they have a mine of information '
within their midst. During the winter at per-

116 A PARADE IS PASSING BY!

 

I am introducing

STORY PARADE

A magazine for boys and girls
from 7 to 12

STORIES
VERSE
MUSIC
PICTURES
PLAYS
REVIEWS

“I have found no material so excellently
adapted to meet the needs of present
day activities in the field of education
and recreation as that found in your

very unique magazine. . . .”

-——MARTHA B. ARCHER,

Pasadena Department of Recreation.

Subscriptions $1.50 in the United States
Canada $1.60; Foreign $1.75

Single copies 15 cents

STORY PARADE

70 Fifth Avenue New York. N. Y.

manent camps set up in settlements and com-
munity houses, the children have been learning
camp and nature craft that this spring they are
putting into operation on camp hikes. They hav'
mastered the craft of fire construction of several
types with an eye to the location, the weather and
the function of the fire. They have learned the
woods best suited and the way to guard against
fire hazards. ,They have found the use of shelters
and how to throw one up for the occasion—storm,
wind or hot sun. They are tasting natural environ—
ment, gaining an understanding of nature as
friend and foe and how to use the terrain they
cross as pioneers did.

The families with even a very young member‘
Who has garnered these lessons of campcraft, will
be able to take and heartily enjoy a stay—at-home-

vacation:

A Parade is Passing By!
(Continued from page 97)

den, with a windmill built in the center. The chil-
dren were dressed in Dutch costumes which had
been made at their playground under the super-
vision of the costume designer. Following the
float was a small Dutch cart pulled by a large dog
and driven by a small girl in Dutch costume.

The highest praise went to the Liberty float,
decorated by a large public service company at its
own expense. This was part of the presentation
of history of our country from the days of the
covered wagon to the present. The other floats
of this exhibit included a reproduction of a
Conestoga covered wagon, pulled by a team of
horses and carrying children dressed as pioneers
and playing banjos and mouth harps, and an:
American Indian float bearing a Wigwam and
children dressed as Indians. Another playground,
in portraying America, chose the one phase of
Radio City, and presented a large float on which
were built “several cardboard buildings and a radio
tower to show Radio City at night.

The two colored playgrounds put on jointly the
history of the Negro race under the title, “From
the Plantation to Harlem.” Their float, showing
a plantation scene, was sponsored by the colored
Elks. Other floats depicted a Japanese garden, a
Spanish fiesta scene, the Land of Fun and Frolic,{.
and Germany and the Olympics.

It required thirty minutes for the procession to
pass, and I 5,000 persons crowded the streets along
the route, to watch the parade.

A PARADE IS PASSING BY! 117

 

  
     

.1. r_
' I . I ' i i - - _ - _ , .
t . f . :. “ _ '
a ‘ " , , '
1 " . 2 " ..
i . t’ . - h. ,—
5 . \ .
‘ ' P *Trade-mark for
" r ‘, r ' key-tension device
m,

Yes—you can actually own a new Royal Port-
able for as little as $1 a week. For Royal alone
gives you Touch Control*, an amazing improve-
ment which adapts the key tension of the
machine to everyone’s finger pressure! And this

is only ONE of Royal’s many unusual features!

Three models—three prices with payments from
75¢ to $1.25 per week. (De Luxe Model illustrated.)

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, inc.

,» 2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

The parade was scarcely over before we were programs were distributed several days before the
deluged with requests from local merchants to revue, and again at the door the night of the per-
sponsor floats in our parade next year. formance in order to advertise further the parade

Following the parade, the group hurried to a and revue.
high school auditorium to prepare for the second Cooperation from the playground workers and
half 0f the Program: the revue, and by curtain the city as a whole alone made possible the success
time that night the house was filled with more of our presentations.
than twelve hundred persons. Each of the nine Fairmont is a hity of 25,000 persons. Its play_

aets Of the revue “[33 greeted b): encore after en‘ ground history is four years old, but in that time
core from an amazmgly responswe audience. The the number of playgrounds has increased from
high Spot of the entertainment was ofTered by the five to fourteen The program extends over

two colored playgrounds with an imitation 0f twelve weeks each summer, with two periods each
Cab Calloway and his band and a plantation num- day of the week except Saturday and Sunday_
bet inelUding SiXt)’ Children Singing Negro Attendance in the 1936 season was 132,106, an
meledies- increase of 34,000 over last year with an average

The countries represented in the float in the annual attendance of 90,000. The playgrounds
parade—~America, Hawaii, Germany, Japan and employ forty-two workers of whom fifteen were
Holland—were represented at the revue with tra— supplied by theIWorks Progress Administration.
lditional songs and dances in costume. The entire Under their direction a well—rounded recreational
program was novel and sufticiently diversified to program is developed. The playgrounds were
appeal to all ages and to give the playground chil- admitted last year to participation in the Com—
dren opportunity to exercise their various talents. munity Chest and given an allotment of $1,600,

In connection with the show we published a but prior to that time the playground director and
program in which we sold space; we received his helpers had'raised money by ball games,

generous cooperation from the merchants. These dances, basketball games, soft ball tournaments

118 MILLIONS OF BOOKS—AND RECREATION

 

Progressive Teacher

“The Magazine with a Vision”

It' Brings You a Veritable Library of
Best Educational Reading from
Experts in the Field of Education

You will receive in the ten issues help on:
School Administration and Supervision
Classroom Methods and Projects
Health, Physical Training and Entertainment
Opening Exercises, religious training
Stories and Songs for the Auditorium Hour
Help on all the common school branches
Articles on music, drawing and art
School decoration
Help on Club programs, Raising Funds
School Libraries and a discussion of new books

$2.00 Per Year of Ten Issues Two Years for $3.50
Three Years for $5.00

Advertising Rates Sent on Request

Make Several Hundred Dollars
During Vacation

We want 2,500 young men and women to sell sub-
scriptions to PROGRESSIVE TEACHER—a school maga-
zine now in its 45th year and national in circula-
tion-mat County Institutes, Teachers’ Meetings,
Summer Schools and Normal Schools throughout
the United States.

This is a fine opportunity to earn several
hundred dollars during your vacation

Write
PROGRESSIVE TEACHER

Circulation Department MORRISTOWN. TENN. '

and playground shows, and the various schools
had contributed. During four years these contri-
butions amounted to $2,000 exclusive of Com-
munity Chest funds.

Millions of Books—And Recreation

( Continued from page 98)

Tom Sawyer
' Treasure Island
Under the Greenwood Tree
The Merchant of Venice
Pére Goriot
The Way of All Flesh
Alice in Wonderland
Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
The Golden Treasury of English Verse

D
t
'0

On May I, 1933 twelve hundred thousand vol
umes of the Jacket Library were placed on sale a
lifteen cents each. A nation-wide publicity program
brought schools, libraries, churches and the pres
into the picture. An Advisory Board was set up

The response was phenomenal. Within thre
months Jacket Library books were bought by th
hundreds of thousands in drug stores and depart
ment stores and on news stands. Churches, hos
pitals and prisons bought them in quantities
Books were sold to school children for ten cents
Thirty-dive hundred were sent to one New Yor
high school in one day. One clothing hrm bough
10,000 copies of Tom Sawyer and gave them awa
as premiums to purchasers of rompers! Fift
thousand found their way into the C.C.C. camps
Fifty thousand more were sent by the Carnegi
Endowment for International Peace to Greece
Bulgaria, Turkey, and Latin American countries

Publishers who had been skeptical of the un
dertaking called it the “craziest organization 'i
the world.” But the work went on. The Foun
dation has now begun to publish original work
by contemporary authors. The new series are i
cloth covers, and sell for 25¢. “Brass Tacks’
by David Cushman Coyle has been reprinted i
many editions and it is estimated that this littl
book has been read by several million peopl
Books by Arthur E. Morgan, President of An
tioch College and now of T.V.A., John W. Stude '
baker, Office of Education, Department of the In
terior, Washington, D. C., Dorothy Canfiel
Fisher, Harold G. Moulton, President of th
Brookings Institution, have been released in edi
tions of one hundred thousand copies.

Thus an idea generated in a college classroo
has grown to tremendous proportions. Hundred
of thousands of good books have gone into com
munities where books could not be bought before
It is significant from a recreational point of view
that most of these are books that people read jus
for the love of reading. The recreative and cultura
values of such reading by people young and 01d ,'

‘many of whom never had owned such books be

fore, are beyond all computation.

The effort of these young people of the Foun
dation, dedicated to the task of promoting th
reading of good books for greater numbers of ou
population at a price within the reach of all, wil
live on in the lives of those whom they serve an 
in the growing enrichment of the cultural life 0 ‘
America. r o

\ .

it

Play Streets and Their Use for

Recreational Programs

| By Edward V. Norton, M.A. A. S. Barnes and Company,
l New York. $1.00.

l HERE HAs NEVER been a compilation available on
ll street play, its origin and historical background, the
l experiments which have been made in a number of cities,
the method of organization, and successful forms of ac-
tivities which may be used. Mr. Norton has performed
this much needed service and he has given us, in addi-
tion, the results of his own experiences in developing
play streets under the sponsorship of the play street pro-
ject of the WPA. Recreation workers will be particu-
larly interested in the discussion of the adaptation of ac-
tivities of various types to street play.

The Abingdon Party Book

By Ethel Owen. The Abingdon Press, New York. $1.00.

HE AUTHOR, well known as a writer of books on social

recreation, has included in this volume three of her
party books—A Book of Original Parties; Parties That
Are Diferent; The Happy Party Book-ntogether with
some new parties. The result is a volume of more than
,‘thirty-live parties all characterized by originality.
Sketches and illustrations throughout the book with eight
color inserts make clear the ideas and suggestions. “The
I parties planned are such that they may 'be given in homes,
lschools, clubs and wherever people gather together for a
'.good time.

lOl Things for Little Folks To Do

By Lillie B. and Arthur C. Horth. J. B. Lippincott Com-
pany, Philadelphia. $2.00.

,To PROVIDE little children with simple occupations suita-
ble for rainy days and holidays is the purpose of this
attractively illustrated book. All the materials suggested
for use in making things are those which as far as pos-
sible are easily obtainable in the. home. Where material
must be bought, the cost is little. The diagrams are self-
explanatory and the accompanying text provides simple
instructions in simple language. '

 

Youth Serves the Community

By Paul R. Hanna. D. Appleton-Century Company, In-
corporated, New York. $2.00.

OUTH SERVES THE COMMUNITY is the introductory
 book to a series sponsored by the Progressive Educa-
i‘ tion Association which is designed “to help teachers and
'| other educational workers to do more thorough and ef-
" fective work in the schools.” This particular volume pre-
I sents the results of a study of what children and youth
have been doing to promote community welfare in this
country and abroad. It describes a great variety of suc-
cessful projects in which children and youth have par-
ticipated and which have had educational value.to the in-
dividual and at the same time have made significant con-
tributions to social betterment. Recreation workers will

4

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

be especially interested in the chapters on “Youth Con-
tributes to Public Safety”; “Youth Contributes to Civic
Beauty”; “Youth Contributes to Civic Arts.”

Ten Good Parties

Compiled. by Miriam J. Williams. The Farmer’s Wife'
Magazme. St. Paul, Minnesota. $.10.

EN coon PARTIES “that are fun”——parties ranging from

a New Year’s party to a gypsy picnic—make up this
attractive booklet. Another pamphlet on parties emanat-
ing from the same source is Children’s Parties, by Myrtle
J. Trachsel (10 cents) in which suggestions are offered
for party plans, decorations, games and activities, and re-
freshments. In addition to these helpful booklets, The
Farmer’s Wife Magazine has issued a number of bul-
letins of interest to recreation workers. These include
Books for Boys and Girls, with descriptive matter (five
cents) ; Books Worth Reading (hve cents) ; M oney-
Making Plans for Women’s Organizations (five cents);
How to Organize and Carry on a Club (10 cents) ; The
Puppet Theater (10 cents), and Good Home Talent
Plays compiled by Edna L. Waldo (live cents).

"Handy ||"--Kit Q

Big Times in Small Spaces. Edited by Lynn Rohrbough.
Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.
RECREATION LEADERS will welcome this revised material
on Games and Stunts for Crowded Places, which of-
fers a number of suggestions for the leader who is faced
with the necessity of providing activities for an audience
which has attended another session and which has been
seated for an hour or more. Mr. Rohrbough offers game
material and stunts for which some advance preparation

may be made and other material which may be planned
for at a moment’s notice.

The Coaching of Soccer

By Hubert E. Coyer. W. 'B. Saunders Company, Phila-
delphia. $2.00.

MR. COYER offers many tested suggestions in his book

which will prove especially helpful in teaching the
fundamentals of soccer, developing team play and sound
judgment, and in utilizing playing material to the best
advantage. The technique of each skill required is dis-
cussed, together with its uses, advantages and disad-

' vantages. A particularly helpful feature of the book is its

illustrations. Each technique for playing the ball or the
Opponent, and each defensive and offensive team forma-
tion is clearly pictured.

Social Treatment in Probation

and Delinquency

Pauline V. Young, Ph.D. McGraw-Hill Book Company,
Inc., New York. $4.00.

' THIS IS A BOOK 0N METHOD—-a most thorough and com-

prehensive study of the factors involved in any case
of delinquency. 'The author citis a .few typical cases of

119

‘

120 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

delinquent youth and around them arrays the forces that
cause a delinquency and the social and legal agencies that
deal with the cases. Community disorganization and
rapid social change—the broken family, sordid poverty

and lack of community responsibility—pour a continuous
stream of helpless children into the hands of the soc1al

agencies, police, the courts, probation officers, and penal
institutions.

What agencies should deal with these cases? How
should such cases be studied scientifically? What part do
the police, the courts and probation ofiicers play? How
should parental education be carried on? What are the
qualifications of the worker with delinquent youth? These
and many other questions are answered on the baSIS of

very careful research findings.

The final section of the volume deals with the utiliza-'.

tion of community resources in the work of unadjusted
youth and parents—among them the church, the school,
community recreation agencies, coordinating counCils and
the juvenile court clinic. These are described and ap-
praised. An ideal is set up for recreation and recreation

workers as the author quotes from the White House Con- .

ference on Child Health and Protection. . . . “The play-_
ground ofiicial of the future will be rather a community
agent than a playground director. The background of
child life must be known as it is seen, not only on the
playground but on the streets and in the alleys.”

This book is indeed a, “Treatise and. Casebook for
Court \Vorkers, Probation Officers and Other Child Wel-

fare Workers.’ ’

The Romance Map of Maine.

Compiled by Alice E. Fowler and Grace F. Dodge.
Artist, Mildred C. Green. Secure from Mrs. Grace

F. Dodge, Boothbay, Maine. $.50.

The latest in the attractive series of Romance Maps,
the map of Maine, is made up of cleverly arranged
sketches of historical events, famous people, interesting
legends, and animals of Maine. If you are interested .111
historical events or if Maine happens to be your favorite
vacation haunt, as it is with so many people, you Will not

want to miss this publication.

This New America.

By Alfred C. Oliver, Jr. and Harold M. Dudley.
Longmans, Green and Company, New .York. $1.50.

Here is the story of the CCC since the inauguration of
which almost 2,000,000 young men have enrolled in camps.
The book gives statistical information regarding the work
done in the conservation of our national resources, but
what is more important, it testifies to the work which is
being done in the conservation of our national youth.
The editors of this book had access to government.fi_les
containing thousands of letters by enrollees describing
life in the camps. Many of these human documents are

published in This N ew America.

The Junior Natural History.

The American Museum of Natural History, 77th
Street and Central Park West, New York. $1.00 a

year; 10 cents a c0py.
A monthly magazine containing information on birds,

animals, flowers and natural phenomena, presented in.a
way to appeal to children. The magazine 15 profusely il-

lustrated with beautiful pictures.

Mental Games.

The Walther League, 6438 Eggleston Avenue, Chi-
cago, Illinois. $.10.

Here are nine mimeographed pages of interesting brain
puzzlers gathered from various sources.

Improved Personnel in Government Service.

Published in The Annals of the American Academy
of Political and Social Science, January 1937. Ameri—
can Academy' of Political and Social Science, 3457

\Valnut Street, Philadelphia. $2.00.

This issue of the Annals has been devoted to the sub-
ject of personnel in government service, and a number Of
outstanding leaders have contributed articles on the fol-
lowing subjects: Spoils and Democracy; the Develop-
ment of a Professional Public Service; New Techniques
of Public Personnel Administration; the Reform Move-
ment: Old and New; Improved Personnel in Govern-
ment Service. Among the contributors are C. A. Dykstra,
City Manager of Cincinnati; Ordway Tead, lecturer and
writer; Lewis Meriam of the Brookings Institution;
Harold W..Dodds, president of Princeton University, and

others.

Happy Nature Adventures.

By Mary C. Butler. Dorrance and Company, Phila-
delphia. $1.50.

A nature lover whose own life has been enriched by
contact with nature tells delightfully of her ramblings.
It is interesting to note that no observation recorded
was made more than eight miles from the spot where the
writer lives.

Twig Key to Some Common Northeastern Trees.

By William _M. Harlow. New York State College
of Forestry, Syracuse, New York. Single copies,
$.25; 100 or more, $.15.

Dr Harlow has presented a simple key to thirty-eight
common trees. Each twig has been photographed.
“ngs are not Just so many sticks terminating the'
branches, but possess individuality of form, color, size
and_often taste.” Many leaders will be glad to become
familiar with their neighborhood trees or to make a tree

map of their playgrounds by this means—Rev' wed b
William G. Vina]. 16 y

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice'PreSident
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWOR‘I‘H, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
REDERICK M. WARDURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

 

