"A Mighty Volume of Hope"

“The New Deal was a magnificent promise, and it evoked a mighty volume of hope. Mass
hope is the most wonder-working gift that can come into the hands of a popular leader. The
mass hope of world peace at the end of the Great War, the mass hope of the Russian Revolu-
-tion and the mass hope of the New Deal were great winds of opportunity. But these great

winds of opportunity do not wait for ships to be built or seamen to learn navigation. They
pass: they are not to be recalled.”—H. G. Wells—Collier’s for February 5, 1938.

HE RECREATION MOVEMENTmthe playground movement—the abundant living movement
T too has been “a magnificent promise, has evoked a mighty volume of hope.” This promise,

this hope could be fulfilled. The difficulty is in any large areas to find the adequate tax
support to provide the leadership needed for a long time demonstration, to help citizens to
form the habits of vital, victorious living. Gracious, vital, satisfactory living is much less de-
pendent on money, might, position, power than is commonly supposed. If we really care to
live—we can pretty well do so. It is a question of “the gods we worship.” We have worshipped
the possession of money, of power, of position, and living has most of the time been regarded
as of little importancemuntil the time for death came and men realized that ever and always
living had been postponed until a later time until now it was too late. Whole generations
have come and gone pretty much without having lived.

A few spirits, sometimes kings, sometimes peasants; sometimes rich, sometimes poor;
sometimes presidents, sometimes fishermen have always and ever lived, have ever possessed
the inner resources for living.

Neither Stalins nor Hitlers nor Mussolinis can give such inner resources for living. No
amount of external music, drama, nature, building, creating will produce of itself music and
harmony and unity and life within.

The art of living is a much greater art than the art' of making money, of gaining posi-
tion or power.

If we all care enough for the art of living, if we care a fractional part as much for
living as we have cared for making money, our part of the world could soon be made over
-—“a magnificent promise, a mighty volume of hope could be fulfilled.”

It is a question of “the gods we worship.”
Such living is not flying nowhere fast, galloping off in all directions at once.

Music, beauty, adventure, unity—each of these has always been in the world, proba-
bly always will be——but it is there only for those who have been helped to see it, to feel it,
to live it. '

And all this depends on whether we as men, as taxpayers, care-—care enough to pro.-
vide leadership for living as we provide leadership for war.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

MAY, I938

 

1'
Con’res
Club
Camera

N. J..

' Coun’ry.

‘ he Union

ble men’rion m ’r

honora

hich won

’r w

0. Bogar

h by L.

p

Pho’rogra

58

 

A Playground Goes to the Children

Pets and flowers; libraries that
are different; colorful paintings -
on unsightly walls—you will find
all these and more in the story of

Philadelphia’s Tot Lot Playground

By C. H. ENGLISH

Executive Secretary
Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphia. Pa.

HILDREN living in blighted, congested
C slum neighborhoods are usually
forced to use dangerous streets as
their playground. Home play is impos-
sible through lack of space, and back
yards are small or absent altogether. ,
There are never enough playgrounds in such dis-
tricts, especially for little folks. Fortunate are the
youngsters if there is a cleared, vacant lot in their
block. To have a vacant lot supervised and equip-
ped as a small playground comes pretty close to
being their idea of a perfect set-up.

In Philadelphia we call these operations “tot
lot playgrounds.” A tot lot is primarily for little
tots and for children ‘under twelve years of age.
Developed within the block, sometimes in the very
center, it has an intimate relationship with whole
families not usually possible on a standard play-
ground. In practice, these tot lots are really family
play centers shared at times with such activities
as the drying of clothes on wash day. While the
program is designed for small children, the fami-
lies soon take it for granted that they are to par-
ticipate in all the plans and activities. And why
shouldn’t they when all that the nearest neighbors
have to do is to step out of their back doors and
be in the playground? Only a few. older brothers
and sisters are permitted to participate in the pro-
gram, and then strictly as junior leaders.

 

Can you walk through this hole without
stooping? If you can. it's your ticket
of admission to the Tot Lot Playground!

At all times a group of neighbors are present
and having as good a time as the children. How
often have we heard leaders of standard recrea-
tion centers express the wish that they could se-
cure active participation and cooperation of par-
ents in their playground program? In a tot lot
situation parents do not have to travel to a play
center; they are already there. The leaders do not
have to call stated meetings for parents. Rather,
there is a daily, friendly, neighborly chat going on
even while directing the program. Indeed. this
leader and family relationship is both the greatest
challenge and the most severe test of that leader-
ship. All the family feuds, unhappy situations,
sickness, economic distress, as well as inter-family
social and racial antagonisms, become a part of
the supervisor’s problem load. We attempt to serve
the whole family in their problems and needed ad-
justments..

59

60 A PLAYGROUND GOES TO THE CHILDREN

\Vhy assume this additional and difficult bur-
den? Just how effective would our work with
disprivileged children be, no matter how excellent
the program, if our influence did not reach the
whole family? If the child’s family does not have
a change of attitude, then our efforts are seriously
handicapped. \Ve cannot expect the child to be
the only influence at work in family rehabilitation.

' Is it possible to effect changes in a slum neigh-
borhood by working with children on this type of
playground? It is being done at our tot lots.

A Typical District

To understand how this is being accomplished
it is necessary to describe a typical slum district in
which one of our tot lots is located. Housing is
appalling. The type of house is what is known as a
“bandbox” house. This is a three story dwelling
of one room per story, 12x14 feet. Often three
families are forced to exist in these “homes,” each
having a room, but constantly disturbed because
the second and third floors are reached by an in-
side circular stairway through these rooms. There
is no privacy except on the third floor. There are
no sewers, only surface drainage. Some homes

are without heating facilities and most of them '

are without electric lights. Streets are narrow,
many only ten feet wide. Courts, often not over
four feet wide, are the only passageway to dark,
unsanitary interior homes. Generally there are
only outdoor toilets. One court ,hydrant may
serve as many as sixteen families. If there are
backyards they are so small they can only be used
for storage. Can you imagine play space for chil-
dren in such homes? Court and
street play is their only choice.
In such districts there
exists a number of ra-
cial groups. Fierce an-
tagonisms develop be-
tween adults which are
carried on by the young-
sters. Social life is very
active, since household
duties are practically nil
and unemployment
causes an abundance of
leisure. Gossip and
fights are the chief
forms of recrea-
tion. Naturally the so-
cial unit among youth,
and even children, is

 

It's better. and more economical.
to lmild boys than to repair men

Courtesy of Evening Public Ledger

the street or court gang. These gangs are the life
of the district. If you were forced to live there
you would join one, too. It would be the natural
expression of revolt against the dreary, sordid
environment, and an effort to compensate for its
deficiencies.

Recent years of economic distress have caused
tragic situations in these neighborhoods. Actual
want, increased sickness, drunkenness and exces-
sive idleness are factors that have caused broken
homes, raised the birth rate and in general thrown
the family into a state of despair and disorgani-
zation. What has happened to the children who
survive? Could it be otherwise than that they are
touchy, irresponsible, delinquent, undernourished,
and thereby subject to may physical disorders?‘
Such conditions exist in slum districts in any
large city, especially the old ones, and are not.
typical of Philadelphia alone.

“Page” the Ideal Tot Lot Leader!

Would the training we require of a standard
playground worker be sufficient for leadership on
a tot lot in such neighborhoods? Experience in-
dicates much more is required. Workers must
possess a “missionary spirit” even to have the de-
sire to work in such an environment. They must
have had some actual experience with situations
involving racial difficulties, poverty and social
problems in family life. They must have acquired
a knowledge of elemental social case work. They
must know the community resources available in
matters of health, social and Government services
and how to utilize them. They must be resource-
ful 'in order to overcome the
handicaps of space, equipment

and the continuous ad—

justments among chil-
dren and parents. All
this is necessary, in ad-
dition to play skills.
Since the percentage of.
subnormal children is
high in such districts,
the need to catalogue
or classify children
seems to be imperative.
This really calls for
psychometric methods.
Therefore, a knowledge
of the Montessori, or
similar methods, for lit-

A PLAYGROUND GOES TO THE CH]I..DRE.\' o1

 

The children helped in painting the pictures
which have transformed a number of old walls

tle folks would be desir-
able.

VVill someone “page” the country for such a
leader who has all this experience and who is will-
ing to accept an ordinary salary for such pioneer
service? \Ve have no one on our staff who pos-
sesses all these ideal qualifications. But through
“in—service training," and with the aid of a vol-
unteer doctor of psychology, we are making con—
siderable headway in acquiring additional tech-
niques. And we may state that we do not expect
to get many tangible results short of five years of
experimentation. The program involved in clas—
sification is too new even to attempt a report at
this time. During a period of two years some in-
teresting experiments have been tried which lends
encouragement to our efforts. Among these experi-
ments we submit the following which are unique:

Some Successful Experiments
A Pet Library. On one of our tot lot playgrounds

we developed a “pet libr-
ary.” A collection of ani-
mals and birds was made, sixteen varieties in all,
and properly housed in a corner of the' lot. These
included guinea pigs. pigeons, chickens, turtles,
gold fish and ducks. The children, many of whom
had never seen some of the animals, were tre-
mendously interested in our 200. They were eager
to learn about the care and feeding of them and
each day different youngsters were granted this
privilege. Then at the end of the playground day
a selected gfoup was permitted to take the pets
home to be returned the following day. \Ve did
not lose a single pet. In fact, before the end of
summer there were many increases among certain
of the breeds. Objective lessons continuously
learned through handling these pets account for a
good deal of the consideration the children de—
veloped for one another.

Largest Painting. The summer theme for story-
telling, dramatics and handcraft was American

62 A PLAYGROUND GOES TO THE CHILDREN

Indian Lore. With the aid of a WPA artist a
scene of an Indian encampment was painted on
one of the three brick walls surrounding the play-
ground. This scene was eight feet high and fifty
feet long. The artist designed, outlined and di-

rected the older children in completing the picture.-

An' interesting feature developed in this proj-
ect. It was found that ordinary paint was ab—
sorbed by the weather-beaten brick. A local paint
concern became so interested in the problem that
they gave their research department the task of
developing a formula to overcome the difficulty.
This was so successful that the painting has with—
stood months of changing weather. So delighted
were the children with their largest painting in
the city that they requested others. They were
given a choice of subjects and these were decided
by vote. In due time, Little Boy Blue, Cinderella
with her gorgeous pumpkin‘ coach, Three Brown
Bears and, of course, Mickey Mouse and Com-
pany were added to the “gallery.” '

It is difficult to measure results that spring
from appreciation of beauty. You can well im—
agine the effect these paintings had upon the chil—
dren who had a share in their creation. Recall
their environment and then realize that this play
center_was the only lovely spot in the neighbor-
hood. These decorated walls had a hoped-for ef-
fect on the behavior of the adults as well as the
children. Although anyone can gain entrance to
the playground when it is officially closed, not one
of the scenes has been defaced. This is a remark-
able record for the district and entirely unex-
pected. Such treatment of walls is now part of
our program in all playgrounds as we have dis-
covered that talented artists, after seeing that it is
possible to work on such a difficult medium, are
ready to volunteer their services.

Flowers for the Flowerless. Flowers mean so -

much to slum children that each year a courageous
attempt is made to raise them, even though all
the space on the tot lot could be used for activi-
ties. Border gardens and climbing varieties are
planted next to walls and fences, but atmospheric
conditions, the short season and non-fertile soil
make productivity rather un-
successful. This year we have
the promise of plants in tubs
and pots. Last summer an ap-
peal was made to the garden
clubs to supply us with' cut flow-

An exceedingly interesting experi-
ment which is being carried on at
Kensington Playhouse is a training

class in home play for older boys

and girls. This will be described
ers. When the first load arrived in a later issue of Recreation.

the youngsters discovered that they had no vases.
Thereupon a craft project was developed to cre~
ate containers for their weekly supply of beauti—
ful bouquets. Bottles were decorated. Some bot-
tles, a variety that has been “bonded,” are really
most artistic and were easily found in the neigh-
borhood. When the volunteers arrived each week
with a carful of fresh iiowers for distribution to
the children, expressions of joy and cessation
from all their other activities gave convincing tes—
timony that flowers play an important part in
satisfying a child’s hunger for beauty.

"One Good Turn Deserves Another." One proj-
ect was developed with the idea that the children
who were benefited by the tot lot playground
should express their appreciation to the friends
who contributed toward its maintenance. It was
not practical to do this personally, as many con-
tributors were on vacation. It was decided that

. each child would make a tooled leather book mark

(a paper book mark would do as well) and send
it through the mails with a letter of appreciation.
In the beginning suggested designs for the book
marks were given to the youngsters but they soon
created their own. Soon after mailing, and
throughout the summer, replies to their letters
were received. These letters were most interest-
ing and understanding. They established a sincere
“kinship,” many offering helpful advice, and all
were encouraging and written on a child’s ,level.
To be recognized in this manner by prominent
men and women of the city, and to receive letters
posted from Canada to California, was an event
so important that the children literally wore them
out showing them to everyone in the neighborhood
and to those who came to visit the playground.
Were they proud? In the fall a number of con—
tributors called at the homes of their correspond-
ents and established personal relationships. Most
of the children were remembered at Christmas.
We cannot be sure whether the children or the
citizens received the greatest benefit, from this
project. We do know that our “tot loters” took a
greater pride in their play center and a greater
interest in the program.

An Unexpected Climax
A typical summer program
provides for a climax as a clos—
ing event. Our final event was a
joyous one, but the real climax

(Continued on page 109)

Arts and Crafts for Playgrounds

HAT TO D0 in arts and
W crafts for the playground

will be a problem of ma-
jor concern with many recrea-
tion leaders this summer. How,
with limited funds and supplies,
an arts and crafts program may
be developed to fill a gap in an
otherwise rounded program, or
how to take a handcraft program out of the “busy
work” class are some of the none—too-easy prob-
lems which many workers will be called on to

solve.

Equipment

There are certain minimum requirements for
equipment for a playground craft program if it is
to be of any real value.

Storage Box. Each playground should have a
box in which to keep all tools and supplies, a box
used for this purpose alone and one which has
shelves fitted into it. A piano box with hinged top
and front will do admirably.

Craft Shelter. Craft shelters on all playgrounds
are recommended as soon as money is available
with which to build them. The type of shelter
suggested can be used for other activities as well
as for the craft work. It is also more economical
than a series of
temporary shelters
that have to be re-
placed each year.
It is more practi-
cal than a com-
pletely open-sided
structure, which

DESIGNED BY

The craft shelter
suggested here.
which may also be
used for reading
and games. may be
any size desired.

A shelter 25 feet

by l2 feet will
comfortably seat

from thirty-five to
fifty people.

Here are some suggestions which
we hope will help you in your sum-
mer arts and crafts program. They
are taken from a report made by
Frank A. StaplesI Specialist in Arts
and Crafts for the National Recre-
ation Association. to the Recrea-
tion Commission of Bloomfield.
New Jersey' after a brief study.

SUMMER PLAYGROUND
ARTS AND CRAFTS SHOP

FRANK ALSTON STAPLES
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSN. N.Y.C.

r—e‘——>r

J Movable Table
“7 (Accommodate 3
i 10 IO Persona)

FLOOR ELA‘N
Scale 33 32‘

 

gives no protection against wind
and only a minimum protection
against the glaring sun rays. It
should be high enough to give.
the proper air circulation, and
wide and long enough to give
sufficient floor space. It can
have either a cement, wooden or
dirt floor. The shelter should
be enclosed on three sides, leaving one long side
open. This open side should face the north. This
will insure against strong sunlight, which is harm-
ful to the eyes when working on many materials,
especially shiny material such as paper and metals.
I t will also be cooler, and thereby augment work—
ing conditions. Moreover it will protect the
worker against wind, which is sometimes a great
handicap and a source of irritation, as most of
the prevailing winds come from the west. One or
more windows, high on the walls, will insure ad-
ditional light and air if needed. The interior walls
may be finished or unfinished. Built-in parts con-
sist of two closets and one work bench. Two, or
possibly four, movable tables should be provided.
The shelter can most economically be built of
wood.

Tables. Each playground needs at least one
sturdy table. A table 3’x6’ is adequate, or its

 

WORK BENCH
(Accommodate a+o|o Persons) “‘

WJW/AZW/x.
BQCK View

63

()4 . ARTS AND CRAFTS FOR PLAYGROUNDS

equivalent in folding tables that can be put in the

craft box.
Tools and Supplies. The following equipment is

essential, and the articles are listed in the order of
their importance. It is more important to spend
the funds available for this equipment than for
other craft» supplies, for the latter may often be
“salvaged” at little or no cost.

1 pint shellac

1 shellac brush

1 can of glue

1 jar of paste

1 dozen sheets of sandpaper
(0, 00 and coarse)

2 files (medium and coarse)

1 large pan

6 coping saws and 24 blades

3 hammers

1 cross—cut saw

1 portable vise

6 pair of scissors

6 rulers I

6 jackknives

3 pints of show card colors
(red, yellow, blue and
black, white and orange
if possible)

The Program

An integrated and creative program of arts and
crafts should be encouraged. The integrated pro-
gram will increase enthusiasm and add to the
practical value of the program. The creative pro—
gram will do this, and will also help fill a needed
portion of an individual’s life. In this mechanical
age, and more so in coming generations, if trends
are being interpreted correctly, there will be a
great human desire for the opportunity to ex-
press oneself in some creative manner during lei—
sure hours. This developing human tendency has
been brought about by the introduction of more
and more mechanical devices which deprive the
human being of creative expression during work-
ing hours. It is estimated that at the present time
80 per cent of those engaged in industrial work
are unskilled Operators—only 20 per cent are
needed as skilled hand workers. This condition
bids fair to increase rather than to diminish as
time goes on. Incidentally, a program based on
creative and original work is more stimulating,
more interesting and therefore more desired by
the participant.

The planning of the summer program and the
preparing of the required bulletin material should
'be done before the season starts. The outline of
activities should be planned so that it would take
three or four years to cover all the possible crafts.
Activities in three or four crafts are more desir-
able than a smattering of many crafts. In work—
ing out the program it is well to keep in mind the
gradual development of the child in skills, tech-
niques, interests, appreciations and creative pow-
ers. So—called “busy work” has nothing of real
value to offer the child. The emphasis, then.

should'not be on the collecting of articles to make,
but the arranging of a series of problems that will
develop the child’s appreciation, skills, creative
powers and interestsmthus bringing fun .and
freedom into the activity.

The program should be mimeographed and
given to each instructor before the summer ses-
sion starts. This will enable him to plan his work
so that a given amount of craft work can be ac-
complished each week. Needed materials can be
found in advance, and necessary time can be plan—
ned for. He will also realize that there is a defi-
nite craft program, and that he is expected to
complete a certain amount of' craft work. The
program should have flexibility, and not be plan—
ned so that the craft work is turned out uniformly
throughout the city when a slight change would
fit certain situations much more satisfactorily. A
plan is necessary so that the leader will know
which way he is headed. But if some more at-
tractive path opens up before him, he should not
be so tied down by system that he cannot change
his course for more attractive adventures. If ad-
venture and fun are taken out of craft work, its
greatest value is destroyed.

The program should be so planned that it sug-
gests craft activities for four different groups:
the young boy, the young girl, the older boy and
the older girl.

Each craft activity should be supplemented by
the necessary bulletin material. These bulletins
should contain a list of materials needed (supplies
to 'be furnished by the department should be des-
ignated, as well as those that the children will be
expected to secure) ; technical information needed
in teaching the craft, and practical uses. \Vhen
possible include a short paragraph showing the
correlation with the other playground activities,
or home and social life. If possible all bulletins
should be given out at the beginning of the sea—
son. The instructor can examine the material
therein, and be prepared for the coming craft
activities. '

A meeting attended by all the playground in-
structors prior to the opening of the playgrounds,
when work for the season is outlined, discussed
and worked out by each instructor, would be
beneficial. At this meeting each instructor. should
work out a different problem so that all the arti-
cles to be made during the summer would be con-
structed. Articles that were not finished at this
time could be completed at home within a few
days. If all instructors select a different craft,

ARTS AND CRAFTS FOR PLAYGROUNDS 65

the work of the entire summer can be realized,
and each will thereby benefit by the work of the
others. Such a meeting will also interest the staff
in the craft work, as they will gain knowledge and
develop enthusiasm. It will impress upon the in-
structors the importance of the craft program, for

This meeting should be carefully planned by
the arts and crafts supervisor. All materials
needed for the work should be on hand and bul- .
letins, techniques and methods of presenting work
to the children on the playground should be
explained.

A list of arts and crafts activities for the play—
ground follows:

so much time would not be given to the subject if
it were not worth while.

List of Arts and Crafts Activities for the Playground

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

BOYS GIRLS
AGE CRAFT MEDIUM SUBJECT CRAFT I MEDIUM I SUBJECT
Drawing Charcoal Creative Pictures
6-8 years Crayon Animals, Flowers
Pencil Birds Same as for Boys
t. ‘ _ .
creadne Painting Water Color Same as above
an ' Oil Finger Painting Same as for Boys
Symbolic —-—-———-—-—- Cl C _ P1
- ay reative aques
Permd Modeling Sand Figures, etc. Same as for BOys
Clay Objects, Animals,
Pottery Papier—M-aché etc.
Sawdust Same as for Boys
Spatter, etc. Water Colo Leaves, Flowers _
Printing Ink ' Cut Silhouettes, etc. Same as for BOYS
Pine or other ' Puzzles
VVOOdWOl'k Soft Wood Tricks ~
Simple Objects Same as for Boys
Block Water Color Potato and
Printing Ink ' Stick Printing Same as for BOYS
String Yarns ‘Belts, Small Mats,
weaving etc, ' Same as for Boys
Kite Wood and Simple Kites
Paper - Same as for Boys

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dyeing Native Simple Dip and Tie
Vegetable Dyeing of Handker—
Dyes chief, Scarf, etc. ' Same as for Boys
9 12 , grawjng Same as for 6—8 years, with more advanced work and with more. realistic
_ wars Maggi-1g representation desired by the child. During this tranSitional period from
Creative isolitgryg symbolic to realistic-the creative emphasis should dominate.
s mbolic '
yand r Spatter, etc. Water Color Leaves
. , Printing Ink Flowers Same as for Boys
Realistic Objects, em
P ' . a
erlOd \Voodwork Soft and Airplanes, Toys ‘ Soft Toys, Dolls
Hard Woods Birdhouses, Games Needlework Cloth Simple Cloth
Furniture, Boats and Knitting Yarn Articles
' Camp Articles, Huts Scarfs, Mittens,
Sweaters, etc.
Block Linoleum Table_Pieces .
Printing Ink Curtains, Hangings,
Water Color etc. Same as for Boys
Oil Paint Christmas Cards, etc.
Handkerchiefs
VVeaVing Cord Belts, etc. Weaving Yarns, etc. Runners, Mats,
Scarf 3, etc.
Kite Wood and Original, Decorated Soft Toys Cloth Dolls, Marion—
Paper Shapes - ettes, Animal

Toys, etc.

66

 

 

 

 

BOYS GIRLS
AGE CRAFT MEDIUM SUBJECT CRAFT MEDIUM SUBJECT
. Carving Plaster of Plaques, Ornaments,
(co’ltmued) Paris, Wood Figures, Paper
and Bone Knives, Button Same as for Boys
9-12 years Buckles, etc.
Creative Pewter Low Bowls, Flat
Symbolic Metal Copper I Wear of Simple Same as for Boys
and Brass, Tin Construction
Realistic Pocketbooks, Book
Leather Leather Marks, Key tainers Same as for Boys
Book Covers, etc. ’
Sawdust, Finger Puppets, / -
Puppetry Wood and I Marionettes for Same as for Boys
Papier—Mache Original Plays
Split Ash, Simple Baskets,
Basketry Willow or Coasters, Jelly Same as for Boys
Hickory Containers
. Newspaper Bowls, Plates, etc.
Papier-Maché Paper Masks Same as for Boys
Toweling Lanterns
Hooked Burlap, Mats, Rugs
Rug Cotton and Table Mats, Same as for Boys
Wool Coasters, etc.
Wood, Glass Belts, Pocket
Beadwork Metal, Cloth, Books, Table Same as for Boys
Nuts, Leather Mats, etc.
Pewter Pins, Buckles,
Jewelry Copper Bracelets, Same as {01‘ BOYS
Silver etc.
Bookbinding Cardboard Folders, I
Cloth Small Booklets, etc. Same as {01' BOYS
Batik Cloth Simple Designs
Native Dyes on Handkerchiefs,
Scarfs, Curtains, Same 35 for BOYS
Hangings, etc.
Poster Poster Paint Relatedto Activities Same as for BOYS
Candle— Bayberry Candles
dipping Tallow Same as for Boys
I Screen Water Color Posters
painting Ink Illustrations, etc. Same as for Boys
1 Household Articles
3 years up Iron Iron such as Lamps,
Work Magazine Racks, See Below
Flower Brackets, etc.
Creative .
and This age group will be interested in all the crafts listed for the other two age levels. The

Realistic only difference will be in the character of the work, the older groups being interested in more
practical articles. The skill of the beginner in this age group will not be very different from

Period

the preceding age level. They will, however, progress faster and arrive at more difEcult tech-

ARTS AND CRAFTS FOR PLAYGROUNDS

\

niques sooner.

List of Arts and Crafts Activities for the Playground

 

 

 

Except for needlework, knitting and iron work there is no division of crafts for men or
women; and possibly woodwork should [be added to this list. Even in these crafts there is no
sharp division, as some men have been known to be interested in needlework and knitting. It
should be kept in mind, however, that although both sexes may be interested in the same crafts

that there are differences in the type of article thev will want to make.

ARTS AND CRAFTS FOR PLAYGROUNDS 67

The application of a program of this type to a
specilic situation is indicated in the following pro-
gram, outlined for Bloomfield. (Since the sum-

mer was half gone when the outline was made,
only plans for the last half of the summer were
drawn up.)

Arts and Crafts Summer Playground Program—1937

\VEEK YOUNGER BOYS YOUN GER GIRLS OLDER BOYS . OLDER GIRLS

Puzzles and Tricks
Dolls

Puzzles and Tricks Puzzles and Tricks Puzzles and Tricks.

Dolls
Finger Puppets

Spatter and Ozalid

Bone Carving
Mexican Shoes

Plaster of Paris
Carving, Doll Furniture
Puppet Stage

Plaster of Paris
Carving, Figure
Carving (wood)

Plaster of Paris
Carving, Clothespin
Furniture

Sewn Folder for
Spatter Work

Block Toys
Tin Tom-Tom Drums

Burlap Pillow
Spatter Printing

Burlap Needlework

Wood Carving Block Printing

Papier-Maché Bowl Papier-Maché Bowl Marionettes Simple Weaving

 

Responsibilities of Craft Leaders

Supervisor of Arts and Crafts: The arts and
crafts supervisor should be responsible for:

I.

2-

C3.)

The planning of the program outline

The ordering, storing and distributing of all
the supplies that are to be furnished by the

department

The writing of bulletins that. supplement the

program outline

The supervising and instructing of all play—
ground instructors in their arts and crafts

activities

The teaching of crafts on those playgrounds

that need this service

The planning and arranging of all arts and
crafts exhibitions and special feature events

The arranging of a time schedule with each

playground

The writing of weekly reports—summariz-
ing activities and problems, and making rec—
ommendations. This report as well as all
programs, bulletins, time schedules, craft
supply orders, plans for special feature
events and all other matters should be sub-
mitted to the Director for approval.

Playground Instructor: The playground in—

structor should be responsible for:

I. The carrying out of the program planned by
the arts and crafts supervisor

2. The securing of the supplies that are not
listed as coming from the department; the
storing of these supplies, and those delivered
by the department

3. The taking of an inventory, at stated times,
and delivering this report to the craft
supervisor

,4. The studying of each bulletin so as to be
thoroughly familiar with its contents

5. The teaching of the crafts, unless arrange—
ments have been made for the supervisor to
do this work

6. The securing of information and instruction
from the crafts supervisor, when not
thoroughly familiar with, and able to teach,
the project planned

7. The planning, with the crafts supervisor, for
a deiinite number of hours of craft work
each week.

The playground instructor should feel free to

suggest any changes that would be better adapted
to his program.

A Nature Program on a Playground

NDER THE direction of a
U special supervisor, in

nature lore, the nature.
program of the‘Oakland Rec-
reation Department came into
its own this last summer. Na-
ture clubs were formed, play-
ground museums 'sprang up, nature and hand-
craft were combined and there were more hikes
than ever before.

The statistics show some very interesting facts
regarding the popularity of the activity in the first
summer of highly organized supervision. The su-
pervisor made 195 visits to playgrounds, 67 of
which were for presenting introductory programs.
These introductory programs were attended by
2148 children and I46 adults. There were 138
hikes under the guidance of the various play-
ground directors who followed the suggestions of
the nature supervisors. The supervisor conducted
27 hikes himself.

Leadership

The supervisor, Robert Taylor, was well—fitted
for his task of promoting nature on the play—
ground, for not only had he been a playground
director for two years but: he had long been an
enthusiastic amateur naturalist, had been a Boy
Scout nature expert for three years under one of
the Pacific Coast’s foremost naturalists and is en—
rolled in the School of Forestry at the University
of California.

The duties of the supervisor included visiting
playgrounds, suggesting or directing activities for
the director, and leading or accompanying hikes.
His typical weekly program consisted of leading
two or three all-day hikes and collecting trips and
reaching five or six other playgrounds each day
for the remainder of the
week to conduct programs.
In this way he covered about
twenty playgrounds a week
and in addition spent time on
still other grounds preparing
labels or assisting the play-
ground director in planning
a program. On the regular
visits, the supervisor gave
lectures, taught crafts, played

68

The story of the methods one
recreation department used
in organizing and vitalizing its
program of nature activities
for playground children

Interest in nature activities as a part of
the playground program is growing . _ .
rapidly. but this phase of the program is Wlth 11Ve snakES, llzardsa
still in so experimental a stage that there
is comparatively little information avail- a collection of handcraft
able to aid recreation departments wish—
ing to develop nature recreation. We are
particularly glad. therefore. to present
the step by step methods followed by one
city. in the hope that the information
presented will help other communities.

games and conducted other ac—
tivities felt desirable. A record
was kept of each visit and the
particular interest and facili-
ties of each group were noted
in order to help in program
planning.

Purpose of the Program

The purpose of the activity was not to teach
nature study on the playground. It was. pri-
marily, to give the child an opportunity to come
in contact with new interesting fields, to give him
an opportunity to express himself and to partici—
pate in activities with others interested in the
same hobby. The problem was to provide the
stimulus that would encourage him to educate
himself by observing, reading and availing him—
self of trained leadership in scienceclasses, in the
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts and in similar organiza-
tions. An attempt was made to show him what
nature possibilities existed all around him and
how he might make use of them. It was hoped
to help him to know how to enjoy nature, collect
intelligently and conserve our plants and animals.
It was not intended that the child be subjected to
talks and be shown specimens alone, but that he .
collect and bring his finds and treasures to the
playground, handle the specimens and participate
in nature handcrafts by making things himself.

Initiating the Program

Although certain basic principles governed pro-
gramming, no two playgrounds conducted the ac-
tivity exactly alike. The flexibility and scope of
the subject allowed for original methods in build-
ing up a sound and attractive program. The most
thOIOUghly satisfactory procedure developed was
as follows:

The special nature super-
visor visited a playground

spiders and other animals and

projects and materials for
developing a nature program.
During a demonstration he
suggested to the children that
they would have an exciting

A NATURE PROGRAM ON A PLAYGROUND 69

and to discover whether
they were really interest-
ed. The program had to
be interesting and' well
planned in order to com-
pete with the other play-
ground and neighborhood
activities. The most suc-
cessful clubs were those
working toward definite
goals, such as animal
shows or nature exhibits
of some kind. A maxi—
mum membership of
twenty or twenty~five was
found advisable. Chil-
dren on a waiting list re-
placed those leaving for

 

Courtesy Bufalo Museum of Science

vacations.

Rules in' most cases
time if they organized a nature club or partici- were few and flexible. The number of meetings
pated in some type of nature activity. This initial varied from three a week to one a month, but per-
visit was the means of arousing group enthusiasm haps the most satisfactory arrangement was one
and interest in having a na- afternoon meeting a week.

Hiltes and field trips have“ an important

, The meeting programs in-
. . . part to play In a program of nature rec-
falled to respond immedlately mark)”. on +hese field MP5 children cluded games and nature

to these suggestions, (a rare may search for specimens of flowers and craftS, stories by the director

occurrence), nothing further minerals {Or their °°lle¢+l°ns and 5+“dY and children, reading, demon—

was attem ted unles the Chi1_ trees and various forms of life. They
p , p S, , ., , mayI too, visit local museums and zoos.
dren on their own initiative

requested 'a nature program or activity. A
nature program was never forced upon a
group. As the next step, the supervisor
and the playground director discussed the
results of the visit and planned a program
adapted to the particular situation.

A few of the most successful ways of
promoting the program were through
starting playground nature clubs, natural
history museums, weekly nature meetings,
or a combination of these activities. Hikes.
nature handcraft and repeated visits of
the supervisor rounded out the program.

ture program. If the group

strations, construction peri-
ods, study recounting of out—

Nature Clubs

The formation of nature clubs proved
to be one of the best ways of developing
enthusiasm for the program. Most of the
clubs were formed by following the usual I
procedure for organizing children’s clubs. I r  t '    ' ‘_ ' -

It was found quite helpful to require   n   .   . ,
children to attend , two meetings before  ’f  3 “ , __ p, _ W
joining in order to satisfy their curiosity  Amie-5y Llevjladiowhz'o, erolilan Park Board

     

70 A NATURE PROGRAM ON A PLAYGROUND

door vacation experiences, pictures and slides,
contests, and so on. Hikes, trips avfield, intelli—
gent collecting and other activities were held in
addition to the regular meetings.

A Sample Club

A brief description of the major steps~in the
formation and operation of one club which met
regularly one afternoon a week will be helpful.
The report covers only the special events, omit-

 

Courtcsy Children’s Aluseum News, Brooklyn Children’s Museum

ing such matters as regular club business, games,
contests and so on.

First Week. The initial Visit of the nature su-
pervisor was made to the playground as described.
The group was composed of boys and girls be-
tween the ages of eight and fourteen years, all
children who seemed enthusiastic about every-
thing suggested. Plans were made for a hike two
daysdater and for the forming of a club early the
following week. The hike was taken and each
child collected one or more specimens to exhibit

on the playground for the benefit of the children
who had not gone on the trip.

Second Week. A regular meeting for the or-
ganization of a nature club was held under the
supervision of the playground director. Officers
were elected and the club named. All the children
present who attended the first hike and brought
one exhibit—the prescribed initiation fee—be-
came charter members and those who had seen
the exhibit set up by the hikers and attended this
first meeting out of
curiosity were in-
formed they could'
become members by
attending a second
meeting. The charter
members.were divid-
ed into two groups
and each group se-
lected its leader and

Young mineralogists
'rom the Brooklyn

Children's Museum

study outcroppings
of rock in Central

Park. New York City

name. It was decid-
ed to have a special
nature club bulletin
board in the nature
den in addition to
using the playground
bulletin board and
the weekly play-
ground newspaper
for nature announce-
ments and features.
An attendance record for each of the two groups
in the club was posted on the bulletin board. The
program for this meeting consisted of a report by
one of the children who told of the hike and each
hiker’s description of what he had found and
brought back as an exhibit and what he liked
most about the trip.

During the week the director and the officers
of the club arranged a nature den in the corner of
the craft room. Bookcases were obtained for
both sections of the club to use for display pur-
poses and a table was placed between the book-

A NATURE PROGRAM ON A PLAYGROUND 71

cases for the more bulky exhibits. The walls were
used for hanging charts, pictures, star maps, pine.
cones, feathers and other specimens.

Third Week. Nature scrap books were made for
nature prints and both sections of the club were
asked to prepare three minute speeches‘ for club
meeting.

Fourth Week. The nature club learned blue
printing.

Fifth Week. Nature slides were shown and spat-
ter printing was taken up.

Sixth Week. A trip was made to the Zoo. There
were talks by the children and a story by the play-
ground director.

Seventh Week. The club examined study skins
of birds and made ink prints.

Eighth Week. This, the final meeting, took the
form of a party. Reports were made on outdoor
vacation experiences and exhibits were returned
to the donors.

Natural History Museum

The miniature natural history museums added
a great deal to the playground program. Many
children who helped in making them and in con-
tributing exhibits were first drawn into the pro-
gram through this activity. Most of the nature
clubs developed museums, but even when the
museum was not sponsored by a formal~nature
club, the children enjoyed setting it up just as
much.

In many clubs each child was required to con-
tribute at least one exhibit as an initiation fee to
the club. Deer horns, mounted butterflies, pine
cones, leaves, rattlesnake rattles, fossils, wasps
nests, rocks, and countless other specimens liter—
ally streamed into some of these museums; Every
vacationist managed to find room in the car to
bring back whatever he thought might be added
to the museum. One pair of parents was faced
with the problem of packing the bones from an
almost complete horse skeleton; another pair,
with returning with an old coyote skin which the
children insisted must be brought back to the
playground museum.

“Museum Curator” or some other impressive
title was given to the person in charge of exhibits.
Each exhibit was credited to its donor, and when
feasible the director or special supervisor prepar-
ed labels and facts of interest about the specimen.
Valuable information concerning poisonous rep-
tiles, poisonous fruits, berries and so on was

stressed and conservation was emphasized con-
tinuously.

The museums were not elaborate. A few were
in rooms set aside as museums, but a corner of
the craft space more often had to sufiice. Wall
space for posters and charts, tables and a few
bookcases or boxes arranged as shelves solved the
shelving and display problem. One part of the
space was often reserved for photographs, another
for exhibiting the best handcraft of the week.
Some exhibits, as pine cones, large seeds and the
like, were attached to strings and thumb-tacked
to the wall.

Playgrounds without indoor space for the mu-
seum set up their exhibits in boxes which were
brought in each evening. Empty athletic equip-
ment boxes were used in a few cases. Some en-
terprising directors set Up outdoor museums and
left them outside all summer. Only one museum.
indoor or out, was purposely disturbed. The chil-
dren took great pride in protecting their museum
since it was the result of their own efforts.

Living exhibits consisted of animals requiring
little care. Aquaria were especially successful proj-
ects. Frogs, ants, mosquitoes and blowfiies were
reared through all stages from egg to adult and
each museum was supplied with mosquito eggs
and a chart describing the important stages in the
life history of an insect. The Insect Life Merif'
Badge Pamphlet of the Boy Scouts of America
was made available to each playground director as
a source of directions for the construction of
cages for live insects.

A collection showing the natural bark of trees
and the color and grain of their wood proved very
interesting. Wild Hower seeds and tree seeds were
glued on large cards or placed in small bottles.
Flowers were dried in a regular press or in a
magazine and then mounted with blue or gummed
paper and insects were impaled on insect pins and
mounted in cigar boxes or on display boards.

Home-made “killing jars” were constructed by
pouring one-half inch of plaster of Paris into a
mayonnaise jar and allowing it to set for two
days. Then a spoonful or two of Carbona, a
cleaning Huid obtained at any ten cent store, was
poured in. The active element in this is carbon
tetrachloride which might have been purchased at
a drug store and used instead. The jar was kept
tightly closed so that the fumes would last for
some time before more Carbona had to be added.
The fumes of this liquid kills the specimen in a
few moments. Some specimen jars were made by

72 A NATURE PROGRAM ON A PLAYGROUND

supervisor to do it.
while in the clubs
the club members
contributed more to
the planning and
carrying out of the
program.

using potassium
cyanide, a very
deadly poison. A
crystal of the cya—
nide was placed on
the bottom of the
jar and covered
with about one inch
of plaster of Paris.
A jar of this sort
lasts a year or more
without any atten-
tion. Cyanide jars
were used only In answering ques—
when the ‘play- '  _ _ I. M _ tions of the young-
ground director or  i ' A. fii'lwn,     i , " ' sters, an attempt “
nature supervisor Courtesy Lo: Angela: Playground and Recreation Department Y WEIS made to make
was with the children. nature as interesting as pos-

Snakes, birds and other The development of a love of animals and Sible- Sticks and rocks re-
small creatures which were a knowledge .ot their habits and traits is sembling animals were
found dead were preserved one of the obIectwes of a nature program. sought. SOW bug races,

. . Pth th I d .
m a  of   be:  itasgaizdgtzit".21:2:     

Hikes

The hikes were
among the most
successful parts of
the whole program.

 

formaldehyde- The aICOhOl ciation. To this traditional nature ac- nature games were played'
solution was used at about tivity others are being rapidly added. The Children made plaster
Soto 85 per cent. The form— casts of animal tracks, col—
aldehyde was obtained in 40 per cent solution and lections for the playground museum, lists of birds
diluted about ten times with water. Paraffin or they had seen, and noted interesting observations
lacquer was used to to post on the bulletin
seal the bottles tightly. . ' board.

Nature Games and Nature Handcrafts

Contests Nature handcrafts

played a very important
part in the programs of
some playgrounds. The
children made smoke
prints, plaster casts,
blue prints, Ozalid
prints, ink prints, spat-
ter prints, bird houses,
scrap books, star maps,
artificial ant houses, bird
boxes, pine cone craft,
sea shell craft and ex-
hibits, and exhibited
them on their play-
grounds. Directions and
supplies for these crafts
were available through
the Recreation Depart-
ment.

Game sheets and con-
test suggestions and
rules were prepared and
mimeographed. This re-
duced the individual
effort each director
would have to expend
in preparing for this
part of the program.

The Nature Hour

A few directors con-
ducted a general nature
hour once or twice a
week. This hour was
not unlike the pro-
grams of the nature
clubs, except that the
director planned and
presented the program

“r requeSted the SP€C131 Courtesy Cleveland, Ohio, Metropolitan Park Board (Continued on page 109)

 

"Once
Upon

a

Time"

Words of sheer
magic for child-

ren everywhere!

 

Courtesy Big Brother Association, Columbus, Ohio.

" T WAS a dark and stormy night. We were all
I seated around the camp fire when our brave
captain said, ‘Lieutenant, tell us a story.’ And

this is the way it went.

“ ‘It was a dark and stormy night. We were
all seated around the camp fire when our brave
captain said, “Lieutenant, tell us a story.” And
this is the way it went.’ ”

\Vith this bit of by-play, and with all the voice
aiTectations at the storyteller’s command, is her-
alded that magic period of the camp fire, the
story hour. ,

As the laughter dies away the campers settle
themselves into positions of greater ease, draw
their blankets about their shoulders and nudge
their neighbors into silence. The teller of tales
stands silent with folded arms. The fire bringer
crosses sticks upon the fire; a brave places a
folded blanket before its blaze.

When complete silence reigns the ’storyteller
steps toward the center of the counsel ring. He
takes sand from his medicine bag, traces a swas-
tika on the ground and tosses sand to the four
winds. He seats himself, cross legged, on the
blanket. The silence is unbroken, for the braves
know that the story cannot begin until all is quiet.

The story is one of adventure, and early in its
telling there is created a suspense that commands
a breathless attention until the hnal word is
spoken. There is no faltering, no groping for

By IRVING A. WAGNER
Executive Secretary.
The Big Brother Association
Columbus, Ohio

words by the narrator. He knows his story well
and allows no pause to break the magic spell his
words create. Here is no mere storyteller; here
is a maker of adventure, a dream bringer who
wafts his hearers into the wilderness to live with
him the struggles, the feats of daring, and the
close escapes of the hero of the tale.

Contrast this scene with the more usual one at
camp fires. The storyteller begins, poorly an-
nounced, if at all, to tell a story which he himself
knows but indifferently well. He falters, repeats
himself, and retraces his tale to give omitted in-
cidents. The story is poorly selected; there is in-
sufficient incident or action, excessive description,
and little or no suspense, unless, as is all too fre-
quently the case, the story depends entirely on
gruesomeness, horror, or other ghostly qualities:
There is confusion among the listeners, whisper-
ing and disruption by the counselors, and inatten-
tion generally because of the poor technique of

the teller.

The Setting

The perfect setting for storytelling is around
the camp fire, but this is by no means the only

73

74 “ONCE UPON A TIME”

suitable setting. A wider use should be made of
a program feature of such versatility, universal
appreciation and ease of mastering. One of the
purposes of this article is to suggest several of
the other times and places where.this excellent
form of recreation can be employed.

Whenever, wherever, a group of children,
large or small, is assembled, then and there is a
suitable setting for the telling of tales. In club
meetings, Scout meetings, on bus trips, at parties,
on hikes, in the recreation hall or cabin on rainy
days in camp, around the fireplace at winter camp,
on the playground on hot or rainy days, in chil—
dren’s hospitals. and institutions all these times
and places invite the storyteller to ply his art.
Nor need the use of storytelling be confined to
. children’s groups alone. The writer has been in
frequent demand among young people’s gather-
ings to entertain with a story or two.

One of the greatest values of the extended use
of storytelling is the spontaneity with which it
can be used to fill unexpected gaps and emergen—
cies in almost any program. Like the singing of
group songs it can be used at a minute’s notice
and without equipment. All that is needed is that
the storyteller keep himself prepared at all times
with a well—learned story.

The writer well remembers one summer in
camp when a story, learned and ready, prevented
a night of panic. In spite of careful counseloring
and strict camp taboo, a ghost scare had gotten
started shortly after dark. By added misfortune
a fire broke out in the kitchen just after taps. By
the time the blaze was extinguished the rumor
had gone the rounds that the fire had been set
by the ghost of the one—armed brakeman. It was
evident that a night of wakefulness and terror
was threatened. -

The boys were assembled in headquarters, and
the true cause of the fire was explained to them.
A few songs were sung, and Cheley’s The H ermit
of Cloudy Ridge Was told. At the conclusion of
the story several of the younger boys were
already asleep. All returned to their bunks, and
in a short time they had set- '
tled to a peaceful sleep. All
disturbing thoughts of ghosts
and one—armed brakemen had
been displaced by soothing
visions of the kind old her-

mit with his bear, Silver
Sides.

Not the least interesting thing about
telling stories is the diversity of
opinion which exists regarding a num-
ber of matters. Mr. Wagner, for ex-
ample. feels it highly undesirable to
tell ghost stories. You may not. but
nevertheless we believe you will find
his presentation keenly interesting.

What Is the Secret?

Perhaps you ask, “How can I become a good
storyteller ?”

1 answer, “You probably are one but have yet
to learn of your own ability.”

There is no special gift required for this ac—
tivity. It is not even necessary to master a dif—
ficult technique. The entire secret lies in two
easily accomplished details. First, the selection of
the story, and, second, its thorough learning.

As suggested above, a story.for telling should
have a predominant and well-connected chain of
incidents. Excessive description (unless the teller
really is gifted) is hard to handle, as it has but
little appeal to children. Suspense is the element
that outranks all others in holding interest. Ex-
cessive conversation is hard to handle even with
experience, so it is usually wise to select stories
with a minimum of dialogue. In most cases such
dialogue as is necessary can very effectively be
converted into narrative. However, a limited num-
ber of quotations are not hard to master, and add
vividness and life to a tale, so it will not be found
wise to exclude them entirely.

Selecting Stories

And now a few “don’ts” in selecting stories.
Don’t select ghost or horror stories. Almost every
storyteller’s natural tendency is to do so, and
almost every group of boys (perhaps girls, too,)
will howl for ghost stories. In spite of this, I
repeat, “Don’t.” This warning comes from ex—
perience. In spite of the enthusiasm of the ma—
jority of the group, there is usually a minority
who do not enjoy horror stories and who suffer
strong emotional reactions to them. I am forced
to admit that a careful and limited use of the
stories of Edgar Allan Poe may do no harm, but
I loudly'acclaim that the best psychologist on
earth cannot tell what time is a safe time or which
is a safe group. There are plenty of other good
stories to use, so the advisable thing to do is to
play completely safe and omit ghost stories
entirely.

Don’t select stories with long
descriptive passages. And don’t
select too long stories (whole
books or extra long short
stories) unless you are sure
they can be cut down to telling
length without spoiling them.
No story should last over an

“ONCE UPON A TIME” 75

hour, and only rarely as long as that. Novels can
occasionally be told serially on succeeding nights,
but there are many objections to this practice.

How to Tell Stories

There is one outstanding perquisite to telling a
story well, and that is knowing it almost word for
word. Anything less than this will defeat all ef-
forts to tell the story fluently. The author who
wrote the story has gone to great pains to phrase
and dovetail the many incidents of his tale, and
his work cannot be tampered with without de-
stroying some of its effectiveness. Moreover, any-
thing less than complete mastery of the story will
result in pauses, repetition and retracing of steps
in the unfolding
of the tale. Such
pauses and in-
terruptions al-
ways detract and
permit the lis-
teners to shift
their attention.
Even a momen-
tary loss of at-
tention will
harm, if not en-
tirely spoil a
story. Even the
best story can-
not stand repeat-
ed interruptions
of attention.

Make no spe-
cial effort to ac-
complish voice
effects unless you
are definitely skilled along that line or the story
especially calls for it. (The three voices in the
“Three Bear” type of story should not be’too
much for you.) Speak in a natural, clear, dis-
tinct and fairly loud voice, and don’t speak too
rapidly. If you use dialogue make certain by in-
tonation or introduction that it is clearly under-
stood to be dialogue, and make a clear distinction
between the statements of different characters.

As a rule a story needs no introductory state-
ment, nor are children often interested in such
statements. The mere name of the story is usually
enough. Storytellers sometimes tell all their
stories in the first person and represent them as
being true. This practice seems to the writer to

c- " m2",  “En-.1?- ICR" 

Courtesy Photographic Division, Federal Arts Project, PVPA, New York City

add but little to the story and to be essentially
undesirable.

Don’t attempt to point out the morals of your
stories. Tell them as they are written and if there
is a moral there it will usually get across. If you
feel that you must drive home a lesson make it
brief ; don’t preach a sermon.

When you have told the last incident as the
author wrote it, stop. Any added words or ex-
planations of your own will be anti-climatic and
will detract from the effect of the story. If you
enjoyed it the way it was written so will your
hearers.

Don’t think you can “get by” by reading the
story instead of telling it. Children always prefer

 

13¢  .-zgc--:2x-:m?-‘m.;.wg;r  1.5.. —.- ,, ,, War. - _ _.,, ‘~ gu‘

There is great fascination for girls.
as well as for boys, in Indian lore

to have a story told, even if poorly done, to hav-
ing it read.

Children like to tell stories themselves and
should be encouraged to do so. There are several
precautions, however, to be observed to make the
practice effective. Encourage the children to know
their stories well before trying to tell them. The
group interest in hearing stories will suffer if the
period is permitted to become monotonous or un-
interesting once or twice.

Unless you have an especially able child who is
well coached, have him confine his storytelling to

(Continued on page 110)

A ulzriendlier Neighborhood" Summer

HE EXTENT to which a pub—

lic recreation system func-

tions in family life has
never been measured, but there
is no doubt that much of our
program is too far removed
from the family to be consid-
ered an integral part of its
everyday life. We conduct
many of our so-called city-
wide activities at great dis-
tances from the local play-
ground, and we “wind up” what we call a success-
ful season with an elaborate pageant in some cen-
tral park, with three or four thousand children
brought in on street cars from each neighborhood.
\Ve play before large picked audiences represent-
ing our boards, and mothers and fathers best able
to afford to come in for the pageant. All the local
neighborhood gets is the hurry and scurry of mak—
ing costumes, and the preparation for participa-
tion in the event. Often they do not have the fun
of seeing the play and knowing the accomplish-
ments of the season’s work. This same principle
holds in athletic leagues, hobby shows and other
summer events.

With this consideration in mind we built our
1937 playground program in Wilkes-Barre about
the theme a “Friendlier Neighborhood” summer.
It might just as well have been called a “Family
Playground” summer.

The city was divided into very distinct neigh-
borhoods, not more than five playgrounds partici—
pating in each neighboring group. The boroughs
and distantly removed grounds were operated as
separate neighborhoods, one ground being the
only unit participating. This automatically gave
us racial groupings. Each neighborhood held its
own tournaments, festivals, street carnivals, craft
shows and baby shows. There was no inter—play-
ground competition; even the
athletic leagues were conduct-
ed within the neighborhood.
However, at the end of the
season there was a final tour—
nament of winners.

A Neighborhood Fair

The final event of the sea-
son consisted of a neighbor-

76

By RUTH E. SWEZEY

Not a circus, not a dance
festival, not a city-wide
event, but a neighborhood
affair was the finale of
last summer's playground
season in Wilkes-Barre

Miss Swezey is Executive Director' Play—
-ground and Recreation Association of
Wyoming Valley. Pennsylvania. Anyone
who is interested in developing such a
fair as she describes in this article will
want to secure a copy of the bulletin
entitled "A Mid-Summer Fair or Festi-
val" which is issued free of charge by
the National Recreation Association.

hood fair given in each neigh-
borhood during the last week
of the playground season. The
participants were allowed to
take part in their own neigh-
borhood fair only. There were
over twenty fairs during the
closing playground week.

The song “Come to the
Fair” was used as the theme
song for the summer. The fair
was a spontaneous and happy
affair; each ground made its own booths for craft
displays, fortune—tellers, puppet or marionette
shows. The WPA band played for many of the
events, supplemented by local musical groups.
Each fair program was different, but in general
it included the following:

I. “Come to the IFair”—sung by everyone in—
cluding the audience led by a local song
leader in a very gay and informal style

2. Tumbling act

3. Folk dance or country dance group

4. Magician act

5. Strolling minstrels, or a minstrel

6. A dramatic skit such as “The Womanless
Wedding,” the “Coronation of the Health
Queen or Playground Queen"

7. More dancers

8. Dramatized poem or song such as “Soldier,
Soldier” or “McNamara’s Band”

9. Community singing and a good night song

In our two weeks’ institute held preceding the
opening of the playgrounds, we tried in every way
to equip the teachers for a program that would
reach family life. Some of the subjects discussed
were: How to build a friendlier neighborhood
through the playground program; individual dif-
ferences in children; coordinating the neighbor-
hood and the playground program; dances of ra-
cial groups; and crafts and
story-telling as related to
home life. These topics and
others were discussed by
trained persons in the com-
munity, such as the directors
of settlements, the guidance
director of the public schools,

(Continued on page 111)

Sand Craft on the Playground

BABY ELEPHANT with its
A upraised trunk begging

for peanuts; a giraffe with
its long neck towering 'high
above the other animals; a big
grizzly bear sulking in his cage
in the corner; a tough old rhi—
noceros repulsive looking in all
his monstrousness. And then a
dainty little bareback rider bal-
anced precariously on her gain
prancing steed, followed closely
by a comical looking clown with
all his exaggerated awkwardness. And around
this collection a group of bright-eyed children
gazing with joy and pride at their circus made
entirely of sandl .

And here you have a picture of what is going
on in the sand boxes of the playgrounds of Aus-
tin, Texas, where sand craft is one of the most
popular of playground activities.

Regular classes or sand craft hours are con-
ducted on the playgrounds, some meeting daily
and others several times a week. The type of
sand craft which is proving most popular on one
ground is sand carving. For this activity_the sand
is thoroughly watered every day, preferably two
or three hours before the children begin work,
thus allowing the water to penetrate throughout
the entire box.

The Process

Each child selects a space to work in and pats
and smooths the sand with his hands until it is
thoroughly packed and level.
\N'ith a sharp, pointed instru-
ment—a “sucker” stick or a
twig-— the leader in charge
draws for each child the figure
selected for that day’s work.
This plan gives each child an
equal chance,
and his crea-
tive ability is
brought into
play in the
s k ill with
which he
handles his

By VERNA DEAN CRAVEN
Austin' Texas

No longer is the sand box regarded
as the play area of the preschool
child exclusively! Instead, it is be-
coming a popular place for chil-
dren as old as fifteen years. Nor
‘is it unusual for father and mother
to try their skill at sand modeling
while grandparents otter sugges-
tions from near-by benches! '

As Texas celebrated its Centennial in
I936. the playgrounds naturally made
use of this theme last summer in pre-
paring tor the inter-playground sand
craft exhibit. Children of the Pease
Park playground designed and carved
the model which is presented here.

 

subject and the little individual
touches he puts into his work.

Some children cannot draw a
recognizable animal and shy-
ness prevents them from par-
ticipating in a new activity in-
volving artistic ability. For this
reason on our playgrounds the
standard drawing prevails dur-
ing the early part of the season.
Then when the children have
gained a feeling of familiarity
with their subject, each child
does his own drawing. By this time they have
spent many hours outside of the regular super-
vised period in the sand box reproducing for them-
selves the objects made in class. Thus all are able
to draw some of the most p0pular animals, and
the more talented will now attempt new figures.

After the figure has been drawn the child be-
gins carving the sand away from the outer edges.
Although the fingers may be used, better and
neater results can be obtained by using a small flat
board or a knife. Wooden ice cream spoons make
satisfactory and inexpensive tools. The figure
should be carved to a depth of about one and a
half inches, the carving always being straight
down so that the sides of the finished model will
form right angles with the background which
should be leveled off to the same depth. All
sand removed in the carving is thrown into the
middle of the box where it can be easily leveled
off again the next day before the sand is watered.
When the desired depth is reached, the carver
goes over his, model smooth-
ing rough edges and rebuild-
ing broken corners. Then he
draws the inside features of
the figure or builds up and
rounds out parts of the body.
When the model has been sat-
isfactorily fin-
i s h e d h e
smooths out
t h e b a c k -
ground.

It is at this
pointthat
great ca re

77

78 SAND CRAFT ON THE PLAYGROUND

must be taken. Even a
well—modeled figure will
not show up unless the
background is patted and
smoothed until all finger
prints and marks of carv-
ing are gone. This finish-
ing up process of both
the model and the back—
ground cannot be stress—
ed too much. It teaches
the child to complete
anything he starts and
discourages slovenly,
half done work.

As an added incentive
to good work an adult on
the ground is selected
each day to judge the
children’s carvings and to mark each model. Every
model is given some marking, either first, second
or third, since even a low rating gives a child
more satisfaction than none at all and serves as a
stimulus for better work the next day.

Any leader who wishes to can make the sand
box one of the most popular spots on the play-
ground. She will have great fun discovering ar-
tistic talents that she did not know she possessed.
And she will have the added joy of bringing out
the creative ability of playground children.

In Sand Craft,* j. Leonard Mason points out
some of the enjoyable features and the values in-
volved in sand craft. A few follow:

Sand craft is systematized sand play. It pro-
vides for a classification of subjects, the proper
conditions for modeling and a set of working
tools. . . . After the constructive process has been
thoroughly enjoyed and the finished product has
“had its day,” the sand is once more reduced to
its normal level, ready to appear again in new and
different shapes. Here lies one of the chief charms
of sand craft—the pliable sand always awaiting
the new experiments of the sand builder.

Sand modeling is largely a play of imagination.
Almost any subject can be modeled, thus provid-
ing a never—ending source of interest. The child
learns to observe things carefully and in detail in
order to reproduce them correctly. Attention to
details is a valuable habit to form. Observation
and memory of objects in detail are strongly de—

 

* Published by I. L. Hammett Company, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts. $1.00.

 

With their model of an Indian headI children of

Bailey Playground were tied for first place in
Austin's inter-playground sand craft contest.

veloped. The brain must be as active as the hands
in correct reproduction.

The recreational value lies in the absorbing in-
terest of the play. All else is forgotten for the
time being. It is going back to the old occupae
tions of the race and dealing with Mother Nature
herself and the history of creation. A group was
looking at a model of a camp in sand when some-
one remarked that he felt as if he were in a real
camp. Even the old farm with the hill behind the
barn may be called back to life.

There is much of social value to be gained when
a group of children play together at one sand box.
A certain space is allotted to each child, and each
must respect the rights of the others. Often two
or more persons will work together on one sub-
ject, each contributing ideas and labor to its suc—
cess and sharing in the triumph of its final com—
pleted glory. The way the group of builders learn
to play together is very interesting from a social
viewpoint. It is a lesson in team work and co-
operation, the teacher guiding the play along lines
of neatness, courtesy and industry.

There is a test of patience and perseverance in—
volved. The sand may break up a number of times
before it finally holds its shape, as for example, in
forming an arch or a chimney on a house. The
thing may have to be tried over and over again
before it finally becomes a success. If we look

(Continued on. page 111)

 

Neighborhood Day Camping in New York City

"The purpose of our whole program
will be ius’rified if the camping idea is
caught and used increasingly.because
such recreation may well be the means
of injecting into a workaday world
something that may be the source
of fresh inspiration and serenity."

AY CAMPING has recently had a burst of rec—
D ognition in this region. Until quite lately,
when the topic was mentioned at all it was
given only slight attention, and then considered as
a by—product of the regular organized camping
program. N ow it has its own place in the sun and
is admittedly an introduction to the woods and
fields and streams and open-sky country.

This spring, at the National Convention of the
American 7 CampingAssociation, there was a panel
devoted to day camping which was attended by
individuals from Idaho, Nebraska, Pennsylvania,
Connecticut and other widely separated parts of
this country. The'camp leadership course at C0-
lumbia University devoted a section to day camp—
ing, and the group there was interested from many
angles. Some were conducting private ventures;
others were interested in the use of such a pro-

By MAUDE L. DRYDEN

Senior Proiecf Supervsior '
Day Outing Camps
WPA. New York City

gram in a summer family colony. To say that the
discussion was lively is an understatement.

What was proven in these meetings was that day
camping has been found to have a very wide ap—
plication and yet it has one concrete aim, The
great central theme of this program is the en—
couragement of folks to becomepacquainted with
the distinct satisfactions of recreation in the open
countryside. This, of course, has been particu—
larly needed in New York City where there is so
little knowledge of the country and so many forces
holding people within small crowded areas. Open
country is, however, accessible to everyone, and
the recreation to be found there may be enjoyed
by all ages and with whatever money can be af—
forded. The one big hindrance to the widespread
use of such recreation is the lack of knowledge of
what can be done and of how to set about doing
it. There is also a lack of appreciation of the

values to be gained.

79

80 NEIGHBORHOOD DAY CAMPING IN NEW YORK CITY

It is probably safe to say everyone has a desire
to revel in the out of doors, but the difficulty is
to know where to begin. And that is'why WPA
is establishing neighborhood day camps wherever
there is the slightest opportunity for doing so in

New York City.

Roof Camps .

Ernest Thompson Seton says in the “Birc
Bark Roll of the Woodcraft League”: “In our
big cities, where land is so valuable that an acre
commonly brings millions of dollars, where we
have long been pinched for playgrounds and
woodcraft pursuits seem out of the question, all
the cry is for light and space. And with all this
need we have long shut our eyes to a most obvious
and abundant supply. In New York, congested
New York, for example, there are thousands of
acres of open sunlight, well—ventilated unused
space, which a very slight acquaintance with Ori-
ental or Occidental nations would have taught us
to use. We refer to the flat roofs. In Greater
New York these must amount to nearly ten thou-
sand acres; half at least of this offers good
chances for roof camps.”

So neighborhood day camps have been estab-
lished on roof tops as well as in open lots or
yards. Usually these sites are connected with
some recreational agency, church or civic organi-
zation, but some locations, too, have been made
possible through the generosity of a private in—
dividual and property owner. Whatever the site
may be, the first step is to create as camp-like an
atmosphere as is possible, to emphasize the idea
that the activities are to be of a camp-like nature.

The first one of the sites established by the
Camping Project of the WPA in New York was
in a yard back of a Y.M.C.A. in Brooklyn where
a high sign board separated the yard from the
' street. This huge sign board had supports reach-
ing into the yard, seeming to use up a lot of the
precious open space. This turned out to be any-
thing but a handicap, as the boys themselves very
quickly found a splendid way to use these beams.
When the Indian idea was presented to the boys,
they divided themselves into tribes, and each tribe
hastily claimed one of the billboard-arm sections,
setting up tribal quarters there. One section had
a tepee, another a lean-to shelter, and each had its
own type of fire in front of the shelter. Fire mak-
ing, with its never-failing appeal, of course comes
lirst and, following lessons in various kinds of
tires and their different uses, comes cooking.

“Mickeys” are first efforts along this line. Later,
bacon and eggs are tackled and eventually ambi-
tion leads on to stews, biscuits, corn roasts and
the like.

On a roof atop a church, which now finds itself
in the heart of the garment center of Manhattan,
there is a sizable area where an Adirondack lean-
to is set amidst bark covered tubs of privet, with
logs lying about and a rock fireplace. There is a
sprawling rock garden with a tiny pool for polli-
wogs, and boxes filled with plants from the woods
have been set about. On the April day this spring
when snow gave New York its memorable sur-
prise visit, it was equally surprising and quite an
unusual delight to find that the coltsfoot had sent
up myriads of yellow blossoms that braved that
snow. In the rock garden rank day-flowers have
already come to life; gill-over-the-ground is show-
ing its little blue flowers, and leaves of the golden—
rod have made their appearance. A rustic bench
adds to the general effect, and all the neighbor-
hood’s Christmas trees have found a resting place
on this roof, to be used for many purposes. Just
now the daily fires and cooking have been dis-
placed by the advent of the perennial spring
games, such as horseshoe pitching, duck on the
rock, a little baseball and jumping rope.

Up in Harlem another church houses a neigh—
borhood day camp where only a tiny bit of a yard
is available. There was no door so steps had to be
built from the window. In spite of its inconveni-
ence there are many garden boxes in this yard,
and every child has planted his spring seeds. All
winter long there were terraria and aquaria to
tend, and the near-by parks were used every day,
with camping trips every Saturday. This was the‘

' chance to bring back cocoons and budded twigs

to place i11_water and watch come out into leaf
and flower.

Farther uptown are an orphanage and a public
school where day camping activities are conducted
in the big yard. Here a Cherokee Indian and
other recreation teachers have made the most of
out-of-the-city activities. With a real Indian in
their midst it is only natural to find Indian games
being made and played, and dances being done at
the Council ceremonies. Children attending for-
tunately can be taken in buses on regular trips to
a real'woods where tracking and trailing can be
done and real trees may be cut down to bring back
for use in constructing shelters.

And still farther uptown in the Bronx is an
institution for boys where there are more than a

NEIGHBORHOOD DAY CAMPING IN NEW YORK CITY 81

hundred acres of grounds with horses, pigs,
woods, streams, rocks and haystack. During the
winter skis were made of barrel staves, all sorts of
sleds were in use, and snow forts were made and
snow battles equal in romance to the wildest thril-
ler were fought! Some fifty fires were going at a
time and almost always one could find a nice
black but delectable “mickey” or roasted chest-
nuts. It was here that the insect hunts began.
Such a collection was hard to beat, and few there
were who knew what names to give more than a
half dozen. But there was the challenge to find
out about some more, so today these boys can call
many a horrible bug by a very nice name. They
know their snakes up there, too, and like them so
well_ they keep them all winter in the library or
nature nook. This spring one behaved badly and
ate a salamander. He gave the boys a good show,
however, because it took him three hours to swal-
low it!

One member of.the day camp staff is a cowboy
from out of the glamorous West and at this place
he was particularly welcomed on his rounds of the
camps. He had no trouble at all teaching these
boys the art of rope spinning, lassoing, and rodeo
games. They resurrected an old wagon and it
made a pretty good covered wagon when they
were finished with it.

Another clever idea developed at this camp was
a barter system. It all began with their garden
plots last year. Each boy had a packet of govern-
ment seeds, but when the produce was ready for
consumption it was a bit
monotonous to make a
Whole meal of beets
which one boy grew,
so he exchanged ,a
beet for a potato with
one friend, and with
another boy a beet
for a tomato. Thus'
he managed a better
meal! This year the
barter system is be-
ing extended and a
trading post is being i
set up for better
business deals. ,

Over on the East
Side a day camp was
kept inside a room
much of the winter
because a building

1» 4.

Quiet games' as well as active ones, have
their place in all types of camp programs

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Austin, Texas

was being wrecked next to its yard site. But fish-
ing trips had been high points _of interest in the
fall, so boat models were worth working on dur-
ing the winter and all sorts of fishing equipment
had to be made. Girls were busy with tin-can
craft, leather work and puppetry, and some of the
boys got the harmonicas into action.

Another East Side house has a roof with a lake
on it, tents where boys sleep overnight and make
their breakfasts on the open fire all year round.
Almost any afternoon one can haveoa hot baked
apple and hot cocoa or pop corn there. There are
some wonderful totem poles on the roof along
with the potted cedars. In the spring and sum-
mer there is real grass growing around the little
lake and a waterfall which is ingeniously fed by
a hose leading from the house. Log rolling and
pole tilting are among the sports attempted here,
and the ski slide defies description in limited space.

Out in Queens there are some locations so
fortunate as to be near a number of the city’s

beautiful parks where birch trees and ponds and

weeds with praying mantis, egg masses and other
forms of life abound. The praying mantis are
sure to hatch out any day now at the home loca-
tion and the polliwogs will be frogs some day.
_One location in Brooklyn is situated on the New
York Bay Shore and adjacent to another of the
city’s loveliest parks. Driftwood is to be had for
the picking, and the seven or eight fires can be
kept going all year round. The pas'sing ships be
come well known to these boys and girls, and they
have acquired a lot of sea
lore. They can tell you a lot
about shells, about
rocks and minerals,
too. They know a
great deal about rope
knots and hitches.
There is a railroad
siding near them, and
at Christmas time‘
they had a rare treat
to meet for the first
time live turkeys,
sheep, pigs and cat-
tle when a whole
train load was held
there for a couple of
days.

At another Brook-e
lyn site bows and ar-
rows and targets are

 

82 . NEIGHBORHOOD DAY CAMPING IN NEW YORK CITY

everywhere, and both boys and
girls seem to have equal inter—
est in them. They made looms
and wove pretty good rugs on
them. They have a lot of mu-
sic here but their barnyard
glee club was the greatest
success.

\Vhen the Brooklyn chil—
dren visit the Staten Island
camps there is quite a ceremony of preparation.
Sometimes they smoke signal across the bay to tell
they are coming and sometimes they wig-wag.
They have even tried heliOgraphing. The ferry
trip takes about a half hour, and that’s an ex-
perience. The camps on the Island have much
to offer because they have so much more room
to expand. They may not have too much area
immediately at their neighborhood site, but all
about them are fields and woods and open lots.
One is quite near the water front where the beach
makes discovery and romance a constant possi—
bility. The day. the cigar store-wooden Indian
was washed up was the big event! Rehabilitated,
he occupies a proud place at the home site. It was
here that one little girl was bewildered to know
why cherry trees got “wild.” They have made
some glorious and unusual kites here, too.

At an institution on Staten Island this spring
they found, while trying the sweet birch to see if
the sap was rising, that the bark made very good
chewing gum. They can make pretty good tea of
dried peppermint leaves and from sassafras roots.
This goes pretty well with the biscuits and meat
roasted over their open fires. They know a lot
about pruning and forestry and can snake logs
out of the woods to use in their shelter building.
They have more than a hundred acres and several
hundred boys and girls. All the Staten Island
campers know a great deal about rocks and miner-
als. And they do a lot of singing and dancing and
story—telling, and they dramatize their stories.

All this is not anything like a complete story of
the year-round practises employed at the neigh-
borhood camp sites. A clearer picture might be
gained if there were some generalization. Con—
cretely this is what the Recreation in Camps Proj—
ect is doing in New York City:

In previous articles the work done with the
Board of Education in city parks was explained.
This program is being continued with some
changes to meet new conditions from time to time.
The program takes care of the children from reg—

It is suggested that anyone wishing
further -intormation regarding day
camps in New York City consult the
following issues of Recreation contain-
ing additional articles on the subject
by Mrs. Dryden: March l936—"Win-
ter Day Camps in New York City";
May I936—"NewYorlt Tries Out New
Methods of Education";and May I937
——"What Games for the Day Camp?"

ular school classes during the
school terms. Each child gets
out to the day camps in the
city parks about once in three
weeks; that is, those classes
which have been scheduled
for this prOgram. In the sum-
mer, the children enrolled in
the Board of Education sum-
mer play schools attend the
(lay camps two days every week.

Some of the Things They Do

The neighborhood camps’ program is for chil-
dren in the immediate community after school
hours and on Saturdays during the fall, winter
and spring. In the summer time the children at-
tend every day all day. Camping trips are taken
and their destinations are within five cent car-
fare distance.

Program Iterris

It has seemed advisable to prepare rather spe-
cific motivating program schedules so that sea-
sonal activities will be followed and real continu-
ity made possible. The outline of all the programs
includes pioneering, camp craft and other crafts.
games, American folk songs, play dances, story-
telling and dramatizations, and special day cele-
brations. Pioneering includes use and care of axes
and jackknives, boxing the compass and its use,
use of telescope, tracking and trailing, roping and
knots, fishing and camera hunting and use of
blinds. Camp crafts cover the making of such
articles as mineral specimen boxes, fishing equip-
ment, whittling, bird baths, bird houses and feed-
ing stations, simple compasses and telescopes, star
boxes, hot beds, weather charts, weather vanes,
knapsacks, terraria, aquaria and ant houses. Na—
ture activities involve observation of trees, rocks,
soil earthworms, snakes, frogs, flowers and in—
sects; games suggested should be those which can
be played anywhere and preferably without special
equipment, such as run sheep run, leap frog, poi—
son. relays and others. Stories chosen may well
emphasize American folk lore which can be dra—
matized. Among these may be “Uncle Remus
Tales,” “Paul Bunyan Tales” and “Tanglewood
Tales.” Music may emphasize American folk
songs, such as “Old Zip Coon,” “Paw-Paw Patch,”
“Yankee Doodle” and “Turkey in the Straw.”
Play dances are little more than games except that

(Continued on page 112)

When the Finale ls a Pageant

Very often it’s a circus, but the traditional
pageant still persists in many cities, and it
can be very effective, experience has shown

UMMER is about to turn the corner, and be-

fore you can say “Jack Robinson” it will be

time for the finale of the playground season!
What will it be? A pageant in many cases, if we
can judge by past events. So here are briefs of a
number of pageants developed in several cities,
showing the various types of themes selected and
how the playground activities of singing and danc-
ing and games were woven into them. The ex-
perience of these communities may be of help to
you in planning a playground pageant for your
own community.

Recreation, Ancient and Modern

Three parks of the Union County, New Jersey,
Park System combined last year to portray “Rec-
reation, Ancient and Modern” in a pageant.

The prologue shows children playing. games
which are followed by a story hour. At its con-
clusion a small child asks about play in other
times. Lights go out, and, as they come up, a
Greek dance takes place on the stage. At its ‘end
spots reveal a revolving dias draped in black on
which are white living figures depicting various
Greek sports—Athena, the Discus Thrower, the
\Vrestlers, the Javelin Thrower, Boxers, the
Archer, Mercury and the Runners.

The child appreciates these statue pictures, but
says the Greek play wasn’t as much fun as his
own. The announcer takes the child to Rome to
see Roman soldiers drilling, then on to various
other countries in more modern times. They go
to France, Switzerland, Italy, Scotland, Norway
and Holland and see dances of the people of these
countries.

Then the child says, “Well, these people have all
had a very good time, but I don’t think they had
as much fun as we do at our playground. Let’s
show What we do.” So on the revolving stage in
tableau the playground activities are shown—-
paddle tennis, baseball, basketball, ring tennis,
dodge ball, tumbling, pyramid building and hand—

craft. The characters are dressed in bright, ap-
propriate costumes.

In the epilogue, tribute is paid to the people
who have brought their customs and traditions
and dances to America. The effect of these cul-
tures on our dances is shown in a square dance,
tap dance, modern and ballet dance. As a finale
all the characters mass on the stage, turning to-
ward the Spirit of Play—a small girl in blue hold—
ing a white volley ball.

An Historical Pageant

“Redding Towne,” a folk pageant telling of the
history of Reading, Pennsylvania, was presented
last fall by the Department of Public Playgrounds
and Recreation of that city. The theme of this
pageant made possible the use of many old games,
songs and customs of early Pennsylvania days.
In the entire pageant there were thirteen songs,
eleven dances and twenty-nine games many of
which took only two or three minutes to perform.

The Tavern. The first scene was laid before a
tavern in 1794. Here townspeople danced and
children played games while awaiting the stage-
coach and mail. After the mail had been dis-
tributed a Conestoga wagon appeared, and there
were more games and songs and dances. George
Washington and Alexander Hamilton arrived and
were greeted with a minuet and “Yankee Doodle.”

Industry and Sociabili’ry. Following the tavern
scene, the early industries of felt hat making, the
production of charcoal for refining iron ore and
the work of blacksmiths were interpreted to the
audience. Booths were set up for hatmaking,
blacksmiths plied their trade while children watch—
ed and played games. The charcoal carts came in,
women bought hats, the Conestoga Wagon re-
turned to carry off stoves and iron ware, and as it
went the people sang “Hei Lee, Hei Lo.” Home
industries of spinning, sewing, mending, quilt-
making, corn husking, churning and others were

83

84 IVHEN THE FINALE IS A PAGEANT

shown throughout the second part of the scene.
“Spin, Spin, My Daughter” and “There is a Hole
in the Jug” were sung, and children played games
traditional to that part of the country. The scene
shifted to a wedding with emphasis on customs
of other times in song and dance. Older Sister
was even forced to dance in the pig trough and
the bride and groom entered over a broom—to
keep witches out, according to tradition.

The Reading Fair. The last scene showed one of
the early fairs with the setting up of booths, the
arrival of the crowd and the opening of the fair
with its puppet show, horse races, games, songs
and dances.

The King’s Court

Somewhat different. from the other pageants
was the “King’s Court,” a musical revue put on
last fall by the Artists Club of the St. Paul parks
and playgrounds as the finale of its year’s
activities.

The revue was based upon the attempt of
Elaine, beautiful daughter of King William, to
choose a lover from the many suitors who had
come to the palace from foreign countries. The
scene is laid on the day when the suitors are to
compete fOr Elaine through entertainment! The
court is in readiness, with the King’s favorite court
orchestra (the St. Paul Junior Symphony Orches-
tra), the court acrobats, waltz chorus, maids-in-
waiting and pages in attendance.

Since the club is made up of five hundred boys
and girls gifted in singing,
dancing and playing mu-

The ingenious setting which was provided for

sical instruments, there was much talent to be
drawn upon for Elaine’s entertainment. Suitors
and their retinues from America,’ Italy, Spain,
Ireland, Russia, Sweden and Austria brought her
gifts of song and dance, and the King in turn
entertained them by calling frequently upon his
orchestra (a featured part of the program), and
upon the court acrobats and waltz chorus.

Cinderella

The story of Cinderella lends itself readily to
pageant form, and a number of cities have used
it for a central theme.

Thirty playground children of Kenosha, \Nis-
consin, put it on as a closing event for the sum-
mer program. The traditional story was acted,
with Cinderella becoming Princess Charming. In
the Kenosha version, however, the story goes on,
for the Princess and Prince declare a great cele-
bration and invite all the provinces to participate.
Delegates arrive, welcomed by a fanfare of
trumpets and the roll of drums, and entertain the
royal couple. The‘acts are introduced by a nar-
rator. Children from eleven playgrounds took
part in games and dances. There were thirty pen-
guins in an act, a Tarantella dance, a Spanish skit
with horses, singing games, tumblers, creatures in
grotesque heads, clowns, Indians and parasol and
Maytime dances. At the conclusion all the char-
acters were massed on the stage, for each group
had stayed after its own performance to, watch the
others. After the last number the children paraded
off the stage, the fairy god-
mother and three fairies

the Cinderella pageant in Kenosha. Wisconsin

a a. a.

 

 

WHEN THE FINALE IS A PAGEANT 85

came forward to wish the
Prince and Princess a long and
prosperous, reign, and then ful
brought back the royal coach
in which Cinderella and her
prince rode away.

An unusual devise was used ly
to make sure that the voices
of actors could be heard. Of
the thirty characters only six had speaking parts,
but the outdoor theater and the movement neces-
sary for these characters made amplification a
problem. ' This was solved by choosing six dupli-
cate characters to speak for the actors. These six
were seated behind the stage at its center, shut
off from view of the audience by grill-like Vene-
tian blinds through which their voices came,
clearly amplified by a loud speaker system. The
grills made it possible for the duplicate characters
to watch the performers on and in front of the

stage.

closely the

Another Cinderella

Lansing, Michigan, provides a Cinderella pag-
eant which is acted out in pantOmime while a
reader tells the story.

Episode I shows a pantomime of the home
scene as the reader tells of the mistreatment of
Cinderella by her stepsisters and stepmother. As
the reader tells of the Prince, we see him ride past
with his huntsmen who pause to frolic. '(Hunts-
men Frolic——Record 20416-A Le Secret.) As the
sisters prepare for the ball and try to choose suit-
able dresses to wear, a parade of old-time cos-
tumes files across the stage. Finally the great day
arrives and the sisters prepare for the ball. (Van-
ity Dance to the Cuckoo Waltz.) Left alone,
Cinderella sits by the fire, unmindful of fairies
who come in and dance. She is startled when the
fairy godmother speaks. When she has gone to
the garden for a pumpkin, pumpkins enter and
dance. A coach appears and Cinderella drives off
to the ball.

Episode II is the ball. After the presentation of
the ladies to the royal family there is a flower
dance. Cinderella arrives and the Prince chooses
her as his partner for the minuet. Next comes a
fan dance, then a clock dance, at the end of which
Cinderella flee's, as she always must when the
clock strikes twelve”.

Episode III is laid in the market square where
the King’s pages are trying to find a foot to fit
the silver slipper. Sailors dance, children play

In other communities, Snow WhiteI
Sleeping Beauty' Alice in Wonder-
land and Aladdin and the Wonder-
Lamp have been successfully
adapted to pageant form, but space
does not permit of their inclusion
in this article. They follow fair-

types

games, fruit venders sing. Of
course, the slipper fits Cin-
derella, the fairy godmother
appears to clothe her in a lovely
gown and bring back the coach
in which Cinderella and the
Prince ride off, followed by
over three hundred children
bearing lighted lanterns which
they had made on the playgrounds. (Lights are
put out while the children parade across the stage.)

described.

Hansel and Gretel

Another fairy tale dear to all children which
lends itself to pageant form is “Hansel and
Gretel.” This, too, comes from Lansing.

The pageant opens with the children working
over their tasks—broommaking and knitting.
Neighbor children come in, dance “Brother Come
and Dance with Me” and run off as the mother
comes in. As the reader tells the story, the mother
sends the children to the woods. The father comes
home laden with good food, and the parents rush
out to find the children.

As you remember, the next scene is in the
woods. While the children pick strawberries, the
wild flowers dance. Gretel sings “A Tiny Little
Man.” Evening comes and fireflies dance. The
sandman dances and fourteen angels come to
guard the sleeping children.

The next morning birds dance about the chil-
dren; dew fairies dance in and shake dew over
the children, wakening them. They discover the
witch’s house which has appeared as they slept.
Fromsthere on, you know the story. Yes, the
witch is popped into the oven and the children
dance and sing. Suddenly the oven falls to bits,
the gingerbread children are released and dance,
and finally two of them pull a big gingerbread
cake from the oven—the witch!

The Pied Piper of Hamelin

Rats, cats, children and a piper. You have it—
the Pied Piper of Hamelin Town! It too, is a
favorite with pageant makers, yet see how dif-
ferently it has been developed in different places.

The Pied Piper came to Dayton, Ohio, last
year. Here a mother began “Once upon a time”
and before the eyes of her two children the story
unfolded, the story being carried by a reader after
the prologue of mother and children.

Episode I shows hundreds of rats zigzagging
across the stage. Lights come up, as the reader

86 ' ' WHEN THE FINALE IS A PA GEANT

continues, and the towns folk enter, moving toward
the'back’as the children gather in front and dance
“Bleking.” As the children finish, the rats come
in dragging cheeses, hats and carrots, and drive
off the men and women and children in spite of
their efforts to prevent it. The rats cavort and do
stunts. The reader tells more of the troubles with
the rats.

In the next scene the Burgomaster, Council
men and pages are talking it over. The townspeo—
ple come in and threaten a dire fate for the Bur—
gomaster if he does not rid their town of rats.
The Burgomaster calls for learned men, but they
can not help him, nor can an astrologer. At a
loss, the Burgomaster rises to speak, when the
Pied Piper enters and offers to rid the town of
rats. He leaves, starting to play.

The next scene shows the rats following the
piper, weaving back and forth across the stage
and off. Children and townspeople come cautiously
back on to the stage. While townsmen thank the
Burgomaster, children dance the “Children’s
Polka.” The piper returns, is refused his money
and pipes the children away, while the townsfolk
stretch out their arms.

In the third scene, we are shown the inside of
the mountain—“a joyous land where everything
was strange and new.” There is a throne for the
Queen of Fairies and Mother Goose.

The scene opens with a solo dance by the Fairy
Queen. Then the children are brought in and
seated, to be entertained by a group fairy dance.
They meet Mother Goose and the nursery rhyme
characters, the Three Little Kittens, Simple
Simon, Jack and Jill and many others—twenty-
one in all—who act out their parts, ending with
“Here We Go Around the Mulberry Bush” by all
of them.

In the last scene we come again to Hamelin
where there is grief and sorrow over the lost chil—
dren and anger against the Burgomaster. All at-
tempts to find the piper have failed. Then one
day the piper comes and agrees to bring the chil—

dren back. Ashe does, all sing “Come Let Us Be
onful.”

The Pied Piper in Cincinnati

The Pied Piper went to Cincinnati, Ohio, too,
a few years ago. Again a reader carried the story,

this time quoting from the poem briefly before
each number.

After a brief introduction about Hamelin and

the rats, the chorus sings page eight of the Alvin
Cantata.

The reader continues, “Rats! Rats! Rats!”
(The grey rats dance.) “They fought the dogs
and killed the cats” (tableau and cats’ dance),
“and bit the babies in the cradle” (tableau and
black rats’ dance), “and ate the cheeses out of the
vats” (tableau), “and licked the soups from the
cooks’ own ladles” (tableau and cooks’ dance),
“split open kegs of salted sprats, made nests in
Sunday hats” (tableau), “and spoiled the women’s
chats” (tableau).

The brown rats then sang “Three Blind Mice,”

and the Rat Chorus sang “Down in the Cellar”
( N o. 22 by Walter H. Aiken).

We go now to the council chamber (tableau),
and the reader continues as the piper enters and
makes his bargain with the Council. (A quartet
sings “Ahoy, Follow On”—Piper’s Song by Wal-
ter H. Aiken.) As he goes out the Council dances.
“Go,” cried the Mayor, “and get long poles, rake
out the nests and block up the holes.” (pole dance

“ ——“Beansetting.”) The piper demands his fee and

is refused. The piper then pipes the children to
him. Children do a Hansel and Gretel dance,
tumbling stunts, Needle’s Eye, Looby Loo, a
Dutch dance and sing “Merrily We Go” by Wal—

ter H. Aiken, and then follow the piper into the
mountain. ‘

Episode II takes place in the mountain and the
reader’s Verses are original. It’s a fairyland and
the children dance and skip about, tasting candy
sticks on trees. The peppermint sticks dance, the
chocolate soldiers drill, “Gulphins” with hUge
heads dance, and animals parade. There are spe-
cial dances by yellow chicks and “bugs, bees and
bats.” Then come the moonbeams and then fair—
ies and flowers and elves, each group dancing in
turn. The Sandman comes and puts all to sleep
and the reader tells the moral of the tale: “If we
have promised aught, let us keep our promise.”

Rip Van Winkle

Rip Van Winkle was adapted to a pageant in
Louisville, Kentucky. The first scene is in Cats-
kill Village on market day and includes dances by
children, milk maids and sailors, and ends with
thunder and a dance of the tenpins. The next
episode shows Rip in the mountains where he
serves the lost sailors, then goes to sleep, while
dream fairies, various spirits abroad in the forest,

(Continued on flage 112)

Returbishing the Playground Program

ow THAT the frost is
N out of the concrete
and the playground
administrator is calling in
the mason, the carpenter
and the painter to furbish
up equipment, it’s none too
soon to be giving the old
program ideas a new, smart
coat of paint, too!

Why not brighten the
playground routine by try-
ing out some of the follow-
ing activities which may be new to you but which
have served to enliven the playgrounds of a num-
ber of cities?

A Model House Building Contest

A playground contest to interest a whole county
in housing and building-craft was the model house
building contest held under the auspices of the
Recreation Department of Grand Rapids, Michi—
gan, in cooperation with the Grand Rapids Press.
' The contest, for which both children and adults
were eligible, was open to three groups: I. Chil-
dren up to twelve years of
age who might construct
models of cardboard; 2.
Children from twelve to

Each year. in one of the spring numbers
of Recreation, we bring together notes
about some of the activities conducted
during the preceding summer on the play-
grounds of the countryI in the hope that
the information presented about programs
in other cities may suggest new ideas to
you and bring fresh interest to the pro-
gram you are planning for your city. We
suggest that a perusal of the World at
Play notes in the last twelve issues of
Recreation will disclose a number of ad-
ditional suggestions which may be of help.

It will not be long now before the proud
owners of dolls, dogs and diverse posses-
sions will be exhibiting them in playground

sixteen years using standard
building materials and
Working on the playground;
3. Anyone in Kent County
sixteen years of age or
more working with stand-
ard building materials.

To aid contestants the
city recreation staff had a
miniature house for demon—
stration purposes. Especial—
ly interesting were the

~ grounds of this house equip-
ped for recreation with a slide, see—saw, basket-
ball goal and Dutch oven. The driveway was de-
signed to serve also as a scooter track and shuffie-
board court.

These Trees Won’t Lose Their Labels!

A novel and practical twist was given a nature
program for children of the Essex County, New
Jersey, park playgrounds. After identifying cer-
tain trees the children were given tree labels and
allowed to place them. The Park Commission
says cannily that the labels thus placed will be
more likely to remain be-
cause the children them-
selves have shared in the
project.

shows. parades and contests of many kinds.

‘0 edit
3" b - £2“
9

- a  . 5“ " $5"  -'-* ““
K "A   c“ 4": ' ’ 11-9-59 ' -':-"   ‘4 I  i '

s
. I {
?r‘sa 9' 

Courtesy Bureau of Recreation, Dayton, Ohio

 

88 REFURBISHING THE PLAYGROUND PROGRAM

. .
4.: M. v '4 kizw-mgét-‘S-lmagx - -

Courtesy Steubem'ille, Ohio, Department of Parks and Recreation

.1

The Commission is responsible for another
clever idea in the department of nature study.
Each playground was supplied with a set of four-
teen wood samples, sections of trees secured from
the pruning gangs. The sections were sawed so
as to Show not only the rings but the heart wood
and bark, vertically and horizontally. Sandpa-
pered, shellacked and waxed they made attractive
displays in the nature corners of playgrounds.

Where Politics Are Hot

“Slumkey forever!” was the first shout heard
by the Pickwickians on entering the little town of
Eatansx’vill where politics were rife. “Islandcrats
forever!” is the cry you would have most likely
heard last summer if you had visited a play-
ground on Squire Island, a part of the Union
_County Park system of New Jersey.

Children of this playground have organized into
a democratic state. Elections contested by the
two parties, the Islandcrats and Islanders, are
lively affairs with rallies, campaign speeches and
parades. Last year the Islandcrats won the mayo-
ralty while the council was split half—and-half,
showing that the voters care not a fig for the
party but for the man. His Honor, the Mayor,
appointed a Courtesy Patrol consisting of a Chief,
Court Clerk and eleven Patrolmen. Rules for the
use of the ground and its facilities were made up
and laws posted. Offenders were given warnings
and, if they did not heed, the patrolmen gave them
tickets to appear in court for trial.

 

Have you a box hockey outfit for the
boys of your play center? It's easy
to make and you'll find it an inval-
uable addition to your equipment.

“Hail, Alma Mater Playground!”

Many a citizen of Springfield, Illinois, was
made aware of the city’s twenty-one playgrounds
when a spirited playground song contest came to
him over his radio—right between two sections of
a double-header ball game!

Songs were written to music of popular or
standard songs. The playgrounds sent their en—
tries to the contest to the Playground Commis-
sion for inspection and acceptance. With the co-
operation of a local radio station, the Commission
arranged to broadcast the songs for popular ap-
proval. An elimination contest was held, the vot-
ing being done by telephone within an hour after
each program had started. Parents invited friends
in and after the contest telephoned their votes, en
masse. Fifteen hundred votes were received, and
the contest, besides bringing the playgrounds be-
fore the public in a big way, resulted 'in some
clever songs.

On the public playgrounds of Detroit a regular
daily period was allotted for singing. A number
of songs were taught for
use in the children’s pag-
eant, and a special choral
group of a hundred boys
and girls added
their voices to
those of the girls _
taking part in'
the dances and
games.

Making Parents

“Playground
Minded”

Parent councils
of interested
m o t h e r s a n d
fathers living
near playgrounds
were organized
last summer by
the Department

of Public Rec-

 

ln angling for the
these youthful lzaa
taking advantage i
have of tishing \

Courtesy Bureau of Parks, Department of Public

REFURBISHING THE PLAYGROUND PROGRAM 89

Everywherel in the approaching play-
, ground season. many thousands of little
children will find in sandcraff perhaps
their mosf pleasurable form of play.

reation, Danville, Illinois. To promote sociability
among the parents, one large joint picnic and
stunt night was arranged by the playground di-
rectors of all the grounds.

Four city-wide events presented by the Recre-
ation Division of the Oklahoma City Park Depart-
ment were designed to interest parents and adults.
These were arranged in addition to the regular
community night programs held at each of the
parks during the week. They were:

I. A dance festival, featuring folk and modern
dances. This was the opening feature.

2. Amateur contest. 500 amateurs competed in
almost every conceivable form of entertainment.
Each park held a preliminary contest. First and
second place winners were entered in the city-
wide event. _

3. Joint stunt night, each park furnishing one
feature.

4. Tournament for fine arts students. This was
so popular that it is planned to emphasize this pro-
gram this summer instead of the amateur contest.

 

Courtesy S teubenville, Ohio, Department of Park: and Recreation

Boys and girls under sixteen years of age were
registered as junior sportsmen and were given
membership cards and buttons. Approximately
3,500 young sportsmen were registered, and so
popular was the sport that it soon became difficult
to find enough fishing space around the lake.
Each child was limited to a catch of five fish
and quickly grasped the idea of sportsmanship in-
volved in this provision and others which were
necessary. A park guard and a representative of

,f five fish apieceI Everybody Happy but the Pennsylvania Sportsmen’s Luncheon Club
5 of Pittsburgh are the Fish! were in attendance to keep order and register the
Isual privilege ’rl‘ley That good fish can be fishermen, but the problem of discipline was taken

aaving city limits.

 

'ttsbu rgh, Pa.

caught with
broom handles
for poles and
pins for hooks
was demonstrat-
ed last summer
by children of
Pittsburgh at
Panther Hollow
Lake in Schen-
ley Park. On
Mondays and
Saturdays the
lake is turned
over to the
young Izaak
Waltons who
fish to their
hearts’ content.

care of by the children themselves.

The State Game Commission stocked the lake
with’catfish, carp, perch and some sunfish. The
project was financed by the local Sportsmen’s
Luncheon Club and by individual contributors
who in their boyhood days knew the fun of
fishing.

Bushels of Beetles

A price of ten cents a pint for Japanese beetles
was offered children of the playgrounds of Har-
risburg, Pennsylvania, and a day set, July I7, for
the “Battle of the Beetles.” As a result some 550
boys and girls collected $75 in return for almost
twelve bushels of these devastating insects. On a
subsequent day, eleven more bushels were col-
lected. The City Landscape expert stated that he
could not have destroyed half that number of
beetles for the same money by using poison spray.

90 REFURBISHING THE PLAYGROUND PROGRAM

They Made Tom-toms and Tambourines

To learn to play a tom—tom, flute or tambourine
which he has made and decorated himself is a de—
lightful experience for a playground child. This
approach to music appreciation was made possible
in Lexington, Massachusetts, according to Miss
Rose Cunningham of the Park Department, by

. / . . o
the cooperation of manufacturers of mus1cal 1n—

struments who furnished excellent materials at

low cost, which
was supplied to
the children
without charge.
Work was done
at a long table
under shade
trees, near a
supplies store-
room. A fence
provided a con-
venient place to
hang the tom-
toms to dry.
The tom—tom
h e a d s w e r e
made of a pat-
ented composi-
tion requiring
wetting in the
same way as
s k i n h e a d 5.
Designs for
decoration were
drawn on pa-
per before be—
ing transferred.
The instru-
ments made in-
cluded : tom-
toms, tambou-
rines, snare—drums, sing—bells, pipes of Pan, shep-
herd’s pipes, transverse flutes, and simple stringed
instruments. One—tone strings mounted on a wood
back provided experience in stringing and tun-
ing. Four strings were mounted on one back for
the bugle tones and a one—string chromatic guitar.

Each group was given bi-weekly lessons by a
special teacher assisted by two workers of the
regular staff. Later in the season, much more
time was devoted to developing ability to use the
instruments than to their construction. This proj—
ect encouraged originality, team work, and rhyth—
mic expression in dance and pantomime accom—

Wide World Photos, Inc.

 

panied by the instruments. Interest was reported
equally keen in both boys and girls, and in the

. younger and older groups.

Everybody Came to the Circus

The circus, high-spot of many a summer play-
ground program, sometimes grows to become a
real community affair, as witness last August’s
circus of Caspian, Michigan. Over 3,000 persons
t u r n e d o u t,
thronging the
streets for the
parade and
packing in at
the playground.
Acts in the cir—
cus included a
band program,
clowns, ponies,
minstrel show
and an animal
wedding of Mr.
Bear and Miss
Lion. Children
impersonated
all of the ani-
mals, including
monkeys, ele-
phant, giraffe
and ponies.
Prizes in the
parade were
given in the
f 0 1 l o w i n g
classes: comic,
wagons, bug-
gies, bicycles,
character a n (1
historical cos-
t u m e s, a n (1
group entries. All of the properties and costum-
ing were made in the summer community house.
71‘ he entertainment was free and depended on only
$25 for funds.

And in Detroit a circus scheduled for the close
of the playground season provided a new activity
for the handcraft program. A miniature circus
wagon carrying a driver and pulled by one or
more teams of horses was made on each play-
ground by boys in the Woodcraft classes. A sam-
ple design and the Specifications were furnished,
but the rest was left to the ingenuity of the boys.
Some excellent models were made and much

REFURBISHING TUE I’L‘IYGROUND PROGRAM 9]

A..._T.__

_ £9”?me    +

A

Courtesy National Park Service

Showing +he Rambling Theater closed
and on its way to a Washingion park

originality was shown in the decorations. This
activity was promoted by the Recreation Depart—
ment to help arouse interest in the coming circus
and to tie up the preparation for the circus with
other playground activities.

A Traveling Troupe
When you take a group of seemingly incorrigi—

 

'%.,

ble youngsters and make them very proud ot
themselves—the results are often extremely grati-
fying. This was the experience reported concern—
ing the Lytle Playground in Cincinnati, Ohio, by
the Public Recreation Commission. This play-
ground and its surrounding community used to be
regarded as highly disorganized with a penchant
for destruction of property. The creation of a

The Theater. open and in operai'ion.
delighis ii's audience of children

 

Courtesy National Park Service

92 REFURBISHING THE PLAYGROUND PROGRAM

traveling circus troupe is one of the measures
taken by the Commission, c00perating with dif-
ferent neighborhood agencies to change the whole
picture. Boys and girls began to act as responsi-
ble members of the community. The troupe was a
source of justihable pride to the children, since it
was in demand for entertainments on other play-
grounds. It included: tumblers, Siamese twins,
clowns, a bearded lady, a fat boy, a dragon six—
teen feet long, two bears in a cage and other ani-
mals which were added from week to week.

Softball and Sociability

Cincinnati’s Public Recreation Commission says
nothing promotes sociability among girls and
women like softball. Softball—plus plenty rof
picnics. Not only does each team have its picnic,
but the members of all the teams of a particular
league have a picnic. At such a picnic, the first
held last summer, the Northside League mustered

sixty-five girls.

Traveling Theaters

A number of park departments, recreation com-
missions and similar groups
have found a fresh interest
in their drama programs
when their theaters have
gone traveling.

The Rambling Theater,
which was built in 1935, for
the past three years has been
in use in the park system of
Washington, D.
C., during the
summer months.
It is a theater on
wheels, the plays
and entertain-
m e n.t s b e in g
given in the aft-
ernoons by chil-
dren. These per-
formances are,
however, attend-
ed by almost as
many adults as
youngsters.

I n I 9 3 5 . a
three—ton ~foilr
wheel drive truck
was obtained
from the sur-

"There is. fortunately, one playground
activity which involves no equipment."
writes William F. Newleirle of Cambridge.
Massachusetts' who gives us some inter-
esting suggestions for developing this
activity. which turns out to be hiking.
The photograph shows a group of six
Cambridge boys who hiked to the Bos-
ton Airport iust across the river. which
none of the boys had ever before seen.

 

Photo by William F. Newkz'rk, Cambridge, Mass.

plus material list of the Quartermaster Corps b)
transfer from the United States Army to the Of-
fice of National Capital Parks. The box bod)
was removed from the chassis and a platforrr
body 18’ long x 8’ wide constructed. Two hingec'
sides 18’ x 5’ and a hinged tail gate 8’ X 5’~ were
attached to this platform which, when opened
made a stage 18’ x 23’ long. The sides Werecov-
ered by a light tin on which the signs were paint-
ed, the entire painting being of bright colors,
mostly reds and yellows, resembling an old-time
circus wagon. A few simple properties such as
stools, chairs, benches and tables were built; flats
were provided to take the place of back drops and
scenery. Music by electrical transcription and am-
plihcation was furnished. It was found, however,
that the microphone picked up too much extran-
eous sound and the amplification was discontinued,
only the music being retained.

The entertainment part of the program was su-
pervised by the Community Center Department
of the District of Columbia. The parks where
entertainments were to be given were selected by
the Office of National Capital Parks which also
maintained and operated the
theater. The players were
picked up by the truck at a
designated time and place
and taken to the park where
the performance was to be
given. On arrival at the park
the chauffeur, stage director
and park employees set up
t h e s t a g e—a
process requir—
ing about twen—
ty minutes. The
plays were usu-
ally of one hour
duration. At the
conclusion of the
performance,
the stage was
folded—this re-
quired approxi-
mately twenty
minutes -— and
the truck driven
back. to the ga-
rage.

The average

(Continued on
page 112)

The Summer in York

"C’MON SMITTY, the play-

grounds are open,”
cried one lad on June
I 5 last summer in York, Penn-
sylvania. And “sure enough,”
all ten were open, open for an
unusually long season of ex-

Last summer proved an exciting and
happy time for the children at York.
Pennsylvania. a city with a popula-
tion of approximately 55,000. For
many years the community has con-
ducted playgrounds| and since I920
the work has been on a year-round
basis. Miss Sylvia Weckesser is
the superintendent of recreation.

and painting the Ford. The
curtain—a gay, quilted one——
was made by the Academy
Youth Center Quilting Club.
The City Council gave per-
mission for the use of the
theater 0n the playgrounds.

citing events under the guid-
ance of the Recreation Com-
mission, the superintendent of recreation, the su-
pervisors of girls’ and women’s activities and
playgrounds, of handcrafts, of dramatics and clubs
for adolescents, of men’s athletics and of twenty-
two playground directors.

A Theater Trailer

One of the most exciting “happenings” was the
conversion of an old run-down Ford into a trailer

theater. N.Y.A. boys as-
sisted in reconstructing

A traveling theaterl ingeniously constructed
at a cost of only $52.l8. delighted thousands

Eighty-two performances took
place in this children’s theater
with all-child casts, and a delighted audience of
over 8,000 for the season saw the plays.

Pushmobiles and Parades

Another first-time event was a city—Wide push-
mobile contest sponsored by the Recreation Com-
mission and the Old Timers’ Athletic Association.
Any child could enter providing he was under 16
years of age, had built his car from waste ma-
terials for $1.50 or less,
had used no wheel (steer-

 

93

94 THE SUMMER IN YORK

ing wheel excepted) over 12 inches in diameter,
had had no artificial weighting, had used wood
for the body (axles, wheels and steering gear ex-
cepted) and had had his car inspected and regis—
tered on one of the playgrounds before the races.
Ninety young automobile manufacturers entered
_their 1937 models in the contest and twenty-seven
races were run off before the fastest car could be
selected. Races were run in heats—four cars to a
heat, with winners of each heat competing until
the finals were reached. Awards went not only to
the owners of the three fastest cars, but to the
three showing best design and workmanship and
to the makers of the most‘ unusual and the most

comical models.
A “March of Time Mardi-Gras Parade” pre-

ceded the pushmobile contest, ending at the
“speedway.” Nearly a thousand children took
part, each playground represented a different sub-
ject. There were comic strip characters, a beauty
_show, “Hollywood Stars of Today and Tomor—
row,” circus animals and decorated floats repre-
senting the origin of dancing, frontier days,“Bring
’em Back Alive,” and story hours. The parade
was headed by the playground band which was
followed by the Recreation Commissioners and
representatives of the Old Timers’ Association
(the sponsors of the day’s events) and the chil-
dren in gala attire. '

The Sulky Sultan

The Sulky Sultan is a large eight-foot wooden
potentate who smokes away at a water pipe, rolls
his eyes and glares. About him was woven a
pageant, bearing his name, and put on by 300
children from the playgrounds. They entertained
the sultan in an attempt to make him smile so that
his very lovely daughter (so the story goes) could
marry a really light-hearted prince: As entertain-
ment a bull fight was staged, Russian and Japa-
nese dances and drills were performed and peas-
ants and rag dolls danced. In the end, by some
mysterious and wonderful device, the Sulky Sul-
tan smiled and of course “they all lived happily
ever after.” The pageant was the second annual
playground event of its kind in York.

A Band is Started

Still another new event was the formation of a
playground band of forty members under the di-
rection of a high school band leader. A student
leader and two librarians were appointed and the
band soon got under way. But there was no drum

major for a time as a local newspaper revealed in
its columns: “Wanted: A young man (or a
woman might do) under the age of 16; must be
tall, good-looking and able to twirl a baton. Apply
at the next rehearsal of the Playground Band in
the Academy Youth Center . P. S. The band

will accept additional members, too.”

 

Directors’ Week

While a very general outline of activities was
provided for all the playgrounds with certain
events such as contests, play days and pageants
scheduled on particular dates, one week was set
aside as “Directors’ Week” during which play-
ground directors planned their own programs,
winding them up in a special event of their own
choosing. Several playgrounds topped off this
week with amateur or variety programs and there
were baby shows, a water carnival, an Old Clothes
Night, a stilt party, and community music put on
by other grounds.

With Banners

The- quality of the program” for Directors’
W eek, as well as other weeks, was measured in
points given for care of ground, clubs, safety and
special events. The two high-point winners each
week were rewarded with banners, the high-point
winners for the entire season being allowed to
keep their banners permanently as well-deserved
and hard—earned trophies.

Snake Dances and All

A snake'dance of 200 children, track and field
events, five volley ball games, a number of circle
games and relays comprised the “piece de resist-
ance” of the demonstration of organized play by
all the playgrounds. Twenty children from each
playground lined up for the opening parade
around the field. Two boys saluted each march-
ing unit with trumpets as it passed the band stand.
After the grand finale—the snake dance with all
participants—Bobo, the clown, gave each child a
lollypOp (donated by a candy company) as he or
she left the field. A number of lucky boys and -
girls found theater tickets (given by a local thea-
ter) wrapped up with the candy.

Here and There in York

The events described so far were not the only
exciting and important ones on the program.
There is time for only a quick glimpse of others

THE SUMMER IN YORK 95

which contributed to making this summer differ-
ent and happier for York’s children.

The all-too-often neglected “teen age" had
special attention. The dramatics supervisor had
charge of organizing clubs for adolescents—boys
and girls over sixteen. These clubs were formed
on the playground and a program of games, par-
ties and dances was planned. The clubs are to be
continued in the winter, using the Academy Youth
Center as headquarters.

A gypsy story-teller in costume made the
rounds of the playgrounds to tell stories to eager
child listeners. Not so long ago this gypsy was
herself in the story-telling audience, for she was
once one of York’s playground children; in fact,
at eleven years of age she was the ringmaster of
aris year. All Safety Club members were invited.

Safety clubs were formed with certificates at
the summer’s end for faithful and intelligent help
in promoting safe play on the playgrounds. Chil-
dren earning certificates last year received stars
this year. All Safety Club Members were invited
to a party at the end of the summer.

Street sprays were installed and twice a week
in four places children enjoyed showers when the
temperature reached 85 or above.

Babies figured prominently in the program for
there were several baby shows with prizes for the
baby—with curliest hair, with bluest or brownest
eyes, smallest for its age, youngest two months
ago, with most hair, most active, friendliest,
cleverest, most appealing, with-widest eyes, with
red hair and so on.

Model boat races, city—wide Jacks, O’Leary and
“Pop It” tournaments, doll and pet shows, a pic—
nic day on which all leaders planned excursions
for their children to the country or to a swim-
ming pool added to the list of red—letter days.
The York Little Theater presented its first out-
door full-length production, giving Rostand’s
“The Romancers” for the benefit of the children
of the community. The Little Theater group gave
its services so that funds might be raised to buy
equipment needed at the play centers.

A Basic Program Outlined

The playground directors were encouraged to
arrange original events throughout the summer.
To assist the directors in maintaining an active
program the Recreation Department outlined a
regular program which could be changed for
special events. The program follows:

9 :30—10 A. M. Flag raising, distribution of equip—
ment and organization of groups for morning
play.

Io-Ioz45 A. M. For children under 8, group
and singing games and apparatus play; for chil—
dren between 8 and II, organized games and ap-
paratus play; for boys and girls over I I, informal
team and group games.

IO:45—I[ A. M. No special activities scheduled,
but there will be free play on the grounds.

11-11 :30 A. M. For children under 8, sandbox
play, block building and story—telling ; for children
between 8 and II, handcrafts, nature activities.
quiet games, badge tests and stunts; for boys and
girls over 11, handcrafts, nature activities, quiet
games, badge tests, stunts and midget mushball.

I I :30-noon. N 0 special activities scheduled.
(The playgrounds are closed from noon to I
P. M.)

1-2 P. M. For children under 8, story-telling and
story acting; for children between 8 and I I, group
games, music and apparatus play; for boys and
girls over 11, musical activities, informal group
games and athletic events.

2-4 P. M. For children under 8, apparatus plav,
singing games and special events; for children be-
tween 8 and II, contests, tournaments, special
features and handcrafts; for boys and girls over
11, league games in volley ball (girls) and mush-
ball (boys) special features, outings, tournaments
and contests.

4-5 P. M. For children under 8, quiet games and
sandbox play; for children between 8 and I I,
story-telling, dramatics, folk dancing, quiet games
and meetings of clubs or committees; for boys
and girls over II, story-telling, dramatics, folk
dancing and meetings of clubs or committees.

5-6 P. M. N o scheduled activities, but play-
grounds remain open for use of young people and
adults.

6 P. M.-dark. For children, apparatus play, self-
organized games and watching special events; for
young people and adults, informal team games,twi-
light leagues and special neighborhood programs.

“Past experience has fully demonstrated the
close interrelation of recreational activities and
many of our present-day problems. Juvenile de-
linquency many times originates in the thwarted
play life of children. The value of properly di-
rected play in building good character is widely
recognized.”—fesse F. Steiner.

When Reading Went Dutch!

"Green gravel. green gravel. the grass is so green.
And all the tree maidens are shamed to be seen.

Oh Elsie. Oh Elsie. your true love with him
He sent you a letter to turn back your head."

ND DID THE children love to sing these old folk
songs? The answer is obvious.

During the summer of 1937 Reading used
“Pennsylvania Folk Lore” as a theme to motivate
the playground program: Doll and pet shows
were forgotten for one season. Hop scotch and
jackstone tournaments were abandoned tempo-
rarily and instead the songs, crafts, games, dances
and stories of early Pennsylvania pioneers were
substituted. Pennsylvania, and more particularly
Reading and Berks County, are rich in folk lore,
and yet so few children and adults know about the
culture of the early Pennsylvania German set-
tlers. (“Pennsylvania Dutch” is a misnomer.)

In L. P. Jacks’ book Education Through Recre-
ation, a statement occurs to this effect: “The edu-
cation which is not also recreation is a maimed,
incomplete, half-done thing. The recreation which
is not also education has no re-creative value. To
see education and recreation in their theoretical
unity does not carry us very far. What the world
needs today is their union in practice.” The theme
“Pennsylvania Folk Lore” ‘was education through
recreation in practice.

Preparing for the Program

One hundred twenty-five playground leaders,
WPA recreation workers, representing twenty-
eight municipal and thirty-three county play-
grounds, were trained intensively for a period of
two weeks, from 9 :00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. daily, in
square dances, quadrilles, the Virginia reel. They
were given bibliographies of stories—the books
had been reserved for their use in the public 1i-
brary—and they were taught Pennsylvania Ger-
man games which were derivatives of the occupa-

tions of farmers living in the early 18th century,
such as “Brode bocka” (baking bread), “Dersha
rubba” (picking cherries),
and “Noch der meal gae”
(going to the mill). They
received practical instruc-
tion in the methods of using

96

By THOMAS W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
City of Reading. Pennsylvania

motifs of an art-loving people and actually learn—
ing how to make corner shelves, what-nots, patch
quilts and wall pictures. And they rehearsed folk
songs, which were discovered in the back country
and recorded on a V ictrola record to be preserved
forever, such as “We’ll Swim Across the
Schuylkill.”

At the institute, the popular and ever useful
activities such as safety programs, softball and
volleyball, paddle tennis and other familiar ones
were not neglected.

“Old Settlers’ Day”

During the course of the summer season a num-
ber of special events with a folk lore title were
used in addition to the daily folk dances, crafts,
songs and games. For example, an “Old Settlers’
Day” was appropriate to honor those who are
greatly responsible for what we have and are to
day. In accord with this idea a number of sug-
gestions were made to the playground leaders.
The invitations to the old folks in the neighbor-
hood were in the form of a Conestoga wagon de-
sign written on old calico. Everybody invited was
asked to dress as an Indian, a pioneer, or in a
Colonial costume. The children, too, came in cos-
tume. Needless to say, black moustaches made of
light-weight cardboard, Indian war bonnets and
patch quilt “shawls” were predominant. The
program for the afternoon consisted of old favor-
ite songs, stories by one or two of the old settlers
in the neighborhood, and stunts such as bobbing
for apples, broom stick pull, Indian wrestle, spin
the platter. " At one playground an old zither
player entertained the crowd. At another, the
mothers presented a square dance which the
leader had taught them. Two old fiddlers screech-

ed away, much to the amusement of the children,
(Continued on page 114)

Have you ever explored the folk lore of your locality?
A little research may yield rich returns for your program

Enlarging the Arts and Crafts Program

HE GIRL SCOUTS have just presented to their

members the framework of an enlarged pro-

gram in the arts and crafts, a‘program plan-
ned to bring the creative arts into the daily life
of the average American girl. AdOpted on a na-
tion-wide scale, adapted to the needs of a mem-
bership which now numbers almost half a million,
this program maybe an important step in produc-
ing a body of citizens who have learned to know
and respect the unchanging principles of crafts-
manship, finding joy in working with their hands,
demanding good workmanship and sound design
in the articles they buy.

The editor’ of RECREATION has pointed out that
“no recreation worker, seeking to give men and
women everywhere the makings of an abundant
life, . . . . can ignore what cravings lie deep inside
men that will find satisfaction only in activity of
the hands.” a , '

The Girl Scouts agree. The revised arts and
crafts program is based on the belief that every
girl has creative ability and that this ability grows
with use. Puritan tradition, the more or less for-
mal presentation of art in the schools, the con-
stant invitation of canned entertainment, all these
have combined to push creative effort into the
background. But the arts and crafts have never
ceased to be important. In a mechanized civiliza-
tion they become increasingly important. Boys
and girls, men and women, living too fast, threat-
ened with nervous disorders, must find some out-
lets for their energies, outlets that bring peace
and satisfaction. - The Girl Scouts are endeavor-
ing to meet this need by offering creative activi-
ties which weave naturally and easily into daily
living. '

Objectives

In planning activities for the girls from seven
to eighteen, no attempt has been made to separate
the arts from the crafts. Craft is dexterity and
skill in manual employment. Art is the expres-
sion of an idea in fOrm, color, sound or move-
ment. But every art is dependent upon the craft
that gives it excellence. Skill with the hands may
eventually bring ability to express a wide range
of ideas. The potter may acquire such skill in
modeling that he can produce sculpture as well as
pottery. The design for a tapestry may be a form

By CHESTER G. MARSH

Arts and Crafts Adviser
Girl Scouts, Inc.

 

The Girl Scout leaders have been revising
their program, including. of course. their
arts and crafts requirements. Because of the
important place arts and crafts are assum-
ing in the municipal recreation program, we
have asked the Girl Scouts to share with
recreation workers the obiectives which they
have set up. some of the methods to be em-
ployed, and the values which they are hoping
will accrue from the more creative and
democratic plan proposed in the revision.

of art although the skill of the needlewoman is
rated among the crafts. The program, therefore,
includes drawing and painting, sculpture, prints,
design, pottery, weaving, metal work, leather
work, wood work, basketry, needlecraft, color-
craft, bookbinding, glass work, photography, in—
terior decoration, architecture, on equal terms.

Each field is recognized as a point of departure
from which a girl may develop in many ways. In
general, activities are planned to attain five ob-
jectives: the girl is given an opportunity to exer-
cise her creative ability; she gains practice in
needed skills; she is brought to understand and
appreciate the work of others in her chosen field;
she is shown what lasting interests may grow out
of what she does; and she is encouraged to make
her arts and crafts an integral part of all she does
in Girl Scouting or in life.

For example, to earn recognition in drawing
and painting, the Girl Scout is asked to choose
four of six creative activities and carry them
through. She may draw or paint a landscape or a
single object in that landscape. She may use the
human figure, animals, flowers or other still life
as her models. She may do a picture indicating a
mood or an emotion. She may portray action,
tension or lack of motion. Or she may illustrate
a poem or story (preferably her own) with at

97

98 ENLARGING THE ARTS AND CRAFTS PROGRAM

least two drawings or paint-
ings.

A Choice of Skills Offered

So far, only the more
creative activities have been
touched upon. She is given
a choice of many skills also.
She may arrange flowers or
objects for a still—life com-

"ln launching the revised program. atten-
tion is again called to the fact that the
development of desirable attitudes is our
real goal. Attitudes and appreciations
remain with us long after information and
skills fade. To us as leaders this means
several things. lt_ means that interest
and enthusiasm. which are highly conta-
gious, are frequently more important to us
as leaders than the amount of information
we may have or the degree of our skills.ll

From The Girl Scout Leader, April I938.

Using this type of ap-
proach in all the helds of
the arts and crafts, the Girl
Scouts are endeavoring to
make sure that each girl
shall have an opportunity
to realize how simply and
naturally creative expres—
sion may increase not only
her enjoyment of life but

position. She may learn how

to select and use painting

materials such as paper, canvas, stretchers, easels.
brushes, palettes, finders, pastes, paints and fixa—
tives. She may demonstrate her’ability to stretch
canvas for an oil painting, prepare paper for a
water color, set a palette for oil colors, clean
brushes, arrange a sketch box, “fix” a charcoal or
pencil drawing, select, make, or refinish a frame.

To increase her appreciation of the work of
others she is asked to find out something about
any painters who may live in her community and
become familiar with their work. She may visit
galleries or private homes which contain notable
pictures or collections. She may learn something
of the history of American art and the scope of
contemporary art, concentrating her investigations,
if she wishes, on one outstanding American
painter in any field.

To show her the possibilities for lasting inter-
ests and enjoyment in What she has undertaken,
she is urged to find out what facilities for ‘art
studies may be available in schools, art centers,
museums, churches, organizations or private
studios. She may begin a collection of good re-
productions or start a sketchbook or keep a note-
book about pictures seen, artists met and inter-
esting places visited.

In all that has been suggested, drawing and
painting are shown to be an integral part of the
life about her. Each girl, however, is given fur-
ther opportunity to discover
the constant value of her

her efficiency in living.

In covering the wide age
range from seven to eighteen years, the Girl Scout
program is necessarily adapted to suit the needs
of the girls. The Brownies, who are the younger
Girl Scouts from seven to ten years old, {ind fun
in modeling simple trays and dishes or in making
a simple stencil design based on the shape of the
flower that grows in the window box of their
meeting place. Girl Scouts (from ten to four—
teen years old) and Senior Girl Scouts (from
fourteen to eighteen years old) carry on the types
of activities that have been already described,
developing them more fully, finding maturer ex—
pression of their talents as they grow older. To
make the appreciation of art progressive, sug-
gested activities for Brownies include a recogni-
tion of the artist in her own community, for the
Girl Scout an interest in the art of America, and
for the older girls the art of the world.

The Creed—Originality

In one thing there is no variation, however.
The ethics of the craftsman and the creative
artist are part of the whole Girl Scout arts and
crafts program. For the youngest Brownie and
the most mature Senior Girl Scout the creed is
the same: “All work shall be original. We will do
no copying or tracing of pictures or designs. All
work shall be made of real materials used hon— ,

estly. we will not try to make paper look like ,
reed, nor cloth resemble ’.

leather. All work shall be

work in everyday living.
She is urged to use her
drawings in her Girl Scout
nature study, reproducing
the birds, trees, shells 'or
Howers she sees. Or she
may make sketches for thea-
ter scenery, pictures for

posters or place cards or
parties.

"What we are concerned with isI of course.
education. Education means so many things
to many people. Very frequently it is con-
sidered iust a synonym for information.
Necessary as information is. however' it is
only one part- of education. Skills are an-
other part. More important than either
are attitudes and appreciationsl because
they influence the part that information
and skills play in our lives and because they
form the essence of human character."

From The Girl Scout Leader, April I938.

honestly and entirely our
own. We will not use as—
sembled or cut-out projects
that are partly worked out.”

When Brownie makes
her stencil design she, cre—'
ates it herself ; she does not
copy some ready-made pic—
ture in a book. When the
Girl Scout selects a land-

ENLARGING THE ARTS AND CRAFTS PROGRAM 99

scape to reproduce, she selects a real landscape,
not a painted one. When the Senior Girl Scout
designs the scenery for her dramatic workshop
play, her design is all her own, based on the needs
of her presentation and the possibilities of the
stage with which she must work.

Such practical ethics, growing out of happy ac-
tivities, are very concrete interpretations of the
ethics of the whole recreational program of the
Girl Scouts. They provide a clear and easily un—
derstood standard of values, one which is mean-
ingful to big girls and little girls alike. They pro—
vide, too, a spur to individual initiative combined
with many opportunities for group participation.

Satisfactions Discovered

These ethics form a code which is easy to re-
member. The girl who has learned to know and
appreciate honest workmanship, who can work
with her hands and respects the work of others,
will understand a good deal more about the con-
struction of her home and its furniture, will de—
mand harmony of line and sturdiness as well. A
large part of the program aims to encourage girls
to become intelligent consumers,
giving them practice in choosing
the best materials, giving them
standards by which their own and
others’ work may be judged.

A girl discovers for herself what
satisfaction and new resources for
everyday living may be found in
the creation of beauty. When she
accepts the need for beauty and
creative activities for herself, she
accepts them for others also. She
sees that it is not enough to fill her
own life with objects of art. The
only way in which, she may be sur—
rounded with beauty is to create
harmonious surroundings every-
where. Impatience with ugliness
in public structures, in city plan—
ning, 1n the slums that shut off
children from their birthright of
constructive activity and self-ex—
pressionu—this is a logical attitude

They tind a camp—made kiln satis-
factory tor tiring their pottery

Paul Parker Photo

developed from heightened sensibilities and in-
creased perceptions. It is part of the good times
she enjoys when she visits noteworthy buildings
with her friends or makes a piece of pottery for
her own room at home.

W'ho helps the Girl Scout work out her stand-
ards of good workmanship? Who goes with her
to visit museums or to point out the delicate con-
struction of the clustered pillars and pointed
arches in the family church? Museum officials.
artists, men and women who have themselves
found happiness through working creatively with
their hands, all volunteer to act as consultants in
the Girl Scout arts and crafts program. Since the
program has been developing for many years,
these men and women have already contributed a
great deal to the expanding interests of the girls.
Others are offering their services as they see what
the enlarged program can mean to girls and con-
sultants alike in good times, in interests shared, in
enthusiasms developed, in community betterment.

Through these interested men and .women, the
girls’ interest in the arts and crafts may begin any-

where. In a Girl Scout camp near New York
(Continued on page 116)

 

Music as a Playground Activity

HE VOICE is a common instru-

ment to us all and almost

everyone can sing. Many peo—
ple who say they cannot sing are
inhibited by embarrassment and, if
they really trytand can overcome the fright of
‘ hearing themselves, they will be surprised at
their ability. It is not necessary to have a beauti—
ful voice in order to sing well in a chorus, and,
as one leader remarks, “You can be a true artist
without an exceptional voice, or without a good
ear for music, or without sight-reading ability.”
In a well directed chorus it is possible to attain a
degree of artistic expression and joy that is given
only to the most expert in-
strumentalists and solo singers.

By MARIE FOSTER
Supervisor of Music '

Recreation Department

San Francisco. California

instruments make us wonder if
this dream can be realized.

On most playgrounds, however,
we are limited to instruction in
only the low grade instruments
such as the harmonica, ukulele and such. Many
people like to play these instruments and through
them may be led happily into admirable kinds of
music to which they had previously been indiffer-
ent. Here again leadership enters into the picture.
Too often musicians and music educators have.
scorned this lower field of musical activity; the
leader of the harmonica band has been content to
avoid a course of tedious practice and has missed
the opportunity to present a
view of the richer musical

The music may be very sim-
ple, a folk song being as lovely
and perfect a thing as has ever
been heard. ‘

We were very anxious to
build up organized activities

Some time ago Mrs. Foster told in
Recreation of the musical activi-
ties enioyed on the San Francisco
playgrounds. emphasizing singing as
the first activity. In this article
she urges recreation workers to
make music an absolutely essen-
tial part of the playground program.

fields beyond.
Rhythm Bands. The instru-

‘ments used in rhythm bands

or toy symphonies are those
that are easiest to play. These
are the drums, triangles,

for the small boys on one of
our San Francisco playgrounds
and a day was set aside for singing. The boys’
reaction when first approached was exactly as you
might imagine. Not one of them, so they said,
could sing nor would admit they even liked to
sing. However, they came and had such' a good
time the first day that the same group returned
the following week. They sang a few college
songs with good march rhythms, such as “An—
chors Aweigh,” LaForge’s Negro song “Shorten-
in’ Bread,” and “The Keeper,” an English Folk
Song. This last interested them very much and
they were surprised to hear that all countries had
folk songs. They asked that they might learn
similar songs from many other lands.

This incident proves that with good leadership
and the right songs even the most indifferent and
untrained can be given the privilege and joy of
musical self—expression. Reach the lyrical strain

that is in most people, and they will sing for
hours and be re-created.

Instrumental Music Possible

Enthusiastic music teachers say that everyone

can learn to play some musical instrument. Many
obstacles such as lack of funds for instruction and

100

sleigh-bells, tambourines, cym-
bals, xylophones, bird whistles,
wood blocks and sand blocks. Used in connection
with a piano or victrola they complete a very
pleasing ensemble. I know of no better early
training in music than the rhythm band, for it
teaches not only the pulse of the music but how to
listen and how to interpret artistically as well. A
playground leader with a most meager budget can
accomplish wonders with the rhythm band. Sim-
ple instruments can be made by the players them—
selves, records of good music can be orchestrated
and much pleasure and real musical education are
the result. Through the aid of WPA we are de— ‘
veloping a drum project in San Francisco that ’
combines music and handicraft. Drums are being '
made from materials that are easily collected,
such as flower pots and butter barrels, and next
summer we plan to develop drum making as an
activity on our playgrounds. Then a drum corps
will be formed and drum rhythms taught.
Advanced Orchestras. I cannot leave the- sub-
ject of playing music without mention of an ad-
vanced orchestra that will furnish the opportunity
of ensemble playing for your serious music
student. Many a high school graduate who has
played in his school orchestra wishes for some

MUSIC AS A PLAYGROUND ACTIVITY 101

similar organization that will give him the op-
portunity of continuing and enlarging his musical
experience. In San Francisco we have our Junior
Civic Symphony where, under the leadership of a
fine musician, the young student has an oppor‘
tunity to learn for himself the music of the mass
ters and to re—create the stimulating music that
has touched his heart and mind. He has the op-
portunity to become a skilled musical amateur.

Whistling Not to Be Overlooked!

Whistling is still another form of musical activity
and is so easy and natural that the most self-
conscious person will play his instrument any-
where without embarrassment. Why not enlarge
on its possibilities and attain a good, firm tone in
it, and good rhythm, phrasing and nuance? On
playgrounds there may be whistling contests, but,
of course, too much organization cannot enter
into whistling, for its value lies in its spontaneity
and in its intimacy.

Dancing as a Musical Activity '

Dancing, as a musical activity, has for its sole
purpose the interpretation of the music. Real
music is not in sounds, but is in us, and even when
we are listening quietly our whole being is en-
listed. Dancing, then, is a way of getting into the
music and expressing it ourselves in bodily mo-
tions. Growth in this creative dancing requires a
teacher who is an artist as well as a teacher, but
if that is impossible much fun and musical ex—
perience may be gained from simple folk dancing.
This year the children on our San Francisco play-
grounds are combining their singing and folk
dancing, and in our spring festival are included

the singing and dancing of several German folk
songs.

Acting to Music

There are three kinds of acting to music that
we will mention briefly. The first is pageantry in
which, of course, dancing and singing are com—
bined to tell the story. The second is the panto—
miming of a song while a
chorus sings it, the song text
telling the story. The third
kind of acting to music com-
bines both singing and acting.
and opera is the highest form
of this kind. In this section
belongs the Operetta, and while
the majority of them are very

In connection with the rhythm bands
which Mrs. Foster mentions. we want
to call our readers' attention to the
attractive pamphlet by A. D. Zanzig
entitled Starting and Developing
a Rhythm Band, which recreation
workers will tind very helpful. Copies
may be secured at I5 cents each from
the National Recreation Association.

poor musically; there may be a few that are worth
the time and effort spent in preparing them.

The acting out of songs has the most advan—
tages for playgrounds for it requires little re-
hearsing and very little time for presentation. It
also may bring everyone present into the play by
having them sing. Its musical value consists in a
greater appreciation of the meaning of the song
and in participation in fine songs by pantomime
by persons who might feel they could not sing and
who would not have been attracted to the music
merely as songs.

Listening to Music

Listening is, of course, the most common means
of experiencing music. Today even the most re-
mote districts have their radio and victrola, and
excellent concerts are available to all. Deems Tay-
lor, the eminent music critic, says that as early as
six months a child should hear some music each
day. By the time he is two years of age, he
should hear folk songs and nursery rhymes and
soon he will have them for his own. As he grows
older, perhaps by his sixth year, he should hear
the more complicated forms of music, orchestral
and chamber music, symphonic poems and parts
of symphonies. In other words, make music a
necessary part of the child’s life, as simple and
enjoyable as reading fairy tales. Direct the child’s
mind into channels thatFwill yield him cultural re-
turns later on. He will then listen to music with-
out pose or self-consciousness, and will derive
pleasure and comfort from it all his life. As rec-
reational leaders we can perhaps do little in this
formative period of which Mr. Taylor speaks, but
we can ever hold fast to an ideal and help spread
the doctrine of good music which is good for all.
As an example of this, a group of junior high
school boys, who apparently had no especial love
for music, were subjected to this listening pro—
cess and thoroughly enjoyed it. They sat spell-
bound through three Chopin waltzes and some
Schubert and were loathe to leave when their time ‘
was up.

Leadership

I have continually mention-
ed leadership, and the neces-
sity of a good musical leader
cannot be overemphasized.
What should be- some of the
qualifications of this leader?
First, and of greatest impor—

(Continued on page 117)

WORLD AT PLAY

DR. William Gould
Vinal, Director of the
Nature Guide School
at Massachusetts State
College, in announcing the program of the nature
section———“Outdoor Leadership in Recreation——
Conservation”——at the outdoor recreation confer-
ence recently held at the Massachusetts State Col—
lege at Amherst, has given some interesting facts
about nature recreation. For the last three years,
he states, nature recreation has developed more
than a decade in advance of expectations. One
hundred and forty-two city parks have activities
in nature recrea-
tion; 101 cities are
maintaining 270
nature trails; New
York, Indianapo-
lis, Pittsburgh and
Cincinnati are
maintaining a
nature guide ser—
vice. Recreation
demonstration
projects are con-
verting thousands
of acres of sub-
marginal land into
playgrounds and
camping areas;
land zoning is bringing about
wild life sanctuaries, nature
landscaping, and youth hos-
tels. The recent deve10pment of out—of—the-city
parks, with attendant hiking trails, picnic centers,
boating, fishing and camping, marks other phases
of nature recreation.

Nature Recreation
Makes Progress

FROM January I7th
through 23rd Win-
chester, New Hamp—
shire, dedicated its
new community building given to the town on his
birthday by Governor Francis P. Murphy of New
Hampshire in honor of his mother. The me-
morial was dedicated at a banquet on the evening
of January 17th when a number of distinguished
guests were present, including the governors of
four states. ‘

102

A Community Center
for Winchester

 

Such nature trails as the one in Mohawk
Park. Tulsa. Oklahoma. are multiplying

One of the buildings comprising the Ellen Lam-
bert Murphy Memorial, is the Alexander Home-
stead of fifteen rooms which has been remodeled
to meet the needs of the community. The new
building houses an auditorium, bowling alleys and
game rooms. There is a playground near the
building and a parking space for automobiles.
Reverend George Truman Carl, Pastor of the
Federated Church, will be the director of the cen—
ter. He will be assisted by an instructor in hob-
bies and crafts. Activities at the center will in—
clude sports, as well as art, music, handcraft and
the drama.

I'

The Anchor
Boys’ Club of
Wilkes-B arre

IN February 1937
under the auspices
of the Playground
and Recreation
Association of
Wyoming Valley,
a club for boys
was organized in
a garage in Wilkes—
Barre, Pa. There
is at present a
membership of 52
boys, ranging in age from 12
to 2 5 years.

A small rental is paid
monthly for use of the garage, the boys them—
selves, through membership dues, assisting in pay—
ing the expenses. Under leadership provided by
\VPA the program has been developed including
table games, crafts, wrestling, dancing and music. I
The equipment was made by the boys from ma- 3
terial supplied by the Association. The Osterhout
Library cooperates by supplying the group with
reading material. No boys from the Anchor Club
section have appeared before the Saturday morn—
ing juvenile Court since the organization of the
grOUp. The boys have set aside Thursday nights as
girls’ night, and under the leadership of a woman
worker, thirty girls have enjoyed regular club ac—
tivity including crafts, music and games. A Christ—
mas party was held by the girls, who are now

WORLD AT PLAY 103

planning a spring dance. A girls’ basketball team
was formed from members of the club.

Los Angeles Adds New Play Areas—During
the early part of 1938, two play areas were added
to the recreation system of the city of Los An-
geles, California, which now maintains fifty-two
playgrounds, sixteen swimming pools and live
miles of public beach. Injanuary the Rancho
Cienega Recreation Center was dedicated with ap-
propriate ceremonies. The site of this playground,
which comprises 30 acres and is the largest mu-
nicipal playground devoted exclusively to sports
and recreation in the entire city, was donated by
Mrs. Anita M. Baldwin at the request of the Los
Angeles Junior Chamber of Commerce. Develop-
ment of the tract was carried out through an im-
provement project completed at a cost of $218,971,
of which WPA contributed $166,824 and the Los
Angeles Department of Playground and Recrea—

tion $52,147.

In February came the official opening of
Daniels Field, San Pedro, owned by the Board of
Education and located on a part of the former
site of the San Pedro High School which during
the past year moved to new and more spacious
quarters. Upon representations made by the
Chamber of Commerce, Daniels Field was turned
over to the Playground and Recreation Commis—
sion to be improved and operated by it as long as
it is not required for other purposes by the Board
of Education.

An International Housing and Town Plan-
ning Congress—On the invitation of the Mexi-
can Government and officials of Mexico City, the
International Congress of Housing and Town
Planning will meet in Mexico City from August
I 3th to August 20th. Congress subjects to be dis—
cussed include Housing in Tropical and Subtropi-
cal Countries, Planning Recreation and the Use
of Leisure Time, and Underground Planning.
The'conference will be followed by a six or seven
day study tour of some of the most important de-
velopments in Mexico. Further informati0n re-
garding the program may be secured from the
XVIth International Congress of Housing and

Town Planning, Ramos Arizpe No. I, Mexico,
D. F.

Summer Courses at Mills College-——-For the
thirteenth year Mills College, Oakland, California,
will open its doors to both men and women during
the summer session. There will be courses in art,

  

Popular Handicrafts

         
     
 

LEATHERCRAF T METALCRAF T
BEADCRAF T BLOCK PRINTING
CRYSTOL CRAFT WOOD CARVIN G
BASKETRY SPONGEX

    
 

CLAYMODELIN G KN OTTIN G

We have all necessary tools and materials for a
successful craft program. Supplies unusually com-
plete and ranging from in-
 -.  expensive articles for chil-
‘  dren to more advanced proj-.

ects for adults.

Only the nnest materials
carried at lowest prices con-
sistent with quality. In 'ad-
dition to the complete sup—
plies listed above we have
recently added the entire
stock and assets of The
Leathercraft Studios of
Graton & Knight 00.

Send 100 for 72 page, fully
illustrated catalogue of sup-
plies. Thousands of hard to
get tools and materials for
"-1 all the above crafts are
listed and described.

AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS CO.

Distributors of Quality Handicraft Supplies
193 WILLIAM STREET NEW YORK. N. Y.

2124 SOUTH MAIN STREET. LOS ANGELES. CALIF.

    
  

    
 
        
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
      

 

      
       
      

dance and sports, education and music. An added
feature this summer will be the Progressive Edu-
cation Association’s workshop. The fourth annual
Institute of International Relations will meet from
June 21st to July Ist. Information regarding the
summer session, which will be held from June
26 {to August 6, 1938, may be secured from the

college.

Toy Loan Library Multiplies—The toy loan
library in Los Angeles, California, has grown to
such proportions that from the start made in one
modest library the movement has advanced to the
point Where there are now ten libraries, all under

.the direction of the Los Angeles Coordinating

Councils, according to the California Parent-
Teacher. Applications have been made for thirty-
live more libraries.

Camps in Recreational Demonstration Areas
—-Twenty organized camps were operated within
National Park Service recreational demonstration
areaslast summer affording a total of 100,769
camper-days vacation. Forty-one organizations
used the camps making them available to selected
groups of children and adults. In the 1936 sea—

104 , ' WORLD AT PLAY

Money-Making HOBBIES

Let a master hobbyist, A. Frederick Collins, show you
how to turn your spare time into cash profits. It’s easy
and it’s fun. Mr. Collins in. his new book “Money-Making
Hobbies” chooses twelve hobbies which offer the greatest
money-making possibilities. He shows how to start each
hobby, what materials and knowledge are required, and
how to do _it. Expensive equipment is not necessary in
using recreation lucratively. Get a copy of “Money-
Making Hobbies” at any bookstore today. $2.00

D. APPLETON-CBNTURY CO.. 35 W. 32nd St" New York

 

son only nine organized camps were in use. Sixty
organized camps are under construction in the
recreational demonstration areas situated in
twenty-four states. Picnic areas, roads, trails, ad—
ministrative buildings, large and small dams, wild
life and forestry jobs have been completed or are
in the process of develOpment in varying degrees
on every area, and heavy public use has been made
of most of the facilities provided, according to A.
E. Demaray, acting director of the National Park
Service. Many of the areas offer opportunities
for winter sports and activities, and it is expected
that a number of them will be put to such use this
fall and winter. Cabins and other buildings used
for organized camping in summer are made avail-
able for individual or group use after the sum—
mer season.

Barn Dances in Cincinnati—Every Saturday
night over Cincinnati’s largest radio station,

WLVV, there is an hour and a half broadcast call-
ed the “Renfro Valley Barn Dance.” The broad-
cast is held in Music Hall and the place is crowd-
ed every week. The radio station has brought to
Cincinnati to conduct this broadcast and to teach
theldances, Bascom Lamar Lunsford, known as
the minstrel of the Appalachians. Mr. Lunsford
is an authority on the Appalachian ballads and
dances. Every Tuesday night he conducts a barn
dance for the Public Recreation Commission at
which there is an average attendance of I50 peo-
ple who come from the country districts to dance.
Spectators are not allowed, only those who par-
ticipate in the dances being permitted to enter.

A Street Playgrounds Bill in Great Britain—
The February 1938 issue of Playing Fields tells
of a bill for street playgrounds which has been
introduced in the House of Commons. The bill,
which is a temporary solution of the problem of
lack of play space, gives power to local authori-
ties who are responsible for more than 20,000in-
habitants either to prohibit or restrict traffic\in
any street, either generally or at any particular

time, in order to turn that street into a play-
ground.

Baseball Still a Favorite Sport—Statistics
compiled by Boston University show that when it
comes to games students like best to take part in.
baseball is still the national pastime. Basketball
ranks second with the undergraduates, and foot-
ball is in third place. Tennis is the favorite coed
sport, with basketball second and swimming third.
The girls mentioned a total of twenty-nine sports
in which they like to participate in the following
order: volley ball, riding, field hockey, fencing,
bowling, archery, baseball, badminton, listball, ping
pong, skating, hiking, lacrosse, soccer, sailing,
track, camping, canoeing, bicycling, softball, roller
skating, rifiery, tumbling an'd gymnastics. Four-
teen of them listed tap dancing as their favorite
sport, and four included dramatics in the list.
Their brother students included on their list band,

chess, music and cheer leader. They listed thirty-

one sports in all, and their favorites after baseball,
basketball and football were tennis, track, swim-
ming, hockey, crew, golf, boxing, riHery, wrestl-
ing, fencing, cross country, soccer, bowling, soft-
ball, l'leld hockey, riding, touch football, handball.
lacrosse, squash, volley ball, yacht racing, boating
and rowing.

An Experiment in Co-Recreation — Miss
Margaret Brooke, secretary of the London, Eng-
land, Central Council for the Social Welfare of
Girls and Women, has selected, as her assignment
the finding of friends for lonely girls in London.
She reports an amazing growth in tramping clubs
for young men and women, with much of the
leadership being taken by the boys and girls
themselves.

Reading a Favorite Hobby—Reading for
pleasure is a favorite hobby of New York City I
adults, with listeningto the radio and going to the '
movies close runners-up, according to the results
of a survey by the Board of Education’s WPA.
adult education program. Fifty-seven different
hobbies were listed by the 2,445 men and women
reached in the study. Although dancing was listed
as a hobby by students between the ages of sev-
enteen and twenty-five, those between twenty—five
and thirty—five were interested in such subjects as
art, interior decorating, the making of aviation
models and photography. Those of sixty seemed
to be content for the most part to listening to con-
certs. Reading attracted all ages, 439 people list-
ing this subject as their hobby, while sports and

M ~ "' i ‘ c In ' 1
x \ payer‘s—Mug; -’..,, . , 3 ., ..
i. A I- " I“ i ‘ ‘

 

. VA ,l 

I g! a

y“ . 5_ Q g
 as. 3.13: “a? a a
i

' , * ‘r: i ‘i f ‘51: ‘
Q“ We. N13? g‘ir‘xi‘s‘i‘i “‘1‘
.  2&3“‘*‘i‘3“i‘f‘i ’ .

. I

s
,. I

W ‘
i. .l‘

\ 

“'5: a. ‘-m?a

Easily Applied - Inexpensive -_ Long Lasting

ERE is a practical solution tO the dust tion per season or year will suffice.
problem on playgrounds,tennis courts Write for your copy Of our free booklet
and athletic fields! “Gulf Sani-Soil-Set.” It will give you com-
Gulf Sani-Soil-Set—developed by Gulf’s plete information about this remarkable
research technologists—is an ideal product dust allayer.
for dust allaying purposes on earth sur-
faces. Properly applied, it will not “track”. GULF OIL CORPORATION
It will not harm shoes or clothing. It can GULF REFINING COMPANY
be applied at 10‘” com—and one applica' w GENERAL omces: GULF BUILDING.
t . .7 . PITTSBURGH. PA.

. GULF OIL CORPORATION - GULF REFINING COMPANY, .
General Offices: Gulf Building. Pittsburgh. Pa. R 4 .

. Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet “Gulf

. SanLSoil-Set for Treating Playgrounds." .

. Name ...... . .. .................................................... . . .

.  u o a a o a u u o a u c o.’ u I o o o o o a a a ODD-lb c a a a I o o a I a o uu'u o u o o coo u u a a on .

. Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

 

106 WORLD AT PLAY

  
   

Make your own Beaded Bags, Belts, Bracelets, Necklaces, Clips,

Hot-Plate Mats, Coasters, Wall Plcques, etc. The new, easy-to-
folI0w, Walco Instruction and Desugn Booklets are available
at 10c per copy. Send for them NOW and get Sample Cards

of Actual Beads FREE.
[:I WOOD BEADCRAFT [:1 TILE BEADCRAFT
[j CUBE BEADCRAFT

[:1 INDIAN BEADCRAFT

Check the Beadcratts in which you are interested and send 10c
for each Instruction and Design Booklet desired (Bead samples
includedl—or it you prefer, send for our FREE LITERATURE de-

scribing the various Beadcrafts.

WALCO BEAD CO. DEPT.TR-8 37  37TH ST.,N.Y.C.
EDUCATIONAL ' USEFUL ' FASCINATING

attending athletic contests were popular among
students of seventeen to thirty. Woodcraft ap-
pealed to those between eighteen and thirty. Men
showed greater interest and had a more diversified
number of hobbies than did women.

A Back-to—Nature Trip for Steubenville
Children—Fifty-six children from the play-
grounds at Steubenville, Ohio, last summer en-
joyed a two day backuto-nature trip to Lake Guil-
ford near Salem. The group enjoyed two days of
swimming, fishing, boating, square dancing, na-

The New

AMERICAN
. C H U R C H
MONTHLY

Stands for straight thinking, knowledge of

the facts and the Faith, and fearlessness in contending for
principles.

Our old friends are enthusiastic and new

ones are being added daily beCause they find in these pages
stimulating and thought-provoking approaches to the probiems
that arise every day in the Anglican Church.

—_—-——_——.—-_———~_—_—--_

THE NEW AMERICAN CHURCH MONTHLY
9S MADISON AVENUE, New YORK, N. Y.

Enter my subscription for ............ ..years. I enclose $ .............. ..
Name .......................................................................................... ..
Address ............................................................  ...................... ..
R-4

Rates:
2 years $5.00 Canada 25¢ a year extra
1 year $3.00 Foreign 50¢ a year extra

 

ture hikes, cooking over a camp tire and sleeping
under the stars. The enthusiasm and appreciation
shown by the children demonstrated the need for
a municipal camp. Another popular feature of the
playground season is the nature program intro-
duced in 1936. Among the activities are nature
hikes, fishing, mounting and studying animals and
the construction of bird houses. A nature spe-
cialist is in charge.

Training in Landscape Design—The Exten-
sion Division of the University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin, is offering a home study
course in landscape design which furnishes plans
for home landscaping and stimulates their appli-
cation. The course includes such topics as the
survey plan, design plan and planting plan. It
deals with the construction of' a beautiful lawn,
the securing, planting and tending of plant ma-
terials, and the introduction of special features es-
sential to the final enjoyment of the planting. A
unique feature of the course is the adaptation of
the instruction to the special needs of an indi-

vidual project.

A New Citizens’ Party—On February 22nd
the Daughters of the American Revolution, the
Cudworth Post of the American Legion and the
Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, honored
the Milwaukee men and women who received
their naturalization papers during 1937 by ar-
ranging the sixth annual new citizens’ party. The
program consisted of appropriate addresses, mu-
sical selections followed by dancing and a social
evening in the gymnasium of the West Wisconsin
Avenue Social Center.

An Airplane Exhibit—In December 1937,
Oak Park, Illinois, held the annual exhibit of the
Airplane Club sponsored by the Playground
Board. The club is under the direction of a for-
mer army flier in the World War who is espe-
cially good in his contacts with boys and girls. His
models are for the most part scale models of real
planes. In addition to the boys’ club, there is a
girls’ club of fifteen, all working for their regu-
lar flying pilot’s license. The club has the use of
an abandoned fire hall which at the time of the
exhibit was tilled with models of all types ranging
from small, solidly carved out planes to gas pro-
pelled models four to six feet long.

The Thursday Night Club—One place where

WORLD AT PLA Y 107

everything is argued, debated and discussed, but
where nothing is settled, is in the Thursday Night
Club of the Dixwell Community House, New
Haven, Connecticut, which meets in the library
at 8:00 P. M. The purpose is to stimulate in—
terest in current events of local, state, national
and international importance. It is a liberal body,
headed by a young Hindu graduate of the Yale
Divinity School who also holds the Degree of
Doctor of Philosophy, Yale University. Uni-
versity, Normal School, High School students and
laymen comprise the group. Anyone who is in—
terested is eligible to participate. '

A Novel Swimming Pool—An exceedingly
novel swimming pool has been planned for the
1939 Golden Gate International Exposition on San
Francisco Bay. According to the plans, this un-
usual plunge will be of glass and stainless steel,
allowing spectators to view the swimmers from the
bottom and sides of the pool. The proposed
plunge building will be 156 feet long and 115 feet
wide; the plans call for a pool 55’x110’. Twelve
lanes will be provided for swimming events. The
deep portion of the pool from I4 feet up will be
of stainless steel and the remaining portion of
glass. On the sides of the pool will be runways
20 feet wide of brightly colored composition ma-
terial. On either side of the pool bleachers will be
located for approximately 2000 spectators, while
the dressing rooms will be underneath the spec-
_tators’ stands. Lighting of the pool and the en-
tire plunge room, including the Spectators’ gallery,
will be accomplished by under-water lighting.

New Slides at Pontiac, Michigan—The Ki-
wanis Club of Pontiac, Michigan, has placed hve
slides on school grounds in an effort to make to-
bogganing safe for the children of the city. The
slides were constructed by a local lumber dealer
at a cost of $70 each. They are so constructed
that in the summer chutes may be added to the
upper section. In this way it will be possible to
use the apparatus the year round.

Recreation Clubs for Adults —The Recrea-
tion Division of the Lansing, Michigan, Park De-
partment has developed a number of interesting
clubs for adults. There are six clubs for women
who meet to enjoy games, social activities, music
and drama. The clubs for men number three. One
is composed almost entirely of business men; the
second is made up of a group of younger men just

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Equipment

For all Sports CATALOG

SENT ON
REQUEST

fth P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
  CIIICIIIIIIII OHIO:

c’
- - a”? ‘ ‘ 'W‘C’EW W" ""'.:-W” ‘ ' “W?” ‘ “Aw”.

 

out of school, while the third includes a few
younger boys. There are twenty-live so-called
homemakers clubs meeting weekly, most of them
in homes of members. The majority of clubs
hold a very short business meeting and a group
discussion of a lesson sheet provided by the Rec-
reation Department which discusses some phase
of health, child training, or home beautihcation.
Social features are introduced into each meeting.

Recreation in Berkeley—A new publication
financed through advertising has appeared in
Berkeley, California, under the title Play in Ber-
keley—a Calendar of Recreation. The purpose is
to give a daily calendar of all recreational, cul-
tural, civic and social events over a two weeks’
period so that Berkeleyans may know in advance
what is going on in their city. It also provides
special feature articles on the city’s many recrea-
tional facilities. Through the pages of the maga-
zine publicity is being given to the work of the
Recreation Department. The opening article in

the January I 5th issue is devoted to a presentation
of the program.

108 WORLD AT PLA Y

What Our Readers Say About

School Act

"1 think that this journal
(School Activities) is worthy
of a place in the library of
every school administrator
and should be available to
teachers everywhere.”

(Signed)

LEROY E. COWLES. Dean
Universitiy of Utah

 

"1 find the School Activi-
ties Magazine the most valu-
able one placed upon my
desk. There are so many
practical things inside that
one may use in his own
school. I never expect to be
without it as long as I am
connected with schoolwork."

(Signed)

E. V. CORE, Principal
Union High School
Union, West Virginia

Successful educators everywhere are using
School Activities. We invite you to join this
rapidly growing group of school people who
are using this keen tool to improve their work.

Send us your subscription order immediately.
We are certain School Activities will not dis-
appoint you ;—if it does, just cancel your sub-
scription after you receive the first issue.

Subscription Price $2.00

School Activities Pub. Co.
1515 Lane Street

Topeka, Kansas

 

Making Their Own Instruments—The coun—
selor and the girls at the summer camp of_ the
Fargo, North Dakota, Camp Fire Girls together
explored the tone world and made many interest—
ing discoveries regarding primitive instruments.
From sawed bits of wood strung together they
made a marimba; they laced bamboo tubes cut
from an old fishing rod with dyed rafha to make
Pipes of Pan, and from some cheese tubs and
chopping bowls found at the camp they con-
structed kettledrums and tom-toms. When the
instruments had been constructed, the girls im-
provised rhythms for them and used them in their

pioneer pageant.

Tennis Comes to Life in Oklahoma City— .

Interest in the age-old sport of tennis rose to a
new high in the summer of 1937 in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, where for five years the sport
had been in the “doldrums.” Cooperating with
the Municipal Tennis Association, which has been
in charge of the tennis program, G. 'W. Daniel-

son, Recreation Director of the City Park De-
partment, engaged a well-known tennis player.
His next step was to interest one of the leading
newspapers in offering awards for the proposed
tournament which it was hoped would prove to
be the largest ever held in that section of the
country. Within two weeks after the campaign
had started 1,254 entries had been received in the
eleven classihcations. All of the courts in the city
were put at the committee’s disposal, including
several school playground courts. Because of the
exceptionally well-organized system of bracketing
and scheduling matches which was used it took
only three weeks to run off the huge event. Today
the courts all over the city park system are
crowded and people of all ages are playing. Old
timers who had given up the game years ago are
back on the courts. Sporting goods houses have
reported an increase in the sale of tennis equip-
ment from 100 to 500 per cent.

A Mammoth Swimming Pool——The High-
land Park swimming pool in St. Paul, according
to the October issue of Minnesota Municipalities,
ranks first in the state and third in the nation in
point of size, and is surpassed by none insofar
as physical and sanitary equipment is concerned.
Dedicated in June 1937 as a feature of the open-
ing of St. Paul parks, the pool immediately be-
came so successful that the average daily attend-
ance was in excess of 1,000 and the Park Board
was petitioned to open it as early as 6:00 A. M.
and make it available until 10:00 P. M. The pool,
which measures 60 by 210 feet, varies in depth
from 1% to 9% feet. Adjoining the pool is a play
area paved with cement and partly shaded. VVith-
in a short distance of the water is a two story
limestone bath house measuring 44 by 50 feet,
with a large sun balcony overlooking the pool
from which interested people may watch the bath-
ers. The main floor has a spacious lounge with
accommodations for a refreshment stand. Two
stairways lead to basement dressing rooms, show—

ers and locker rooms.

A Nature Guide School—The Nature Guide
School sponsored by the Massachusetts State Col-
lege will be held this summer in the Otter River
State Forest, Massachusetts, in an abandoned
CCC camp. On June 18th a two weeks’ pre-camp
school for nature counselors will begin its ses-
sion. On June 26th the two weeks’ state conser—
vation camp for Junior 4-H members will open,

A PLAYGROUND GOES TO THE CHILDREN 109

while July 5th will initiate a six weeks’ credit
course for leaders in ecology, bird study, pond
life and outdoor leadership. August 7th will
mark the beginning of Federated Garden Club
\Veek. Further information about the school, and
a catalogue of courses, may be secured from Dr.

\Villiam G. V inal, Fernald Hall, Amherst, Mas-
sachusetts.

A Playground Goes to the Children

(Continued from page 62)

was the neighborhood expression of regret and
sorrow that this happy center must be closed to
them. We felt that way, too. We wanted to hold
fast the gains made and felt if an indoor program
were possible, desired results would be attained.
But where and how were vexing questions. Would
it be practicable to use a bandbox house as a play
center? There was a vacant house just across the
street from the entrance to the tot lot. It had not
been occupied for eight years but was larger than
a typical bandbox. City housing inspectors pro-
nounced it safe, and the hunt for the owner began.
Meanwhile, funds were secured to keep the lead-
ers on the job. Activities were promoted after
school on the tot lot. Permission was finally re-
ceived to use the house if we fixed it up. It took,
with the neighbors help, nearly three weeks to
complete the task.

The lot Lot Moves Indoors. In October the “Lit-
tle Playhouse” had a grand opening. The four
rooms were pretty crowded, but the children were
used to that. On the first floor a small room was
dedicated as “library” and another, the largest
room in the house, as “assembly” and general
playroom. The boys were assigned to the second
floor rooms, one of which was used as a shop, the
other for boxing and games. Our neighbors came
to visit and inspect. They could not imagine how
such a transformation was possible. None of
them would have attempted to fix it up or live in
the house. They were interested in our lovely
5 and Ioc store curtains. They enjoyed the cheer-
ful, colorful decorations. We surmised that it
would appeal to them and were not surprised to
see later improvements in nearby homes. i

As far as space permitted, much of the program
that had been carried on at the playground was
continued in the playhouse. There were other
, projects more adapted to indoor treatment. Our

HERE is never a dull or idle moment
when children gather at Mitchell-equip-

ped playgrounds. The spice of variety
is combined with stimulating play.

And Mitchell Playground Apparatus is truly
“Betterbilt” in every detail. Design, ma-
terials and conStruction assure maximum
safety as well as highest permanence. More
than 40 years of experience in making steel
goods testify to our ability to produce cor-
rectly designed, well-made equipment.

Write for literature on complete
line—including swimming pool
equipment and'the famous steel-
chassis FOLD-0_-LEG Table.

MITCHELL MFG. CO.

Dept. R-S MILWAUKEE, ,wns.

 

tot lot programs have gone in for libraries. There
is the pet library, doll library, book library, and
now the picture library. About forty prints of the
great masters were mounted, and each week, at
assemblies, the story of the pictures is given. A
child is privileged to take one of the prints home
for a week. Often this print is the only thing of
beauty in the home.

A Nature Program on a Playground
(Continued from page 72)

Groups Reached

The Recreation Department is particularly
pleased that many of the under-privileged chil-
dren were reached. In some of the less privileged
districts of the city it was possible to show them
many things they knew of only from reading and
pictures, if they knew of them at all. On one
occasion a little.fellow looked wide-eyed at a
young Pacific Coast "Newt (salamander) which
the supervisor called by its’nickname “waterdog.”
After several minutes of squirming about in his
chair, the boy’s excitement overcame his shyness
and he jumped from his chair crying, “Why don’t

110 “ONCE UPON A TIME”

 

 

 

HOW?OORGGNIZE
6ND PROMOTE 6

  
 

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone- interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-

shoe Cluh” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and

rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.
M

—
heem bark?” On a few occasions service clubs
provided carfare to take children from these dis-
tricts into the hills. It was astounding to learn
that for some this excursion included a first street
car ride or first trip across town!

      

In Conclusion

On the basis of the summer’s experiences the
following points are suggested as considerations
in planning a.nature program for playgrounds:

Playground directors need not hesitate to at-
tempt a nature program if they are sincerely in-
terested in nature. It is exceedingly helpful to
present at the annual training course a skeleton

outline for the use of the playground worker in
preparing a week-to-week program.

A hike immediately following the nature spe-
cialist’s visit, while enthusiasm is high, helps to
crystallize interest.

An age limit should be required in order to as-
sure homogeneous groups. Hikers, for example,
prove very difficult to manage when the hikers
range from six to twenty-five years of age.

It is well at the first of the summer to make
scrap books on which to mount blue prints and
other nature prints as specimens.

Movies and slides add tremendously to the
program.

Hikers should wear old clothes and comfort-
able old shoes, and should leave their dogs at
home. The group will progress just as fast as the
slowest hiker, and one uncomfortable, hobbling
hiker can do much to dampen the spirits of the

grotlp.

Children susceptible to poison ivy should wash
once or twice with a strong soap while on the
hike. This will help to prevent oak poisoning in
many cases.

It is well to discourage children from bringing
live exhibits to the grounds before checking with
the director on means of providing proper cages
or containers for them.

"Once Upon a Time"
( Continued from page 75)

small, informal groups. For the camp fire and
other main events you would better tell the story
yourself; everyone will be better satisfied. Don’t
let the children get the ghost story habit started.
Circle stories, in which all the children participate,
are fine. In these, each child makes up and tells a
short incident in an adventure story which the
leader has started and will end.

Stories to Tell

It is not our intention in this article to give a
long list of stories to tell. Rather it is our plan to
suggest the kind of story to select and how to
recognize it. This we have done briefly, but a few
examples may be of further help. Adventure
stories stand almost alone in this *group.*

Mr. Higginbotham’s Catastrophe, Nathaniel
Hawthorne

Told by the Campfire, F. H. Cheley

In the Fog, Richard Harding Davis

Captain S harkey, Conan Doyle

Sherlock Holmes, Conan Doyle

The Ransom of Red Chief, 0. Henry

The Prisoner of Assiont, Grant Allen

Buried Treasure, Steward Edward White

Long Odds, H. Rider Haggard

The Three Strangers, Thomas Hardy

The Most Dangerous Game, R. E. Connell

The Bamboo Trap, R. S. Lemmon

Zenobia’s I njidelity, H .C. Bunner

 

* This list is of stories suitable for boys. The writer has had
no experience with groups of all girls. In mixed groups it has
been observed that girls like the same stories as boys.

,-

SAND CRAFT ON THE PLAYGROUND 111

Historical incidents can be used with good ef-
fect if they are sufficiently adventuresome. The
writer has repeatedly told the incident of Marie
Antoinette and the diamond necklace.

Incidents from novels can be used, but they
should be told so that they are complete in them-
selves. Episodes from Drums Along the Mohawk
by Walter D. Edmonds have been used. Love
stories are to be avoided.

Poems are often used with splendid effect. The
Shooting of Dan M (Grew and The Cremation of
Sam McGee by R. \V. Service are probably the
favorites. Hiawatha lends itself to the atmos—
phere of camp fires and *is often used in opening
and closing ceremonies. The poems of Rudyard
Kipling are useful: Comic poems, as they are
usually short, can be used as fillers in any pro-
gram. It is needless to say that poems must
alway be perfectly learned.

Tell stories. Your group will like them, and
you will find them a useful and effective addition
to your program.

A "Friendlier Neighborhood” Summer

(Continued from page 76)

the librarian, and others. We found at the end of
the season that our playgrounds had been at-
tended more regularly and that many more_par—
ents had come to them. The local baby shows, pet
shows and fairs gave the leader a closer contact
than the more general program could do. We
found the entire family in many instances par-
ticipating in the neighborhood events and often
in the fairs. Above all, the program has brought
about a better understanding of what our play-

ground program is and What it is trying to do
for our American family. .

Sand Craft on the Playground

( Continued from page 78)

back over the high lights in our childhood, we
find that certain play experiences have made a
lasting impression upon us, and have had a very
real and definite influence on the way we regard
things and people. Our training and education
determine our viewpoint, and our play is as much
a part of our educational experience as the les-
sons in geography and arithmetic.

The chief value of sand play lies in the fact
that the builder starts with practically nothing—

 

VOIT
PLAYGROUND BALLS

Inflated general utility'balls for many group games includ-
ing Catch Ball, Call Ball, Pin Ball, Water Polo, Dodge Ball,
Kick Ball, Volley Ball, Soccer Ball, Corner Ball, Punch
Ball, Basketball, Captain Ball, Hand Bat Ball, etc.

Made of highest-grade dark-red smooth lively rubber in
8 popular sizes from 6” up. Designed to withstand tough
punishment, whether on smooth floor or sharp-surface play-
ground. Quality molded construction—no bothersome
bladder. Weather-watef-proof—can be easily washed, and

kept clean and sanitary. Fool-proof valve. Complete with
inflating equipment. SCHOOL PRICES.

Write Dept. R for Complete Catalog

W. J. VUIT RUBBER EUHP.

 

there is nothing but the sand pile without form or
shape. This leaves everything to the imagination
and skill. The age of the individual or group
should be considered and the subjects chosen for
reproduction should be well within their compre-
hension. Very young children are amused by
simply letting the dry sand sift through their fin-
gers, falling on their little brown legs and toes.
The next stage is piling up hills and mountains
and digging wells; then comes the building of tun-
nels, railroads, bridges, forts and roughly fash-
ioned buildings. Finally, the attention of the older
groups must be gained by showing the possibili-
ties in making miniature towns with more elabor—
ate buildings, parks and streets with all the details
possible to reproduce. As you look upon a com-
pleted sand picture, including mountains, valleys,
rivers, roads and buildings, imagine you are ‘hav-
ing a real airplane view of a section of the coun-
try. The educational value is increased when the
models are made to scale, and rulers, calipers,
spirit levels and small plumb lines are brought
into use. Even a cleanly cut angle, curve, square
or circle makes an impression upon the adolescent
mind.

112 WHEN THE FINALE IS A PAGEANT

NEW
IMPBOVEMENTS - . e -

. Read this testimonial from one
of our subscribers . .

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois

Gentlemen :

I think the size of JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES magazine this year is a great
improvement over last year’s smaller size. The entire magazine is greatly im-
proved in many ways and I have received a world of help from each month’s

work. Teachers can always read articles in books on psychology, the problem
child, etc., but materials and ideas such as those incorporated in JUNIOR ARTS

AND ACTIVITIES are hard to find. Yours truly,
(Bloomington, Ill., teacher) 1’

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO. ILL.

The JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES organization is striv- 1 year, 10 big issues $2.00 I
ing harder than ever to help and serve you by supplying 2 Years 20 big issues $3 00
the kind of work every teacher is seeking. Let’s work 3 ' 0 b. . °
together. Send"in your subscription today! Take ad- Years' 3 {9 issues $430 ‘
vantage of these low “Introductory Rates.” gr 5 Years. 50 blg Issues $530
SAMPLE COPY 25c
I

Neighborhood Day Camping in gnomes 191an at teppins. He sleeps after drinking ‘
New York City a draught glven hIm, and bats, flreflies and wood

(Contained from page 82) folk dance and gnomes parade. The third scene 1.
Simple dance Steps are set to Such folk songs as IS unusual In that It shows short episodes of 1m-
those mentioned. Special days celebrate all holi— 151; 01'th evenfs grit tOOk Pl"-ce Whlle RIP Slept-'—
days iittingly, and besides these there are such , in B evergs de’ Boston Tea Party! Spmt 0f 2
special Observances as the iirst day of spring, 7 ’ etsy _ 05.5 and the flag; Valley Foorge and
others, endmg 1n VVashlngton s Inauguration. The I

' ground hog day, and the blizzard of I888. , y _ , . .
Resourcefulness is always encouraged, and the last CPISOde Shfwfs RIP S_retum’ hls beWIIderment l
and ms recognItIon by 1118 daughter.

thing most to be desired is actual camping experi-
ence even if it’s only week-ends spent away from

city life. - Reiurbishing the Playground Program .‘
(Continued from page 92) :j
When the Finale Is a Pageant: attendance at these performances was threel
(Continued from page 86) hundred. .
'the stars and moon and the years all dance in turn. Music Indispensable ; ,
The last episode shows the traditional return of On the principle that music is essential to a well_ , J
Rip after twenty Years- . . rounded recreation program, the Works Progress
LanSing, MiChiga-n, also has a Versmn 0f RIP Administration and the municipal authorities in f 
Van Winkle. Like the Louisville one, it is largely Kansas City, Kansas, have made a particular place '
Pantomime and begins in a mafket Sq‘fare “fith for this activity in the recreation program. Here i
(13:119‘35 and games' To escape his SCOldmg Wlofe’ are some of the InUSical expressions listed in the '
R1p takes hIS dog and goes to the mountams program.
where flowers and bees entertain him. A gnome Pre_sch001 Toy Rhythm Bands

calls him and leads him to the place where the Children’s Orchestras

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 113

Symphony Orchestras for Adults

Harmonica Bands

Hill Billy Groups
Piano Classes for Under-privileged

Musical Games
Music Appreciation Class
Clown Bands

Folk Festivals
Outdoor Programs and Concerts

Community Songs
Playground Concerts
Folk Dancing

Square Dancing

Old Fiddler’s Contest
Adult Choruses
Children’s Choruses
Amateur Talent Shows

Band Concerts
Playground Broadcasts Talent

Orchestra for Girls

Orchestra for Boys

Informal Singing

Indoor Programs for all Groups
Vocational Guidance Programs
Novelty Bands

Accordion Bands

Hiking—An Inexpensive but Invaluable
Activity

Almost any playground can be the base for the
organization of local hikes of an educational as
well as recreational nature. A simple schedule
will call for one hike a week. A small group of
bdys and one enthusiastic leader will prove the
most. effective traveling unit. To avoid a large,
unwieldy group it can be arranged for half the
unit to go at one time, the other half on a differ-
ent day.

In any city there are a variety of interesting

places to visit—museums, zoological gardens, air—

ports, civic buildings, manufacturing concerns.
foreign settlements and, of course, the country
out of town.

The organization of the groups as camera clubs,
with most of the members owning fifty cent
cameras in which ten cent films are used, can be
a highly successful' venture. Taking pictures
means developing observation and helps record
what a group has seen. Rainy days may be em-
ployed in making little scrapbooks of the trips il-
lustrated with the pictures taken.

Many thousands of boys grow up in suburban
tenement districts entirely ignorant of interesting
sights close at hand. Where city budgets do not
provide for playground instructors to take the
children on educational trips, it may be necessary

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

        

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, February 1938

Why a Department of Conservation? A Statement
by the Department of Interior

New Jersey WPA Converts City Dump Into a Park

The Romance of America—AddreSs by J. R. Batch-
elor at Convention of American Institute of Park

Executives
Preparing and Maintaining Ice for Skating,

by George Ehmann
Park Board Most Common Form in Park Admin-

istration

Parks and Retreation, March 1938

Policing City and County Parks, prepared by the
National Recreation Association .

Merrymount Park at Quincy, Mass, by Herbert
Kellaway and Phelps Wyman

A Memorial Park to Theodore Roosevelt,

by Charles N. Lowrie
Recreation for the Golf Caddy, by Harvey O’Hare
Nature Lore in the Parks, by Florence Kiefer and

C. E. O’Neal

The Camping Magazine, February 1938

Concerning Camping—Some Philosophical Pointers,

by Jay B. Nash
A Few Fundamentals for Boys’ Counselors,
by Frank H. Cheley

Leisure, March 1938

Sidelights on 3 Nature Trail, by Irving W. Knobloch
An Appreciation for Children in Kansas City,

by Dev Thatcher
For Service to All, by Honorable Francis C. Murphy

Social Group Work and Democracy, E. C. Lindeman
April Fool Party, by Harry D. Edgren
Mental Magic, by R. R. HendersOn

American Childhood, April 1938
This issue is devoted to music and rhythm.

National Parent-Teacher, March 1938

Healthy Attitudes: The High School Girl and Ath-
letics. by Mary C. Coleman
Let’s Play: Fun in Weaving, by Mrs. J. Sharpless

Fox
Who Should Select America’s Movies?

by Ray Lyman Wilbur

School Activities, April 1938

Stunts and Program Material, by Mary M. Bair
Parties for the Season, by Mary Helen Green

The Journal of Health and Physical Education

April 1938
Sport, by Percy -Hughes
Overnight Trips—Yes and No! by Barbara Ellen Joy
Carnival Customs and Frolic, by Carl L. Schrader
Group Games—a Psychological Appraisal,

by Wil-bur D. West, Ph. D.
Women’s Softball League Standards,

by Rachel Spencer
York Harbor Girls’ Sport Class

PAMPHLETS
Toys and Peace .

Published by Women’s International League for

Peace and Freedom, 1734 F Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C. Price $.05.

114 ‘PVHEN READING WENT DUTCH!

Annual Report of the Moorestown, N. 1., Recreation
Commission, 1937

Annual Report of the Bureau of Recreation, Pittsburgh,
Pa., 1937

A Century of Book Publishing, by John Barnes Pratt
15th Annual Report of the Recreation Commission,
Plainfield, N. 1.

How to Run a Hobby Show (Second edition)

Published by Leisure, 683 Atlantic Avenue, Boston.
Price $.10.

The Annual Report of the Board of Recreation Com-
missioners, Summit, New Jersey, 1937

Rules Governing the Royal Game of Billiards

Brunswick—Balke—Collender Co., 623 South Wabash
Avenue, Chicago

CaggSEdith Macy—Girl Scout National Training School,

to secure volunteer leaders from the neighborhood
of the playground. Such leaders should be well
informed and familiar with the spots to be visited.
There are always incidental details to be consid-
ered such as transportation, lunches and similar
matters.

The value of these hikes cannot be overesti-
mated. In addition to their recreational and edu-
cational values, they help create a real civic con»
sciousness early in the experiences of our future
citizens.

When Reading Went Dutch!

( Continued from page 96)

at a third playground. Exhibits of handicraft
made by the children were praised by the older
people present. Finally, each Parent Playground
Association served apples, cider and pretzels for
refreshments.

Everywhere—Folk Lore

With 2,000 participants in the annual lantern
parade, the effects of the overhead theme were
noticeable. Ninety per cent .0f the lanterns were
made with Pennsylvania German motifs, including
the ever-present tulip, deer and barn insignia, the
latter being most prevalent on the barns of the
local countryside.

At the annual storytelling contest children chose
stories from folk lore books obtained through the
Reading Public Library and the Berks County
Historical Society. “The Lure of the Frontier,”
“Adventures in the Wilderness,” “Beliefs and
Superstitions of the Pennsylvania Germans,”
“The Indians of Berks County” and many others
were used.

The next to the last week of the playground
season, a camp fire program was staged on every
playground. Where playgrounds were small and
the fire hazard was great, red electric light bulbs
were used under an artificial wood pile. Songs,
square dances and stories constituted the program.

Square Dance Night

One of the interesting features of the entire,
summer was a “square dance night” in City Park. 1
Each Tuesday evening approximately one thou- -

sand children came from all sections of the city
to City Park for a folk dance festival. This cus-
tom has prevailed for a period of twenty—five

years. After the playground children had danced ‘
for an hour to the music of a professional orches- t
tra, the adults folk-danced for an hour. Needless i
to say, the old—fashioned square dances, quadrilles "

and the Virginia Reel attracted the middle—aged
citizens of the city and they had the time of their
lives. The event had great carry-over value as

many of the parents were seen square-dancing to 'l

the tunes of either a jug orchestra or a make-
shift musical group on their respective play-
grounds.

“Redding Towne”

The climax of the playground season was the
production of a folk pageant entitled “Redding
Towne.” Considerable research on the part of
the dramatic supervisor and marvelous organiza-

tion work on the part of the entire summer staff -

made the pageant an outstanding event. Five hun-
dred participants played before an audience of
5,000 in the local college stadium. The pageant
was a reproduction of what the children had

learned during the summer. It crystalized in the '
minds of the children the background of their

own locality and the summer playground theme.

Anything with a local touch of color would be.

enthusiastically received by the audience and they
applauded the efforts of the children loudly.
Scenes and events included the old tavern, the

minuet, the arrival of the stage coach and a big.

Conestoga wagon, drawn by six black horses, fid-
dlers, folk songs, a hoe down, Reading’s famous

industries, such as the process of hat making, the .'
01d charcoal cart, pioneer children’s. games, Spin?

ning, mending harness, corn husking, apple butter
making, a wedding, the old Reading Fair, a real
horse race around the track and many other inci-
dents too numerous to mention.

7 l

EDWARD A. MECHLING - 115

Edward A. Mechling

 

Moorestown, New Jersey, lost a beloved civic
leader in the death in March of Edward A.
Mechling——a citizen whose life had been devoted
to serving his fellow iman. Mr. Mechling gave
unstintingly of his time, efforts and talents in the
interest of many civic organizations. A devoted
friend to young people, he was the first chairman
of the Recreation Commission, having been elected
to that post in 1926. From March 1932, he acted
as volunteer director of recreation for the town-
ship, ancl during the past two years directed the
development of the summer program. In Septem—
ber 1925, he called the first community meeting
to consider the construction of the Community
House, which has wen for itself so important a
place in the community.

Mr. Mechling was also very active in the Boy
Scout movement. For many years he "was chair-
man of the Welfare Association Finance Com-
mittee and personally directed all its campaigns
for funds.

The summer theme reminded us that our Penn-
sylvania German ancestors were men and women
of high intelligence and genuine culture. For the
adults, it inspired them to recapture, for their own
comfort-loving generation, a larger measure of
, that sturdiness of character and resourcefulness
I of spirit that they possessed.

 

SAFETY POE
Supervised Playgrounds

jug“? of the press

A 28 page pamphlet on safety in
relation to playground administra-
tion and activity programs. Contains
sections on physical conditions; the
use of apparatus; representative
safety programs; organization of
patrols and safety clubs, games,
handcraft activities and campaigns.

Price 25 cents

SAFETY “EDUCATION
MAGAZINE

provides material for a well-round-
ed safety program based on sea-
sonal hazards. The colored posters,
graded lesson outlines, plays, stor-
ies, informational articles, accident
facts, patrol news items and other
features are prepared by school
people who are experts in the field
of safety teaching. °

Subscription - $1.00 a Year

EDUCATION DIVISION
NATIONAL SAFETY OOUNOIL

One Park Avenue

New York. N. Y.

m

116 ENLARGING THE ARTS AND CRAFTS PROGRAM

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
1’ . -
assortment of Informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checlrs. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

-Enlarging:l:he Arts and Crafts Program
( Continued from page 99,)

City last summer, a few pieces of thin copper left
over from some work of the previous season sug-
gested to one of the counselors the idea of mak-
ing dry—point etchings. In a few weeks, ten-year-
olds were scratching their own drawings direct to
the copper plates, inking industriously and study-
ing proofs to see what further shading might be
necessary. Incidentally, loud shouts of “W’here’s
our clothes wringer” coming from one cabin were
silenced when the counselor discovered that the
clothes wringer had been commandeered by the
ingenious etchers to supply the pressure for pull-
ing proofs! These etchings were not little mas-
terpieces. Then ten-year-old’s drawing of the
canoe on the lake reflected the lack of that fine
coordination which more mature fingers have.
But it also reflected the ten—year-old's freedom
from stereotyped thought, her simple acceptance
of a sharp tool, a piece of copper and ink as a
medium of expression as natural as speech or
gesture. Because of the children's matter of fact
acceptance of their work,.they were not inclined
to regard their first efforts as too important. They

had a healthy willingness to cast aside early at-
tempts and try something better.

The Democracy of Arts and Crafts

In the Girl Scout program the true democracy
of the arts and crafts welcomes all comers, env
courages each girl to feel that whatever she makes
for beauty and use with honesty, thoughtfulness
and care is a worthy contribution to daily living.
Just as no attempt is made to separate the arts
and crafts, so no attempt is made to divide the
arts and crafts from other pursuits.

In earlier days, the connection between arts,
crafts and daily living was everywhere evident.
Each home had furniture to be made, rugs to be
hooked, quiet moments for needlework or “whit-
tlin’ ”. Factory-produced goods and the pressure
of modern life have removed much of the eco-
nomic compulsion for individual creation, but they
have increased rather than removed the mental
and spiritual compulsion. Like unused muscles,
idle hands and brains cry out for activity, for by
activity we live. The urge toward creation knows
no limits of time or place; its expression is ap-
propriate everywhere. So the Girl Scouts are set-
ting up workshops in their meeting places. They
write stories and poems at camp and make tooled
leather bindings for them. They redecorate a
troop house and produce their own designs for
curtains and rugs. This is the sort of art that
does not adorn life, it is life.

In any program which is designed to cover such
a wide range both in age and in geography, local
interpretations will vary. The Girl Scouts hope
they will. So long as the basic principles are ad-
hered to, each regional variation adds new rich-
ness to the deveIOpment of the whole. Through
the arts and crafts program, girls may discover
the resources of their own country. One group
found that the clay of the river that flowed past
their camp'was suitable for certain types of pot-
tery. They experimented with it, discovered what
colors could be obtained by mixing clays, what
effects were possible using their “home-grown”
clay alone. Throughout one summer they learned
to develop the thing at hand in an extraordinary
number of ways. They looked at the familiar
countryside with new eyes—the eyes of the artist
who gazes past the surface to see the wonders
that may lie beyond.

As the Girl Scout program spreads, more and
more girls will have this opportunity to see life

MUSIC AS A PLAYGROUND ACTIVITY

fresh and new and exciting with possibilities. The
Girl Scout organization is not attempting to
prophesy too much of what the girls will do with
the possibilities at hand. Out of long experience
with youth’s eagerness to build and create, how-
ever, the organization does expect that the girls
will do more than their elders dare hope for now.
The one thing the program will never set down is
a limitation. Young artists and craftsmen have a
way of doing the impossible and creating the un-
thought-of. “Go right ahead,” say the Girl Scouts,
“That’s where the real fun lies.”

Music as a Playground Activity
(Continued from page 101)
tance, he must know music and must have a real

love and enthusiasm for it. He must have a broad
appreciation of the recreational values of the many
forms of music, including the simple as well as
the highly technical forms. He must be personally
skilled in one or more forms of musical activity
and he must be able to organize and direCt musi—
cal groups. The good leader must combine pro—
fessional expertness and good taste with the
amateur spirit and must have a great depth of
interest in people and a sympathetic understand-
ing of them.

The Purposes

And now, with this perfect leader, what are the
ends and aims of all these musical activities?
There may be any number of interests that have
prompted the organization of our groups: a
chance for social intercourse, to do what a friend
is doing; joy in the mastery of some new and dif-
ficult achievement; culture and education, and
preparation for holidays and public performances.
All of these are excellent but, of themselves, are
not enough. The finest interest to attract is the
love of music for itself and without that no musi-

cal activity will endure. The end and aim, for the.

earnest participant, is the experience of the music
itself, as music. This music is not a special talent,
given only to a few, but has a rightful place as a
part of a common, natural heritage. In order then
that our recreation program may be complete, let
us offer, to the best of our ability, this heritage of
music. On our playgrounds let us sing. play,
whistle, dance or act and if we do so successfully,
though simply, we have helped to satisfy that in-
herent need of almost everyone to create some
lovely artistic thing.

Character Magazine

for

. All who are interested in better
Character Education

V

Every successful worker in character
education, personality guidance and com-
munity organization needs the best re-
source material.

The magazine, CHARACTER, edited by J.
M. Artman, furnishes the most authorita-
tive interpretation of character education,
personality development and community
organization now published.

Articles by authorities in their fields in-
terpret the latest findings regarding the
current character standards as practiced in
everyday life; the present outlook of the
family, the church, the school as agencies
of character education; the progress in
character education of the specialized lei-
sure time agencies, such as the Y’s, Scout-

ing, Camp Fire, Boys’ Clubs, Camps, etc.

Especial attention is given to the com-
munity as a whole—the cooperation or
lack of it between the various agencies in
the community.

CHARACTER comes to you 10 times a year
(monthly—with the exception of July and
August) to help you understand and vision
your part in the greatest of all endeavors—
that of developing peOple with character
values adequate for our nation and time.

You may subscribe as follows:

1. 1 Year CHARACTER . . . . $1.50
2. "UNTYING APRON STRINGS" $1.00

3. CHARACTER. l year'and
"UNTYING APRON STRINGS" $2.00

Wat
Send your orders to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE
5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILL.

 

117

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

    

 

All About Parties

By Nina Kaye. Crown Publishers, 444 Fourth Avenue,
New York. $1.00.

PARTIES or ALL KINDS are outlined in this modern party
book—parties for holidays and other occasions, show-
ers' and anniversary parties, bees and hunts. There are
ice—breakers, square dances, writing and table games,
stunts and brain twisters. And when it comes to refresh-
ments there are recipes galore; nor is party etiquette
neglected for there is a section on this subject!

American Planning and Civic Annual

Edited by Harlean James. American Planning and
Civic Association, 901 Union Trust Building, Wash-
ington, D. C. $3.00.

EACH YEAR THE American Planning and Civic Associa-

tion presents a bird’s-eye view of recent civic ad-
vance. The 1937 edition includes the papers read at the

National Planning Conference held in Detroit, June 1 to

3, 1937, and selected papers from the Regional State Park

Conferences at San Francisco, September 1 to 3, 1936;

St. Louis, November 13 to 15, 1936, and from the Na-

tional Conference on State Parks at Swarthmore, Penn-

sylvania, June 10 to 12, 1937.

Books for Home Reading

Prepared for the National Council of Teachers of Eng—
lish by its Committee on Recreational Reading. Na—

tional Council of Teachers of English, 211 West 68th

Street, Chicago, Ill. 20¢.

HIS WELL-KNOWN high school reading list now ap-

pears in an entirely new edition, not only brought up
to date but considerably enlarged and improved. Every
title has been annotated and twelve classifications have
been added. Among the new subject divisions are Avia-
tion, Discovery and Exploration, Etiquette, History,
Hobbies, Music, Nature, Science, Sports, Theater and
Vocations.

Recreation Kits

Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. 25¢
each.
UMBER 42 of the Kit contains a significant address on
Youth and Leisure by Eduard C. Lindeman, re-
printed from the Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science. There is also a discussion
of badminton with condensed rules for playing the game.
Number 43, the most recent issue of the Kit, presents
the folk plays from the Southern Mountains, produced
at the John C. Campbell Folk School, Brasstown, North
Carolina. They are “The Old Woman and the Peddler,”
“Get Up and Bar the Door,” and “Haste to the Wedding.”

118

Drawing for Fun

By Walter W'illoughby. Leisure League of America,
New York City. $.25.
"THE IDEA THAT drawing is difficult,” says Mr. Wil-
loughby in this practical and attractive booklet, “is
purely a mental hazard,” and he proceeds to tell his read-
ers, simply and clearly, about working material and tech-
niques. Information is given on perspective, action
drawing, composition and many other matters. of inter-
est to the beginning artist.

Swimming and Diving

By William W. Rodgers. Service Booklet No. 163. The
Washington Information Bureau, 1013 Thirteenth St.,
N. VV., \Vashington, D. C. $.10.

RECREATION WORKERS will find much practical informa—

tion in this illustrated compendium on the art of
swimming and diving which also contains a chapter on

life saving.

A Source Book of Water Pageantry

By Katharine Whitney Curtis, B. S., M. A. The College
Press, 2224 Van Buren Street, Chicago, Ill. $1.75.

ANY BOOKS, states the author in her preface, have

been written on‘ methods and techniques of teaching
swimming. There has long been a need, however, for a
source book of material adaptable for use in a swim-
ming program. This book has been written for use by
those who are interested in the grace and rhythm of
swimming. It contains five completed water pageants,
almost fifty water pageant plots, and a number of stunts,
races and games. A chapter is devoted to figure swim-
ming and figure fioating, and there is an interesting sec-
tion on sea mythology.

Enriched Community Living.

An Approach to Art and Music
in Adult Education

Published by Division of Adult Education, Delaware
State Department of Public Instruction, Wilmington,
Delaware. Studies directed by Marguerite Hill Bur-
nett, State Director of Adult Education; L. Thomas
Hopkins, Associate Professor of Education, Teachers
College, Columbia University. $1.00—paper bound;
$1.50—cloth bound.

HIS BOOK is the report of the cooperative efforts of
leaders of adult education groups in the State of
Delaware. These leaders in art and music, in an at-
tempt to evaluate critically their aims and procedures.
made concrete records of their work as a basis for further
study and appraisal. These experiences in the field of
music and art are designed to serve as illustrations of

the general way of rworking with a community. One de-

NELV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 119

scribed the first attempts at community music; another,
the development of a school at the cross roads; another,
music in a company mill town; a fourth, music in an
urban community. These are all fascinating reading for
those who are interested in community development.

The results produced by these efforts in music and art
are significant. In several grOLips pe0ple of small towns
were led to forget themselves and their limitations. They
came to appreciate one another. They worked their way
through the activities of the group into community or-
ganization and improvement. The old-fashioned singing
school, holding its sessions in a one-room schoolhouse.
had all the flavor of pioneer days in America. Creative
activity in needlecraft released artistic gifts among groups
of women whose lives would otherwise have been drab.
A Polish group, enacting an old world Christmas play as
their contribution to the Festival of Christmas in Many
Lands, established the group in more friendly relations
to the community and stimulated others to creative ac-
tivity in music.

The significant thing about these experiments lies in
the fact that they were followed through «by the adult
education movement for periods of two, three, four, five'
and six years. Communities do not change over night
but by careful planning and with careful supervision over
a period of time permanent results can be achieved.

Creative Handicrafts.

By Mabel Reagh Hutchins. Leisure League of
America, New York City. v

Pottery, weaving, basketry, metalcraft, leathercraft,
bookbinding, ublockprinting, and the art of dyeing are de-
scribed in this booklet, which contains many diagrams to
aid the beginning craftsman. The descriptions for each
craft are simple, and clear, and the booklet has much to
offer the craft worker.

Making Pictures with the Miniature Camera. -

By Jacob Deschin. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

The miniature camera has introduced new methods of
making pictures which are often quite different from
those used with ordinary cameras. The author of this
book has provided the amateur camera fan with all the
information essential in taking pictures with the minia-
ture camera and making the finished print. The last sec-
tion of the book comprises forty-seven actual photo-
graphs reproduced in half-tone which demonstrate the
possibilities within the range of the miniature camera
hobbyist.

Youth Education Today.

American Association of School Administrators,
1201 Sixteenth St., N. \N., Washington, D. C. $2.00.

The sixteenth yearbook of the American Association of
School Administrators, prepared by the Commission on
Youth Problems of the Association, presents a study of
the youth of today in perspective, encompassing those
areas and agencies which affect most vitally their wel—
fare and happiness as participants in a desirable and
progressing democratic society. A chapter of special in-
terest to recreation workers is that devoted to “Educa—
tion for Leisure” in which such topics are discussed as
leisure time goals of American life, problems in leisure
education, activities for youth beyond school age, c00per-
ation with the home, community use of school facilities,
and coordinating community leisure time resources.

The Parents’ Bookshelf.

American Library Association, Chicago, Illinois. Per.

100, $1.75.

Study groups seeking a guide to the literature on child
training will be glad to know that the sixth edition of
The Parents’ Booksher has been issued by the American
Library Association. In this ten page leaflet appear
nearly sixty books and a score of pamphlets on the pre—
school child, the intermediate, the adolescent, and on

special topics selected by Dr. Ada Hart Arlltt tor the
National Congress of Parents and Teachers. There is a
special selection of publications on the subject of chil-
dren’s reading prepared by Mildred L. Batchelder of the
American Library Association’s School and Children’s
Library Division. ‘

The Outdoor Book.

By Gladys Snyder and C. Frances Loomis. Book
Number Eight of the Library of the Seven Crafts of
the Camp Fire Girls. Camp Fire Outfitting Com-
pany, New York. $.50.

Everyone who loves the out of doors will find this book
enjoyable and useful. And its usefulness is by no means
limited to the Camp Fire Girls for whom it is written.
It is” an exceedingly practical booklet for all groups that
adventure out of doors.

Recreation in Church and Community.

Edited by Warren T. Powell. The Abingdon Press,
New York City. $.75.

Previous publications dealing with church recreation
have been primarily a compilation of activities for the
church group. This little volume is a more ambitious
attempt to present the phiIOSOphy of recreation in rela-
tion to church programs and organization. The status of
recreation, character and objectives of recreation, prin-
ciples of program construction, types of programs, play
leadership and measuring the results are the major sub-
jects of consideration. The authors contend that there
are wide-Open opportunities for real Christian leadership
in the area of play and recreation. This rich field of ser-
vice has not been squarely faced by the Christian church,
which has either toyed with it or completely ignored it.
Recreational activities, say the authors, may constitute a
Christian influence of great value. The church’s ministry
must be physical, mental and social, as well as spiritual,
if the institution is to contribute to well-rounded per-
sonal development. “The church must do its part in cities
in furnishing recreational activities and in infiuencing the
general tenor of leisure time activity programs.”

This volume is not a handbook of activities but should
be used very effectively by those who want to impress
upon church communities and leaders the necessity for
adequate recreational facilities not only within the church

but in the community as well.

Man at Work: His Arts and Crafts.
By Harold Rugg and Louise Krueger.
Company, New York City. $1.28.,

This is the seventh volume in the Rugg and Krueger
Social Science Course for elementary schools. It IS 1n-
tended for use in the first half of the sixth grade but

Ginn and

- may be used in higher grades if desired. While prepared

as a textbook for children, it contains 550 pages of type
and pictures full of interest from beginning to end. The
wide variety of material includes architecture, the thea-
ter, language, number and measurement, and time. It
uses an imaginary trip to see the arts and crafts of a
community as a means of deveIOping a background of
familiarity for the pupil. There is planned repetition to
emphasize basic concepts and clarify the pupil’s learning.
The wealthof illustrations showing the arts and crafts
of people from primitive tribes to the highest civiliza—
tions are of special interest. In a recreation library, thlS
book would be very helpful to teachers of arts and crafts,
not from a technical point of view but in arousing inter-
est on the part of pupils and giving them a broad back-
ground for the specific types of work which they may

undertake.

First Steps in Weaving.
By Ella Victoria Dobbs, B.S.. A.M. The Macmillan
Company, New York City. $1.00.

This book is intended for the beginner who wants to
gain practical experience 111 the fascinating processes of

120 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

weaving but who knows nothing of its terms, tools or
procedures. For this reason nothing is assumed, and the
author has presented the fundamental steps in plain and
simple terms. Diagrams and photographs accompany the
directions.

We Americans.

By Elin L. Anderson. Harvard University Press,
Cambridge, Mass. $3.00.

What happens in a conservative state of New England
when groups with different ethnic and religious origins
and cultures live together and call, themselves Ameri-
cans? Elin L. Anders-on has made a careful survey of
Burlington, Vermont, to try to answer this question. She
finds that the melting pot idea has not proved success—
ful. In spite of long residence together, English stock,
French Canadians, Irish and Jewish are still separate
communities with very little in common. By preserving
their national identities, however, certain cultural values
are retained which would otherwise be lost by a general
identification with the common life of the city.

Recreation executives ,interested in the study of the
various racial communities in their cities would find this
book helpful in understanding some of the rigidities of
community life.

The Program Volunteer in the Y.W.C.A.

By Jeanette Dutchess. Wom-ans Press, New York
City.

This pamphlet is based on a study of eighty-four Y.
W.C.A’s. and answers to questionnaires filled out by 400
program volunteers. Emphasis is laid in this document
on qualifications of volunteer workers, the minimum es-
sentials being: 1. Interest in and capacity to adapt to the
group with which she is to work; 2. Ability to carry
through a particular project or part of the program.
Recruiting of the program volunteer is the joint responsi-
bility of both the committee member and the staff
member.

Before presenting a project to volunteers a careful
analysis should be made of the work to be done and its
relation to the program of a department or to the pro—
gram of the whole association should be clarified. Suf—
ficient time should always be allowed for satisfactory re-
cruiting. Hurried recruiting at the last minute usually
results in failing to find the right person for the job.

Considerable space is given in the book to the prepara-
tion of the program for volunteers and their training
and supervision.

Finger Painting As a Hobby.

By Stephen D. Thach. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $1.75.

This book discusses finger painting as a technique. It
tells how it originated and describes with simple detail
the process used. It tells what materials to secure, the
procedure to follow in applying finger paints, and gives
practical suggestions for securing the desired effects. It
also shows how to advance from simple designs to com-
plicated portraits. Diagrams and photographs are included.

The Book of Wild Pets.

By Clifford B. Moore. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New
York. $5.00.

Whether you are a freckle-faced boy returning from
the woods with a frog in your pocket and a can full of
water “bugs,” the proud catcher of a fox in a catch-
alive trap, the finder of a wounded bird or just plain
anybody, this book is an excellent one to have “up your
sleeve.” For when you want to “bring ’em back alive”
this book will tell you how to catch and collect common
wild animals, how to build terraria, aquaria, cages and
houses for them, how and what to feed each kind and

how diseases and wounds must be cared for. Common
water and land insects, spiders, fish, marine animals,
mammals (from field mice to monkeys and bears) and
bll'dS are among the. animals considered. The 300 pic-
tures and diagrams, the simple non-technical style and

the usable authoritative nature of the book make you
want to start a miniature zoo at once.

Fundamentals Of Foil Fencing.

By Joseph Vince. Joseph Vince, Publisher, 202 East
44th Street, New York. $1.00.

This small volume, prepared definitely for the beginner
fencer, is concise and well organized. Mr. Vince defines
all the terms as he uses them. Not the least effective of
the devices utilized to present the subjects are the ex-
cellent illustrations by Cornel Wilde. The book can be
used not only in learning to fence but also as a source
book for positions and definitions.

Handbook on Athletics.

Public Schools of Baltimore, Maryland. $.25.

This booklet outlines the objectives of the athletic pro-
gram of the Baltimore schools, gives a brief history of
the development of the program in the secondary schools,
offers past records of individual and team contests, and
gives the rules governing competition and sports.

Around the World Almanac in Eighty Questions.

Prepared by Carter Alexander. Carter Alexander,
Publisher, 525 West 120th Street, New York. $.10.

You can make a game of answering questions and ac-
quiring information in an interesting way through the use
of this pamphlet containing eighty questions. The pur-
suit of information which this offers can be made to
have all the interest of a treasure hunt!

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEv, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT'GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. COREET‘r, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New YOrk, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City,‘ Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WAnswoR'rH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

