Measure - Measure - Measure

Measure of human happiness,

Measure of human despair,

Measure of character growth by the hour, day and week,
Measure here and measure there.

Measure of mother love,

Measure the mother’s joy in her first unborn babe,

Measure of what mother is and does,

Measure of “atmosphere” in the home,

Measure of human distance between white and colored, Jew and Christian.

Measure, measure, measure.
Technique, technique, technique.

Death and death and death
\Vhen there should be life and lift.

lVIeasure Mona Lisa,
lVIeasure with a slide rule the Sermon on the Mount.

God forbid.

Measure what a painting does to you,
Measure the sunset,
Measure the Toscanini concert stretching your soul.

Keep records of Jesus on the boat with Peter—just what happened to Peter hour by hour.
Keep records of your own children in the home, prayer after prayer.

Record every bad deed and how good they become,

What the “group” did to each child.

When 0 when will we learn that the human soul is not a bit of matter to be measured hourly
and hourly recorded!

What crimes we commit in the name of science!

How easy to blaspheme against the spirit of man and try to take over God’s work and become
gods ourselves.

We talk of case work and wonder why we are so misunderstood.

We make the social worker a little lower than the banker.

We use cold words for‘warm human life.

We use long words and big when words little and simple would go straight home.
We make our phrases so involved we cannot tell ourselves what we meant.
And the trouble is we think of ourselves and our own importance

Instead of thinking of the men and women and children we serve.

When with our techniques and our mechanisms and our cold terms we have turned beauty into
ugliness —-

We wonder why the best youth are not attracted to work for the better way for the children of
the earth.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

DECEMBER, I938

 

489

is?

.‘I

 

 w; 1%: g
.3»... if“ 

u."

Courtesy Essex Comity, New Jersey, Park Commtssiq"

"A whi+e snowy world summons young and old win+er call forl'h a hos+ of arden’r devo’rees—
+0 invigora’ring play. The brillian’r win’rer sun- a happy lhrong on ska’res. skis and snowshoes.
shine +ransforms +he ice fields in+o 'acres in +oboggans. sleighs and on swift-speeding
of gliHering iewels.' Where snow falls and sleds! A Merry Win’rer +o All!" From "Win’rer
wa+er freezes. +he varied spor+s and games of Ac+ivi+ies." issued by Chicago Park Dis’rric’r.

490 I

What Do Americans Need?

there was one thing that was always said to

every class that got out to face the world.
It was this: “There is absolutely no limit to what
you can do. There is absolutely no limit to what
your country is going to do. Every one of you
can make a fortune and be a great success.”

That point of view has lasted in the United
States from 1790, and perhaps from 1630, until
now. It is the pioneer philosophy. The main tenet
of that philosophy is just this: There is no limit
to human growth, or. to the growth of man’s
power to create material things, because there is
no limit to the value of material things to add to
human happiness and welfare.

It was by that same theory of life that human
thought has been dominated from the time of the
erection of the hrst great pyramid at Gizeh, some
six thousand years ago, down to the opening of
the Great War. Our country was built, and all
that we have here—this ballroom, the City of
Pittsburgh, the City of New York—were created
on that philosophy, and we had every reason to
believe for all those years that it was true.

The only people who fought that philosophy
were preachers and poets, a few lone men buck-
ing the tide, men like Henry Thoreau. And Henry
Thoreau for his generation was wrong, because in
his lifetime, seventy or eighty years ago, there
was no limit on human possibilities. There was no
limit on what the world could do to create ma-
terial things and to get use out of material things,
because the world was poor in material things and
had always been poor in them, save for one very
brief period at the height of the Roman Empire.

Today that is not true. Today something that
has been true for six thousand years is no longer
valid for men, because that reaching out, that ex-
panding, which has extended to every avenue of
the human spirit, to every possibility of the human
hand, has attained its material goal. Boys of
twenty and younger, and girls of twenty and
younger, know all this better than their parents
do, because the parents of this generation, and
even people of your ages, were brought up in a
world which is different from the present world.

Something has happened in our lifetime that
had not happened in six thousand years. Now, if
i begin to say to you that we are not going to

WHEN I WAS GRADUATED from high school,

By ROY HELTON

Mr. HeltonI authorI lecturer. and mem-
ber of the State Planning Association
of the State of Pennsylvania' speaking
at the Recreation Congress at Pitts-
burghl urged upon recreation workers
the necessity for seeking new goals and

new services. "Artl sciencel adventurel
health and fun." he said' "these are

the human needs to which all of you
here have dedicated your lives."

grow any more, I will not be telling the truth,
because we are bound to grow. it I should try to
say to you that America has reached the limit of
its possibilities, I would be telling a lie, because
America is almost at the hour of the beginning of
its possibilities, and yet something that I am trying
to tell you is true.

When we began as a nation, there was one great
need in this country—space. The westward move-
ment of migration that started out from the east-
ern cities, from Jamestown and St. Mary’s, from
Philadelphia and Plymouth, moved on and on,
reaching forth in every direction, but mainly
iighting for that great road to the West. “Give
us land!” That was the cry of America, voiced
by all our earlier pioneers. We needed to make a
nation on this earth, and we had to have an ade-
quate scope of earth to make a nation. That tide
which started so slowly and seeped so painfully
westward, took on great impulse with the Louis-
iana Purchase and with the acquisition of Texas,
but had to end.

A time came, and it came in the administration
of President McKinley, after we had acquired the
Philippines and Puerto Rico, when the American
people knew that they had enough land. They had
those scattered islands to the west to defend their
shores, and they had a solid America from coast
to coast.

Then that kind of growth had to end, or we
had to become a party in the struggle for imperial
domination of the world, and, realizing that crisis
the American people decided then and there that

491

492 WHAT DO AMERICANS NEED ?

their limit had come, and that they would accept
that limit and live within their own boundaries.
That was the first check on our expansion.

The second growth was in people. We had a
vast continent, thinly populated, and our great cry
for nearly fifty years was for growth in men.
With that growth went the growth in the railroads
that made possible the conquest and the settlement
of the great plains, the transportation of food East,
and the transportation of manufactures West.

You know very well how even in your own
early memories growth was the big thing in our
national life. Every American college wanted to
be bigger and bigger; every American town
wanted to be another New York. Boosters asso-
ciations were out for that one thing, and we down
in the State Planning Board in Pennsylvania know
how bad a job that did for us, when we realize the
terrific shambles that has
made of the American city

cepted a limitation on growth, and that one coun-
try is Germany; and that one Mediterranean
country which has not accepted a limitation on
growth is Italy.

W] hat produced the World War? A sense that
this philosophy of growth was reaching a limit, a
conviction on the part of Central European peoples
that they could not go on growing the way they
wanted to grow any longer, and a violent rebellion
at that reality.

What has produced this terrible destruction in
China? The fact that one country in the Orient
has not accepted any limitation on the possibility
of human growth. It wants to go on; it wants to
expand; it wants to dominate the Pacific and to
dominate Asia.

Now, that impulse, at its extreme, in countries
that are still lighting to expand, and so are threat-
ening our civilization with a
final and utter collapse, in

life, that unrestrained, head—
long growth that came to us
before we knew how to
handle it.

Now that growth also is
ending; the increase in popu-
lation of the United States
has gone down to about IO
per cent a decade. It had
held at 40 per cent for
nearly two hundred years.

"None can say there are no more challeng-
ing tasks in the world. no more frontiers
to be conquered. In most respects the ma-
terial world has been masteredI but the
world of man opens before us like a great
wilderness which holds within its unex-
plored depths the secret of man's nature
and his needs. . . . Today is a pioneer age
in a new sense. The call for leaders with
courage. understanding and determina-
tion rings throughout the world and fires
those who have vision with a new enthu-
siasm to meet the challenge."—Helen A.
Prendergast in The Library Journal.

America has also reached a
limit, and, thank God, We
are accepting that limitation
—not easily, and even with
pain, with struggle, and with
a sense of frustration.

But why has this limita-
tion been reached so soon?
Because in America, as in
Europe, through the inven-
tion of machinery, through

It' had then gone down
slowly to 25 per cent and
then to 15 per cent, and now it is going on down.
So in Pittsburgh, and so in New York, and so
also in Philadelphia. '

As a people we have decided that growth in men
is not of itself all we are in this world to achieve,
and in that decision we are not accepting defeat.
A young man does not feel defeated when you
tell him that he is not going to grow any taller.
He realizes that after his physical growth ends
comes the time when his life is really beginning.

\Vhen I first said these things, people were
shocked at the thought of our growth ever ending.
But growth is not ending when physical growth
has to pause. That is the time when a real growth
can begin.

This is not a phenomenon that is peculiar to
America. It was manifest {irst of all, perhaps, in
France. It spread from France to England, and
thence to Holland and Scandinavia, so that only
one country in Central Europe has not now ac-

the discovery of oil and of
coal deposits, it was possi-
ble for man, within sixty years, to utilize the
resources of five or six million years of earth’s
history in his effort to conquer the earth. And
that is why, now in our lifetime, this thing has
happened. _

A year or two ago we were using a billion bar—
rels of petroleum. We were producing in America
60 per cent of the world’s supply. Petroleum had
been manufactured by the chemistry of millions
of years. We have burned it up in one generation.
We have gone on at that rate, using all the riches
of geologic history, in our battle to solve those
simple, fundamental problems that confronted
mankind for so long, the problems of shelter and
clothing and food. By the use of those resources,
not only we but all the peoples of Europe have
solved their problems, have conquered the earth,
and that conquest is the end of the pioneer phi~
losophy. The pioneer philosophy is a philosophy
of growth, of ruthless, unending growth; and

 

WHAT DO AMERICANS NEED .9 493

ruthless, unending growth in a settled civilization
cannot be endured by the capacities of men.

Now, I am not going to go into statistics; I
have no time to do that. But I can point out to
you a few very simple facts that illustrate what I
have been saying. One I got from Frank Lorimer.
in Washington, last week. One-half of all the
farmers of the United States now produce 89 per
cent of all the food.

That means that if half of all the farmers work
a little harder, the other half can sit down and do
nothing, and we can still be well fed in the United
States.

That is due to the invention of the machine, to
the use of . gasoline, and to the motor tractor,
which have enabled us with a constantly diminish—
ing manpower to feed not only the United States,
but many other parts of the earth. That is one of
the facts that we have now got to face.

The rate of increase of the registration of auto-
mobiles in the United States is diminishing to one
tenth of what it was in 1916. The mileage of the
American railroads is going down. There are too
many railroads, and we know there are too many
railroads.

The total product of all the American manu-
facturers is describing a flattening curve, like that
of our population. Are there discouraging truths?
Let us consider a minute._

Supposing our progress” should go on in the old—
time way. Suppose we proceed to manufacture,
every decade, 60 per cent more than we did the
decade before, which is the historical basis on
which our philosophy is founded. In twenty years,
each one of us would be consuming two and one-
half times as much as we are consuming now. By
the end of the century we would have to be con-
suming sixteen times as much. We would have to

turn ourselves
into a nation of
robots, not to
make things but
to use them.

Now, here is
the whole point
of this economic
argument: With
the help of the
machine, a man
can make enough
for two men to
consume. But
there is no ma-

chine that has yet been invented that will help a
man to consume twice as much as he ordinarily
could. Machinery is all on the side of production,
not of consumption.

So finally, we have reached the point—I don’t
say for everybody, because that" is not true—but
for the great mass of our people—where this dis-
parity between the power of the machine to en-
able the man to produce more and more, and the
poor, human limitations of our one hundred and
fifty pounds of meat to consume these things, have
locked horns and we cannot go on with that battle
any longer.

What are we going to do about it? You can
grow wheat, but you cannot make me eat wheat.
You can produce more and more beef, but you
can make me eat only a certain amount of the
stuff, and you can pour steel, but I do not need
more steel. And that is what men are saying now.
That is what they are registering now in their
conduct. They are refusing to buy as much as is
produced.

Every man, woman and child in the United
States is responsible for some seven hundred
pounds of steel, and four hundred pounds of pig
iron every year. How much more do we need than
that? I do not know. But there is a limit to how
much more we need than that, and that limit is
being reached, and that fact is registered in the
ngres of production and consumption.

It comes down to this: Would you rather have
a new town car, or would you rather have a good
long trip in the old one? That is the dilemma that
is confronting man right now. We can go on buy-
ing more things, and we can go on making more

"What do men need? Men need to
create things with their hands."

 

Courtesy Works Progress Administration

494 WHAT DO AMERICANS NEED?

things, but if we do we cannot have any surplus
left to use those things; we cannot get the enjoy-
ment out of them that they were intended for.
More life or more things—that is our problem.

Despair, violence and confusion have come to
the world because of this dilemma. In 1929 we
became the laboratory in which the powers of in-
dustrialism to create were measured against the
power of man to consume. Those years were not
good years. They were prosperous. We all could
buy silk shirts then if we wanted to, but they were
years of moral and social confusion; they were
years when the heart failure mortality went higher
and higher, and the pace of life became faster and
faster, and they were years that broke down for
the young of a whole generation all those values
that had been built up in this country for two
hundred years.

Now, what is the answer to our economic and
social problems? 13 the answer that after we have
used a car for six months or a year we must junk
it and buy a new car? That is the answer of
waste. When one man who is making enough for
two to consume, must we also put the other man
to work making enough for two more to consume?

Shall we take the produce of both of those men
and throw it away half used? Well, there is some-
thing in the American temperament that recoils
from that answer. We are realists. We believe
in the use and value of human labor, and we do
not want to see'human labor thrown away. At-
tempts to lead us into that kind of waste by great
manufacturers through their phi1050phies of re-
placement have failed to take hold of the Ameri-
can people.

They cannot believe that it is right that when a
thing is still good, to have to discard it in order to
keep on producing more things of the same kind.
And that is the meaning of that process of prema-
ture replacement. The end of the philosophy of
waste is in the one kind of waste that will keep
the industrial machine surely going. That end is
war, because war is the only kind of destruction
that operates rapidly enough to provide an outlet
for all our possible productive capacity.

We know already by what happened from 1920
to 1930 that that is the way
of self-destruction.

Distribution is another an-
swer and one that is right and
necessary ; but distribution is
a hard, mature problem, and
it is not a boom problem. To

"In the end this is the real inventory
of a man and his life: Not. how muchI
but how well. Not how many years but
what he poured into them and how much
in spiritual content they gave him in
return." — Gabriel Heatter in Faith.

get goods into the hands of those who need the
goods without destroying the enterprise and ini-
tiative of our people is a job that our government
has attempted and has gone on with, but it is not
a job that can be done in a hurry, and it is not a
job that will push us into the ascending spiral of
a great boom.

Will new industries help us out? Well, what do
most of our new products attempt to do, products
like the airplane? What are they really but new
devices for saving time? And what does an ex-
cess of man—power in the United States mean but
that we have too much time?

Last year we killed thirty-six thousand people
and injured a million more, hurrying along our
roads trying to save time.

Yet people with time on their hands are in
every street and in every village. Is there any
sense in that? It is a kind of razzle-dazzle that
makes reason doubt its own validity.

What is the answer? \Vhy do we want to save
time? Well, the answer for that is with you. Why
We want to save time is because we do not yet
know what time is for and we do not yet know
what life is for. I ask you again, I put this one
problem before you: When one man can make
enough for two, what are we going to do with the
other man? That is the problem of modern civi-
lization. You can throw him onto a battlefield and
get rid of him that way. Or can we find another
use for his time?

We should be glad that we have solved the
problem of making enough things for human use.
Under that old philosophy man had to struggle
for food, shelter and clothes, for fuel and trans-
portation. Now, if .he wants to use those things,
if he knows how to get them into circulation, he
has them ready to his hand. And that was never
true before in human history.

Those goals have at last been attained. They
were the kind of goals that can be attained. But
what is there left? What do men need? Men need
love; men need happiness. Men need joy, adven—-
ture, fun. Men need to satisfy their curiosity
through the pursuit of science. Men need to create
things with their hands.

Back in the Stone Age, be-
fore any human problem had
been solved, men were paint-
ing pictures on the walls of
remote caverns and were
making things with their
crude tools, struggling to use

WHAT DO AMERICANS NEED .9 495

that power of creation that is in us all. Now those
are the things that we have left over. Those are
the goals that can never be fully attained. They
are the rest of human history. _

Art, science, adventure, health and fun. That is
all of the illimitable future for man. Those are
the human needs, and those are the needs, as I see
it, to which all you who are here have dedicated
your lives, and there is the basis of the future oc-
cupation of half our people, because half of the
people in the United States, those who are not
engaged in agriculture and are not engaged in
manufacture, are available for that use. The arts
and the sciences of our helping each other could
now occupy half of the energies of man and, in
the future, with the advancement of science, can
occupy two-thirds and even three-fourths of those
energies. That is where you come in, for you are
the pioneers in that field.

I see you instinctively following what seems to
me the true path, with your program for more
recreation grounds, for more forests, for more
wild life, for more of all the things that we have
cast aside in this once necessary struggle to
conquer Nature.

You are the ones preserving those things and
restoring them to human use and satisfaction,
those crafts that have been forgotten and cast
aside for machine-made things, and had to be, for
a while, but now have to be no longer.

Your business is to preserve the pioneer virtues
of independence and physical hardihood and
strength, and to fight the pioneer vices, for those
pioneer vices are still hanging on. and are the
things that endanger the peace and the welfare of
the world. They are bigotry, suspicion, belliger—
ence and callousness. I have 'lived among pioneer
people, and -I know that they are good and bad.
I know how hard they are, and I know how
strong they are. I know how independent they
are and I know how little they care for a stranger,
and how willing they are to light about nothing.

You can see how those pioneer vices still work
in Germany and Japan. You see them everywhere
where the passion of growth is meeting with a
set-back.

Now, it seems to me that the business of recre-
ation in the United States, taking recreation in the
broadest sense, is to maintain those qualities that
enabled us to conquer America, and thatéenabled
us to make these machines which I commend and

am all for, without softness following our change
of pace.

 

Courtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Pa.

"Art. science, adventureI health and fun"—
all fundamental needs of the human spirit

You have to take up the change of pace. You
have to show people what to do with their lives
and show them that their lives cannot go on into
a mad, competitive struggle to make more and
more of material things. I do not believe anything
is so great a contribution to the peace of the world
as this thing you are trying to do.

If we have in the United States thirty million
healthy young men and women who are strong
and yet hate war, that is an argument that any
dictator or any aggressor'will listen to, and there is
no other argument that will be so quickly heeded.

That is not all of it. Guiding healthy young
bodies to healthy maturity is the primary purpose
of recreation. But look at what is now happening.
Our birth rate is going down. It reached its peak,
which the census authorities believe may be the
all—time peak for the United States, in the early
20s’, a little over a decade ago. That age group

which contains the largest element of our popula—
(Contimted on page 532)

What They Say About Recreation

” HAT DO MEN NEED? Men need love. Men
W need happiness. Men need joy, adventure.

fun. Men need to satisfy their curiosity
through the pursuit of science. Men need to
create things with their hands. . . . Art, science,
adventure, health and fun. That is all of the il-
limitable future for man. Those are the human
needs, and those are the needs to which recrea—
tion workers have dedicated their lives.”

—Roy Helton.

 

 

“A playground or park is not in general a
profit—making activity. It is a recapture job. We
are taking back, at large expense and by the cre—
ation of more debt, a piece of God’s green earth
which we squandered some years ago.” A. A.
Berle, City Chamberlain, New York City, in N a-

tional Municipal Review.

“Leisure is yours if you want it! The real
question is, is it worth planning for? Is it worth
training for, not as something which you can,
shortly, in some clever way, cash so as to increase
your material income, but as a new attitude to-
ward life which will very greatly increase your
own personal happiness and consequently your
usefulness.”——Frauk H. Cheley, in Investing Lei-

sure Time.

“Recreation calls for an early start and no stops.
You will miss many values of recreation if you do
not learn to use leisure time when you are young.
Interest yourself in sports that you can always
engage in. . . . Become a person trained in the lore
of the outdoor life. Learn the line art of reading,
which opens windows upon endless vistas of
beauty. Build up hobbies which help you to keep
on learning. . . . Finally, never stop educating
yourself by better use of your leisure time. . . .
Leisure offers the gateway to an interesting, vivid

life, but you must open it by choosing your recre—
ation wisely.”—-From Our Times, February, I,

1936.

“It will not do to say that play and religion are
alien. As in music and in art so in religion, the
loveliest things have come from that margin over
and above bare necessity where men have been
religious not because they felt they must but be-
cause they loved to be.”——Harry Emerson Fosdick.

496

“No program is so important that it can’t be
changed to meet a human need. There is a rich
fellowship and no sacrifice in doing the thing one
wants most to do. Happy are we who are ,dedi-
cated to making a way of life. Our service will
go on until it means the enrichment of life for all
men. Happy are you who with the new methods,
new machinery, can carry on into new times to-
ward a new way of life for all the people.”—
Harriet E. Vittum, Northwestern University Set—
tlement, Chicago.

“The words play, education, leisure are the
names of a great opportunity for awakening the
dormant creativeness of human beings which
other circumstances of their present lot are tend—
ing to suppress, and which education has hither-
to neglected.”—-From Public Education Bulletin,
Pennsylvania.

“The folk arts are the very expression of our
efforts to understand, to give voice to the beauty
and pathos and joy of life. Here in America the
folk arts have never assumed a part in our life
comparable to the role they have played in the
lives of the peoples by whom our country was set—
tled. We have missed much of the spontaneous
poetry of motion and music which in other lands
has found expression in the festivals that mark
the unfolding of the seasons and the mysteries of
life and death. Perhaps our'newer Americans
will help us to make up for that loss.”—fohu H.

Finley in Polk News.

“Leisure is an affair of mood and atmosphere
rather than simply of the clock. It is not chrono—
logical occurrence, but a spiritual state. It is un—
hurried, pleasureable living among one’s native
enthusiaSms.”—Irztrin Edman.

“The playground is an excellent laboratory in
which to test the value of the new educational
method; although not as controlled as the school,
the response of children is more natural and genu—
ine. Most important of all educational concepts is
perhaps respect for the personality of the child.
If in the zeal for ‘putting on programs’ the grace
of hospitality and the courtesy of fine human re—
lationships are absent, no finished performance
can compensate for the loss.”—Ph0ebe H. V alen-
tine in A Review of Two Philanthropic Trusts.

l
|

Christmas

T IS NEVER possible to give
I a complete picture of Christ-

mas as it is celebrated by
recreation departments
throughout the country for
these celebrations take so
many and such varied forms,
ranging as they do from sim—
ple parties and puppet shows
to elaborate pageants, that any
description of them cannot fail
to omit many interesting
features.

Christmas in 1937! Before
us passes a procession of
brightly lighted Christmas
trees on playgrounds and in
village greens, in parks and in
market places of great cities;
of groups of caroling children
and adults, and of Santa
Clauses by the hundreds dis—
tributing toys and good cheer!

Operettas, pageants, plays, choruses, gay par—
ties, puppet shows—they are all in the picture of
America’s Christmas celebration.

Christmas Toys

More earnestly than ever recreation depart—
ments and other recreational groups are seeking
through Christmas workshops and toy rehabili—
tation centers to see to it that no child shall be
without toys at Christmas. Through WPA and
NYA, as well as through recreation departments,
many thousands of old toys each year are
being collected, repaired and distributed by local
agencies.

Last year isolated children in the mountainous
regions of Kentucky, some of whom had never
seen a Christmas card, received reconditioned
cards transported by horseback by WPA work—
ers. Counterpane toys—small soft dolls and toy
animals easily handled in bed—were made in
Milwaukee and other cities and sent to crippled
and bedridden children in hospitals. Ten disabled
war veterans on a WPA toy project in Brockton,
Massachusetts, renovated seven thousand toys. In
seventeen cities WPA toy repair shops last year

 

Everywhere!

Christmas. the day that all of
us love, is the most festive sea-
son of the year, symbolizing as
it doesI light, warmth. and good
will. So much that is fine and
beautiful has been passed on
to us through the inspiration of
this cherished holiday. A rich
heritage of customs and folk-
waysl legends and lore. carols
and madrigals is ours to pre—
serve. Colorful tolkways have.
down through the centuries,
perpetuated these traditions.
Ours is the trust to keep alive
and make increasingly vivid these
glorious customs of the ages!

employed workers skilled with paint brush, saw
and hammer who repaired old donated toys and
created new ones from scrap material.

A Christmas Proclamation

CITY OF DECATUR, ILLINOIS

Whereas, Santa Claus arrives in Decatur on
Friday, November 26, 1937, I, Charles E. Lee,
Mayor of Decatur, Illinois, hereby proclaim Fri-
day, November 26 as the day of the ofiicial opening
of the Christmas season, and do designate and es-
tablish the Christmas Village in Central Park as
official Santa Claus headquarters during the period
November 26, 1937, through December 25, 1937.

Let us, therefore, on the day appointed receive
Santa Claus as the oliicial Ambassador of Christ-
mas and welcome him to our city with all the joy
and happiness apprOpriate to this season.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
and caused the seal of the City of Decatur to be
affixed.

Done at the City of Decatur this twenty-third
day of November in the year of Our Lord, 1937.
(Signed) CHARLES E. LEE, Mayor,

City of Decatur, Illinois.

Thus was Santa’s arrival in Decatur ofhcially
heralded. Escorted to his headquarters by a

(Continued on. page 533)
497

Christmas Festivals, Masques and Pantomimes

A Christmas Ballad, by Florence S. Page. To be acted in
pantomime. Included in “Christmas Pageants.”
Womans Home Companion. 15¢

Christmas Book, by Mary E. Phipps and Marjorie Van
Horn. An elaborate Christmas entertainment for a
school or center with physical training and music de-
partment to direct dances and songs. A mother and her
little boy and girl sit before the fire and talk of the
Christmas holidays. The children want to look through
the Christmas Book. As they turn the pages of the
book the pictures come to life in song and dance. 26
characters. One hour in length. Womans Press. 35¢

The Christmas Caravan, by Edith \Vathen. An interest-
ing festival which will meet the needs of those looking
for a holiday production calling for large groups of
children of different ages, with music, songs and dances.
The story centers around an elderly man who travels

-around the world with his puppet children in a gaily
painted cart. The Christmas Creche is the culmination
of his puppet-master’s art. The author has included
notes on the various phases of production—costumes,
properties, music and the like. \Valter H. Baker

Co. 35¢

A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomime. In-
cluded in “The Christmas Book.” National Recreation

Association. 50¢

Christmas Everywhere, by Edna Randolph Worrell. A
pageant of reading, song and tableaux. A young girl is
discovered looking over her Christmas postcards from
diEerent countries, and reading of the holiday customs
observed in these lands. Through tableaux these cus-
toms are depicted, accompanied 'by appropriate music.
Eldridge Entertainment House. 25¢

Christmas Windows, by Mayme Christensen and Flora
M. Frick. A pantomime drama of kindness. Cast may
be large or small. Easily produced. For children of
all ages up to 16. The Christmas Child looks into the
window of a toy shop, of a hOme where there is a
Christmas party, of a church, and of a minuet dancer’s
home. He is turned away with harsh words until he
stops at the lowly cottage where he finds a welcome.
He rewards the humble family with His blessings.

Dramatic Publishing Co. 30¢

Christmasse in Merrie England, by Mari R. Hofer. A
charming celebration with old English songs and cus-
toms and a short masque in rhyme. From 30 to 80
may take part. Clayton F. Summy Co. 25¢

Christmasse Revels. A Christmas festival in three scenes,
written by Millis Caverly. One interior. Plays for one
and a half hours. 35 main characters and extras. The
author pictures the hearty celebration and quaint and
pleasing customs of the Christmas season in England,
beginning on Christmas Eve and lasting for 12 days.
Adaptable for community use. Banner Play Bureau.
75c. Royalty $10.00 where admission is charged; $5.00
where it is not. .

Holly and Cypress, by Anna J. Harnwell and Isabelle I.
Meaker. A Christmas play with pageantry, in 2 acts
and an interlude. 5 men, 3 women, and extras. In-
terior. Costumes, 15th century English. Pageantry is
part of action of play and consists of old English
Christmas customs. Can be adapted to meet varying
needs. Suitable for community celebration. Samuel

498

French. 50¢. Royalty $10.00 when admission is
charged; $5.00 when it is not.

St. Francis of Assisi, by Margaret Lynch Conger. 35
characters. 40 minutes in length. The animals hold
court in the woods, but their peace is broken by quarrel-
ing. St. Francis’ kindly spirit quiets them and they
flock to him just as children dressed as Christmas

mummers enter and give their presentation of the story
of the ChI'ISt-Chlld. Womans Press. 35¢

Southumberlaml’s Yale-Tide, by C. Arthur Coan. One
act. 20 men, 20 women, and extras. 45 minutes in
length. A festival written in the spirit of the tradi-
tional yule celebration of olden days and so conceived
as to permit the whole school or community to take
an active part. Samuel French. 50¢. Royalty $10.00.

The Star Gleams, by Florence Lewis Spence. So often
are there inquiries for Christmas programs calling for
large casts of characters and‘ few rehearsals, yet being
simple, dignified and moving in nature. Here is a
pageant which meets many of these qualifications. The
old story is told entirely in pantomime with singing
rendered by choristers and the audience, the scene of
which is laid before the doors of a church or some

other suitable building. Complete notes for production
have bem included. Samuel French. 35¢

Ten Good Christmas Pantomimes, by Ethel Eldridge. A

collection of well-known hymns, songs and recitations

that will add novelty to a Christmas program. Eldridge
Entertainment House. 40¢

Three Christmas Pageants of Other Lands, by Helen P.
Curtis and Jeanne I-I. Curtis. A collection of three
children’s pageants based on typical Christmas customs
of France, Italy and England, presented in outline
form, depending entirely upon pantomime and music
to carry the narrative. Adaptable for simple or elabo-
rate production. Music suggestions included. Womans
Home Companion. 15¢

Tzcielve Festival and Dance Program for. Spring and
Christmas Exhibitions, by Margery Coe Hawley and
Mary Kate Miller. Burgess Publishing Co. $1.50

Ye Olde Christmasse Masque, compiled and arranged by
William Baines. With carols, dances, jousts and
friscols as performed in Merrie England in Ye Olden
Dayes. One act, one scene. Oliver Ditson Co. 40¢

Yuletide in Other Lands and the Hanging of the Greens.
Two ceremonies for Christmas time. The first one is a
series of tableaux bringing in customs of many
countries, with carols and hymns in which the audience
may join. The second one is a ceremony to use when
the Christmas greens are hung. Womans Press. 20¢

Y aletide Revels in Merrie England, by M. A. LeMs and
E. M. Verni. An entertainment embodying the cus-
toms and spirit of the Old English Christmas in
dramatic form. Includes many old carols, songs, and
dances. Samuel French. 35¢. Royalty on individual
plays on application.

Yuletide Wakes, Yuletide Breaks, by Dorothy Gladys
Spicer. A Christmas revel centering around episodes
in which 11 nationalities are represented. The author
includes full directions for production. May be as
elaborate as one desires. Womans Press. 35¢

(Continued on page 534)

 

Courtesy Irene Kaufman“ Play School Settlement

“Speaking of Toys”

HRISTMAS is approaching, and it is time to
C talk of toys, for many persons will soon be

concerned with them. The craft leader, for
one, will be selecting toy-making projects for his
classes and clubs. Will he consider not only the
value of the project to the child, but also the suit—
ability for little sister of the gift which John
makes for her? (All too often this latter part is
carelessly considered.) Extra “Santas” are re-
habilitating old toys and making new ones in
much-publicized Toy Shops for needy children.
Will- these “Santas” lit the present to the child
who is to find it in his stocking? Or will it come
again to the Christmas Toy Shop next year be—

cause it did not fit? What will the leader of the '

Mothers’ Clubs tell mothers about gifts when they
ask, as they surely will, “What can I get or make
for Mary and Jimmie which doesn’t cost a lot?”
Will the gifts you and I give bring joy or sorrow
on Christmas morning?

It is not so easy as one would imagine, this
selection of the proper toys. It is more than a
matter of choosing what strikes our adult fancy
(as we are so apt to do), or spending ten dollars,
or getting something bright and shiny which
“works” when wound with a key. It is necessary
to turn back the clock of time and find out what
children need and really enjoy at each age level.
We might well start with the very small child,
consulting Irving E. Miller, Ph.D., Child Psy—
chologist on the faculty of Washington State

If parents. before they are
led away and bewildered by
the crowded shops at Christ-
mas time, and by the masses
of toys displayed, will only
pause to consider what pres-
ents will give the greatest
pleasure to their childrenl
then their Joans and Peters
will not be disappointed!

Normal School, who wrote an article in the Ki-
wanis Magazine on “Toys for Tiny Tots” from
which we quote.

Toys for Sensory Experiences

We are all made on the plan of responding to
stimuli from our environment. Hence nature has
seen to it that we all enjoy a great variety of new
sensory experiences. Little children get a great
thrill from bright colors—gorgeously colored bits
of paper, glass or china. Let toys that you buy for
them be gay. Noises that are distressing to our
jaded nerves are highly interesting to them. They
represent new and exciting experiences. The pos—
sibilities of touch and muscle sensations never
seem to be exhausted. Baby feels of everything
that he can get hold of. And how easy it is for
poor as well as rich to find in every environment
the toys that will make him happy! Buy the bright
and the rapidly moving things that delight the
eye; the noise making things, however crude, that
excite the ear; the host of simple things that pro-
vide abundant opportunities for touch and muscle

sense.

Toys that Involve Activity and Control

The second great principle of satisfaction in
playthings is that they must involve activity. Lit-
tle children seem to like activity for its own sake.
Baby thrusts with his hands and kicks with his
feet in sheer joy of life activity. He babbles, coos
and gurgles. As soon as he can creep there is
endless going to and fro. As soon as he can walk,
running back and forth is exciting. Climbing up
in a chair and down again, over and over—“this

499

500 “SPEAKING OF r0175”

is lots of fun. But there is a third principle here
involved; the activity must be one in which he
participates, in which he gets the joy of being a
cause, in which he experiences the power of con-
trol, control over some part of his bodily mechan-
ism, some external thing or some person. The
activities of creeping, of walking or climbing,
previously mentioned, are not mere activities.
They represent certain types of growing control
over arms, legs, and hands. And while these
forms of control are new they bring thrills of de-
light. So there is a time when a baby may take a
cork out of a bottle or a cover off a box at vari-
ous intervals throughout the day; and this he may
do for many days, off and on, until it becomes
easy and loses interest. Madame Montesorri dis-
covered that children below kindergarten age love
to take pegs of different sizes out of holes and put
them back again. I saw a little girl about two
years of age play about an hour with cake tins.
These tins had a funnel rising up in the middle.
She had a grand time putting one tin inside the
other and taking it out again—activity, yet not
mere activity; rather doing something that was
suited to a growing sense of power; interesting
because new, interesting because ministering to
the sense "I can do it.”

The Suitability of Toys

Three principles thus far have been stated, ex-
plained and illustrated. Let us now apply these
principles more explicitly to typical toys for tiny
tots. First of all comes the traditional rattle. Why
is this a good toy for baby? It may be of some
striking color to please the eye; it yields quite a
range of thrilling noises; it furnishes abundant
muscular activity, and that within the range of
baby’s ability to control. Drums very early yield
an abundance of striking sensory effects as well
as furnishing easy activity. Tops are more diffi-
cult to manage, and to be satisfactory must wait
for the degree of development of the hand that
makes it possible for the child to operate them
himself. The new sensations of buzzing noise of
a top have considerable variety and to watch the
great variety of motions is especially enticing to
the eyes, and yet, if the child cannot operate the
top himself, let me warn you that the toy may
bring more grief than pleasure to the tiny tot.

The ball is a universal toy. It satisfies every
physiological condition. It is easily manipulated
and responds to the will of the child. It yields
fascinating sensations to the eye as it moves and

rebounds like a living thing. It may be made
more resplendent with color. It has endless pos-
sibilities of activity as motor control increases
with growth. It may be played with alone, but it
is much better as a toy for more than one. In it
there is fun for every stage of growth and de-
velopment, provided you remember that the game
to be played with it must be suited to the child’s
age and ability to participate in it freely.

With the ball go all the other things that roll
or can be made to roll—the hoop, the wheel, the
cart, the wheelbarrow or anything else that oper-
ates mainly on rollers or wheels or that can be
turned by hand, or anything that swings or slides
or whirls with sufficient ease to be operated by the
child himself.

The doll is also a universal toy, found among
all races of man. It is universal because it satis-
fies all three of the fundamental principles laid
down. With dolls go the various forms of ani-
mals, such as the teddy bear with movable arms
and legs and head. These are attractive forms of
the doll for boys. However, the more exclusive
adaptation of the doll to the girl of the family, at
least in early childhood, I believe is due more to

suggestion from adults than to the strength of
any urge inherent in sex.

The Importance of Simplicity

Repeatedly I have emphasized the importance
of simplicity in toys for tiny tots. Let me develop
this idea more fully. Children of this age do not
notice minute details. It is the general form of
the things that stands out. If you do not believe
this, ust watch how they draw pictures. So with
dolls, they do not care about the exact proportion
of parts, the proper placing of eyes, ears, nose and
mouth. Minute details are bewildering; hence the
little tot may be happier with an old rag doll than
with the most finished product from Paris. The
same is true with mechanical toys. There must be
simplicity of whirling, buzzing parts. Almost all
the commercial erector sets are unsuited to tiny
tots for two reasons: first, the high degree of
complexity of structures to be built; second, the
difficulty little hngers have in manipulating the
many burrs and bolts and small parts. Such toys
are better suited to boys and girls from seven to

ten years of age. Building blocks from time im—
memorial have been found suited to tiny tots. It

is largely because of their simplicity and their ease
of manipulation. The child can control them him-
self. Only the traditional cubes should be supple-

“SPEAKING OF TOYS” ' 501

mented with other simple forms —— blocks of
double the length and half the thickness.

The Kitchen as a Source

While I am speaking of simplicity of toys, let
me remind you that while commercial firms are
meeting the demand more and more adequately
with an infinite variety of ingenious toys that are
very simple, nevertheless, it is not necessary to go
very far from home to find a great many satisfy-
ing simple toys. Mother’s kitchen is full of things
that please tiny tots and at the same time are very
inexpensive. A tin pan and a spoon, tin dishes to
fit one inside of another, empty spools to roll,
clothes pins to stand on end or to fit together, the
egg-beater to turn are “treasures” for the child.
A little pile of box wood furnishes endless oppor-
tunities for play. And a sand pile—well every
tiny tot is entitled to a sand pile. Give him a little
pail, a spoon, a funnel and an old sieve and there
are hours of delight in store for him. Parents
who will give a little thought to it can discover
and invent endless numbers of toys for little chil-
dren. Particularly is this true in a rural or semi-
rural community.

Toys for Children Seven to Ten

LLse Williams in the New Em, an English
periodical, in December 1936, tells of Christmas
presents suitable for the child seven to ten.

There are games of skill which develop the
physical ability—such games as punch ball, bad-
minton, bagatelle, table tennis for the elder ones.
These would be welcome gifts. So would skates,
or a set of riding lessons. And for those who
have a bicycle—a basket, lamp, puncture outfit.
All these contribute to the child’s desire to acquire
skill and help him to gain control both mentally
and physically.

Social play, the begin-
nings of which show them—
selves in “make believe”
of every day life, in play
with dolls and doll’s
houses, when the little
girl makes the clothes and
furniture from scraps of
material. A completely
ready-made present is un-
satisfactory because the
desire to create is stifled
by the quantity of clothes
and furniture usually

arouse curiosities,

"In the present-day educational schemeI toys
assume values that are positive and intrinsic.
Instead of serving merely to kill time until a
child is mature enough for so-called useful
things. toys are now regarded as constructive
tools of the growing personality. Toys of the
right kind may educate just as truly as doing
sums in arithmetic. They may. indeedI make
demands upon a child's ingenuity and imagi-
nation, develop skills.
and
thought and inquiry just as legitimately as does
any of these things."—From Play and Play-
things, Child Study Association ot America.

given. There is no longer phantasy play, but the
interest in acquiring skill in domestic occupations
as a preparation for life. This finds expression in
cooking with “real—and their own” utensils,
washing, gardening, painting. Small tins of paint
with brush and a bottle of turpentine make a
happy gift and could be used in the garden or
shed for painting old garden chairs, a fence round
the garden and many old boxes that are useful
for storing.

Social play also shows itself in spontaneous
story-play of all kinds. It is the foundation of
gangs and clubs, games with trains—dramatic
representations which take the form of playing
out story book ideas and real eXperiences, seen or
heard. For this, gifts of material such as cloth
and old clothes, paper, paste, thread and pins are
needed for dressing up, making crowns, armor,
animal heads, and so on. There must be paints
for the scenery—a ten-year old boy would proba-
bly like a simple toy stage for which he could
make his own figures and produce his own plays,
experimenting with the use of colored lights and
scenic eHects.

Responsibility and independence are fostered
by a feeling of “my own.” To possess is to take
responsibility and the normal child delights in
looking after his own things in an orderly way.
But the parents must see to it that adequate pro-
vision is made for this, and that the child has
some place to keep his treasures. Bookshelves, a
small chest of drawers, a chest or store box would
make a welcome present—somewhere to keep his
own scissors, paste, ruler and paper; a small at-
taché case for traveling, however short the jour-
ney; a sewing basket, boxes for the trains or
meccano. Children love nice boxes and one with
a lock and key gives added oy. A pot or jug for
one’s own fiowers makes a most acceptable gift.
(Think of the delight and
satisfaction shown by the
small boy who has pockets
for the first time, and the
little girl carrying her
purse!)

Into these boxes and
drawers go the children’s
tools, which provide fur-
ther suggestions for pres-
ents. There are woodwork
tools, sewing materials,
paints, bottles of poster
colors which give fresh

suggest principlesl
open up vistas of

502 “SPEAKING OF TOYS”

vivid color, and fat brushes, in preference to the
small fine brush and hard paints of‘ the ordinary
little paint—box. A packet of large sheets of paper,
plain and colored, that can be used freely at any
time, rubber bands and clips, seccotine, balls of
string, pencils and penknives. The care of all
these developsa feeling of responsibility.

Then, too, there is the question of pets. One
rather selfish, irresponsible boy of nine years was
given a puppy. It needed exercise and regular
feeding. He began to enjoy having something
alive that would come when called, that depended
on him for existence, and gradually he developed
a feeling of ownership and responsibility that had
hitherto been lacking.

Around seven years of age children show defi—
nite desire for constructive play, and if denied
opportunity for such they grow up deficient in
constructive imagination.

A box of materials, including wood, nails, tools,
sandpaper, hinges and so on for a ten-year-old,
supplies a growing need, and the bricks and blocks
Jack and Peter (ages eight and nine) played with
gave real satisfaction. So often one finds that
wooden blocks are confined to the three or four
year old, whereas the boy of seven or eight years,
though he uses them differently from his younger
brother and sister, needs them as much. They
should be strong, large, and of varying size and
shape such as any carpenter would supply on re—
quest and there should be planks which can be

used for bridges and for paths along which small '~

cars will run.

Tom (aged seven) had been given a ready—made
toy “with nothing left for him to do,” and he was
beyond the stage of being content with mere ac—
tivity. He was ready for meccano, jig-saw puz—
zles, clay and plasticene with which to express his
own ideas.

To help their developing social sense, children’s
presents should include games of mental skill,
such as card games, draughts, dominoes, snakes
and ladders. During this stage from seven to ten
years of age, children will in varying degrees
spend long periods of time playing such games
with deep concentration and enjoyment. I know
a boy of nine years who insisted on playing
Reversi daily for a week till he had formed a tech-
nique of his own and could nearly always win.

If a boy of eight is interested in ships, a book
on ships pleases him. Books of reference begin
to make their appeal now; sources in which the
boy or girl can look up what he or she wants to

know—natural history books and magazines—a
dictionary—an atlas to help the stamp collector.
Add a book of blank pages Where the child can
copy his favorite poems and short stories or rid-
dles or anything that attracts him. Robert, a boy
of eight years, at his “Prep” school always had a
small book with him, “because I often think of
something I want to remember and I like to write
poems.”

Cheap exercise books are useful for writing
stories or pasting interesting pictures cut out of
newspapers. In this way a “bookworm” will be-
come more active over his reading.

In choosing reading books a visit to a good
bookseller would help, and if the children’s in—
terests are not known, a book token so that they
can select their own is better than a bad choice.

Giving money as presents, as one is often tempt—
ed to do because one doesn’t know what to give,
is undesirable. Children live in the present before
they can take sensible thought for the future, and
to encourage thought for a possible future leads to
such boasting as “I’ve got so much in the bank,
how much have you got?” This is but the adult
attitude reflected in the child and is neither natural
nor desirable. But where the friend knows that
the child wants a specific thing and would like to
choose, it himself, as, for instance, a pair of skates,
then the money has a definite purpose which is
concerned directly with today and not the distant
future.

In conclusion, I would suggest that a sense of
well—being should be the permanent outcome of
our children’s presents, so that from our gifts
they will have more fun, increased responsibility
(from the possession of a puppy perhaps), greater
skill, through being able to say “I’ve learned to
ride” or “I can spell everything now with my dic—
tionary,” greater imagination, wider sympathy
and a love and joy in giving as Well as receiving.
If parents, before they are led away and bewil-
dered by the crowded shops at Christmas time
and the masses of toys displayed, will pause and
think out what present will give the greatest
pleasure to their children, then their Joans and
Peters will not be disappointed.

“With a well chosen toy, the child will become
absorbed in play. There will be evidence in his
every attitude of his interest and satisfaction. A
good toy fills the child’s need for deve10pment by
exercising those faculties which are at the time
most actively growing.”—Beatrice Gelber.

Wandering

the Great War, and the

place of action of the
Wandering Storytellers
was a thriving substantial
New England city that
almost overnight had had
its active placidity greatly
interfered with by the ad-
vent of thousands of new-
comers who had come to
fill the demands for muni-
tion workers that the great
plants had created with the
onset of the war. On and
011 they came ———Russians,
Spaniards, Italians,
Swedes, Norwegians, Poles
and others—bringing their
families and many of their
customs and national likes
and dislikes. Overcrowd-
ing piled on overcrowding;
city limits, except on the
water-bounded side, kept
stretching out and out far
beyond the paved and sur-
veyed area. Jitneys bustled everywhere; crowds of
unassimilated men, women, young people and
children surged here and there, met other huge
groups very different from themselves. Especially
little children and the young boys and girls, up—
rooted from their native towns or cities, stood
estranged in a new city which boasted of an inland
and a shore-exposed park, one outstanding hotel,
three or four movies, many schools, churches,
Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., and at that time a large
barrack where almost any time one could catch
glimpses of khaki-clad figures entering or going
out on pleasure or duty bound.

Wise men of the city felt the
restless pulse of this great mass,
knew human nature well enough
to be convinced that some kind
of pleasure would be sought.
They realized how far from
adequate the supply was and
saw that unless some wholesome

IT WAS IN the period of

 

By HAZEL COLBY HAYMAN

Formerly Supervisor, Special Activities
Board of Recreation
Bridgeport' Connecticut

A former recreation worker revives
memories of the wandering bands
of storytellers who, during the sum-
merI roamed the city dressed as
gypsies. At Christmas time, attired
in red, holly-trimmed capes. they
went out into the highways andby-
ways telling stories of Christmas
and folk tales from foreign lands.

Storytellers

plan was devised the wel—
fare of this huge cross?
section of humanity, for
whose presence they were
in some degree responsi-
ble, would be threatened.

Out of their cogitations
came the decision to ask
the City Fathers for an
appropriation and the au-
thority to create a City
Board of Recreation. To
the City Hall went the pe-
tition, and from the City
Hall came back the per-
mission and the appropria-
tion.

Soon the board began to
function. It was spring-
time, and plans for play-
grounds (twenty-two in
number), band concerts,
beach parties and numer-
ous other activities were
launched.

Then Came the Gypsy Storytellers

“Brr-brr.” One day in early summer the tele-
phone bell sounded at the Recreation Department.
To the query “Who is calling?” came the answer,
“The head of the Dramatic Expression Depart-
ment of the High School.” The gist of her mes-
sage was this: that from among her students she
had been able to train many good storytellers and
they, with her, were anxious to do their bit of war
service work. And so, at her suggestion, they had
volunteered to wander in pairs through the city
to tell much loved and new stories to the children
they met. To add the elements
of color and imagery they had
decided to adopt the dress of
the gypsy. Then after a pause
came the question, “Would the
Recreation Board like to have
these high school students (girls)
as a volunteer part of their staff

for the summer months?”
(Continued on page 534)

503

IGHT YEARS ago, after
E years spent abroad in

countries where
Christmas evergreens are
limited in quantity by for-
estry commissions, G. M.
Haushalter of Rochester,

On Tweltth Night

How do you dispose of your
Christmas trees and greens
when the holidays are over?
Why not make their passing
a veritable blaze ot glory?

barge which could be towed
a few hundred yards off
shore at one of San Fran-
cisco’s attractive beaches
and set on fire. Thus the
trees and the greens which
had given so much pleasure

New York, was troubled to

see how the city threw its lavish decorations into
the gutter after the holiday season.‘ Mr. Haushal-
ter’s concern found expression in the formation
of a committee to save the evergreens and give
them an affectionate farewell. As a result of the
activities of the committee, city trucks delivered
the municipal Christmas trees and greens to a hill
in a park; families sent their decorations, and
children brought their own trees to place on the
great mound. At nightfall on Twelfth Night the
greens were set afire. As the flames rose, fragrant
and crackling, boys and girls sang their forest and
fire songs. A thousand voices joined in “O Come,
All Ye Faithful.”

It was found that the children were greatly in-
trigued with this festival since it prolonged Christ-
mas into the drab winter days and acted as an
antidote to the reaction which follows the usual
holiday festivities.

Each year Rochester’s Twelfth Night bonfire
has become increasingly popular, and other cities
have adopted it with enthusiasm. Inquiries have
come from as far away as England where for-
merly Twelfth Night was a joyful festival.

Last year the San Francisco, California, Recre-
ation Commission, following Rochester’s example,
planned a colorful procession for Twelfth Night
to be accompanied by appropriate music. Un-
fortunately, due to prevailing high winds, the
Fire Department felt it wise to cancel the observ-
ance two days before the scheduled date. The
idea, however, had made a wide appeal, and at the
time of cancellation hundreds

were saved from the “igno-
miny of the refuse heap.”

History of Epiphany Celebrations

Early Christians celebrated the feast of the N a—
tivity of Christ for twelve days, placing special
emphasis on the last or Twelfth Day, which was
observed as the anniversary of the manifestation
of Christ’s divinity to the whole world, as per—
sonihed by the Three Wise Men of the East.

It was not until later, some time in the fourth
century, that Christmas came to be especially cele-
brated as the anniversary of Christ’s appearance
“in the flest.”

The observation of Epiphany, or Twelfth Day,
as a special festival has for a long time fallen into
disuse, but during the Middle Ages, and even as
late as the seventh century, it was a very impor-
tant holiday in the calendar.

In both England and France, Twelfth Day was
celebrated with ceremonies called “the Feast of
the King of the Bean.” According to the tradi-
tion, a large cake was baked with a bean hidden
inside it. Then at the ceremony, which was a
family or community affair, the cake was cut and
a piece given to each one present. The one re-

ceiving the piece containing the bean was crowned

King of the Bean and preserved his regal charac-
ter until midnight. In England, this was fre-

quently varied by putting both a bean and a pea
in the cake, the bean designating the king, and the
pea the queen of the festival.

This festival is still observed in some sections
of France where it is called

of trees had been taken to
the designated area atop Twin
Peaks. Everyone liked so
much the spirit. of the ob-
servance that plans were
made to place the trees,
wreaths and greens which
had been collected on a large

504

The facts which we are presenting in
this article regarding the history of
Epiphany observances were assembled
by Norman M. Howser of the Rochester
Democrat and Chronicle. The material
was forwarded by Mr.Haushalter to Miss
Josephine Randall of the San Francisco
Recreation Commission who sent it to
the National Recreation Association.

“the King’s Day.” Evidence
of its one-time popularity is
found in the French proverb
applying to one .who has had
good luck, “He has found the
bean in the cake.”

In Italy, the festival of

Twelfth Day was celebrated
(Continued on page 535)

HOULD a recreation center be
decorated for beauty’s sake,
or is it merely a place in

which youth and adults may romp
and play without regard to the

Let’s Decorate l

A plea for the decoration
of recreation centers with
articles which will be the
expression, in some crea-
tive Form, of the ideas of

part. This is equally true of all
phases of .artistic expression.
Neither child or adult can gain as
complete satisfaction from ob-
serving or making use of the

appearance of their surround-
ings? As our educational level is
raised we constantly ask for more
of the iiner and more cul-
tural things, the so-called
luxuries. Education means
culture; culture means re-
finement, and refinement is
more likely to exist in rea-
sonably attractive surroundings. These surround-
ings need not be elegant, but at least they should
be satisfying. Leisure and refinement will give
much larger returns to the individual than if the
surroundings are barren and crude. Hence we
may claim with doubtless justification that a rec-
reational program will be more effective in an
attractively appointed recreation center.

On the other hand, decoration should not be
thought of as mere beautiiication. To insure de-
fensible educational results, this decoration should
go much deeper. It should serve as the medium
both for developing refinement and for encourag-
ing self—expres-
sion on the part
of all who come
within its influ-
e'n c e. I t h a 5
long been rec-
ognized that the
c h i 1 d w h 0
makes his own
toys will not
only enjoy them
more complete-
ly but have a
more lasting af-
f e ct i o n f o r
them than will
the child whose
toys are all of
the expensive
type provided
Without any ef-
fort on his own

those attending the center

By WILLIAM RALPH LAPORTE

Professor of Physical Education
University of Southern California

 

Photo by W. A. Moss, Kodak Ltd., England

completed work of another crea-

tive artist as he can through

some completed expression me—
dium of his own.

A recent newspaper arti-
cle carries the description
of a home-made orchestra
with each child, under the
encouragement of his

teacher, building some kind of musical instru-
ment. through his own efforts. Without question,
each of these children will gain far more in crea-
tive interest from his participation in such an or-
chestra than he would from a similar group
equipped with prepared instruments.

All of this is by Way of introduction to the
thought that a recreation center should be deco-
rated as far as possible through the medium of
the creative, expressive hobbies, particularly in
the field of creative arts. In most cases, however,
such handiwork is exhibited for the observation
of others only on very rare occasions. Why
shouldn’t it be
possible to keep
'a continuous
exhibit in each
recreation cen-
ter of the hand-
iwork of mem-
bers? Many of
the more hesi-
tant and back-
ward individ-
uals who have
native talent
w o u l d t h u 5
have an oppor-
tunity for ex-
pression and
others would
see and recog-
nize their abili-

ties.
(Continued on
page 536)
505

Advertising Your Center's Activities

HE IRENE KAUFMANN SETTLEMENT of Pitts- tesy of Sidney Teller, Director of the Settle-

burgh, Pa., advertises its activities through an ment. At the bottom of each postal appear the
attractive series of postals. A number of the address of the Settlement and an invitation to
postals are reproduced here through the cour- join the activity pictured on the card.

1‘5 ‘I'DUR [navel

'J

 

Thai: Amazing Golf!

” OLF,” SAYS Estelle Law-

6 son Page, women’s na—

tional champion in

1937, “is the coming game of
America.”

From an acknowledged even if
self-taught expert, that statement
might be regarded as prejudiced.
Whatever one’s opinion of its
worth, it remains a fact that there
is more interest in golf today than
ever before; new courses are be-
ing built and new devotees, old
and young, are daily being recruited. Most play-
ers, without thought of the glamour of champion-
ship matches, are interested in the pure joy of
golf, in the magnificent sweep of the outdoors, in
the high adventure of play in the open.

Mrs. Page, youthful, robust, and determined, is
a symbol for American womanhood, and perhaps
a challenge for American manhood, of the possi—
bilities of golf as a hobby, golf without profit, but
as a builder of health and a never-failing oppor-
tunity for recreation. Mrs. Page has had no in-
struction in golf, but with a few years of practice
and a tremendous interest in the finesse of the
game, she is today one of America’s premier golf-
ers among women. Having achieved the coveted
title of the nation’s championship, she has demon-
strated irrefutably that golf can be played, and
played gloriously,without professional instruction.

Golf lessons can be made as simple or as
elaborate as the pupil is minded. Beginners who
have a constricted purse are ever COHSCiOUS of the
green fees. But practice, and effective practice,
can be had without seeing a golf course. Putting
(rolling the ball into a cup) is commonly prac-
ticed on one’s lawn or even
on one’s carpet. But Mrs.
Page, in the back yard of her
home in North Carolina’s
picturesque university tOWn
of Chapel Hill, also develop-
ed her swing. She adopted
the resourceful expedient of
tying between two trees a bit
of canvas measuring perhaps
fifteen feet each way.
Against this “backboard” she

By FRANKLIN L. BURDET'I‘E

Depar’rmenf of Poli’rics
Princel'on Universi’ry

"There is no 'secref' ’ro playing
golf well any more ’rhan there is
’ro fhrowing a baseballI or play-
. . Good golf is
easy fo play. and easy golf is
enioyable golf."-—Etnest Jones
in Swinging into Golf.

ing a piano. .

"There is no reason why anyone wifh or-
dinary physical qualificafions canno’r
learn fo play golf well, given fhe oppor-
funify fo approach if in a sensible and
infelligen’r way, and assuming fhal' he is
willing fo give fhe ’rime and effor’r nec-
essary fo prac’rice. No’r all can or will
develop ’rhe same degree of sl<ill with
fhe same amoun’r of effort. . . Ye’r fo a
considerable ex’ren’r in all cases one gets
ou’r of fhe game wha’r one pufs info if.”
—-Ernest Jones in Swinging into Golf.

drove her balls until she had

acquired near-perfection in

balance and timing. Such an

expedient can be used by any

novice, and it is not necessary
to obtain an expensive set of clubs,
or even many clubs. Practice
balls, too, may be bought quite
cheaply, and even a reconditioned
ball is serviceable. For that mat-
ter, the beginner may profit by
borrowing or renting his clubs
and balls till he has tested his in-
terest in the game.

Practice, then, is quite practicable before the
student golfer has seen a course. Familiarity with
the rules, too, is simple: copies of golf rules may
be obtained at a nominal price from any golf as-
sociation and from many clubs.

In choosing a course for his first play, the golfer
can exercise further discrimination in economy.
If there is a municipal or other public course
nearby, fees there are likely to be moderate. Once
on the course, the golfer will probably develop his
skill most rapidly if he tries to play with those
who are better than he.

Golf as a game has advantages peculiar to it—
self. Unlike tennis and other strenuous games, it
need not be abandoned as years advance and frail—
ties increase. The aged may well avoid hilly and
treacherous courses, but they can still play, and
even the infirm can find sunshine, exercise, and
amusement on the putting greens. For the strong
or the feeble, golf is a health—giving activity, and
it is often used as a cOmplete bodily exercise by
persons who would take no other form at all. It
has frequently been prescribed for the relief of
nervous tension, for it gives
satisfying mechanical expres-
sion to those who deal with
ideas and figures. From one
to four may play, and conse-
quently no golfer need bother,
unless he chooses, to find a
competitor.

Doubtless it is no sin that
most players of golf are
aware of the social advan-

(Continued on page 537)
507

The Community Theater at Lancaster

institute held at Lancaster,

Pennsylvania. last spring and
summer, the local Recreation
and Playground Association en-
rolled approximately a hundred
young people, many of whom
were doing dramatic work in
their churches and clubs and
others who were interested in
various phases of play pro-
duction.

At the beginning of the insti-
tute three classes a week were
held covering such subjects as
Organization of the Production
Staff, Play Analysis and Rehearsal, Acting Tech-
nique, Theater Make-up, Pantomime, Direction
Hints, Acting Principles, Color and Stage Light-
ing, the Speaking Voice, Costuming, Scenery,
Plays, Rehearsals, Books on the Theater, Relig-
ious Drama, Radio Drama, Motion Picture Drama
and Marionettes. As the interest increased it was
necessary to hold several classes in special phases
of drama at different times during the day.

The institute culminated in a two night drama
festival at which a num-
ber of one-act plays were

IN PREPARING for the drama

By GRANT D. BRANDON

Director of Recreation
Lancaster. Pennsylvania

As the result of the institute held
in Lancaster. Pennsylvania. under
the leadership of Jack Stuart
Knapp. the drama specialist at the
National Recreation Association. a
group of community players was
organized and a drama program
inaugurated which each week grows
in interest. Mr. Brandon tells in this
article about the institute and the
values for a permanent community
program which came from it.

The Community Theater at Lancaster in a presen-

given by the students. The plays
produced were: “Nearer My
God to Thee,” “Escemption,”
“Four Hundred Nights,” “Boc-
caccio’s Untold Tale,” and “The
Doctor Comes from Moscow.”

The institute was held in the
Diagnothian Literary Hall of
our Franklin and Marshall Col—
lege. This hall, with no facili-
ties for drama, was converted
into a theater, and experience
was gained not only in the pro-
duction of these project plays
but in the art of stagecraft,
lighting, and other technical
problems.

A Permanent Group Organized

As a direct outgrowth of the institute we now
have the Community ,Theater of Lancaster, a
small group of twenty-one charter members and a
governing board of six. This executive committee
is composed of a chairman elected by the execu—
tive committee, a secretary, a treasurer, and three

others. In addition to these regular officers, every

member of the committee
( Continued on page 537)

tation of "To Meet the Prince." by A. A. Milne

 

508

 

Extracurricular Leisure Time Activities

HE FIRST ITEM of in-
Tterest considered in
the recent study made
in the high schools of
Omaha, Nebraska and
Council Bluffs, Iowa, is an
enumeration of the stu-
dents’ recreation activities.
tSixty-one different
forms of recreation were
mentionedl‘For the boys, the largest number in-
dicated that dancing, baseball, basketball, football,
golf, reading and swimming led the listJ‘For girls,
dancing was by far the largest group, represent-
ing nearly one-third; swimming, a close second.
Hiking, skating, tennis and reading were the next
largest groups. More twelfth grade girls than
eleventh graders were interested in reading and
swimming. More of the twelfth grade than
eleventh grade boys preferred dancing. The same
was true in respect to swimming.“In general, the
twelfth graders of bothxsexes were interested in
recreation activities which afforded them an op-
portunity to associate with the opposite sexes.
The eleventh grade age is characterized more by
group activities of the same sex.
$As to hobbies, one would not anticipate so many
different interests, yet ninety-five different hob-
bies were mentioned on the replies. Airplane
modeling was the activity most frequently men-
tioned by the eleventh grade boys. Needlework
received the highest vote by the girls, especially
the twelfth graders. About ten per cent of the
girls gave music as their hobbies. Reading and
scrap books also rated high among girls. Eighteen
per cent of the girls and ten per cent of the boys
stated that they were interested in collections of
various kinds. The list included stamps, photos,
autographs, coins, perfume bottles, handkerchiefs,
match covers, match sticks,
chewing gum wrappers and
many others. The entire list
of hobbies represented di-
versified interests which
might serve as a basis to de-
termine talents and special
“bents” in human personali-
ties. Dolls and pets received
the lowest vote.

Report of a study of the reaction
of high school students to extra-
curricular recreation activities

By T. EARL SULLENGER, Ph. D.

Professor of Sociology
Municipal University of Omaha

This article is the result of an analysis
of the reaction of 667 boys and girls of
the eleventh and twelfth grades of high
schools in Omahal Nebraska, and Coun-
cil Bluffs, Iowa. Replies were recorded
to a questionnaire pertaining to recrea-
tionl hobbiesl athletics, clubs and school
parties. The results secured represent a
cross section of the activities of modern
youth in their most active period of life.

For the I51 eleventh
grade girls, 214 twelfth
grade girls, 124 eleventh
grade boys and I78 twelfth
grade boys, we found that
the distribution of club
membership was as fol-
lows: Eleventh grade girls
—62.3%; eleventh grade
boys—52.4%; twelfth
grade girls—71.5%, and twelfth grade boys—
5o%. Mt is noticed that there is a steady decrease
of club membership among boys as they ascend
the academic scale, while there is a marked in-
crease with the girls. This is to be expected, as it
is the natural tendency. Seventy-three different
clubs were listed. The Motor Club seemed to at-
tract the largest number of the students studied.
Hi Y came next in importance.

{1‘ his group was asked what type of clubs were

' best liked.’lTheir replies indicated that educational,

social and dramatic types were the favorites. The
general distribution is as follows:

Social Educational

11th Grade Girls . . . . .. 52.6% 17.2%
11th Grade Boys . . . . . . . 43.6% 24.2%
12th Grade Girls . . . . . . 52.8% 32.3%
12th Grade Boys . . . . . .. 41.6% 23.3%

rThe girls showed much more interest in social
clubs than did the boys. The twelfth grade girls
showed an increase in interest in educational
clubs, while twelfth grade boys showed a small
decrease./ Among the definite types of clubs re-
ceiving the largest number of votes as being best
liked were athletic, character building, fraterni-
ties, sororities, aviation, debate, discussion, music
and many others.

High school students are in the period of de-
velopment which calls for social eXpression. Their
club life serves as 'one very
important outlet for this ex-
pression. This value natur-
ally comes first, the educa-
tional value, as such, rank-
ing second. Frequently the
latter serves as a means to the
end—the social. This charac-
teristic is in order with nor—
mal development. Our insti-

509

510 EXTRACURRICULAR LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES

tutions would do well to recognize this fact and
plan their activities accordingly.

This study attempted to determine the desires
of the high school student along this line. They
were asked if they would like to belong to more
clubs in school if it were possible. Their replies

were as follows :

Percent
Class and Sex Yes No Desiring More
11th Grade Girls.. 113 26 74.8
11th Grade Boys.. 79 29 63.6
12th Grade Girls.. 134 58 62.6
12th Grade Boys.. 99 60 55.6

There seemed to be a general desire for addi-
tional clubs on the part of all, especially the
eleventh grade girls. The numerical distribution
of their desires was as follows:

11th 11th 12th 12th
Grade Grade Grade Grade

Type of Club Girls Boys Girls Boys
Any kind . . . . . . . . . . . 8 8 12 11

Educational . . . . . . . .. 19 23 37 25

Social . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 32 14 4O 24

Dramatic . . . . . . . . . .. 14 1 13 7

Recreational . . . . . . . . l 1 3 0

Musical . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 1 0 0
Public Speaking  1 4 9 2
Sororities . . . . . . . . .. 2 0 4 0
Fraternities . . . . . . . . . 0 2 0 2
Hobby . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 0 0 0
Character building  0 2 0 4

X Young people are not satisfied with passive ac-
tivities. VThey want clubs and organizations that

call for activities in the form of individual and,

group participation. This same group of nearly
700 young people were asked if they preferred
clubs that offered opportunities for discussion.
Their replies indicated that 63.8% of the eleventh
grade boys were strongly in favor of an oppor—
tunity to carry on individual discussions, while
51.7% of the same grade girls were of the same
opinion. The twelfth graders were not so sure,
as only 49.1% of the girls and 48.3% of the boys
favored more discussion.

This same group was asked a question con-
cerning their attendance at school parties. The
eleventh grade girls led the
affirmative column with
15.5%, while the boys of this
grade dropped to 59.7%. The
twelfth grade group did not
rate so highly in attendance
as the eleventh graders. The
girls led off with 64%, while
only 53.4% of the boys at-
tended the school parties. Of
the 527 students who ex—
pressed their desires for ad—
ditional school parties, 422,

youth to search out
those channels through which they may
demonstrate their capacity to accom-
plish something which they may call their
own. This is why they are so deeply inter-
ested in extracurricular activities where
success depends almost entirely upon
what they themselves are capable of do-
ing and where they are greatly stimulat-
ed by the discovery of their own unob-
served talents awaiting development."—
OtisE. Randall, Dean of Brown Universi

in School and Society, January 8. I938.

"It is natural for

or 80%, said that they favored more of these
events. Most of them desired mixed parties;
especially was this true with the girls.

The question frequently arises as to the fre-
quency of attendance of the high school students
at the athletic events sponsored by the school. The
replies showed that of the group studies, 87.4%
of the eleventh grade girls, 91.6% of the boys,
and 84.6% of the twelfth grade girls and 87.6%
of the boys attended the athletic events. The per-
cent of participation did not rate so high. 'Only
35.8% of the eleventh grade girls and 56.5% of
the boys participated, while 35.1% of the twelfth
grade girls and only 42.3% of the boys took part.

(Actual participation in the athletic activities seem

to reach far less than half. The main activities
participated in by the girls were swimming, base-
ball, basketball, golf, and tennis, with tennis and
swimming heading the list. The boys were more
active in baseball, basketball, golf, football, track
and wrestling. Many of the minor activities were
mentioned by a few individuals.

This study indicated the various phases of lei-
sure time activities that need the most emphasis
in our modern high schools. No doubt a well or-
ganized leisure time program would be one of our
most important assets in our public school system.

“The child should devote more time to health-
ful, satisfying play and recreation. This includes
out-of—door play, swimming, hikes, camping, nsh—
ing, music, art, dramatics, puppet shows, danc—
ing, reading for enjoyment, and many other simi-
lar activities, Again, man? or "these activities
would take place outside of the school building
and off the school grounds. Today teachers, su-
pervisors and administrators think there is no
time for such activities because there has to be
an arithmetic lesson every day, a spelling lesson,
a reading lesson, and so on through the long list
of school subjects. Actual—
ly, we are inhibited by tra-
dition, by fear that children
would fail to get educated. . .
We refuse to recognize that
these omitted activities are
educative, and that children
actually are not being edu-
cated owing to our failure to
include these activities in the
program.”—Alonao F. M ey-
ers in “Public Education Bul-
letin,” Pennsylvania.

Square Dancing in College

A LTHOUGH Chicago means

Illinois to the average

individual, those who
have spent a little time in
the Southern part of the state, who have turned
off the hard roads of “Little Egypt” onto the
often single tracked lanes of our thirty—mile
stretch of Ozark foothills, or have visited a few
of our famous old river towns such as Cave-in-
Rock or Shawneetown, know that we have a
country vastly different from the Illinois which
Chicago represents. Here, as Miss Saylor says of
the country dances from Alabama to Arkansas,
“The dances of our fathers are living today.”

In small towns and rural communities a family
frequently “gives it out” the afternoon of the
dance and the message is so quickly relayed that
neighbors from miles around come to dance in the
house or barn or on a platfdrm built for the pur-
pose. That square dancing is a vigorous, lively
and thoroughly enjoyable form of recreation has
been demonstrated conclusively in Southern Illi-
nois State Normal University. For more than
three years two student groups on our campus
have sponsored square dancing one evening a
week with parties several times during the year.
Students who have danced and “called” in their
home communities in Southern Illinois have
taught their dances to the group, which has grown
from approximately twenty to around one hun-
dred regular participants.- Several students—wold-
timers at playing “Turkey in the Straw” and the
like—formed an orchestra consisting of violin,
banjo and guitar. To these was soon added a
washboard, the player of which wore thimbles on
index and middle fingers of each hand in order to
strum the board effectively. ‘
Each fall the group has re—-
organized through the ef—
forts of students who took
part in the dancing the
previous year. This year
again the group danced all
through the hot spring
weather to a grand finale,
the third of its kind, held
out of doors the last week-
end of the term.

By AILEEN CARPENTER
Southern Illinois State Normal University
CarbondaleI Illinois

Delegates to the National Recreation Con-
gress held at Pittsburgh in October great-
ly enioyed the evening of square dancing
led by Ralph B. Tetierteller of the High-
lander Folk School at Monteagle, Tennes-
see. Other leaders also taught square danc-
ing during the Congress sessions: and so
keen was the interest that the National Rec-
reation Association is making available in
bulletin form a list of the dances taught
together with source material and various
other facts of interest. Copies of this
bulletin may be secured on request.

Several of our dances are
similar to those described in
the few publications on
square dancing available.
Invariably, however, differences occur. Even
within our own group students from communi—
ties not more than sixty miles apart danced the
same quadrille in a different way. The collecting
of these dances from descriptions given by various
students has been an interesting undertaking.

The couplets interspersed with the real calls are.
typical “running fire” of the caller who is prac-
tically never quiet. A few of our most popular
couplets follow:

Couplets

“Chicken in the bread pan kicking out dough—
DO—si your partner and a little more dough.”

“Stay at home and shake your shoe——
Swing your partner, corner too.”

“Meet yOUr partner, pat her on the head—
If she don’t like biscuits, feed her cornbread.”

“Dance, dance, everybody dance—you dance, too—
You swing a pretty and a pretty swing you.”

“Once and a half, how do you like that?
Hogs in the corniield getting mighty fat.”

“Everybody dance and hammer down eggs,
Swing on the corner like a hinge on the gate.”

“Meet your partner, pass her by—
You love women, so do I.”

“Next old boy, you know your load—
Light team, heavy load.”

“Just a few more days and it won’t be long,
You’ll look for me and I’ll

be gone.”

“Meet your partner, pat her
on the back—-

If she don’t like biscuits,
feed her slapjack.”

“Oh, my goodness! Oh, my
gracious!

My little wagon has gone
to pieces.”

“Same old boy and same
old mule—

511

512

Same old boy and same old fool.”

“Everybody home and everybody dance—
Swing that girl with the hole in her stocking.”

“Whatcha going to do when the river goes dry?
Sit on the bank and watch the crawlish die.”

“Watch your partner, watch her close—
She’s got fever, double dose.”

“Swing ’em high and swing ’em low—
Swing that piece of calico.”

Preliminaries or Introduction

The preliminaries are used at the beginning of
the dance and after each couple has finished a
figure, before the next couple starts out. The re-
marks in single quotation marks are not essential
parts of the call.

“Partners in your places, hitch up your traces,” or
“Circle eight and all get straight.”
The quadrille (usually eight) forms with
ladies at the right of their partners.

“Join hands, circle left.”
All dance to the left. The step varies with the
individual. A jig two-step is common.

“Circle back, drop hands, lady lead, men in track.”
or “Break tha“ line, ladies in the lead, gentlemen
behind.”
Drop hands, dance in the opposite direction so
that the lady is ahead of her partner.

“Stand still and shake your shoe,
Swing your partner, corner too.”
The partners take regular dance position (here—
after implied in “two arm swing”). They
swing once around then the gentleman gives
his left hand to the lady at his left, his “cor-

ner,” and swings her once around.

“Right and wrong as you go through.” Or,
“Grand right and left.”
Partners give right hands to each other then
progress in the direction they are facing (ladies
go clockwise, gentlemen go coun—
ter clockwise) giving alternate left
and right hands until they meet

their own partners again. 0 3

“ ‘Milk that cow and wean that calf—’ ' x 4
Swing your honey once and a half.”

Partners swing in two arm swing. 0’;

“Two arm swing”

Partners progress in opposite di-
rections as in Grand Right and

X3

Fig. I

SQUARE DANCING IN COLLEGE

Left, but this time each couple swings before
going on.

“Promenade” or “Run away home.”
When partners meet again they join hands in

skaters’ position and dance back to the posi-
tion from which they started.

“Face Six, Cross the Hall”
Preliminaries

“First couple out, by the right, back by the left,
don’t forget that two arm swing.” Or “First couple
out, do-si by the right, by the left, two arm swing.”

The head couple step forward slightly. The
gentleman dances past the lady, touching her
right hand, back past her, touching her left
hand, then takes her in a dancing position for
the two arm swing.

“Take that lady and circle four.”
The head couple makes a circle with the sec-
ond couple and they dance once around.

“Leave that lady and circle three.”
The head man leaves his partner with couple

two, goes to the third couple with whom he
dances once around.

“Take that lady and circle four.”
The head man takes the lady of the third cou—
ple, leaving her partner alone, she must hesi-
tate a moment so she will be at his right. These

two hook up with the fourth couple and dance
once around.

“Leave that lady.”

Gentleman leaves the lady of couple three with

couple four, and faces the gentleman of cou-
ple three. (See Fig. I.)

“Face six, center and back.”

The groups of three are facing each other.
They dance forward and back.

“Two lil’ gentlemen center and back.”

The head man and third man dance forward
and back.

“Face six, cross the hall.”
The groups of three change posi-

02 tions by dancing across the hall.
Ladies of first and third couple
x2 lead.
“Two lil’ gentlemen cross the hall.”
0’ Gentlemen one and three change

places. (See Fig. 2.)

Repeat above four calls so they are
all back as at hrst.

SQUARE DANCING IN COLLEGE

“Dance, dance, everybody dance.”
Partners dance.

“Promenade your left hand lady.”

Each gentleman takes lady to his left once
around the ring, stopping when he is back

home.

The dance continues with the first gentleman
leading out with a different lady each time until

each man has his own partner. Each
couple serves as head couple before
the end of the dance.

Bird in the Cage
Preliminaries

“First couple out, by the right, by the
left, two arm swing.”
Gentleman of first couple dances
past his lady, touching her right
hand, dances back, touching her
left hand, swings her around once.

“Hook up four.”
First couple joins hands with sec-
ond couple and dances around.

“Left hand lady come right hand
roundf’
Gentleman gives his right hand to
the lady on his left, not his part-
ner, and they swing once around.

“Right hand lady come left hand
back.”
Gentleman gives his left hand to
his own partner and they swing
once around.

“Don’t forget that two arm swing.”
Gentleman swings opposite lady
with two arm swing, then swings
his own partner with two arm
swing.

“Couple up four” as before.

“Bird in the cage.”

Lady of leading couple steps into the center;

other three dance around her.
“Bird flew out and owl flew in.”

Lady steps back into the circle and her part-

ner steps in.
“Whoop ol’ owl and gone again!”

513

“ lird in the cage.”
As above, lady in, out; gentleman in, out.

“Hook up eight and all get straight.”

Add couple four and then repeat “Bird in the
Cage,” etc.

“Everybody swing and everybody dance.”

XI
0: 01/-
X1 _ X1}.
Cl 03
X3
Fig. 2
/ x’
X
4 x1
X 1/
I
Fig. 3
x3
/ *
)5’0' 9 x1

Fig. 4

Each gentleman swings his own partner. Then
they dance the preliminaries and the second

couple leads out with this figure
again or changes figures.

“Form a Star”

Preliminaries

“Ladies to the center and back to the
bar.”
Ladies dance to the center of the
circle and back.

“Gentlemen to the center and form a
star.”
Gentlemen dance into the center,
join right hands with opposite
gentlemen and dance around
clockwise. (See Fig. 3.)

“Left hands back and star you are.”
Gentlemen drop right hands, swing
around so left hands are joined
and dance counter clockwise.

“Bass your partner by one.”
Gentlemen dance around, pass
partner, hook right arm with left
arm of the next girl who thus
joins in the dance.

“Ladies swing in and gents swing
out.”
Gentlemen drop hands, ladies
swing in, join right hands and all
dance clockwise. Gentlemen are
now on the outside of the circle.

(See Fig. 4.)

“Circle eight”

All fall back into a circle, each gentleman

with a new lady.

Repeat until partners are back together again

by calling “Pass your partner by two, three, etc.”

If there is still time repeat the preliminaries and
let the ladies form the original star.

The gentleman steps back into his place in the

circle.
“Hook up six and don’t you mix.”

The four now dancing join the third couple

and all dance.

Preliminaries
“First couple out, by the right, back by the left,

“Grapevine Twist”

don’t forget that two arm swing.”

514

Gentleman of first couple dances past
his partner, touching her right hand,
back, touching her left hand, and then

SQUARE DANCING IN COLLEGE

gentleman to her right (second
gentleman) around and under the
raised hands of the second cou-

swings her. X ple, around and under each suc-
“Come around, lady, come around X, 0'  ceeding pa1r of hands, until he
straight and the line followmg have pass-
Come around the gentleman and cut Fig' 5 ed under the arms 0f eaCh Soqu-
the figure eight.” (See Fig. 6.)
The gentleman, followed by his 03 x Preliminaries and repeat with sec-
partner, dances between the sec— '3 ond couple leading out.
0nd couple, around the lady, be— X4

tween them again and around the o
gentleman. (See Fig. 5.) F

“Hook up four.”
The first and second couple join
hands and dance once around.

“You swing mine and I’ll swing yours,

I’ll swing mine and you swing yours.”
Gentleman swings lady on his left,
then his own partner, then first
lady in two arm swing, then his
own partner in the same way.

“Hook up four.”
Again first and second couple join
hands and dance around.

“Come around the lady, come around
straight—etc.”
Headman leads the line of 'four
between couple three, around the
lady, between, and around the

 

“Figure Eight”
Preliminaries

“First couple out, by the right, by the
left, two arm swing.”
As previously described.

“Come around the lady, come around
straight,
Come around the gentleman and cut
the figure eight.”
As described in the Grapevine
Twist -— or
“Round that lady—
Whoa, haw, gee, back, around that
man.”
Head gentleman leads partner be-
tween second COUple, around lady,
dances round in a circle making
the second loop then between
couple and around the man.

gentleman. (See Fig. 7.)
“Hook up six, and don’t you mix.” at x O ’6 “Hook up four.”
All six join hands and dance once u I All four join hands and dance
around. \) / around.
“You swing mine—etc.” Fig. 8 “Left hand lady come right hand

Gentlemen swing ladies on, their

lefts, then their own, two arm swing in the
same order.

“Hook up six.”
All six join hands and dance once around.

“Come around lady, come around straight—etc.”
Head gentleman leads line between couple four
around lady, between, and around gentleman.

“Hook up eight.”
All eight join hands and dance once around.

“You swing mine and I’ll swing yours—etc.”
Same as when six joined hands.

Grapevine Twist:
The head man breaks the circle by dropping
hands with the lady on his left, leads the line
under the raised hands of his partner and the

round, right hand lady come left
hand back.”

As described in Bird in the Cage.

“Hook up four.”
As before.

Repeat calls from “Come around lady —” add-
ing each succeeding couple to the line. In each
case the head man leads the line around the lady,
back and around the man. When all eight are
hooked up for the second time they do the Cow-
boy Loop:

First couple leads forward across the circle (all
still holding hands) and go under the arms of the
pair across from them, drop hands and the lady
leads her line around to the right, the gentleman

(Continued on page 538)

Federal and State Planning for Recreation

ONRAD L. W IRTH
C is Supervisor of
Recreation and
Land Planning of the
National Park Service
in charge of the Branch
of Recreation, Land
Planning and State Co—
operation. He is the ad—
ministrative officer of
the Service immediately ;:.,
in charge of Civilian 
Conservation Corps .

work in national parks 

and monuments, state, 

county, and metropoli- .
tan parks and recrea—  
tion areas. As a mem-  
ber of the Advisory  0 A
Council of the CCC, he " -
represents the entire -
Department of the In-
terior in its relations
with the Civilian Conservation
Corps.

National Park Service ac-
tivities which center in Mr.
Wirth’s branch and come
under his supervision include
several important programs
through which Federal cooper-
ation is extended to the States
in the field of recreation. Among these is the
Park, Parkway and Recreational—Area Study
which is being made in every state. under authority
granted by Congress in 1936. The object of this
Study is to make an inventory of existing and
potential park, parkway and recreation areas, fa-
cilities, and programs, and, from analyses of these
data, to formulate recommendations for long-
term recreational programs for the States. The
United States Tourist Bureau, organized in Feb—
ruary, 1937, is also part of the Branch of Rec-
reational Planning and State Cooperation. Through
this Bureau the Service aims to assist recrea—
tional travel by coordinating travel information
from all sources and developing new and more
extensive methods of circulating information to
the public.

 

The task of administering the machin-
ery through which the National Park
Service of the Federal Government
cooperates with the States in certain
important areas of the field of recre-
ation carries with it heavy respon-

sibilities. Conrad L. Wirth is the
official responsible for this task.

Mr. Wirth was born
in Hartford, Connecti-
cut, and was graduated
from Massachusetts
Agricultural College.
For many years he lived
in Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, where his father.
Theodore Wirth, was
superintendent of parks,
and claims Minnesota
as his “home state.”
Before his appointment
to the National Park
Service as an assistant
director in 1931, he was
associated with the Na-
tional Capital Park and
Planning Commission
where his work was of
an executive nature in
connection with the ac-
quisition of land for the
park system of Washington,
D. C. His familiarity with
parks — national and state ——
fits him particularly well to
deal with that part of the CCC
program under technical su-
pervision of the National Park
Service, and with the broad
recreational activities of the
Service which come under his branch.

“Action compelled by emergency often produces
an awakening to human problems which otherwise
would await solution too long delayed. There have
been many such instances in our national history,
and some of the most important movements bear-
ing on the development of American life grew out
of circumstances or conditions which forced an
issue and set in motion a chain of events leading
finally to organized and planned procedure.

“In exactly such manner has the present park
and recreation movement in the United States
gained momentum until we now find ourselves at
a point of departure from which we must carefully
and intelligently chart our course if we are to give
the Nation a program adequate to meet its needs.”~

515

 

HE PROGRAM of recreational activities of the

Los Angeles, California, Department of Play-

ground and Recreation is closely correlated
with the curricular and extracurricular program of
the public schools. The Department supplements
the work of the Public schools in leisure-time ac-
tivities, and endeavors to organize and provide
leadership in activities in which young people have
already acquired interest and enthusiasm because
of the splendid program of the public schools.

In no activity is this plan better illustrated than
in music. In the past two decades the public
schools have developed an extensive program of
music. Many students graduate from high school
_with years of experience in playing in bands and
orchestras and singing in glee clubs. The Depart-
ment is seeking to capitalize this experience for
the benefit of the community by organizing music
groups of many kinds. Many of these groups have
volunteer leaders, for certain talented musicians
find their recreation in leading as others do in
playing an instrument or singing. Groups are
open to all and are graded according to skill.

Among the most interesting of the groups are
four young people’s choruses and one symphony
orchestra, all of them composed entirely of recent
graduates of local high schools. They meet weekly
and they are usually engaged in preparing for
concerts or musical performances. Such groups
offer those who have persisted in musical en-
deavor through the high school and college years

516

Music and i

an opportunity to continue without interruption
the splendid training received in the schools.

Each year new groups are formed. More and
more musically educated young people are fed into
the music activities of the community, and by this
process, because the framework of organization
has been perfected, the Department looks forward
to a much more extensive community music pro-
gram in Los Angeles.

The success of the so-called alumni music
groups is due chiefly, it is believed, to two fac-
tors. One is that only recent graduates of high
school are eligible and these groups are composed
almost entirely of those who have not continued
their education in college or university. The fact
that they are all of comparatively one age means
that they find great pleasure in being together and
that many find social activities developed as a by-
product of the plan.

The second factor which should be emphasized
is that only the best type of leadership can be
considered for these groups. The leader must
not only be competent musically but must have
had experience in handling young people. It has
been advantageous to enlist the teachers of high
school music on a part—time basis for leadership
in the alumni music groups as this insures lead-
ership familiar with the problems of youth, and
provides the necessary liaison between the com-
munity and the school programs.

After several years of operation leaders among
the young people themselves are emerging. Some
of these have organized groups of their own from
the alumni groups. One young leader has been
so successful that he has been given a part-time
appointment to organize another alumni chorus
in a near-by neighborhood. The department antici-
pates more and more of such leadership to be de-
veloped through the activity.

The Individual Groups

The amateur music groups now active in Los
Angeles include four large choruses of which
three are alumni—the Los Angeles Civic Chorus
composed of three hundred men and women of
varying ages, the Choral Crafters Chorus of forty-
live, the symphonic chorus or choir to which ap-
proximately forty-five Alumni belong, and the
Rhapsodians which boasts of an equal number of

---)

 

members. There is also a symphony orchestra
whose members are alumni.

The original chorus was the Los Angeles Civic
Chorus previously organized as a civic body which
was transferred some years ago to the Recreation
Department where it has been developing to its
present large membership and national standing,
especially in broadcasting, and is also used for
singing in many civic and playground programs.

The activities of the groups consist of weekly
rehearsal meetings at various playground centers
when preparation is made for the presentation of
operas, concerts and other- programs. The pro—
grams are put on at playground centers or in
school auditoriums fOr which a small admission
is charged to cover the cost of production, any
surplus which may accrue being turned into the
general fund of each group. Membership drives
are carried on by the different groups through
dances or social get-togethers to which friends of
the members are invited. This results in interest-
ing many to become members.

Among other music groups which should be
mentioned are the Exposition Orchestra of ten
boys and girls between ten and fifteen years of
age; the Concert Orchestra
made up of twenty-five men and

The Girls' Municipal Orchestra at
Wilkes-Barre ready for a concert

e Municipal Recreation Program

women; the Boys’ Hollywood Trumpeteers of
twenty-four boys; and the Barnsdall-Harvard
Recreation and Opera Club with thirty-eight
members. In addition, there are two radio clubs

and a number of harmonica bands, toy bands and
whistling groups.

The expense to the Playground and Recreation
Department in maintaining the groups lies in the
following: salaries of the chorus and orchestra
directors; supervision of activities; the supplying
of weekly meeting quarters; the furnishing of a
part of the music used and the guaranteeing of
production budgets and meeting of any deficit in
attendance receipts. The department also loans
musical instruments belonging to the department
if the players do not own their own instruments.

As an example of the type of musical perform-
ance given on September 17th in the Griffiths Park
outdoor Greek Theater the department presented
a program in commemoration of Constitution Day
which was called the “Festival of Song and
Music.” Over four hundred members of chorus,
orchestra and radio club groups sponsored by the
department participated in the festival which was
a splendid artistic success, Many selections of

sacred, patriotic and classical

music were rendered. The com-
(Continued on page 538)

 

517

Society of Recreation Workers of America

the employed recreation workers was com—

pleted with the unanimous adoption of a
constitution, and on October 6th officers were
elected, again unanimously. The fine cooperative
Spirit in which problems were faced and worked
out' will long be remembered. With reason, the
recreation workers were proud of what they had
accomplished. There had been full opportunity
for discussion and finally unanimous votes.

V. K. Brown had served as Chairman of the
Steering Committee and Arthur T. Noren as Sec-
retary. F. S. Mathewson had given much leader-
ship to working out the constitution.

The other members of the Steering Committee
were: W. Duncan Russell, Boston, Mass; George
Hjelte, Los Angeles, Calif. ; Josephine Blackstock,
Oak Park, 111.; Charles H. English, Philadelphia,
Pa.; W. C. Cammack, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. ; Kath-
ryn Krieg, Des Moines, Iowa; A. 0. Anderson,
St. Louis, Mo.; Josephine Randall, San Fran—
cisco, Ca1if.; Ernest Johnson, St. Paul, Minn.;
J. J. Syme, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Tam
Deering, Cincinnati, Ohio; Nash Higgins, Tampa,
Fla.; C. R. Wood, Durham, N. C., and the Sec-
retary of the National Recreation Association.
The members of the Nominating Committee
were: Charles H. English, Kathryn Krieg, and
Raymond W. Robertson.

At the October 6th, 1938 meeting the officers
and geographical representatives elected were:

President, V.K. Brown, Director of Recreation,
Chicago Park District, Chicago, Ill.

First Vice-President, George Hjelte, Superin-
tendent, Department of Playgrounds and Recrea—
tion, Los Angeles, Calif.

Second Vice—President, Dorothy C. Enderis,
Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education, Milwaukee, Wis.

Secretary, Arthur T. Noren,
Superintendent of Recreation,
Elizabeth, N. 

Treasurer, Lewis Barrett,
Coordinator and Executive
Secretary, District of Colum-
bia Recreation Committee,

Washington, D. C.

ON OCTOBER 3rd, 1938, the organization of

518

It is suggested that recreation work-
ers interested in securing a copy of
the constitution of the Society of
Recreation Workers of America or
desiring further information regard-
ing the organization communicate

with Arthur T. NorenI Secretary. at
City Hall, Elizabethl New Jersey.

Geographical Representatives

New England—Ernest Hermann, Superintend«
ent of Playgrounds, West Newton, Mass; J. S.
Stevens. Superintendent of Recreation, Green-
wich, Conn.

Mid-Atlantic -— John V. Smith, Acting Chief.
Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public
Welfare, Philadelphia, Pa.; H. S. Callowhill, Ex-

ecutive Director, Playground Athletic League,
Baltimore, Md.

Canada—Eastern—\Villiam Bowie, Executive
Secretary Montreal Parks and Playgrounds As-
sociation, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; J. J. Syme,
Superintendent of Playgrounds, Hamilton, On-
tario, Canada.

Canada— I/Vestem——— Ian Eisenhardt, Depart-
ment of Education, British Columbia, Canada;
George W ard, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.

East C entraln-C. E. Brewer, Commissioner of
Recreation, Detroit, Mich. ; Russell J. Foval, Su-
perintendent of Recreation, Alton, Ill.

South Eastern—R. S. Marshall, Superintend-
ent of Parks and Recreation, Birmingham, Ala.;
K. Mark Cowen, Director of Parks and Recrea—
tion, Roanoke, Va.

South W estern—Lucyle Godwin, Director of
Recreation, Monroe, La. ; Ralph H. Schulze, Su—
perintendent of Recreation, Waco, Texas.

Mid-Western—Ernest W. Johnson, Superin-
tendent of Playgrounds, St. Paul, Minn; R. K.
Bliss, Director, Extension Service, Iowa State
College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Ames,
Iowa; Frank C. Kammerlohr, Superintendent of
Recreation, Great Falls, Mont.; Howard Beres-
ford, State Director, WPA Recreation Project,
Denver, Colo.

Pacific—*George Vestal, Department of Recrea-
tion, Oakland, Calif.; Ben Evans, Superintend—
ent of Playgrounds, Seattle,
\Nash.

Fir/e at large -— De Hart
Hubbard, Public Recreation
Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio;
F. S. Mathewson", Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Union
County Park Commission,

(Continued on page 540)

An Experiment in Leadership

ERVICE LEADERSHIP of a voluntary nature has
S been known to recreation executives since the
inception of playground programs. Its value
is reflected in the reduction of certain factors of
routine administration that continually harass and
burden a playground personnel which is usually
limited in numbers. It has been maintained “that
experimentation with the tool of service leader-
ship would be effective both in aiding the admin-
istration of the program and in terms of person-
ality development for children who have practi-
cally lost their identity in homes of pitiful in-
security.

Hell’s Kitchen is an appropriate name for the
areas immediately surrounding the Morton Play-
ground where a predominantly colored popula—
tion, highly impoverished, forms the nucleus of a
widely divergent socio-economic grouping of in-
dividuals. Children with this community heritage
have, by virtue of their birth, heavy odds to
combat.

The personality factor is, in the opinion of
many, one of the most serious considerations in-
volved in the question of encouraging leadership,
and it was primarily with this in mind that our
experiment was undertaken. The objective of
service, although of great importance, was felt
to be secondary.

A Junior Service Leadership
Plan on a Large Scale

Our experimental plan of
leadership, which has shown en-
couraging results, differs from
. most other systems in that it con-
sists of an almost supernumery
force of leaders, though not a
superfluous number. It is our
conviction that the molding of
such a large group into a well or-
ganized, functioning corps, has
gone far towards balancing play-
ground forces. It will be noted,
too, that the leadership system
described is of a service type
only. Achievement, it was felt,
was undesirable as a goal, as the
emphasis would then become a
striving for skill perfection and

By LEWIS K. SILVERMAN

Play Leader
Morton Community Center
Newark. New Jersey

is contrary to the real reason for encouraging
leadership.

The number of leaders involved in this experi-
ment approaches sixty and will exceed seventy
before the maximum is reached. This is made
possible by an arrangement whereby each leader
serves for a minimum of three hour periods a
week under a plan of assignments which is posted
on the leaders’ bulletin board. If a leader wishes
additional assignments beyond his regular three
hours per week, he submits his request to a stan
member.

Morton Playground has found leadership most
desirable for the following functions: library as-
sistance, hall duty, playground and play room aid,
checkroom duty, and secretarial work. The sec-
retarial work mentioned is in conjunction with
records of the leaders’ corps. It holds particular
value as an added channel of service for girls.

 

Courtesy Reading, Pa., Department of Public Playground: and Recreation

519

520 AN EXPERIMENT IN LEADERSHIP

Personality Considerations

The interests of the leaders are not the chief
determinants in the selection of service activities.

The staff member suggests very subtly the service
for which he believes the leader is best suited and
from which he may benefit most. More important
than the initial placement of leaders is continual
alertness as to their adaptability, and speedy re-
adjustment to procure the desired effects. The
writer is reminded of one instance in which it
seemed almost impossible to find a station for a
leader. He was disliked by nearly every one and
any duty which involved social contact invariably
brought friction. Each time this conflict would
occur the lad gave vent to tears and threatened to
leave his leader’s job. His was distinctly a per-
sonality difficulty. A special conference of the
staff members was held and
a clear picture of his type of
behavior was sketched, as
each staff member had ob-
served him under different
conditions. It was decided to
give him the most non-social
activity available — the ar-
ranging of books in the li-
brary room. After several
weeks of this type of work,
during which suggestions
were offered, indirectly, as to
how to get along with people,
he took the initiative in requesting the task that
had previously caused him difficulty. This time,
however, he has made a successful effort at ad-
justment. Not all difficulties are solved so easily.
Eternal vigilance is the price demanded for real
success.

Mention should be made of the principle un-
derlying the recruiting of leaders. The type of
child who needs the duties of leadership most
seems to be the one who is continually unoc-
cupied. This, in itself, is a sign of maladjustment,
and it is this type of child who should be ap-
proached first. The second source of leadership
lies in the group that becomes curious about the
various bulletin board announcements making ref-
erence to activities of leaders. When the children
make inquiries about these announcements, the
staff member talks diplomatically about the stand-
ards of the organization, its highly selective cali-
bre, and the benefits that can be derived. Invari-
ably the child asks how he can join. This request

I'The training boys receive through our
leaders' club isI in my opinionI a defi-
nite asset in later
to carry through definite assignmentsl
to be courteous. dependablel coopera-
tive and of help to others. When they
participate in the program they uncon-
sciously set a good example for other
children to follow. The successful results
attained are readily seen in the develop-
ment of better playground children."
—Miles G. Stroap, DirectorI Mor-
ton Playground and Community Center.

life. They learn

is met politely but with not too great a show of
warmth, one reservation being made—the boy
may join if some reputable person will vouch for
his behavior and if he can procure the approval
of the director. In nearly every instance the
director approves, but first he makes an ostenta-
tious appearance of pondering over the advisa-
bility of admitting this applicant. Finally he ap-
proves, after impressing the child again with the
selective qualities of the leaders’ group. \Ve find
this helps greatly in imbueing the child with a
feeling of respect for the opportunity given him
and a desire to make good.

The Insignia of Honor

From a child’s point of view, an element as in-
tangible as personality development is not an ob-
jective. Definite inducements must be offered.
Quite successful is the
promise of a certificate upon
the attainment of 500 points
of credit. One hour of ser-
vice will normally gain for
the leader five points; how-
ever, during the winter an
hour of service out-of-doors
merits six points. When the
leader passes the 300 point
mark and shows by his ac-
tions that he is entitled to an
emblem, he is given one. This
emblem is nothing more than
a thin piece of felt cut into an “M,” initial of the
center. The girls will gladly make these emblems.

The leader who passes the 300 point mark is
entitled to wear a badge while on duty. It is be-
lieved that if a leader has discharged his duties
with honor to the extent of amassing 300 points
he will be able to wear his badge without being
overcome by it. It is then little more than a
means of identification of good leaders. Thus the
deleterious effects of badge-wearing are, under the
circumstances, considerably lowered, and the
privilege of wearing a badge is made to depend
not on mere points, but on freedom from “cocki-
ness” and genuine qualities of character.

Occasionally it is well to stress the honor which
the awarding of a certificate represents. If the
certificate can be awarded during a regular school
assembly the child feels the honor to be a very
special one. From a practical point of view, the
records of the leaders, as they grow older and

(Continued on page 540)

is There Carry-Over from Camp

" HOSE OF US who be-_
lieve whole-heartedly
in camping,” says Har-

old E. Wands, “recognize
that it should be an on-go—
ing experience, not just an
affair of eight weeks in the
summer. What can we do
to make camp a continuing
factor in the lives of our
campers?”

Among the various suggestions which have been
offered in an attempt to answer this question, the
following seem very much worth while.

Earning, or saving, some part of one’s own
money for camp.

Family excursions and activities which utilize
camping skills and interests.

Family discussions on the fun of camping; an
understanding interest in camp ways on the part
of brothers, sisters, and parents.

Membership in own age group which has a
year—around outdoor plan such as school clubs,
Scouting, outing and hiking clubs, Audubon So-
cieties, and so forth.

Association with camp friends or leadership
from own community or school.

Correspondence or occasional meetings with
members of camp staff or other campers.

Reading interesting books on outdoor activities,
camping, pioneering in the early days, frontier
life, and so forth.

Out-of-door hobby which can be carried on in
camp and at home.

Definite camp interests incorporated in winter
activities which may be done indoors, such as the
swimming program suggested by the American
Red Cross, wild animals, pets, museum groups,
dramatic production, and other interests.

worth while to

Keeping in Touch with Campers

My Impressions of Camp. Encourage youngsters
to write of their camp experiences and impres—
sions. Publish the best in periodic bulletins.

Recognition of Birthdays. A simple card or a
brief letter received on the occasion of a birthday
will provide a real thrill for the camper.

Monthly Bulletins. A mimcographed edition of
the camp paper sent regularly through the winter

The October issue of The Camping M aga-
zine contains two articles on the carry-
over values of summer camp experiences.
These are "Summer Camp Goes into Winter
Quarters," by Edith M. Conantl and "Camp
as a Continuing Experience.II by Harold E.
Wands. In this article we present a few
extracts from these two articles. We
suggest that those of our readers who are
interested in camping will find it well
read these articles.

Experiences?

months will help keep alive
camp spirit, bind campers
together, and serve as a
constant reminder.
September—Refer to the
season ust closed and the
value of continuing worth-
while elements of the
camp experience. A list
of home addresses of

counselo rs may prove
valuable.

October—News of campers and counselors. An
article on “Hallowe’en” or the colors of camp
in the fall. Notice of coming events.

N ovember—Thanksgiving theme, including thank-
fulness for camp and a thought for the less
fortunate. Advance notices of reunions, and
news of campers.

DecembermMake it a Christmas remembrance; a
bit of poetry, a sprig of evergreen, or a picture
of camp in winter. Final announcement of re-
union plans.

fanuary—Resolve: to make the next camp season
the best ever. Announce counselors who will

return. From now on emphasize the coming
season.

February—A story about camp in mid-winter 01
possible emphasis on Washington, Lincoln, or
Valentine’s Day. A statement concerning new
projects under way, and more news of coun-
selors and campers.

M arch—A feature concerning the Lenten season
or plans for a Vesper Service. Announce pre—
liminary plans for the coming season, and se-
cure names and addresses of campers. Advance
notice of a Spring Reunion. It is interesting
to the youngsters to tabulate the number of
months, weeks, days, hours, minutes to the
opening of camp.

April-May-fzme—These issues should be Filled
with details of plans for the approaching sea—
son. News preparatory to opening camp.
Spring is in the air. How long until camp?
Return of old counselors, reunions, meetings of
counselors, and similar.

521

522 IS THERE CARRY-OVER FROM CAMP EXPERIENCES?

Reunions. Make much of reunions. Many
camps hold reunions at some central point during
Christmas holidays, providing a place to swim,
eats, entertainment, and reminders of camp. If
the camp constituency is not too widely separated,
monthly parties may be successful. A Spring Re-
union “peps” things up for the coming season.
Make invitations and content of reunions attrac-
tive. It is worth it not to count the cost too care-
fully. Camp movies are always effective; tent re-
unions, under guidance of the counselor, are

highly successful.

Chain Letters. Tent groups keep in touch by
circulating letters; attach to the letter list of dates
and person to whom letter is finally sent.

Work at Camp. If camp is not too far away, the
director or responsible counselor might take a few
campers to camp on week-ends for the purpose of
working on special projects.

Winter Camping. In locations where this may
be feasible, a whole field of opportunity for con-
tact and continuing camp experience exists.

Minute Man Service. One camp reports this idea
for rapid contact with campers by means of tele-
phone: campers divided into geographic areas
headed by counselor or responsible adult; areas
divided into units headed by a team captain. A
call goes from headquarters to the area heads or
counselors, who in turn call the team captains, and
the team captains contact each member of their
respective teams personally.

Keeping in Touch with Counselors

Letters. Most of our counselors are located at
widely divergent points between camp season and
the only point of contact is by correspondence.
This is important, and if they are too numerous
for personal letters, an occasional form letter may
be valuable.

Correspondence Courses. All of our counselors
need training and information which will keep
them abreast of the rapid development of the
camping movement.

Encourage Camper Contact. Suggest visitation
or correspondence between counselor and camper.
Tent reunions, birthday remembrances and letters
make important contacts.

Training Courses. Available leaders may be en-
rolled in training courses.

Counselor Fraternity. If circumstances permit,
an organization of counselors, both present and
former, can be most worthwhile for both mem-
bers and camp. Junior counselors could have a
similar organization.

Keeping in Touch with Parents

Letters. At close of the camp season a letter to
parents would prove interest in the child as an in-
dividual. This letter should be appreciative and
in no degree critical. Problems should be met by

personal contact only.

Questionnaire. Sometimes a questionnaire may
be used. A 40% return would be about the maxi-
mum, but occasionally the results are significant
in the study of camp values from a parental view-
point.

Parents at Reunions. The atmosphere of camp
reunions is undoubtedly more realistic when par-
ents are not present, but on occasion it may be
beneficial to all concerned if parents are included.

Home Visitation. No other contact compares
with the visit to the home. Make it a social and
friendly visit and the business angle will take care
of itself.

Parent Association. Where conditions permit,
an organization of parents may serve as a wel-
fare group and assist camp in many ways. In
some instances a separate group of fathers or
mothers may be advisable.

Parents as Committeemen. No persons are more
vitally concerned with the policy and conduct of
our camps than those parents who are aware of
the values of the camp experience as evidenced in
the lives of their children. If the committee serves
as a governing body, a majority group of parents
might not provide unbiased judgment, but a rep-
resentation would unquestionably make a definite
contribution.

“The best campers we have ever had, and those
who prohted more enduringly from what was of-
fered, came from homes or from groups where
camping was understood and honored for what it
really is: the culminating point of a winter’s work
well done, the place for delightful experiences and
adventure not possible in our daily environment,
the place for developing self-reliance and spiritual

,values which are absorbed and used to add strength,

imagination, and fresh impetus to the business of
the average young person—his education and -
preparation for Iife.”—Edith W. Conant.

With the

American Institute of Park Executives

ARK NEWS is real news. Publicizevyour sys-
Ptem, not yourselves. The park business is the

people’s business. Parks are for the service
of all of the people. Park executives must con—
stantly tell the people what the parks offer or they
will not be park-conscious. Only education will
secure money for park development and program.

These were among the suggestions offered and
accepted by. the 647 delegates attending the thirty-
ninth annual convention of park executives.

The problems of small town parks were con-
stantly in the minds of many executives. How to
secure areas; how to finance facilities secured by
WPA grants; how to police small town areas;
what fees and charges are fair and acceptable;
these were among the many topics under discus-
sion. The auto was praised as an instrument of

extending the park’s range and service. It was.

dubbed a vicious problem because it made park
construction and maintenance more costly. Too
many drives are required. Autos should have ac-
cess to park borders, then people should walk.

Public buildings should not be in parks. Golf
courses, rose gardens, tennis, bowls—all these
raise the costs forever. These factors must be
considered in planning.

Park Cost

Robert Kingery of the Chicago Regional Plan—
ning Commission spoke on “Park Costs.” In I1—
linois, the cost is $10 per acre. Milwaukee County
has a cost of $60 per acre per year. In 161 cities

the costs were given as follows:
24 Parks in Cook County reached $420 per acre

29 " " Illinois “ “ 74 “ “
26 H H  H H  N H
82 H H  H H  l‘ (I

The highest cost per acre was $1,452; the low-
est, $20. The average for 16 cities was $103.

As to the cost per capita of users, $2.39 was
high, I2¢ was low. The average was 89¢.

Evanston, Illinois, with 88 acres or 2.6 per cent
objective, showed 53¢ per capita user; Oak Park
$1.23. Glencoe, with 19 acres to 1,000 population,
showed $122 per year maintenance, while Berwyn,

At the 39th Annual Convention in
Milwaukee, September l8-22, l938

with .4 acres to 1,000 population, showed a cost
of $300 per year, indicating an increase of acre-
age and a decrease in cost of maintenance.

Principles of Good Design

The efforts of the Federal and CCC projects to

develop general principles of good design was the
subject considered by S. Herbert Hare of Kansas

-City. Among these principles were the following:

I. To preserve characteristics of flora and fauna.

2. Types of recreation related to picnics and
scenery.

3. Historical, biological, geological features re-
tained.

4. Baseball and golf in parks near cities.

' 5. State parks are to the state what Federal

parks are to the nation.

6. Should be from 500 to 1,000 acres in state
parks.

Preserve forests and lakes.

90>!

Recreational use subject to local conditions.

9. Turnout places at scenic points under State
Park Department supervision and located at
stream crossings and high spots.

10. Roadways should preserve natural boundaries.

11. A Mississippi highway from Minnesota to
Louisiana.

12. Wild life preserved. All state parks should
also be wild life preserves.

13. Natural scenery should be preserved.

14. Provide shelter and recreational areas for
human use; this involves aesthetic udgment.

15. Roads limited.

I6. Entrance at one point; parking places not on
road.

17. Roads should follow topography of land.
18. Reduce speed of driving to minimum.

523

524 PVITH THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PARK EXECUTIVES

IQ. Prevent unnecessary scarring of hillsides.

20. Provide overnight cabins, possibly a hotel, lo-
cated at area of concentrated use.

21. Main shelter with concessions and boat
houses, etc.

22. Don’t ruin landscape by poor buildings; they
should merge into the landscape.

Swimming Pools

Mr. Klassen of the Illinois State Sanitary Com-
mission spoke on the subject, “Sanitation of
Pools.” He shocked his audience by stating that
swimming pools are pretty dirty at the best. They
are not much better than dilute sewage in being
sources of pollution. The big problem is to con-
trol the causes. Clean up bathers before entering
the pool, he said. This is a hard thing to do. Even
clean people need to bathe. A pool sinks to the
level of its least desirable bather. Regulations and
personal inspections were stressed for:

I. Evidence of disease. He mentioned one pool
where 200 cases of syphilis were discovered.

. Provide warm water and soap for bathers.

Statue of Liberty bathing caps.

Private showers. Believes one such enough

and would solve the problem of the person

who wants privacy. '

. Quality of water. Some places advertise water
pure enough to drink that isn’t clean enough
for swimming.

6. Turbidity to

be watched——

p r e v e n t

drownings —

c a u s i n g

g r 0 w t h o f

algy. There

should be a

turnover in

water every
six hours.

to

439°

(11

'Perennial border
at Lyndale Park,
one of the aH'rac- _
five parks of 

Minneapolis 1 '

7. Trained personnel is needed to run as well as
supervise a pool. Operating a pool is no pic—
nic; there are problems of the engineer who
runs the city water system and many more.
Operation reports are very valuable.

8. Pool location is of vital importance; it should
not be too near a railroad because of soot.

9. Transportation and parking a problem.

IO. As to size, the desire for big pools is danger-
ous from a sanitation point of view.

I I. Provide a non-climbable barrier between pool
and sand box, wading pool or grass lawns.

12. Recommended bath houses of the open court
dressing room type. Pitch in floor 3 inches
in ten feet.

I 3. Recommended three sets of toilets: one for
spectators, one for wet people and one for
dry people.

I4. Not scum gutters but overflow gutters, open
type, so arranged as not to permit diving
from gutters. '

15. Walk areas concrete. Pitched 3 inches to ten
feet with a curb outside to prevent dirt wash-
ing into p001.

R. E. Behrens of Milwaukee County spoke on
swimming pool design. He referred to the special
help that government had given in stimulating

(Continued on page 541)

 
    

.1 ' I ‘
a h— s
_ 4,". N" . _ .x- v ‘ _. *5".

Courtesy Park: and Recreation

We Too Are Happy!

tomed to the home hre—

side and assembled rela-
tives at Christmas time, it
may be a surprising thought
that Christmas in a hospital,
away from home and family,
can also be made into fun.

If you could look into the
Crippled Children’s Ward of
Noyes Hospital in Columbia,
Missouri, on any day be-
tween now and Christmas, you would find a group
of happy, busy youngsters. Some are writing let-
ters, each to tell Santa Claus just whathe wants
most for Christmas—perhaps a train that runs, or
a big black dog that barks, or a doll with eyes
that shut and open. .

In the “Tinker Shop” linoleum blocks are be-
ing cut out so that each child may have his own
hand—made Christmas cards. There is general exs
citement in the air as plans and decorations are
being made for the Christmas party. Tinsel and
bells are hung up in the ward, and there is a
Christmas tree and a mantel in the corner where
the stockings are hung up for a week or more
before Christmas. The climax will not come until
Christmas Eve, when Santa Claus himself calls
in person at the ward to deliver just what each
child asked for in his letter.

To THOSE WHO are accus-

Months, even years, in a hospital with a con-
stant round of operations and casts is not a pleas-
ant thought. Yet in the ten years I have observed
the occupants of the Children’s Ward of Noyes
Hospital who are brought in from all over the
state for treatment by the Missouri State Crip-
pled Children’s Service, I have found not despond-
ency and despair, but rather an enthusiasm and an
outlook of hopefulness. Perhaps their whole
evaluation of the situation is best summed up in
that statement which is heard often in the ward,
“N ow I can be like the other kids I”

There are some possible explanations for the
happinesss which persists where gloom and de-
spair might be expected to thrive.

In the first place, the physically defective child
iinds that in the hospital he is only one of a group
of children each of whom is handicapped or de-

By HAZEL STEWARD, M. A.

It's not as difficult as you
might think to be happy in a
hospital which has a"Tinl<er
Shop," lots of things to do,
and where,at Christmas, ioy-
ousness is in the very airl

fective in some way. In this
group he feels happier and
more at ease than when he is
with normal children who
may regard him as different,
or even as an object for fa-
voritism or pity. In the hos—
pital group there are some
one or more particular things
each child cannot do, but
there are also certain things
which each can do not only
for himself but for other children. Children who
cannot read are read to by those who can. Those
who can walk, even on crutches, bring water to
those who must remain in bed.

One day a nurse discovered that an enterpris-
ing little Irish boy had accumulated several pen-
nies. She made inquiry and was told, “I charge
them a penny a drink.” Perhaps it would be
worth a penny for a trip to the fountain and back,
managing a cup of water besides one’s braces and
a pair of crutches!

Some of the children have come from homes
not only bare of material comforts but also de-
void of affection and consideration. To such chil-
dren the hospital offers not only the most com—
fortable environment they have ever had, but
here they have also the novel experience of being
loved and cared for. It is not enough to straighten
the Spine or heal the burn or make the legs of
equal length. In the hospital every effort is made
to restore to the child emotional balance and to
fill his days with interesting and worthwhile
activities.

One room of the hospital is known as the “Tin—
ker Shop” where children may work from eight
to eleven o’clock each morning. Here, under di-
rection, tiny hands use cast-off orange crates to
construct wooden toys and finish them in gay
colors. There are enameled elephant doorstops
and little Dutch boys with blue trOUsers, yellow
hair, and big red buttons. The children learn the
knack of finger-painting and bring into being de-
signs both attractive and weird. They weave lit-
tle rugs and doilies on hand looms. They model
clay and make papier-maché masks. One little girl
who undertook to embroider vegetables on dish

(Continued on page 542)
525

You Asked for It!

Question: I have heard of groups called the
Play Right Clubs. Can you give me informa-
tion regarding them?

Answer: The Play Right Club is not another
organization. It is a game, an attitude toward
life expressed through play. It is composed of
individuals and groups of individuals who be-
lieve in constructive, creative, cooperative
playing and thinking. Anyone who plays the
game belongs. The Play Right Club originated
with children and is their own.

Honesty, fairness, courage and industry and
the underlying principles of our national life.
Upon them depend life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness. Yesterday’s children eXpressed
these things spontaneously when they played
at being mother, father, doctor, teacher,
minister, storekeeper or pioneer. Today’s
children play with toy guns. The cowboy, one
of our earliest American institutions, has be-
come in the eyes of children, a highly special—
ized and glamorous killer, who rides out on
his pont and shoots people. The Indian is a
killer. The policeman is a sort of overlord of
questionable motives. He takes people to jail
and makes them pay to get out. The hero is a
glorified’gangster. Cops and robbers is played
universally. These ideas produce upon the
child’s mind a false outlook on life and create
wrong social attitudes.

What do children think about it? The Play
Right Club holds an answer since it originated
with children. We were holding a Story Hour
in a slum district in Chicago. “That policeman
was a helper!” exclaimed a boy in surprise at
the end of a story. “That is what policemen
are for—to help,” I said. “We’ll be your
helpers,” said the children. “Very well,” I
said. Then to assure their returning another
time I added, “How would you like to play
you have a club? We shall need a name.”
“Yes,” responded the children, “\Ne will call
it the Play Right Club because we will play
the policeman right.” Thus the children on
their own initiative conceived the idea of play-
ing all characters correctly and as they should
be portrayed.

One day a group of boys and girls were
earnestly considering the cowboy. The con-

526

versation turned to Will Rogers. The children
learned he was of Scotch, Irish and Indian
descent—Irish for humor and generosity,
Scotch for business ability and Indian for
dignity and reserve—a great combination his
biographer, Mr. P. J. O’Brien, assures us.

Talking of Will Rogers we learned that cow-
boys worked long days, often with almost no
time for sleeping; that they not only drive
cattle in all kinds of weather, but build fences'
around dangerous places, clean out water
holes, light fires and do many things for the
protection of their cattle.

We had progressed this far when one of the
children said, “When can we have a cowboy
play?” “Now,” I replied. “There is the stage.”
“This is a real cattle cowboy play,” he an-
nounced. The boys fell to work building a
corrall; girls helped as horses. The fence-
mender examined the corrall; cook, chuck
wagon driver, and singing cowboy arrived.
Will Rogers came as guest of honor, bringing
his kindly jokes. There were contests, a cow-
boy relay race, and songs in which all joined.

\Vhen the cowboy becomes to the child the
picturesque American pioneer, noted for
strength, courage, strenuous work, endurance
and devotion, it does something to him. He
sees beyond cheap display and pageantry and
chooses that which is of real value. Thug and
bandit drop of their own weight and are no
longer interesting.

The Play Right Club has the simplest and
most democratic plan possible. It gives no
honors or rewards, has no officers and exacts
no charges. This is not because these things in
themselves are not desirable, but rather be-
cause the club having begun as story hours in
which such features were unnecessary. has
come to stand for free, spontaneous living to-
gether in the home or on the street among
one’s associates. It exchanges the glamor of
gangsterism for the fascination of a club. It
is adaptable for groups in churches, parks and
playgrounds, schools, libraries, settlements
and dooryard groups.

The Plav Right Club is a play group. It is
a game. \Vhoever plays the game belongs.

—Bertha illarz'lda Rhodes. Minneapolis.

WORLD

A Photographic
Contést

THREE hundred and
thirty-four photo-
graphs were submitted
for the amateur photo
contest conducted by
the Park Department
of New York City.
Awards were given for four of the photographs
and honorary mention was made of seven others.

The picture shown here won third place in the
contest.

AN interesting ex—
hibit recently shown
at the Newark, New
Jersey, Museum, in-
cluded playthings from many parts of the
world, chiefly of nineteenth and twentieth
century manufacture, although a few dated
back to the seventeenth century. Dolls were
shown in great variety, many of them dressed
in national costumes representing a dozen
countries. The oldest was a French doll made
before 1683. Two doll houses were exhibited
completely furnished in every detail; one in
Victorian style, the other of modern period.
Toys were of almost every description, and a
number of toys of modern manufacture were
selected to illustrate life in other lands. Those
of olden times recalled the youth of our grand—
fathers. Particularly stirring to Victorian
memories were the peep shows which took
various forms from the simplest arrangement
of cut—out pictures to real model stages.

Newark Toy Show
Stirs Memories

HIKING has been
one of the special
events of the year in
Berkeley, one hun—
dred and six hikes were planned and managed
for the club, showing a total registered at—
tendance of 4,022 persons, an increase of 1,127
persons over the same period last year. There

The Hiking Club
of Berkeley

 

Photo by M. Moskowitz, New York City

AT P LAY

were sixty-six day-
time hikes and ten
overnight camping
and hiking trips.

New York City’s
Swimming Pools

' 4.:

IN 1937, the first year
of operation, 2,371,983
patrons visited the pools of which 678,040 were
children admitted free during week-day mornings.
923,529 were children who paid a 10-cent admis-
sion charge and 770,414 were adults who paid
twenty cents, giving a total revenue to the city
for paid admissions of $246,435.70. During the
past summer three old floating baths in the Hud-
son River were completely reconstructed into a
single unit providing two pools and dressing fa-
cilities for men and women. This floating swim-

ming pool has proven one of the popular recrea-
tion attractions in the city.

FIGURES compiled
by the Los Angeles,
California, Play-
. ground and Recrea-
tion Department for the period between June 25th
and September 11th, show that 6,364,691 visitors
enoyed the Los Angeles municipal beaches; swim-
ming pools entertained a splashing throng of
443,005; an attendance of 3,377,111 was recorded
at playgrounds, and 42,785 campers’ days were
counted at municipal camps. In spite of the record
crowds there was not one drowing in Los Angeles
municipal strands. According to Recreation De—
partment officials, this is a tribute to the accident
prevention program and the effective rescue work
of the corps of municipal life guards.

Not One
Fatality

THE United States
Travel Bureau has
opened new Western
headquarters in the
Sheldon Building, San Francisco, nearly a year
ahead of schedule in order to cooperate with

527

When You Travel
In 1939!

528 WORLD AT PLAY

    
 
  
  
   
  
   
    
  

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
    
   
  

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stoke Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

the 1939 Golden Gate International Exposition
and its “See all the West in ’39” travel pro-
gram. The Bureau will assist those interested
in recreational travel in the United States and
its territories. Inquiries will be answered and
travel stimulation work will be carried into
schools, libraries and organizations. Inquiries
concerning rates and on specific transportation
and accommodations will be referred to private
travel agencies. The Bureau will confine its
activities to the broader aspects of geography
and natural wonders, assisting in planning
“hobby trips” for maximum fun and education,
to suit the individual’s taste and purse.

Musical Broadcasts — The most extensive
series of symphonic programs ever offered to the
American radio audience was inaugurated by the
National Broadcasting Company on October
17th, when the first of ninety concerts to be
broadcast this season from Rochester. New

York, was heard over the coast to coast NBC

ginning with the initial concert on October

17th, by the Rochester Civic Orchestra from
3 :00 to 3 :45 P. M., over the NBC blue network.
Among the orchestras broadcasting, in addi-
tion to the Rochester Civic Orchestra, are the
Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra and the
Eastman School of Music Orchestra.

Miniature Aircraft—Miniature aircraft ac—
tivity in Westchester County was one of the
most attractive hobbies during the past sum-
mer. Over 402 children attended classes held
by thirty-eight local leaders in recreation in
different parts of the county. Over 1,600
miniature aircraft designs of various kinds
were made by participants.

Understanding the Child’s Needs — Herbert
R. Stolz, chairman of the National Education
Association Committee on Individual Guid-
ance, writing in the Journal of the National
Education Association for October, I938, urges
that each child has need of belonging to a
group; that each child also needs to have one
or more strong friends; that a third need of
a growing child is to understand the require-
ments of the world in which he lives.

Recreation can help with all three of these
fundamental needs of children.

Photographic Study of Marine Life—Near
St. Augustine, Florida, a radical departure
from the standard type of aquarium has been
made. Two aquaria which are said to be dif-
ferent from anything in the world have been
built. The windows are so arranged that
visitors view exhibits from above and the
major requirement in the construction has been
to make the best photography possible. The
effect is to give the action of a porpoise, for
instance, as seen from the standpoint of
another porpoise. These aquaria have given an
entirely new view of ocean sharks and their
habits. The marine studios with these outdoor
facilities give a vast opportunity to make
valuable scientific studies to which neither
straight held work nor laboratory work lends
itself in any appropriate sense.

Square Dance Clubs—Square dancing has
become very popular in El Paso, Texas, ac—
cording to James R. Clossin, Assistant Super-
intendent, WPA Project No. 9926, in that city.
He writes that at the present time there are

WORLD AT PLAY

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BoARo GAME 551% -,
MALABLE CAST IRON - WHITE PLATED . 

    
   

    
  
  
 
 

ONE SET cons:srs OF 4 PUSH CUES and Will
6 DISC ( 3 A's and 3 5'5) cums,
PRICE $I2.°° per set , Delivered 2 or 3

CURVED FRONT GIVES
posmvt CONTROL IN

SHOOTING THE DISC.
BRASS PIVOT.

 
 
 
  
    
  

PATENT!“
AND MIGR-

I4I7 - 80th. Ave. CHAS. H.WILSON Oakland,Calif.

 

 

twenty-five or thirty square dance clubs in
the city. Last August a public square dance
festival was held, attended by from 1,200 to
1,400 people. Mr. Clossin is personally con-
ducting beginners’ classes in square and old-
time dances six nights a week. He will be
glad to answer inquiries and give information
regarding the organization of clubs and classes
to anyone requesting it. He should be ad-
dressed at 2924 Van Buren Avenue, El Paso.

An Arts and Crafts Exhibition — The West-

chester County Recreation Commission con—
ducted its eighth annual county-wide Arts and
Crafts Exhibition November 14-26. Many of
the exhibitors of this county-wide show were
enrolled students in the arts and crafts courses
conducted by the Westchester Workshop.

Old-fashioned Pioneering for Ann Arbor
Pupils—To learn pioneering by pioneering
was what Lawrence E. Vredevoogd of Ann
Arbor, Michigan, had in mind when he decided
in 1931, to purchase property for a camp site
for his Tappan Junior High School pupils
where they might drill their own wells, build
their own bridges and roads, and meet the con—
ditions met by the pioneer fathers. Proposing
“to explore past and present conditions of the
state, not from books, but from reality,” faculty
members and students raised money to buy
258 acres of land (by tax title at one dollar an
acre) near Moddersville, which they have
named Wilderness Lake Camp and where each
Friday in the fall about twenty-five or thirty
students go for a week-end camping trip to
take part in a little government of their own.
The experiment so far has been widely recog-
nized as an interesting success.

 

wooden sets

CURVED BACK FOR
THE PURPOSE or
PLACING THE DISC
ON STARTING LINE.

 

gnttoducing . . .

Practical aids

un pupular recreations
FIGURE SKATING AS A HOBBY

1. By DIANE CUMMINGS. The first manual to offer
simple, clear, and completely illustrated instruc-
tions on figure skating as recognized by the United
States Figure Skating Association. Step-by-step
diagrams and lucid explanations will take you from
simple forward, backward and turning strokes to
exciting Spins, spirals and jumps. Now is the time
to learn! For everyone—on indoor and outdoor

rinks—will be figure skating this season.
Illustrated. Price $2.00

GARDENING AS A HOBBY

2. By ALLEN EDMINSTER. Here is a book for
flower lovers who can devote but a few hours a
week to their gardens and want them to count—
in good fun and in good results. Compact, simple
and non—technical, it offers in brief compass all in—
formation essential for making and keeping a gar-

den in flower throughout the season.
Illustrated. Price $2.50

VENTRILOQUISM AS A HOBBY

3. By SYDNEY VEREKER. With the coming of

Charlie McCarthy, nation-wide interest is turned
to the art of ventriloquism. This book presents in

non-technical terms step-by—step instructions on
how to master the art of ventriloquism, both as an
entertaining pastime and as a profitable vocation.
Includes sample dialogs. Illustrated. Price $1.75

SIX-MAN FOOTBALL

The Streamlined Game
4. By STEPHEN E. EPLER. A real find for recrea-
tional directors! The whole story of six-man foot-
ball by the creatormhistory, fundamentals and
teamplay of a game that is revolutionizing recrea-
tional activities by bringing football to more boys
in a safer and less expensive form. \Vith more
than 160 photographs and diagrams showing end
runs, reverses, forward passes, kick offs, laterals
and other formations and plays. Also tells how to

organize and finance a team, buy equipment, etc.
Illustrated. Price $3.00

SEND FOR BOOKLET
ON HARPER HOBBY SERIES!

READ BOOKS 5 DAYS FREE!
0

ORDER FORM:

HARPER & BROTHERS a
49 EAST 333D STREET, NEW YORK.

Please send me the books whose numbers I have
encircled below for 5 days free examination. After
5 days I will return them or remit the price, as
shown above, of the books I wish to keep.

1 2 3 4
[:1 Please send Harper Hobby catalog

 

  
 

Name ................................................................................ ..

A d dress ............................................................................ ..

Professional
Connection ...................................................................... ..

 
  

529

  
  

 

 
 
 
 

0%. ,

'5‘ Mammals!“

(/42‘ Your Service;

wztb a: complete line; of

“Bum-00rd” V0 IT “Scholastic”

Footballs Basketballs Volley Balls
Soccer Balls Water Polo Balls Tether Balls

VIJIT INFLATEI] PLAY BALLS

See your local Goldsmith distributor. He can
give you full information, prices,
and prompt service on
this popular line.

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY 531

New

THE CHILDREN’S CHOICE

" Let the users be the choosers'
Sold with a money back
guarantee and you be the
iudge. Built ot the Finest ma-
terials with SAFETY the

Foremost Factor. w, W,

A FASCINATING HEALTH building piece ot play-
ground equipment, NOT JUST ANOTHER SWING

' . drier; an}. ."

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT co.

IO? N. UNION STREET

 

Atlanta Presents “Carnival of Venice”—At—
lanta’s city swimming pool was transformed into
the Grand Canal of old Italy—gondolas, Neopoli-
tan love songs and all—for the second annual
water pageant sponsored by the City Parks De—
partment, the Atlanta Red Cross and the recreation
department of the WPA on August 4 and 5. A
crowd of more than fifteen thousand persons wit-
nessed the colorful “Carnival of Venice” which
was so successful the hrst night that it was pre-
sented a second time. A series of choruses,
dances, and various demonstrations was perform-
ed in the picturesque setting of old Venice. The
climax of the program was the aquatic demonstra-
tion featured by a water drill of swimmers. There
was also a demonstration of swimming, diving,
and life—saving methods sponsored by the Red
Cross. ‘

Where Taxation Is Welcomed !—-The San
Diego Director 'of Recreation reports that people
seem to be more willing to pay the bill for recre-
ation even if taxes are high and difficult to pay.
In one instance a group of citizens raised $900 by
subscription to accompany such a request, and the
City and School Board assisted so that a $22,000
project was carried through to complete an ex-
cellent recreation center on a large school ground.
This center is now in operation and includes two
cement tennis courts and an excellent athletic held
with backstops. Equipment for children to be
added later.

Write for prices and literature

AKRONl OHIO

Street Dances in New York City—‘Weekly
dances in the street in front of Hudson Guild,-
New York City, proved so pOpular that they were
extended through September. The dances were
managed by groups of young men in the neigh—
borhood in cooperation with the staff of the Hud-
son Guild and recreation teachers assigned to the
settlement by WPA. Beginning promptly at nine
o’clock the dances attracted an average of 300
young peOple each night. Many older neighbors
gathered to watch the dances, and not infrequently
to join in, especially when old—time waltzes were
played. The music was furnished by victrola rec-
ords sent into the street through a public address
system from the upper story of the Guild.

A State-Wide Book Service—The Library
Division of the Minnesota Department of Edu-
cation, St'. Paul, Minnesota, is maintaining an ex-
ceedingly valuable service through (1) its travel-
ing libraries designed primarily for small com-
munities without local library service, and (2)
the provision of reading material for individuals
through mailing books, pamphlets, magazine arti-
cles, clippings and pictures to meet requests for
material on any subject. The only charge is for
transportation. The Division has issued bibli-
ographies of the material it is prepared to furnish
through these two services. Among these bibli-
ographies are excellent ones on various phases of
recreation.

S32 WORLD AT PLAY

 

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL

PORTABLE

with (TOUCH CONTROL i

    

Yes, you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY, with initial
down payment. See your Royal Portable dealer
or mail coupon today for information.

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. RNR 1238

2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

Public Wants Good Parks—The overwhelm-
ing majority of Americans can be relied upon to
cooperate in the care and protection of parks and
recreation places if the best is provided, Robert
Moses, Park Commissioner of New York City,
has stated. On the contrary, the American pub-
lic is contemptuous of shabby parks, playgrounds,
and recreation facilities, and quickly despoils
them, Mr. Moses’ experience has shown.

Community Parties in Lancaster—For sev-
enteen years Saturday night community parties
have been held by young people of Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, under the leadership of the Recre-
ation and Playground Association. The enthusi—
asm with which the young people attend them is
as high as ever. The parties, which are held in
the gymnasium of the Y.W.C.A., are managed by
a. board of young men and women, representing
the schools and various organizations in the city
and county, that meets once a week to plan for
each dance. Chaperons are usually selected from
the friends or parents of the group in charge each

week. During the past season twenty—four parties
were held with an average attendance per evening
of 260. The activity is self—sustaining.

A New Year’s Eve Dance—An event which
brings much pleasure to hundreds of boys and
girls under twenty-one years of age is the
annual New Year’s Eve Dance sponsored by
the Oakland Junior Ch 'mber of Commerce and
conducted by the Ca land Recreation Depart-
ment. It is held in e auditorium arena.

What D Americans Need?

(Continued from page 495)

tion is now in high school and is growing older.
There are fewer in the younger group of those in
the elementary schools, and we are already seeing
that fact affect our school enrollment. But our
p0pulation as a whole is growing older, and in my
opinion the great task of recreation, of education
now is to follow that growth up through the years.

We cannot end recreation any longer with the
period of adolescence, because if people are to live

  
 

CHRISTMAS EVERYWHERE! 533

happily in these United States twenty years from
now, when there will be three times as many
sixty—five—year-old people as there are today,
something has to be done for them. We have got
to follow through. We have to let our services
grow up with the population, and I think in that
problem lies perhaps the most important thing
that you have to face during the next twenty years.

But if you do your work, if you make a world
that is good to live in, a world of open spaces and
happy people, of roads with something good at
both ends of them, you will be doing the job that
is, the job for the other man who is displaced by
machinery.

There, it seems to me, is the American answer

to the problem of industrialism. Through recre—.

ation, through education, through health services,
through all the things whichwe do for each other,
and which add to human happiness and to the
meaning of life, we can employ our population as
you create the demand. The creation of that de—
mand rests with you. As you make people want
more from life, employment will have to flow into
those channels which provide more and there is
no other place for it to How. There is no other
place. It has to be that way. There is not any
other answer.

Christmas Everywhere!

(Continued from page 497)
parade of children, he was soon comfortably es-
tablished in his Christmas Village, with a post
otlice, workshop, and a little theater prepared for
him by the Community Recreation Association,
the Marionette Guild, and the Retail Merchants
Bureau.

Each afternoon at the close of school there was
a Christmas circus for school children in which
marionettes performed. On Saturday nights until
the week before Christmas another type of mar-
ionette show was given designed to interest adults
as well as children. During Christmas week the
Nativity play was given every night.

Ten foot Christmas trees sprayed with alumi-
num paint were set up along sidewalk edges, and
each intersection carried lighted evergreen wreaths
and roping.

The “Spirit Sprig”
The Centralia, Illinois, Recreation Department
found a novel way to spread the Christmas spirit

last year when one of its girls’ clubs within a Sun-
day school decided to say “Merry Christmas” to

COST NOTHING

ENDLESS VARIETY

IN PLENTIFUL SUPPLIES 0F
ARTISTIC YARNS

for Recreational Centers
are now practically

FREE

for the making from all kinds of
Salvage Materials stored away at home

The WEBSTER YARNMAKER twists and reels yarn very
rapidly from these materials in any ply or texture
desired. Even a child can make hundreds of yards 3
day of beautiful yarns usually worth several times
the cost, when new, of the materials from which made!

Perfect yarns for sweaters, afghans, rugs, decora-
tive pieces, etc. Many soft feathery yarns never seen
before. Excellent yarns for mats from burlap strands
and also dried grasses. Even $1 worth of silk art yarn
in any ply from one pair of run-damaged hose! Num-
bers of stockings are easily ravelled and spun at one
and the same time.

The Yarnmaker is small, handy, convenient and in-
expensive. Saves its cost in less than a day. A fasci-
nating economy of lifelong usefulness. Ideal for Rec-
reational Centers. Write for free yarn samples and
literature.

WEBSTER TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS

7317 Wise Ave. Dept. 73 St. Louis. Mo.

 

those who are unfortunate enough to be traveling
by train on Christmas Day and cannot be in their
homes. The girls, neatly dressed in fresh Christ-
mas colors, each carrying a festooned basket filled
with evergreen sprigs boarded the train and gave
each passenger a “spirit sprig,” a smile and a
cheery “Merry Christmas.” The sprigs were
made as follows: Small evergreen trees were
stripped of their sprigs and each was carefully
cut so that it formed a natural “Y.” One end of a
piece of spool wire six inches long was wrapped
around a tuft of cotton about the size of a cran-
berry. Red cellophane was used to cover the
“berries” which were placed at the “Y” of the
sprig in clusters of three. A pin with each sprig
completed the token.

The day after Christmas telephone calls from
the Illinois Central System, with main offices in
Chicago, began to come to southern Illinois.
“Where did those sprigs come from?” was the
query. Travelers on the Illinois Central System
had written to the railroad officials or called them
to tell of their appreciation. Later came a letter
from the president of the company congratulating
the girls on the success of their way of saying
“Merry Christmas.”

534 WANDERING STORYTELLERS

 

For Story Tellers

STORY PARADE

A MAGAZINE FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

 

A Juvenile Magazine of Quality

Stories of adventure, fantasy, fun and fact, by the
finest children’s authors of our day. Also puzzles,
crafts and hobbies.

l yr. subscription. . . .$2.00
2 yr. subscription. . . .$3.50

STORY PARADE :: 70 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

Every community will celebrate Christmas of
1938 in its own way. And these celebrations,
whether they follow old folk ways and customs
or introduce newer forms of observance, will the
more firmly establish Christmas as our happiesr,
best beloved holiday.

Christmas Festivals, Masques

and Pantomimes
(Continued from page 498)

Publishers’ Addresses

Walter H. Baker Co., 178 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.,
or 448 South Hill St., Los Angeles, Calif.

Banner Play Bureau, Inc., 137 West 4th St., Cincinnati,
Ohio, or 111 Ellis St., San Francisco, Calif.

Brit/Fess Publishing Co., 426 South 6th, Minneapolis.

inn.

Oliver Ditson Co., 359 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

Drizitlmatic Publishing Co., 59 E; Van Buren St., Chicago,

Eldridge Entertainment House, Franklin, Ohio, or 829
15th St., Denver, Colo.

Samuel French, 25 West 45th St., New York City, or
811 West 7th St., Los Angeles, Calif.

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave.,
New York City

Clayton F. Summy Co., 321 S. Wabash Ave.,
Chicago, Ill.

Womans Home Companion, 250 Park Ave.,
New York City

Womans Press, 600 Lexington Ave, New York City

Wandering Storytellers
(Continued from page 503)

So came into being the storytelling part of the
summer’s program. Newspaper feature stories
prepared children and adults alike for the “soon
to be expected” appearance of the gypsy story—
tellers in the neighborhoods. All through the sums
mer they wandered. Week by week their popu-
larity grew, their circle of friends widened, and
their own enthusiasm carried them on and on.
So closed the first summer of their work. Through
the winter they received more training, grew fa»
miliar with more stories, and when spring came
again and they returned to the board to tell of
their willingness to serve again, the board wel-
comed them back and scheduled them regularly
so that each weekday, Saturday excepted, was
definitely planned for, and the places and hours
for appearance listed in the Sunday city papers.
Usually live sets of two were out each day.

Before the season opened representatives from
the board toured the outlying sections where no
playgrounds were established and found a huge
tree affording shade, an open field. or the shaded
side of an out-of—-the—way store. Having found
such places, they trailed down the owners and
asked permission to use them weekly as play cen—
ters where the storytellers might for a while stop
their wanderings and settle for stories, games, a
chat, etc. A small sum may have been paid these
girls during the second summer but nothing in
comparison with what they gave.

The spontaneity and the stability with which
this work was done made the board members who
were most closely connected with the direction of
the gypsies feel that certain recognition of the
girls would be a very desirable thing. And so it
was arranged with the principal of the High
School that honorary credit would be given them
in their scholastic record.

Christmas Brings Them Out Again

Early in the fall the storytellers came to report
that they could be counted on for Christmas
stories up to ten girls a day for about two weeks
before Christmas through to New Year’s. They
had heard us say we wanted to have the various
folk stories of the different peoples represented
in the neighborhoods as well as the Christmas
story of the Christ Child told through these
weeks, and here they were to hll the need. They
and we, with the help of library specialists, social
and religious workers, Italian cobblers and Polish

ON TWELFTH NIGHT 535

mothers, gathered the stories, and they learned
them. Children and adult parties could hear them ;
stores, kindergartens, as well as the hundreds of
children playing in the streets between the close
of school and the coming of evening.

Snow was falling often those December days,
and somehow snow and gypsies did not seem to go
together. So we ordered ten red military capes
made of bright red sateen, to be worn over their
winter coats. These were trimmed around the
high standing collars and all the way down the
front with a wide band of cotton batting which
was sprinkled with artificial snow. The snow was
kept in place by a covering of thin, cheap white
tarlatan. Skull caps of red, with a- white band
near the face, and high boots completed the pic-
ture. Of course a touch of holly appeared on the
collar and on each side of the opening, and at the
left side of the cap.

A pile of-children packed close on parked hand
sleighs, the overflow being accommodated on the
near-by courtyard railings . . . many little heads
stretching up above the ward beds to hear it all,
ears and eyes fastened on the storytellers . . . old
men and women in wheel chairs or on crutches
gathered listening in the Old People’s Home . . .
children of shopping mothers around the storytel-
lers in a secluded but easily available spot in the
stores . . . these are some of the memories that
come back to me as I write the record of those
days.

They were happy minutes, those minutes when
together listeners and tellers wandered with the
elves and fairies, met defeat or victory with some
hero of Greece or more modern country, or
waited with the shepherds near the manger.

On Twelfth Night

(Continued from page 504)

with the usual Latin joyfulness. Their traditional
figure in the festival was Befana, represented as
an old woman who, according to the legend, was
cleaning her house when the Three Wise Men
passed on their way to worship the infant Christ.
When she was told that they were coming, she
said she was too busy to come to. the door and
she would see them on their way back. But they
went home by another road, and Befana is still
watching for them, says the legend.

Effigies of Befana were carried through the
streets in gay processions, and in Florence the
procession ended on the bridge where the old lady
was precipitated unceremoniously into the Arno
River.

As Long As They-Last"
$1.00!

0 Recreation workers who have never
secured the party books by Ethel Bowers
will now have the opportunity of buying

the series at a reduced rate. The three
booklets offered are:

Parties—Plans and Programs

Parties for Special Days of the Year
Parties—Illusical Mixers and

Simple Square Dances

They will be invaluable to you in
your social recreation program

Originally priced at 50 cents each, the
three booklets may now be secured at
$1.00! for the series—send your order to

V

National Recreation Association
3l5 FOURTH AVENUE. NEW YORK CITY

On Twelfth Eve the children were put to bed
early, where they waited impatiently until the cry
“Ecco la Befana” was raised, when they jumped
up and rushed for their stockings as American
children do now on Christmas morning. Good
behavior was rewarded with presents of toys and
sweetmeats, but the child who had been bad found
only dirt and ashes in his stocking.

Among the English peasantry in Devon,
Twelfth Eve was celebrated in a very interesting
manner. Each farmer, with his workmen, went
into the orchard and gathered about the best tree.
They took with them a large panful of cider in
which were Floating roasted apples. Each mem-
ber of the party took an earthen cupful of the
cider with a fragment of an apple, drank a toast
to the tree, and then threw the remainder of the
contents of the cup at the tree._ Tradition had it
that this was necessary to insure a good crop
from the orchard next year.

In Gloucester, 011 Twelfth Eve the farmers
went into a wheat field where they lighted twelve
fires, one much larger than the rest. Gathered
around the large fire, they drank toasts to a good
crop, trusting that this ceremony would prevent

536 LET’S DE C ORA TE !

We Announce. . .
"ON A RAINY DAY"

By DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER
and her daughter
SARAH FISHER SCOTT

Illustrated by JESSIE GILLESPIE

_ And we are happy to be able to tell you
that this charmingly illustrated booklet has
come off the press in time to be available as

a Christmas gift.

On. a Rainy Day is the story of the adven-
tures of two little boys and one little girl left
to their own devices on a rainy day. The tale
of what they did and the ingenious games they
made up not only makes a fascinating story but
suggests a number of home activities which
mothers will find helpful to put into practice
when children are confined to the house.

Price $.50
“K

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
3:5 FOURTH AVENUE. NEW YORK CITY

 

rust on the wheat. This custom is still practiced
in some sections of the shire.

Practical jokes used to be one of the popular
ways of celebrating Twelfth Eve in Spain. In
Madrid, a group of young bloods would search
through the streets until they found some sini-
pleton credulous enough to believe their tale. He
was to assist them in their search for the Three
Wise Men who were expected to enter at one. of
the city gates that night, he was told. If he en—
tered into their plan he was given a ladder which
he had to carry to each of the city gates. Then
he had to mount on the ladder to see if the Three
Wise Men were in sight. Often his support was
pulled from under him, and he came tumbling
down at great risk.

It was in Germany that the method used in
Rochester of celebrating Twelfth Night by burn—
ing the Christmas trees originated. It was thought
that this observance would save the trees from the
disgrace of the refuse heap, and at the same time
the tire of the burning trees would be a fitting
commemoration of the light of the Star of Beth-
lehem which guided the Three Wise Men to the
stable Where the infant Christ lay in the manger.

Let’s Decorate!
( Continued from page 505)

Unique, rare things in the field of art are in-
teresting to all. We like to see them and study
them. As we have already mentioned, however,
our keenest satisfactions come from the effort and
expressions of our own ideas in some creative
form.

The display of one’s own artistic products has
three distinct values for the individual. First, it
gives him the opportunity to enjoy continuously
the results of his own creative effort, dealing with
some imagined idea which he felt sufficiently
worthwhile to attempt to reproduce or develop.
Second, it offers continuous opportunity for him
to study the possibilities of improvement and re—
finement of this same product of this effort.
Third, it gives him an opportunity to secure the
criticism or approval of others. These three
things should provide a never ending source of
satisfaction and pleasure. If these deductions are
sound, we may safely say the recreation center
should provide liberal opportunities for its mem—
bers to maintain some of their products on perma-
nent display. These products may be of a wide
variety of types, including various forms of paint-
ing and sketching, woodblocks, photography, wood
craft, leatherwork, beads and basketry, metal
work, weaving, soap carving, and the many other
forms of craft hobbies now so commonly en-
couraged in recreation centers.

Such permanent displays can easily be taken
care of by providing wall space for hangings,
glass cabinets for certain types of smaller prod-
ucts, these to be hung or inset in the walls or lob—
bies or club or library rooms. Even large glass
table cases might be provided for display of all
types of collections. Each product should be
tagged with the name of the owner or producer.
Naturally, some means of safety in keeping such
objects from thievery is essential. It is also im—
portant that space not be sacrificed from import—
ant activities to take care of such permanent
displays. The imaginative director will find ways
and means of taking care of such problems. Even
though the opportunities and facilities be very
limited it will be immeasurably worthwhile to
encourage each child and adult to attempt some
of the creative hobbies, and to enjoy the satisfac—

tion of such permanent diSplays of the results of
his efforts.

NOTE: These extracts from an article by Professor
Laporte have been taken from the “Recreation Round

Table,” a bulletin issued by the Division of Recreation,
California W.P.A.

THAT AMAZING GOLF 537

That Amazing Golf

(Continued from page 507)

tages of the game. It has been said frankly that
the élite of society are often found at club houses.
A well-equipped golf club will provide more than
mere facilities for playing. But social functions
are an adjunct rather than an indispensable part
of the spirit of golf, and players of course follow
their own tastes in deciding how much they will
participate.

Mrs. Page has said, “Golf requires the patience
of Job and all the rest of the gentlemen in the
Bible combined. It can improve or ruin a dispo-
sition.” She advises men and women with cho-
leric temperaments, utterly unable to control their
emotions, to avoid the temptations and irritations
of the game. But to those who find self-control
even in meeting obstacles surmountable only by
skill, she offers golf as a great builder of charac-
ter. Decision and mental alertness, patience and
endurance, poise and self-confidence, are essential
to victory in golf.

The Community Theater at Lancaster‘
(Continued from page 508)

is chairman of one of the following committees:
Production, Promotion, Experimental Group,
Play Selection, and Membership. The members
of the theater then compose these various com—
mittees.

The Experimental Group represents what might
be called the junior division of the theater. It is
the training and testing and experimenting sta—
tion. Into this group came all the members of the
institute who attended regularly. At present the
entire membership of the theater is about eighty,
and applications for membership are constantly
coming in. Anyone in the community may join
the Experimental Group, but membership in the
senior group is governed by invitations. The Mem-
bership Committee acts as a scouting or talent
committee, going to as many amateur perform—
ances in the county as is possible.

The senior group of the Community Theater
has planned three major productions for this cur-
rent season. They opened with “To, Meet the
Prince,” a three«act comedy by A. A. Milne. In
this performance the Little Theater of Franklin
and Marshall College was used. Popular admis—
sion prices were charged because we are a non-
profit organization existing purely for the cultural
enjoyment of the community.

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles l
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

  

   

    
 

MAGAZIN ES

American Girl, The, November, 1938

Fur, Fins, and Feathers, I, by Mary Grahn
Ollicial Results in the Hobby-Horse Race

Character and Citizenship, November, 1938

Ideals for Today’s Life, by H. O. Burgess
Methods of Recruiting Leaders, Article VII,
by Tracy W. Redding

Commonwealth Review, July, 1938

Co-Recreational Planning

The Importance of Leadership in
Planning _

Recreational Survey in Oregon

Recreational

Journal of Health and Physical Education,

September, 1938

Coordination of Recreation Agencies,
by George Hjelte
Play Streets, by Ruth Mullaney

Kiwanis Magazine, November, 1938
Just a Lot of Children Playing, by Merton S. Heiss

Mental Hygiene, July, 1938

Are We Teaching Our Children to Fight in their
Play?

Municipality, The, November, 1938
The Issuance of General Obligation Bonds,
by R. J. Cunningham
Nation’s Schools, The, November, 1938
Outline of a Plan for Play, by Thomas Lyon White

School and Society, October 29, 1938

Who is the Superior Student?
by Dean Harold E. B. Speight

Parks and Recreation, October, 1938

Recreation for Negroes Down in Dixie,
by Frank L. Bertschler

Planners' Journal, The, September-October, 1938

Qualifications and Duties of Planning Personnel,
by Arthur L. Shepard

Land Use Planning in Rural Areas,
by David I. Rozman

The Child, September, 1938

“Stories for Parents” series issued by Child Study
Association '

Leisure, November, 1938

Make a Photo Enlarger, by H. H. Brauer
(Description and plans)

The Leisure Book Shelf—Color Photography for
the Amateur, by Keith Henney

School Activities, November, 1938
Transfer Value of Women’s Sports,

by Minnie L. Steckel

The Social Dance Class—A Laboratory for Acquir-
ing Social Ease, by Elizabeth G. Dunkel
A Thanksgiving Pageant, by Russell T. Roddey

Minnesota Journal of Education, November, 1938

The Responsibility of the Community for Recreation,
by Carl L. Nordly

538 THE COMMUNITY THEATER AT LANCASTER

Science Digest

Taming the Wild Flowers, by Dr.  L. Ricker
(Condensed from a Science Serv10e Radio Talk)

Minnesota Municipalities, November, 1938
Anoka Builds a Community Center

PAM PH LETS

New Hampshire Public Recreational Areas

Issued by State Planning and Development Commis-
sion, Concord

Report on Progress of the WPA Program, June 30, 1938

Statement on Recreation, p. 20 ff
Statement on Recreation, p. 76 ff

Puppet Teaching—News Bulletin, November, 1938

U. S. Works Progress Administration for the City
of New York Recreation Project

Group Technique in Club Work, by R. K. Atkinson

Outline of sixteen sessions offered at the Recreation
Training School, New York City. Recreation
Project of the U. S. Works Progress Administra-
tion for the City of New York

The Westfield (N. J.) School for Adult Education
Announcement of 'courses 1938-1939

Fun anil Work for Future Farmers

Compiled by L. L. Scranton, Department of Agricul-
tural Education, North Dakota Agricultural Col-
lege, State Adviser, F.F.A. Published by the Inter-
State Printers and Publishers, Danville, III. A col-
lection of games, programs, and community activi-
ties with practical ideas and suggestions for social
and recreational programs for rural boys’ organi-
zations.

New Contributions of Science to the Exceptional Child

Proceedings of the Fourth Institute on the Excep-
tional Child of the Child Research Clinic, The
Woods Schools, Langhorne, Pa., October, 1937

Water Pollution, Series B, No. 1, November, 1938

First of a contemplated series of brochures designed
to inform, educate and guide the 5,000,000 people
of the Delaware River Basin. Published by the
giterstate Commission on the Delaware River

as1n.

The Experimental Group of the theater has
been presenting radio dramas, using “The Un-
lighted Cross” by Dorothy Clark Wilson as the
medium for its cooperation with the churches in
the observance of Religious Education Week.
This play was presented by permission of the
\Valter H. Baker Company, Boston.

During the fall season both groups cooperated
in the local welfare drive by presenting two plays.
One is “The Undercurrent” by Ehlert; the other,
“The Free and the Brave” written by Gerald
Lestz of Lancaster. In addition, the Experimental
Group is planning to prepare and present twelve
one-act plays from 1938—39. Some of these will
be open to the public.

In order to keep all members of the theater
constantly informed about plans, meetings and
plays, the theater publishes in modest form a bul-
letin known as “The Callboard.” As soon as

finances permit this bulletin will be increased from
its present four pages to a much larger edition.
In it will be published articles on the various
phases of the theater and other interesting bits of
information.

It has been our purpose to cooperate in any
possible way with the various drama groups in
the community. As a result, we are already be-
ing called upon to loan our scenery, our techni-
cians and our directors. One of our executive
committee members is teaching two classes in the
local Y.VV.C.A. As soon as we have our perma-
nent home, it is our intention to have regular
drama classes both for the members of the thea-
ter as well as for the community at large.

Another phase of the work which has not as
yet been developed is a Drama Service Bureau. In
order to give assistance to groups in the city and
county, this bureau will attempt to coordinate
drama interests by setting up a lending library and
a costume department, and by making available
information on play directors.

The interest in the various phases of the work
is high. The Community Theater is filling a long—
felt need for dramatic expression in the community.

Square Dancing in College
(Continued from page 514)

leads his line around to the left so that each person
goes under the arch (the last two practically
“wring the dishrag”) the head cotlple meet, join
hands and the circle is complete again. The sec-
ond couple do the same, the third and fourth
follow suit. (See Fig. 8, page 514.)

NOTE: Miss Carpenter suggests that a helpful book on '
music is an inexpensive pu'blication called “Twenty-live
Old—Fashioned Tunes for the Piano,” which may be
obtained from Belwin, Incorporated, music publishers,
43 West 23rd Street. New York City. Price 40 cents.
This booklet contains a number of old favorites such as
“Soldiers’ Joy.”

Music and the Municipal Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 517)
bined choruses and orchestras gave a thrilling ren-
dition of the stirring patriotic songs: “Hail,
America!” and “Hail to Our Native Land!”

Music Groups in Wilkes-Barre
The Civic Opera Company of Wyoming Valley,
organized in January, 1938, is a direct outgrowth
of the W oman’s Municipal Chorus now three
years old which was organized by the Playground
and Recreation Association of Wyoming Valley,
\Vilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. With the help of a

MUSIC AND THE MUNICIPAL RECREATION PROGRAM 539

number of male voices the Woman's Chorus dur-
ing the first year of its existence gave “Iolanthe.”
So enjoyable did the participants find working to—
gether that the opera company was decided upon
as the best means for making possible further
projects. The Woman’s Chorus accordingly sub-
merged its identity.

Miss Edith M. Hoffman, who has been director
since the beginning of the movement, has directed
the three operas given—~— “Iolanthe,” “Yeoman of
the Guard,” and “The Gondoliers.” Her training
and experience have given her unusual equipment
for the community work she is doing.

At the present time the opera company has
ninety-four members who come from all walks of
life. Some of them are professional people, some
industrial workers and many are mothers and
homemakers. The only qualification for member-
ship is a good voice. When an opera is announced
tryouts are held before several judges for all the
principal parts, and people wishing to sing in the
chorus must have an audition before the director.
Dues are low and proceeds from the operas are
used for the advancement of music in the
community.

Another interesting music group in the city is
the Girls’ Municipal Orchestra organized in the
fall of 1936 for the purpose of giving girls out of
school the opportunity to continue with their
music. There are twenty-eight girls in this group
under the leadership of Pompilio Forlano, a local
musician of unusual training. The group meets
once a week. No fees are charged, the director be-
ing paid by the Playground and Recreation As-
sociation of Wyoming Valley.

Progress in Bloomfield

The Bloomfield, N. J., Symphony Orchestra
which gave its initial concert in March, 1932, be-
fore an audience of sixty-four people, was re-
cently acclaimed by an enthusiastic gathering of
more than 1,200 at the High School auditorium.
From its initiation the orchestra has had as its
rlirector \Valter Kurdewicz, a resident of Bloom—
field, and under its leadership it has had a steady
development.

Expenses are underwritten by the Recreation
Commission. These include the salary of the con»
rluctor, who is also director of the Civic Chorus
and of the Civic Glee Club, rental of facilities,
and music. Silver collections at each concert,
ranging from $45. to $110., help defray some of
the expenses. i

This ehtr'stmas

give . ..

Junior Arts & Activities“

The only monthly magazine
devoted entirely to creative
activity material and ideas

iVe have had many letters from subscrib-
ers expressing their appreciation for the help
and pleasure they have received from each
issue of JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITms. It is
our sincere desire to make it an inspiration
to every‘ reader.

Bring this hclpful work to your friends.
They will appreciate your thoughtfulness in
sending them a gift subscription to JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES.

It is the ideal inexpensive Christmas gift
for teachers, and is also ideal for the home.
Let JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES solve your
Christmas gift problems! '

\Ve offer you a special reduction on one or
more one-year gift subscriptions.

Gift Subscription Rates
One —-l-year gift subscription . .$|.90
Two —-l-year gift subscriptions. . 1.80 each
Three-wl-year gift subscriptions.. 1.70 each
Four —-|-year gift subscriptions. . L60 each

Each additional l-year gift
subscription . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. |.50 each

Send in your list now to assure
delivery] of the January issue
and gift card by Christmas!

Junior Arts & Activities

740 Rush Street Chicago, Illinois

540 SOCIETY OF RECREATION l/VORKERS OF AMERICA

COMMUNITY PLANNING
IN
ADULT EDUCATION

A new manual for administrators compiled by
members of the staff of the

Department of Adult Education
New York University

Fifty Cents

SERVICE BUREAU FOR ADULT EDUCATION
New York University

Price:

20 Washington Square New York. N. Y.

F our concerts are given each season. Two have
been broadcast over Station WOR. From five to
seven professional musicians take part in each
concert, while the chairs occupied in the orchestra
range from seventy to one hundred and ten. The
repertory includes approximately I40 different
numbers. Several have been played for the first
time by this orchestra; one or two were written
especially for it.

Society of Recreation Workers

of America
(Continued from page 518)

Elizabeth, N. J.; Mark McCloskey, Board of Ed-
ucation, New York City; Charles B. Cranford,
VVestchestcr County Recreation Commission,
White Plains, N. Y.; Virgil Dahl, Recreation
Division, WPA, Washington, D. C.

V. K. Brown as President appointed the fol—
lowing Chairmen of standing committees:

W. Duncan Russell, Boston, Mass, Member-
ship and Affiliation

Alden W. Thompson, West Va., Study and
Research .

E. Dana Caulkins, White Plains, N. Y.,
Training

Charles H. English, Philadelphia, Pa., Auditing

C. E. Brewer of Detroit presented a report of
the Committee on Reservation of Recreation
Areas Near New Housing Construction which
emphasized the immediate and urgent importance
of the permanent reservation of adequate outdoor
recreation areas within or near all new housing
units. A resolution was unanimously adopted ask-
ing that the National Recreation Association ap-
point a committee of not more than three and re-
quest representatives of other interested national
organizations to confer with this committee for
the purpose of determining reasonable standards
of size, location and type of outdoor recreation

 

areas which should be permanently reserved near
or within new housing units.

George D. Butler, Clarence E. Brewer and E.
Dana Caulkins agreed to serve on this committee.

Charles Peterson of Chicago presented an ivory
gavel to the Society of Recreation Workers of
America.

The Administrative Council of the Society ap*
pointed F. S. Mathewson, C. E. Brewer and Virgil
Dahl to serve as the three additional members of
the Executive Committee. The Executive Com-
mittee was empowered to approve all memberships,
and authorization was given for the printing of
2,000 copies of the constitution. The Secretary
was authorized to take steps to incorporate the
Society.

The constitution of the Society makes the an-
nual dues for active members three dollars and
states: “The active membership shall consist of
full-time professional employees in executive or
leadership capacity associated with the recreation
movement.”

Recreation workers wishing a copy of the
constitution and a membership blank or desiring
further information about the Society should
write to Arthur Noren, Secretary, City Hall.
Elizabeth, N. 

Few organizations have ever been launched
under happier circumstances. All the leaders in
the National Recreation Association wish the new
Society well.

An Experiment in Leadership
(Continued from page 520)

more experienced, serve as a basis for making
recommendations for positions. Especially is this
the case in poorer areas where boys and girls seek
employment early in life.

Bulletin board announcements regarding the
leaders and their work do much to arouse a justi-
nable pride in achievement. Having a picture
taken of the group is an award children enjoy.
An additional gymnasium period may be offered.
Usually the leaders’ corps has a team that can
enter into competition with the other groups of
the playground, thereby calling attention to the
activities of leaders. There are numerous other
minor privileges that can well be extended to a

group which has met leadership tests and carried
its honors modestly.

Leaders’ Meetings
A meeting is held each week at a time when
most leaders are off duty. After the election of
officers, adoption of a constitution and determina—

a
1

WITH THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PARK EXECUTIVES

tion of purpose, the question of weekly programs
should be considered. The central theme of the
meetings should be in line with personality de-
velopment factors. Any of the following charac-
teristics might well serve as a theme for a meet-
ing: punctuality, orderliness, industry, persistence,
self-reliance, initiative, cooperation, sociability,
self-control, cheerfulness, sense of humor, loyalty,
unselfishness, courage, honesty, reliability, vitality,
and even determination by the group of policies
of conduct to which they would like the play-
ground children to conform.

Prior to the holding of leaders’ meetings, the
relationship has been primarily between the leader
and the school, but with the establishment of a
leaders’ organization there begins to develop a
feeling of loyalty and friendship among the lead-
ers. The result is a consolidation of the entire
plan, a molding into a unified whole, with each
unit working toward the same goal. Beyond this
is the opportunity of additional leadership, in that
leaders may be offered an opportunity for leader—
ship among their own group. This is important,
as any plan that hopes for success must include
social approval for its constitutents. Occasionally
a conscientious leader fails to receive social ap-
proval, and he may be made a subject of ridicule
by non-leaders. This experience may be counter-
acted by achievement in the leaders’ club where
social approval is generously offered for earnest
application to responsibilities.

With the American Institute of

Park Executives
(Continued from page 524)
pool construction. Their pools have the follow-

ing principles:
1. Location according to density of p0pulation.
2. Circular type; diving, or deep part in center.
3. Rectangular in center for meets.

Pools have three uses—diving, swimming, wad-
ing. Size provides a thousand gallons to each
twenty bathers. Wading pools should be twelve
inches deep. At first 635 gallons of water were
provided to each person, now 329 are provided.
At first they had too much deep water. They now
provide 53.2 per cent of the entire pool for wad-
ers. -Lights under the water and a tunnel outside
of the pool permit access to all wiring and piping.

Mr. Ilgner of Milwaukee stated that the value
of lighting reduces delinquency, doubles the time
of playground operation, is a safety factor, adds
to the value of pleasure drives, prevents vandal-

The True
Christmas Spirit

THE greatest happiness comes from serving

and helping others. For hundreds of years
men and women have presented their friends
with presents at Christmas time as tokens of
their desire to add happiness to the world.
The question of what makes an appropriate

gift is always a perplexing one.

We believe that a subscription to the maga-
zine Character and Citizenship will make the
ideal gift for Christmas this year. If you will
decide on this magazine as a token for this
season, we assure you that you will be giving
your friends a present J which will enlarge
their horizon of reading, contribute to their

happiness, and be of practical help to them in
being useful citizens.

We will send an attractive Christmas Gift
Card bearing your name to each person "on
your Character and Citizenship gift list.

.One Year Subscription. . . . $2.00

 

Character and Citizenship
5732 Harper Avenue Chicago, Illinois

List Your Gift Subscriptions Here:

Street or

R. F. D.  ...............  ................................................... ..

City ............  .................................. .. State ........................ ..

Name .................................................................................. ..

Street or

R. F. D. I l I I l I I I I I I I I l I I c I l I I I I I I l I l l I I l I l l I l l I I l n I l I I I Q l l l I I O I U I U C O O I l O O I O O O O O O O I l I O O .0

City ................................................ .. State.......  .. 

Name of person I ,
sending SlleCl‘lpthIl ...................................................... ..

Address ............................................................  ............... ..

541

542 IVE TOO ARE HAPPY!

 

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

0 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for Jrhose interested

in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc.,

payable to Earl K. Collins

W

ism, increases the radius of police protection,
lights up displays, winter sports, playgrounds and
game areas. Milwaukee has fifty permanently
lighted playgrounds and eighty tennis courts.
They use one-third as much as street lighting
takes. It is easier to get money for good installa-
tion than to maintain a poor one. Lighting playe
grounds-.alone cost $200,000. Of the playground
attendance, 60% of the 3,900,000 used the play-
ground under lights.

We Too Are Happy!
(Continued from page 525)

towels had no trouble in finishing the vegetables
she liked to eat, but those she disliked were left
until the last.

Each child makes two of everything; one is his
own to keep, and the other the Tinker Shop keeps
and sells to nurses and visitors. This “tinkering”
has the two-fold value of occupational therapy
and vocational possibilities. The Tinker Shop,
through its diversified types of work and equip-
ment, has greatly aided the crippled child to as-
sume the traits of a normal individual as he dis-
covers and proves to himself new abilities.

One boy, though totally blind, became so skilled
in handicraft that he passed all of his Boy Scout

tests and earned, by selling his creations, enough
money to buy his Scout uniform.

Regular instruction in school work is given to
all children at the hospital through the coopera—
tion of the University School of Education, so
that children do not fall behind in their school
studies while they are in the hospital.

Then on Sunday morning there is Sunday
school. Here many things happen which are that
peculiar blend of pathos and humor. Sometimes
the. lesson is almost drowned out because some
baby likes the sound of rattling his encasted leg
against his high chair. One little girl sits in a
wheel chair, her foot entirely covered with a cast,
except that just the tip of her toes stick out. They
are too great a temptation to a neighbor who finds
it amusing to tickle her toes with the ice from her
drinking cup.

One boy explained that part of the bone was
removed from his right leg and put in his left leg,
and he added, “So when I: get home I’m going to
have my mother guess where my bones are.”

Not only Christmas but all special days are ob-
served in the Children’s Ward. For days before
Easter the children assist the Easter bunny by
making colored eggs for the egg hunt. There are
Valentine, Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving parties.
\Vashington’s. Birthday is observed with cherry
pie. In between times there are birthdays of the
children which give occasion for a party on the
roof or for a picnic on the lawn. Then there are
those exciting times when the Y.M.C.A. or a
local theater brings in a Snow White or Mickey
Mouse film for a real picture Show in the ward.

A special library of children’s books has been
built up through the donations of interested
friends for the use of the children. A collection
of toys is also kept on hand.

Not long ago the children made a little clay
bowl and gave it to the superintendent of the hos-
pital, and every morning two of the children go
out to pick roses or dandelions (or whatever
variety of flower or foliage the season offers) and
present them to the superintendent to keep in the
bowl. They have also presented her with a book
of poems which they wrote themselves. One of
the poems is entitled “A Garland”:

Suppose you were a pretty rose—
The fairest flower that ever grows.
In this garland you would stand
Shaking a pretty rose by the hand.

W ouldn’t that be a delight
To dance with roses every night?

Air castles? Perhaps. But a glimpse into the
happiness of crippled bodies with well-kept souls.

“.3; mm —-—_—_—-—-—-———-—.—.4——

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Songs and Pictures for Little Folks

Words and music by Helen C. Knowles. Photographs by
Ruth Alexander N'chOls. A. S. Barnes and Company,

New York. $1.50.

RARELY DOES A book appear which is so satisfying from

an artistic point of view as this volume of songs for
little children. The photographs of Ruth Alexander
Nichols, have to an unusual degree, caught the beauty
and charm of childhood. They will appeal both to
children and adults. The songs—there are twenty-seven
Of them which accompany the photographs—are simple,

as is the music.

The March oi- Games

A Quiz and Fun Book for Young People. Compiled and
edited by Natalie Purvin Prager. Greenberg: Pub-

lisher, New York. $1.35.
IF YOU ARE familiar with the Columbia Broadcasting

System’s “March Of Games” program, you will know
what to expect from this intriguing quiz and fun book
for young people. There are many topsy-turvy and

_multiple choice questions, right or wrong statements,
memory quizzes, tongue twisters, radio puzzle plays, and.

all kinds of brain teasers. In attempting to play the
games, you will add to your store of information while

you are having a lOt Of fun.

Rubber Inner -Tube Toys

A Manual of Instructions. By Charlotte VVilmot Brook.
Universal School of Handicrafts, Inc., Rockefeller

Center, New York. $1.00.
HE SEARCH FOR inexpensive materials for handcraft

articles goes on and the problem Of “making bricks
without straw” is one recreation workers are constantly
facing. In this book Mrs. Brook gives simple, concrete
directions for every step involved in making toys from
inner-tubes and offers patterns for over twenty-five
articles. The recreation worker will find this manual

exceedingly helpful and practical.

Figure Skating as a Hobby

By Diane Cummings. Foreword by John R. Tunis.
Harper and Brothers, New York. $2.00.

HIS ADDITION to the Harper hobby series, just Off the

press, with the arrival of winter sports comes in time
to [help skating enthusiasts in getting ready for winter
sports, for figure skating is no longer a sport to be
enjoyed ‘by a few and watched by many from the side
lines. It is becoming increasingly popular among skaters
of all ages—on indoor as well as outdoor rinks. Miss
Cummings has written her manual for the beginner and
advanced skater alike, and through the use of simple
step-by-step diagrams and photographs she has shown
how waltzes, dance steps, and other figures are done.
She has also offered helpful information on skating
equipment, and the formation of skating clubs.

New Directions in Physical Education

for the Adolescent Girl in High
School and College

A Guide for Teachers in Cooperative Curriculum Re-
V1slon. By Rosalind Cassidy, Ed.D. A. S. Barnes and
Company. New York. $2.50.

MISS CASSIDY, Professor of Physical Education and

Chairman of the Department of Physical Education
Of Mills College, California, has given the physical educa-
tion profession a challenging presentation Of new aims in
this book which is especially concerned with the methods
Of replanning the school curriculum for girls of secondary
school and college age. A part Of the book is devoted to
understanding the adolescent girl’s need, and here Miss
Cassidy shows a genuine understanding of the present-
day girl. Actual case situations are cited. Following
this a method is suggested by which teachers may think
and study together in order to plan programs. The
volume is designed for use in round table discussions
among teachers and students, and the appendices contain-
ing case material will be particularly helpful for such
discussions. Throughout Miss Cassidy stresses the need
for “weaving larger patterns of play abilities and in-
terests into the lives Of boys and girls.”

Six-Man Football

By$3gbephen Epler. Harper and Brothers, New York

COMPLETE WITH ILLUSTRATIONS and diagrams showing
formations and plays, this book presents in detail the
history, philosophy and fundamentals of six-man foot-
ball for coaches, players, and spectators. For small
schools with not enough players and equipment for the
eleven-man game, six-man football is particularly de-
sirable. Large schools are finding this modification of
football desirable for intramural purposes. It brings the
game to more and more boys in a way which is safe
and still exciting.

Curriculum Problems in Physical
Education, School Health

and Recreation

Edited by Margaret Bell. Bureau of Educational Refer-
ence and Research. University Of Michigan, Ann

Arbor, Michigan. $1.00. ’
OURTEEN SELECTED LECTURES from a two-week institute

course given at the University of Michigan, July 18-
29, 1938, have 'been included in this monograph. The
majority Of them deal with health and physical education,
but three will be of special interest to recreation workers.
These are “Play and Mental Hygiene,” by John M.
Dorsey; “Changing Fashions in American Recreation,”
by Jesse F. Steiner; and “Physical Education's Contribu-
tion to the Use Of Leisure Time,” by Elmer D. Mitchell.

543

544 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The Country Dance Party.

By Beth Tolman. The Countryman Press, Weston,
Vermont. $.25.

This booklet tells you “how to generate fun and frolic
with an old-fashioned dance party.” It not only gives the
directions for a number of dances and suggestions for
music for each, but it contains a glossary of the terms
heard most often in the dances of New England.

Better City Government.

The Annals of the American Academy of Political
and Social Science, September, 1938. 3457 Walnut
Street, Philadelphia, Pa. $2.00.

In considering better city government this symposium
includes articles on principles by which municipal
government should be judged, analyses of existing city
governments of various types, agencies which contribute
to the improvement of municipal government, and sug-
gestions for appraising some of the individual functions
of municipal government, such as housing, welfare, public
works, police, education and recreation. The articles
frankly face the difficulties of measuring city government
services and of comparing one form of government with
another. It is encouraging to note the consideration
given to the extent to which community needs should
enter into any appraisal of municipal government services
as well as the economy and eHiciency of operation of such
services as are operated. Consideration is given also to
the fact that although the form of government is im-
portant, the caliber of government personnel is even
more important, and that citizen understanding of and
interest in government is perhaps the most important
factor of all in securing and maintaining eiii-cient and
adequate municipal services.

Dr. J. B. Nash of New York University prepared the
statement on municipal recreation. He analyzes the
recreation needs of- communities by age groups, suggests
methods of organization for meeting these needs and
bases for judging effectiveness of municipal recreation
services. The methods of organization suggested by Dr.
Nash are those which he first put forward in his report
for the National Municipal League, published in the
National Municipal Review for July, 1931. The tests of
adequacy presented by Dr. Nash in the form of twenty—
two questions should be helpful to anyone wishing to
make a general appraisal of municipal action in the
recreation field.

Block Printing Craft.

By Raymond W. Perry. The Manual Arts Press,
Peoria, Illinois. $3.50.

This book is about the old craft of block printing—
about prints and how to make them. It will serve both as
a guide to the making of block prints and as a source
of appreciation of the art. The technique of both wood
and linoleum block making in :black and white and in
colors, is given by an authority on the craft. The many
illustrations, some of which are in color, make the volume
an interesting and beautiful addition to the library, even
for the reader, who may not himself be interested in
undertaking the project.

Art Education Today.

Editor in Chief, Belle Boas. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University. $1.25.

Members of the fine arts staff of Teachers College.
Columbia University, have sponsored this annual devoted
to the problems of art education. A number of art in-
structors in educational institutions throughout the
country have contributed articles which discuss such
topics as “The Meaning of Art in Education,” “New
Directions for Art,” “Modern Art and Social Problems.”
“The Modern Dance Form,” and “Art as an Approach to
Children’s Emotional Problems.”

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933 of
RECREATION, published monthly at New York, N. Y., for
October 1, 1938.

STATE or New YORK,
COUNTY or New YORK. rs.

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared H. S. Braucher, who, having been
duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, manage-
ment (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid
publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by
the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 3,
1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations, print-

ed on the reverse of this form, to wit:
1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-

aging editor, and business manager are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth AVe-
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor: H. S. Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Mana ing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York,  Y.

Business Manager: Arthur Williams, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a cor-
poration, the names and addresses of the indiwdual owners must
be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each 1nd1v1dual

member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue. New
York, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston
Mass.; Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.; Mrs. Robert
Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. William Butterworth.
Moline, 111.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G.
Cummer, Jacksonville. Fla.; F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L.
1.. N. Y.; Harry P. Davison, New York, N. Y.; John H. Finley,
New York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Austin E.
Griliiths, Seattle, Wash; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchburg,
Mass.; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson. Ariz.‘ Mrs. Charles
V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.: Mrs. Mina M. Edison Hughes.
West Orange, N. {4 Mrs. John D. {famesom Sugar Hill. N. H.;
Gustavus T. Kir y. New York, . Y.; H. McK. Landon,
Indianapolis, Ind.: Mrs. Charles D. Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.;
Robert Iassiter, Charlotte, N. C.; Susan M. Lee, Boston. Mass.:
J. H. McCurdy, Springfield, Mass.; Otto T. Mallerv, Philadel-
phia. Pa.; Walter A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Carl E. Milliken.
Augusta. Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills. Woodbury. N. Y.; Mrs.
James W. Wadsworth, Washington, D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New
York. N. Y.; Frederick M. Warburg, New York. N. Y.; John
S. éN‘inant. Concord, N. H.; Stanley Woodward, Washington,

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other Securities are: (If there are none, so
state.) None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of
the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain
not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they ap-
pear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the
stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the com-
pany as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of
the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is
given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements em-
bracing aHiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances
and conditions under which stockholders and security holders
who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona tide
owner; and this afiiant has no reason to believe that any other
person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or in-
direct in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so
stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to
paid subscribers, during the twelve months preceding the date
shown above is (This information is required from daily pub-
lications only.)

H. S. BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 20th day of Septem-
ber, 1938.

[SEAL] MIRIAM DOCHTERMANN,

Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk's No. 286. Certificate Filed in New _York
County. Clerk’s No. 10. Register's No. ODS. My commisswn
expires March 30, 1940.

