A Foreword by the Guest Editor

IT IS an honor to be asked to be guest editor of this edition of RECREATION because it is a

garden number, a new departure, in one sense, from the regular issues.

The National Recreation Association has started a survey of garden interestsfor boys
and girls all over this country.” It is something that many of us who have been long in the
field have cherished as a wish to see done but have been inadequately'provided with funds
or time to do. So it is first my pleasure to congratulate the organization on the occasion of
performing this great service for all the rest of us who are interested and working in this

field. I am also personally again honored by having one of my own assistants chosen to make

this survey.

It seemed wise and expedient to make an initial report of this work—~and what ap-
pears in this issue by no means covers the field or is in any sense a summary of the plan
originally laid down, but it is a gathering together of certain phases of garden work for boys
and girls done under different agencies doing their work according to their favorable or un-
favorable conditions. Out of this survey have been left some of those agencies which have
contributed generously to garden work both for young people and for grown-ups, the news-
papers and the magazines. These are purposely left out of the survey because they do not rep-
resent what we call technically the great avenues through which such educational work ordi-

narily runs.

Now, having completed an explanation 'of the plan of this survey, I would like to say
that out of a wealth of experience in this field of work through all the years since I left col-
lege, it still seems to me that the garden, properly used as a laboratory, and not only a labora-
tory but as a book of wisdom, is one of the greatest factors in education. A quotation from
Montaigne’s Education of Children, which has bcen quoted many a time, I would quote again

here to you. It comes from Persius—

“The clay is moist and soft; now, now make haste

And form the pitcher, for the wheel turns fast.”

And so this very impressionable clay which we call the young child is helped and molded
many times more effectively in his outside and leisure-time interests, perhaps, than through

the more routine interests of a classroom. It is for all of us to hold in mind, regardless of the
agency, that gardening for, children is for one purpose, and one purpose only—education.

ELLEN EDDY SHAW,
Brooklyn Botanic Garden.

 

MARCH l938

 

689

69

Spring Came

 

Photograph by Dorothy S. Allen

During ’rhe night
Spring came—
Qui’re unexpec’red
Welcome neglec’red
Unproclaimed—

The crocuses and ’rhe snowdrops knew
The alpines in ’rheir rock clef’rs knew
The robins and ’rhe bluebirds knew

The grass adorned wi’rh sparkling dew

And scillas decked in royal blue
All knew:-

n

V

I sensed a rus’rling in ’rhe nigh’r

I wa’rched ’rhe clouds in eerie fligh’r

Along ’rhe moon's parkway of ligh’r

I heard ’rhe s’rars in whispers say

One ’ro ano’rher in ’rheir way

Tha’r Spring had co_me and come ’ro slay—-

So in ’rhe morning ius’r for fun

I wa’rched a ’road blink in ’rhe sun
Heigh-Ho

Spring has come—-

F. Ellwood Allen.

 

Courtesy Brooklyn Botanic Garden

By ELLEN EDDY SHAW

‘ . r - - - . , , e ‘ . .

HILDREN’S WORK at the
C Brooklyn Botanic Garden

differs somewhat from what similar work
might be under other auspices. The grounds, the
greenhouses, and the scientific atmosphere natur-
ally influence the type of work done. One of the
factors that makes the work more difficult than
work would be under school auspices is the fact
that children cannot be called upon at any time or
at regular times as they might be if the work were
connected with the school or camp or recreational
organization.

The regular garden work is done as a leisure-
time project. The garden covers three—quarters of
an acre and includes a formal garden with shrub-
bery, roses, and ornamental beds; perennial bor-
der; annual border; Shake—

mind that this is not a charity or—
ganization—mthat the garden is
carried on entirely for education. The children
apply, are seen personally, must be recommended,
and are taken on their own merits and their in-
terest in the work. The ages are from eight to
nineteen and many children stay from eight or
nine years until they go to college. Others stay
one, two and three seasons according to their in-
terest, their success in their work and other out-
side conditions that influence the factor of
constancy.

All children entering the summer garden must
start in the spring, when garden plans, soil and
germination experiments, acquaintance with types
of seeds, and all the other factors are taken up

. F that enter into an under-

speare Garden; individual
vegetable plots, and experi—
mental plots for children. All
these were definitely planned
so that the children’s garden
should not drop into just a
proposition or project of rais-—
ing vegetables and flowers,
but should lead out into
wider fields of interest.

The first question often
asked is “Where do the chil-
dren come from?” Hold in

It is with a great deal of pleasure that
the National Recreation Association pre-
sents Miss Ellen Eddy Shaw as guest edi-
tor ot this issue of Recreation. This
year Miss Shaw is completing twenty-five
years of service with the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden where she is Curator of Elemen-
tary Instruction. During that time she
has spoken before many schoolsI colleges.
women's clubs and community groups of
all kinds. Because of the inspiration and
practical help which Miss Shaw has given
there are communities in all parts of the
countrywhich are todaytostering success-
ful gardening and nature study programs.

standing of what you are go-
ing to do later in the garden.
Each child pays ten cents for
his spring instruction and
twenty-live or thirty—five
cents for the outdoor garden
for the season. The garden
is open in the summer every
morning of the week except
Saturday. In the afternoon,
crop records are entered, at-
tendance books fixed. extra
work is done by the children

691

692 CHILDREN’S GARDEN iVORK IN A BOTANIC GARDEN

filling seed packets—all
sorts of work go on under
supervision.

The question of behavior
rarely comes up, since the
boys and girls are here be-
cause of real interest in the
work they are doing. An’ ac-
quaintance with common
garden flowers through the
annual and perennial bor-
ders and formal garden,
with shrubs and trees, is ex-
pected of each one of them. There is a series of
pins and medals which may be won by any and
every child if he covers the requirements. In
fact, it is a competition with one’s self. Through
these types of work strides are made by the chil-
dren in their own personal control, in their con-
tribution to group interests, and responsibility
which they take over voluntarily or through sug-
gestion. The summer’s op-
portunities are rich.

In the fall these
same children have
the opportunity to
enter the fall classes
which carry out in
part the fall opera-
tions in the garden
and also the oppor-
tunities of working
in the greenhouse
planting bulbs,
making cuttings,
and carrying out
fall nature work.
One of our plans
to stimulate inde-
pendence and re-
sponsibility is the
silver pin work.
Each child, " after
covering a certain
amount of ground,
chooses his own
special topic either
independently or
from lists of topics
posted. He then
works by himself
or with a partner
and his work is

Director.

Courtesy Brooklyn Botanic Garden

"Nature study and gardening have‘a fun-
damental contribution to make to child
health education. Unconsciously the child
who has observed the care needed by the
growing plant—good soil. regular water-
ing. sunshineI air—begins to develop a
sense of appreciation and respect for the
health care involved in his own growth and
development. School gardens have a great
contribution to make as laboratories for
health education." —- Louise Stracban,
Child Health Education,

tional Tuberculosis Association.

Children entering the Brooklyn Botanic
Garden to cultivate their garden plots

 

checked through conference
with the person who has
charge of this work. The
work sometimes is in the
outdoor garden. For exam-
ple, what are ‘the best to-
matoes to raise in Brook-
lyn? The student tries out
different varieties. Or the
N a_ silver pin topic may be the

“Family of Maples,” or

“Shrubs That Bloom in the

Spring.” The group of high
school and junior high‘school boys and girls (who
represent about one-third of the personnel of the
garden) raise all the seedling plants for the out-
door garden—hundreds of young plants. This is
done in the children’s greenhouses during the
spring. Such seedling plants as the tomatoes are
raised by the different classes in their class period
as a part of their work in preparing for the out—
door garden. Again the pri-
mary job of this garden is
education along the
lines of character
building through
such stimulating
opportunities as
any garden may
offer.

“The man who
plants his garden,
or plays his vio-
lin, or swings lusti-
ly over the hills, or
talks ideas with his
friends, is already,
even though in
small degree, in-
vesting life with
the qualities that
transform it into
the delightful and
adventurous exper-
ience it ought to
be.”-———H. A. Over-
street in “A Guide
to Civilized Loaf-

,,

mg.

School Gardens Yield Invisible Crops

"Vegetables and Flowers are by no means
the only products oi Cleveland’s school
garden tracts. Oi greater importance are
the desirable habits and character traits

developed, the recreation enioyed and
the knowledge and skills acquired."

ANY PEOPLE know in a vague way that
Cleveland has school gardens. How they
operate or what they accomplish for the

boys and girls who work in them is another mat—
ter. Tons of vegetables and bushels of flowers
are harvested by these youthful gardeners each
season, but the habits, knowledges and skills

which the children unconsciously gather with-

them are the really important crops.

Cleveland has four school garden tracts aggre-
gating about ten acres and providing individual
garden plots for some 950 boys and girls, mostly
from grades four to eight inclusive. Trained
teachers are in charge of each tract and all work
is done under their guidance
and supervision, so that
costly and discouraging mis—

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Cleveland, Ohio

An exhibit of the products of the Henry W.
Longfellow garden tract: happy boys and
girls and a goodly supply of vegetables!

By PAUL R. YOUNG

Supervisor of School Gardens

Cleveland Public Schools

takes by the children are avoided. Good soil, ade-
quate equipment and modern methods. of culture
bring successful crops which, needless to say, are
a necessary prerequisite to the less tangible but
more important returns.

School—year instruction in science and garden—
ing at the schools equipped with the garden tracts
begins, in late winter, to point toward the outdoor
garden. Pupils are given the opportunity to enroll
for a garden plot, the size varying with the grade
and capabilities of the children. Beginning gar-
dens for fourth or fifth grade youngsters are
about 200 square feet in area, those for sixth
graders about 300 square feet and junior high
gardens about 400 square
feet. To enroll, a pupil ob-
tains parental consent and

693

694 SCHOOL GARDENS YIELD INVISIBLE CROPS

pays a fee of from 40 to 75 cents, depending on
the garden size. This payment is required chiefly
as an evidence of serious intent, and is used to
purchase the seeds used and to provide some prizes
for outstanding work during the season.

As the garden season comes on, the science
classes use the garden as their laboratory. Chil-
dren not enrolled for a garden are assigned as
helpers to those who are registered gardeners.
Thus all receive instruction in preparing the soil,

planting the seeds and setting plants, and the work ‘

2/”
TOMA TOES - UMS‘ TAKED

[A m. Y PA DISHES ’

TOM/4 7055‘ *-

KOHL 5945/ ’2

Flt/E PEPPEP PLANTS

of the garden goes for-
ward with the season,
during school hours and
as a definite part of the
school program.

All garden plots of
the same size and grade
are planted according
to the same plan. Typi-
cal plans are shown in
the accompanying dia-
grams. Plots are laid
out in rows, with two
foot paths between.
Gardeners enrolled
from a particular class-
room group are assign—
ed adjacent plots and
the work on that group
of plots proceeds as a
unit. When a certain
row is to be planted, a
line is stretched in the
proper place, extending
across all the plots in a
given row. After the
needed demonstration
and instruction each
gardener, with his as-
signed helper, goes to his particular plot and does
the actual planting on it. When all have com-
pleted the work to the satisfaction of the in—
structor, the line is moved to the next row and
the process repeated. Thus, with a row or two
at a class period, the planting of the garden is
accomplished.

3y the time the school year is over in June the
gardens are well under way. Children who are
enrolled gardeners continue their work on a reg-
ular class schedule maintained throughout the
summer vacation. They meet as a class group
twice each week. Pupils not enrolled lose their

 
   

 

   

ON/OIV 675' 7'8

GREEN BAWVS -— FULL Ole/ED By 3557's

¢ 
CAPPOTS

l5"
PAPSLEV SIM/$5 CAM/PD CARROTIS‘

3:: 7'5 - FOLLOWED 5r [Na/V: ’5
cut/two 7’s ’2"

FL OWE/PS 9"

15"
- FL OWERS

FRONT OF GARDEN

BEGIN/VIP ’8

.5sz - 1.73? 2615’

touch with the garden, except as visitors, until
school opens in the fall.

Readers who recall the reluctance with which
they as children participated in the care of the
family garden “back home on the farm,” will per—
haps marvel at the fact that there is almost no
attendance problem with these boys and girls who
are growing school gardens. They come at their
appointed time week after week with surprising
regularity throughout the summer, and with an
attitude which indicates that the work has a real
“kick” in it for them.
Of course there are
grading systems and
awards of various sorts
that help maintain in-
terest and that contrib-
ute to the character
value of the work for
the child.

Each youngster is
held individually and
personally responsible
for the work on his
garden plot. He is given
no help other than coun-
sel, advice and instruc-
tion. Results are up to
him. Those results, in
the shape of vegetables

 
  
 

2"
5774 K50 ’2"

 
    

1.5 "
/ [€GPzA/W'

  
     
  

{I

      
   

£4

    
    

LETTUCE J?"

       

ward for effort put in,
and nature usually sees
to it that the reward is
about in proportion to
the effort. Records kept
by some classes indi-
cate that the cash value
of produce will average
from six to seven dol-

    

GARDEN

“lars for the small gardens, nine to ten dollars for

the medium sized plots, and twelve to fifteen dol-
lars for the large junior high plots. One junior
high boy who kept a record of his produce had a
total value of $23.14 from his 15’ x28’ plot.
Woven around these objective resultsare the
subjective values of the gardens to the children
who work in them. The school garden tracts in

an unusual degree bring under the control and.

guidance of the teacher those real life situations
and experiences which are now generally accepted
as the only effective means of character training.
The garden is real, not a school imitation. It is a

and flowers, are his re- -



SCHOOL GARDENS YIELD INVISIBLE CROPS 095

 

project carried on by each
child as one of a group,
and as such he is subject-
ed to group influences and
pressures that provide a socially valuable training.

Character habits and traits inevitably strength—
ened by the exercise they receive in the garden
tract work are patience, industry, carefulness,
punctuality, responsibility, consideration for others,
honesty, and many others in particular cases.
Some of these values grow out of the gardening
itself, others out of the fact that it is a group
activity. The inevitable response of a garden to
careful, patient, painstaking work, and its lack of
response to the absence of these factors, is in itself
a potent lesson taught by the activity rather than
the teacher. The group pressures demanding
punctual attendance, conformity to standards of
excellence, and observation of property rights, are
influences for good of great
importance although the chil—
dren are entirely unconscious
of their action. Garden knowl-
edges and skills are within the
province of the teacher and his
lessons, and a youngster par—

lowing schools:

A row of garden plots at the Benjamin Franklin
garden tract. The photograph shows the
continuity of the rows across the individual
plots as well as the paths separating the plots

The gardens which are described by
Mr. Young are located at the fol-
Benjamin Franklin.
Harvey Rice. Henry W. Longfellow
and Thomas A. Edison. Visitors are
invited to see these centers.

ticipating in the tract gar-
den work for a year or
two cannot help but ac-
quire a goodly store of
them that will stand him in good stead through-
out life, wherever he goes or whatever he does.

Even more immediate satisfactions accrue from
this garden work. A few minutes’ observation on
one of the tracts during a summer day would con-
vince one that unadulterated enjoyment on the
part of the pupil is no small factor in his suc-
cess. The work is fun, and what happier com-
bination than this is to be found? Parents, too,
find comfort in the vacation hours profitably em-
ployed by their children, away from the dangers
of city streets, in wholesome company and health-
ful environment.

School and juvenile authorities are convinced of
the need of playgrounds for our children, and
rightly so. Could they but ob-
serve the values in a properly
conducted school garden, their
vision of what constitutes a
playground could hardly stop
with the expanse of ,cinders or

(Continued on page 734)

Learning in a Garden

HEN THE Camp Fire
Girls write us the stories
of their gardens it is the

There .is much to learn in a
garden, and Camp Fire Girls
are making many discoveries.

vegetables. I planted red kidney
beans and radishes. I also planted
the newest kind of sweet scented
nasturtium.

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

notes on what they would do
differently that are the most
poignant. “Next year I’ll plant
my seeds as early as possible,”
a fourteen year old girl writes
wistfully—“the time of bloom—
ing was all too short.” How
many older and more experienced gardeners echo
her resolve! Over-crowding, disappointing color
combinations, plants that died in the moving, the
eternal battle with insect pests, the vagaries of sun
and rain, helpful dads and admiring families, all
these we glimpse in the garden diaries which the
girls send to National Headquarters They are
experiencing at first hand the ups and downs, the
joys and disappointments of the gardener, taking,
with trial-and-error, trial-and-success, those first
steps on the long flower and fertilizer strewn path
from which there is no turning. For who, once
having nurtured a garden through its first season,
can resist the temptation to try again, to do this
quite differently and that much better?

Diaries Tell the Story

3ut share with us the diary of one of the girls.
We wish we could quote it all, but here are
enough of the entries to give you the color and

drama of Estelle Parker’s garden from seed to'

frost, and incidentally, a glimpse of Estelle too.

May 30. I stood bossing the job to see he didn’t dig
the wrong thing as my father spaded the little garden spot.

May 31. A few balsams had reseeded so Itransplanted
them to ,the spots that suited my fancy. In order that the
gaillardia plants may grow better. I separated
the plants and replaced them in different parts
of the garden.

June 1. It is supposed to be impossible to
transplant annual poppies, but I decided to
try it. I found that it is possible if you leave
enough dirt on the roots and water them
frequently.

June 3. In the back of
my garden behind the
flowers I have a row of

Editorl Department of Publications
Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

June 15. The garden needed a
little attention so I hoed out the

By C. FRANCES Looms weeds.

June 28. I picked gaillardias
for a special birthday bouquet for
my little three year old nephew.
The petunias that blossomed out
today were purple.

July 5. The poppies and more gaillardias began blos-
soming this morning.

July 12. The beautiful balsam began to show its
dainty lavender color today.

July 17. The sun has been so hot for the last few days
that I decided to give the plants a drink.

July 19. The next flower that began to blossom was a
big double yellow calendula. I also transplanted a few
salpiglossis as the moss roses which I planted a few weeks
ago didn’t come up. The seed was old.

July 25. I hoed the garden and as I have been helping
clean the garage I found some fertilizer that the plants
would relish. The radishes have been eaten up and in
their place I planted lettuce.

August 3. The garden is in full bloom and a most
beautiful sight.

August 6. I gave the garden some more artificial rain
from the hose.

August 9. The zinnias began to blossom. The first
one was quite small.

August 13. The weeds grow exceedingly fast; I had
to hoe the garden again today.

August 16. During this whole month the flowers have
been in full bloom and a gorgeous sight.

August 21. It rained again today so I was unable to
hoe the garden and made a burnt sugar cake instead.

August 23. The family had to admire the big orange-
red zinnia blossom. It is five and a half inches in di-
ameter and the largest one in the yard. We call it David
Harum as it came from seed obtained from that radio
skit.

August 27. I took seed pods off the poppies and put
the seeds away for next year’s planting.

August 30. After I gave up hopes of the nasturtiums
ever blossoming, they fooled me and did blossom. They
are a beautiful yellow with the green foliage.

September 1. To my disgust the asters that opened
were pink and white instead of purple or red. , }

September 4. Used a little elbow grease on my hoe to
the delight of the flowers.

Wild Flowers in. the Home Garden

Courtesy Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

LEARNING IN A GARDEN 697

September 12. Next year I hope to put my plants out
earlier so that I may have a longer blooming period.

It is not necessary, is it, to point out all that
Estelle and hundreds of other girls are learning
in their gardens?

Luella Hill is thirteen, and she goes in for
gourds. Her diary is illustrated with pen and ink
sketches and from sprouting seed to leaves, ten-
drils, flowers and finally the gourds themselves.
These few extracts from Luella’s diary give you

a picture of her gourds, and of Luella too.

July 15. I tilled the soil and planted the gourd seeds
on July 15, 1937. The first plants appeared July 19th,
four days after planting.

July 30. Today the gourds showed two distinct joints
on most of the plants. At each joint leaves were starting.

August 3. The first tendrils made their appearance.
They also originated at the joint formations.

August 7. The tendrils had made amazing 'growth.
They grew two inches then divided into two or three
feeler-like tendrils. Some showed indications of curling
up. Some of the longest ones measured six inches from
the gourd joint to the end.

August 10. Daddy helped me put up a wire fence-
like place for these ambitious
gourds to climb upon. In less than
half an hour some of the gourd
tendrils nearest the wire had be-
gun to wind about it.

August 12. Spent some time with
the gourds trying to direct their
climbing toward the fence. I noted
the aphis had arrived and tried to
get them off. The twelve-spotted
beetle had destroyed a few leaves. I killed some of them.
Tiny bud-like formations are appearing from the main
vine where joints suggesting blossoms are in the making.

August 13. Well, today I have helpers with my gourd
insects. The red lady-bird beetles were numerous and
after aphis. I hope they remain. There is a fine spine-
like formation of the stems and under leaves on main
veins. It is sticky and prickly to the touch. It is the
same as found on pumpkin and cucumber vines.

August 18. The first bloom appeared. It had four
petals and a cone-like center which had six divisions.

August 21. There were two more blossoms. These
had the same center. formation but had five petals. All
the blooms thus far have had small gourds forming at
the base of the blossom and are attached to the main
stalk at a joint with a leaf right close at the same joint.

August 22. I have been watching a small yellow gourd
formation. Today it was the size of an ordinary marble
and the bloom opened this morning. I have green and
yellow gourds thus far; later two more blossoms opened.
These were smaller and have a different center. This
type of blossom does not have gourds forming. The
squash blossoms are of two types similar to the gourds.

.' The blossoms are always closed by 11 o’clock.

August 23. Measured the longest gourd vine today
and it is 4% feet long, and the joints are about 3 to 4
inches apart. All the vines are climbing the Wire mesh

fence and growing as if they liked to reach up. Two
blooms with small gourd attached, and live without.
Noticed all blooms without gourd formation are low on
the vines. \Vh'en the blooms die they give a twist as if
to close and protect the centers from intruders.

September 4. From the time the first blooms appeared
there have been a few each day and sometimes quite a
large number. The gourds are practically matured now
and the vines are beginning to die. The longest vine is
about eight feet high. Some of,the gourds are pear
shaped, others round, while some have a suggestion of a
neck. There are all yellow gourds and some with orange
stripes, others with white stripes, green with light green
stripes, light green with dark stripes, yellow and green,
and some light green ones with warts on them.

Mary Alice Snead, too, struggled with aphis,
and pays grateful tribute to the ladybug in these
amusing verses:

SERVICE ,

(Dedicated to Ladybugs)
Ladybug, Ladybug, do not fly home
N 0 house is on fire and no children will'burn.
There is food by the mass in the wild cherry tree
Awaiting your pleasure, delicious and free.

Ladybug, Ladybug, now you may

Give fools their gold. and knaves go.
their power:

Let Fortune's bubbles rise and fall;

Who sows a field or trains a flower.

Or plants a tree. is more than all.

Your job is done perfectly, all of
us know.

Ev’ry aphid is eaten, each leaf
clean as new,

And the tree can now thrive again,
thanks, ma’am, to you.

—Wbittier.

Gardening Honors

When we revised the Book of the Camp Fire
Girls last year we went into a huddle with garden
experts throughout the country and came out with
fifty “honors” suggestions of activities the girls
could do in gardening. These are, of comse, in
close relation to the honors in Nature Study of
which there are 349. We also revised our require-
ments for rank, suggesting seventeen different
ways in which girls might earn their rank as
Torch Bearers, Gardening, Nature Lore and Con.-
servation being three of them. It is no mean
achievement for a girl in her teens to earn this
rank in gardening, as a glance at the requirements

will show :

1. Plant and care for a flower garden and keep a
garden diary for three months, including cost,
diagram of planting, color scheme, dates when
flowers were planted, when they bloomed and
when they finished blooming, What you did for
soil culture and protection from insects, and notes
about results and what you would do differently.

698

The garden should contain at least five different
kinds of plants.

2. Supply your family with two varieties of

vegetables from your own garden for one season.

3. Choose one:

.-\. Design a landscape plot for
your home, school, or church
grounds, planning continuous
blooming from Spring to fall,
color scheme, shrubs, peren-

nials and annuals.
B. Be responsible for
having some un-
sightly spot in your
town cleaned up and
improved with flow-
ers, grass, shrubs, or
trees; or for having
a garden, shrubs, or
trees planted at school or on the grounds of some
other public building; or for having trees or
shrubs planted along a city block; or for having
flowers or trees planted along a highway. This
means getting people interested enough in the
idea so that it is carried out, you to help with the
planning and work.

4. Demonstrate to a group two types of flower
arrangement and tell how to cut garden flowers
and care for them for home decoration.

Courtesy Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

5. Demonstrate to a group how to prepare the
soil for potting a plant and pot it. Explain how
the same principle applies to preparing garden soil.

6. Demonstrate to a group how to test soil to
show whether it is alkaline or acid and name six
plants that grow best in each kind of soil.

7. Earn three of the following Nature Honors:
3011 305! 306: 307: 308! 312: 313) 315: 317: 320:
322, 325.

8. Start a garden reference library, which
should include a scrapbook or card file of clip-
pings, pictures, and notes; catalogues, pamphlets
and bulletins published by the U. S. Government
and state authorities, magazines, and other or-
ganizations; books if possible.

Many an older person would hesitate to accept
the challenge of these requirements, but the teens
have zest and courage and a will to finish what
they start.

A Conservation Project

Not all of the girls’ gardens are made at home.
Some decorate school grounds, parks and road-
sides. This year the Camp Fire Girls are stressing

LEARNING IN A GARDEN

  
   
  
 
 
 
  

There are instances in which
Camp Fire Girls have wild
flower gardens. but they are
not encouraged in the indis-
cr i m i n a t e
moving of
wild flower
plants.

conservation as a special. project and among their
many activities is the planting of native trees and
shrubs. On the school grounds of Ada, Okla-
homa, they are planting redbuds; on the school
grounds of Atlanta, Georgia, dogwood. In some
places the girls have wild flower gardens, but we
do not encourage indiscriminate moving of wild
flower plants. They are advised to move plants
mainly from land that is being broken up for road
making or building, and then only’under expert
advice. The girls seem to be especially successful
with trillium, violets and the hardier ferns. At

some of our camps the girls have gardens, wild ,

and otherwise, and the gardens are as varied as
the locality of the camps—from the cactus garden
at the Long Beach, California camp to the fern—
ery at the New York camp.

There is much to learn in a garden and not all
of it is about the ways of flowers. We are glad
that so many Camp Fire Girls are starting out on
the fine adventure of making gardens of their
own.

“To those who are contemplating the making of
a garden it will be interesting to know that if their
labors do not at first bring satisfactory results
they may take consolation from the fact that
Washington had similar troubles. He was forever
experimenting with flowers and soils, and his
diaries and letters describing his gardening and
farming operations are often frank to confess that
as he has not obtained the results he is in search
of, he will have to try again.”—From George
l/Vashingtonz Gardener, “American Forests.”

l

I
U
A.
f l

l
I
l
J

. . I
\
Iflti

Children Garden and Grow

' orHING interests growing
N children, yes, growing

people, quite like grow-
ing things, plants and animals.
Take it as truth that children
will most attentively attend a
plant or an animal. And they
will develop as much real re-
sponsibility in this relationship
as through any other school as-

By VIERLING KERSEY

Superintendent of Schools
Los Angeles. California

I

"We recognize the 'LiHle Garden'
movement as being a most im-
portant phase of education. and
we sense if to be one of the most
significant of all recreational
activities. May it prosper!"

others and to learn the value of
cooperative endeavor. Thus a
program for school gardening
provides rich opportunity for
children to become socially
adjusted. ’
Emotional balance is best se-
cured and maintained through
wholesome interests and hob-
bies. How often the emotionally
or nervously afi‘licted person

signment.

There is no life situation for
a child that cannot tie him to growing things,
especially plants. Our Los Angeles City Schools
give due recognition to this fundamental idea.
What is more, we are doing things.

No activity can better test the validity of the
new liberalized curriculum for our public schools
than can school gardening. Our schools of today
are devoted to the individual child and are dedi-
cated to meet his needs for healthful living, social
adjustment, emotional stability, recognition of in-
dividual interests and abilities, provision of op-
portunity for original thinking and planning, and
for the orientation of the child intellectually and
industrially.

Curriculum- content and teaching methods of
today will be appraised to determine how well
pupils are. socialized, how efhciently and coopera-
tively they apply skills and knowledge in solving
real problems and to what‘ extent they become
contributing citizens.

The work of the school must directly relate to
the child’s deep constitutional demands. It must
be a vital and absorbing life, definitely concerned
with life needs and situations, rather than a pro-
gram of purely intellectual pursuits designed to
meet only professional and cultural needs.

The first few years of a child’s life are precious
and significant in conditioning patterns of re-
sponse. At perhaps no later age level is it so im-
portant to provide experiences which will stimu—
late desired outcomes. A program of school gar—
dening provides such rich opportunities. It pro-
vides opportunity for out-of-door activity which
has point and purpose and which is an important
factor in conditioning a child’s health pattern.

Through group organization and activity the
child is provided with opportunity to work with

turns to the great outdoors for
quieting comfort and solace!

The school garden program provides oppor-
tunity for the pupil to enjoy close communion
with the great outdoors, and permits him quite
unconsciously to embrace its bigness and relax
from the nervous and emotional tension induced
by close application to intellectual pursuits.

A program of school gardening enables the
child to explore, to seek new interests and abili-
ties and to satisfy the basic urge of working with
the soil and plant life which Springs from it.

A school garden is a veritable laboratory for a
child’s introduction into scientific investigation
and research. Simple chemistry of soil problems
intrigues the childish mind. Plant propagation,
budding and grafting challenge his thinking,
stimulate his imagination and in the majority of’
cases induce profitable action.

A school garden is a vital link between home
and school. Here ideas are commonly shared,
plants and cuttings are exchanged, and sugges-
tions and advice are generously given by the
teacher to the child in his home activity. Thus
the school garden becomes an integral and vital
part of the child’s life in his relationship to school,
home and community.

School records indicate many cases wherein the
civic beautification and planning of entire com-
munities may be traced to the influence of a fine
school garden with a fine teacher personality as
its director.

Depressions come and go and unfortunately
schools, like industry, feel these depression cycles.
It is sad to record that during such times some of
our most vital school subjects have been termed
“extra-curricular” and therefore to be dispensed
with in times of stress.

699

700 CHILDREN GARDEN AND GROW

Perhaps it is an ill wind
that blows no good, for out
of apparent misfortune comes
great good fortune. Through
the loss of a definite program
of gardening activitiesin many
schools during this emer—
gency, it is possible that we
have emerged with a program
more basic, more substantial
and much more productive.

Since individuals engaged in the profession of a

teaching are now demanding that each step in the
educative process have a definite relationship and
contribution to the whole, we are ceasing to think
of a school gardening program as a separate de-
partment wholly unrelated to other school activi—
ties. We are now viewing it as a part of the
whole, and our school gardening teacher is find-
ing himself concerned with all gardening work
growing out of each grade’s activities. He will
be equally valuable in guidance and direction to
kindergarten and sixth grade pupils. His garden
area will no longer exist to make a model or show
place, but rather it will be an area wherein the
actual needs of the children are met through their
own thinking, planning, and industry.

Aesthetic appreciations and cultural develop-
ment will result through the opportunity of grow-
ing beautiful blossoms and arranging them artis-‘
tically in classrooms and halls.

The school garden will become a center of com-
munity activity through the desire of a far-seeing
and deep-thinking leader who senses the possi-
bility of serv-
ing community
needs.

No longer are
we thinking in
terms of tradi-
tional subject
matter as the
c o r e o f o u r
school curricu-
lum. We are
endeavoring to
give children
actual experi-
ence in plan-
ning, executing
and evaluating
the activities
which relate to

Courtesy Brooklyn Botanic Garden

"To grow something out of the soil. to
work and tend it with his own hands. to
reap a harvest of beauty or a bountiful
meal. brings into the heart and life of
the little child a consciousness of his
reliance upon Mother Earth and a
love for the soil which helps to clar-
ify his thinking. to make cleaner and
better his living. and to ennoble his
soul."—-Willis A. Sutton, Superin-
tendent of Schools. Atlanta. Georgia.

 

their personal living. A school
gardening program provides
rich opportunity for children
to explore a wealth of activi—
ties directly related to their
personal living. In so doing
they may grow in healthful
living, in social adjustment
and in emotional stability.
Children will tap new inter-
ests and develop new abilities.
They will develop cultural and aesthetic apprecia-
tions which make for more colorful and satisfy-
ing living.

From a brief SUpplementary report of school
gardens in Los Angeles elementary schools, we
learn that there are about 190 elementary schools
—nearly two-thirds of the total number—maintain-
ing sizable gardens. These average about 7,000
square feet in size and all but three of them are
located on school grounds. Many other schools are
cultivating small areas in nooks and corners and
along the margins of school grounds.

In the regular elementary sch0015, at the pres-
ent time, gardening instruction is given largely by
classroom teachers. There are, however, about ten
teachers who might be classed as “special”-because
of their training and the amount of time which
they devote to gardening activities.

Inmost schools having gardens children of sev—
eral grades participate, and in some most of the
grades have gardening. Garden experiences are
supplemented by a variety of studies of plants,
animals and in-
sects conducted
in the class-
rooms, such as
miniature gar-
dens, cactus
bowls, potted
plants, terraria
and aquaria,
steads and sim-
ilar projects.
Three garden
centers main-
tained with NY
A aid supply
much plant ma-
terial for use
inside and out-
side of schools.

Gardening with the 4-H Clubs

. CLUB WORK is based
4-H not only on the

needs and interests
of 4-H club members, but also on the needs and
interests of the agricultural community of which
they are a part in accordance with the objectives
of the general extension organization under the
direction of the State Colleges of Agriculture in
cooperation with the U. S. Department of Agri-
culture. Rural young people in their organized
4-H clubs feel that they have a useful part of the
world’s work to do, and that in doing it they may
grow mentally, socially and spirit-
ually. They also feel that they
have a delinite respon-
sibility in improving
their community and in
making it finer in every
way.

In all such work,
learning to make con-
tacts with outstanding
men and women of the
community in positions
concerned with the pub-
lic welfare has been
emphasized as an im-
portant step in learning
to serve one’s own com-
munity effectively.
Moreover, reports in-
dicate that young peo-
ple in such work have
been afforded a de-
lightful opportunity to
work side by side with
their parents and neigh-
bors. They have learn-
ed to recognize and to
meet local needs under
varying circumstances,
and thereby have gain-
ed valuable experience
as young citizens. If
enough provision is
made for exercise in
assuming responsibility,
reports indicate, an in-
creasing number of

By GERTRUDE L. WARREN
U. S. Department of Agriculture

An Oxford County. Maine. boy

makes tomatoes his chief crop

 

young people are being kept
in touch with the best in home
and farm life, and are develop-

ing thereby a true sense of civic responsibility and

genuine leadership in making their community a
better place in which to live.

In this connection, the 4-H garden and orchard .
club work has played a prominent part. During
the last year '4-H home garden club members
totaled in all more than 200,000—a considerable
increase over the preceding year. In addition,
over 12,000 were enrolled in the market-garden
work. In all, nearly a million
bushels of vegetables were pro-
duced, much of which
were grown in accord-
ance with a garden bud-
get plan for the entire
family. Frequently it
has been noted that the
making of a budget one
year has been the cause
of planning more care-
fully a garden and can-
ning the surplus the
next year. In a few
states 4-H club girls
became interested in
herb gardens and the
use of herbs in their
4-H food preparation
work.

In the flower-garden
work, including the
beautification of the
home grounds, there
was a total enrollment
of over 80,000 mem-
bers. Of particular in-
terest in this' connec-
tion were the stories of
4-H club girls and boys
who took entire charge
of their home-yard im-
provement work and
demonstrated in an out-
standing way how to
improve the soil for
planting, select and

, 701

70.3 GARDENING lVITH THE 4-H CLUBS

 

And in Walton County. Georgia. the study of
flowers proves interesting to 4-H Club girls

transplant native trees and
shrubbery, treat walks,
drives, or fences, develop mass plantings and
screen unsightly buildings. Beautification of road-
sides, village greens, and public grounds in gen-
eral also received much attention by many 4-H
clubs.

.Although relatively new, of importance in pro-
viding ample fruit for the farm family, were the
4—H orchard—club demonstrations under way, in
which much care was used in determining the
number of fruit trees, bushes and grapes neces-
sary, from the standpoint of the nutritional needs
of all members of the family. The orchard plans,
once worked out, were conscientiously followed
by all 4-H club members enrolled for such demon-
strations. According to the last reports, there
were nearly 20,000 of these members who pro—
duced over 60,000 bushels of fruit. Most of the
garden and orchard club work was conducted by
4—H members in relation to the nutritional needs
of the family, yet in many instances considerable
financial profit was realized.

The 4-H club girls in South Carolina were so
deeply interested in gardens and flowers that 500
of them had hot beds made for starting their
\ cgctables and flowering plants and 1,267 of them

did some phase of home
beautification Work.

In old Virginia, Ossie Wade reported having a
garden 90 feet wide and 210 feet long which fed
three people all season. In addition, a considera-
ble amount was canned or stored for the winter.
Ossie’s record book shows fertilizer, plowing and
other expenses amounting to only $10.75.

In Pennsylvania, 4-H reports show that with
such special crops as sweet corn, tomatoes, canta-
loupes, cabbage and cucumbers, there were 1,352
members who also kept cost account records.

In many states all club members, both boys and
girls, as has been the practice for a number of
years, checked their food .and health habits and
gave special attention to the raising and prepara-
tion of those fruits and vegetables found lack-
ing in their diet. In addition, 4—H club members
during 1937 canned their garden surplus amount-
ing to several million jars of vegetables. Much
attention also has been given by 4-H club mem-
bers to the proper preparation of fruits and vege-
tables for exhibit at 4-H Achievement Day meet-
ings and county 4—H fairs, as well as for display
purposes in connection with the selling of the
surplus on curb markets or at roadside stands.

(Continued on page 734)

l'

Teaching Agriculture in a City High School

The methods by which agricultural courses are
conducted in a city high school, and the re-
sults secured in twenty-years of experimen-
tation are described in this interesting story

UR Vocational Agricul—
O tural Department in

the Jamaica Plain High
School, according-to the rec-
ords of the United States
Department of the Interior, is now the largest
agricultural department in the state and the sec-
ond largest department in the United States in a
strictly city high school. Our present enrollment
is 160 pupils, an increase of 55 per cent since
1931. Large as it is, however, there has been no
stampede into this department, and its enrollment
is but a modest fraction of the 32,000 high school
pupils in our Boston high schools. We have heard
about farm boys moving cityward. This depart-
ment is for boys facing farmward.

The course covers three years, one half of the
school day being spent on agriculture, and one
half on the best general education the high school
has to offer. Instruction is both scientific and
practical. The” pupils are taken out for actual
agricultural observations and practice every week
by their instructors.

Boston and its immediate vicinity has led in the
development of new varieties of plants such as the
Concord grape, the Baldwin and Roxbury russet
apples, Bartlett and Clapp’s pears, Boston Market
celery, Golden Bantam corn, Mary and Martha
Washington asparagus and many others too nu-
merous to mention. The Farm
and Trades School’ on Thomp-

By THOMAS P. DOOLEY
Head of the Agricultural Department
Jamaica Plain High School
Boston. Massachusetts

Out of the happy and successful experi-

poultry, turkey, swine and
dairy farms in N eedham and
Dedham, and market gardens
in Arlington and Belmont.
‘ Within Boston itself might
be listed the great Faneuil Hall market, the flower
marts on Tremont Street, the big fruit auction,
potato market and milk center located in Charles-
town, the Boston Park System, the Arnold Ar-
boretum, the huge estates of Jamaica Plain. _In
the nearby communities we find flower, vegetable,
poultry and fruit stores, ice cream plants and
stores, and landscaping around the smaller estates
and homes.

The Department has a large bus and a station
wagon type of car. In these the pupils are safely
and quickly conveyed by their teachers to scenes
of professional agricultural activity, such as
Esty’s market garden in Newton, Cochrane’s
poultry farm and Whittemore’s fruit farm in
Canton, the Arnold Arboretum in Jamaica Plain,
DeLuca’s greenhouses in Dedham, and the dairy
manufacturers plants in the immediate vicinity of
this school. Thus these pupils “learn by doing”
and make valuable seasonal contacts on farms and
other centers with men actually engaged in their
daily professions of agriculture. When spring ar-
rives these students are released from school, “A”
students about May Ist and “B” students on May
I 5th, if they have satisfact—
ory places of agricultural em-
ployment. They carry on

son’s Island, Boston Harbor,
has been teaching Agricul-
ture since 1931 with Boston
boys leading in attendance.
Private societies have been
conducting garden work for
forty odd years prior to the
organizing of this work.

Resources Near at Hand

Around the fringe of Bos—
ton’s border line we find

ences which l0.000 elementary school
children of Boston in the school and
home garden proiects made- possible by
the School Committee in cooperation
with the Park Department, Women's Mu-
nicipal League and other local groups,
come a number of pupils each year who
want to follow agricultural careers. To
meet this need the School Committee,
since I9l8. has been conducting agri-
cultural courses at the Jamaica Plain
High School. Each year the enrollment
has increased and interest grown.

their farm practice through
the summer under the super—
vision of their employers and
guidance of their agricul-
tural teachers who visit them
every two weeks to advise,
encourage and instruct them
while they are “on the job.”
They “learn while learning.”

To round out their train-
ing these pupils visit all the

703

704 TEACHING AGRICULTURE IN A CITY HIGH SCHOOL

nearby agricultural fairs,
such as Brockton, Topsfleld,
the Boston poultry show and
the spring flower show to ex-
hibit and judge vegetables,
poultry, fruit, flowers, cattle
and milk. Here they compete
with pupils from other agri-
cultural schools of the state,
and Boston’s city-trained pu-
pils have won many ribbons,
medals and cups for state
championships in judging
vegetables, poultry, cattle, fruit and flowers. Three
to four hundred of these prizes are given out at
the annual spring agricultural assembly each
year. .

At the recent Topsfield Fair, the flower and
cattle judging teams won first places and the fruit
team third place honors—-—a fairly good accom-
plishment for city boys competing against farm
lads from the more rural agricultural schools!
The flower judging and plant identification teams
from this school have won first team honors for
four years at the annual spring flower show held
in Boston under the auspices of the Massachu-
setts Horticultural Society. The exhibits of typi-
cal city landscape problems vs. a “city back yard
garden,” “penthouse garden,” “window garden,”
have been awarded the Society’s silver medal for
six years. This school has been called a “prize
winning outfit.” Prize winning teams, like win-
ning athletic teams, are merely incidental parts of
education used to motivate better classroom work,
teach pupils to attend fairs, to learn good plant
varieties and touch elbows and meet the pupils
from other schools in good natured rivalry.

The Massachusetts Horticultural Society and
similar organizations are now cooperating with
our school in building up a very healthy coopera-
tive relationship by developing judging contests
and sponsoring exhibits of typical civic improve-
ments. Annually this society employs from
twenty-five to fifty of our pupils as guides and
assistant horticultural judges at their spring
flower show. On an average, four hundred pupils
from the school pay a small admission fee each
year to see these beautiful shows.

Summer Work

Of the total of 160 pupils in the courses, 95 per
cent were engaged in successful practice during
the past summer in spite of employment difficul-

Mr. Dooley pays tribute to the work of
his five fellow agricultural teachers at
the Jamaica Plain High School. all
trained specialists in agriculture and
educationI who are untiring in their et-
torts to maintain the highest possible
standards in the agricultural courses,
to the head master of the schoolI to
interested city. state and national of-
ficials and to the Agricultural Advisory
Committee whose advice and coopera-
tion have contributed to so great a
degree to the sUccess of the project.

ties and discouragements
which face city pupils work-
ing on farms and estates
throughout Massachusetts.
Twelve out of sixteen sen-
iors who had completed our
three-year course carried on,
although summer practice for
them is not compulsory.
Graduates of this'course are
now living throughout the
New England states, manag-
ing farms and market gar-
dens, conducting flower stores, Serving as chem-
ists in dairy plants, teaching agriculture, ' and
working as agricultural scientists, agricultural
radio announcers, landscape gardeners, poultry-
men, foresters, fruit growers, greenhouse work-
ers, nurserymen, greenskeepers, golf course man-
agers and estate managers. I
Agricultural employers are now asking for the
services of our pupils during their busy seasonal
periods, during the summer and after graduation.
These employers invariably are very enthusiastic

- about these city school trained pupils.

The Process of Selection

Last spring the pupils were allowed to leave
school for summer agricultural practice from May
first on, depending on their scholastic grades. A
very marked reaction came from employers, pu-
pils and teachers; still greater results will be at-
tained as this device is further worked out.

A very notable piece of pioneer work which has
attracted wide attention is the device for finding
the right type of students for these courses.
Candidates are urged, at the spring meeting in the
high school for enrolling, to work during the com-
ing summer on farms, estates and home gardens
under the supervision of the agricultural teachers,
as a means of proving their interest and their
aptitude for agricultural careers. Each year ap-
proximately forty per cent of the candidates find
by such actual working experience that this type
of education is not to their liking and do not re-
turn in September. Thus the School Committee
saves much money, teachers are able to concen—
trate on pupils with a sound background, and the
pupils are helped to find themselves.

Sharing in Community Activities

During the latter part of May 1935, our De-
partment cooperated with the Boston Welfare

1‘15..lc1111\o‘ -itxh’lt‘t. [.1 L'Rlz IN A CITY HIGH SCHOOL 705

Department in making a survey of all available
plots of land in Boston which might be used as
sustenance gardens during the summer. About fifty
pupils surveyed, drew plans and described these
plots. Again this department has cooperated with
local churches, schools and other groups in plan-
ning and carrying through civic improvements.
Our department, although it is now limited to
180 pupils, is equipped to extend training in agri-
cultural education to an increasing proportion of
our population and is desirous of doing so.
Yearly it is finding new outlets for the better
training of its students and for helping the citi—
zens of Boston in civic development problems
along both agricultural and horticultural lines.
Ours is not a “dead end” course. Graduates
may attend the Stockbridge School of Agricul—
ture at Amherst for a year or may enter the four-
year courses at the Massachusetts State College at
Amherst, and many have done so. Five graduates
of this department did post—graduate work and
received degrees of Doctor of Philosophy from
Harvard University. They are now holding re-
sponsible agricultural
and biological posi-
tions in various parts
of the United States.
Over thirty trainees
carried on with col-
lege or additional
study to fit them for
higher positions.
This vocational
course has never
been a barrier to
higher education ; ex-
perience indicates that

This exhibit: ar-
ranged by a group
of Jamaica Plain
High School boys
and displayed ,at
the annual spring

flower show of the
Massa chusetts Hor-

ticultural SocietyI
in I934, represent—
ed a miniature su-
burba n estate

it has been the means of inspiring many boys to
heights they would otherwise not have attempted.

Our twenty years’ experience in conducting
courses and the concrete results secured in the
establishment of scores of our graduates in agri—
cultural pursuits, have led us to believe that our
Boston School Committee has been justified in
establishing and fostering these agricultural
courses.

“The general trend of many phases of both gen-
eral and special education is to carry most pupils
away from a complete consideration of their nature
environment. Life in the congested parts of our
cities permits no appreciation of the plant and
animal life of the fields and forests. The movies,
the struggle of parents to earn at least a fair liv—
ing, the desire of young people to prepare to earn
money, the occasional dislike of school and other
factors seem to make many children indifferent to
the natural environment of their suburban homes.”
—JlIarvin M. Brooks, Director, Nature Study and
School Gardens, New York City Schools.

 

Helping Children’s Gardens Grow

HE OUTSTANDING
Texample of the

work of the gar-
den program of the
the National Plant,
Flower and Fruit
Guild is that of the
New York City branch, whose
president is Mrs. James Roose-
velt, which maintains the chil-
dren’s gardens on Avenue A on
a plot of ground comprising three city blocks,
from 64th to 67th Streets, loaned to it for this
purpose by the Rockefeller Foundation. These
gardens were organized in 1911. The first year
saw the enrollment of sixty-four little gardeners
from among the children of the neighborhood.
Later a plan was worked out whereby a little
plot was given to each child in a group of boys
and girls convalescing from cardiac diseases and
tuberculosis. This proved most beneficial. Mr.
F. Stanley Howe of the Rockefeller Institute, in
an article about the gardens which appeared a few
years ago in the H omoletic Review, said: “When
an epidemic swept over the city in 1916 and pub—
lic playgrounds in the district were closed as a
precaution against its further spread, these gar-
dens were kept open, and a careful check by the
garden director after the epidemic had passed
showed that not one of her little gardeners had
been afflicted.”

An important phase of these gardens is the edu-
cational value they have for each child. Under
the supervision of Miss Henrietta Munckwitz, the
garden director, the children are taught the plant-
ing and cultivating of their flowers and vegetables,
and” with this individual work lessons are also
given, by observation, on the growing of various
plants and medicinal herbs, and instruction is
given regarding .their use and

their value to man. All my hur+s

Since its inception in I893, the National Plant,
Flower and Fruit Guild has encouraged the mak-
ing of gardens by children and the formation of
garden clubs for boy's and girls. This it has ac-
complished through its various branches and clubs-

By IDA WHITE PARKER
Executive Secretary

dens. The Guild fre-
quently speaks of
them as its “League
of Nations” since
seventeen different
nationalities have
'been represented in a
single season.

Planting Day, when the gar—
dens are opened each spring,
usually in May, is a gala occa-
sion. There is a flag raising, talks are given, and
ice cream is served. On Harvest Day, in the fall,
when an exhibition is held showing the best prod-
ucts of the gardens, there are again refreshments
and prizes are awarded. The gardens are' then
“put to bed” for their long winter nap until the
spring returns.

In Other Cities

The branch of the Guild at New Canaan, Con-
necticut has since 1923 maintained extensive gar-
dens. The report for 1936-37 showed an enroll-
ment of 240 children who, under the direction of
Miss Katherine O’Brien, supervisor of the gar-
dens, were taught how best to raise vegetables and
flowers for home consumption and for sale. Pic-
nics and a Field Day always formed part of the
summer’s activities, and a real festival is held on
Achievement Day when an exhibition of vege—
tables and flowers grown by the children takes
place. This usually brings a large crowd of in~
terested parents and friends to see the awarding
of the certificates of merit of which nearly 100
were distributed last year. The coveted award of
attendance at the short course at Storr’s Agricul-
tural College was won by three girls and one boy.

In 1926 the Brooklyn branch of the Guild es-
tablished a garden for the children in the Home

for Consumptives. Through the
cooperation of the Brooklyn Bo-

tanic Garden seeds were distrib-
uted and the planting supervised.
Vegetables were grown as well as
flowers, and after harvest the
fresh vegetables were eaten by
the children while the flowers

(Continued on page 736)

The little garden plots measure
abo.ut 5’ X 10’, and there are so
many children applying for gar- '
den space that sometimes several

are assigned to one plot. More
than 2,000 children enjoy the

privilege of working in these gar-

706

My garden spade can heal. A
woodland walk.

A quest of river-grapesI a
mocking thrush.

A wild rose or rock-loving
columbine,

Salve my worst wounds.

—Emerson..

 

 t s 5'
, ,

Courtesy Jamaica Plain‘High School

OS’I‘ON, which has
B ever been a
pioneer in edu—
cation, may well claim credit for leadership in the
school garden movement in America. It was in
our city, which founded the first public school in
America (The Boston Latin School), the first
high school (English High School), the first
girls’ high school and the first commercial course,
that the first school garden in America was
fostered.

In 1890 the Massachusetts Horticultural Society
took the initial step toward introducing gardening
into the school program by sending Henry Lin—
coln Clapp, Master of the George Putnam School,
to Europe for a survey of school gardens then
operating on the Continent. On his return he
organized and conducted a garden upon the
grounds of his Roxbury school. His early efforts
became a model for other schools to follow.

As the pioneer work of Mr. Clapp received ap-
preciation in Boston, other public-spirited groups
took up the task of making this educational and
avocational opportunity available to greater num»
bers of young men and young women. The Twen-
tieth Century Club, the Ruggles Street Neighbor~
hood House, the South End Industrial School and
the W omen’s Municipal League made possible a
fine start in children’s gardening. The Boston
School Committee gave its first financial contri—

 

The Development of School Gardening in Boston

By FREDERICK R. SULLIVAN, A.B., M.B.A. '
Chairman, Boston School Committee. l936-l937

bution to gardening
when, in 1901, it ap;
propriated money for
a large garden at the Boston Normal School.

The' school garden movement stands as a me—
morial to city planning, for in the early nineties
some old tenements were razed to furnish the
necessary land for the gardens conducted by
school children near the Hancock School in the
Old North End, then one of the most congested
sections of the city.

Of great value in the early success-of school
gardens was the enthusiastic espousal and support
of the cause by the Massachusetts Horticultural
Society. From the very start, donations of plants
and seeds to the children, encouragement of per-
fection in culture through the offering of awards,
and annual exhibitions provided stimulation to
these gardening efforts.

The World War and the sharply rising cost of
food gave great impetus to the school gardening
movement. The boys and girls of Boston re-
sponded patriotically to the call for production,
and in one year during the crisis 10,000 home gar-
dens were supervised by our teachers and 5,000
young workers conducted gardens on vacant lots,
school lawns and even on historic Boston Com-
mon. In that period the School Committee and
the Park Department cooperated to conduct what
is probably the largest school garden project ever

707

708 THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCHOOL GARDENING IN BOSTON

established in this country. Twenty-six acres of
our Franklin Park were plowed and staked off
into individual gardens. Pupils from sixteen
schools in the neighborhood successfully grew
crops, and 3,500 young people participated in the
work. During the first year Thomas P. Dooley,
now head of the Agricultural Department of the
Jamaica Plain High School, and John L. Mayer,
sub-master of the Dearborn SchOol, were in
charge.

As a result of the valuable lessons derived from _

the war gardens enterprise, the Boston School
Committee established a permanent staff to super—
vise this activity. Previous to 1917 we had car—
ried along the program under the supervision of
the individual school masters, and until 1918 gar-
dening activities were coordinated by a temporary
director. In that year Daniel W. O’Brien was ap-
pointed permanent Assistant Director of the De-
partment of Manual Arts in charge of school
gardening.

'The Present Garden Program

The Boston school gardening program is now
conducted under the supervision of a permanent
staff of employees and maintained by an annual
appropriation of the School Committee. In addi-
tion, credit and thanks must be given to the agen—
cies and Associations outside the School Depart-
ment for their great assistance in many ways.
Through their cooperation the youngsters of Bos-
ton have an opportunity to learn of living, grow-
ing things by actual contact with them.

At the present time Boston has seventeen school
garden plots in which hundreds of children work
and study. Some of these garden plots are worthy
of special note. In the Mattapan section of Bos-
ton an institution known as the Prendergast Pre—
ventorium, which is supported by private charities
and by the proceeds of the sale of Christmas seals
under the direction of the Boston Tuberculosis
Association, offers a splendid chance for bene-
ficial work in gardens. This health protection
camp, devoted to assisting undernourished and po-
tentially tubercular children is, in a sense, a part
of our Boston School system, since it is included
in one of the Boston School districts and Boston
teachers are assigned to give instruction to those
children confined there. Here a school garden
plot offers opportunity to develop the health and
strength of children threatened by dread disease.

The Norfolk House of Roxbury has for many
years been actively cooperating with the Boston

Public Schools in the management of two gardens
within the neighborhood served by this institu-
tion. Such an arrangement is Very helpful to us,
for we can rely upon experienced workers in
social service to make contacts with the children
within the section who are most interested and
most- likely to benefit from the work and play of
the school garden.

Still another phase of our program is the gar-
dening and recreation project in which our School
Department cooperates with the Women’s Mu-
nicipal League and the Park Commission in fur-
nishing out-of—door Opportunities to the children
of the North, South and West End sections of
the city. In the heart of a fine market garden dis-
trict in the city of Woburn, Boston owns a large
farm. Once the estate of Mrs. Mary Cummings,
it was devised by her to be used as a pleasure
ground for the people of Boston. Our public
schools have cooperated in the proper utilization
of this land by furnishing instructors, seeds and
equipment for four hundred children who are
transported to the estate by busses on three days
of each week during the summer. As supervisor
of this project, Mr. Dennis M. Crowley of the
Jamaica Plain High School has deveIOped an
elaborate program that includes games, nature
Walks and a productive program of gathering
profit from the children’s work.

The Women’s Municipal League has, with our
cooperation, furnished the opportunity to children
of our crowded districts to be away from the heat
of the city and out in the green fields. A graduate
student at Harvard, Dr. Oswald Tippo, now in-
structor of Botany at the University of Illinois,
has directed the nature training of these young-
sters, and few children have ever known such an
enthusiastic and inspiring helper in the nature
search. All products harvested in the gardens are
taken home by the children who grew them.
While the amount of vegetables grown by any one
youngster is necessarily small, yet it is conceivable
that on some of Boston’s dinner tables they are a
worthwhile addition to.the meal.

As an example of the value of the help received
from the ‘Women’s Municipal League it is inter-
esting to know that in 1937 this body supplied
children’s lunches for 5,040 days of pupil at-
tendance.

Home Gardening

From the war gardening days has come,a valu-
able contribution to my present gardening pro-

 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCHOOL GARDENING IN BOSTON 709

gram in the realization of the importance of the
school plot in stimulating the improvement of
home gardens. Supervision of home gardening for
school children has been a practice through the
years, and at the present time there are over six

thousand children carrying on this profitable and,

healthful activity each summer. Many a back
yard which has been an eyesore has been con-
verted into a beautiful spot, and many an at-
tractively landscaped home in Boston is the direct
result of early inspiration gained in the school
gardens of our city. That this love for horticul-
tural attraction is actively showing itself in Bos-
ton was proved last March when 5,000 Boston
children paid twenty-

five cents each to

materials, the ‘School Garden Department supplies
to science teachers in our various districts potted
plants and other materials for class study. These
plants are grown in our greenhouse, and during
the past year over 3,000 pans of tulips, hyacinths,
and narcissi were used in science and art classes
in the Boston Public Schools. This service to the
teachers of science and art is in addition to the
use which they make of the plants growing upon
the school plot. \‘v'herever it is feasible to do so,
our department establishes the school garden upon
the school grounds so that teachers may utilize
garden plants in their class work.

Garden clubs in the school furnish an outlet for

our youngsters who
like to carry on their

visit and admire the
‘spring flower show
of the Massachusetts
Horticultural Society
at Mechanics Build-
ing.

During the spring

A gardener at the Woburn Garden on the Cum-
mings Estate at WoburnI to which the children. in
groups of a hundred. are transported in busses
through the cooperation of the Women's Municipal
League which is playing an important part in the
development of the garden program. The League
is also supplying milk and crackers to supplement
lunches brought by the children from their homes.

gardening, as all good
horticulturists do,
even outside the of-
ficial season. Regular
subject teachers find
that the club helps to
motivate pupils in

of 1937, former

Mayor Frederick W..
Mansfield initiated a
campaign designed to
awaken in the citizens
of Boston a desire to
clean the city streets and
to beautifylawns as part
of the project. His cam-
paign was well received
by the children in the
schools, who reported,
as a result, the clean-
ing of 60,000 yards, the
planting of 7,000 shrubs
and 4,000 trees, the
grassing of 11,500
lawns, the creation of
50,000 gardens and the
pruning of 16,000 trees

and shrubs.

Living Materials for
Class Study

To keep alive appre-
ciation for the wonders
of nature during the in-
active months and to
help in the teaching of
biology through living

 

courtesy Women's Municipal League

their class work and
has a stimulating effect
upon success in their
studies.

In some of our
schools annual local ex-
hibitions and flower
shows ,are held. Miss
Mary Shea, a teacher
who is intensely inter—
ested in horticulture,
guides the children of
the Longfellow School,
Roslindale, in conduct-
ing an annual flower
and vegetable show that
has become the com-
munity’s pride.

Exhibitions and
Medals

Another splendid fea-
ture of the school gar-
den program in Boston,
and one for which we
of the School Commit—
tee are grateful to the
Massachusetts Horti-
cultural Society, is the

(Continued cm page 736)

Children's Gardens as a Community Project

C00peration provided the answer to one
community's organization problems when
children's gardens were being initiated

OR AT LEAST two years at-
F tempts had been made to or—
ganize a junior garden club

in Hastings-on-Hudson, either
under the sponsorship of the Gar-
den Section of the Woman’s Club, or of the Rec—

reation Division, or jointly. The first season we-

tried to organize a club for juniors we were un—
successful because we waited until midsummer
and by that time the children were scattered and
had other interests. We also found that because
of limited leadership it was difficult to organize
garden clubs on the playground.

The present club of thirty members came into
being somewhat accidentally. Early in May 1937,
the guidance counselor of the junior high school
assigned a seventh grade classroom project as
part of the junior high school health and guid-
ance program. The children were asked to plant
some kind of garden at home, either a Window
box, flower or vegetable garden or just a pot of
flowers. The objective was to stimulate interest
in outdoor activities which might improve health
and prove an enjoyable use of leisure time. About
that time the Garden Section of the Woman’s
Club again decided to sponsor a junior club and
asked the cooperation of the school. Thechair-
man of the committee and the guidance counselor
saw the possibilities of using the project already
under way. With this classroom grOUp as a nu—
cleus the Junior Gardeners Club was organized in
June as an extra~curricular activity in the junior
high school. In order to encourage the children
and show them what can be accomplished we took
the club members to visit the beautiful gardens on
the estate of Samuel Untermeyer in Yonkers,
New York early in june.

A committee was appointed from members of
the Garden Section of the Wom—
an’s Club and the Hastings Gar—
den Club which was called the
Junior Gardeners Council. This
committee asked other members of

By MILDRED DAVEY
Guidance Director
Board of Education

Hastings-on-HudsonI N. Y.

"I feel that gardening is very
valuable to any child and that
the work is bound to be of great
help.‘I — Eleanor Roosevelt.

both clubs and interested citizens
to serve as inspectors of the chil-
dren’s gardens during the sum—
mer. One of the inspectors was a
member of the Board of Educa*
tion, whose hobby was gardening. Another was a
mother of the president of the junior club. These
inspectors worked faithfully all summer visiting
the gardens at least twice a month and keeping
records, and were especially helpful in giving sug—
gestions and advice to the young gardeners.
Awards were made in September after school
opened on the basis of the respective ratings. En-
tries included window boxes, large fiower and
vegetable gardens, front door gardens and potted
plants. Children from all sections of the village
shared in the experience. Prizes and ribbons were
awarded to about fifteen of the contestants, not all
of whom were club members.

The Recreation Division obtained the services
of the nature specialist of the Westchester County
Recreation Commission to meet club members sev-
eral times during the summer in order to keep in-
terest from lagging. Such activities as the making
of leaf spatter prints were conducted on the play-
grounds. Hikes to nearby woods for wild flower
study were arranged.

Announcement of the club and the type of ac-
tivities it would sponsor appeared in the junior-
senior high school students’ handbook in Septem-
ber 1937. This made the children aware of the
fact that their club was sponsored by the general
organization of the high school and was recog-
nized as a regular school activity. When the first
club meeting was called we were amazed to find
that about thirty of the children wanted to con-
tinue as a club group. The fall activities were
planned to include an all day trip in the school bus
to the Bedford nature trails in
October. The day was spent ex-
ploring the nature trails in the
‘Poun'dridge Reservation in north-

(Continued on page 738)

In

Garden Clubs as an Educational Factor

North Carolina Public Schools

By JUANITA MCDOUGALD MELCHIOR

HOUGH leaders in voca—
Ttional education and

agricultural extension
work had promoted garden—
ing for certain age groups
in rural North Carolina, it
was only when unemploy-
ment and starvation began
to show their menacing
faces in the late twenties

"I should wish all my children to be
sensitive to all those aspects of earth
and sky that can move the soul with
loveliness and sublimity. . . . Certainly
I should like them to be at home with

; to love not

Nature's infinite variety
merely her verdure and blossoming
but her mystic mists and yellow de-
cay. . . . I think I should have a course
in Nature running pleasantly through
my children's years."—Will Durant.

Gardening Enters the
School Curriculum

Among others who re-
sponded was the State Fed—
eration of. Garden Clubs:
This organization requested
a state-wide- school cam-
paign for the beautification
of homes and schools along
highways, and incidentally

that school and home gar-
dens received their real im—
petus. It was then that the
Governor of North Carolina initiated a Live-at-
Home program through the cooperation of vari-
ous state agencies. A special bulletin for schools
was issued by the State Department of Public In—
struction emphasizing the edUCational procedures
and cultural values as well as the practical bene—
fits to be realized from the maintenance of gar-
dens yielding the year round.

This subject proved to be a vital instructional
device in that it afforded a natural life experience
as an outlet for human urge to do real things-#to
be curious about growing plants, insects and ani-
mals, to plan and to experience the satisfaction of
concrete achievement as the reward of effort.

The effort made during the depression to meet
as far as possible the needs of growing boys and
girls at the various levels of the eleven year period
emerged into a concerted move toward revamping
the public school curriculum under the leadership
of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
the late Arch T. Allen. Laymen
and lay organizations were in—

 

the organization of the jun—
ior garden club which would
reach all ages and groups
among school children. This request was favor-
ably received and it was the writer’s happy privi-
lege to represent the department in promoting this
object, being more particularly responsible at that
time for the fields of science in the elementary
schools, and health, physical education, art and
citizenship, including geography, for the eleven
year program.

In the record of experimental curriculum ex—
periences contributed through teachers’ reports
gathered from all over the state, gardening was
listed as a satisfactory educational activity and
was therefore included in the final bulletin report
for continued use as an activity. A bulletin on
how to organize and promote junior garden work
was prepared. Each adult garden club was re-
quested to appoint a member as a junior garden
club sponsor to work with the teachers in the
local school. More reCently an additional source
of cooperation came with the appointment of a

state junior club sponsor.
Plans were inaugurated for the

vited to make suggestions about
the kind of education they
wanted for their children and
for the North Carolina of the
future.

Mrs. MelchiorI formerly Associate,
Division - of Instructional Service.
North Carolina State Department
of Public InstructionI is a member
of the Advisory Board of the
Junior Garden Clubs of America.

state—wide contest on school and
roadside beautification to be
held under the joint auspices of
the State Federation which fur—
nished awards and judges, the

711

712 GARDEN CLUBS AS AN EDUCATIONAL FACTOR

 

Courtesy Miss Louise Busbee, Raleigh, No. Car.

State Department of Public Instruction which
drew up rules and regulations, the score card and
helpful aids, and the Commission of Highways
and Prisons which contributed the cost of print-
ing and distribution. Scoring emphasized the de-
gree of improvement in individual cases instead of
comparative results among groups and individuals.

Use of Community Resources in
Garden Education

Guidance in gardening should be of two kinds
at least—wthat based on practical experience and
technical knowledge, and that based on a knowl-
edge of educational and scientific principles. This
is a rare combination and it was not surprising to
find teachers more often than not deficient in
both. Fortunately our teachers were equipped
with initiative and resourcefulness. They used
farm agents, nearby florists and local garden club
members. An effort was made to modify in-ser—
vice teaching training in nature study and science,
using the local environment as a laboratory, the
work to take on the aspects of excursion, obser—
vation and experimentation.

A “drop in the bucket” was added when the
State Federation devoted a session of its annual

spring garden institute to the junior gardener.
Ellen Eddy Shaw, Director of Elementary Educa-

tion of the Brooklyn Botanic Gardens, in her in-
spiring and original manner, demonstrated with
the juniors some basic gardening principles. For
the most part the juniors present financed their
own way, including transportation, board and
registration fee.

Some Ways of Promoting Junior Garden Work

The public must be led to recognize and under-
stand the educational and social values of junior
gardening. Gardening is one of the happy solu-
tions to the educator’s need, for it is a human
activity with practically universal appeal. Pro-
perly pursued, it makes contributions to all of the
accepted cardinal aims of education through the
soundest procedure—the integrating factor of
purposeful working together, talking together,
reading together and playing together. It inter-
ests children in their environment; it offers an ex-
perimental background for geography and science
reading and it affords a genuine bond between
home and school, a link between the present and
the future, real carry-over values for leisure
hours.

A few illustrations will demonstrate these
values. Note the growth of civic consciousness in
these excerpts from children as found in their
comments, letters* and diaries,‘j‘ or case studies.

“Our boys feed the birds now instead of killing
them. Our garden beautifies the school grounds.”
—From a Junior High School.

“The junior garden club helps us to see the
beauties of nature and enjoy them.”—From a
Junior H igh School.

“The PTA helps us and everybody seems proud
of our junior garden club.”

Or the planning and working to share shown
in these: '

“When our coleus slips have fine long roots we
shall plant them in soil. We shall cut more slips.
Each one of us hopes to give a fine little plant to
our mother.”—From a third grade.

“On December first we carried home our coleus
plants to our mothers. My mother liked hers. She
said, ‘I shall plant it in my porch box.’ ”—-From a
second grader.

A group of second graders made a collection of
pictures and specimens which they put into a
book for permanent use as a reference. This re—
sulted in their learning to identify, read and spell

 

* The Fletcher Junior Garden Club, Mrs. D. D. Norton, Teacher
Sponsor.

'l'The Lilesville Junior Garden Club, Mrs. Ben Wall, Teacher
Sponsor.

GARDEN CLUBS AS AN EDUCATIONAL FACTOR 713

the names Of a large number of the flowers com- Or the opportunityfor meeting individual dif-
mon to the neighborhood as well as many not ferences revealed in these concrete instances of
known there- satisfactions found in gardening:

A group in the mountains gathered the rarer “Charles and Dewey made tWO long boxes for
flowers such as hepatica and lady’s slipper and 0111' tomato seedS-”—Fr0m the January account 0f
made a wild flower garden. the garden plans.

A new school building located in a narrow _ “We have just ”ni5h6d a WOOd Chart with Sixty
mountain valley had rested under the shade of an dIHerent kirde 0f WOOd found in our Community-H
overhanging mountainside, the bare clay walls of . “our entire Community is intereSted and Will"
which had been left as a result of excavation pre- mg to halp our Club'” _
liininary to its construction. Under the leader- A boy 0f tWElve’ at_ the Slxth year level! dc"
ship of the principal and teachers, each classroom .VelOped a bOOk 0f deSIg”S on whiCh he Worked
selected a section for beautification that finally Independemly for the ehtlre duratlon 0f the sum"
evolved into an interesting rock garden. Children mer Vacatlofl‘ Frfonn fl 13901? Of Irregular drangS
Voluntarily brought stones from a nearby creek, of homes. With an indiscriminate planting, the book
dug rhododendron and laUrel for resetting, and evolved into a series of scaled drawmgs, neatly
contributed Shrubs, bulbs, and seeds from home done, carefully selected, and labeled with the bo-
gardens. tanical as well as common name of a wide variety

. . . . of shrubs.
Or the growmg appreCiations, broadening con-

cepts and definite information expressed in these:

“ Lessons Learned
Charles and Dewey went to the woods for

some rich black soil. We shall plant our tomato one EeaCherf in evaluating the results of her
seeds soon. This soil will not give our plants the Work Wlth the Jumor garden C1111), made the fol-
wilt. \Vilt is a disease that kills tomato vines.” lowmg Summary 3

Increased interest in the work of Luther
Burbank and in creative work in gardening.

Appreciation of happiness through varied
associations.

“Today we learned the geranium, fern, sultana,
begonia, and cactus. All are growing in our in-
door garden. We took off the top soil and added
rich new soil.”

 

'. . *Miss Helen McLa hl' , T h S l' ' -
Moreover gardening furnishes numerous and den Club, "3 m m H ponsm' cmt‘m Junm Gar

diverse real life situations for using educational
tools and skills, for thinking and planning that is
centered about genuine problems:

“The plants seemed to need food, so we re-
moved the soil and added fresh wood mold.”

“Today we wrote for our garden books. The
best letter was mailed.”

“\Ve have read the books the children bought
with their tomato money last spring.”

“\Ve will exchange shrubs and test seeds.”

“Sometimes I crave another life to prolong the
learning I’ve only begun.”——From a teacher.

"The blue hyacinths that Richard Dawkins
brought last fall have three lovely blossoms now.”
—-From a third grader.

Witness these uses of the available resources to
satisfy the awakening sensitiveness to beauty:

“We had no money to bUy our flower pots.
“7 alter found many little milk cans. He and Wil-
liam made nail holes in the bottom. Then each one
of us painted a can green. Three dozen tiny cans
looked neat and pretty on our window sill.”—-—-

From a third grader. Courtesy Miss Louise Busbee, Raleigh, No. Car.

 

714 GARDEN CLUBS AS AN EDUCATIONAL FACTOR

Realization that library facilities as a source of
practical information on gardening are invaluable.

Enjoyment of the new accomplishment and an
increased interest in the fact that they were citi-
zens of Clinton and that there was need for them
to care for their gardens at home and at school.

More notice of designs in girls’ dresses and
wall paper.

More comments on roadside beauty and other

beauty commonplaces.

Better standards of what constitutes tastes,
harmony, beauty in texture, form, color and
adaptation.

Increasing interest in the dictionary.

Certain information became a part of the pupils’
fund of knowledge through their gardening ex-
periences. They learned primary and binary colors
and a number of pictures such as Millet’s “Glean-
ers,” “The Angelus,” “The Sower,” and the
“Song of the Lark”; Corot’s “Spring” and Hitch—
cock’s “Flower Girl in Holland.” They became
more adept in expressing their thoughts, in writ-
ing more rapidly and legibly, in pronouncing and
spelling names of common flowers, and such
words as petals, sepals, stamens, corolla, and
humus. They discovered there were many ways or
styles to have a garden and that plant growth was
due to germination which depended upon mois—
ture, temperature, good soil and cultivation. Fur-
ther, the pupils became familiar with the follow-
ing rules of planting: to handle plants carefully
to avoid injury; to transplant them as quickly as
possible and in the evening or before a rain; to
place plants lirme so that roots may take a se-
cure hold; to shade them to prevent withering,

and to use enough water and to cover with dry
soil.

Through the gardening program the children
were aided in their deve10pment of skills in cer—
tain curricular subjects. They developed a nat—
ural background in arithmetic through measuring
and drawing the garden plot, in finding the cost
of lumber and fertilizer, in budgeting garden ex-
penses, in keeping daily records of expenses and
incomes of garden, in recording the time seeds
were planted and harvested, in measuring the
height of the various plants in the garden, and in
buying paint, brushes, seeds, vases and watering
pots. There was freer participation in language

activities resulting in better oral and written re-
ports, invitations, poetry interpretation, conver-
sation, with better and wider choice of words and
clearer pronunciation.

The children came to recognize such musical
compositions as Nevin’s “Narcissus,” MacDow—
ell’s “To a Wild Rose,” and Mendelssohn’s
“Spring Song,” and they gained greater ability
in selecting and singing appropriate and melodious
songs. ‘

And finally, as a result of working together, the
pupils learned many gracious ways of living hap—
pily with one another without friction.

Teachers and Educators Must Help

It is of fundamental importance that those im-
mediately concerned with the educational program
should interpret properly gardening activities.
There should be a new. point of view entertained
by parent and teacher alike in the recognition of
these values and the necessity for a school schedule
or daily schedule which allows time for the ac-
tivity, space in which to carry it out, and materials
and equipment with which to work. The Ellerbe
and Lilesville clubs planted seeds which they sold,
using the proceeds to buy a radio and books. This
is an educative experience which constitutes a
part of America’s social insurance for tomorrow.

The subject of gardening in its full scope should
be enthusiastically and intelligently presented to
the school personnel in their professional meet-
ings so that educational implications will be un—
derstood. Club women must be willing to con-
tribute of their own influence, time and effort to
establish a program that will have a far—reaching
effect on the fibre of the nation.

“Lucky are those pe0ple, young or old, who
know how much beauty and spiritual awareness
can be gathered unto their souls from the great
outdoors. To know how amazing are all other
forms of life is to know more implicitly the di-
vinity of the whole; to know 'more completely
what to bring to our own lives. And fortunate
indeed are those who have been guided in youth
toward this appreciation. Today, just as truly as
in the mellow reflections of Omar Khayyam, long
ago, mankind has been granted a spiritual heri—
tage—a strange deep beauty and peace—a near-
ness to God—~out under ‘that inverted bowl we

call the sky.’ ” f. Otis Swift in The National
Parent—Teacher Magazine.

-- —-—~

The Garden Center lnstitute of Buffalo

1' HAT PLANTS can I use to retain a steep
bank where the soil erodes badly ?” “My
garden soil has a greenish surface. What

causes this? Is it harmful to my plants? _What

treatment will prevent it ?” “Is it possible to grow
both flowers and vegetables in a plot fifty by
eighty feet so that my lawn will be an inviting
spot in the summer and produce, at the same time,
enough vegetables for the table and cut flowers
for the house P” These are typical of the ques-
tions brought to the garden center daily by ama-
teur gardeners who find a few hours of gardening

a healthful and enjoyable hobby. By answering

them quickly and accurately the Garden Center

Institute of Buffalo helps thousands of persons

each year to spend pleasant hours in gardening, a

recreation satisfying in itself and equally valuable

in deveIOping useful and attractive surroundings
for the home.

Organized three years ago and incorporated
under the Regents of the University of the State
of New York as an educational institute to en-
courage the art of gardening and related subjects,
the garden center has made for itself a definite
place in the life of gardeners of this vicinity, and
one which would be hard indeed to replace.

Services Offered

Our garden center works with the sixty garden
clubs of the Eighth Judicial District of New York
State, helping to plan programs and to correlate
their activities. In return for these services, local
garden club members assist with flower shows and
serve on other committees necessary to carry out
the varied projects of the Institute. Garden cen-
ter services, however, are in no way limited either
to the garden club member or to members of the
Garden Center Institute. Located in the club
house of a city park, the doors of the center are

open at any time to all flower lovers. In fact, it .

is, in all probability, the possessor of the little
garden or the non-garden club member who has
but limited sources of information available who
is most greatly benefited by the garden center. It
is here he obtains the knowledge needed for his
every day gardening activity; it is here he finds
the information necessary for a general under-
standing of botany, horticulture, conservation and

"Organized to serve as a clearing house'
for garden information, to coordinate the
activities of conservation, gardening and
horticultural groups, and to provide all
gardeners with a source of information
reliable and easily obtained, the Garden
Center Institute of Buffalo is to the

amateur gardener what the l-lorticul-
tural School is to the professional."

By MARJORIE WELLINGTON

Director

nature study. The layman knows that at the gar-
den center his questions are answered immediately
and without charge. He knows, too, that only the
most up-to-date and reliable information is pro-
vided to solve his problems.

Garden center services are based to a great ex-
tent on surveys of local conditions. Its work is
guided largely by the questions poured into its of-
fice by amateur and beginning gardeners. We find
that the majority of questions come from 'per-
sons having only a small garden plot, the average
city lot. These gardeners are unfamiliar with gar-
dening technique. The inevitable need to cope
With special problems, such as improving poor
soils, planting in sites with undesirable exposures
and disguising unsightly views, are confusing
and weighty problems. It is this gardener, pri-
marily, whom the garden center seeks to help. A
call upon the Institute supplies him with practical
suggestions for garden design and with planting
programs which will show him how best to utilize
the available space in obtaining the greatest
amount of beauty and pleasure therefrom. Thus
the center helps the home owner to create a suc-
cessful and attractive lawn, one which results,
finally, not only in increasing the real estate value
of the immediate house but also in developing the
attractiveness of the entire neighborhood. Through
the center costly mistakes due to poorly chosen
materials or frequent and expensive changes are
avoided, for rather than working at random the
home owner starts with a concrete knowledge of

71$.

716 THE GARDEN CENTER INSTITUTE OF BUFFALO

what he wishes and, moreover, he knows in detail
how best to achieve that end.

As the work of the Garden Center Institute has
become better known through weekly newspaper
articles and radio talks, flower shows, lectures and
classes and through specialized services, there has
been a noticeable increase in the numbers of gar-
deners taking advantage of the help and informa-
tion provided. It is, of course, the gardener who

avails himself of this knowledge, who applies it.

and finds the results good, who does most toward
spreading enthusiasm for gardening as a worth-
while movementand for the garden center as a
dependable aid and source of inspiration. It is his
success and zeal which makes his neighbor con-
scious of the opportunities at hand and brings him,
too, to the garden center. As may be expected,
this growing garden consciousness leads to more
and more calls upon the garden center, not only
for services already established but also in many
cases for additional and wider reaching activities.
This demand, in turn, is met by the garden center.
Thus is born a new service! Through it the gar-
dener himself increases the scope of the center’s
work, and through the programs of the institute
his interest and activity are further stimulated.

Two interesting services inaugurated a year ago
to fill an apparent need have proved particularly
helpful to beginning gardeners. The first is a
landscaping consultation service through which
amateur gardeners may have the benefit of the
advice of a trained landscape architect. The sec-
ond is a garden maintenance service through
which any gardener may have his plant ills diag-
nosed by an experienced dirt gardener. Both of
these features are conducted by persons interested
in the work of the center. Their time is given to
the Institute except for a small fee to cover ex-
penses incurred in garden visiting.

Dirt Gardening

Each spring andfall since its organization. the
garden center has held a class
in gardening designed to give

of the McKinley Vocational School and the Board
of Education of the City of Buffalo, the center
has extended the study to include actual practice
and experience in dirt gardening as well.

The cooperation of the McKinley’ Vocational
School is helping greatly to enrich the program of
the center. The School has a department of hor-
ticulture which trains boys of high school age in
the fundamentals of horticulture so they are
equipped to become professional gardeners. Five
types of gardens have been designed on the school
grounds, and two greenhouses form an important
part of the department’s equipment. The director
of the McKinley Vocational School Horticultural
Department conducts the garden center’s practical
gardening class. Amateur gardeners enrolled for
the class attend lectures, observe demonstrations
of common cultural practices, and do their own
dirt gardening at the school under the watchful
guidance and individual attention given by the in-
structor. It is a thorough and intensive study
program. Its value to the door-yard gardener is
shown by the enthusiasm of each student. As this
issue goes to press, the spring class, with a regis-
tration of nearly four times the number expected,

. is getting under way for a ten weeks’ period.

A Test Garden

Another activity started last year by the garden
center, again in conjunction with the McKinley
Vocational School, is a test garden. Under the
supervision of a committee composed of landscape
architects, horticulturists and civic-minded flower
lovers, many new plant materials are grown here.
The value of the test garden for the small gar-
dener lies in the opportunity it gives him to see
each year recent plant introductions grown under
local conditions. The interest shown in this proj-
ect proves how deeply it is appreciated, especially
by the gardener restricted in his plant selections
by a small budget, for he cannot afford 'to grow
any but the flowers which most appeal to him, and
even these must be chosen care-
fully if he is to be assured of

the amateur information needed
for everyday dirt gardening.
From the start this class has
been one of the most popular
and valuable courses conducted
at the Institute. Originally the
instruction was provided
through lectures alone. Now,
however, with the cooperation

"A garden is indeed the purest of
human pleasures. It is the great-
est refreshment to the spirits of
manI without which buildings and
palaces are but gross handiworks;
and a man shall ever see that when
ages grow to civility and eleganceI
men come to build stately sooner
than to garden finely. as if garden-
ing were the greater perfection."
—Ftancis Bacon.

fine performance throughout the
garden. This spring many gar-
deners are-taking advantage of
the knowledge gained last year
by observation of the test gar-
den. They may now order the
newer plants with a reasonable
idea of what to expect from
each purchase. Moreover, the

THE GARDEN CENTER INSTITUTE OF BUFFALO 717

test garden records are
available, and by consult-
ing them amateurs know
exactly what procedure
to follow in raising rare
plant materials.

Somewhat along this
same line is a plan we
have for the future. It
is our hope to have
eventually a series of
demonstration gardens.
This will show the home
owner the exact possi-
bilities found in develop-
ing even the smallest of
garden plots. We hope
to have on hand, too,
timely and detailed in-
structions to recommend
week by week the care
needed for each bit of

 

Courtesy of Parks and Recreation

Viewing the rose garden of Roger

Williams Park. Providence. R. I.

ground. When it becomes possible to complete
this plan, another project invaluable to the aver-
age door-yard gardener will be added to the gar-
den center’s contributions to the- little garden
movement.

Up-to-the-Minute Information!

Of great importance to the home owner is the
fact that the"Institute brings him knowledge of
new varieties and types of plant materials, new
methods of culture and results of experiments in
horticultural practices. This up-to-the—minute ex-
change of news is possible because of the close
contacts maintained by the garden center with the
Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Hor-
ticulture at Cornell University, with other horti-
cultural groups and with gardening organizations
throughout the nation. With the cooperation of
these agencies the center has an excellent library
of books, magazines, pamphlets and clipped ma-
terial, all valuable sources of information in an-
swering the questions of gardeners seeking help
at the garden center. Formerly such information
was difficult for the amateur gardener to obtain——
and then only after much delay, laborious cor-
respondence and research. Now, at the garden
center, even the most inexperienced of gardeners
can keep in touch with the horticultural world.
He has immediately available up-to-date and ac-
curate information, whether it be for a garden
club paper or for his own gardening duties.

To supplement this library, we are particularly
fortunate in having the interest of local amateur
and trained gardeners, the cooperation of mem-
bers of the staff at Cornell University and the
assistance of experiment stations, horticultural or-
ganizations and of horticulturists throughout the
country. This help is invaluable in solving those
problems requiring knowledge and' materials at
present beyond the resources of the Institute. As
an additional aid, many of the horticulturists
whose names are familiar to all gardeners are pre-
sented on garden center programs so that the gar-
dening public has an opportunity to hear them in
person. During the past year, in 'addition to the
regular classes in nature study and gardening, the
garden center held sixteen horticultural lectures.
Each speaker was a well-known authority. Both
the advanced gardener and the novice had the
rare opportunity of hearing such experts as
Arthur M. Pillsbury, famed for his experiments
in growing plants without soil and in producing
X-ray motion pictures of plant cells and tissues
at work ;' Dr. William Crocker of the Boyce
Thompson Institute of Plant Research, who gave
gardeners of this vicinity their first chance to hear
of and see pictures of experiments in the use of

( C ontinugd on page 739)

School Gardens

ina

Small Community

N THE VILLAGES of Nashwauk and Keewatin,
I Minnesota, there are garden plots varying from
one-half of a block to nearly two blocks in size,
each garden being enclOsed with a fence. The soil
in the gardens has beenrca’refully prepared and has
been rebuilt from time to, time by adding soil and

fertilizers of different types. In each of the gar- 4

dens is a sign stating that within, the ‘enclosure
there are public school gardens. Each has a bird
house erected by the Boy Scouts. Water is made
available at different points in each of the gardens.
Under a WPA project two years ago drainage for
the garden at Nashwauk was provided to carry off
spring water following the melting of snow or a
severe downpour.

These gardens have been in operation for a
number of years, and during the late spring and
summer they present so attractive an appearance
that people driving along the highway have
stopped to comment on them.

Regulations in Force

The general regulations covering the garden
project are as follows:

Any school boy or girl over ten years of age on
June Ist in grades 4 to 12 inclusive may enroll by
agreeing to the following rules: .

I. If the enrollment is so large that gardens
cannot be assigned to everyone, the number will
be reduced by limiting the number as follows :

a. Not more than two from the same family

will be assigned gardens.

1). Pupils who have had gardens four years or

more will not be assigned a garden.

6. Pupils who are enrolled below the fifth grade

will not be assigned a garden.

2. Those who have not completed satisfactory
work or who have shown lack of interest or vio—
lated garden rules during other years in the club
cannot be assigned gardens this year. Your gar-

718

d

L. emit.

V

 

By J. E. LUNN
Superintendent
Independent School District No. 9
Itasca County. Minnesota

den work is not completed until you have written
your garden record and story. (See rule 7.)

3. Gardens will be forfeited if gardeners have
three consecutive unexcused absences or violated
club rules.  See rules 4 and 6.)

4. N 0 one will be allowed in the gardens at any
time outside of class hours except in urgent cases
and with the consent of the instructor.

5. Gardeners must enter and leave the gardens
through the gate. Climbing the fence will not be
tolerated.

6. No one is to pick or to take anything from
another garden without the owner’s consent and
the permission of the instructor. Learn to re-
spect the property of others.

7. During the summer gardeners are to keep an
accurate record of the amount of work done on
their gardens, the amount of and value of all vege-
tables gown. Using this summer’s records each
gardener shall write a sunimary and a story of his
garden work on the regular state record sheet of

the 4-H Garden Club before October I 5th. This
is a requirement of the state organization.

8. Each gardener shall exhibit vegetables at the
county fair or the local exhibit.

9. There will be three sizes of gardens, as
follows:

a. Large gardens for advanced gardeners—
32’ by 15’; b. medium-sized gardens for inter-
mediate gardeners—24’ by 15’; c. small gardens
for inexperienced gardeners—18’ by 15’. Some of
the best advanced gardeners are given extra plots

(Continued on page 739)

The School Garden Association of America

WENTY—EIGHT years ago the
School Garden Association of

America was founded for
the purpose of leading
people to the realization
that to be educated their
children must have direct
contact with M o t h e r
Earth. The enrichment
which has been added to
the education of chil—
dren in communities
where opportunities for
gardening exist reveals
the value of the addition
of this experience to the
curriculum of any school
in our country. '
Community agencies
have frequently fostered
an extensive gardening

By PAUL H. JONES
President

"A school garden is an outdoor plot on school
grounds equipped for the cultivation by children
of as many different kinds of plants as the space
and climate will accommodate. Every school
garden should be planned attractively to grow
annuall biennial and perennial plants including
plants grown for vegetablesl plants- for flowers
and for fruitsl as well as woody and herbaceous
plants. In the real school garden the child
learns at first hand not only a great variety of
natural objects' but also myriads of natural
phenomena. He learns to appreciate and en-
ioy nature. In becoming skillful in plant culti-
vation he attains health and strength. Just in
proportion to the acceptance by schools of this
natural method of education is success in social
preparation obtained."——-Van Evrie Kilpattick,
Founder and First Vice-President of the School
Garden Association of America.

unbalanced economic picture.
The generation which is reach-

ing adulthood today is
not cognizant of the
value of soil. The schools
of America can help
children to become more
thoughtful and resource-
ful citizens by providing
the wealth of experience
which gardening educa-
tion presents. A well-
planned course assists pu—
pils to attain worthy
home membership,
worthy use of leisure, and
a real appreciation of nat-
ural resources while they
produce healthful foods
and gain healthful exer-
cise.

campaign to help produce the food needed in time
of war or economic depression. Then the em-
phasis was upon the inonetary value of garden
crops. When the time of great food shortage
passed, gardening as a widespread practice was
discontinued and the educational value of the ex-
perience was disregarded. The facilities for the

The officers of the School Garden Association
stand ready to assist individuals, communities, or-
ganizations and boards of education to plan a gar-
dening experience for every boy and girl in
America.

Anyone who is interested in the Association’s
purpose is eligible to membership. The member-

project deteriorated and
the children of “good
times” grew up igno—
rant that the soil was
a natural resource use-
ful in adjusting. an

Part of an exhibit of over a thousand pots of paper-
white narcissus grown by pupils of the East Mauch
Chunk. Pa.l grade schools. Karl H. Blanch. who is

associated with the schools' is chairman of the Na-
ture-Garden Clubs of the School Garden Association

ship includes people
from every walk of life.
Many are teachers and
because of the close as-
sociation with school

(Continued on page 740)

 

719

 

Courtesy Chicago Park District

"In the garden more grows
than the gardener .sows."

ECREATION DEPARTMENTS have found truth in
R this old proverb, as here and there across the
country gardening has been included among
recreation activities for children. The lessons that
boys and girls learn seem as valuable as the crops
they carry home. Appreciation of public property
and a feeling of personal responsibility for it are
mental attitudes that every community needs to
have instilled in itscitizens.

Garden programs have been developed in a
dozen different ways, but the motive behind each
one has been concern for the happiness and well-
being of boys and girls. It is possible here to re-
port only a few of the outstanding programs in
the country that suggest-methods of developing
the activity. W'hether recreation departments
have handled the program by themselves or co-
operated with schools, garden clubs or park de-
partments, it has been evident that in addition to
healthful exercise and valuable knowledge boys
and girls have found that gardening is fun.

A dozen boys in Middletown, Connecticut,
wanted some flowers. Although they said that the
lady 'didn’t mind if they took some from her
garden, the superintendent of recreation knew
otherwise and discussed the matter with the lads.
He learned that they would like to grow flowers
of their own, but they had no land and very little
knowledge of how a garden was begun. After
some thought and investigation, the recreation
superintendent found that there was a vacant lot
in town that was in disgraceful condition, and also
that the owner would be glad to have the boys use

720

the property if they would lean it up. The same
public-spirited citizen offered to donate seeds for
the undertaking. That fall the boys experienced
the real ioy of sharing with others the flowers
from their own successful gardens. Seven sea-
sons have passed; five more vacant lots have been
filled with flowers and vegetables, and during this
last summer a hundred and twenty children had
a happy time working together on their “own
property.” The rec-

reation department
has' four of the pieces
of land plowed for
the children; the
others the boys spade
by themselves. The
areas are not fenced
and there are no reg-
ular teachers to meet
the children, but the
boys and girls gar-
den and love it.

In contrast to this
program are the well-
fenced, carefully su-
pervised gardens in
the New York City
parks. The first
School Farm was
started in DeWitt
Clinton Parks in
1902. Mrs. Henry
Parsons stated this

gardening, a questionna’l
year-round recreation.
fourteen reported well-cg
tion departments said Hi
ing garden clubs and “(I
were making plans whictn

The total enrollme
gardens in Clevela

 

In order to learn what reg

I
I

I

J

l

Garden for Fun!

tion departments are doing to promote
was sent'to all the cities conducting
ut I60 cities replied. 0t these only
oped garden programs. Fifteen recrea-
yere engaged in some activities involv-
shows, while eleven others stated they
'ald result in programs in the near Future.

purposthO foster the growth of children as well
as to teach them how to grow plants. During the
thirty-five years since then the Department of
Parks has set aside areas within the parks for
children's gardens and maintained a Bureau of
School Farms to operate them as part of the pub-
lic recreation program. At the present time there
are eleven gardens, and the staff consists of a
director, four permanent attendants and several

937 at the children's
ghts. Ohio. was l202

 

six-month assistants.
The children’s
plots are formally ar-
ranged and uniform-
ly planted and the
gardens are bordered
with tiower beds and
ornamental shade
trees so that the
whole is in harmony
with the park land-
scape. Each garden
is provided with
benches, drinking
fountains, and rural
dipping wells, and
near the gate stands
a small garden house
that shelters the tools
and serves for a
headquarters office.
The courtesy of
the garden is extend-
ed to all the neigh—

 

One of the dipping wells provided by
the New York City Department of Parks

borhood schools, and at the first planting in May
kindergarten classes and other groups are as-
signed space to grow early maturing crops such
as-radishes, lettuce, beans and onion sets. How-
ever, most of the plots are given to neighborhood
children who learn from a bulletin posted in the
garden when the registration day will be and ap-
ply individually at that time. Each child is given
a tag bearing his name and his plot number with
the warning that if the tag is lost the garden will
be given to some one else.

During the summer the children may come to
the garden every day, morning and afternoon, if
they choose. The children do all the work in these
gardens, and beside caring for their own gardens
they cultivate and water the flower gardens and
the observation plots that are planted with pea-

'nuts, sweet potatoes, broom corn, fiax, wheat,

herbs, and other economic crops. Between these
periods of activity there is time to hear interest-
ing stories about plants and opportunity to learn
of garden insects and bird visitors. In these gar-
dens the children literally fxnd a new world of
living things amidst the brick and stone of the
city streets.

Following the first harvest in July the gardens
are planted again with beets, carrots, corn, swiss
chard and lettuce. These are gathered as the crops
mature, and by the first or fifteenth of October
the gardens are cleared again. The final harvest
day may be the occasion of a harvest festival or
the long awaited presentation of awards. Parents

721

722 WHERE THEY GARDEN FOR FUN!

.

and neighbors are invited to the garden to enjoy
the affair and help carry home the crop.

The boys and girls are encouraged to show
their flowers and vegetables at the New York
Herald Tribune Junior Garden Club show, and
last season the Crotona Park garden won the
much coveted Sweepstakes Prize.

Gardening is indeed popular with these young-
sters for during this last season attendance rec-
ords show that more than 200,000 visits were
made by children 8 to 14 years of age.

The city of Detroit established its Department
of Recreation in 1915 and since that time garden-
ing for children has been conducted as one of the
activities supported by an appropriation of Com—
mon Council. Ten years before, a committee of
the Twentieth Century Club had begun this work
with boys and girls and had carried it on with the
cooperation of the Board of Education.

The Detroit program is
handled through garden clubs
that are organized at schools
or community centers and
operated on a year-round basis.
The garden director meets the
children from the 4th through
the 8th grades who are inter-
ested in joining and who are
willing to fulfill the following
requirements for membership
in the club: to. make and-
take care of a garden throughout the season;
to keep a record of the garden; to complete
the project with a report and story of the
garden. After the children have their parents’ ap-
proval, the club organizes and elects its own ‘of-
ficers. Meetings are held once each week for
thirty minute periods during the school day. Fall
and winter lessons include bulb planting, indoor

gardens, and t0pics of nature study that are.

closely allied to gardens. When planting time
comes the garden club is allowed a longer period,
and during the summer the garden session is from
one and a half to four hours once or twice a
week. In 1937 there were twenty-four play-
ground gardens, all but one of which were on
school playgrounds. Other garden clubs are
formed for boys and girls who have land for a
garden at home. These children supply their
own seeds and tools and assume the full respon-
sibility for the care of the garden. The Depart-
ment of Recreation furnishes all equipment for
the playground gardens and prepares the ground.

"The greatest value of a garden to a
child is the immeasurable ioy and
satisfaction to be gained from a gar-
den that grows. Every child should
begin early in spring to plan for his
garden so that his summer may be full
of pleasurable activity and interesting
flowers."—Mildred Faby, PresidentI
Department of Science InstructionI
National Education Association.

The Garden Division of the Recreation Depart-
ment cooperates with the National 4—H Clubs, the
Extension Division of Michigan Agricultural Col-
lege and United States Department of Agriculture,
and boys and girls who complete their record
books are eligible for 4—H Achievement pins. This
program helps to maintain interest from year to
year, and in the past club members have received
recognition for completing their eighth year
program.

Picnics and parties are important features of
every season, and flower and vegetable shows have
many entries from garden club members.

At the present time the garden work is not as
extensive as the program of the 1920’s when fifty
playground gardens covered seven acres of land
and eighty-eight garden clubs were meeting regu-
larly, but despite depressions and budget cuts gar-
dening for children has been conducted in Detroit

for thirty-two seasons with-
I out a break.

Children’s gardens have
long been an outstanding proj-
ect of the Cedar Rapids Play-
ground Commission. For
twelve years the activity has
been conducted on a four
months’ basis, and fortunately
the Commission has been able
each spring to engage the same
garden director. About 2%

acres of vacant land near ten schools have been
loaned or rented at a small cost to the Commis-
sion, which pays for the plowing and harrowing
of the lots in the spring and attends to cleaning
them up in the fall. The garden director visits all
the elementary schools in the city, and children
who are interested may enroll for a garden. If
there is no playground garden near the school, the
boys and girls are encouraged to have gardens at
home wherever it is possible. Last season nearly
500 youngsters applied for playground gardens
and more than I400 undertook home gardens.

During the summer, at a regular scheduled
time once each week, the garden director visits
each playground garden and assists the children
in planting and cultivating their plots. She also
conducts simple lessons in gardening of which
each child keeps a record in a notebook along with
a diagram of his garden, the planting date, cost of
seed and the amount of produce raised. At most
of these gardens the children furnished their own
seeds and tools.

 

WHERE THEY GARDEN FOR FUN! 723

The home gardeners may attend class meetings
at the nearest playground garden for help with
their notebooks, but there is no regulation of the
type or size of gardens they may choose to have.
Each child is visited at home at least twice during
the summer by a member of the Playground Staff.

Each year in August a picnic is held for all-the
gardeners, produce from the gardens is displayed
and judged, and simple, unexpensive prices made
possible through the cooperation of the Cedar
Rapids garden club are awarded for fine gardens
and notebooks.

Two communities in Massachusetts are con—
ducting successful garden programs entirely at the
children’s homes. Several years ago the Recrea-
tion Division of the Park Department in Cam-
bridge conducted a tract garden for children, but
for the last four years a plan for back yard gar—
-dens has worked out very satisfactorily. The
League of Women Voters assumes responsibility
for publicity and materials, and the municipal de—
partment provides supervisions for“ the gardens.

Early in the spring, enrollment blanks are dis-
tributed throughout the schools of the city, and
the children who are interested return these blanks
to the recreation office. Supervisors are assigned
‘to visit the children by districts, distribute the
seeds and give cultural directions and help. Sev-

-eral visits are made during the summer, and a

record is kept of each garden for prizes are
awarded at the close of the season. The boys and
girls of Cambridge are also eligible to compete in
the garden exhibit conducted by
the Massachusetts Horticultural ’
.Society. L. i
The Junior Garden Club of ‘  - ,
Framingham during its second " v
.season had a membership of
over five hundred boys and
girls. The idea was jointly spon—
sored by the Fr’amingham Gar—
den Club and the Park Depart-
:ment—WPA recreation project,
and the organization and ad—
:ministration of the program was
handled by the Park Depart-
ment—WPA staff cooperating
with the schools. At each school
in the city the garden super-
visors explained the plans for
'their garden club and took the
‘names and addresses of children

\who seemed interested. Just

k

,‘ 

f .

Courtesy New York City Park Department

‘

before planting time the supervisors again visited
the schools, leaving seeds and plants contributed
by the adult garden club members. About the
middle of May the supervisors began a weekly
round of visits to the children’s gardens, and as
the season progressed an honor roll for the week
was published in the local paper. For some young—
sters the high point of the season was the oppor—
tunity to exhibit their flowers or vegetables at the
Framingham Garden Club’s fall flower and gar—-
den show.

In Cleveland Heights, Ohio, the Recreation De-
partment is the cooperating agency rather than the
inspiration and support of the garden program.
The director of gardens and nature study for the
Board of Education has organized the activity so
that gardening is a part of the science require-
ment for every grade beginning with the kinder—
garten and every elementary school has a garden
in which each grade has its share of plots. When
the school term ends individual children apply
for these little gardens and an instructor meets
the children at the garden two or three mornings
a week. Formerly this summer program was
handled by the school, but since budgets have been
curtailed the summer supervision has been con-
tinued by workers from the Recreation Depart-
ment. These assistants_also visit the children’s
home. gardens. When the fall term begins at
school, the director of gardens attends to closing
operations and the presentation of awards to out-

standing gardeners.
(Continued on page 740)

 

u ‘6

Have You Ever Had a Garden?

" 0 YOU ALWAYS think of work when you

D think of a garden? That is the wrong

way to start for it is not work. It is an

an interesting and enjoyable occupation as well
as a pastime. In past years I had not the oppor—
tunity for a garden large enough to offer a variety
of plants,'but finally we settled where I had every
chance of a large or a small garden and my father
set aside a piece of ground I 5’ by 40’ where I
could see it from the window of my room on the
north side of the house. On the first day in May
I spaded the ground and marked it off into seven
rows. To be sure, I was a little tired, but I was
also very pleased with my start and slept very well
that night. Saturday, my best day for shopping,
I went to town with a slip of paper on which I
had the names of my plants and after each I
marked the price. The whole garden cost me only
60 cents. I had carefully planned to have stem,
leaf, root, fruit and seed represented, for a va-
riety always offers a deeper interest. With the
seeds my friends had given me and with my pur-
chases I planted my first group. Watching, water—
ing, hoeing, until the first sign of a green sprout
appeared, brought me new anxiety. Then I plant-
ed a second group of seeds, so I had three full
rows and four which were divided in half. When
one plant had finished, as my radishes were the
first to do, I planted others. In this way I had a
very pleasant garden from the first of May until
the last of September, and every moment was one
of interest and real enjoyment which I’m sure

every garden owner knows. May your next sum— '

mer be one of pleasant garden memories and many
enjoyable hours out of doors.” Jeannette Beaver,
age 16. Portsmouth, Rhode Island.

My Garden

“I have always wanted to have a garden of. my
Own ever since Mother plant-.-
ed a large rock garden in
front of the house. When I
became a Girl Scout I found
that there was a gardener’s
badge that I could earn by
planting a garden so I de-
cided to have one. Mother
agreed that I was to have
part of the vegetable garden

724

' HEAVEN

What is Heaven? ls,it not
Just a friendly garden plot
Walled with stone and roofed with sun.
Where the days pass one by one.
Not too fast and not too slowI
Looking backward as they go
At the beauties left behind
To transport the pensive mind.
Bliss Carman.

Three Girl Scout gardeners testify to the
enjoyment their gardens have brought them

on the south side of the house. So I got to work
on it. I made it into a half and half garden, with
flowers on one side of a path that ran through the
middle of my garden and the vegetables on the
other side of it.

“In the flower garden, which was an old-fash-
ioned garden, I planted fire cross, marigold,
golden marigold, balsam, zinnias, California pop-
pies, babies’—breath, portulaca, everlastings, June
pinks, candytufts, mullen pinks, petunias, phlox
and cockscomb. It is‘a lot of fun to have flowers
of your own to pick and have on the table for a
bouquet.

“When the vegetables were ripe we had them
on the table and they tasted very nice. Home
grown vegetables right from the garden are much
nicer than from the store.” Jane Gilbert Knight,
Providence, Rhode Island. Troop 16.

My Girl Scout Garden

“After I was invested as a Girl Scout I thought
it would be fun to work for the gardener badge
during my spare time in the summer, so I went
right to work planning my garden. It consisted
of 180 square feet, being 18’ long and 10’ wide.
It was arranged in rows with about a foot and a
half of space between each row. The flowers were
in the front and the vegetables further back, with
a path between. I chose alyssum as a border
plant, followed by forget—me-nots, sweet William,
gaillardia and zinnias. Then came the vege-
tables-“carrots, Swiss chard and some tomato
plants—not which I was very proud. To sepa- .-

,rate my garden from my father’s, I planted

violet and pansy plants alternately to form a
dividing line.

“It was great fun supply-
ing the vegetables for the
family’s table and showing
all my friends my own gar—
den. I wish to thank the Girl
Scout gardener badge for
-stimulating my interest.”
Madeline Nickerson, age I 3,
Rumford, Rhode Island.

Nature Education in- New York City Schools

ROM LONG ages of experi-
F ence with nature, man de-

veloped definite reasons
for a certain
type of desira-
ble training.
These types in
turn became
ends in them-
selves. Formal
education, with
its numerous
drills, became
the dominant
side of train-
i n g, a n d f o r
many genera-
tions nature ed-
u catio n was
f orgptten or
sadly neglected.
During the past
twenty-five years or more, however, educators
everywhere have realized the necessity for return-
ing to our original contacts with nature, and the
outcome has been the introduction of nature study
in our public schools.

During recent years much attention has been
directed toward worthwhile objectives for ele—
mentary schools. Courses of study, syllabi, meth—
ods of teaching, supervision, administration and
school organization have been modified in the
light of these objectives, which have been listed
by the New York State Department as social re-
lationships, self-expression, critical thinking,
worthwhile activities, knowledge and skills, and
health. ,

Nature education offers through class clubs one
of the best and most satisfactory means of realiz-
ing these objectives. This fact has been demon-
strated in New York City where for years many
of our schools have carried on a series of graded
class clubs. These clubs, suggested in order of
their progression, are bird, nature, garden, conser-
vation and biologic. Our experience has shown
that club work, well established, provides train-
ing in respect for authority, in the recognition of
the richer experiences older people have to offer,
in cooperation and practice and in self-control,

By MARVIN M. BROOKS
Director

Nature Study and School Gardens

 

Courtesy New York City Board of Education

An attractive garden at Public School 2|5. Brooklyn

and develops creative thinking
and the ability to judge and
evaluate.

Methods Used
in New York
City

The gardens
in New York
City were de-
veloped during
the World War
in parks, home
yards, vacant
lo ts a n d o n
school grounds.
Since that time
there has been
a steady and
healthy growth
in nature edu-
cation. Each
school interest-
ed in conducting a program maintains a nature
room or a school garden on the grounds, or both.
These serve as nature laboratories programmed
for use in school hours as are other facilities such
as the auditorium and gymnasium. Here children
come during school hours because of their inter-
est and the credit they receive, and teachers seek
garden and nature material for use in other
subjects.

We have found that this inclusion of the
garden and nature room in the school program
and of gardens on the school grounds, together
with the financial backing and help of the
Board of Education, has gone far to make our
work successful. As another element in our
success, we are fortunate in having in our pro-
gram the assistance of such organizations as
the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the New York
Botanical Garden, the American Museum of
Natural History, the School Nature League,
the New York Zoological Garden, and a num-
ber of museums.

The School Garden Association of New York
maintains a number of services of vital assistance
in the development of the city’s school gardens.
An, organization of classroom teachers, super-
visors, principals and others interested in the

725

726 NATURE EDUCATION IN NEW YORK CITY SCHOOLS

study of natural sciences in the city schools, the
association was founded in 1908 by Van Evrie
Kilpatrick. It has a membership of 10,000. Two
meetings are held each year for discussions, and
in May several hundred people attend an annual
luncheon. A yearly meeting for the election of
officers and determination of policies occurs
shortly after.

The association’s Nature Garden Guide, pub-
lished monthly' during the school year, is edited

by the author, who is secretary of the associa-
tion. This eight page bulletin contains much in-
formational material, suggestions for activities,
and announcements and notices of events pertain-
ing to the field of nature. In addition to this ser-
vice the association offers pins, buttons and cer-
tificates as awards. These are often awarded at
the annual garden parties sponsored by the as-
sociation at one outstanding school garden in each
borough; others are given at school assemblies.

SURVEY OF NATURE GARDEN LABORATORIES
In Elementary Schools of New York City—I937

1937 1935 Per cent
Man. Bx. Bkl. Qns. Rich. Total Total of Increase
Total schools reporting . . . . . . . .. 135 101 234 148 43 661 534 22%

School Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30 47 82 95 22 276 264 5%

School Lawns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 65 148 133 37 395 310 28%

School Nature Room . . . . . . . . . . . 35 36 62 22 4 159 142 12%

Class Nature Room . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 48 90 69 23 330 (No Rept.) 

Class Room Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . 3,366 2,294 6,674 2,715 445 16,194 14,785 9%

Nature Exhibits . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 107 110 343 219 40 819 611 34%

Other Nature Activities . . . . . . .. 318 234 366 378 133 1,429 (No Rept.) 

Nature Trails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 2 5 10 5 33 (No Rept.) . . . .

School Gardens—cultivated during summer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 170 131 29%

Gardens in High Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1

Greenhouses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2

Five hundred schools explained other nature activities as follows: Care of plants and animals, nature collections and
use, nature clubs, nature plays, nature prOJects, nature scrapbooks, nature shows, nature study, nature visual instruction,
visits to museums, VISItS to the zoo, nature trips, parks.

In 1935 the Abraham Lincoln I-Iigh School was the only one reporting a garden. In 1937 the following high schools
maintained gardens: Abraham Lincoln, John Adams, Bayside, Erasmus Hall, Evander Childs, James Monroe, Music

and Art.

 may --- . .

ln I937 there
were‘ 82 school
gardens in Brook-
lyn. One ot these
tracts, located at
Public School I7'
is in a very con-
gested area

SCHOOL GARDEN
- R: M
We: 133-z

 

a. .‘-:_'>:‘h ’ ‘ I

Courtesy New York City Board of Education

 

The Fordson Horticultural Gardens

HREE YEARS AGO the Fordson
Board of Education became
interested in deve10ping oppor—
tunities for agricultural education
in its schools. These men enlisted the cooperation
of Mr. Henry Ford who willingly leased a tract
of land which was accessible t0'severa1 schools.
After a study of the educational approach to the
problem had been made, a project was begun by
the students of the Maples and the Woodworth
Junior High Schools and the Fordson Senior
High School. This project resulted in the de-
velopment of the Fordson Horticultural Gardens
and the addition to the school curriculum of
courses designed to give children training in gar-
dening, horticulture and related agricultural work.
The first year 190 students participated in this
program. Each one had a garden plot 40 feet by
60 feet. In these were planted lifteen different
vegetable and fruit crops. A garden house was
erected and equipped and an overhead sprinkling

system installed. The crops produced were excel- -

lent. These products, the enthusi-
asm of the children, and the un-

By PAUL H. JONES

Chairman of Horticulture

Fordson Public Schools

A close—up view of a section
in the Horticultural Gardens

animous approval of their parents,
showed how very successful this
type of directed work and instruc-
tion can be. '

During the second year attention was centered

around the type of classroom instruction required.

It was necessary to write books of instruction and
devise methods of teaching the subject matter.
The philosophy underlying the presentation of
this material is that soil and crops are natural re-
sources. The use of fresh healthful food ‘is pre-
sented as the first principle of preventive medicine.
The potential value of the soil and the necessity
for healthful foods rather than the economic
value of crop production receive primary emphasis.
Gardening could assist materially to balance the
family budget. If it were practiced throughout
our country it might go far toward stabilizing
the home. The basic principles for gardening in
America have been wrong or its popularity would
not follow the curve of the index of business con-
ditions. Gardening as recreation for the body and
the mind is as important to the in-
dividual as the food or flowers he

 

727

728 THE FORDSON HORTICULTURAL GARDENS

grows. These and
many other phases
that should help
students to appre-
ciate the import-
ance of an agri—
cultural enterprise
in a nation have
been given much
attention in this
development in
Dearborn.
Gardeningin-
struction is given
in the junior high
school to the sev-
enth grade stu-
dents. It is a cor-
relation of art,
mathematics, and
science. An at-
tempt is made on
the ‘part of the
teachers of these
subjects to in-
struct the children
in the art, mathe-
matics and science

“‘2

’F
a
"a
.3

related to and useful in gardening work. Through .

science in the classroom the student learns the
history, the culture and the nature of the plant.
He becomes acquainted with the soil, the seeds
and the plant through his art and science studies.
His mathematics assists him with garden lay out,
sowing seeds and garden accounts. To make this
a practical pre-gardening training, a classroom
table garden made to scale is planted and observed
closely.

To insure the success of this project and to
capitalize—on the educational opportunities.pre-
sented, a course in horticulture for the Fordson
Senior High School was developed. This is con-
sidered as a course in science equivalent to any
other science offered and is accredited as such
by the University of Michigan. This class prepares
all of the materials that are necessary for the hor-
ticultural gardens. Students learn to test soil, to
prepare seeds for garden use and to plant and to
force bulbs. The aim of the course is to permit
the student to observe and practice many of the
things that are done by man to provide a food
supply, to develop and to maintain a landscape,
and to propagate plants for ornamental purposes

 

The children themselves wash, bunch and pre-
pare the vegetables before taking them home

in the home. Such an eXperience makes a student
better able to understand the problems of living. '

It arouses in him an interest in the surroundings
of his own home.

The experience gained during 1935 and 1936 .
directed the changes desirable and necessary to
make the gardens available to more children. When
work began in 1937, a new garden house includ-
ing two tool rooms, a shop and a classroom were
available. The tract was divided into 370 gardens
20 feet by 60 feet. Students from all junior high
schools in the district participated. They were
transported in busses according to schedule from

the schools too far removed from the horticultural
gardens.

During the summer time our gardens operate in
the same way as a school for ten weeks or the
length of the vacation period. Classes are sched-
uled for five days of the week. The length of the
period is one and one—half hours. This time is

(Continued on page 741)

Gardens - Here, There and Everywhere

A brief résumé of a comprehensive report given by
MIssMarcella Hayes,Chairman,Junior Gardens Com-
mittee, National Council of State Garden Clubs

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL of State Garden Clubs
has been active for several years in ‘sponsor-
ing the organization of junior garden clubs
throughout the nation. State Federations of Car-
den Clubs and local units within the State Federa-
tions have appointed junior club chairmen and
committees to plan pr0grams for training children
in gardening and nature study. Appreciation of
the natural world is fostered by knowledge of it
and association with it. Since too many children
no longer have this training at home and too few
schools are equipped to handle this phase of edu—
cation, garden clubs have a line opportunity to
present to children a fascinating hobby and de-
ve10p in them some civic pride and responsibility.
The scope of these programs and the extent of
their development are suggested in the reports
from the state chairmen. Besides planning and
making and caring for gardens, junior clubs learn
to identify wild flowers, shrubs and native trees,
to recognize song and game birds and through
their discussions and field trips to understand the
meaning of conservation. Projects in civic and
roadside beautification can always be found to
challenge the imagination
and skill of the older boys
and girls, so
that the pro- , , " Mr”
gram holds al—
most endless . ;
possibilities. It
is impossible to
adequately
summarize the
fine work that
is being done
all over the
country, but the
following brief
résumé sug-
gests some of
the many ways

‘ O

I
1* ‘k..-m_.-._t_m ., .

Courtesy Mmicre, Indiana, Garden Club

The Muncie. Indiana. Garden Club displays
its products at the Delaware County Fair

      

that this activity has been planned for children.

In some places the children have been infor-
mally gathered together by a counselor to discuss
growing flowers and vegetables. The Junior Gar—
den Club in Riverhead, N. Y., meets its counselor
one day a week for two hours to work in their
tract garden which is 180 feet by 80 feet. Each
of the forty-five members has a section of his own
to care for. In Michigan, the junior garden club
members have their flower or-vegetable gardens
at home.

Monthly programs of activities. have been
worked out in New Hampshire where observation
hikes, identification contests, and pilgrimages to
other gardens help the children to recognize wild
flowers and birds and appreciate their beauty and
the care and protection that they need.

Other state garden clubs have planned their
junior programs around the subject of conserva-
tion. In Illinois the state chairman sends infor-
mational bulletins to junior counselors preceding
their meetings as an aid in handling the lesson
material. During the winter a study of the for-
est and its inhabitants and their conservation fur-
nish topics for meetings. In
the spring the counselors
plan annual
gardens to be
cared for by
the children
during the sum-
mer, and in the
fall sponsor
flower shows
a n d a w a r d
prizes. Eigh-
teen thousand
children in II-
linois are mem-
bers of junior

garden clubs.
The Wiscon-

729

730 GARDENS—HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE

sin Garden Club Federation is emphasizing con—
servation this year by an extensive program of
tree study. Conservation \Veek marked. the first
birthday of the Wisconsin School Children’s For-
est of 1240 acres, nine miles from Eagle River.
Last year the contributions of school children paid
for planting 108 acres of this tract. Nearly 97,000
pines were set out. This year the project will be
continued. With “Four Pines for a Penny” it is
hoped that many more acres will be added to the
forest plantation. One hundred and twenty-four
Wisconsin schools operate forests of their own
ranging from forty acres up to several hundred.
The Federated Garden Clubs of New York State
have promoted a program of tree planting in con-
nection with the Constitution Sesquicentennial
Celebration.

The Junior Garden Club organization of Ten—
nessee has grown very rapidly. Thousands of
children have received instruction regarding the
care aiid conservation of trees, wild life and flow-
ers through the medium of lectures, radio talks
and press publicity. They also sponsored a tree
planting contest.

In Michigan the Federation Garden Clubs spon—
sored a wildlife camera contest to stimulate the
juniors’ interest in protecting and conserving their
state’s natural resources. The children were asked
to provide feeding stations for song and game
birds and the smaller animals that suffer in un-
usually long hard winters.

Conservation VVeek in the Schools of Virginia
was promoted last April by the State Garden Club
in connection with the State Department of Edu—
cation. Monday—“V’Vild Flower Day”; Tuesday
-—“Virginia’s Forests Day”; W'ednesday—“The
Value of Birds”; Thursday—“Care of Ever—
greens”; Friday—“Arbor Day.” There are six-
teen junior garden clubs in Virginia.

In several other states the groups of boys and
girls are brought together in the schools. The
Garden Club of North Carolina aims to have “a
state garden club in every county and every club
sponsoring a junior garden club.” They feel that
the best way to reach the children is through the
schools.

Community-wide interest in the beautification
of homes, streets, and public buildings has been
stimulated through the activities of the Muncie,
Indiana, Junior- Garden Club. The major project
has been the improvement of school grounds
where tons of top soil have been moved and
shrubbery, trees and grass seed planted. Through

questionnaires sent to the homes of the children
the club learned what had been done at home and
what kinds of seeds could best be used when 5000
packets are distributed this spring.

Often the Junior Garden Club program is cor—
related with the regular science courses of the
school curriculum. Fifty schools in Louisville,
Kentucky, have outdoor gardens, fourteen of
which are open during the summer under a super-
visor and seven assistants. Where there is no
space available at school, neighbors cooperate by
offering their backyards.

In Kansas City, Missouri, the garden clubs
have been active for about ten years and have co—
operated with twenty—three public schools as well
as neighborhood centers. Last year they distrib—
uted 25,000 packets of flower and vegetable seeds
among the 10,000 junior members. Tomato and
pepper plants were provided for the school chil-
dren’s gardens.

The Public School Division of the Garden Clubs
of New Jersey was able to have a state—wide
nature exhibit. The Newark Center Market was
donated by the City Commission for the pur-
pose. The children did most of the planting them— ‘
selves and the many entries represented the daily
classroom work of the children from seventeen
schools. The exhibits included a small house sur—
rounded by a garden; a roadside stand; a class-
room window box in bloom; trays depicting the
life and flora of different countries; art interpre—
tation in murals and posters; flower containers in
metal and pottery'made in manual and fine arts
department; and thousands of seedlings grown in
classroom trays and school conservatories.

Adult garden clubs have not only planned pro—
grams for the children but have given generously
of their time and material to help the juniors have
successful gardens. Prizes of many kinds have
been offered. Books, tools, bulbs, seeds, medals,
pins and ribbons have been given for outstanding
work and fine produce. In addition to the prizes
furnished for junior groups that are sponsored
directly, adult clubs have been very generous in
cooperating with other organizations already pro-
moting the activity.

In Cleveland, Ohio, two types of awards have
been provided by the Garden Center that seem
to symbolize the interest of the community in the
school garden work. “The Junior Achievement
Award” is for boys and girls and is given at the
recommendation of the teachers who supervise

(Continued on page 742)

 

lndustry and Little Gardens

only as an emergency measure in war time

or in an economic depression. Investigation

shows, however, that garden programs de—
veloped during these periods of pressure expan—
sion fill a real need in the normal life of the people
and persist long after the emergency has passed.
There are industries in the country that have set
aside suitable land near their factories for em-
ployees to use, and they have been encouraging
cooperativegardening for ten, fifteen and even
twenty-five years.

Since 1914 there has been an Agricultural So-
ciety among the employees of the Norton Com-
pany in Worcester, Massachusetts, which has en—
gaged in cooperative buying of seeds, fertilizer
and other materials. The Society included riot
only the original applicants for company gardens
but all other employees who were prepared to
carry on gardening operations under its rules. A
nominal charge of $1.50 was made by the Society
)r each garden plot. During “good times” and

verage years nearly a constant level of member-
.hip has been maintained, while in periods of
emergency there has been a sharp increase in the
number of applications. The Company plows and
harrows the fields and stakes off the garden plots
which measure 75
feet by 50 feet.
The land is free
for all employees
who are ready to
plant and main-
tain a garden.

The employees
of the H. E. Sta—
ley Manufactur—
ing Company of

INDUSTRIAL GARDENS are often thought of

\

The mer‘nbers of
the Staley Fel-
lowship Club are
proud of their
300 gardens
which are plant-
e d a n d c u l-
+iva+ed under
s u p e r v i s i o n

T - l 7' V y I V I . . ‘
‘  _  I I . A

. , - A 7- - I; .

\ I , - ' ¢ ’-

, . , I o..
‘ MW ,

. ~ 7 ‘ H I b
- In. a r .- . :1  r .
r‘ '  ‘ '9 w ( h ‘3 ‘9" ' '9 l

. .‘ a

. I '§ '° ’ i
P’... 4.01“  1" ‘ d

A, _ r-x

A brief statement regarding the gardening
activities of a number of industrial plants

Decatur, Illinois, have an organization known as
the Staley Fellowship Club. This club sponsors
many activities, one of which is the Staley In—
dustrial Garden. The Company turns over an area
of nearly sixty acres for this purpose, which is
divided into about 300 gardens 45 by I 50 feet.
The club employs a supervisor to manage the
project and guard the property. He has the land
plowed, disced and fertilized, and the lots sur—
veyed and staked off. Each year the supervisor
draws plans for planting to conform to a three
year rotation of crops to aid in conserving the
fertility of the soil. The applicants for the gar-
dens receive identification cards and bulletins per-
taining to the preparation of the seed bed, with
planting and cultural directions for the crops that
have been selected. The club contracts with a

local firm to furnish seeds at a discount to mem-
ber gardeners. No accurate statistics on the pro—
duction are kept, but the Value of crop and the
experience is evidenced in the continual demand
for garden plots.

Since I932 the Rock Island Railroad has set

    

Courtesy H. E. Staley Illannfactnring Company

732 INDUSTRY AND LITTLE GARDENS

 

"of in-O.” -...o;1

Courtesy International Harvester Company

aside certain plots of its va-
cant property under s11per—
vision of representatives of
the company for the use of
the employees for vegetable
gardens. These gardens have
been fairly well distributed
throughout the fourteen
states traversed by the rail— '
road. The size of the plots range from six to
thirteen acres. They are carefully laid out into
individual gardens, allotted in the order of appli-
cations received. Preference is given to fur-
loughed employees, part—time employees, and full-
time employees, in the order named.

At the shops of the Rock Island Railroad at
Silvis, Illinois, thirt'een acres of Company property
were drained, plowed, levelled and laid out in
fifty-seven plots. Seed is furnished by the local
and county relief agencies and the railroad relief
committee. Information concerning methods of
preparation, cultivation and insect control is se-
cured from literature published by state and Fed-
eral agencies and from pamphlets distributed by
seed companies. From year to year the same plot
is assigned to the same employee if he so desires,
with the result that each gardener is inclined to
clean up his plot, burn all refuse, and leave the
soil in good condition for spring cultivation.

Between fifty and sixty employees of the Arm—
strong Cork Company in Lancaster, Fa, get the
benefit of healthy, out-of—door recreation that
yields very satisfactory returns when harvest time
arrives. The Company sets aside a tract of about
twelve acres and arranges for the preparation of

 

During the depression years 2200 acres
of land—one-tweltth of “an acre for a
family of two—were made available to
the employees of the International Har-
vester Company for vegetable gardens.
The Company used its own proPerty and
rented other areas after they had been
examined and approved by specialists of
its Agricultural Extension Department. that year 10,196 gardens

 

the land. The cost of this is
pro rated and paid for by the
users.

In 1933 the Garden De-

partment was introduced at

the Rouge Plant of the Ford
Motor Company, and during

were asssigned to its em-
ployees. Each year there has been a greater de-
mand for the use of garden plots, and in 1937
there were 16,694 gardens assigned. The garden
lots are 50 feet by 100 feet, and it is estimated
that an area of that size will supply fresh vege—
tables for a family of iive. During the winter
months request cards are signed by those wishing
gardens. Large families may have more than one

plot. In the spring assignments are made so that
the plots will be as near as possible to the em-
ployee’s home. The Company plows all the land
in the fall and in the early spring it is disced and
harrowed. Besides the gardens for the employees,
about 2000 other lots are prepared for school chil-
dren, Boy Scouts and people not working for the
Ford Motor Company. Watchmen are placed at
each field, and the men chosen for these positions
are able to advise and instruct inquirers about
planting and cultivating their crops.

Aesthetic as Well as Utilitarian Values

The crop has been the primary motive in es-
tablishing m0st industrial gardens. However,
there are two companies whose garden program

'( Continued on page 743)

WORLD AT PLAY

ON April 4 and 5,
1938, the annual moun-
tain folk festival for
the schools and centers
in the southern highland will be held at Berea Col~
lege, Kentucky. Each center has been invited to
send a team limited to eight people which may
give a demonstratiOn of folk games to last not
longer than ten minutes. The folk festival is held
to encourage the preservation of all folk material
--s0ngs, games and play. It is not competitive in
any way, and there are no judges, prizes or rib-
bons. “It is for the joy of playing together and
for exchanging ideas.”

Annual Mountain
Folk Festival

TWO sports, accord-
ing to the annual re—
port of the Oakland,
California, Board 'Of
Playground Directors, have become prominent as
adult activities during the past year. Softball, with
the impetus 0f the Opening of three lighted dia-
monds in May 1936, has attracted 191,000 players
and spectators. The diamonds are being used to
capacity every evening. Badminton as a co-recre-
ational activity‘ increases its followers constantly.
Tennis also is a popular adult activity and the
thirty-eight public courts are usually tilled to
capacity.

Popular Games in
Oakland

AS a result of four
days of “sand duning,”
“bog trotting,” “beach
combing” and beach
craft on Cap Cod under the guidance of Dr. Wil-
liam G. Vinal, the Massachusetts State College
. Extension Service has decided to organize a series
of monthly nature study trips. It is planned to
confer with people on the Cape who have an in-
terest in some special field of nature, with the
Marine Biological Laboratory, the State Forester,
the manager of a bird farm and the Austin Omi-
thological Society. When Dr. Vinal’s suggestions
for the need for making a certain part of the Cape
a sanctuary—a sanctuary for birds, fast—disap-
pearing plants and sand dunes which may all-too—
soon be “settled"——-were brought before the con-
servation committee of one of the 'garden clubs,
the club immediately took steps to find out more

Nature Activities on
Cape Cod

about this area and to plan for its preservation.

' Dr. Vinal, formerly Specialist in Nature Activi—

ties for the National Recreation Association
directed the Nature Guide Summer School at
Massachusetts State College this past summer.

FROM three to four
hundred boys together
with some fathers and
adult relatives gather-
ed on December 14th for an inter-club rally con-
ducted by the Federated Boys Clubs of Somer-
ville, Massachusetts and sponsored by the Recrea-
tion Commission. The Mayor and a number of
city officials and outstanding citizens were present
and took part in the program. The committee on
arrangements, with representatives from each of
the seventeen clubs for I which the Recreation
Commission provides counselors, arranged an in,-
teresting program. It included an exhibition of
tumbling, a clever skit, selections by a Hillbilly
band, an exhibition of ping-pong, a boxing bout,
a game of basketball featuring the new rules, a
harmonica quartet, vocal solos, community sing-
ing, competitive games and races, and a number
of other features.

Inter-Club Rally
for Boys

 

T O U R I S T S and
“winter visitants” to
Tampa, Florida, found
the Board of Public
Recreation ready to serve their recreational needs.
A Tourist Recreation Center was Opened on Octo-
ber I 5, when visitors registered for the various
clubs and activities. The Social Club held a dance
late in the month with more than 100 members
present. The total attendance for the month was
1,520 persons. During October, 65 units and 150
guests were accommodated at the Municipal
Trailer Park where there is a recreation building.
Card parties are scheduled here two nights a week
and dances take place on two additional evenings

each week.

Recreation _ for
Tourists

 

 

UNDER this intrigu-
ing title Boston held
its second leisure—time
show in the Mechanics

Building. The exhibit was sponsored by the
733

“1001 Ways to Use
Your Spare Time”

 

734 , WORLD AT PLAY

    
    
  
   

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE

May 31-——Iune 17. 1938

WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY

THREE WEEKS institute for experienced group workers in-

cluding credit courses in Principles of Group Work, Supervision
of Group Work. Work with 1ndividuals in Groups. and the Use of

Creative Arts in Group Work (dramatics, crafts. music). .
A bachelor's degree from a college of approved standing is required
for admission. For information address

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES
Western Reserve University Cleveland, Ohio

   

Youth Agencies Council, a division of the Boston
Council of Social Agencies, in cooperation with
other organizations helping to meet conditions
created by the modern industrial age. Girl Scouts
and Boy Scouts, the Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.,
boys’ clubs and groups devoted to nature study
and hiking; amateur astronomers, telescope mak-
ers, stamp collectors, and arts and crafts clubs and
classes were among the exhibitors. The adult rec-
reation project, sponsored by Community Service
of Boston, occupied a booth, while in the arts and
crafts division a portrait painter made lifelike
'crayon study of his model, both of them amateur
artists who had learned their art at one of the art
centers. Leather workers, metal craftsmen and
rug weavers demonstrated their crafts. At the
piano an accompanist of the Choral Division pro—
vided a musicalbackground for other exhibitors
who made puppets and properties for community
theaters. The lecture and discussion group was
represented by pictures and posters, and in the
basement a game room was in full swing.

Nature Garden Clubs—Since the School Gar—

den Association of America registered the first‘

Nature Garden Club early in 1935, more than
2,000 of these groups of boys and girls, repre-
senting more than 50,000 members in twenty-
three states, have been formed. These clubs are
being sponsored by the schools and other groups
as a means of teaching elementary science in an
informal manner. The activities of the clubs are
easily adaptable to all age levels and clubs are
registered in schools ranging from primary grades
to the junior college. A leaHet giving information
about this project may be secured from Karl H.
Blanch, Chairman, National Committee on Nat—
ure Garden Clubs, East Mauch Chunk, Pennsyl—
vama.

Junior Audubon Clubs—Junior Audubon
Clubs, formed throughout the United States and
Canada during the I936-1937 school year, totalled

6,201 with 170,210 enrolled members. Over
5,500,000 have enrolled‘ since the inception of the
plan.

Members of the clubs are invited to take part
in the 1938 essay contest on the subject, “\Vhy
Should We Have Bird Sanctuaries?” There are-
three divisions of the contest: (I) for teachers or
other organizers; (2) for boys and girls in unior
and senior high school grades; (3) for children in
grades I to 6. The essay must be in the. office of'
the National Association of Audubon Societies by
April 15, 1938. Further information may be se—
cured from the National Association, 1775 Broad—
way, New York .City.

School Gardens Yield Invisible Creps

(Continued from page 695)

slag which now constitutes such a play area for
most schools. Perhaps such an enlarged vision
would provide a more frequent and satisfactory
answer for the plaintive query of a class of iifth
grade pUpils from a gardenless school who, after
visiting one of the tracts here described, inquired
of their teacher, “Miss . . . . . ., why can’t we have
a garden like that at our school?”

Gardening with the 4-H Clubs

(Continued from page 702) _

In some states, 4-H garden club members have
bought their seeds and sprays on a cooperative
basis. In several states, they have also marketed
their products cooperatively.

4—H garden club members participated in many
activities that did much to make their work of
more interest and help to them personally. Such
activities included 4-H tours to the homes of the
members in order to learn from the experiences
of the others; demonstration team work whereby
members demonstrated at community meetings
what they had learned in their garden clubs, and
judging work by which they learned to select
quality products for exhibits and marketing pur~
poses. At the regular 4—H club meetings,'they
learned much also from the discussions regarding
the progress being made, the difliculties encoun-
tered and the advantages of garden club work in
general. In some states, garden club posters made
by the members have proved effective in inHuenc-
ing more young people to enroll. These 4-H gar-
den posters include appeals for a, garden such as
the following:

- “'.A|./

'  w... «a... $er

" a. .
5'

“at .  $3. 553%,”. 0' .t‘ I., A .04“, Sr. . .
 Muguiwiwm ' 'anm..£,‘d:““ gig

I

O C
- ~-._-—-l'
1. ' -

 

Easily Applied - Inexpensive - Long Lasting

HERE is a practical solution to the dust tion per season or year will suffice.
problem on playgrounds,tennis courts Write for your copy of our free booklet
and athletic fields! “Gulf Sani-Soil-Set.” It will give you com-
Gulf Sani-Soil-Set—developed by Gulf’s plete information about this remarkable
research technologists—is an ideal product dust allayer.
for dust allaying purposes on earth sur-
faces. Properly applied, it will not “track”. _ GULF o”- CORPORATION
It will not harm shoes or clothing. It can GULF REHNING COMPANY
[ be applied at low COSt—and one aPPliCa' Gum GENERAL OFFICES: GULF BUILDING,
PITTSBURGH. PA.

.~4 .
«Ex:

GULF on. CORPORATION - GULF REFINING COMPANY, .
General Olflces: Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. R
“Gqu .

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet

O
O
. Sani-SoiLSet for Treating Playgrounds.” .
. Name ........................................................ ........ .
O
0

Company . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . ..,....-..... . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
AAAAAAAA-A‘AAAAAAAAAA

 

736 HELPING CHILDREN’S GARDENS GROW

 

HOWTO ORGANIZE
AND PROMOTE a '
MRSESHOE CLUB l

  
     

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

.WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.

It supplies a variety of fresh vegetables from
early spring until killing frost in fall.

It supplies certain vegetables for storage in a
fresh state for winter.

It provides a surplus for canning and drying.

It is the cheapest and best way to supply
vegetables.

Vegetables are necessary in a balanced diet.

It affords outdoor exercise.

It makes the farm home more attractive.

In brief, 4-H club members soon learn that a
farm without a garden is like a home without a
kitchen. And in learning all these things in the
growing of gardens, often overcoming little an-
ticipated difficulties, 4-H young people make sur-
prising strides in their own personal growth and
development.

 

 

 

Helping Children's Gardens Grow

(Continued from page 706)

helped to brighten their rooms. A number of the
garden clubs of the Guild have organized chil-
dren’s gardens to foster the love of flowers, that
all children have, and to educate the young folk
in their planting and cultivation, feeling that the

love of gardens, as of every other beautiful and
refining thing, must increase to the end of time.

Some Interesting Experiments

In 192 5 the National Guild, in cooperation with
the Museum of the American Indian, undertook
an interesting experiment. Six acres of land were
donated by the Museum and small individual plots
were laid out for children’s gardens. Here were
planted and grown native American flowers and
vegetables in which the Museum is especially in-
terested—tobacco, Indian corn and the like—and
specimens of these plants, peculiarly indigenous to
American soil, were presented to the public
schools which used them as a basis for lessons
in patriotism and good citizenship.

The National Guild, through the efforts of“ its
branches and garden clubs, has made plans to
establish and maintain a roof garden at Bellevue
Hospital, New York City, for the benefit and en—
joyment of the crippled children in the ortho-
pedic wards. On a roof 80’ x 32’, the garden is
to be made from plans drawn by Helen Swift
Jones, landscape architect. A part of the space
will be given over to the children for their own
garden. A formal garden will occupy other space
and will be furnished with flowering plants and
evergreens in boxes. There is to be a sun dial, a
bird bath and other garden features, while just
outside the entrance to the wards there will be a
terrace under a large awning with beds and deck
chairs for the children who have to remain quiet.
As a further attraction there will be a small play-
ground with sand boxes and swings. This garden
is being given to the. hospital as a memorial to
Mrs. John Wood Stewart, founder of the Na-
tional Plant, Flower and Fruit Guild.

The Development of School

Gardening in Boston
(C antinued from page 709)

exhibition of the products of children’s gardens
held at Horticultural Hall in September of each
year. This exhibition is helpful as an opportunity
for practice in selecting and arranging the best
products. At the most recent of these miniature
fairs, 800 Boston children showed their flowers
and vegetables, and won seventy per cent of the
prizes with a total value of $290.00. Through the
Massachusetts Horticultural Society, Miss Marian
Roby Case, owner of Hillcrest Gardens, -Weston,
offers bronze medals to the school and home gar-

THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCHOOL GARDENING IN BOSTON 737

MakeYour Playgrounds

EXTRA SAFE

Safety is an important factor when you
select playground equipment. Make it
extra safe with EVERWEAR, the equipment
that has safety “built in.”

EVERWEAB takes the danger element out of
swings by making swing seats of air-
cushioned rubber, strong and durable, yet
soft enough to absorb the shock of a
chance blow. This patented seat has a
wooden core, completely edged in deep
air-cushioned rubber of exceptional tough-
ness and durability, locked to the case by
concealed strips. '

Other apparatus—slides, swings, merry-go-rounds and ladders are made to withstand maximum loads. Metal parts
are rust-proofed, wood is given two coats of jade-green paint, and steel frame fittings weld the outfits into
strong, durable units. '

Investigate the famous EVERWEAR line of equipment. Find out how it can add safety to the popularity of your
playground. Send for the FREE catalog No. 28 TODAY. Address Dept. R.

 U  A In” line of 5900" and pool equipment is

M F t . C also manufactured by the EVERWEAR Company.
mu ac unng ompany C t I 2 8 W . l .
SPRINGFIELD. OHIO a a og gwes comp ete details.

Dept. R

 

deners who do distinguished work, and several of
our Boston children qualify for these awards each

Swimming Pool Data and

summer.
Values of the Program Re'Ference Annual
The garden project has resulted in delinite gains (1937 Edition. vol. v)
'in the physical, moral and mental well-being of
thousands of Boston children. They have found $3.00 Prepai d

prohtable occupation of their spare time, and will
continue to occupy their leisure throughout life in
a healthy hobby. They have proudly borne to
their homes products grown by their hands and,
in some sections, those fresh vegetables have
meant a great saving and a help to their mothers.
Moral training has come to them in the well-
learned lesson that application to work determines 0

th dc ree of success, whether it be gained 1n
e g EARL K. COLLINS. Editor

harvesting crops or in any productive enterprise.

Our boys and girls have gained a better com- 425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.
munity spirit—a pride and appreciation of the
beauty of living things. From these children we .
need not fear vandalism in our parks or our road—
sides. They know the beauty that is about them Make 6“ Checks. money orders. efc”
.and they will help to conserve it. And during the
process of their introduction to the world of

Nature which they, as city youngsters, might

O l92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested

in swimming pools in any way.

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

738 CHILDREN’S GARDENS AS A COMMUNITY PROJECT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment

for all Sports CATALOG

SENT ON
REQUEST

.THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
  . (NOMAD..-

‘ t 5"  'Vx"“'W ww  - (I ‘

 

never have understood or fully appreciated, they
have had the joy of work, play and study in the
open air, safely off the streets where danger
always lurks for children.

As the result of early experience in school gar—
dening many of our Boston children have been in-
spired to follow agricultural vocations. That we
have, through this program, opened the road to
new opportunity in agriculture for our boys and
girls, is one of the proudest boasts of the Boston
Public Schools.

Six of our former garden boys received upon
our city plots the impetus that sent them onward
until they now hold the coveted degrees of Doc-
tor of Philosophy from Harvard University and
are recognized leaders in agricultural science.
Thirty graduates went on from Jamaica Plain High
School course for further agricultural study at
the Massachusetts State College in Amherst; lif-
teen graduates continued their education at the
Stockbridge School, and many of the graduates
of this course, inspired to pursue agricultural vo—
cations by early acquaintance with school garden-
ing, are today active in productive agriculture and
related occupations, such as the distribution and
processing of farm products.

Children's Gardens'as a Community

Project
(Continued from page 710)

ern VVestchester. These trails, arranged by the
Bedford Garden Club, are an excellent example
of What can be done with waste land as an edu—
cational project. Trees, shrubbery and wild How-
ers have been carefully marked so that one may
learn about a hundred various species. A trained
natUralist conducted the party to a beaver dam on
the reservation, which is only forty miles from
New York City. They climbed through caves,
studied trees and wild dowers, cooked their lunch
over open tires, and were thrilled with bird calls
with which the naturalist entertained them.

In November, the group visited the local gar-
den of Dr. and Mrs. A. C. Langmuir. This gar—
den has been developed out of an' old quarry by
using natural caves and interesting rock forma—
tion and overlooks the Hudson River. Other club
activities were the planting of dish gardens, after
a demonstration by an experienced gardener, the
starting of bulbs for Christmas gifts, and the
decoration of the high school auditorium for a
Christmas program. These activities were carried
on in regular club meetings. .

“7e are confident that the first eight months of
club activity have been successful; the children
are still interested and are already talking about
their gardening plans for next summer. What has
made it successful when previous attempts failed?
We believe there are four reasons:

I. The program has been planned to provide
activity for every month in the year. It is not
enough to have ordinary club meetings. They
must be supplemented with excursions and visits
to interesting gardens, nature trails and other
places.

2. There is more interest among children in the
age range from eleven to fourteen years. Younger
children are usually too immature to keep up con—
tinued interest. Older boys and girls who have not
had the background think they are too grown-up.

3. It is unsatisfactory to have more than one
club leader.

4. Finally, the most important recommendation
is to develop a junior garden club as a community
project. In our community the school has the
children and the time for extra-curricular activity
under leadership; the garden clubs have experi—
enced adult members who are willing to give ad-
vice and suggestions as well as provide the chil-

THE GARDEN CENTER INST] TU TE OF BUFFALO

dren with plants and seeds; the Recreation Divi—
sion tills the gap during the summer months by
providing a program for club members. A close
relationship exists during the entire year between
the school and the Recreation Division which
makes this cooperation possible.

 

The Garden Center Institute
of Buffalo

(Continued from page 717)

chemical stimulants in plant propagation, and
Harry R. O’Brien, loved as the “Plain Dirt Gar-
dener" of Better Homes and Gardens. Among
the speakers appealing to nature students and con-
servationists were Dr. Arthur A. Allen, author of
American Bird Biographies, and Roger Tory Pe-
terson, author of A Field Guide to the Birds.
Garden club members attended meetings at which
guest speakers were Ellen Eddy Shaw, Curator of
Junior Education at the Brooklyn Botanic Gar-
den, M rs. William Crocker, President of the Fed-
erated Garden Clubs of New York State, Dorothy
Biddle, editor of Garden Digest, and Mrs. Con-
stance Spry, English authority on flower ar-
rangement.

For this lecture program the garden center co-
operated on certain occasions with other local or-
ganizations. Among the co-sponsors were teach-
ers associations, garden clubs, farm and home
bureaus, nature societies and local women’s clubs.
Other agencies contributing toward the support of
the work by aiding in the maintenance of the
center’s office are the Parks Department of the
City of Buffalo, the Adult Education Department
and the National Youth Administration.

Work with Children

Another phase of the garden center’s activity is
with children. We have long wanted to work with
juniors in the field of gardening, but until last
spring this hope could not be realized. At that
time, however, a junior gardening class was
formed under the supervision of a local garden
club member. Once each week the group met at
the center to plant flower and vegetable seeds,
study their culture and learn their characteristics
while they drew paper plans for the design of
garden plots at home. In early summer the an-
nual Bafle Evening News flower show pro—
vided classes in which the children exhibited their
products. Throughout the summer the junior
class met at the home 'of the instructor to study
flower arrangement and to work out-of—doors. To

739

VOIT SOFT BALL

 

. . . The speed
camera catches
the crushing im-
pact as slugging
bat flattens on-
coming ball. This
happens every
time a soft ball is
batted. No won-
der ordinary soft
balls lose their
3 h a p o. b r e a 11
stitches, open
seams, split cov-
ers! Read why the
Voit stitch-lo ss,
seamless soft ball,
with its one-piece
composition cover
permanently Vul-
canized to the
center, goes "back
to round" in-
stantly—outwears
any horsehide
made. outperforms

   

You'll agree—it's the perfect Soft Balli
Its smooth-grained one-piece compo-
sition cover, scientifically treated to
insure correct rebound, has no stitches
to rip, wear or tear out. And, since
the seams are only reproduced, the
ball is tougher, longer wearing. Cover.
being vulcanized to the cemented
center by an exclusive VOIT process,
is a permanent part of the ball-—
cover-and-center become virtually a
one-piece unit that cannot loosen.
stretch, or slip. Comes in three cen-
ters: All-Kapok, Cork-and-Wool, Kapok-
and-Wool. Pure white, perfect for
night play. Washable. Weather-and-
waterproof—will neither take on nor
lose weight, crack, dry out, or harden.

all other softballs! Write Dept. R for New Catalog.

W. J VUlT RUBBER EURP. '

quote the instructor, “when the children worked,
a party followed—but, no work, and there was no
party.” In the fall again the class met at the cen-
ter to study fall and winter gardening operations,
but through the winter it met only once for a
class in making Christmas decorations. Soon the
regular spring classes will be resumed with plant-
ing of seed flats.

 

School Gardens in a Small Community
(Continued from page 718)

to plan and plant whatever they wish. The in-

structor shall assign boys and girls to the proper

group depending on ability, experience, age and

quality of work done during the last year.

IO. After planting is completed, gardeners are
to meet twice a week to work on their gardens
under the supervision of the instructor. Class
days and and hours will be announced later.

II. Independent School District N 0. 9 will—

a. plow and fertilize the garden soil;

1). provide all seeds and plants;

6. give instructions in gardening during the
summer;

740 SCHOOL GARDENS IN A SMALL COMMUNITY

   

World’s Best Quality
—at Lowewt Prices!

Make your own Beaded Bags, Belts. Bracelets. Necklaces, Clips.
Hot-Plate Mats. Coasters, Wall Placques. etc. The new. ea_sy-to-
follow. Walco Instruction ond Design Booklets are avoilable
at 10c per copy. Send for them NOW ond get Sample Cards

of Actual Beads FREE.
CI WOOD BEADCRAFT El TILE BEADCRAFT
D CUBE BEADCRAFT

C] INDIAN BEADCRAFT

Check the Beadcratts in which you are interested and send 10c
for each Instruction and Design Booklet desired (Bead samples
includedj—or it you prefer, send for our FREE LITERATURE de-

scribing the various Beadcratts.

WALCO BEAD CO. DEPT. TR-8 37 W. 37TH ST.,N.Y.C.
EDUCATIONAL ° USEFUL LEASCINIATIING

       
       
       
     
   
   
      
   

    

  

d. award small gardening certificates upon
the completion of two years of satisfac-
tory garden work and large certificates
upon the completion of three years of
satisfactory garden work.

Some Additional Facts

For the sake of uniformity and general appear-
ance, all plots of the same size are planted alike.
Gardening plants and seeds are selected by the in-
structor of agriculture, and the plants are grown
by students enrolled in the agriculture depart-
ment.

A Handbook of Private Schools

2Ist Edition. May I937. IIB4 pages.
4000 schools. 250 illustrations. I4
maps. round corners. silk cloth. $6.00

STRUTHERS BURT in the December Forum and
Century—“As to the accredited upper class, if you
wish to find out more about its secondary education,
you can do no better than to read Sargent’s Hand-
book of Private Schools; 21st edition. This is as
necessary to the well-to-do parent as a marriage cer-
tificate. . . . A mine of pergnant quotations.”

UPTON SINCLAIR, Pasadena, Califomia—“I went
through your book with great amusemnt. It seems to
me one of the most picturesque things in America.”

MARGARET MEAD, Bajoeng Gede, Bali, Netherlands
Indies—“I can think of no better way of measuring
the changes which have occurred in educational
thought since leaving the United States, almost two
years ago. than a glimpse into your Handbook.”

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE

Lists the more important Boarding Schools and Junior
Colleges. 2d Edition. 1937. 132 pages. 700 schools.
14 maps. 97 illustrations. cover in color.
Single copy 25 cents.

THE SUMMER CAMP GUIDE

A Guide to the 400 better private camps for boys and
girls. 2d Edition. 1937. 96 pages. 8 maps. 82 illus-
trations. cover in color. Single copy 25 cents.

Write for Table of Contents.

PORTER SARGENT
11 BEACON smear BOSTON. MASS.

 

During the school term gardeners work in their
gardens twice a week after school hours at regu-
larly assigned periods. They are divided into
small groups of about thirty. Instructions for this
work are given each day, and upon completion the
garden is checked by the instructor. The pupils
furnish their own tools. ‘

Demonstrations and talks on planting, thinning,
hoeing, insect control, and the selection and prep-
aration of vegetables for exhibition are given from
time to time. The gardens are used for these
demonstrations.

Many boys and girls have continued their proj-
ect for six or seven years, until they are sixteen
or seventeen years of age and are juniors and
seniors in school. Many of them take full charge
of the family home garden. Three boys have re-
cently won county and state championships on
their 4-H Club garden project, largely as a result
of the knowledge and experience gained in their
school garden projects.

We are proud of our school gardens and feel
that through them and through the efforts of in-
dividual pupils a distinct contribution is being
made to the reduction of the cost of living for
individual families. In general a variety of foods
is made available which might not otherwise be
possible.

The success we have achieved is due in large
part to the planning, organizing and supervising
done by Everett R. Johnson, who for many years
has been in charge of our school gardens.

The School Garden Association

of America
(Continued from page 719)

people the annual meeting of the School Garden
Association of America is held jointly with the
Science Department of the National Education
Association. The next annual meeting will be held
in New York City, June 27th to June 30th, 1938.
For its members the Association publishes a
Quarterly Bulletin. Supplies to assist in the Oper-
ation of nature garden clubs are furnished upon

application for club membership.

Where They Garden'ior Fun!

(Continued from page 723)

The Playground Athletic League in Baltimore
has recently added gardens for children to its rec-
reational program. This activity had previously

WHERE THEY GARDEN FOR FUN! 741

been conducted for fourteen years by the Public
School system. Four gardens are located in parks,
three in yards adjoining schools and two near
branch libraries. All of the gardens include vege-
tables and flowers, but each was designed dif-
ferently. Beside cultivating their gardens, the
children found much pleasure in modelling in
clay and paper, arranging flowers in bouquets,
making bird baths and sun dials, and in gathering
nature collections and materials for garden scrap
books.

On the map of the United States one might
circle in red the names of other communities
where playgrounds are bordered with flowers and
boys and girls are learning to appreciate the nat-
ural world about them through the efforts of the
local recreation departments. Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, is using all the land available for this ac-
tivity and the San Francisco department employs
a special supervisor of children’s gardens. In
Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Beaumont, Texas,
the recreation departrnents cooperate with the
garden clubs, while in Oak Park, Illinois, the Rec-
reation Department provides a place for the unior
garden clubs to meet. All the playgrounds in this
community are landscaped and the director of the
department reports that the play habits of the
children seem to have become more orderly and
disciplined since the planting was done.

Since 1925, groups of children in San Antonio,
Texas, have been interested in having small plots
of their own on the different playgrounds. Be-
sides the favorable climate in that city, the Rec-
reation Department has space with good soil to
expand this activity. At the present time garden-
ing is limited to flowers, and special mention is
made of a very successful old—fashioned garden
on one playground. On a series of Saturday
morning hikes another group of youngsters gath-
ered specimens of native cacti for their play-
ground garden. 'Probably no garden project was
ever” completed more quickly than one undertaken
in San Antonio by a group of Mexican boys and
girls. The children brought sweet potatoes and
glass jars prepared to grow vines for indoor
decoration. The director told a story about the
potato and the food stored in it as she described
the procedure, but the next morning she found
that all the sweet potatoes were gone except one
and that had a large bite taken out of it! Investi—
gation revealed that the children had eaten the
project and solved the problem!

Boys and girls who have known the joy of a

Preferred

by Champions!
CARROM
OFFICIAL

PlNG-PONG
TABLES

 
  
  
     
     

Also
' Carrom Game Boards

Folding Card Tables and Chairs

W rite for Complete Information

 

Leaders Since 1889

- 200 E. Luding’ron Avenue LUDINGTON. MICHIGAN
—

garden are privileged indeed, for this experience
with its valuable lessons is afforded relatively few
children nowadays. Recreation departments, how-
ever, are beginning to realize that through their
own efforts or by c00perating with other agencies
in the community they have in gardening another .
valuable summer-time activity for their boys and
girls.

The Fordson Horticultural Gardens
(Continued from page 728)

divided between field work and class work. The
classroom is built similar to a biological labora-
tory. It is equipped with ample bulletin board
space, side tables, microscopes, books and other
library materials. Here the real business of gar—
dening is laid before the student at the time when
he needs that instruction most. Insects, flowers,
fruits, culture of plants, harvesting of crops and
their use as food are studied.

The setting for this open air education is ideal.
It is rural. In the gardens it is hard to believe
that one can live in a city and have the joy of
gaining an education in such a rural atmosphere.

742

    

  

UNTYING
APRON STRINGS

A Great Book for Parents, Teachers. and other

  
    

Community Leaders, for Adolescent Young

   

People, For Yourself

  
 

vvv

  
 

It’s a guidebook of personality development as eaSy
to read as the daily newspaper; yet it will help you
understand the personality problems of children,
and set you on the way to becoming a better and
happier person yourself.

      
     
 

If you have technical training in psychology, you
will recognize it as accepted scientihc knowledge—
and you will appreciate its readable form.

 
   
    

If you do not have a technical background, it will
open up a New World to you, a world in which
diHiculties you thought were inevitable can be
avoided or cured—and‘it is no harder to under-
stand—and even more fascinating—than an ad—

venture story.

 
   
     
     
 

The Chapter Headings give you a bird's—eye view,
of the book:

     
 

WARPED PERSONALITY PATTERNS

Emotions the Motivating He Likes to “Show-Off”
Forces of Personality He Loves to Punish

He Goes Back to Mother’s He Isn’t Happy Unless He
Arms Is Miserable

His Hand Against the He Feels Inferior
World In Love With Himself

He Enjoys Poor Health Love That Never Grows Up

    
         
     
   
 

ADJUSTMENT

The Attitude of the Adult
Who Would Help

Approach Through Voca-
tional Interests and
Hobbies

Self-Understanding

     

Boy and Girl Relationships

A Directing Philosophy

Personality Development in
the School Community

Religion (With Apologies to
the Church)

       
     
     
   
  

The book alone is $|.00.
The book plus a year's subscription to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE is $2.00
VVV

 
     
   
 

Send Your Order to

CHARACTER ASSOCIATES, Inc.
CHICAGO, ILL.

  
     
 

5732 HARPER AVENUE

    
 

GARDENSmHERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE

From the classroom the homestead of Mr. Henry
Ford’s father can be seen. This lends much to
the reality of the rural setting.

Developments during the past year include the
completion of a potting room at the Fordson
High School. This is for the use of students en-
rolled in horticulture. It provides the means to
service the horticultural gardens and the other
schools of the district doing gardening and natural
science work related to the broad agricultural
program originally planned for the Fordson
Schools. ~

Our demands for gardening education have
grown gradually. This work has not been forced
upon the students. The virtues of the program
have been permitted to produce the demand.
W'hen out—of—door gardening begins in 1938 four
hundred and seventy individual plots will be
planted.

Gardens—Here, There and Everywhere
(Continued from page 730)

the gardens under the school department. “The
School Achievement Award” is presented to
schools that. enroll a certain proportion of their
students in school gardening projects.

The National Council of State Garden Clubs
through its various committees cooperates with
many other national organizations and govern-

, mental departments whose material is available to

Junior Clubs counselors. The Audubon Society,
Forestry Association, W'ildflower Preservation
Society as well as the U. S. Biological Survey and
Federal Department of Agriculture and State De-
partments of Conservation are included, and
also Horticultural Societies and Nature Study
Clubs. Parent-Teacher groups and youth service
organizations have worked with garden clubs, and
garden magazines and newspapers with garden
pages have helped arouse interest. Bulletins from
the Junior Garden Clubs of America, which is a
department of “Better Homes and Gardens”
magazine, have been extensively used by local
clubs throughout the country.

The Junior Garden Club movement represents
a general awakening to the values—both educa-
tional and recreational—that children derive from
contact with the natural world of growing things.
W hen the public demands that this be an experi-
ence for all children instead of for a few, a way
will be found to provide it. The National Coun-
cil of State Garden Clubs is performing a great
service to youth and to the country.

INDUSTRY AND LITTLE GARDENS

§
Send Only $1.00 For A

FIVE MONTHS
TRIAL OFFER

SEND ONLY ONE DOLLAR

and you will receive practical ideas
worth ten times this small amount.

Have you ever longed for some unusual, new
and stimulating creative material that you would
be tremendously enthusiastic about? Well . . .
J UNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES is just crammed from

cover to cover with just that kind of helpful
material.

We want YOU to have the advantage of this
'work, and that’s why we are making this “special

get acquainted offer” . . . Send only one dollar and
we Will put your name on our mailing list to re-
ceive five big issues—February to June.

The only publication for teachers
containing so much actual crea—
tive material and ideas for class-
work in elementary grades.

JUNIOR ARTS
and ACTIVITIES

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO. ILL.

 

 

Industry and Little Gardens
(Continued from page 732)

stresses the aesthetic value of the experience as
well as the utilitarian.

The New River Company located in Mt. Hope,
West Virginia, has encouraged home gardens and
awarded prizes to employees for the best yards
in the community. The general off-ice is ready to
advise employees regarding species of flowers,
shrubs or vegetables to plant, and during each
season holds demonstrations of approved methods
of insect and disease control. Equipment and
standard insecticides are kept in the Company’s
stores and sold at reasonable prices.

In 1936 the Pennsylvania Railroad Garden Club
was organized among the employees of the com-
pany to promote interest in the growing of How-
ers. Although the railroad management approves
the club’s activities, it is entirely an employees or-
ganization with I300 members scattered through-
out the country.

Two flower shows have been held in the new
30th Street Station in Philadelphia that have at-
tracted widespread attention. Exhibits were sent
from Canada, Texas and California. Another
show is being planned for September 23rd and
24th, 1938.

743

   
 

  

SAFETY FOR

Supervised Playgrounds
Just of the press

A 28 page pamphlet on safety in
relation to playground administra-
tion and activity programs. Contains
sections on physical conditions; the
use of apparatus; representative
safety programs; organization of
patrols and safety clubs, games,
handcraft activities and campaigns.

   
     
   
       
      

Price 25 cents

SAFETY EDUCATION
MAGAZINE

provides material for a well-round-
ed safety program based on sea-
sonal hazards. The colored posters,
graded lesson outlines, plays, stor-
ies, informational articles, accident
facts, patrol news items and other
features are prepared by school

people who are experts in the field
of safety teaching.

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
 

Subscription - $1.00 a Year

EDUCATION DIVISION
NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL

One Park Avenue

New York. N. Y.

  
      
 
       

New Publications in the Leisure Time'Field

Costuming the Biblical Play

By Lucy Barton. Walter H. Baker Company, Boston.
$1.35 postpaid.

we ARE GREATLY indebted to Miss Barton, author of

Historic C ostmne for the Stage, for another book on
costumes. This time it‘is the director of Biblical drama
who will profit by Miss Barton's simple and clear de-
criptions and by the drawings by David Sarvis. Together
author and illustrator give sufficient information to en—
able the amateur to create costumes which will be au-

thentic without being expensive. Of very great value to-

the director with a limited budget is the section entitled
“Materials” in which Miss Barton suggests how inex-
pensive materials may be used effectively. Her sugges-
tions for dyeing will also be exceedingly useful to the
group whose funds are limited. A particularly practical
and unique feature of the book is a table of materials and
their uses in costuming. This should be invaluable to the

costumer.

A Manual for the Nature Counselor

Compiled by John M. Roth. Federation of Social Agen-
cies, 519 Smithlield Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvama.

$.50.

HILE THIS 70 page compilation of nature material is

directed to the camp counselor, it is equally valuable
for recreation workers, for the aims and objectives are
applicable and virtually all of the projects may be car-
ried out on or from a playground or institution. Much of
the material is in outline form and hence rather sketchy,
but with the outlines and descriptions given, and by mak-
ing use of the references included, the camp counselor or
recreation worker can plan and carry out an interesting,
all-around nature program. The objectives and philoso-
phy behind a nature program, motivation and correla-
tion with other activities are included, with fairly de-
tailed discussion of nature museums, nature trails, mak-
ing of aquaria and terraria and a list of projects possible
in each field of nature with references and sources em—
phasizing inexpensive publications and materials. There
are suggestions for nature hikes, capture and care of
wild animals and references for nature stories, poems,
talks, discussions and devotional services.

P0pular Sports

Their Origin and Development

Bjé Frank D. Collins. Rand McNally and Co., Chicago.
.10.

THE STORIES, past and present, of over fifty p0pular

sports and games are depicted here, a sport to a page,
with numerous sketches much in the style of the “Be-
lieve It or Not” and the “Strange As It Seems” features
in the newspapers. It is an excellent collection bound in
stiE covers and provides the recreation leader with dra-

744

matic, anecdotal and historical material with which to

'enrich his game program and to create interest in new

activities. Boxing, Billiards, Football, Tennis, Field and
Track, Backgammon, Chess, Bowling and Basketball are
but a few of the sports and games included.

Camping and Guidance

By Ernest G. Osborne. Association Press, 347 Madison

Avenue, New York. $2.00.

HE DISTINCTIVE contribution of this book to the theory

of education in the summer camp is the insistence on
an understanding of the individual by camp leaders and
the adaptation of program resources and leadership to
his needs. The author, a member of the Child Develop-
ment Institute of Teachers College, Columbia University,
presents simply and concretely the potentialities of the
soundly organized camp, stressing continually the im—
portance of developing the whole personality of the child.

The Conduct of Physical Education
lts Organization and Administration

for Girls and Women

By Mabel Lee. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.
$3.00.
IT IS THE AUTHOR’S earnest hope that “this book will in—
spire a sound philosOphy of the fundamentals of or-
ganizing and administering physical~education according
to the highest professional standards and ideals.” The
book in itself is a justification of its author’s hope, for
in this comprehensive and carefully worked out volume
organizers and administratOrs of programs and physical
education directors of girls and women and recreation
workers as well, will find information which will help
them in making their programs not only sound in theory
and practice, but rich in conteht. Miss Lee has incor-
porated a wealth of material on appraisal of activities,
program problems, facilities and equipment, health and
safety programs, coSt information, and helpful data on
administrative procedures. And throughout is the in-
sistence on standards and ideals which is fundamental to
a sound program.

IO One -Act Plays

Selected and Edited by Fred Eastman. Willett, Clark &
Co., Chicago. $2.00.
IN THIS BOOK Mr. Eastman is concerned with providing
plays that may develop strength and beauty inlthe in-
ner life. Finding an increasing demand for plays of this
type Mr. Eastman has read hundreds of plays from which
he has selected ten, while within the capacity of ama-
teur groups, do have important and gripping conflicts,
worth while to the player and capable of sending the
audience away in exhaltation of spirit. The plays are:

NEH” PUBLICATIONS [N THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 745

Pawns by Percival Wilde; Prize Money by Louis Wil-
son; Monsignor’s Hour by Emmet Lavery; The Great
Choice by Fred Eastman; He Came Seeing by Mary P.
Hamlin; Tidings of Joy by Elizabeth McFadden; The
Tail of the Dragon by Elliott Field; The Lord’s Prayer
by Francois Coppee; Twentieth Century Lullaby by
Cedric Mount; Peace I Give Unto You by Dorothy
Clarke \Vilson. '

Games for Two.

By Gloria Goddard and Clement Wood. Hillman-
Curl, Inc., New York. $1.45.

The alternative title of this book, “How to Keep the
Reno Wolf Away from Your Door,” suggests the tone of
the volume. The book is divided into four sections—
Card Games; Other Games; Games of Culture, and
Games for Partners. The emphasis throughout is on
card games. Directions are presented in a clear, concise
manner, and throughout the volume there are excellent
photographs and diagrams. Individuals and groups plan-
ning for parties which are somewhat sophisticated will
find the suggestions helpful.

Shellcraft.

By Ruth Lippincott Walworth. Geddes Press, Fort
Myers, Florida. $.60.

Have you ever thought of the ornamental and utili-
tarian articles which can be made from shells? In this
booklet the author describes fifty-three articles which she
has created. These include birds, mammals, reptiles and
amphibians, novelties, tallies and place cards. And, in ad-
dition, there is interesting information about the shells
used in making them, introducing their scientific names.
F ifty-three illustrations accompany the text.

Parkways and Land Values.

John N olen and Henry V. Hubbard. Harvard Uni-
versity Press, 1937. $1.50.

This is a very careful and considered study and analysis
of the functions of parkways, methods of financing them
and their effect _on property values. Detailed study was
confined to a few specific examples, the parkways of Bos-
ton and the Boston Metropolitan District, Kansas City
and Westchester County (New York) being those chosen.
These were selected as Boston has a metrOpolitan (re-
gional) system of parkways, Kansas City a municipal
system, and Westchester a county system. Boston and
Kansas City have old systems offering opportunity to
study results after a long period of years, whereas the
Westchester system is recent and embodies modern ideas
of planning for traflic and recreation purposes. The
analysis of these parkways covers general background,
administrative organization, design, regulation of use,
cost, methods of acquisition, financing, assessement, and
economic effects on property. The discussion on,the
various factors that enter into an appraisal of increase in
land values which -can be attributed to parkways is of
particular importance.

The Circus Is in Town.

The Crowell Publishing Company, New York. $.15.

New suggestions for amateur circuses are always in
demand! “If you want to have a party that’s ‘as much
fun as a circuS’——have a circus!” says the introduction to
this attractive booklet. "‘Whether you are planning a
purely social time or combining profit with pleasure, the
amateur circus will prove pOpular.” There are ideas
galore in this sixteen page booklet.

Stories Behind the World’s Great Music.

By Sigmund Spaeth. Whittlesey House, McGraw-
Hill Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

Through this book we catch a penetrating and intimate

glimpse of nearly twenty musical geniuses whose names
are known in every household. We meet such figures as
Bach, Mozart, Schubert, Mendelssohn, Verdi and VVag—
nerT-to mention only a few. Episodes, anecdotes and hap-
penings, public and private, in the lives of these musi-
cians are so dramatically portrayed that in brief Space we
glimpse the individual personality traits and most sig-
nificant events in the life of each and discover the story
behind the composition of many a well-known piece of
music. In addition there is a chapter on the history of
mu51c and several on the stories [behind famous songs-—
songsoof the British Isles, Germany, France, Italy and
.America. Music groups will find this book valuable for
its succinctness, dramatic contrast and readability, and yet
anyone who picks it up will have difficulty in putting it
down before the end, whatever his musical background.

Magic Ring.

Edited by Ruth A. Brown. The Seven Seas Press,
1124 Detroit Bank Building, Detroit, Michigan. $2.75.

Magic RIng is a collection of poems hundreds of girls
have loved. Before it became a book Of poems it was a
poetry game played by the girls around their camp fires
and along their mountain trails. The 350 selections which
the book contains have been chosen with rare good taste
from the world’s 'best poetry, and there is also a section
colntaining a group of poems written by the girls them-
se ves.

All who love beauty will appreciate this delightful col-
lection which will do much to enrich the program of
camp assemblies and evening camp fires of Girl Scouts,
Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls and similar groups.

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEv, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice~President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
I‘IOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. \VILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, 1]].
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEv, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANOON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Phi'adelphia, Pa.

\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. \VADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINAN'r, Concord, N. H.

