 

Walking with Joseph Lee

No one could work side by side with Joseph Lee for a generation
and not feel his essential greatness.

He believed in simplicity and was simplicity itself.

One could not say he cared for truth. He was truth. Truth lay too
deep to be talked about.

Beauty was his passion. His face lighted up at its presence. his
every fibre responded, his whole body became eloquent.

Simplicity—truth—beauty— his next word was democracywto be
followed as always by education—education through living growth.

It was because Joseph Lee cared so much for democracy that he
wanted to help people to do for themselves rather than to do for them.
He did not like to think in terms of one class doing for another sort of
people, but of all working together for the good of all.

No one knew his own limitations better than he himself did. His
standards were so impossibly high that underneath was always a note
of sadness that he could not come up to them.

He was fearful of appearing other than he was ekcept perhaps
that he did not mind "playing dumb" sometimes when he was most wise.

Always with the note of sadness, simple joy, humor, lightness of
heart was ready to break through.

He sought nothing for himself.

He believed in acting now, in going "all out” for what was impor-
tant. Yet he had patience, if necessary, to wait for a thousand years. He
never lost faith in the educational process and in the ultimate course of

democracy.
One gave the best one had to Joseph Lee always.

A movement for life eternal, abiding, abundant—with pride, affec-
tion, loyalty——followed its leader.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

HAD Joseph Lee served for eight years in ordinary
times as president of the United States it is doubtful
whether he could have done as much for America
as in his more than quarter century of service as leader
in the recreation movement. '

Joseph Lee cared supremely for helping children,
young people and older people to find in their daily life ,
the greatest measure of enduring satisfaction.

H \\

He gave new meaning to the words “play, play-

grounds" and "recreation."

He added years to men's lives by what he did through

recreation. Yet he cared more for depth of life than
for length.

The world is an immeasurably happier place today
for children and for all because Joseph Lee devoted him-
self to the pursuit of happiness for others.

Boys and girls grow better when they are happy and
can be their best selves.

Many boys and girls have grown up with “never a
dull moment," as they have themselves put it, because of
playgrounds and recreation centers and other recreation
opportunities which Joseph Lee helped to bring into being.

 

Keeping Adventure

MAJOR PROBLEM is keeping real adventure in life. Routine, system belong to
the machine age. But monotony, routine are foreign to the nature of man.

   

Man has restless energy. He is a kind of animal that must have adventure,

excitement, romance. He must explore. He must conquer. He must show that he
has courage.

If he cannot get adventure.in his work, if his work is no longer hunting,

fishing, logging, but rather tending a machine, then in his free hours the adven-
ture must come.

A civilization that does not provide opportunity for adventure is not safe.
The urge, the energy will ultimately explode unless an escape valve is provided.

We care well for our machinery. We must care equally well for ourselves
-——for our fundamental needs as men. We have given, as everyone recognizes,
much more thought to the science of things, of atoms, of molecules than we have
to knowing ourselves, to knowing our inmost needs if we are to continue fully

to be men.

We know more and more about disease. We learn, comparatively speak-
ing, all there is to be known about the human body. We set aside in foundations
millions upon millions of dollars for medical research. How much have We set
aside as yet“ for giving thought to life itself, to the inner needs of man, to giving
attention to adventure, romance and all that feeds the human spirit? Life itself has
been neglected. Much attention has been given to man’s house, to man’s body, to
' his bread and his bed and his earning of a living, but cOmparatively little thought

to man himself as adventurer, explorer, creator, friend, as a human being.

“What does thy soul require of thee?” Birds must have air, fish water.

What does the soul of man require? Music and drama and human relations and

' the creation of beauty and Opportunity to adventure, to try to be courageous, to
keep growing.—-these things the soul of man doth require. For such things in
part is the kingdom of leisure given and for such things will a wise civilization
make provision. Why? That man may remain man and not be dried up by the

machine he did himself create.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

585

In January

Photo by Ray Losey, Roselle Park, N. J. (SEE PAGE 608 FOR DESCRIPTION)

586

 

  
    
     
    

ec reation—

EW MOVEMENTS in the entire cultural develop.-
n1ent of the American people have presented
a greater challenge to educators and leaders

social adjustment than the rapid growth in the

emand for recreational facilities and recreational
adership. No movement has come more out of

e social, economic, and cultural day-by-day needs

f the people and less from conscious promotion

y leaders than this spontaneous demand in every

eld of culture for organized activities capable of

I nriching life and giving immediate satisfaction.

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
    

The meaning of the word “recreation” has not
'panded as rapidly as its activity content. While
e connotation of the term has grown gradually
the public mind, it still lags far behind the
.ope of activities included in the program.

The question “Why do we educate?” has been
ked and answered by every people in every his-
rical period. Some have educated for the State,
5 is very definitely the case with certain totali-
rian states. Others have educated for the Church ;
ne periods have educated for the favored few,
1d some forpfticiency. It was left to the twenti-
h century to crystalize a phi1050phy of educa-
on which stressed the importance, well-being,
, (1 development of the individual. Herbert
* pencer expressed it as “education for complete
'ving.” John Dewey said, “Education is all one
. ith growth.” But no educator and no scientist
, as ever expressed it more clearly and more

I eaningfully than 'did the Great Teacher of Gali—
i e when He said: “I come that they might have
fe and that they might more abundantly have
.” This idea of the objective and aim of educa-
l on being to increase and enrich the activity, sat-
l faction, and life of the individual is basically be-
' 'nd the unprecedented demand for recreation.

    
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  

Achieving Satisfaction

Recreation, therefore, comprises all those ac-
vities which deliver to the individual an immedi-
' te cash value in satisfaction. They may be intel-

lectual, they may be social, they may be aesthetic

 

A Philosophy of Joyful Living

By HUGH M. WOODWARD

 

Dr. Woodward is Director, Division of
Recreation. Region V, Works Progress
Administration. This paper, he states.
is "an attempt to define the content
and boundaries of recreation in terms
other than isolated activitiesI and to
give some of the philosophicalI psy-
chological and ethical implications. as
well as its relation to the modern
movement of progressive education."

 

or they may be physical. They all come within the

meaning of recreation if they result in immediate
satisfaction.

With the crystalization of the concept that true
culture is to be able to live the richest, most color-
ful, and niost constructive life possible, the im-
portance of cultural activity which delivers an im-
mediate cash value in satisfaction is on the in-
crease. With the increase of activity which makes
for the rich life here and now the field of recre-
ation expands. Recreation might be'deflned, there-
fore, as including all those activities and responses
of the individual which are pursued for the satis-
faction which accompanies the activity or the re—
sponse. It is good recreation if the activities en—
gaged in result in increased capacity for increas—
ed enjoyment and satisfaction. It is bad recrea-
tion if the activities result in a lessening of the

individual’s capacity to enjoy certain other desir-
able satisfactions.

Certain philosophical, psychological, and ethical
conclusions have helped us to understand the
whole problem of recreation in its relation to

other fields of cultural development and in its
relation to life in general.

Since immediate satisfaction plays such an im-
pOrtant role in recreation, it is germane to ask

587

588 RECREATION—~14 PHILOSOPHY OF JOYFUL LIVING

what relation the concept
“satisfaction” has to other
primary concepts of intel-
ligence. If we were to ask
what are the primary con-
cepts of intelligence to
which all other concepts

can be reduced and out of
. which all other concepts
can be created —— concepts
so primary that they can-
not be explained in terms
of one another—we would
probably end,as many phi-
losophers have done, with the following list: Ex-
istence, Activity, Awareness, and Satisfaction. All
concepts in human thinking have as their common
denominators _one of these primary characteris-
tics of intelligence. All phases of being rest some
way on this concept of existence. Every phenom-
enon or thing in nature can be defined as some
form of activity in existent reality. On that char-
acteristic in intelligence which makes it aware of
itself and of its relations to other things the whole
world of observation, facts, judgment and knowl-
edge rests. But the world of values in every de-
partment of intelligence rests upon the character-
istic of satisfaction. Of all these primary charac-
teristics, satisfaction seems to be the most self-
sufficient.

The writer has asked literally thousands of
young people to name the thing they would pre-
fer to anything else in all the world. While the
answers vary according to specific things, a little
further questioning reveals the fact that they want
the particular things mentioned to increase their
satisfaction or happiness.

The “satisfaction” concept bears a like relation
to the other basic characteristics of intelligence. If
you pin the individual down to why he desires to
exist, he will eventually tell you it is because of
the satisfaction he gets out of existence. It is the
same with the desire to act or the desire to know.
They are pursued for the satisfaction they pro-
duce. But if you ask him why he desires satis—
faction, he can give you no other answer than that
he desires satisfaction because he enjoys satisfac-
tion. In fact, whenever the individual becomes

convinced that there is no more satisfaction in ex—'

istence, action or knowledge, he does not pursue
either of them further. In ‘other words, in the
concept of “satisfaction,” we have reached the
most basic characteristic of intelligence. “Man

"Leaders of recreation can render their great-
est service at present in making clear to the
public the content' scopeI boundaries and
spirit of the recreation movement. When the
general public' educators, municipal and state
officials come to think of recreation as a move-
ment to increase, organize' and make available
to all groups of society an ever-increasing
number of constructive activities designed to
give immediate satisfaction and make life richer
here and now, all necessary support will be spon-
taneous and enthusiastically offered. It will be
hailed as a program designed to bring about
the thing each individual consciously or uncon-
sciously desires—a way of rich and ioyful living."

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
   
   

exists that he might have
joy.” He acts for the sat-
isfaction he gets out of it.
He pursues knowledge for
the same reason, but he
wants satisfaction for no
other reason than that he
wants it.

Recreation might b
thought of as that part of
cultural development
which is struggling t
to make practical the ide
that “Man is that he migh
have joy”; that man exists, acts, and knows tha
he might have joy; that satisfaction or joy as fa
as human intelligence is concerned is the end of al
struggle in nature; that the greatest satisfaction,
happiness or joy to the greatest number consti-
tutes the standard by which human intelligence
measures the greatest good.

This is by no means a philosophy of hedonism
or a philosophy of physical pleasure. It recog-
nizes the fact that there are literally thousands of
satisfactions "physical, social, aesthetic, ' mental
and moral. The end which recreation seeks is an
effective combination and beautiful balance be-
tween all these possible satisfactions. Therefore,
he who would embrace the philosophy of recrea-
tion must be alert to the great variety of possible
satisfactions and wise in his selection that his life
might be rich, varied, and colorful but, at the same
time, poised and secure.

5

The Contribution of Psychology

Along with the philosophical contributions
which make plain the relation between the primary
characteristics of intelligence, psychology has con-
tributed a number of vital facts which help us to
clarify and understand the meaning of the recrea-
tion movement.

Psychology has answered' the question “When
does human intelligence experience satisfaction?” 0
The answer is that satisfaction always comes with.
a harmonious response to some phase of nature
either within or without the individual. It never
comes with a discord or with a conflict (which,l
parenthetically, means that recreation is esssend.
tially peace loving). Individuals, groups or na- '
tions at play never desire to destroy one another. I

Psychology has explained to us that happiness ,
is made up of satisfaction; that the greatest hap- ,-
piness is made of many intense satisfactions wisely

A I

l.

   
 
 
   

selected and properly coordinated; that the hap—
piness for which human intelligence struggles
must be extensive, intensive, and secure.

Psychology teaches that man extends his happi—
ness by increasing the number of satisfactions he
enjoys; that he increases the number of satisfac—
tions by increasing his ability to respond to more
and more aSpects of nature. The infinite variety
of things in the physical world to which one can
respond with satisfaction furnishes possibilities of
great increase in life. The aesthetic world of
beauty, color, shape, form, sound and harmony
‘provides unlimited possibilities for life enrich—
‘rnent. In the social world, he is fortunate who

knows and enjoys many friends, chums, and ac-
‘quaintances. The mental world is rich in satis-
faction which comes from knowing the secrets of
nature. In all these fields, the number of satis—
factions can be extended indefinitely.
Psychology has also helped us to understand
. that while we increase the extent of our satisfac—
.tions by extending the number of responses to
various phases of nature, we make our satisfac-
tion more intense as we learn to respond more ac—
curately to nature. The writer was once asked by
Chinese friend to dine and discuss philos0phy.
he friend served a dish which he claimed con-
ained something over twenty different flavors. It
vas his request that the writer distinguish each of
hese different flavors. It is
quite certain the Chinese
friend enjoyed his dinner
more than the average
_American who seldom
’knows what he has eaten.
'I In the world of music, the
individual who responds ac—
,«curately to the harmonies,
the overtones and combina-
tions of tones, enjoys a sat-
'isfaction far more intense
than the one who responds
slovenly. In the intellectual
world, the person who can
respond accurately to all the
details of a problem enjoys
a satisfaction which the
mediocre student never
knows.

In no place is the import-
ance of accurate' response
more evident than in the
social world. To some, a

 

The appreciafion of ’rhe beaufies of
nafure is one form of safisfacfion

 

RECREATION—A PHILOSOPHY OF JOYFUL LIVING 589

human being is just another individual; to others,
a person represents the most wonderful combina—
tion of energies and activities in all nature; others
see in a human soul the very depth of the uni-
verse, the essence of reality itself. Therefore,
some respond to human beings as individuals,
others as friends or chums, and some have the
capacity to love which means a perfect response
to the life of some other individual. Among all
the responses known to human intelligence, none
results in keener satisfaction than the harmonious
response between two rich lives whether they be
friends, chum's, or lovers. All the world loves a
lover-because he or she represents the greatest
note of harmony in all nature. '

Choosing Between Satisfactions

The one phase of recreation which has not re—
ceived much attention up to date and which is
destined to receive more in the future is the ques-
tion of enduring satisfaction or permanent hap—
piness. For this phase of the problem we must
draw our lessons from the world of ethics. We
have noted that happiness is made up of satis—
faction and that satisfactions are increased by in—
creasing our harmonious responses to nature; that
satisfactions are intensified by increasing the ac—
curacy of our responses. We have noted, too,

- that there are millions of possible responses; that

the ladder of human happi-
ness runs through satisfac—
tions of physical appetites,
passions and emotions, sat—.
isfaction of ownership of
physical things, satisfactions
of place, power and pres-
tige, aesthetic satisfaction,
social satisfaction and intel—
lectual satisfaction. There
are yet moral satisfactions
and satisfactions of mastery
which come from the ability
to maintain a perfect bal-
ance in all these satisfac-
tions, including a considera—
tion of the effect they have
upon the satisfactions of
others as well as upon one’s
self.

This phase of the prob-
lem appears in a vague way
in what we call “good
sportsmanship” in our

590 RECREATION-“~14 PHILOSOPHY OF JOYFUL LIVING

games, but it must extend much farther to a care-
ful consideration of the effects of our acts upon
the happiness of .all other people. This power to

check self-satisfaction for the sake of happiness
of others requires a mastery of the elements of
one’s entire nature. This ability to check, to
weigh, and to control one’s responses in consid—
eration of others furnishes one of the keenest
satisfactions known to human intelligence.

If all satisfactions ran parallel, the business of
building happiness or the enjoyable life would be
a simple problem. It would resolve itself into a
problem of increasing and intensifying each and
every satisfaction. However, this is not the- case.
Nature is not made up that way. Some of the
satisfactions run at cross purposes with others.
If you enjoy one, you must give up another.
Most satisfactions are capable of being indulged
to a point of dissipation where the individual’s
power to enjoy greater satisfaction is destroyed.

All satisfactions are good in and of themselves,
but considered in connection with other satisfac-
tions they are good only as they fit into that
combination of satisfactions which result in the
maximum happiness to the greatest number of
people. This necessity of choice and careful selec-
tion makes the problem much more complex.

The Master of Life must not only be able to
enjoy many and varied responses, he must also
be able to discriminate between, select and con-
trol his responses. He must be able to select from
the thousands of possible satisfactions in the phy-
ical, intellectual, aesthetic and social, those which,
when put together, will result in the greatest pos—

sible happiness. He will live‘ the cup of life up to ’

the full, but never allow it to spill over at any
point. He must be able to play the entire key—
board of satisfaction, but play each note in such
form as to result in a beautiful symphony.

It is this careful adjustment between the many
satisfactions of life, including their effect upon
others, that constitutes the moral problem. This

ethical phase, to some, may seemlforeign to the"

program of recreation, but the need of careful
discrimination and wise selection presents itself
at every point in the recreation program. An eve-
ning may be spent in the most intense satisfaction
and yet the individual may awake the next morn-
ing conscious that something valued and lovely has
gone out of his life. Satisfactions may be both
extensive and intensive and still not be secure.
The security of happiness lies in that fine balance

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

which many great philosophers have designate
as the “Golden Mean.”

The modern recreation movement is essentiall
pleasure giving. It should be constructive; it,i
necessarily peace loving, and has a decided be
toward humanism. It proceeds on the idea that
life richly lived today is perhaps the best prepa
tion for a satisfactory life tomorrow. It is wi
out doubt, in the mind of the writer, the m
outstanding of prOgrams emphasizing the imp
ance and possibility of making a life rather
making a mere living. Its activities are organi
on the theory that life should pay as it goes; t
the pay should be in the best coin of the real
extensive, intensive, and secure satisfaction
every active, appreciative, and conside
individual. ‘

The modern recreation movement (even as
is today with-its lack of organization and definit
placed responsibility) is still the nearest appro .
to a practical program for carrying into effect .
keeping alive a philosophy of happiness. In 3
ing this, the writer does not mean to minim
any other phase of education or cultural devel
ment. He simply means that the recreation mo
ment is emphasizing Specifically and immediate
that element in cultural development_-——-namel
activity for immediate enjoyment, which is close
allied to the objectives of modern progressi
education and which is a vital part of the twent
eth century aim of education: to build into ever
individual man, woman, and child, the ability an
capacity to live the richest, most beautiful, an a
most abundant life possible.

 

“Time, it is said, is the essence of things. B
leisure time, what of it? In the life of the ind
vidual is it to be regarded as made up of transie
stagnant interludes between periods of activit,
Or is leisure time but a gateway thru whi
‘dull care,’ frustration, ennui, and the forces -
darkness—legion in guise and form—shall ent
to warp and crush the human spirit? Leisure is
new heritage—the gift of the modern gods of tl '
industrial realm. The gift is parceled out he
with parsimony, there with ironic and unwant
prodigality, or again, perchance, with measur ,
nicety. It is a gift without intrinsic value. T
attain value such must be acquired. The gift .
not so endowed by original grant.”-——-Leyt0n A
Carter in A Study of Public Recreation in Clear
land.

0

l,
{

I

i r - 9

Photo by U. 5'. Forest Service

HE TREMEN-DOUS increase of National, State,
‘ TCounty and Municipal recreational develop-
ment in the last four years under the Emer-
' gency Conservation Corps has been paralleled by
the sharply mounting tide of recreationists using

'I our play areas. ‘

   
   

Increase in recreational travel has been so sud—
den and so heavy that it is evident that mass reali-
zation by the public of the inspirational values of
the outdoors has, become an established fact.
\‘Vhether this recreation be national or local in
scope, it offers opportunity for people to get into
the outdoors and make their own recreation with
the facilities available to them for camping, pic-
nicking, hiking or relaxation in the refreshing
A and inspirational open areas which nature has
. provided.

Preliminary to any discussion of this subject
l should be the consideration of the native values
’3 of Forest recreation, including the natural outlets
offered by forests. The twenty-three National
IIForests of the Intermountain Region, which in—

‘ ,.

 

Opportunities tor Recreation

in the

National Forests

By HAROLD L. CURTISS

Landscape Architect
U. 5. Forest Service

cludes those in Utah, Nevada, Southern Idaho and
Western Wyoming, are available to all who seek
the enjoyment of the out of doors. Hundreds of
lakes, conntless fishing streams, forest-clad or
grass-covered mountains, rolling range upon
range studded by jagged snow-covered peaks, all
rich in scenery, combine to offer recreational at-
tractions which compete with the best that
America has to offer. Wildlife is seen, both in its
abundance and variety, to compare favorably with
that of surrounding states.

Naturalness and Simplicity the Appeal

These natural outlets offered by the National
Forests form a definite contrast to other forms of
recreation. The fundamental recreational appeal
of these wild areas resides in their naturalness and
simplicity.

A basic principle of recreational planning and
the administration of recreation in the National
Forests, in keeping with their simplicity and nat-
uralness, is the avoidance of the unnecessary in-
troduction into the forest environment of develop—
ments or facilities which tend to despoil the nat-
ural and diminish the atmosphere of freedom,
open hOSpitality and unrestricted opportunity for
intimate communion with nature. This is what
we mean when we say that the National Forests
offer opportunity for people to get into the out
of doors and make their own recreation with the
facilities available to them.

Those of you today who are directly connected
with the planning and development of park areas
know from your experience in the last few years

591

592 OPPORTUNITIES FOR RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL'FORESTS

i

that public recreation is becoming one compre-
hensive program embracing requirements bound
to exist in all types of recreation areas. All of us
here can think back within our lifetime when these
wonderful playgrounds which are so much in use
today were altogether too remote for a generation
which did not have the automobile. All this has
been changed, however, by the introduction of this
method of transportation, and people are now
finding the beauty of unspoiled country and the
real thrill of being in the out of doors; in short,
they are really finding out what outdoor recrea-
tion means.

In any discussion of the natural outlets and
native values of Forest recreation, We readily see
that one important phase of the planning and de-
velopment is directed towards making certain def-
inite areas more accessible and more usable for
the purpose for which they are being developed.

National Forests, State Forests and State Parks
are year by year becoming increasingly important
in the entire recreational picture, because they of-
fer outdoor recreation for millions of persons in
a readily accessible, unregimented, inexpensive
manner.

Primitive Areas Offer Recreation

Not 'all of the recreational areas in the Inter-
mountain Region are being made accessible, how-
ever, for the Forest service has definitely desig-
nated as Primitive Areas four tracts of forest
lands that have a total area of 2,034,992 acres.
These four areas range in size from 138,000 acres
to 1,087,744 acres, the latter being the Idaho
Primitive Area in the remote and practically un-
civilized portion of Central Idaho south of the
Salmon River and embracing some of the best
trout fishing water and some excellent mountain
scenery.

This iS'one phase of Forest recreation that must
be preserved for those who seek the wilderness
areas, those who would go back to the primitive
beginnings of the race and find some communion
with nature that is not possible under the tense
conditions of modern Urban life.

Recreation with Minimum
Restrictions Mr. CurtissI

At this point let: us place em-
phasis on the simple, appropri—
ate, unregimented, low-cost rec—
reation available for masses of
the rank and file, with restric—

I 7th at the

: cabin camps and similar modern commercial ac

who
with Region 4, U. 5. Forest Ser-
viceI with headquarters at Ogden,
Utah' gave this paper on March
district conference
of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation at FresnoI California.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

tion of use and enjoyment held to a minimum
The privilege of personal use of the Nationa
Forests by recreationists, practically free fron
regimentation, is extended to all. No monetar
charge is imposed for camping, picnicking, hik
ing and fishing. Nominal annual fees for special
exclusive use of tracts for summer homes 0
private camps, and reasonable charges for com
mercial enterprises, such as inexpensive .hotels

commodations, are the only charges.

Limitation on freedom and recreational use t
a small extent is unavoidable, and the maintenanc
of simplicity is not always entirely possible. Thi
is true, however basically desirable it may be t
provide the maximum simplicity and economy
Why is this so? Because the presence of larg
numbers of persons within the National Forest
during the delightful vacation weather whic
characterizes the summers and early falls in th
Intermountain territory introduces hazards whic
must be rec0gnized and dealt with in a positiv
manner. The entrance of many persons pleasure
bound creates potential risks to public health an
property. It is these risks for the welfare of the
recreationists themselves, and the preservation 0
clean Forest environment, that must be minimize
at all hazards.

Recreational use on the National Forests shows
a sharply mounting tide of recreationists. Our
combined figures show that in 1936 almost
71,000,000 people visited or passed through them.
About 24,000,000 of these people actually used .
National Forest recreation opportunities. This is
by far the heaviest year of summer travel in our '
history.

The fact that the National Forests are charac-
terized by multiple purpose management and wide
range. of recreational uses gives greater emphasis
to the need of meeting the requirements set up by
such a tremendous influx of recreationists.

Efforts in this direction call for the providing
of sanitation and water protection facilities at
points of concentration. Application of fire pre-
vention measures is also required. Included in
such safeguards are the instal—
lation of enclosed spring boxes
and underground water tanks_
and water systems, fly—proof' }
comfort stations, garbage dis— '.
posal pits and garbage cans, and !'
outdoor fireplaces, tables and I‘-
benches. These, together with'fi

.\

E1

 

is associated I

   

i. safeguards

automobile roads and parking spaces, are facilities
provided to serve people on tracts of special
charm. Such improvements are planned by men
skilled in determining the particular types of
architectural design most appropriate to natural
aspects and the scenic values.

All deve10pments are conceived and executed
with the idea of harmonizing the structures with
the environment, of making them {it into it rather
than violating it. Our Forest development roads
where provided are constructed with the same
object in mind. They are conceived and executed
with the idea that it is not the special camp or
picnic ground or road that constitutes the attrac-
tions, but rather the entire surrounding Forest
areas that hold the charm. Improvements merely
facilitate and extend the environment of the Na—
tional Forests and make it more secure and safe.

Forms of Recreation Offered

Recreation is found in a great variety of ac-
tivities, each individual seeking the kind and the
location which best suits his fancy. Some people
wish to camp and rest, others seek the fisherman’s
paradise, while still others visit the forests for
their inspiration and for the opportunity for the
study of nature and its magnificent handiwork.

In effect, recreation demands exclusive use on
but very limited areas which are devoted to camp-
grounds and resorts. These areas, as compared to

the large size of the, Na—
tional Forests of the
West, are insignificant.
Thus, with this small ex-
ception, National Forest
recreation can continue
to flourish and expand
along with grazing, tim-
ber production, water-
sheds and wildlife. Rec-
reation fits into the pic—
ture of multiple use easi-
ly and smoothly, and
under proper manage-
ment and with proper

Opportunities for camp-
ing and picnicking abound
in National Forest areasI
and everywhere adequate
prevaiL

I"
(a:



l

OPPORTUNITIES FOR RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS

Photo by U. 3. Forest Service

593

understanding should not suffer from the other
uses to which the forests are devoted.

Multiple use of land means its use, simultane-
ously, for watersheds, timber growing, grazing.
mining, fish and game protection and recreation.
These uses, when properly integrated and adjusted,
can be had without coniiict with each other. For
example, watersheds in the Forest Service policy
of sustained yield and adequate fire protection are
amply' safeguarded, although timber utilization
and grazing may be taking place. Obviously, rec-
reation, timber production and watershed uses go
hand in hand with wildlife.

The Forest Service is advocating “Game Man-
agement” at every opportunity. This is nothing
more or less than the method used in Range Man-
agement in keeping the number of animals ad-
justed to the amount of range available. This
means that game animals must be protected and
that additional winter range must be provided
when necessary. There is no logic in producing
large numbers of game and allowing the surplus
to die of old age, disease or lack of food.

The “Landscape Viewpoint”

There are many of you here today who are
charged with the responsibility of actual planning
and development of the various recreation areas,
both municipal, state and national. In this work
of planning there is a growing emphasis being

        

594 OPPORTUNITIES FOR RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS

placed upon the importance of the landscape view-
point. The foremost thing that we look for in the
men who are employed to do this technical plan-
ning is their ability to appraise landscape values.
The graduates of good courses in landscape archi-
tecture are proving themselves able to contribute
to the Forest Service in helping to solve the vital
problems of land planning and the important valu-
ation of scenery.

In the development of these mountainous recre—
ation areas the landscape is the dominating prob-.
lem and the principles of landscape architecture
apply with particular force. Building locations,
roads, trails, parking spaces-—-in short, all con—
struction directly affects the landscape, and what
is done to it vitally affects the character and suc-
cess of the recreational development. The design
of our small recreational structures must be care-_
fully considered, for the cumulative effect infiu-
ences the landscape.

The point of compromise between these two
fundamental policies, between the protection of
the wilderness atmosphere and the Opening of
these areas to travel is important to you who are
developing your natural playgrounds. As we have
said before, the greatest charm of the National
Forests is the unspoiled intimacy of the landscape.
To maintain this quality is the aim of the Forest
Service.

Our function then is that of keeping all of the
natural beauty unspoiled and at the same time
making it accessible to the recreation-minded. We

seek to provide roads, trails and buildings in "such, ._

a way that they will efficiently serve their purpose
in a practical manner, and yet be as inconspicuous
as possible. To do this we are interested in apply-
ing the lessons learned in earlier days on other
Forests in neighboring states and regions. We
seek to be constantly alert to advancing trends in
recreation Work.

Making Automobiles Safe for Our Forests!

For one thing, the automobile must be restricted
to definite parking areas instead of being allowed
to run promiscuously throughout a Forest camp.
Otherwise, the camp and picnic areas are soon
ruined. Trees are barked, the delightful herbace-

recreation areas in the past than has the indis-
criminate use of the automobile. Accordingly, good
practice has been to confine the auto to either defi-
nite parking spaces, if in a picnic ground, or to
definite short parking spurs, if in a campground.
These are then enforced by erection of suitable
types of barriers around the parking areas and oc-
casionally along the drives.

The planning and arrangement of the camp-
ground road systems and parking areas are sec-
ondary only to the planning of a Forest road sys
tem itself. They must be arranged so as to serv
the areas efficiently, and yet be kept in the back—
ground and as much out of sight as‘ possible from
areas of heaviest concentration of people.

When a Forest recreation plan for the develop-
ment of a campground or picnic area or resort is
received at the Regional Office for reviewing, the
first thing that the landscape architect examines is
the manner in which the plan proposes to handle
this problem of auto traffic.

The efficient parking area of today is a herring-
bone system which provides diagonal parking on
both sides of a central line with an entrance at
one end and an exit at the other. Its main over-
all width is 60 feet and its length is such as to
provide ten cars per 100 feet of length on each
side of the area. Where space permits only park-
ing on one side of a main road, the width of the
area should be 40 feet outside of the edge of the
shoulder itself. This provides diagonal parking
space of 15 feet plus a 20-foot space in which to
back out, turn and proceed forward into the traf-
fic lane of the highway without backing into the
traffic on the highway itself. '

This problem of handling automobiles is an
everyday one to those of you who are dealing
with public recreation.

The Landscape Architect at Work

In undertaking any problem, the landscape
architect begins with the selection of locations
which will not tear up the landscape and which
will not obtrude into the important views. He
studies the design of proposed improvements with
the idea in mind of using native materials in such

 

   

a way as to harmonize the structures with theirl

ous shrubs and young growth are mashed down ,
surroundings.

I
and destroyed; the grass is rutted and soiled with 1'

oil drippings, and the next visitors find only an
uninviting barren camp where once all was natural
beauty. It has been truly said that apart from
fire no single agency has done more damage to

The general scheme of development having been
decided upon, there is then made a master plan on -.
which chart is outlined all future construction
work. This master plan may be for a whole for- .V ‘

 

   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  

st or it may be for a single campground, depend-
ing upon the problem.

Following this is the designing of the individual
'tems, buildings, roads, trail layouts, parking
reas, playground facilities, and bridges. These

f considerable range and extent in forest rec-
eation.

The problems of landscape architecture range
from comprehensive land use planning, covering
ntire forests, to the design and construction of
camp stoves and fireplaces, and they challenge all
the resources of vision and technical knowledge
necessary in a wide range of intelligent planning.

In order to make outdoor life of greater prac-
- tical benefit to the public, our facilities and ser—
vices must be of a more permanent character. We
have abandoned the “twig” and “peanut brittle”
type of architecture in favor of an orderly pro-
gram of development of permanent buildings of
.heavy logs or timbers, shevlin log siding or stone.

In other words, we use structural elements which
will both be structurally sound and also in har-
mony with the steep slopes and rugged topography
of the mountain country.

‘ The recreational planner realizes in National

Forest work that next to the natUral features of

a forest, buildings, bridges and other architectural

structures are the most conspicuous units in the

landscape. —
If our purpose in making recreational areas ac-
cessible and of practical benefit to the public is
that of preserving them in as nearly a natural
£state as possible, then these structures must be
designed with an eye to lessening their importance.
: In order to do this, horizontal lines and a low sil—
houette should predominate. We should avoid
gverticality. The roofs should be of low pitch, ex—
cept where high altitudes bring heavy snows. Too
.' often .the roofs - predominate in the natural
4‘ picture.

l Facilities to Be Considered

1 There are a number of different facilities en-
tering into our recreational developments on the
National Forests of the Intermountain Region.
‘ These include, in addition to the road systems out-
“ lined above, the following:

3 Comfort Stations. both pit, chemical and flush
i' Itypes. \Ne are standardizing on the two-unit and
'four-unit types, and the trend, I believe, will be
.towards separate buildings for men and women.

 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS 595

These comfort stations are usually located so that

no camp or picnic spot is more than 300 feet from
the building.

Campground shelters and observation shelters

Community bonfire circles

Community amphitheaters of rustic logs and
stone. These are found only on a few of the
larger close—in picnic grounds which are close to
the larger centers of population.

Adequate water system including piped water
from developed springs, hydrants so placed that
no camp is more than 200 feet from one, drinking
fountains constructed both of stone and log.

Rustic toot bridges and road bridges built of
heavy logs with stone abutments.

Simple playground apparatus such as rustic
swings and teeters, on the close-in picnic areas
only.

Wading pools occasionally constructed on the
picnic grounds close to the larger centers of popu-
lation. These are small naturalistic—shaped shal-
low pools of water 25 to 40 feet in length with
adjacent sand box.

Signs and Forest boundary portals. Every avenue
of approach to each Forest road unit is being
marked by an appropriate portal or boundary sign.
Highways and trails are being judiciously and ap-
propriately marked with recreational feature and
points-of—interest signs of attractive design and
workmanship. The construction of these signs,
which are built of logs and heavy lumber, consti-
tute together with that of log picnic tables, one
of the most important work projects of the CCC
camps during the winter months.

Roadside developments including parking spaces
at observation points, roadside fountains, etc.

Winter sports. Winter sports are receiving in—
creasing attention on the part of the Forest Ser-
vice, and we have a number of fine ski jumps and
slalom courses under construction in the Inter-
mountain Region. In charge of the layout and
construction of these winter sports we have in
our employ a man thoroughly qualified in every
respect—Alf Engen, present holder of the Na-
tional Amateur Ski Championship.

In conclusion, we have shown above that by
careful planning in advance of the actual con—
struction, there is being carried out on a wide
front in the twenty—three National Forests of
these four states a comprehensive integrated, cor—
related program of development which will make

forest outdoor life of increasingly practical bene-
{it to the public.

A Forest Festival

NCE EVERY. year thousands
O of people flock to Elkins,
West Virginia, to Wit-

ness the coronation of a simple
maid as Queen of the Mountain State Forest Fes—

tival. This year, during the three days of the.

festival, a careful check of motor vehicles and ex-
cursion trains entering the city indicated more
than 100,000 people in attendance. The festival,
which has been held for eight years, has as its aim
the conservation of forests, stream and wild life,
and it has been instrumental in bringing to the
attention of the people of the eastern portion of
the United States the rich recreational advantages
of the friendly mountains of West Virginia.

The coronation of the Queen, followed by an
original pageant, is always the high spot of the
celebration. Every detail is carefully worked out
months in advance. The whole community works
together towards a common objective. ‘Sixty com-
mittee chairmen select an average of ten commit-
tee members representing all local organizations
such as churches, schools, civic, veteran and fra-
ternal organizations. and national and state agen—
cies such as Monongahela National Forest, State
Department of Agriculture, State Conservation
Commission, U. S. Soil
Conservation Service,

 

By F. ELLWOOD ALLEN
Research Technician

United States Forest Service

Wood chopping and sawing contests are features
of the program on the second day of the festival

U. S. Park Service, Civilian
Conservation Corps, National
Youth Administration, VVPA,
etc. All services are unpaid an
the necessary preparations are made and perform»
ed when the occasion demands.

It was my privilege this year to witness thi
splendid community achievement for the first time
and to hear the Governor of the state of \Nes
Virginia intone the Queen’s impressive obligation.
Every' person in the vast audience could conscien-
tiously subscribe to the words addressed specifi-
cally to the simple maid, kneeling before him:
“Do you promise to uphold the traditions of the
Mountain State Forest Festival, to look upon our
West Virginia hills for sustenance, beauty and in-
spiration, to uphold and promote all means of
preservation of wild life, of forest and stream, to
foster reforestation of mountains, to aid in main—
taining the purity of streams, to protect our prec-
ious minerals in which we have great wealth, to
proclaim the prodigious grandeur of West V ir-
ginia hills and to rule this eighth Mountain State
Forest Festival with gaiety, comeliness and grace ?"

“I do,” answered Maid Sylvia.

“It is now my pleasure to place upon your head
this symbol of royalty.
T0 the wonders of nature ‘

(Continued on page 620)

 

 

I it up, mend it if you
ll must, but be ready to

“l

ET OUT your heart, polish

wear it gayly on your sleeve on
St. Valentine's Day—the day
when Cupid must be féted
with a joyous party and val-
entines to old loves and new!

Invitations. Old things in the
old way often fit best for Val-
entine’s Day. If you want a
party full of romance, old
loves and quiet gayety, send
out old-fashioned invitations
with lace paper and ribbons
and forget-me-nots and per-
haps an invitation to come in old-fashioned cos-
tume or disguised as a famous lover. If the party
is to be a smart, modern one, comic old-time val-
entines will set a gayer, more rollicking mood
when made into-invitations and used as decorations.

Decorations. The decorations, too, will need to
fit the old-time theme. Red and white are St.
Valentine’s colors and you will find that cupids,
paper forget-me-nots, pictures of famous lovers,
and, most important of all—~hearts—may be used
in any number of ways. It will be fun to see how
ingenious you can be. You might start by pasting
two or more long strips of red crépe paper to-
gether, fastening them to a cardboard heart frame
(made of pieces pasted together) and then putting
the giant heart up so that it completely covers the
doorway. Cut a jagged and ragged opening in the
center, reaching not quite to
the floor, through which the

 

Of course there will be a

names to the girls. Each must
find his partner. If the group
is not likely to know many of
the historical and literary char-
acters, use the simpler, more
commonly known ones, as
Micky and Minnie Mouse,
Jack and Jill, Adam and Eve,
with duplicates, or else use a
poster with the list of lovers
printed in large letters. Tack
'it on the wall so each may Hnd
the name of his lover if he
does not know it.

Hearts Are Trumps. Give
each guest ten beans and four
or five cards bearing red hearts. These may be
from decks of cards or pieces of paper made
to look like cards. In addition to hearts there are
several queens of spades. Partners score in pairs
although they may buy and sell separately. When
you say “go,” buying and selling begins, each pair
or individual attempting to buy high cards and
sell low cards. Exchange is “sight unseen,” so
that the buyer does not see his purchase until it is
paid for. Blow your whistle at intervals. Part-
ners then rush to hnd each other and total their
two hands. Any couple with black cards must put
four beans in the “pot,” which the highest scoring
hand receives. Continue for several rounds, then
give a grand prize to the couple with the most
beans and the one which scored the highest hand
in hearts during the game.

To My Valentine. Line
guests up, in couples in relay

a on this
P W formation. There should be

guests can step into the party
room. If they should tear it
a little more in so doing, it
does not matter. The open-
ing was intended to be jagged.

Who Are You? Your guests
may be Mary Jones and Tom
Brown in real life, but at a
valentine party they cannot
be anyone so prosaic. Give
each guest the name of a
famous lover in history or
llCtiOI], giving men’s names
to the boys and women’s

festive day! It has been a "must" with
young people ever since Chaucer's time
—perhaps even from old Roman days. In
those remote times names were drawn
by chance from an urn on February |4th
and couples so matched became valen-
tines or sweethearts for a year. They ex-
changed presents and the young men
performed services for their partners as
did the medieval knight for his lady.
Though many things have changed since
those olden times. on at least one day
each year time turns back and youth.
unabashedI hangs up hearts and red and
white streamers and freely admits the
supremacy of Cupid and romance!

no more than five couples in
each team lined up Indian
file, girls behind the boys.
When you say “go,” the
leader of each team dashes
to a large sheet of wrapping
paper on the wall (or floor)

‘ at the other end of the room

and draws with crayon one
part of a valentine— proba-
bly a heart or rectangular
shape. The next in line adds
one thing—perhaps an arrow.

597

.598 ST. VALENTINE’S DAY IS COMING!

the next something else. Give the first team to
finish a prize. The team with the most attractive
or original valentine deserves one, too. Give each

team a minute or two to plan the valentine before .

the race begins, if you like, with the assigning of
“parts” for each team by the team leader. Valen-
tines should be at least a foot or two in length.
Arrows, lace edges, bluebirds, cupids, valentine
greetings, flowers and small hearts can all be
added to a basic heart or rectangular card shape
or the valentine can be a modern or comic one.

Batting the Heart Around. Give the leader of
each team an infiated red balloon. When you say
“go,” he starts to the far end of the room batting
it with his hand. Balloons, like footballs. have
tricks of their own. It will not be so easy as the
participants think. When the balloon hits the far
wall, the batter seizes it and carries it back to the
second player who starts batting it. Prizes go to
the first two or three winning teams. Three sizes
of candy hearts will be sufficient reward, the
largest for the first team, of course.

St. Valentine's Heart. Seat the guests in a circle
with one who is. to be leader standing in the cen-
ter. The seated guests are numbered off. The
leader says, “St. Valentine has lost his heart. Did
you hnd it, Number 4, Sir?” Number 4 jumps
to his feet and says, “Who, Sir? I, Sir?”

Leader. “Yes, Sir, You, Sir.”

Number 4. “No, Sir, Not I, Sir.”

Leader. “Who then, Sir ?”. a

Number 4. “Number .. . ., Sir” (calling any
player's number.)

The person whose number was called starts
where Number 4 did, saying, “Who, Sir? 1, Sir?”
and the dialogue continues with Number 4 the
leader. Any mistake causes the player to be out of
the game. If the leader makes an error the one
with whom he was conversing becomes leader and
starts again, saying, “St. Valentine has lost his
heart,” and so on. The last player in the game
wins. I f the grOUp is very large, divide it into
two sections to play this game. A little rehearsal
will start this game off quickly and you find it a
gay one if played rapidly. He who hesitates is
lost—hand must drop out. The game need not be
played to the end if doing so will drag it out too
long. Give prizes to those left ‘in the game when
you stop it.

Loirers' Art Gallery. Divide the group up into

small groups of five or six guests at a party for
thirty or less, and into groups of ten for a larger

     
   
 
 
 
    
 

party. \Nrite the names of a pair of famous lovers
on a piece of paper. Artists elected from each
group come up to you, look at the names and dash
back to their groups. Each draws the lovers
whose names he has seen on your paper. He may
use no letters or numbers, may answer only “yes”
and “no” by nodding his head. When anyone in
the group thinks he knows the names, he calls
them out. The artist may have to make several
sketches to portray his lovers. He may make a
note of music or draw a book to indicate whether
the lovers are in a song or a book or may sketch
any other identifying objects which will help.
\Nhen the lovers are discovered, another artist is
selected in each group and the game proceeds as I
before. It is fun to exchange drawings to see the
different ways of interpreting the lovers. Mickey
and Minnie Mouse, Punch and Judy, Priscilla and
John Alden, Romeo and Juliet, Hiawatha and Min-
nehaha, Paris and Helen are but a few of the
possibilities. You may or may not give prizes for
winning.

What Is There in Matrimony? Turn the artists’
drawings over and give each group five minutes
to write down all the words they can think of
which may be made out of the word “matrimony.”
Check the longest list to make sure all the words
are in use and none are repeated. They will find
there is quite a lot more in matrimony than they
thought.

Whom You Should Marry. Ask the groups to
call out the girls whom the following men should
marry:

Humorist—Sally
Doctor—Patience
Fisherman—Nettie
Sexton—Belle
Farmer—Tillie

Furniture dealer—SOphie
Architect—Bridget
Chemist—Ann-Eliza
Athlete—Laura

Garage man—Ethel
Florist—Rose, Lily,
Violet, etc.

Bell-ringer—Nell
Horse racer—Betty
Minister—Mary
Cobbler—Peggy

_ Dancer—Grace
Realtor—Lottie
Lawyer—‘Nilma

"Love is Blind." “Love is Blind,” they say; so
to see how blind, give one person in each group a 
large paper bag—size 20, if you ask a grocer for
it. “Scrunching” it in around the neck will
keep the blind lover from looking down his nose
at the floor. The rest of the group forms a circle ;
about the blindfolded person. Scatter three or
totir paper hearts on the fioor within the circle.
W hen you blow your whistle, each group tries to i
tell its blind lover where to go to put his foot on .‘..
a heart, but they may not touch him. As soon as .3

he steps on a heart it is removed, and he is guided \Q.
A:

   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
     
  
   
 
  
  
 
     
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  

by verbal directions to the Second and third and
0 on. The first to find his way to the four hearts
vins a prize for himself and his helpers.

Breakng Your Heart. Now select two boys. Tie
: balloon on the back of each by strings around
heir waists. Give each a roll of newspaper as a
‘lub. Each tries to break the other’s heart. If
his seems liable to be too rough or vigorous a
ame for your party, select six boys and girls (or
everal of each) to see who can break a heart the
uickest by blowing up a balloon until it breaks.

Rivals. Cut a strip of paper—preferably wrap-
ing paper because of its strength-——about twelve
eet long. This may be done by pasting shorter
ections together. The strip should be three to
four inches wide. Find the middle and paste a
. arrow red ribbon or draw a red mark across it.
Paste a few small hearts down each strip, placing
the same number in the same relative position on
each side of the center. On “go” two girls start cut—
ing their way to the center or the “man.” When
hey come to a heart they must cut it out neatly
efore they can go on. The first to the center is
ueen of Hearts. Now do the same with the boys.
I he winner is the King of Hearts. These two are
nthroned in state and act as judges for the next
ame.

Famous Lovers. Divide the group up into smaller
roups of five-or six if the party is a large one,
nd into couples if it is a small one. Give each
group or couple the names of a pair of famous
vers and allow them five or six minutes to work
_ ut a skit portraying that couple. They may use
ords or not as they choose. Other groups try
0 guess. The King and Queen of Hearts award
rizes for the two cleverest skits.

Knights of Old. In' olden times knights did great
eeds to prove their worth. While dragons can-
ot be brought to the party, you can pit the boys
gainst each other: in the ring before the ladies.
elect eight or nine girls and provide each with a
owny feather from the chicken yard or borrow—
a from a pillow. (Dye the feathers red if you
n———or use white ones.) Each girl gives a feather
5 her “colors,” to a man of her choice. At the
ther end of the room opposite the boys, who line
p side by side but two or three feet apart, is a
‘ ring strung across the room about five feet from
, e floor. From it hang eight or nine heart
L ames, one for each boy. On “go” each tries to
low his feather through his heart. He may not
uch the feather with his hands, except when it

I

ST. VALENTINE’S DAY IS COMING! 599

has touched the floor. He may then lift it to the'
level of his mouth and start it up again.

Valentines. Some time during the party there
must be valentines. Perhaps you will tell the
guests to bring one as a ticket to Romance or you
may give the guests ten minutes to make them
from material at hand. Cut out a number of card-
board hearts of various sizes for patterns and have
crayons, red and white paper, lace paper doilies,
ribbon, pencils, paste and scissors available. Large
groups will not be able to do this easily unless
broken up into smaller groups who make a group
valentine from materials you provide. Distribute
the valentines from a post office, a box, or have a
Paul Jones in which couples exchange valentines.

"Let Us Be Dancing." Use any of_the play party
games (really dances) and square dances de-
scribed in The Barn Dance Returns * or in The
Square Dance—A Social Recreation Aid by G. H.
Harrison in the September 1937 issue of RECREA-
TION. Try the Virginia Reel or Pop Goes the
Weasel as a stunt, even if your party is mainly
devoted to social dancing.

Social Dance Games. Your valentine party may
be a dance, and for older boys and girls this will
be more than likely the most popular kind of
party. But a game or two chosen from those
mentioned, a square dance and a few songs will
make the party more interesting.

You can make ordinary dances novel and fes-
tive by introducing social dance games in keep-
ing with the theme. Announce a Balloon Dance.
Tie a balloon on the wrist of every girl or on her
ankle. If you tie it on her ankle, provide 18 inches
of string so that there is no danger of her being
stepped on. Each couple attempts to preserve its
heart while attempting to break others. When a
heart is broken the couple owning it must leave
the floor. Give a prize to the owners of the last
heart on the floor. Heart Numbers is another
dance game. Give each person a numbered heart.
There should be several duplicates of each num-

’ ber. When the music stops the leader calls out a

number. All persons with that number must leave
the floor. This may leave several boys or girls
without partners dancing. They couple up or
dance alone until another number has been called
which leaves them a partner. Unlucky Valentine
does not eliminate couples from the floor. A
sturdy valentine is made and the dancers pass it

 

* National Recreation Association. $.15.

(Continued on page 621)

Some Sports and Their Development

N AMUSING contrast to our
I complicated modern method

of conferring political
plums, stands the far simpler
and apparently entirely satis—
factory system of the ancient
Persians. They merely picked
as their highest officials the
men who could play the best
game of polo! In the army as
well, which consisted almost entirely of cavalry,
no officer was promoted who could not demon-
strate skill in the game.

When the United States was founded no such
political plans came up for consideration, for the
game of polo was not known in the English speak—
ing world until 1869, although it had been the en-
tertainment of the Far East since flve hundred
years before Christ.

Persia the Birthplace of Polo

The first polo game of which there is any rec-
ord was played in the sixth century, B.C., but
obviously the sport was well—established, for the
game was played by Persian ladies with four on
a side, mounted on finely bred ponies and using
mallets_similar to our modern ones.

One of the greatest Persian polo players was
King Shapur, a member of the strong Sassanian
dynasty. Before Shapur’s birth his mother had
fallen into disfavor with her husband, King Arda-
shir, so that the\King was not told that he had an
heir. Shapur was raised as befltted a prince, with-
out being aware of hisstation, and when he was
grown to a man’s stature his father was told
about him. The old King’s heart burst with pride
at the'knowledge, but to prove the lad he ordered
that he should play in a polo game before the
court. This Shapur did, and his father was at
once able to recognize the Prince by his skill and
daring. From then on, he was given an honored

place at court, and when old
Ardashir died he ruled in his

By AGATHA VARELA
Washington. D. C.

With this account of the origin and
development of the game of polo we
complete the series of articles on
the history of_a number of sportsI
the first two of which appeared in
the October and November issues.

Christian maiden, Shireen.
Through her life, the King re-
mained faithful to her alone
and built her a gorgeous pal-
ace at Ctestiphon, decorated
by artists from all over the
world, adorned by rich and
rare tapestries, mosaics and
marbles. Upon the green slope
of the garden of this wonder
land, the beautiful Shireen with her attendants,
looking, as one Persian poet described' her, “like
the moon playing with her stars,” would often
match themselves in a polo game against the King
and his courtiers.

From Persia to China

At about the time that Chosroes and Shireen
were playing their idyllic games, polo was being
carried by wild invading hordes east from Per-
sia, the land of its birth, across Central Asia to
China. There as ,well the game seems to have
struck the fancy of the rulers, and polo came to
play a large part in court life. The emperors
themselves played and required their high'officials

to play also. When the oldest and weakest would '
fall from their ponies with exhaustion, the em- ‘

peror would roar with laughter and the empress
and her ladies would clap their hands in glee. Yet
the game of the rulers themselves could never be
criticized. One of the emperors went so far as to
have an important statesman beheaded for daring
to make tactless remarks about His Majesty’s
manner of playing. Another died from an illness
which seized him while playing. There was still
another emperor who was playing one day when
his pony bolted under the eaves of a very low

veranda, and left his Imperial Majesty hanging -

 

there clutching the roof frantically. When low- l

ered gently to the ground, his wary courtiers per-
ceived that the distressing incident had in no way
injured His Majesty’s good

 

humor,'so with the innate sense
of the fltness of things that all 
courtiers possess, they per-

ceived that a cheer was appro- .
priate. Throwing back their!
heads and drawing deep‘r

(Continued on page 622) U

9,
ll

"ln spite of the monopoly of polo by
the West today, travelers in the East
tell us that the rude. primitive in-
habitants of the hill countries of
southern Asia still play the ruthlessI
desperate game which their nomadic
ancestors had brought from the courts
of Persia some l.200 years ago."

stead.

The most romantic setting
for any of the ancient Persian
games was the court of Chos-
roes II. This King fell in love
with and married a beautiful

600

   
   
 
 

 

Engineering—Material and Human

HAVE BEEN wandering around
I the offices this morning in a
sort of mental restlessness,
wondering how to get started/0n

- this story. After it gets

going, I know it will tell
itself. The only difficulty
is to hit the take-off
board.

You see, it’s to be a
story about my boss, the
General Superintendent,
so it must needs be rea»
sonany dignified. On the
other hand, it’s a story
about a friend and pal to
whom we are all devoted,
every one who knows
him, and you just can’t
be solemn and statistical
if you are to make a liv-
ing picture of anyone as
vital and many-sided as
George Donoghue. His
driving energy, his spar-
kling wit, his instant
sympathy and "ready in-
sight into any situation
which may arise, give
him a sort of living flu-
idity without which any portrait would fail in its
intended portrayal.

In his student days at the University of Illinois
School of Engineering he achieved the nickname
of Tim. Despite his present dignity as General
Superintendent of the Chicago Park District, he
loses nothing of respect because his subordinates
think of him and even address him as George. In
familiar, and even in most official conversation,
he calls us by our first names or nicknames. He
has that quality of putting a person on terms of
easy and familiar friendliness almost on first ac-
quaintance, but quite certainly on a second or
third meeting. That faculty is worth mentioning
here because it is significant of a personality and
attitude at once sincere and genuine. There is a
homespun sort of friendliness of spirit which
always characterizes those folks with whom one
finds it easy to get acquainted. That character—

By V. K. BROWN.

Chief, Recreation Division
Chicago Park District

 

GEORGE DONOGHUE

istic isn’t always associated with
ability in other directions. It isn’t
by any means common among men
who possess also a genius for pre-
serving discipline in an
organization. But when a
man can mount to high
executive responsibility,
and still retain that sort
of approachability, surely
it is worth mentioning
as proving that he has
something “on the ball.”
And in George Donog-
hue’s case it deserves
mention as an index to
the amazing versatility
which is one of his out-
standing qualities.

For as a student in II—
linois Tim Donoghue was
'specializing in a study of
engineering, with its em-
phasis on mathematics,
the calculation of loads
and stresses, structural
supports and braces, and
all of those other techni~
'calities which are so mys-
terious and bewildering
to most of us laymen. But at the same time he
was prominent in the social life of the University.
He instituted their first student circus, he partici-
pated in the dramatic productions, and because of
his humanness in general he was one of the out-
standing figures in college life.

That was significant because it was prophetic.
\Vhen he was later Chief Engineer of the Lin-
coln Park System, he had to battle the problems
of shore protection against the storms of Lake
Michigan. He had to solve all the intricate prob-
lems of park construction and maintenance. But
even outside of his technical responsibilities he
was drawn by something in his nature which
would not be denied into the human service phase

of operations. The playgrounds intrigUed him.

The community houses engaged his attention. It
wasn’t long before the recreation program of the
District was turned over to him, and in the ath-

601

602 ENGINEERINGMMATERIAL AND HUMAN

letic cquncils of the city George Donoghue, the
Chief Engineer of Lincoln Parks, represented the
Lincoln Park System.

We had a city Amateur Athletic Federation in
those days. Its delegate membership represented
every public and private agency in Chicago. Most
of them were professional coaches or directors of
athletics, of long standing in the profession.
George never served as a coach. While he en-
gaged in athletics as a student in his school days

for the fun of it, he never Specialized particularly .

in athletic competition. But within-'ia short time
he was the leading spirit in the Athletic Federa—
tion’s sessions. He possessed a vast amount of in—
formation on the subject, and had a very lively and
intelligent interest in it. Every branch of athletic
activity found in him an enthusiastic supporter. I
have had direct charge of the department of the

parks promoting athletic programs for a good ‘

many years, but if a question of history or athletic
personalities comes up which I cannot answer off—
hand from memory, I have only to consult his
amazing memory to get the answer today. In—
evitably this interest, which has been a hobby
with him, led to an increasing recognition, to his
appointment as official in national championship

meets and in the Olympic Games, and ultimately -

to his presidency of the Central Association of the
National A.A.U. He has not gone further in honors
given by the National A.A.U. only because the
pressure of other duties made it impossible for
him to accept repeated proffers of preferment.

This preoccupation with athletics is another evi—
dence, merely, of the broad humanness of the
man. He revels in the atmosphere of striving, the
intensity of purpose and effort which obtain in
the field of competition. He isn’t a rabid partisan,
even as a loyal alumnus, for the Illini, but he does
enter whole-heartedly into the eagerness of spirit
with which youth pours out its utmost in com-
petition.

It has been our great good fortune in Chicago
that two outstanding engineers in official position
in the Park System have been so human at heart.
Frank Foster was the Superintendent of the
South Parks who, in planning park expansion,
conceived the community fieldhousesjn an effort
to make that expansion serve more intimately the
life needs of the people of the city. George
Donoghue intensely admired Mr. Foster as the
pioneer. Upon Mr. Foster’s death, he succeeded
to the position of Superintendent of the South
Parks. Mr. Foster’s picture has'ever since hung

in his office opposite his desk, and he says in all
seriousness that he frequently looks up to that
picture to get the inspiration he needs to meet
some pressing problem. '

But if Mr. Foster, as an engineer, first con-
ceived the need of a broader human service in the
parks, George Donoghue has supported and mold—
ed the development of public recreation as a rec-
ognized integral part of the park system’s opera-
tions. He has never permitted himself to become
so engrossed in his material or administrative
problems as to lose interest in making the entire
park equipment and organization an agency of
service to the people. The landscaped vistas are
to him a means of bringing beauty into the drab
ugliness of city life. After the winter storm of a
few years ago which tore great gaps into our lake
shore, washing away walks and drives and plan-
tations along the new made strip of land on the
south shore, a sea wall of huge blocks of stone,
heavy enough to defy the waves of the future,
was piled along the shore. It was primarily an
answer to an :engineering problem. But repeat-
edly, as we have passed by these tumbled stones,
he has pointed out to me the fact that they have
a rugged beauty of their own. In the flat monot-
ony of our city, they introduce a touch of jagged
and massive strength which our smooth sand
beaches lack. He thinks they contribute to the
interest of the lake shore landscape. They serve
their engineering purpose, but they have a human
significance, as well, and I think that if one should
ask him to define his profession as an engineer he
would say that it was the profession of building
materials into the service of human needs.

Certainly we have always found him ready to
lay aside a material problem, however urgent it
might be, if any human problem in the parks was
so pressing as to need immediate attention. His
suggestions have inspired many an adaptation of
our service. We have never gone to him with an
inspiration'of our own promising an extension of
our service, without finding him immediately re—
sponsive and completely sympathetic. He always
understands the things we are dimly groping to-
ward, and almost without exception his thinking
clears away some of the difficulties with which we
are still laboring, and forms an essential and valu-
able contribution to our planning. He never
merely listens without offering some additional
contribution of his own, and many of the features
of our service have been his own original sug- ‘
gestions.

 

   
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
    

Leadership of this sort is an inspiration to the
vhole park organization. Himself the very soul
f loyalty, he inspires a loyalty by taking it for
ranted in others. He is no less loyal to his Board
f Commissioners and the men under his direc-
ion than to his church and its ideals. There is
omething line about such an attitude that brings
o the surface the fineness in those who work
nder such a man’s direction. You ust can’t let a
an down when he puts you on your honor. He
ssumes that you are going to live up to the best
here is in you, and such an assumption forces
at best to the surface.
Perhaps this attitude of his is a result of his
wn life history. When he started at work as a
'young engineer, it was under the direction of
'Edward  Kelly, now Mayor of the city. Mr.
Kelly apparently had an instinct for selecting men
’of unusual promise. A long list of men now out-
.standing in the city went to work for him in their
early careers and were given opportunity to prove
lthemselves. He heaped responsibilties on them.
He made them work like mad. He gave them
the toughest assignments as trouble-shooters. But
e succeeded in making men of them, and one
fter another they attribute their later success to
e chance he gave them. George was one of
ese products of the Kelly school of training, and
ke the other men who had similar experience, he
devoted to the quality of manhood and of
aracter which he knows so well in his friend,
1e Mayor.
Later, when Mr. Kelly was President of the
outh Park Board, George was General Superin-
ndent during the period of park expansion when
e lake shore acreage 'was under construction.
'. he problems of that construction were critical.
' or miles along the shore line filling operations
ere progressing, and a new water front was be-
g formed dedicated to beautifying the city, but
so demanding a .bulwarked frontage strong
iough to withstand the shock
winter storms driving
eat ice Hoes against the
msy man-made ramparts
ilt to protect the fill. There
ere problems of a soft and
lding clay bottom which
d a tendency to squeeze
t from under the till be-
use of pressure. There were
a oblems of highway and

A listing of the organizations in which Mr.
Donoghue holds membership will show
how broad are the interests of the man
who is heading Chicago's parks: Delta
Tau Delta (college fraternity), American
Society of Civil Engineers; Rotary Club
of Chicago; Illinois Athletic Club: Hon-
orary member of the Chicago Athletic
Club and of the Chicago Yacht Club:
member of the Calumet Council K. of C.;

Vice President' American Institute of Park
Executives; President. Central A. A. U.

ENGINEERING—MATERIAL AND HUMAN 603

stalled above a yielding lake bottom.-. There were
problems of adjustment of differences with the
keenest minds which some of the great corpora-
tions of the city could engage to fight their bat-
tles for them, selected attorneys for the railroads,
men chosen for their ability to drive shrewd bar-
gains on behalf of their clients. They had to be
met in mental combat and persuaded into signing
satisfactory contracts. The new Superintendent,
representing the people of the city, must sit
around the table with some of the keenest legal
minds of our largest corporations, matching his
legal inexperience against their long training in
driving advantageous bargains. It was another
trouble-shooting job to which President Kelly of
the Park Board summoned the engineer whom he
had entrusted with responsibility before.
Together the President and the Superintendent
began to analyze the contracts offered them. Con—
cealed in legal phrases, they found places where
they felt the interests of the people of the city
were jeopardized, and loyal to their clients———the
people———they began the long battle of safeguard—
ing the public interest. The President of the
Board received no salary at all, the Superintend—
ent only a modest one. Across the table from them
sat men commanding six-figure salaries by virtue
of their proved abilities. But when the final sig-
natures were attached, there was among the rep-
resentatives of the corporate interests an amazed,
if not almost bewildered, respect for the keenness
of the minds opposing them, and for the loyal
devotion to the public well-being which inspired
those minds. The contracts were written and re-
written, but at the end they safeguarded the in-
terests of the people of Chicago. How well that
safeguarding was accomplished has been proved
repeatedly in the years that have since elapsed.
The South Parks are no more. Three years ago
they were consolidated with twenty-one other for-
merly independent park boards of the city into a
single metropolitan system——
the Chicago Park District—-
and George Donoghue was
immediately appointed Gen-
eral Superintendent of the
consolidated system. The for-
mer President of the South
Park Board had been drafted
by that time into the Mayor’s
chair, to fulfill the unexpired
term of Mayor Cermak after

(Continued on page 622)

The Red Mask Players of Danville

ARLY IN THE FALL of 1936, the Department of
E of Recreation of Danville, Illinois, began to
formulate plans for the development of a
little theater. Great care was taken at the begin-
ning to make it clear that the theater was to be a
civic, or community, organization. Not only was
everyone to be welcomed to its performances, but
citizens who previously had had no connection
with an established organization were to be espe—
cially urged to take an active part. This was
stressed because so many attempts to establish
theaters had failed because the club starting the
theater had tried to keep the inside of the organi-
zation close within its membership. We believed
that to be worthy to be called a civic organization
the theater must give opportunity to all the talent
in the community.

A fairly thorough survey of the community had
revealed to us a real need for such a project and
an interest in it. The Recreation Department
was, through the community center drama pro-
gram, in a small way, taking care of many boys
and girls of high school age and of young adult
men and women. Our concern now was for the
promotion of drama among the many groups and
hundreds of individuals in the community whom
we were completely failing to reach. As in simi—
lar towns of this size there were already many
organizations dabbling in dramatics and putting
on an occasional play or minstrel. The survey re—
vealed to us that many of these people who were
receiving a little experience, and many more who
were getting no opportunities at all, were eager
for a real chance to try their talent.

How the Plan Developed

A date was set for the initial meeting to which
twenty-five representative citizens were invited.
These representative people were not necessarily
potential actors, but people who had at some time
expressed an interest in civic drama. The purpose

of the Little Theater was explained and discussed -

freely. On that evening a second meeting date
was set. At this time all interested were to re—
turn and bring others interested for the express
purpose of building a definite organization. Out
of this group meeting a board of twelve directors
was elected to serve a minimum one-year term

604

 

This is the story of a community pro-
iect established not. to sponsor a few
amateur actors in public appearances.
but to develop a great group of
amateurs producing plays for the fun
of it. and to satisfy the desire of
the citizens to see good drama.

 

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Superintendent of Recreation

  
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

and a maximum three-year term. Active officer
and a director of productions were elected for .
one-year term of office. This newly elected grou
drew up the constitution for the organization.

With theLittle Theater the possessor of a con
stitution, officers and directorate, the next ste ‘
was the appointment of various committees, Suc
as Executive, Play Reading, Casting, Produc
tions, Publicity, House, Membership and Finance
We were conscious of the fact that no grou
could grow satisfactorily unless many people wer
kept busy. - *

And now the question, “What of the pro .1
gram?” What would membership in this grou
have to offer a citizen of the community? Wha
was the group actually intending to do? We ha
no intention of rushing out to get a long list 0
names on the membership rolls the first year. W
wanted to start slowly, with genuine enthusias a
and carefully build this into a large interes
throughout the community.

We Begin!

we were fortunate in securing the services 0
an exceptionally fine director of productions——
woman with years of professional drama experi '
ence, including Chautauqua work, who had alread
established herself as a person of ability. He.
knowledge and experience, combined with that of
others, gave us the nucleus for a program com
mittee. The program set up by this committ *
which was initiated in January, 1937, include;
the following: The Art, of Make—Up, a practi

(Continued on page 624) 
ft |

f}
;

 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

F THE school children of the
next generation had a
chance to choose the kind
lo elementary school which
hey might wish to attend,
hat would be their choice?
ould it be a mere group of
onventional classrooms on a
ongested city site, or would
t be one of the highly institu-
ionalized types of buildings
hich are to be found in many
of the small communities? I imagine that tomor—
' row’s school children would tend to choose open
spaces where there is an abundance of grass and
where a brook Hows between hillside and meadow.
hese children will want the sunlight, the flowers,
I he greensward, the shadows of the trees, and the
nviting openness of natural surroundings.

l,

l

The Site

Diagram I shows the site of the school of to-
lOI‘I‘OW with suggestions of what children may
nd thereon. There is a thought that children

§CNOOL 'COTTAGE—S

By N. L. ENGELI—IARDT

In this article. reprinted by courtesy

of Childhood Education, Professor
Engelhardt of Teachers College' Co-
lumbia Universityl envisions a school
which will malte up
contacts with nature which civilization
is denying them. The drawings were
prepared by Harrison and Fouilhoux.

Rockefeller Center. New York City.

HOUSE

 

The Elementary School of Tomorrow

should have contact with all
that nature provides in plant
and animal life. So on this site
are many trees, and an open
lake for skating and for sail-
ing contests with miniature
boats. Here children may swim
or may develop an outdoor
aquatic garden in which all of
the aquatic plants of the area
may be grown. There is a fish
pond and a hatChery which
may serve far better for teaching purposes than
the little gold-fish aquarium to be found in the
average school of‘today. There are corrals for
pets of various kinds. These pets may find their
way from time to time into classrooms where
their habits of living may be observed more Close-
ly. In these corrals provision will be made for
their proper care even outside school hours.

to children the

Gardens have been shown on this plan and, as
need arises, other parts of the acreage may be de-
voted to this purpose. A rendeZVOUs for Boy
Scouts, or other types of boys’ clubs, for Girl

.1.

a."

.,_

CUSTODIANS
.} .

' Diagram l

605

606

Scouts, and for like organizations has been in-
cluded. An open-air theater, approached through
proper drives, nestles among the trees in one cor—
ner of the site. A custodian’s house has also been
provided. Here the custodian will live because this
school will need constant observation and protec-
tion. Play opportunities are indicated in the play

meadow with its open fields as
well as planned game sections,
in the play fields of regulation
size for various games, and in
the enclosed gymnasium struc-
ture apart from the main

building.

The Schoolhouse

The schoolhouse occupies a
relatively small part of the en-
tire site. It has been conceived
in two parts which have been
named “primary unit” and
“elementary unit.” Perhaps a
better name {Or the primary
unit is “the house of child-
hood,” unless this name should
be applied to the whole struc—
ture. About the primary unit

 
  
   

———--—--——-—-—

Number U m' f . Size Number Unit Size
1 Auditorium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56’ x 72’ 11 Class Rooms (Primary Grades) . . . . . . . .24’ x if.

2 Class Rooms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23’ x 28’ 12 Kindergarten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24’ x 11

3 Work Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14' x 23’ 13 General \Vork Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30' x4 .

4 Open Play Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35’ x 50’ 14 Kindergarten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24’ x 4 i

5 Class for Anemics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24’ x 30’ 15 Outdoor Class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘. .22’ x ‘5

6 General Science Room with Conser- 16 Outdoor Play Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40’ x 5

vatory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30’ x 36’ 17 Medical Clinic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18’ x 2

7 Art Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..20’ x24' 18 General Ofiice and Principal’s Oflice. . . .18’ x_3 3'.

8 General Shop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20’ x 46’ 19 Teachers’ Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18’ x 2 i

9 Millinery Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..20’x24’ 20 Library and Work Room . . . . . . . . . . . ..18’ x ‘

10 Domestic Arts Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..20’ x 22’ 21 Stage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30’ x *

  
  

  
  
    
 
 

      
 

   
  

  
   

   
    

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL OF TOMORROW

 

 
   
 
 
  
  
  
      
 

m:-
0 20 1'0 60

Diagram II

will be noted terraces for work and play. Alon
the winding road leading away from the mail
structure will be found a group of school cottages
The number indicated here is not as meaningfu
as the character of the cottage itself as outline
in' Diagram III.

Diagram II outlines the main school buildin

   
   

     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 

together with its adjoinin
primary unit. An auditorium
numbered I on 'the plan. i
shown, surrounded by larg
rooms serving the specialize
purposes of the fine arts, in
dustrial arts, and househol
“13-- arts. The classrooms, number
ed 2 on the plan, have bee
thought of as opening ou
upon terraces of their owr
Between each pair of class
rooms is to be found a work
room in which the school wil
place the equipment require
to serve the needs of the pro
gram which is being advanced
Open play courts have been in ‘
dicated on this plan.. Thes
can be used as out-of—doo

 
 
 
 
  

 

I

   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 

it

it

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL OF TOMORROW

,a

     
 

. "1?" a“ E

-" , / hAC‘IAI-D g...» If
 
éf’”/I/IIIIMIWIWIII%  
- B o ‘r 5
G (3 5 = r» v s

classrooms, or as shelters
in unfavorable weather.
Ample space is provided

am

am

i

III/fl/A'l/ Ill/WI

u

_
R
“xx

thha
COATS

GIRL b

for a library well central- 7 . ‘
12ed 1n the general scheme. l:l:l:l ’ZT?
. . . m 

g A medical clinic and of-

fices, teachers’ rooms, and

pupil service rooms have also been in-
dicated. This central unit may be of
more than one story. It may be ex-
panded freely to meet the needs of
larger groups. It is not expensive to
build and its very nature suggests free-

dom of human development in the educational
program.

The primary unit, located to the rear of the
main unit, makes provision for children of the
kindergarten and early grades. There is a central
room which may be used in common. It has been
called a general workroom. The classroom spaces
are well lighted, well» served with cloak and toilet
facilities, and open directly upon terraces where
the smaller children may be under the direct ob-
servation of the teachers from the classrooms.
The central rodm,'lighted in monitor fashion, may
serve as a general ,,gathering place for music,
drama, and social evgnts, as
well as a general workroom.
It is,.available for both par-
ents and children.

School Cottages
Diagram III furnishes one
suggestion of what the school
pttages alogg the winding
oad may be like. They have
been thought of as places in

  

l

 

; .

.f_______l

um

Diagram lll

"Probably the school of the future will
serve a substantially larger proportion of
the population than it does now. With
" the trend toward community and school
planning and the spread of the concep-
tion of education as continuous through-
out life, schools will probably serve as
cultural and recreational centers for the
community as a whole." Russell A. Holy,
Ph.D.. in The Relationship of City
Planning to School Plant Planning.

607

-I;////I--— . — . — . . m . — .—.%
E II —

g E2313 a”: 6”“6’ tip a? 
l Q Q aim??? n n ‘
 {:3 c3 3

5:

’
.I I 0 u.-
o':‘&: ‘A

5:.-
.- ’5
E

$
1 94:35.5“, €£§£¥
.m _c I. o 9. “DL c. I. '5. Al - 5":‘24' ir' gay-'2:

0’-

5°75

"k

 

which groups of children

New:
‘0
LEI
\

#I/W] II III/fl [Ill/VIIII/IIIIIIWEIIJ/I/f/1/”? . . .
 4 W111 work on the1r pm]—
  ects or in the solution of

problems. These cottages
will be inexpensively built.
They may have only the
equipment which the chil-
dren make. The rooms may be dec-
orated by the children according to
their own plans. Here groups will be
" found discussing their work, learning
to mingle socially, and living in ‘a real
world of their own. There may be few
or there may be many cottages on this school site.
Even the cottages may in some cases be planned
by the children and built by them. In other words,
this school encourages the creative; it recognizes
the many activities of man, and suggests educa-
tional growth out of contact with man’s activities
rather than by merely learning about them as
often is the case. _, . '
Prophecy is, always audacious. The school of
tomorrow which many of the readers of this
article will plan may be quite unlike this school.
It seems reasonable, however, to suppose that
most of those who plan for tomorrow will think
of the school as taking its
rightful place in the entire
community. It must be an
, attractive spot; it should cer-
tainly take advantage of all
that nature affords; it should
think of children as human
beings living a meaningful,
happy and successful life,and
it should provide a maximum

(Continued on page 625)

F
.4
n
I
M
2
—
_

p

’f

\

 

with the Union County Camera Club

in. L_\I(1\I ('(n'M‘v. New Jersey, Camera
Tt '1qu is the immediate outgrowth of the first

amateur photo contest sponsored by the
(011111} Park Commission in 1936. The number
.vf entries submitted for the contest indicated that
there were many residents of the county‘seriously
interested in amateur photography, and the quality
of their work showed a great deal of artistic
ability.

The Recreation Department of the Park Com—
mission, feeling that a club would help increase
interest in this hobby and develop individual skill
in the use of a camera and of a dark room, took
steps to promote an organization by calling a meet-
ing for September 30th at the Administration
Building in Warinanco Park. At this meeting F.

S. Mathewson, Superintendent of Recreation for .

the Park Commission, outlined plans for the pro—
posed organizations'
The sixteen camera

"Sunset Serene" by P. G. Kellinghausen. Elizabeth. N. J.I

won second prize in a Union County camera competition

enthusiasts who attended despite bad weather
voted unanimously to start the Union County
Camera Club. I

The first meeting was held on October 14th
with thirty-eight charter members in attendance.
Since that date the club membership has increased
to about eighty, attendance at meetings averaging
forty-five. The club meets twice a month, the
meeting on the second Wednesday of each month
being devoted to a business session and to lectures
on various phases of photography. A monthly
competition among members is held on the fourth
\Vednesday. After the judging each print entered
is criticized by some member qualified to pass
judgment on the merit of the photographs.

That the formation of the Union County
Camera Club by the Recreation Department
“started something” among camera hobbyists is

evidenced by the fact

(Continued on page 625)

l‘.

l.

0'!

f

 

 
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
 
    
 
  
   

HE WINTER sports program
planned for the play cen-
ters of St. Paul, Minne-
ta, by the Department of
arks and Playgrounds offers
wide variety of activities and
'ill appeal to many interests.

Skating

The general skating season
ill, it is hoped, open on
hristmas Day and will con-
inue until the middle of February. Among the
cheduled events in the program are school chil-
dren’s ice races sponsored by the Fourth District
American Legion at the community playgrounds

afternoon. There will be tobogganing at two parks
ind sledding and sliding for children at all of the
laygrounds as well as at the city parks. Sliding
ills will be built of snow where natural hills are
ot available. Skiing events will be scheduled at
our parks, with jumping at two.

In a number of districts broomball leagues will
organized for boys thirteen years and under,
1d boys sixteen years and under. Ice baseball
ill be organized at each rink, and the game will

This game brings into Use the hockey puck and
ckey stick handled by a player on skates in-
ad of equipment consisting of a ball, bat and
iked shoes. It is designed for good players,
th boys and girls, and it may be a co-recrea-
onal activity. It develops skill in handling the
uck and in skating for hockey play. The leagues
r boys or girls sixteen years of age and over
(1 the Co—recreational League will be on a city-
ide basis. .

Beginners’ Interplayground Skating Meet

On January 2nd at Como Lake the beginners’
terplayground skating meet will take place. Each
ayground rink will be represented by one speed
ater in each class. Representatives will be ex-
cted to participate in all events for their classes.

lassitication

Boys 10—11 years
Boys 12—13 years
Boys 14—15 years
Boys 16—17 years

Girls 10—11 years
Girls 12—13 years
Girls 14—15 years
Girls 16—17 years

and major ice races at Como Lake every Sunday.

taught and played on every Saturday morning.“

Winter Outdoor Sports in St. Paul

The St. Paul, Minnesota, Department
of Parks and Playgrounds has plan-
ned a winter sports program for the
play centers of the city which will
appeal to a variety
interests. It is to be hoped that
the fickle "Weather Man" will think
sufficiently well of the program to
permit it to go into effect! In any
event the city will be prepared to
take immediate advantage of any ice
and snow which may be vouchsated!

Eligibility. Any boy or girl
who has never won any medals
in any city major skating meets
before or during the 1937 sea-
son is eligible. All contestants
must register at the warming
room before 2 :00 P. M. and re-
ceive their numbers.

Age Definition. If a boy’s or
girl’s sixteenth birthday occurs
on or before January I, 1938,
he or she is not eligible in the
14—1 5 year class, and so on in the other classes. '

Events a nd Program

Events for boys 10—11 years—100 yards; 1/6 mile
Events for boys 12-13 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile
Events for boys 14-15 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile;
1/2 mile
Events for boys 16-17 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile;
1/2 mile
Events for girls 10—11 years—100 yards; 1/6 mile
Events for girls 12-13 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile
Events for girls 14—15 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile;
1/2 mile '
Events for girls 16—17 years—220 yards; 1/4 mile;
1_/2 mile
The order of events will be as follows:
1. Boys 10-11 years—100 yards
2. Girls 10-11 years—100 yards
3. Boys 12-13 years—220 yards
4. Girls 12-13 years—220 yards
5. Boys 14-15 years—220 yards
6. Girls 14-15 years—220 yards
7
8
9

of tastes and

. Boys 16-17 years—220 yards

. Girls 16-17 years—220 yards

. Boys 10—11 years—U6 mile
10. Girls 10-11 years—U6 mile
11. Boys 12~13 years—1/4 mile
12. Girls 12-13 years—U4 mile
13. Boys 14-15 years—U4 mile
14. Girls 14-15 years—1/4 mile
15. Boys 16-17 years—U4 mile
16. Girls 16-17 years—N4 mile
17. Boys 14—15 years—l/Z mile
18. Girls 14—15 years—l/Z mile
19. Boys 16-17 years—l/Z mile
20. Girls 16—17 years—l/Z mile

Scoring. The winner of first place in each event
will be credited with 30 points, second place 20
points, third place 10 points.

The total points of all events in each class will
decide the class winner. In case of a tie in total
points in a class, the winner of the longer race will
be given an extra 5 points.

609

Awards. A suitable pennant or trophy will be

Short toboggans, under 7 feet, with 2 perso

610 WINTER OUTDOOR SPORTS IN ST. PAUL ‘
i

awarded to the playgrounds winning hrst, second
and third places in the meet, figured from the sum
of the total points won by the representatives of
each playground.

Playground Carnival Queen’s Selection Day

January 22nd will be a gala day at Phalen rink
when the queen will be selected. Any boy or girl
representing a playground may participate in the
events in their respective classes. There will _be
no limit to the number who may take part from

any one playground.
The program will be as follows:

Skating

Boys' 10—11 years of age—one lap race
Girls 10-11 years of age—one lap race
B0ys 12-13 years of age—two lap race
Girls 12-13 years of age—two lap race
Boys 14—15 years of age—three lap race
Girls 14-15 years of age—three lap race
Boys 16-17 years of age—four lap race
Girls 16-17 years of agehfour lap race

Sledding

Boys under 10 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Girls under 10 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Boys 10-11 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Girls 10-11 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Boys 12-13 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Girls 12-13 years of age—slide for distance on sled
Skiing
Boys 12-13 years of age—skiing downhill for distance
Girls 12-13 years of agewskiing downhill for distance
Boys 14-15 years of age—skiing downhill for distance
Girls 14—15 years of agehskiing downhill for distance
Boys 16—17 years of age—cross country skiing from
near the skating rink over the fairway of golf course
toward Gillette Hospital and return
Girls 16—17 years of age

—same cross country
as for boys 16-17

Boys 14-15 years of age
-—-cross country race on
skis from the skating
rink up and around old
water tower and back

Girls 14—15 years of age

—same as for bOys
14-15

Tobogganing. There
is no age limit set for
participants in this 
event, the only require- l.‘
ment being that each  2‘
participant shall repre- , .-. - .- ._
sent a playground. ‘, '. ‘ ‘y'di

One of the earliest forms of snow modeling
known. but it still retains its popularity!

  

on each. Slide downhill for distance.
Medium length toboggans, not over IO fe
with 3 persons on each. Slide for distance. 
Long toboggans, over 10 feet, with no limit
for persons on each. Slide for distance.

?

Novelty Events on Ice. For boys and girls, me
bers of Young PeOples’ Clubs, 16 years and ov i.
representing a playground. '~

d

Pushmo-Race: Girl on skates, boy witho .
skates; boy pushes girl while she stands still I
skates.

Chariot Race: Two boys without skates a
one girl on skates. Boys pull the girl by her ban
or skate guard, rope, etc.

Pushmo Duet: Boy and girl, both on skat ‘
Boy stands still on skates, facing girl, who push ‘1
him. Both have hands on each other’s shoulders

Scoring. First places will be credited with 3
points; second places with 20 points, and thi
places with 10 points.

The playground receiving the greatest numb
of points for the program will be awarded a sui '_
able trophy or pennant, and the winners of secon I
and third places will also receive awards.

The winning program will have the honor o ‘
choosing the playground queen from among it [
group. The winners of the second and third place
will choose the first and second princesses.

Snow Modeling

Snow modeling will be an activity on all cit '
playgrounds during the week of January 17th
Each playground will exhibit its own selection 0
articles on its own grounds during that week. ‘
number of articles wil
be judged and thos
selected will be exhibit
ed in the downtown dis
trict. The subjects fo
the modeling, one of
which will be assigned
each center, will include.

the following:

Red Riding Hood

The Cat and the Fiddle ,

The Woman Who Lived
in the Shoe l

Jack Horner

Little Boy Blue

Jack and Jill

Dutch Boy and Windmill

 

h

Thousands of people in
game rooms of commu-
nity centers are now play-
ing quiet games. Very
often someone will ask——
"How did this game
s’rar’r?H Here is the an-
swer for some of our
most popular games

By
BERT SEIDELL

\

Courtesy Berkshire Industrial School

" MISS JONES, how did the game of dominoes

start ?” asked little Jimmy Smith of Miss

Jones, Supervisor of the Game Room in

Lavender Community Center, Industria, Ohio.
Miss Jones and thousands of others are often
asked similar questions in the game room and are
at a loss for an answer. They turn to the en-
cyclopedias and find very little information there.
They write letters to the manufacturers of a
game and find that many of them do not know the
origin of the game in question. They turn to the
library in- the hope of finding a history of games,
but again they are often disappointed. There is
information about these games, but it takes a long
search to find it.

This article is written in the hope that it may
shed a little light on the question that Jimmy
asked and thousands of other Jimmies may ask.
It will attempt to give a brief history On the
origins of dominoes, jacks, quoits, checkers, jack-
straws, Crokinole, shuffleboard and chess.

A number of these games seem to have a com-
mon origin, but it is extremely difficult to give
the exact date because the beginnings of games
were rarely recorded. The majority of the games
in our game rooms today are the results of modi-

And This ls How It Started!

 

Photo by Hiram Myers

lications through the ages. Very few of the games
played in classical Greece, mighty Carthage, and
imperial Rome'would be recognized in their mod-
ern form by players of those far-off times. Many
authorities believe that modern games are not
spontaneous creations, but the results of centuries
of modification.

Dominoes

The game of dominoes has been traced to the
early Greeks, Hebrews and Chinese. These peo-
ple played the game at an early date in history but
just when the game was invented is not known.
It has been definitely established, however, that it
was introduced into Europe in the middle of the
18th century, appearing first in Italy. From Italy
it spread to France and England and then through-
out Europe and the rest of the world. There are
many variations of the game in different countries.

There are a number of stories about the origin
of the name Dominoes. Some authorities believe
that it was derived from the color of the back of
the pieces which is black like a domino; others,
that due to the simplicity of the game it was per-
mitted in monasteries, and when a player won a
game he was wont to utter an exclamation of sat-
isfaction and a blessing upon the Lord in the

611

612 AND THIS IS HOI/V IT STARTED!

same breath. “ Tenedicamus Domino,” he would
cry. From this, so ’tis said, came the abbreviation
Domino. There are many other legends, but what
is fact and what is fancy, it is difficult to decide.

Jacks or Jackstones

Jacks is a very old game and appears to have
been played by the Egyptians during the time of
the Pharoahs. The great Greek dramatist and
poet Aristophanes, more than 2000 years ago de—
scribed jacks as a girl’s game. A bas-relief of
ancient Greece shows small children playing the
game in the street. The game was first played with

the knucklebones of the sheep. In some parts of l

Europe it is still played with bones. In fact, in
France the game is called “Osselets” meaning
“little bones.”

The game is called by different names in Euro—
pean countries. In England it is called Dibs and
was formerly called Cockall. In Scotland, the
small pebbles are called clmckie-stones. In Ger-
many the game is called Handtopsen or Knock-
elchen. In this country the game is played with
small pebbles in some sections and with marbles
and metal jackstones in other sections.

9

Quoits

No authority can be found giving the year or
place of the origin of the game of quoits. Ac-
cording to some authorities, pitching quoits was a
favorite amusement among the Greeks and Ro-
mans. That they played the game with a kind of
quoit called a discus which had no hole in it but
was solid like a plate, is acceptable to some an-
thorities. Others believe that the game originated
on the borderland of Scotland and England.
Quoits was one of the games prohibited in the
reign of Richard II and Edward III of England.
in favor of archery. The word quoit is from the
provincial English coit meaning to throw. The
name of the game is also spelled Kwoits and
Kaits.

Checkers

The origin of the game of Checkers is also lost
in the past. Some writers believe it to be a modi-
fied form of chess, while others think that chess
was evolved from the simpler game of checkers.
From hieroglyphics and inscriptions it appears
that it was a favorite game with the Egyptians as
early as 2000 B. C. King Rameses II is repre-
sented on the walls of his palace as playing check-
ers with some great personage. Homer mentions

  
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
    
  

checkers in The Odyssey and Plato in hi
Dialoyues.

In one form or another the game is played al

on a board with five lines and with five pieces
There is no authoritative record that checker
was common in Europe until the beginning of th
16th century. The oldest known' book on th
game was published in 1547 by Anton Torque
mada, a Spaniard. There are many variations 0
checkers w—Chinese, English, Polish, Spanish
Italian, and Turkish. In France the game is calle
Le fen de Dames because it was a great favorit
'with the ladies. The Germans call it Da-menspie
and the Italians, [l Giuoco delle Dame. In Gaeli .
the game is called Taileasq and in Turkish, Doama ,
The game is even found among the native tribes .
of the interior of New Zealand where the game
is called E’mu.

Chess

Of the origin of chess nothing is really known.
Its invention has been attributed to the Greeks,
Romans, Babylonians, Persians, Hindus and
Arabians. Probably each of these pe0ple im-
proved a little upon it until it has arrived at its
present state. There are many legends and stories
as to its origin. H. J. R. Murray in his book A
History of Chess (Clarendon Press, 1913), de-
voted 900 pages to tracing the history of this very
fascinating game and there is a very extensive
literature on the playing of the game. Many
scholars have spent much time searching for the
source of chess, and research is still going on.
Chess has alway been popular with soldiers, stu- .
dents and men of state and today is one of the
most popular games.

Jackstraws

Like many other games, it is impossible to say
deflnitely where and when the game of Jack-
straws originated. It was known in England sev-
eral centuries ago. Originally it was called Jerk-
straws. It was also known in England as Spitti-
kins. The game is also known in continental
Europe. The French call it Jone/zets and the Ger-
mans know it as Federspiel.

Crokinole

Crokinole is a trade name in America. Its ori- ‘
gin must be looked for in other games. A game i
from which Crokinole might have been derived [3

4'

(Continued on page 627) \K

  
  
   
 

[TH THE deveIOpment of
' W adult recreation programs as
an important phase of the
jl leisure time activities of our de-
partments, it is imperative that we plan the pro-
gram to meet the needs of all ages and interests.

Today in our educational institutions students
are being trained in a diversification of skills that
can be carried on into adult life. Music, drama,
art, handcraft, nature study and many other in-
teresting activities are being taught. It is import-
ant, in planning our adult program, that we in-
clude those things that are part of the cultural life
of our people. It is not necessary that paid leader-
ship be provided, nor can it be provided, for every
activity that is being offered. Often we can find
adult leaders who are only too glad for the oppor-
tunity to pass on their skills to others who have
.similar interests.

There is drama, music, handcraft, reading or
any of the great variety of hobbies, the pursuit of
which makes a man more interesting to himself.
There are games, indoor and outdoors, swimming,
hiking and all the more active forms of recrea—
tion. There is social recreation, the experience of
sharing with others, and there is the job of dis—
covering beauty and making it one’s own. Those
recreation activities are most important which
' most completely command the individual so that
he loses himself in them and gives all that he has
.I and is to them. This, surely, represents a real
I challenge to the wide-awake recreation leader.
The hit—and-miss method of planning leisure has
no place in up—to-date recreation departments.
The only real test of the success of the adult pro-
gram is whether it is an ex—

Adult Recreation

By FERDINAND BAHR
Director of Recreation

Sioux City, Iowa

is available for them. As an ex- '
ample of this, let me tell you of
the various methods we have used
at Sioux City in reaching the pub—
lic with information regarding the program pro—
vided at our recreation centers.

Informing the Public

Our centers, which are located at the four
Junior High Schools, last year had an enrollment
of over I400 people who participated in the many
phases of the program. In planning for the cen-
ters every possible means was used in reaching the
public with information regarding plans and pro-
grams. In addition to the distribution of pam—
phlets and publicity through the press, radio talks
were given and there were addresses before P.T.A.
organizationsvand student assemblies at the col—
leges and high schools. A circular entitled “A
Program of Interest to You at Sioux City’s Rec-
reation Centers”'was distributed to all students at
the junior high schools, high schools and colleges,
with the request that they take the notices home
and bring them to the attention of parents and
other members of the family. Particular care was
taken to distribute the circulars from house to
house within a six block area surrounding each
recreation center. They were also placed by time
clocks at the various stores and manufacturing
establishments.

The circular, an attractive folded sheet, tells on
the inside of the tap dancing and gymnasium
classes, and arts and crafts and drama clubs; On
the back is information regarding the athletic ac-
tivities of the centers. ‘

The program has been

 

pression of the people them-
selves.

How can we best reach
the adults in our communi—
ties? We know that people
will not come to a recrea-
tion center just because the
building is open and oppor-
tunities for participation in
many different activities are
being offered. It is neces-
sary that the public be in-
formed of the program that

"Let us organize hours of productive con-
sumption. it we may use that term. hours
filled with activities rather than 'pas-
sivities.’ Let us multiply the occasions
on which people find themselves in active
participation in group proiects rather than
in passive reception of prearranged pro-
grams. Such group activity in which the
individual participates has the added ad-
vantage ot bringing him into personal rather
than impersonal association with his tel-
lowsI and that process helps greatly in
bringing about the ultimate goal of im-
proved personality."—Fted G. McAlister
in "Live All Your Life!" Kiwanis Magazine.

outlined' in such a way that
some highlight activity is
conducted each evening the
center is open. This makes
for a continuity of attend-
ance. Activities include
gymnasium classes for both
men and women, arts and
crafts classes, with a special
class in pottery once a week
and a drama club at each
center. Instruction in arch-
ery is given beginners, and

’ 613

614

there are practice periods
for advanced players. Other
activities include tap danc—
ing, iadnlinton, table ten—
nis and chess. A game and
reading room is provided
for those not wishing to
take part in organized ac—
tivities.

A capable leader is in
charge of each center, and
the best instructors avail—
able are used for the spe—
cialized classes such as arts
and crafts. VVPA leadership
is used for game room and
locker room attendance. Reg—
ular classrooms are used for
all of the activities, and in
spite of the large attendance
at the centers very little dif~
ticulty has been experienc-
ed in the destruction of
property or equipment.
Hallways are used for arch—
ery, table tennis and dart
baseball.

Every effort is made to
keep the Board of 'Educa-
tion informed of the pro-
gram and interested in it.
On one occasion a dinner
meeting of the board was
held followed by a tour of
all the centers. News pho—
tographers took pictures of
the various activities with
members of the board tak~
ing part in them. Members
of the Board of Educatidn
thus were given a clearer
conception of what the ob—
jectives of the adult recrea—
tion program are.

At the first of the year,
before the centers reopened
after the Christmas holi-

days, an illustrated pam~
phlet entitled, “Yes Sir,
Here It Is—Opening of the

Al) I 7L T REC/{EA TION

A

'\

Universally popular is the celebration of

 

holidays and special days as a form of
recreation for adults! This group has
spared no pains in preparing for Hal—

lowe'en

festivities

Recreation Centers” was sent to all those enrolled
in the various classes. The pamphlet gave a re'-
sumé of. the new activities offered, together with

in

tered around interest or hobby activities.
recreation program of today in which adult rec-

( C ontiniced on page 628)

ReadingI

Pa.

 

   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

a review of the old ones
Continuous publicity on th
program was given through
out thelocal newspapers, an
monthly reports of the at
tendance at each of tlie\cen
ters were presented to th
Board of Education.

Socializing the Program

This year it is our plat
to socialize the program
having a monthly social at
fair at each center. As a
experiment a social roo
will be developed at severa
of the centers for co—recre
ation activities. New activi
ties built around hobby in-
terests as camera clubs,
woodcraft, chess and check~
ers, stamp clubs and other
like interests will be or~
ganized. ° The number of
clubs will be limited only by
the number of interests that
the adults attending the cen—
ters may have.

It has been our policy to
offer the regular activities
free to the participants.
However, with the develop—
ment of the program it will
be necessary for us to
charge a small fee for ac-
tivities that require the ser—
vices of a highly trained
specialist. In this group of
activities will be placed! art
and special dancing classes,
and classes of a like nature.

The success of any adult
program depends upon care—
ful planning. This means a
careful study of the needs
of the adults in the com—
munity and the building of
our programs around those
needs. The most successful

adult program will be cen—
The

 
  
           
  

ECENTLY a number of questions have been
asked with reference to trends in the form of
local governmental control of recreation and

rying comments have been made regarding such

ends. The National Recreation Association has
de two studies of changes and trends in local

.recreation administration, and a few of the major

‘.findings are summarized here for the benefit of

recreation workers.

I. A Comparison of Year-Round Recreation Ser-
viceI I923 and I933
One of the studies concerned itself with local
lrecreation service in cities which in 1923 reported
' no or more recreation leaders employed the year
I ound. Figures concerning these cities were com—
ared with those for cities which in 1933 reported
me or more full-time, year-round leaders. The
formation was secured from the Recreation
ear Books and through correspondence with the
cal recreation authorities. Special consideration
as given to the service of four types of recrea-
°on authorities: recreation boards or commissions,
I ecreation departments under an independent ex-
‘ecutive directly responsible to the mayor. city
‘I'nanager or a city commissioner, park boards and
school boards. The following are a few of the
Jmajor findings: .
‘1. In 1933, 165 cities reported 175 governmental
, agencies with full-time, year-round leadership.
44.5% of these agencies were recreation boards
l or commissions and 12% were independent

 recreation departments under an executive.
I Thus 56.5% were local governmental agencies

l

 
   
  
 
 
  

specifically created to care for the function of
' recreation, as compared with
| 17% park and 12% school
agencies. In cities under
100,000 56% of all the agen-
cies were recreation boards
or commissions.

52. In 1933, there were 109 gov-
ernmental agencies reporting
year-round leadership which

q.
1‘

"Under which municipal body does
a local recreation program make
most headway?" This is a question
frequently asked. This brief sum-
mary of two studies of trends in
administration will. it is hoped.
throw some light on the problem.

\

ecent Trends in Local Governmental Control
of

Year— Round Recreation

did not report such leadership in 1923. Of
these agencies 52% were recreation boards or
commissions and 13% independent recreation
departments under an executive. Therefore, of
the agencies establishing year-round work dur-
ing this period 65% had recreation as their
primary or exclusive function, as compared
with 10% in the case of schools and only 7%
in the case of parks. In cities under 100,000
58% of these new year-round programs were
under recreation boards.

. A study of the type of local municipal govern-

ment in 306 cities over 30,000 in 1933 showed
that 49.3% of the city manager cities had year-
round programs as compared with 41.7% of
the mayor-council cities and only 37% of the
commission cities. On the other hand, a greater
percentage of commission cities provided for
recreation under a separate recreation board or
department. This was the only type of local
government where the independent recreation
executive was found in almost as many cities
as the recreation board. Forty per cent of the
recreation agencies in city manager cities were
recreation boards.

. A comparison of the total number of paid

workers, number of playgrounds and number
of indoor centers was made for the cities under
the four types of recreation administration in
the cities reporting year-round leadership under
the same type of administration in both 1923
and 1933. The recreation boards or commis-
sions showed a much greater increase in these
three respects than the independent recreation
executives,the park boards or the school boards.

. A comparison was made of the salaries paid

chief recreation executives with the minimum
amounts recommended for this position by the
Committee on Training and Experience in Rec-
reation Work. Here again the
recreation boards made the best
showing. Only 23% ' of these
agencies paid their executives
less than the minimum standard,
as compared with 60% of the
school agencies which fell be-
low the minimum.

In order to secure some idea

615

616 RECENT TRENDS IN YEAR-ROUND RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

of the effect of the depression upon recreation
services in cities under various types of recrea-
tion administration, a comparison was made for
the years 1930 and 1933 of the total number of
workers, number of full-time, year—round work-
ers, appropriations for leadership, the number of
playgrounds and the number of indoor centers
under the four major types of administrative
agency.

1. In the case of all five of these local factors the
recreation board or commission made by far
the best showing. Recreation boards showed
an increase in all of the items except appro-
priations for leadership, whereas the inde-
pendent recreation executives and the school
authorities showed a decrease in each of the

five items, and the park board showed a de-
crease in four of them.

2. In comparison with their 1930 reports, the
Park Boards in 1933 made the poorest show-
ing in the total number of leaders. The inde-
pendent recreation executives showed the great-
est decrease in the number of full—time, year-
round workers and in the number of indoor
centers, whereas the schools showed a 40% de—
crease in expenditures for leadership and the
greatest decrease in the number of play—
grounds. This part of the study showed con-
clusively that recreation boards or commissions
withstood the iirst years of the depression
much more effectively than the other three
types of administrative authority.

The conclusions of this particular study point
clearly to the fact that based on Year Book data
for the period 1923 to 1933, the recreation board
is the form of local recreation administration
under which recreation service made the most
marked growth during the period and under which
a majority of the new year—round programs were
established. Local recreation service under the
recreation boards appears to have been better
maintained during the years 1930—1933 than it was
under the other types of agency.

II. A Comparison of Year-Round Recreation Ser-
vice. |928 and I936

For this study recreation authorities were di-
vided into five groups—“Recreation,” “Park,”
“School,” “Other Public Agencies” and “Private
Agencies.” Recreation boards and independent
executives were included under the heading, “rec-
reation agencies.” The year 1928 was chosen be—
cause this was the first year in which full-time,
year—round workers were reported in the Recrea-
tion Year Book. Only agencies reporting one or

  
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  

more. such workers were included in the stu '

which was based on Year Book data.

I. An analysis of the percentages of each of t
five types of agencies reporting in 1928 and i
1936 shows no marked change during the p
riod except in the case of the private grou
which fell off markedly. Of the four publ
groups, school authorities alone failed to i
crease in number. “Recreation” authoriti
'were most numerous, increasing from 38%
41% during the period, whereas schools we
the least numerous, with 8% in each year.

N

. Forty-six agencies reported full time leade
ship in 1936 which did not report such leade
ship in 1928. Of these agencies establishin
year-round programs, 18 or 39%, were recre .
tion departments, whereas only two were scho ;
authorities. In general, the live types of a
thorities had about the same percentage -
agencies in this group as in the total group r
porting full time leadership in 1936.

3. Only 26 changes in the form of local adminis
' trative control of recreation were reported dur
ing the period, or less than 10% of the tot
number of agencies. There were no change ‘
from municipal to private, and of the four mu ‘
nicipal groups recreation, park and school au
thorities made small gains.

4. An analysis was made of the effect of these 2
changes in administration upon the‘number o
full-time, year—round workers in the agencie
involved. The cities where the change wa
from “recreation” to some other type of agenc
showed a decrease in workers, whereas th
cities which changed from some other form t
“recreation” showed an increase in the numbe
of workers. In contrast, the cities changin
from parks showed a considerable gain in -
workers, whereas the cities changing to park I,
showed a great decrease. The four cities whic
changed from some other form of control t '1
school control showed no full-time, year-roun
workers employed in 1936.

5. A comparison was made of 172 agencies with
full-time, year-round workers in both 1928 and
1936, and with the same type of administrative
authority in both years, to determine the prog- i'
ress which had occurred in these cities under
the various types of administrative control.

l
a. The first analysis related to the number of i
full-time, year-round workers. The school au-a'
thorities were the only group showing an increase'
(4%) in the total number of year—round workers:
The average for all of the 172 agencies was an
18% decrease. The greatest decrease recorded was
for the “other authorities” group. A study of th
individual agencies showed that recreation authori-4 _
ties were the only group in which more agencies”

(Continued on page 628) 
l.

  
   

HERE IS MORE need of a
guide or guidance during
leisure than during work
ime. There is mass demand; there should be
ass supply of guides or guidance.

A. But what kind of guidance?

At least three kinds. Personal, individual;
business, commercial; public or governmental di-
rection or guidance.

B. Supervisory guidance?

Yes. No compulsory guidance. No bureau-
cratic guidance. All guidance should be volitional
both as to the person entitled to it and the person
or agency to furnish it.

C. Self-initiative guidance?

Yes. \Vhenever and wherever possible.

The use of leisure ought to be more self-de-
veloping than work. This is so because the use

f leisure and the benefit or not of its use is more
rwithin the control of the individual than is what
e should do or not do in the getting of a liveli-
ood. Indeed the touchstone of good supervisory
Ikuidance is the extent to which the child, the
youth, the adult voluntarily expresses, develops
.himself at whatever useful or pleasurable activity
. he may engage in.

In fact, as I see it, one of the greatest values to
"a person, and consequently to society and the na-
'tion, from leisure, much

 Guide to the Use ot Adult Leisure Time

Extracts From an address given at the University
ot Washington on guidance in the use ot leisure

By AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS
SeattleI Washington

large numbers of people at the
same time or place.

Conceding that as many peo-
ple as possible supply their own initiative and
guidance in respect to their leisure time use, there
will ever remain an innumerable number of peo-
ple who need immediate mass recreation. Very
many people not having private means nor per-
haps sufficient personal initiative should have
socialized recreation, the advantage of outside or-
ganization for collective enjoyment of their
leisure time.

Much of this large scale guidance of Using lei-
sure will be non—public in the sense of being non-
official, but nevertheless it will be institutiOnal or
have some sort of executive guidance and pro-
vision. The fact that nine million persons go into
our public parks shows, of course, personal ini-
tiative, more or less semi-private or semi—public
urging and direction, and the remainder govern-
mental encouragement and provisions for the
comfort and enjoyment of park visitors.

“Mechanism of industry, technological advances
and unemployment have brought an increase in
leisure. Effective use of this time is both a per-
sonal and a social problem. Educational and other
agencies are compelled to devote serious study to
developing programs de-
signed to prepare youth

-Ior little, is the self-de-
veloping, self-satisfac-
., ion which leisure af-
-fords. .
D. Large scale guid-
ance?

Again the answer is

The increasing num-
ber of our people, the
enlarging leisure time,
ogically call for large
. scale use of leisure time
and provision for recre-
ation in groups and by

 

"So leisure becomes not merely a problem of
free time. It becomes a problem of tree and
abundant living. But—and here is the very
essence of the whole matter—leisure cannot
hope to accomplish these things without di-
rection. Its mere existence is not enough.
Left to its own resources leisure will inevi-
tably follow the time-worn, vicarious channels
of its past. . . . Leisure demands wise super-
vision and control. But it does not demand
regimentation. It would probably never put
up with any ready-made pattern of dictation,
but it demands guidance. After all. the aver-
age man or woman is not too familiar with this
thing called leisure. or with the possibili-
ties the right use of leisure can bring."—
Attbur Newton Pack in Leisure, March I936.

and adults fora more con-
structive use of their spare
time. The arts, recrea—
tion and physical educa-
tion offer great opportu-
nities. Practically every
survey made in the last
few years indicates that
the foremost handicaps
in the leisure time area
are inadequate facilities
and lack of competent
leadership.” -— American
Youth C ommissio-n.

617

You Asked for It!

Question: Has anyone discovered a method for
making horseshoe pegs absolutely secure? We
have been having some difficulty regarding this in
our horseshoe pitching activities.

Answer: Last year a horseshoe thrower who
has won national championships gave an exhibi—
tion at VVarinanco Park maintained by the Union
County, New Jersey, Recreation Commission. For
his exhibition he insisted on having a green elm log
with a hole drilled through it sunk in the ground
and the horseshoe peg driven into this hole. This
method of holding the pin proved more satisfac—

tory than the standard method of pouring con—l

crete around the pins and the green log held the
pin much more securely. This year in installing
new horseshoe courts and quoit courts a green
elm log was attached to the cypress frame and
used on all new installations in the park system.
The entire installation was constructed as one unit
and was protected on the front, sides and top with
iron strips to prevent the wood from splintering.
This frame was set liush with the ground on the
courts and packed with a heavy clay inside of the
box, with only the pin extending above the ground.
-—-From the Union County, N. J.,‘ Park Com-
mission.

Question: Can you give us any new ideas for
stunts for our water carnival?

Answer: We have used two stunts in our an—
nual water carnival that proved very popular. One
is called a treasure hunt. We collected automo-
bile licenses from past years and kept the mum-
bers on a sheet. The metal tags were then dis-
tributed prior to the carnival about the pool, both
in the deep and shallow water. All swimmers who
had passed the tests -— beginners, intermediates
and seniors—were eligible, and at a signal the div-
ing and fetching began to continue until all the
numbers were in and 'the names of those bringing
in the respective numbers were' tabulated. The
awards having been allocated secretly to certain
of the numbers, the boys and girls bringing in
these particular numbers were rewarded with due
ceremony and fanfare.

Another stunt we used is known as watermelon
polo. Teams of from eight to twelve swimmers
line up on both sides of the pool. A life guard
takes a good sized watermelon to the exact center

618

    
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  

of the pool leaving it to float on the water. T
whistle is blown and with much splashing t
teams vie in an attempt to get the melon to the
side. An average tussle lasts about half an hou
and the good-natured contest which ensues creat
a frenZy of excitement. Winners of course ha
the privilege of eating the melon in front of t
losers,——From James N eeson, Director of Recr
ation, Cohoes, New York.

Question: What can be done to interest in t
playground program factory workers or employ
girls or mothers and fathers living in the vicini
of the playground? We jind it very difficult
get adults to come to the playground and take pa
in games and other activities.

Answer: One of the most effective ways
securing the interest of parents is to condu
special features in which their children take pa
and to have the children invite the parents to th
playground to witness their performance. Th
activity need not be one in which the individu
child is a star——in fact, it is better for the grou
if this type of performance is avoided on th ‘
playground. But by putting on plays, doll show
pet shows, a circus or a festival of some kind, yo
can get a large number of children to participat
in activities which they will want their mother
and fathers to witness. In these special affair-
costumes and materials are often necessary. Cos
tumes should be kept as simple and inexpensive a
possible, but frequently a mother will become curi
ous about what is happening on the playground
when her boy or girl comes home with the costum
or asks her help in making one.

The interest of parents can also be enlisted b
asking their cooperation in conducting some of th'
playground activities, especially events which re
quire additional adult leaders. We have in mind
such activities as picnics away from the play-
ground which mothers are usually happy to attend
and which give them an opportunity of feeling
that they are of some importance to the leader and
to the playground in assisting with the children
and some of the details of managing the picnic.

Sometimes mothers and fathers can be enlisted
to serve as judges in competitive events, although‘
it is important to use discrimination in asking-

\Q
(7r.
l' ~

(Continued on page 629)

 

7

WORLD AT PLAY

HARRISBURG’S
1937 Kipona held on
Labor Day opened
with the boom of a 75
millimeter gun and closed with the cus-
tomary “bombardment” of fireworks.
During the course of the ten hour water
carnival there were thirty-two swimming,
diving, motorboat, sailboat and canoe
events. These were run off in the after-
noon. For the setting of the evening’s
program eight poles were erected with
four large flood lights on the top of each.
These lights were focused on the lagoon
which presented a scenic fairyland setting.
A concert was given by the Harrisburg
American Legion Post band. The com-
munity sing, which was one of the fea-
tures of the evening’s program, was di-
rected from the lagoon. As the last song ended,
the Ship Kipona carrying Admiral J. Calvin
Frank and his staff left the side of the floating
platform and moved to the island. \Vhile the band
played, the parade of canoes and floats formed
led down the river by the Ship Kipona, to be
viewed by thousands of spectators crowded over
the mile and a half front.

Harrisburg’s
Kipona

 

THE Regional Plan
Association of N ew
York has made a study
of park developments
in the metrOpolitan area which shows that un-
precedented progress has been made in New York
City in the last four years in both the acquisition
of acreage and the development of existing areas.
The association stated that 48 per cent of its forty
year program for park acquisition in New York
City has become a reality in the last eight yea-rs.
Summarizing park progress since 1928, the state~
ment declared that at the end of that year New
York City had a public park acreage of 11,601.
At the close of 1936 the survey showed a total of
17,293 acres, parcels of less than one acre not
being taken into account. New park acreage
amounted to 3,250 acres, an increase of 23 per
cent over 1932.

Park Developments in
New York City

 

APPROXIMATELY
241,000 people partici-
pated in one or more
of the eighty different
forms of leisure-time activities offered by the De-
partment of Public Recreation of Danville, Il-
linois. on the park and community center play-
grounds during the 1937 season from June
through August. Twenty per cent of the total at-
tendance was recorded for children of twelve
years of age and under; 10 per cent for children
fourteen to sixteen years of age; 15 per cent for
young people between the ages of seventeen and
twenty, while 28 per cent of the total was com-
posed of adults twenty-one years of age and over.

The Summer in
Danville

 

AT the National Folk
Festival in Chicago,
lumberjacks from
Michigan and Wiscon-
sin sang ballads such as “Never Take the Horse—
shoe from the Door,” danced jigs. reels, clogs.
Kiowa Indians from Oklahoma, complete with
feathers and leg bells, wound through snake
dances, war dances and love dances. Students
from Berea College, Kentucky, sang a version of
the ballad “Barbara Allen” which Samuel Pepys
knew. A bonneted old lady of eighty-two quaver-
ed French pioneer songs that are still sung in Vin—

619

Our American
Folk Arts

620 WORLD AT PLAY 

cennes, Indiana. A stocky little ex-sailor who
used to sail before the mast sang sea chanteys
with more force than one would expect from a
man of eighty. There were miners from Pennsyl-
vania and cowboys from Texas. Mrs. Janie Brady
Jones, widow of the railroad engineer hero of the
famous folk song “Casey Jones” sat quietly on
the platform while a young man sang the story of

Casey’s death as millions of Americans know it..

Time. (From Readers Digest, October 1937.)

A Twenty-fifth Anniversary—On October
16th, the Boston School Committee climaxed the
celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of its
school centers with a birthday banquet. Among
the speakers were Dr. J. W. Studebaker, Com-
missioner of Education, Washington, D. C., James
G. Reardon, Commissioner of Education of Mas-
sachusetts, Michael J. Downey, assistant superin-
tendent in charge of school centers, Reverend
Michael J. Ahern, S.J., president of the Adult
Education Council of Greater Boston, and Mrs.
Eva Whiting White, formerly director of the Bos-
ton school centers. Tribute was paid to Mary P.
Follett who headed the citizens’ movement which
led to the creation of the centers, aided in draft-
ing plans and organizing them, and served from
1911 until her death in December 1933, as chair-
man of the Citizens’ Advisory Committee, De-
partment of the Extended. Use of the Public
Schools.

The anniversary celebration began October 1 1th
with a demonstration and exhibit of school center
activities, followed on October 14th by a musical
and dramatic night. This year fourteen centers
are in operation.

Administration Problems —The December
1936 issue of Parks and Recreation tells of a joint
meeting of park and recreation workers held in
Wisconsin in September 1936. Considerable at-
tention was given to the subject of forms of ad-
ministration, and as a result of the discussion it
was unanimously agreed that no city could pros-
per in a recreationally-minded manner which did
not have the full cooperation of all agencies hav-
ing play areas and buildings, and which did not
make these areas and buildings available to the
department which was authorized to conduct the
public recreation program. This discussion re-
sulted in the following resolution:

“That park boards, boards of education and
common councils cooperate to the fullest extent

with whichever agency is delegated to administer ’
the municipality’s recreational activities, and tha
all municipally owned recreation areas he made
available, to the end that all citizens may benefit." 3

The East Orange Little Theater Opens It
Season—The Little Theater of the city of Eas
Orange, New Jersey, sponsored by the Board 0
Recreation Commissioners, has announced the of
ferings for its 1937-38 season. Six major pro
ductions, the first of which was given in October
constitute the program. The plays are produced i
the Elmwood Park held house, an artistic build
ing housing a beautiful small auditorium whicl
seats 200 people and a stage equipped with ade j
quate lights and dimmers. In this building the work ,
shop activities of the Little Theater are conducted. .
There are talks on play production, stage craft, ' i
play reading and playwriting, and classes in make- I
up and costuming. Individual tickets are sold at
50 cents each; a season ticket for the six plays,
$2.50. Miss Frances H. Haire, Director of Rec—
reation, is president of the Little Theater.

Delinquency Decrease in Pueblo County,
Colorado -—J. A. Getts, City—County Director
of Recreation, Pueblo Recreation Commission,
calls attention to a report showing a marked de-
crease in juvenile delinquency in Pueblo City and
County, Colorado, during the past five years. “Ac-
cording to county and city ofhcials,” states the
Pueblo Chieftain for October 14, 1937, “the ,
noticeable decline in delinquency may be traced in
many cases directly to the Pueblo recreation pro-
gram, inaugurated in March 1933. In 1933 there
were 113 cases; in 1934, 72; in 1935, 111 ; in 1936,
58, and in 1937, 49. The records previous to 1933
reveal a much larger number of cases. Statistics
also show a marked decrease in the number of ju—
venile cases resulting in terms at the State In-
dustrial School at Golden. In 1934 there were 12
convictions; in 1937, only four. At the present
time there are but six Pueblo juveniles at Golden,
three of whom are “repeaters.” As the quota of
the Industrial School averages approximately 200
inmates, Pueblo is credited with having the small-
est percentage of cases at the institution today of
any county in Colorado in proportion to population.

A Forest Festival ,
(Continued from page 596)

have been added the grace and splendor of a beau-J.
tiful queen and her court.” The impressive strains'\!

a

l
i I

' .

    
   
   
   
   
     

f Oley Speaks’ “Sylvia” swelled across the sea of
olor as Queen Sylvia ascended her forest-backed
hite throne to commence her three-day reign as
ueen Sylvia, VIII.

Over 300 children and adults participated in the
rest pageant, “The Bird of Flame,” that im-
ediately followed the coronation ceremonies, cul-
inating weeks of careful rehearsals. The pag-
. nt, entirely pantomime except for occasional ex-
lanations from the public address system and the
perb musical setting, was most effectively stag-
d, costumed and executed. Each year an original
ageant is prepared for the occasion, based upon

forest theme and complete cooperation has
lways been the result.

   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    

The following day was given to wood chopping
nd sawing contests, fly and plug casting, riding
ournament and other events, terminating with the
rand feature parade made 11p of twenty-six band
nd drum corps from West Virginia and adjoin—
ng states with three miles of beautiful spectacu-
ar Hoats. Over 1,000 people made up the total of
he band personnel alone.

The horse show is another feature attraction

laving exhibitors from many of the eastern and
outhern states.

The streets of Elkins were dressed in the fall
olors of the forest—red, yellow, green and gold,
nd displays descriptive of all important conser-
[ ation activities were provided by various feder...
nd state agencies, together with handicraft and
ndustrial exhibits. One of the exhibition’s high-
ights this year was the original oil painting by
lames Montgomery Flagg that is now used by the
l orest Service, in poster form, in its campaign for
1 re prevention: “Your Forests—Your Fault—
Your Loss."

On the last day of the festival a tour of the
F onongahela National Forest was arranged which
ncluded the Stuart Forest Camp with its de-
eloped facilities for forest recreation, stirrounded
y the breath-taking splendor of the rich fall
‘olioration of the timbered hills.

' l
' 't
' It is customary to have a member of the Presi-
ent’s Cabinet at each annual festival and last year
he President of the United States honored the

estival with his presence. One could not help but
one away impressed and inspired from such a

.4 FOREST FESTIVAL ' ()2!

    

ATTENTION!!!

RECREATIONAL ADVISORS
Geology Instructors . . . Handicraft Instructors

Start the Next Semester Right with This NEW Addition to
Craft Projects: and Classroom Activities.

THE IOHNS GEM CUTTER

A complete. portable lapidary unit with a calibrated l92-angle facet
cutting attachment: will precision cut. grind. saw and mirror polish
flat cross-section surfaces. and cut microscopic thin sections from
mineral specimens for GEOLOGY students to study.

HANDICRAFT classes in metal jewelry making can now give stu-

dents a NEW outlet by making their own cabochon shaped stones or
brilliantly faceted gems to mount in rings. pins. bracrlets, etc.

o———.—_

Machine is complete with all equipment. abrasives and water reser-

voir system. Just set on any table in the classroom. Full instructions
for the beginner.

Nothing More Interesting. Fascinating. or Educational

Gem cutting now made easy with the new JOHNS GEM CUTTER

Price . . . without facet attachment . . . $18.55
with facet attachment . . . . . 27.50

(above prices do not include Motor)

Write for folder N or send 25c. for 20 page interesting. illustrated.
instruction booklet describing the fascinating art of gem cutting.
Refunded upon receipt of order.

THE IOHNS COMPANY SAPPINGTON. MO.

festival. The State of West Virginia has clearly
demonstrated the inspirational as well as the edu-

cational .value of pageantry and its relation to
forest conservation.

St. Valentine's Day Is Coming!

(Continued from page 599)

about from one c0t1ple to another. A couple must
take it when it is offered. When the music stops,
as it does at intervals, the couple holding the val-
entine must perform a stunt, either one given
them or one they choose.

"Love's Old Sweet Song.’l Valentine Day is the
most fitting time for old-time sentimental songs.
They are well known and hence easy to lead and

' fun to sing. Use a few of these: “Aunt Dina’s

Quilting Party,” “Love’s Old Sweet Song,”
“Juanita,” “Coming Through the Rye,” “East
Side, West Side,” “When Irish Eyes Are Smil-
ing,” “My Wild Irish Rose,” “Sweet Rosie

O’Grady,” or any of the songs these will bring to
mind.

Refreshments. The red and white colors of St.
Valentine’s Day will help you in choosing refresh-
ments. Punch, cream cheese and jelly sandwiches,
strawberry or raspberry ice cream and white cake
with red hearts are all appropriate. Be sure to get
some candy hearts with messages written on them.
It is fun to read the messages alou'd, or a number
may be arranged on the table to make a love let-
ter. The best letter might win a chocolate heart
for its maker.

622 SOME SPORTS AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT

 

      

HOW‘I'O ORGANIZE
9ND PROMOTE A '
HORSESHOE CLUB

  

 

  
     

  

EA CLE

RINGER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.

Some Sports and Their Development
( Continued from page 600)
breaths, they bellowed, “Long live the Emperor.’

 

 

1

And Then to Other Countries

While enthusiastic rulers and their unfortunate
minions were playing polo in China, the game was
being carried to far-off regions by the vast armies
of the emperor. Small rock-ribbed Tibet, helpless
in the hands of Chinese invaders, took to the
game, and with scarcely two feet of level ground
created its own fierce, dramatic version upon its
rocky slopes. From Tibet we get our word “polo,”
meaning the “willow knot,” which they used for a
ball. It is probably the only Tibetan word ever
contributed to the English language. From there
the game spread to India and continued to be
played for several hundred years until, with the
decline of the vast Mogul Empire, it gradually
died out. For 200 years after that one tribe alone
kept the game alive.

Unknown to white men or other Indians, the
Manipuris, inhabitants of a tiny rugged strip of
North India, played their own hard-hitting, fierce—
riding game. Not until one day in 1864 when the
Rajah of Manipur, on business in Calcutta, en—
gaged in a game with his retinue, did Englishmen,

horseback” which was being played in India. H l

    
   
  
 
  
 
    
   
  
  
  
     
 

see the sport. They were delighted with it and in-
sisted upon being taught to play. Before long
other natives, soldiers and civilians had taken it
up and polo had literally swept over India. Such
minor difficulties as hilly, rocky fields, the sudden
appearance of rhinos, tigers or hostile natives, did E
not daunt these early British enthusiasts. Their E
perseverance has been richly rewarded, for today

polo is played much more commonly in India than '
anywhere else in the world. 

The next logical step for polo was to go to
England. It happened this way. One day in 18 t ‘
an English officer of the Tenth Hussars chance 4
to read a description of the new “hockey o '
immediately organized a game with billiard ball
and curved walking sticks which proved, much t '
his chagrin, to be too short to reach to the ground. I
With better equipment he tried it‘again, and then .
began to train a team in real earnest. Soon h I
challenged another regiment to play. All London
society sallied forth to see the match, and it was
pronounced a huge success. In spite of this early
stir polo grew slowly in England because of th
difficulty of obtaining equipment, but in 1866, '
when the first international competition wit
America was held, the English public began to
take a genuine interest in the game that has
grown ever since.

In America, since its introduction in 1876, polo
has gained steadily in interest, chiefly centering
around competition with the British for the West— .
chester cup, and with frequent matches against
the Argentines.

Engineering—Material and Human

(Continued from page 603)

his death. He appointed an outstanding citizen of
Chicago and of Illinois—Robert J. Dunham—as
President of the new Park Board, and George
Donoghue again sat at the side of a man devoted
only to service of the people of the city, to wrestle
with new and staggering problems of bringing to I
solvency a park system many of the component -
parts of which were utterly insolvent, and of
welding into effectiveness as a unified organiza-'
tion an assembled group of organizations which .
had never worked together before, and which were
mutually suspicious of each other. Loyalty to the‘
public interest again demanded that the engineer‘—
grapple with new problems—"this time problems»

of finance and of human psychology. In the:

l

 

   
  
   
  
   

resident of the Board he had the able direction
f a master of big business operations, a man of
he most extraordinary abilities .and of vast busi-
ess experience. But there was a limit to any
ingle man’s capacity to deal as an individual with
o multiple a set of problems. Only by firing a
ew made organization into similar devotion could
, hey hope to succeed.

The task of building morale into the newly as-
embled organization fell largely on the shoulders
of the General Superintendent. Work in the gen-
eral office as they might, and did, from 9:00 in
the morning until II :00 at night, they had to de-
pend on similar devotion throughout the rank and
',file. There were no heroics of Napoleonic ap-

peals. There was, in fact, no mention of morale.

There appeared to be agreement only on the as-

sumption that morale is a thing into which men
' live their way, rather than something into which

they are evangelized. There were soft-spoken
conferences innumerable, conferences shot through
' with humor and human understanding. There was
man-to-man discussion, with no one overawed,
with every man’s outspoken thought solicited and
expressed, and thoughtfully received. Slowly
there began to develop a feeling throughout the
ntire organization that the challenge of the situa-
tion was addressed not to President Dunham and
IGeneral Superintendent Donoghue alone, but that
that challenge extended down to the leader of the
public group inrecreation, the janitor maintain-
ing the building, and the workman at his bench or
in the held—the challenge to unitedly produce for
o his city an accomplishment against almost over-

whelming odds; a thing that would stand as a
' monument throughout the future of his city. And

as that spirit spread, as the workers, from the

most exalted positions down to the humblest, be-

gan to feel the thrill of a resolve to do that job,

the general organization of the new park system
:came to the ultimate discovery that it had de-
.veloped a morale unawares.

That, in my opinion, is an accomplishment in
human engineering greater than the network of
boulevards, than the new Outer Drive Bridge,
sinking its supporting caissons down through
quicksands to bed rock, greater than the solution
to the problems of shore protection against islands
of ice, wind-driven to pound the timbers that pro-

‘ .' _tect park acres by the lake. It is an accomplish-
ment which marks George Donoghue an engineer,
not alone in the mastery of materials, but also in
the commanding of the spirit of man.

JAMES COUZENS MEMORIAL WEEK . 623

James Couzens Memorial

Week

 

THE WEEK of October 17th to 23rd was de-
clared, by Governor Frank Murphy, James

' Couzens Memorial Week in the schools of Michi-

gan as a tribute to the late Senator Couzens char-
acterized by Governor Murphy as “one of the
greatest friends the children of Michigan ever
had.” Senator Couzens died on October 22, 1936,
at the age of sixty-four.

Governor Murphy in his proclamation called at-
tention to Senator Couzens’ benefactions, among
them the convalescent home for crippled children
in Farmington; gifts totaling several million dol-
lars to the Children’s Hospital of Michigan; the
rebuilding of the school at Bath, and the estab-
lishment in 1929 of the Children’s Fund of Mich-
igan to which he gave $12,000,000 before he died
for the health, welfare and happiness of the chil—
dren of the state of Michigan. He gave over half
of his great fortune to help children who were
sick or crippled, his gifts amounting to more than
$20,000,000. '

“Because of these gifts andothers,” said the
Governor in his proclamation, “I deem it htting
to make the week of October 17th to 23rd a James
Couzens Memorial Week in the schools of Michi-
gan. As Governor of the State I ask the au—

624 THE RED MASK PLAYERS OF DANVILLE

What Our Readers Say About

School Activities

“1 think that this journal
(School Activities) is worthy
of a place in the library of
every school administrator
and should be available to
teachers everywhere."

(Signed)

LEROY E. COWLES. Dean
Universitiy of Utah

“1 had the School Activi-
ties Magazine the most valu-
able one placed npon my
desk. There are so many
practical things inside that
one may use in his own
school. I never expect to be
without it as long as I am
connected with schoolwork."

(Signed)

E. V. CORE, Principal
Union High School
Union, West Virginia

 

Successful educators everywhere are using
School Activities. We invite you to join this
rapidly growing group of school people who
are using this keen tool to improve their work.

Send us your subscription order immediately.
\Ve are certain School Activities will not dis-
appoint you ;—if it does, just cancel your sub-
scription after you receive the first issue.

Subscription Price $2.00

School Activities Pub. Co.
1515 Lane Street

Topeka, Kansas

thorities in charge of each school to set aside at
least an hour on some day of that week in which
the children may review the life of this great
philanthropist. The example set by such a man is
a dynamic educational power in itself. Let us as
teachers call attention to his goodness in service
in the hope that the children of our state will
emulate him in these things when they become of
age and assume the responsibilities of citizenship.”

Senator Couzens was deeply interested in the
work of the Department of Recreation of De-
troit and did much to further it. C. E. Brewer,
Commissioner of Recreation, writes that during
the time Senator Couzens’ was Mayor of Detroit,
from 1918 to 1923, he gave whole—hearted sup-
port to the Department of Recreation. He was
very sympathetic in the consideration of the bud-
get of the department when it was submitted to
him. And the budget increased from $230,000 in
1918 to approximately $410,000 in 1923. During
his administration a bond issue was passed for the
acquisition of new parks, playgrounds and play

.year, a person may become a member. Member

 

   
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
    
 
 

fields, and approximately $11,000,000 was ex
pended for the acquisition of live parks an
twenty—four playgrounds and play fields whic
added greatly to the recreational facilities of th
c1ty.

?‘

The Red Mask Players of Danville

(Continued from page 604).

demonstration by Jack Stuart Knapp of the ..
tional Recreation Association; in February, Pla
Reading Night—“The First Lady” by Katherin
Dayton and George Kaufman; in March, One
Act Play Night, when the following plays wer J
staged and produced—-—“Sir Galahad,” “Swam
Spirit” and “A Man Among Women.” The pla
“Sir Galahad,” was written by Mrs. Fred Robi
son, a member of the Little Theater and was pro
duced ‘for the first time on this night.

 

Upon application and payment of $2 dues pe

ship entitles a person to attend all productions
reading and discussion grOUps, and to take par

in any production, subject to the approval 0
the casting committee. On applying for member
ship an individual designates whether he cares t
be an active member of the group. He may be in
terested 'in acting, painting scenes or designin
sets, or he may choose to be simply a playgoer o
listener and not to participate actively.

The Second Season Opens

A public presentation of George Kaufman’s de
lightful comedy “To the Ladies” on the nightio
November 4th inaugurated the 1937-38 season
The cast played to an audience of 400, and mem
bership in the theater has already more tha
doubled last year’s figure of 40. This year’s plan
will include monthly programs through May, 1938
and will have such. interesting features as tw
evenings fashioned after last year’s radio success
“Do You Want to Be an Actor i”; play readin I
nights, two evenings of three one-act plays; a
lecture by a radio representative on “Radio
Drama,” two three-act plays and a number of in—‘
teresting discussion and demonstration groups.

The name adopted for the grOUp, “The Re .
Mask Players,” is significant. At all production 
the ushers wear red satin masks. The name by

.1

 

   
        

Swimming Pool Data and
Reterence Annual

(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested

in swimming pools in any way.

 
  

   
    
   

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

mbol have proven attractive and are helpful in
rogram publicity.

From the germ of an idea in the minds of a few
eople the theater has become an entity. We have
fertile field in’our community and our ambition
w . that our “Red Maskers” will grow to be a
elinite influence and a civic institution.

he Elementary School oi Tomorrow

(Continued from page 607)

f opportunity, especially for those children who

their homes or in'their residential area are be-
g denied by civilization contact with the out of
ors, understanding of living things, and oppor—
nity for normal life.

‘ ith the Union County Camera Club

(Continued from page 608)

at at least half a dozen other active photography
oups have been organized in the county during
e past year.

 As a result of the educational program of the
v nion County club and of the activity of other
: mera groups, definite improvement in quality was

   
      
     
      
   
    
   
     
    
    
  

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 625

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles l
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

   

 
     

MAGAZINES

Parents’ Magazine, November 1937

Play School for the Very Young, by Ruby Mack
Bush

Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

National Parent-Teacher, November 1937

Toys and Play Equipment for All Ages, by. Ethel
B. Wright

The Nation’s Schools, September 1937

Win or Lose—But Play! by Ethel Perrin
Down with Delinquency—Adventures in C00pera-
tive Recreation, by Virgil M. Rogers

Survey Graphic, November 1937
Civilizing Hallowe’en, by Frances Somers

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

November 1937

The History of Sport, by Seward C. Staley .
Carry Over of School Athletics, by Emily I. Case
Archery Golf, by Harlan G. MJetcalf

Parents’ Magazine, December 1937
Rooms Planned Around Hobbies, by Elizabeth Dunn
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Character Magazine, October 1937

These Boy Gangs, by W. Martin Butts -
The Growing Network of American Youth Hostels,

by Kenneth Lancaster
Civil Engineering, December 1937
Recreational Planning for Urban Population, by
Justin R. HartzOg
Scholastic Coach, December 1937
The Philosophy of Athletics, by E. B. Stansbury

National Parent-Teacher, December 1937

Game List for the Family
Let’s Have a Hobby

Child Life, December 1937
Child Life Hobby Club

PAMPHLETS

The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences—Seventy-sixth
Annual Reporlt

Learning by Living—Annual Report of the Westchester
County, N. Y., Recreation Commission, 1936

Sixteenth Report of the Superintendent of Public Play-
grounds, Regina, Sask., 193?

Twentieth Annual Report of the Flint Community Music
Association, 1936-1937

Great Falls, Montana, Recreation Association Report

1936-1937

National Resources Committee Progress Report,

October 1937 .
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.10.

Health Education Bulletin, November 1937
National Board of Y. W. C. A. $.25.

626

Special
Announcement

to

All who are interested in better
character education.

‘7

Every successful worker in character education,
personality guidance and community organization
needs the best resource material.

The magazine, CHARACTER, edited by J. M. Art-
man, furnishes the most authoritative interpretation
of character education, personality development and
community organization now published.

Articles by authorities in, their fields interpret the
latest findings regarding the current character stand-
ards as practiced in everyday life; the present out-
look of the family, the church, the school as agencies
of 'charaeter education; the progress in character
education of the specialized leisure time agencies,
such as the Y’s, Se0uting, Camp Fire, Boys’ Clubs,
Camps, etc.

Especial attention is given to the community as a
whole—the cooperation or lack of‘ it between the
various agencies in the community.

CHARACTER comes to you 10 times a year (except-
ing July and August) to help you understand and
vision your part in the greatest of all endeavors--
that of developing people with character values ade-
quate for our nation and time.

You may Subscribe as follows:

1. 1 Year CHARACTER . . . . $1.50

2. "UNTYING APRON STRINGS" $1.00

3. CHARACTER. 1 year and
"UNTYING APRON STRINGS" $2.00

Wm

Send your orders to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILL.

WINTER OUTDOOR SPORTS IN ST. PAUL

  
   
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

shown in the photographs submitted in the Par
Commission’s second annual camera competitio
as contrasted with the previous year’s entries.
The photograph appearing as the frontispiec
on page 586 of this month’s issue of RECREATIO
was one of fifty-six entries in the first annu
competition of theclub. It was submitted by Ra
Losey of 605 Locust Street, Roselle Park, Ne

Jersey.

Winter Outdoor Sports in St. PaUl

(Continued from page 610)

Hickory Dickory Dock, the Mouse Went—
Three Little Pigs and Big Bad Wolf
Little Tommy Tucker

The Lion and the Unicorn

Old Mother Hubbard and Her Cupboard
The Saucer and the Spoon

The Cow Jumped Over the Moon
Mother Goose and the Little Red Hen
The Three Bears

Bo-Peep and Her Sheep

Cobbler, Cobbler, Make  Shoe

King Cole and Fiddlers Three

Wee Willie Winkie

Black Hen and Her Eggs

Humpty Dumpty Who Sat on the Wall
The Black Bird Pie

Peter Rabbit in the Cabbage Patch
Three Blind Mice and Farmer’s Wife

The exhibits on playgrounds will be judged an
awarded with suitable pennants for first, secon
third, fourth and fifth places. The downtow
contest will be judged by the City Carnival Com
mittee and at least ten places will be awarde

which will be on the following basis:

1 to 100 per cent—resemblance to assigned or nam
subject.

1 to 100 per cent—artistic and natural details in all part

1 to 100 per cent—cleanliness of surroundings, tidine
around subject, such as disposal of debris and ext
snow.

1 to 100 per cent—colors and extras, such as fences an
other background or extras that are not part of t
subject but serve as tillers to make the subject stan
out

The above percentage total will be divided bi I

four and the following points added:

1 point for every child worker 15 years of age or under
provided he worked at least two hours on the actuzF
exhibit. .: 

% point for every person over 16 years of age, provide
he actually worked on the exhibit at least two hours.

The sum of the one—fourth of the percenta _
score plus'the added points for workers shall H
the final score for each playground. \ ,

ii

 

   
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

Community Ice Festivals

Ice festivals will be sponsored by the Play-
round Booster Clubs in the various communities.
en suggestions for such festivals follow:

I. Selection and coronation of festival queen or
he most popular girl in the community. This
hould be done with due ceremony and parade at
throne or ice palace built of snow or ice by the
ommunity people.

2. Speed skating races for all age groups.

3. Figure and fancy skating exhibitions ac-
ompanied by music.

4. Novelty stunts on ice, such as clown acts,
hariot races, skateless races, pushmo races, one
kate races, barrel jumping. ‘

5. Broomball, ice baseball, ice basketball games.

6. General skating to band music, costume
parade on skates, group drill on skates.

7. Fireworks display, miniature fioat parade by
i children using sleds, decorated, torch and lantern
parade on skates around the rink.

8. Sliding on skis, barrel staves, can covers,
sleds by the small folks.

9. Dog races and, where possible, cross country

ski run.
10. Bonfire and barbecue or bouillon to be served.

And This Is How It Started!

(Continued from page 612)
is the old English game of S quails. In this game

discs are snapped or struck with the palm from
the edge of a table or board at a mark at its cen-
ter. In the 18th century another variety of the
game sprang up. This game was called Jervis or
Jarvis and was played On a table marked with
chalk into alleys which in turn were divided into
squares numbered from one to nine or ten. The
object of this game was to send a ha—penny into a
high-numbered space. The maker of the highest
score in a certain number of plays won.

'Shuffleboard

Shuffieboard is still another game authorities
believe began in England. This game was first
mentioned in I 541 when Henry VIII forbad by
law the playing of the game.

Some of the early names of the game are
Shove-grout, Shovel-Penny and Slide-grout. It
was very popular with the aristocracy in England
and was a favorite pastime at the great country
houses. A great many of the early boards were of
exquisite workmanship. The board at Chartley
Hall in Staffordshire was over 30 feet long and
was made up of 260 pieces.

 

AND THIS IS HOW IT STARTED!

UNTYING
APRON STRINGS

A Great Book for Parents. Teachers. and other
Community Leaders. for Adolescent Young

PeopIe. For Yourself .

V'V

It’s a guidebook of personality development as easy
to read as the daily newspaper; yet it will help you
understand the personality problems of children,
and set you on the way to becoming a better and
happier person yourself.

If you havetechnical training in psychology, you
will recognize it as accepted scientific knowledge—
and you will appreciate its readable form.

If you do not have a technical background, it will
open up a New World to you, a world in which
difficulties you thought were inevitable can be
avoided or cured—and it is no harder to under-
stand—and even more fascinating—than an ad-
venture story.

The Chapter Headings give you a bird’s—eye view
of the book:

I

WARPED PERSONALITY PATTERNS

Emotions the Motivating He Likes to “Show-Off”
Forces of Personality ‘ He Loves to Punish

He Goes Back to Mother’s He Isn’t Happy Unless He
Arms Is Miserable

His Hand Against the He Feels Inferior
World In Love With Himself

He Enjoys Poor Health Love That Never Grows Up

ADJUSTMENT

The Attitude of the Adult Boy and Girl Relationships
Who Would Help A Directing Philosophy

Approach Through Voca- Personality Development in
tional Interests and the School Community
Hobbies Religion (With Apologies to

Self-Understanding the Church)

The book alone is $I.00.

The book plus a year's subscription to

‘ CHARACTER MAGAZINE is $2.00

VVV

S and Your Order to

CHARACTER ASSOCIATES. Inc.

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILL.

 

627

628 “FUN” TRAINS!

" Fun" Trains!

A H risking Bee Train. Winter sports and hik-
ing trains have become well known, but now
comes a new variety, for on October 23rd 492
lighthearted young men and women from New
York City boarded the husking bee train sponsor—
ed by the New York, New Haven and Hartford
Railroad and journeyed for over two hours to
Kent, Connecticut. During the trip straw hats
were given to the men and sunbonnets to the
women, and a bearded old-time hddler and an ac-
cordion player entertained the group. -Arriving
at Kent at supper time, the travelers were’ met by
members of the Kent Grange who served a coun-
try supper on gaily decorated tables. Important
on the menu were the beans, baked for nineteen
hours in a pit in the ground, and the homemade
pies of which there were over a hundred. After
supper the “reds” lined on one side of the hall,
the “yellows” on the other, and on “go” they
rushed to the corn on the stalks lying in front of
them. An encouraging number of red ears turned
up! Apples were distributed and all the cider any-
one could drink was provided. Social dancing,
square dances and games followed in the grange
hall to the tune of a Hillbilly band which put on
a special stunt ashow. Local grange members
demonstrated square dances. At 12:15 A. M. the
travelers boarded the train homeward bound with
ears of corn, pumpkins and other tokens of the
first husking bee!

A Bicycle Train. A “bike train” excursion was
conducted in August under the auspices of the
Milwaukee Railroad and the Outing Clubs of the
Chicago Park District. The train carried bicycle
enthusiasts to Union Grove and Binghamton,
Wisconsin.

A Hobby Train. On October 10th a hobby
train left Detroit, Michigan, filled with railroad
fans and amateur photographers bound for Lima,
Ohio, where a group of 600 hobbyists visited the
Lima locomotive works to inspect a number of
new streamlined Steam locomotives. The exhibit
included a display of miniature models of loco-

motives. At Lima the travelers were joined by'

other enthusiasts arriving on special trains from
Chicago, Indianapolis and Cincinnati. Camera

shops offered special awards for pictures taken by
the hobbyists.

Adult Recreation
(Continued from page 614)

reation will be an important factor, will be most I

. only 7 which increased them.

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

effective in activities developed by the peopl
themselves, guided by a farsighted recreatio
leader who will lead their interests along channel
that will give to them the fullness of life that on]
leisure properly used can give.

Recent Trends in Year-Round

Recreation Administration
(Continued from page 616)-

reported an increase than a decrease. The par

authorities, for example, showed only a 7% de
crease in the total number of workers, but 16 par
agencies reduced their workers as compared wit“

1). A comparison of the number of playground
reported in the two years showed a total increas
of 41% for the 172 agencies. The greatest in
crease was recorded by the recreation depart
ments (60%), and the least by the park authori
ties (14%). “Other authorities” was the only
group in which more agencies decreased the num
ber of playgrounds than increased them, although
this group as a whole showed an increase in the
number of playgrounds of 54%.

c. The average increase in the number of indoor
centers for the 172 agencies during the period was
129%. The greatest increase (161%) was re-
corded by recreation departments, the least (76%)
by school authorities, although 15 out of the 16
individual school authorities reported more indoor
centers in 1936 than in 1928.

In general, no marked change in the type of
local government of recreation between 1928 and
1936 was revealed by the study, nor are there any
significant figures denoting marked trends in the
service provided by the four types of local manag-
ing authorities during this period. The figures in-
dicate, however, that on the Whole recreation de~
partments made a better showing during the pe-
riod 1928-1936 than the other three types.

From the findings of these two studies it is
apparent that:

1. Increasingly cities are considering recreation as
a distinct municipal function and for its ad-
ministration are establishing a separate depart-
ment, in most cases under a recreation board
or commission. .

2. In the period 1923-1933 the greatest progress
in local recreation service was made in cities
where recreation was administered by a recre—
ation board. During the early years of the de- ..
pression local recreation service was most fully
maintained in cities with recreation boards.
Since 1928 recreation has fared better in cities . _
in which it is administered as a separate func- ° 7
tion, whether under a board or independent

 

  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
   

executive than in cities where it is under some
other department.

. Between 1923 and 1928 there was a large in—
crease in the number of cities establishing year-
round recreation programs. Since 1928 prog-
ress has been slower and there have been no
marked changes since that date in the percentage

under different types of managing authority.

 

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 618)

arents to officiate because even when there is no
rtiality shown there is 'sometimes the danger
at other parents will feel‘ that the judges have
isplayed favoritism when their own boys and
'rls are participants. This is especially true if
y of the children of the parents who are judg-
ing happen to win.

To interest the older boys and girls it is neces-
ry first of all to conduct activities which are
finitely appealing to them—night volley ball and
oftball'games, social dancing if there is a place
your playground and dancing is practicable in
ur situation. Some of the older boys and men
ke horseshoe pitching and such quiet games as
eckers and chess. The older girls may be in-
rested in handcraft, although most girls who
ave been working all day prefer some form of
hysical activity. Folk dancing is popular on many
laygrounds but—it is frequently difficult to intro-
uce unless an interest has been created in the
ommunity previously.

In organizing a program for adults it is fre-

uently necessary in the beginning to extend per-
onal invitations and to discover the children on
e playground who have older brothers and sis-
rs and parents who might be interested in at-
nding. With these leads the director may find
necessary to pay personal calls to the homes of
number of individuals to create an interest in
e activities on the playground. If you once get
small group started in coming you will probably
ave little difficulty in interesting others. Usually
is only necessary to find a nucleus that will
read the word and interest others.
Some cities have formed playground associa-
ons to which parents in the neighborhood of the
arious playgrounds belong. The purpose of these
sociations is not so much to take part in activi-
s as to create support for the playground and to
lster the program with the support of the
mmunity.

of cities with year-round recreation programs .

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF AUDUBON SOCIETIES MEETS 629

The National Association of
Audubon Societies Meets

HE THIRTY-THIRD Annual Convention of the
National Association of Audubon Societies
was held at the American Museum of Natural
History in New York City from October 22 to 26.

The Camp Reunion dinner was a joyful occa-
sion for those who had attended the Audubon
Nature Camp at Hog Island, Maine. Friends and
guests of the Association had an opportunity to
observe the fine enthusiasm of the staff and camp—
ers. On Saturday morning a group of eighty-six
people set out on a two day field trip to Cape May
Point, New Jersey. Sunday morning ninety-four
people gathered at 6 A. M. for a trip to Montauk
Point, Long Island, Stops were made at various
bird refugees en route and more than ninety kinds
of land and shore birds and waterfowl were
observed on the Sunday trip.

The papers prepared for the convention meet-
ings covered these general topics: The need for
wildlife protection and the necessity of additional
sanctuaries in Texas and Florida; two proposed
national park areas, the Big Bend section of Texas
and the Everglades of Florida; the research ac-
tivity of the Biological Survey, the present status
of migratory waterfowl, and the areas mentioned
by theBiological Survey for their protection; the
program and needs of the 4H Clubs in nature
education and conservation promotion; and re-
ports of field observations by Audubon research
fellows studying desert bighom sheep and the
ivory-billed woodpecker.

Reports of conservation projects and nature
education activities in various parts of the coun-
try were given by representatives of affiliated
groups. Excellentmovies taken by amateurs as
well as professionals were used to illustrate pa-
pers and as interesting interludes in the program.
Demonstration conferences were staged by mem-
bers of the camp staff and enrolees to illustrate
part of the‘method used in training students at ,
the Audubon Nature Camp for adult leaders.

At the annual dinner of the Association, Dr.
Arthur A. Allen of Cornell spoke of his experi-
ences during the last season while making the reels
of sound motion pictures that were shown. Water-
fowl and song birds of the eastern region of the
United States were the subjects of these pictures.

630 THE AMERICAN LEGION AND RECREATION IN MINNESOTA

SAFETY FOR

Supervised Plaggrnunds
‘ Juft' of the press

A 28 page pamphlet on safety in
relation to playground administra-
tion and activity programs. Contains
sections on physical conditions; the
use of apparatus; representative
safety programs; organization of
patrols and safety clubs, games,
handcraft activities and campaigns.

Price 25 cents

SAFETY EDUCATION
MAGAZINE

provides material for a well-round-
ed safety program based on sea-
sonal hazards. The colored posters,

‘ graded lesson outlines, plays, stor-
ies, informational articles, accident
facts, patrol news items and other
features are prepared by school
people who are experts in the field
of safety teaching.

, Subscription - $1.00 a Year

EDUCATION DIVISION
NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL

One Park Avenue

New York. N. Y.

The American Legion

and Recreation in Minnesota

N MINNESOTA, before April 1937, there was n
I provision in law permitting cities and village
(except Duluth, Minneapolis and St. Paul and .
very few others operating under home rule char
ters) to spend public funds for the support 0
recreational activities. At the State Conventio '
of the American. Legion in 1936 a resolution we
adopted proposing that the Legion should exer
its influence toward obtaining the, passage of a
enabling recreation law. After several months 0
hard work on the part of committee members an
other interested groups a recreation law wa
passed on April 15, 1937.

The Recreation Act makes possible legally th .
expenditure of public funds by any city, villag
borough, town, county, school district or an
board thereof for the promotion of recreation
Such governmental units may cooperate in pro
moting recreation or delegate the responsibility t
a board. School facilities may now be used twelv
months a year and school boards may employ in
structors and playground directors for the sum '
mer months.

It was recommended at the state conventio .
that the American Legion Committee on Recrea
tion be a standing one consisting of seven mem
bers, one to be the Department Adjutant (a con I
tinuing member), one to be a member of th}
Legion Auxiliary and five to be American Legio
members. Six are appointed by the Departmen
Commander and serve three-year terms, excep
for the first committee which shall have stag 
gered appointments so that two members will b
appointed each year. It was further recommended
that the American Legion baseball in Minnesota
be under the jurisdiction of the Recreation Com
mittee and that from the committee membershi
the director of junior baseball be chosen. Th
recommendations were adopted by the Executive
Council of the Minnesota American Legion on
November 5, 1937.

Through a questionnaire sent by the Recrea-
tion Committee to 471 local American Legion
Posts it was learned that many Posts are sponsor- I
ing holiday celebrations and similar events, are
providing funds for varied forms of community
recreation, are aiding in securing swimming pools,
parks, play areas and facilities of many types, and,
are performing many services of value in the de£=
velopment of their communities’ recreational life\§ ;

rip
A.

    

y l

i

  

  

The Country Dance Book

y Beth Tolman and Ralph Page. The Countryman

Press Inc., \Veston, Vermont, and Farrar and Rim-
hart, New York. $2.00.

ERE IS A BREEZY and spritely book on New England
country dances which is a gold mine of material for
he leader of square or other country dances. The title
age reveals the contents: “The Old-Fashioned Square
ance, Its History, Lore, Variations and Its Callers.

irections for grand marches, quadrilles, jigs, reels, horn-
ipes, polkas, round dances and “freaks and furbelows”
re included. Difficult points are illustrated in a de-
ightfully unusual way, music is either given or a source
listed, and the directions and instr ctions are simple and
‘ lear so that even the uninitiated m y follow them easily.

Primitive and Pioneer Sports

y Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes & Co., New York.
$2.50.

ERE IS A 342 page book for “regular fellows” of any age

and a source book for recreation and camp leaders
seeking “sure-fire” boys’ activities emphasizing imagina-
ive and individualized play. The picturesque games of
bushmen, cowboys and woodsmen are described with ex-
plicit directions and many simple, clear illustrative dia-
grams and drawings. If you would have full directions
or making and throwing boomerangs and rbomba birds,
spinning a rope, tying trick knots with a lariat or throw-
ing a lariat, planning rope exhibitions and contests,
racking a whip, spinning the serpentine, throwing a
oniahawk, making blowguns and darts or log rolling,
consult this volume.

Youth—A World Problem

By “7. Thacher Winslow. National Youth Administra-

tion. Government Printing Ofiice, Washington, D. C.
$.25.

THE SUBTITLE of this interesting compilation gives the
key to its contents—“A Study in World Perspective
of Youth Conditions, Movements and Programs.” In
bringing the material together for the booklet the Na-
tional Youth Administration had the assistance of the
Department of State which requested the United States
onsuls stationed all over the world to submit reports
oncerning youth conditions and programs in their re-
pective countries. The material in the booklet, except
or the section dealing with the United States, is based
lmost entirely upon the information contained in these
eports and upon the Grey-Blue Report of the 1935 In-
ernational Labor Conference on “Unemployment Among
oung Persons.” Recreation _'workers will want to add
to their libraries this report of the situations in which
youth finds itself in the various countries of the world.

—'a.— .—

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

mplete and Joyful Instructions.” In addition, calls and"

  
     
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   

Banquet Suggestions For Girls
and Their Mothers

help in planning banquets at which their mothers will be
entertained will do well to put this attractive mimeo-
graphed booklet on their list of practical aids. Plans are
offered for seventeen different types of banquets and
suppers. There are program hints and suggestions for
decorations. A statement regarding costs accompanies

some of the programs and throughout ways of keeping
expenses down are kept in mind.

Camp Stoves and Fireplaces

By A. D. Taylor, A. B., M.S. United States Forest Ser-

vice. Obtainable from the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Washington, D. C. $1.50.

HE FOREST SERVICE of the United States Department of

Agriculture, in developing the recreational resources
of the national forests, has studied carefully and exten-
sively the types of camp stoves and fireplaces best adapt-
ed to use under varying conditions. The result of the
study is this book containing two pages on each type,
one page telling of adaptation to location and use, design
and construction and variations possible and the other
page giving a sketch of the completed unit and plan, ele—
vation and section drawings to aid in the construction.
Simple and complex cooking fireplaces and stoves, bar-
becue pits and ovens, fireplace shelters, warming fires
and camp fires, fireplaces within shelters, construction de-
tails, good and bad stonework, undesirable types and

much general material of aid to the fireplace builder are
included in this valuable book.

It's Fun to Build Things

By W. T. R. Price. Hillman-Curl, Inc., New YOrk.
$1.50.

HIs BOOK for the beginner in woodwork is practical
and clearly written. And the entertaining way in
which mistakes are anticipated will eliminate many of
them. The author explodes the theory that elaborate tool
kits are needed to accomplish good work. Mr. Price

starts with simple projects and works up to more dif-
iicult ones.

Rediscovering the Adolescent

By Hedley S. Dimock. Association Press, New York.
$2.75.

Two HUNDRED BOYS, twelve to fourteen years of age, at

the beginning of the study were observed Systemati—
cally for a period of two years. The data that resulted
made possible a description of the adolescent boy and his

631

637 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

d

development from twelve to sixteen years of age. The
author of this book attempts to discover what effect the
period of pubescence has on the play pursuits of the ado-
lescent, his personality and behavior, his choice of friends,
his emancipation from parents, his moral and religious
thinking and a number of other closely allied subjects. The
findings of this study are said to be startlingly in con-
fiict with “what everyone knows.” This fact in itself
makes the book an interesting study.

Mr. Dimock recognizes the importance of play in the
life of the adolescent when he says, “Play interests and
behavior are central . . . in the development of the adoles-
cent. They possess possibilities that are pertinent to his
education for leisure, the satisfaction of his basic per-
sonality needs and desires, the formation of social atti-
tudes and habits, and the revitalizing of contemporary
education.” ,

The author attempted to get the facts on such prob—
lems as these: “How do the play interests and activities
of the adolescent 'dierr from those of the preadolescent?
Is there any evidence that changes in play interests dur-
ing adolescence are related to the physiological changes
of pubescence? How can the degree of popularity or ac-
ceptability which a boy has in a group be most accurately
determined?” In reply to these and numerous other ques-
tions the author states, “The sifting of all this data yields
no factual grounds for assuming an important association
between pubescence and play behavior. We are forced to
the tentative conclusion that pubescence plays a negligible
rOIe in determining the play interest of adolescent boys."

While old and commonly accepted theories are chal-
lenged throughout the book, yet one is conscious that the
challenge lies in the facts presented and not in the opin-
ions of the author. The facts are so arranged in pictorial
form that their implication is clear.

Parties.

By Hazel Carter Maion. E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.,
New York. $2.50.

The author of this book believes that fun is the goal of
any party, and since fun for the young person is one
thing, and for the sub-deb another, and still another for
older people, she has divided the book into three parts.
The first contains parties for. Youngsters, the second for
the Young-and-Limber and the third for PeOple—Who-
Like—to-Stay-Young. Each party is complete from invi-
tation to “GOOd—Bye,” with suggestions for decorations,
games, and here and there a special recipe. Parties are
planned not only for the usual holidays but there are
parties with novelty themes, indoor and outdoor parties,
boys’ parties, girls’ parties, dances, showers and break—

fasts and suppers.

Municipal and County Parks in the
United States 1935.

National Park Service, Washington, D. C.

In 1925-26 the National Recreation Association, at the
request of the National Conference on Outdoor Recrea-
tion, made a study of municipal and county parks in the
United States. The American Institute of Park Execu—
tives cooperated in the study. Much of the important sta-
tistical data gathered was issued by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in Bulletin No. 462. This publication proved
of such value that a similar study was conducted in 1930
by the National Recreation Association in cooperation
with the Bureau of'La‘bor Statistics. The findings of the
study were published in Bulletin No. 565 of the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. The usefulness of these two reports
and the rapid expansion of park areas during the past
few years made it apparent that a further study was de—
sirable. Accordingly the National Park Service, in co-
operation with the National Recreation Association, made
a study in the year 1935 under the direction of George
D. Butler of the Association. Valuable clerical assistance
was given in the preparation of the report by the Divi-
sion of State Planning of the State of New York.

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

How to Watch a Football Game.

By Mal Stevens and Harry Shorten. Leisure Leagu
of America. $.25.

Are you a football fan? If you are, perhaps you wil
not need this book. If you want, however, to under
stand the game this booklet will dissipate the clouds 0
mystery which always hover over it for the uninitiated
You will know just what is meant when you hear th
howl, “It’s a touchdown!”—just how it was scored, wha
strategy led to its culmination and what plays paved th
way.

Girl Scout Diary for 1938.
Girl Scouts, Inc., New York. $.10.

The new year rolls around and the Girl Scouts put 'ou
a new Girl Scout Diary for the recording of majo
events of each day. It is a pocket-size booklet with in
serts oflGirl Scout requirements, nature facts, hrst —'
and safety hints, camp craft and other good—to-kno
things, illustrated with lively sketches. So, if nothin
exciting happens on July 31st, the diarist, while chewin
her pencil,_glances at sketches of insect craftsmen an
insect musicians on that page and finds that the day i
not without adventurous discovery after all!

Your National Capital —-

Seventy-Fifth Congress. International Bank, .72
Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. $.50.

This volume of a hundred pages contains more than
fifty views of the national capital and other places of his-
toric interest, together with individual photographs of th
entire membership of Congress. It is a pictorial presen-
tatiorn of the nation’s capital and of a history-making
epoc .

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTNUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOIIN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. I-IASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind,

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

I. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKRN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JONN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

