The Reality of Recreation

HAT is real, lasting, permanent, abiding?
Machines? Engines? Roads? Bridges? Tunnels? Skyscrapers?
These wear out and must be replaced.
These are constantly changing.
What abides is what cannot be touched, cannot be seen, cannot be measured.
The mother playing with her child is never forgotten. '

David and Jonathan hunting and fishing, walking and talking—“good companions”—understand-

ing each other—able really to communicate with each other about things that matter——
perhaps w1thout words, a comradeship that gives meaning to days, to time.

Beautyu—the beauty of road, of trees, of mountains remains remembered after the road, the
trees—yes, even the mountains perhaps are no more.

Pianos and violins change, but their music is remembered. The sound of the ocean, the sound
of the w1nd in the trees enters into men’s souls from generation to generation.

Sports. Bats and balls change, chariots give way to automobiles, to aeroplanes, but the race
goes on. Each century has its own forms of ball games. But sport ever commands the
spirit of men. And the tales of sport are passed down from Homer even unto modern
times.

Nature. The flowers in the garden change from day to day. Yesterday the bud—today the
-:" blossom and tomorrow the glory of color that will be gone ere another dawn. Yet the
memory of Nature is eternal in the soul of Man from aeon t0 aeon.

A dog’s life is short yet there is no sympathy and understanding so deep as that of your dog as
he nuzzles you when you are low of spirit.

Books. NIere collections of words—ink on paper. Yet the thoughts of Jesus, Aristotle, Shakes-
peare, Dante, Goethe are shared— as the rain comes down without and the wind howls.
One is a member of a goodly company with common interests. But the book has reality
only as a living soul comes to it to give meaning to its symbols.

Machines, engines, roads, bridges, tunnels, skyscrapers, even books have meaning and reality
when living men use them, use them to ride up and across, use them for comradeship,
for beauty, for sport, for worship, for putting together a world for the soul of man.

Machines, engines, roads, bridges, tunnels, skyscrapers are not ends in themselves. Build them
we must. But building them is not nearly as important as building or rather growing a

life, an immortal soul.

Work there must be for every one—of course—much of it making and serving machines. Sb
there must be air to breathe and water to drink and good solid earth to tread upon.

But after that what? M

We do not talk all the time about the air we breathe, or the water we drink or the earth we
walk upon. We take these elemental things for granted.

Man must harvest the wheat and the cotton, cut the wool, pump the oil, build machines and yet
more machines, fashion the steel into buildings.

But What then?
Man was made to sing, to dance, to run and not be weary, to sail the seas, to climb the skies, to
adventure, to find beauty, to create beauty, to find romance.

NIan was made to do his duty—~yes-——but without talking about it all the time.

Work is no God to be worshipped.
I will not bow down to the machines, engines, roads, bridges and tunnels which man himself

has made—as if they were the end of life.
I will bow down before life itself, before life abundantly lived.

Some day in the not too distant future—~if we are ready to will it—we shall think and talk
more of beauty, sport, adventure, art, literature, of life and of God.

And work and machines like the breathing of air and the drinking of water will be taken for
granted in their proper place.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

SEPTEMBER I938

 

321

Courtesy Oakland, Calif., Recreation Department P] b O
wto y akland Tribune Staf

322

 

The Professional in Recreation

and

His Responsibility for

By
BRUCE B. ROBINSON, M. D.

advantage over most other professions from
the standpoint Of personality. For good per-
sonality development, a good recreation program
throughout childhood, adolescence and early adult
life seems necessary. The men and women who
go into recreation have usually been attracted tO
that field because Of the satisfaction which they
have always had through their recreational ex-
periences. It is then quite likely that the profes-
sional in recreation will start with a distinctly bet-
ter personality, and that the average Of desirable
personality among recreation workers should be
much higher than the average in other profes-
sions. Many Of the women going into recreation
work are likely tO have a background Of “tom
boy." Experience with mothers and particularly
with teachers proves that having grown up as a
tom boy gives markedly increased chances of su-
perior success in child training or in education.
( SO far I have never found a thorOUghly superior
teacher who was not raised as a tom boy.)
Certainly among recreation workers you would
expect tO find few “bookworms,” few Of the much
talked about “introverts,” and few “poor sports.”
The recreation wOrker who fails to have the
professional point Of view
would be overimpressed
with “things” tO be done.
He would be overwhelmed
with the mechanics Of his
job and by the executive
duties. He would think Of
his work in terms Of keep-
ing people busy, organiz-
ing clubs, increasing attend-
ance. He would think Of
discipline in terms Of help-
ing his program run smooth-
ly rather than Of the help or

RECREATION WORKERS would seem to have an

Dr. Bruce 3. Robinson. Director of Child
Guidance. Newark. New Jersey. Board of
Education. speaking before the Eastern As-
sociation of Recreation Workers. pointed
out that iust as the personality of the teacher
and of the social worker has become. more
important than it had been under old-
fashioned teaching and social work. so. as
the profession“ of recreation develops. we
shall find an increasing emphasis on the per-
sonalities of participants and of recreation
workers. We quote extracts from Dr.
Robinson's address with its stimulating
challenge to the recreation profession.

Personality Development

injury to the personality Of people involved which
might come from his disciplinary measures. The
individual participants would be lost in group ac-
tivities. The recreation Worker would feel no re-
sponsibility for the recognition, study and treat-
ment Of personality needs. TO the worker his
program would be one Of occupying leisure time
rather than a thoroughly important part Of pro-
gressive education which has a major interest in
personality development.

The recreation worker with a professional
point Of view would recognize that he is an edu-
cator; that the primary interest Of his program is
in personality development. His interest in the
personality Of participants would be constant and
active. He would think Of his program in terms
Of its effect on their personality, and he would be
willing to modify it tO give participants experi-
ences which he knows from his professional study
are necessary for increase in maturity, in self-
confidence and self-respect, and in social ability.
He is willing to take the time to work with prob-
lems Of individuals who can profit so largely from
special help in recreation. His treatment Of par-
ticipants shows that he is sensitive to the effect on
personality" Of even his routine contacts with par-
ticipants. Certainly when it
comes to handling discipli-
nary problems Or any other
special problems Of emo-
tion he attempts tO make the
episode into a constructive,
educational experience help-
ful to the personality de~
velopment Of the individual
involved. Because Of his
feeling Of responsibility for
such development there are
many habits Of behavior
which the layman or the

323

324 THE PROFESSIONAL IN RECREATION

unprofessional recreation worker has, which the
professional has abandoned—anger, irritation, im—
patience, sarcasm, “bawling out,” causing a par—
ticipant to “lose face,” and the careless use of
social pressure to force conformity or coopera-
tion, or anything resembling revenge.

What the Recreation Worker Should Know

If the recreation worker is to aid in personality
development he must know the technical infor-
mation now available in regard to the subject. He
must know how the normal child develops and
what sort of experience he must have to aid him
in desirable personality development. He must
know what type of experience leads the child to
the development of undesirable personality traits.
He must be so trained as to note developing dif—
ficulties of personality and must know something
of the procedures necessary to correct such per-
sonality defects.‘ He must be able to recognize
personality difficulties in their early stages so that
correction is fairly easy, rather_
than having to wait until the
situation has developed so far
that the difficulty is obvious and,
at the same time, hard to
modify. '

Personality development oc-
curs at home, at school and
through recreation. The recrea-
tion worker dealing with personality needs to
know the attitude of the school in regard to per-
sonality development and the experiences given
to the child in school as a part of his classroom
experience which are designed to help him in per-
sonality development. The recreation worker
must work closely with the classroom teacher on
this common problem of personality develop-
ment, and therefore he must not only know-what
the classroom teacher believes is desirable, but
what common educational practice is, and what
is being done in a specific room with a particu-
lar child.

The recreation worker must know the problems
of child training in the home. Certainly this mat-
ter of giving aid to the child in personality de-
velopment must be a cooperative affair with the
teacher, the parent and the recreation worker
combining as a team to carry out a desirable pro-
gram. Each member of the team must know what
the other is doing, and what the other could do
to help deve10p a more desirable program for the
normal child as well as for the problem child.

"Certainly the first of the respon-
sibilities which the professional in
recreation faces is the responsi-
bility for his own personality and
for its further development which
in most people is necessary for
adequate professional success."

The matter of child training is so important,
and so few communities give the parents the nec-
essary help either before marriage or after mar-
riage that it seems to me the recreation worker
with an interest in personality development will
accept his responsibility for carrying on parent
education and child training courses in his recre-
ation center. It probably will be necessary to
bring in a specially trained worker to carry on this
parent education, but certainly the professional in
recreation will be thoroughly at home in this field
of child training.

Emphasis should be placed on the personality
complications of their discipline problems. Cer-
tainly the whole subject must be approached from
the standpoint of the effect upon the participant
of the disciplinary measures employed by the rec—
reation worker. The worker must think of the
participant rather than of himself; he must think
of the effect on personalities involved rather than
merely the effect on his program. In the final de-
cision, the rights of the group
exceed those of the individual,
but adults tend to do a great
many indefensible things injur-
ious to personality with the ex-
cuse that they are taking care
of the majority. Analysis of
methods used with such an ex—
cuse usually shows that the
worker was giving plenty of evidence of an im-
mature response to a somewhat difficult situation.

“Tutoring” in Recreation

The progressive in education is going to be suf-
hciently interested in the individual child and in
personality development to be willing to take the
time to work out a proper recreation program for
one child and to do his share in educating him to
enter into such a program and to profit from it.
This may involve conferences with parents and
with teachers. It will, most certainly, take time
away from group activities, but the progressive
worker will not only be willing to give such indi-
vidual service, but will insist that a certain amount

of attention to individual cases is absolutely nec- -

esssary to his satisfaction and his professional
development.

One of the interesting corollaries of this work
with individual children is the matter of “tutor—
ing” in recreation? Many children have been han-
dicapped by lack of previous recreational experi-

(Continued on. page 368)

Virginia’s Better Mousetrap

A new recreation area is opened
to the keen delight of the public
who come for miles to enjoy it

OWN IN, OLD Virginia the National

Park Service has recently completed

a project which proves the correct—

ness of an old maxim beginning “If a
man builds a better mousetrap. . . .”

The mousetrap is known as the Swift
Creek Recreational Area.

In the county where it is located, much
of the land is wooded, covered with
thickets or stunted timber. From this
land, useless for agriculture, a tract has been se-
lected that will grow a crop and it is being planted
for a harvest in public recreation. Federal emer—
gency funds were used to develop 7,600 acres.
There is a swimming lake of I 52 acres; another
lake of thirty acres well stocked with pan fish.
Log cabins have been erected for overnight
campers. A sand beach 400 yards long and I 50
yards wide has been pumped up from the bottom
of Swift Creek, which flows through the area,
and deposited attractively under the shade of giant
trees near the water. The CCC boys and WPA
labor have built miles of gravel roads, nature
cabins, lavatories, laundry huts. The development
represents a several million dollar investment in
the physical equipment for public recreation.

Here is the playground. Sixteen miles away is
Richmond, with a population of 185,000 people.
Petersburg, Hopewell and Chesterfield County
make up enough to bring the total drawing popu—
lation up to 300,000. The people are there; the
main problems now are those of administration
and drawing the crowds to a rural playground to
which, at present, there are no means of trans-
portation other than the automobile.

A Recreational Council Is Organized

Wisely the National Park Service has decided
on a new method of making this area known to

d

M”

SWIFT CREEK

' W

DEMONSTRATION AREA
I‘m

3 NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

“° us. DEPARTM ENT  ' INTERlOR
 coopenmmo wt’m

VIRGINIA COMMISSlON 0N

 CONSERVATION "a DEVELOPMENT

*- ENTRANCE ~i

W%¢ ’ W449“? 'i“

.24

as I I. g

-- - 3mm

 CCCCAMP SP.
" ‘ i 9 . ' ...
' _ ' r “ 3w; W=.:.,j;:;. W" {53.33 .

 

By LEE G. CRUTCHFIELD, JR.
Community Recreation Association

Richmond, Virginia

the public. Instead of handling the promotion
themselves, the Government officials have or—
ganized a committee of seventeen citizens from
the cities of Richmond, Hopewell and Petersburg,
and from the county of Chesterfield, to take
charge of the public use program of the area for
the first year of its operation. At the end of this
time, the plan is that the State of Virginia shall
assume control of the area and add it to its chain
of State parks, of which there are six. For the
present, title to the property remains with the
Federal Government.

The Council is to be divorced from any con-
nection with the State and National Governments,
except for supervision, and is to present to the
public, for acceptance or rejection, this newest
of Virginia’s playgrounds.

Composition of the Recreational Council
charged with this important mission is varied. Its
president is a member of a County Welfare
Board; its vice-president, personnel director of a
huge rayon plant; its treasurer, comptroller of a
bank, and its secretary, director of the Commu-

325

326 VIRGINIA’S BETTER MOUSETRAP

nity Recreation Association, a group-work agency
of the Richmond Community Fund. Scattered
through the remainder of the Council are a news-
paper editor, a furniture store salesman, a foun-
dryman, a department store executive, a Boy
Scout leader, an insurance salesman, a county
agent and a Community Fund executive. Truly it
is a representative council of citizens.

Such was the group which took over the re—
sponsibility, late in June of 1938, for explaining
the use of the Swift Creek Recreational Area to
the public. Another task was to persuade the peo-
ple to visit the place in order to see what was there.

“Industrial groups, Sunday Schools, civic and
fraternal organizations, churches, and employees’
associations” were the bodies, according to the
Council prospectus, which were to be invited.
Generally, all those who could not afford to go
away for summer relief were to be encouraged to
use this free backyard playground with its beach,
diving towers, and fishing lake.

Assuming its role with great enthusiasm, the
Council swung into action. Stories went to the
papers of the three cities, which were very co-
operative in securing pictures. A radio program
which included representatives of the Council, the
National Park Service and the Virginia Conser-
vation Commission was presented.

The Independence Day week-end drew on
apace, and the result of the opening of this new
venture was awaited.

The People Came !

The people came. They had found something
in the recreational field, evidently, which they had
been seeking for a long time—a free—admission,
public playground in Virginia, with bathhouse and
concessions charging minimum rates, with trained
leaders in the various games and crafts. For these
were here—two lifeguards and seven counselors
in dramatics, dancing, handcraft, singing, nature
study. These staff members were supplied by the
\Vorks Progress Administration.

The people liked it. They came in droves. Five
thousand the first day; 7,000, the second; 6,000
the third. From Chesterfield Court House to the
camp entrance is four miles. On July 4th this
stretch was pa’cked with automobiles. At three
o’clock, as no more parking space was available
within the park, the gates were closed. Fifteen
hundred laden automobiles were turned back.

In the nine days from July 2nd through July
I'ith there were over 26.000 visitors. Figures of

the State Park Commission indicate that the an-
nual attendance at a State park throughout Vir-
ginia is between 35,000 and 40,000.

The people wanted a playground.

Facilities Provided

Experts have said that the location of the Swift
Creek Recreational Area is the best in the State.
A variety of activities are available. In a grove of
trees near the fishing lake is the nature study
cabin with a full time counselor on duty, where
interested persons may have supervised study of
the flora and fauna. Down the hill, the lake is
stocked with perch, bream and crappie. Ten
boats are for hire and State fishing laws govern
the taking of fish.

The swimming lake, two and one half miles
long, was formed by damming the creek that flows
through the area. Two steel and wood diving
towers with springboards are situated in the deep
water. An enclosed beach for waders or begin-
ning swimmers is marked by floats. Lifeguards
are in attendance from the time the park opens
at 10:00 A. M. until it closes at 8 :00 P. M. A num-
ber of picnic tables and stone fireplaces are ad-
jacent to the beach. These may be reserved for
picnic parties.

Game equipment, furnished free by the Rec—
reational Council, includes large rubber beach
balls, softball and softball bats, a badminton set
and horseshoe pitching courts.

Dancing is taught by a staff member on a large
wooden stage provided with a piano, and this
stage is also used for dramatics. Handicraft and
pottery making under direction of trained coun-
selors are offered.

The refectory operated by the Council is out-
standing. Perhaps the most frequent comment
concerning the whole public playground has been
that of the reasonable prices that prevail. Bath-
house facilities are very inexpensive, being only
fifteen cents for adults. Other prices follow the
same trend, with drinks and other refreshments
at a minimum cost. '

Equally as attractive are the group camping
grounds. Two completely equipped mess halls,
with refrigerators, cooking ranges and pantries
are available for lease by large groups. In addi-
tion, overnight or week-end cabins are rented to
smaller groups, with a minimum of fifteen camp—
ers, for twenty—five cents per head per night.

(Continued on page 369)

Prepare for Retirement

By J. Y. SHAMBACI—I

'r IS generally
agreed that one

of the best ways
to prepare for a
happy retirement
is to engage in a
well-balanced pro—
gram of active,
vigorous work and
recreation. This
may be done by
including in a
schedule of regu-
lar activities the
development of an
avocation. An avo-
cation is just as
important as a V0-
cation. An activity
that is different
gives the busy per-
son an opportunity to occupy his leisure time ad-
vantageously and at the same time relieves the ten-
sion which prevails when he is working continu-
ally and vigorously upon his regular duties. For-
tunately there is a wide variety of avocations
which some people prefer to call hobbies.

 nununammn

A Wide Variety of Avocations

Walking and Geography. An editor of one of
the largest, city newspapers is engaged in a very
pleasant avocation. At one time he was a success-
ful educator. He carries a pedometer in his vest
pocket. At the age of seventy-four years he pre-
tends that he is walking around the world. He
makes it a habit to walk at least ten miles each
day. At the close of the .day he plots on a map
the distance he has walked and pretends he is
spending the night at the place indicated at the
end of the diagram for the day. He uses his
Baedeker’s Guide to study the areas parallel to
the highway along which he pretends he has
walked that day. This pro-
cedure furnishes physical as
well as mental stimulation.

Any person who walks
should remember that al-
though it is one of the best
forms of exercise it is even

 
   

.. IA,

' f; K433313333! fJ

 

This article by Mr. Shambachl Deputy
Secretary. Pennsylvania Public School
Employees' Retirement Fund, HarrisburgI
appeared in the May I938 issue of the
Pennsylvania School Journal and is
reprinted by courtesy of the Journal.

more invigorating
when there is an
objective. One
man invented er-
rands in the coun-
try surrOUnding
the borough in
which he lived. He
walked out to va-
rious farms and
conversed with the
owners or helped
them with some
w o r k s u c h a s
husking corn. At
other times he
walked to farms
with the idea of
sharpening cutting
tools used about
the kitchen, in the

work shop, or elsewhere on the premises. He also
walked to buildings that were being erected or
highways that were being improved.

A former county superintendent of schools
made it a practice to start early in the morning
so that he might walk to the schools he planned to
visit that day. He spent parts of his vacations
walking in his own state and in other states. Since
retirement he continues to enjoy this form of ex-
ercise. At present he is planning a walking expe-
dition through the Great Smoky Mountains. He
hopes to realize a dream of walking through
England and Scotland before he comes to his
journey’s end.

Some ladies walk and exercise enough while
performing the regular duties about their homes
and flower gardens. Others prefer to go to a
gymnasium to engage in varied exercises.

Fishing, StudyI and Speaking. One retired edu-
cational leader who has lost the use of his eyes
can still tell the person who rows the boat just
where to go so that he may
demonstrate to others in the
party what constitutes either
real or reel fishing. He has
prepared and given talks on
life out-of-doors where he
spent a great deal of his lei-

327

 

Illustration by C. V. Kirby

328 PREPARE FOR RETIREMENT

sure time when he was teaching and serving as a
school administrator. One day at his State Edu-
cation Association convention he gave a remark-
ably helpful address on “The Blessings of

Blindness.”

Geology. One retired school man is interested
in geology. When he was a superintendent of
schools in one of our cities his son, at that time
eight years of age, reported gleefully to a play-
mate that he and his father en jOyed a short vaca-
tion hunting “chalybites.” The superintendent
spent much of his leisure time as an amateur
geologist. At present his son is an active teacher.
He is still enthusiastic about the field trips he
enjoys with his father during vacation periods.
They find many interesting as well as puzzling
formations.

There are unsolved problems to challenge the
imagination of the amateur geologist as well as
the skilled thinking of the professional geologist.
At the time of the writing of this article there is
a rock formation in York County, Pennsylvania,
which no geologist has been able-to explain. Fur-
thermore, geologists are trying to discover where
the oceans were when the canyons were formed
by erosion that are now from four thousand to
ten thousand feet beneath the surface of the ocean.

Naturally the solution of such problems should
be the work of a professional geologist. How—
ever, knowledge of the facts and other unusual
phenomena in geology and other sciences can ex-
tend easily a person’s mental horizon and his
interest in his surroundings.

Writing. For many years one retired teacher
wanted to write poetry as well as prose. He is
findng time now to create literary productions of
a high grade. Even though his writings may never
become as well known as those of standard au-
thors who is there that can predict accurately that
some day he may not complete something that will
become as well known as “ ’Twas the Night Be-
fore Christmas,” “Alice in Wonderland,” or other
selections that were written as avocations?

A retired school administrator is engaged in
writing a biography ’of one of his favorite edu-
cators, a widely known Superintendent of Public
Instruction with whom he worked for some years.

Making Violins. An educational supervisor who
is looking forward some time to retirement makes
violins as a hobby. When he disposes of his prod-
uct he charges for material only. His friends
know the value of his violins. They know that he

secures the best material he can find and that he
takes plenty of time during his leisure hours to
put his best efforts into the work. For two rea-
sons he charges for material only. One reaSOn is
his. idea that if he should accept pay for his time
he could not think of this avocation as a hobby,
consequently it would lose much of its appeal.

Welfare and Secretarial Work. One retired
school employe scheduled his time in such a way
that he was able to do a great deal of welfare
work in his community in addition to his work as
secretary of the fraternal organization of which
he was a member. A number of retired teachers
are engaged in welfare work of different kinds
for which they receive no remuneration.

Mental Contestsl TravelI and Real Estate. One
retired superintendent enjoyed his participation in
a contest conducted by a metropolitan newspaper.
The contest was based on a knowledge of history
and written composition. He won the first prize
of ten thousand dollars. Part of the money he
spent traveling. In this way he saw places which
for many years he had wanted to visit.

A number of retired teachers engage in mental
contests of various kinds even though they have
no assurance that they will win. Some of them
work on contests when they do not intend to for-
ward their completed productions to those who
conduct the contests.

Many retired teachers travel. They find that it
costs very little more and sometimes less to live in
a warmer climate during the winter months. The
cost depends, of course, upon various factors such
as distance, management, and the places visited.

A retired man and his wife live in a trailer in
the south during the winter months. He uses the
summer months to add new features to two de-
lightful summer cottages and their surroundings
in a beautiful setting in his native state.

Occupations After Retirement

Teachers sometimes retire and engage in other
occupations not connected with the public schools
in the state in which they were employed. A man
retired in his native state and became a university
professor in another state. An educator retired
and served for a time as a coordinator in a busi-
ness college. Later he acquired a teachers’ agency
which he is conductng at the present time.

One man retired and served as a superintend-
ent of schools in a city in another state. Athletic
contests constitute one of his hobbies. He attended

PREPARE FOR RETIREMENT 329

the college activities connected with his daughter’s
graduation exercises. One of the Commencement
events was a track meet. He saw the judges
award a close race to a person he thought was not
entitled to win. Because of his desire for fair
play he protested. Later the motion pictures of
the race showed that he was right. He learned
that the real winner was a junior preparing to
teach. At the close of the senior year of the win-
ner he received a contract to teach in the schools
of the superintendent who met him on the day of

the track meet.
The cinder track winner became a real winner

of the attention of students which resulted in their
desired development. He was also able to do post-
graduate work at a nearby university where he
had hoped to be able to study some day. Thus a
man, while following a hobby, met a prospective
successful teacher and helped a school system as
well as an individual.

A retired teacher is a suc-
cessful insurance salesman.
Another plans to serve as a li-
brarian. It should be noted, of
course, that it is unusual for a
retired teacher to secure a re—
munerative position. However
there are exceptional persons
who are as energetic at sev-
enty or beyond as others at
forty or fifty. If they can con-
tribute to the world’s work
who would deny them the privilege of engaging
in such work? They illustrate the adage regarding
a will and a way.

Two of the efficient members of the Public
School Employes’ Retirement Board are retired
teachers and educators.

Jig-sawing and Gardening. Several retired per-
sons have secured jig-saws and have spent many
happy hours making various articles for their
homes. One man operates his jig-saw and other
wood working machinery with a motor he re-
moved from a replaced electric washing machine.

One man is not only interested in jig-saw ac-
tivities but also in propagating and cultivating
common and unusual garden and house plants. He
shares with his friends the products of his labors.

Two lady teachers who are twins retired after
forty years of achievement. They plan to devote
their time to their flower gardens. Since they in-
cluded in their accomplishments the solution of
Pacal’s Mystic Hexagram, it is fair to assume that

"Having a hobby is like taking out an
annuity. You pay now: it pays you
later. As a substitute for workI as a
relaxer.‘as a balance wheel. every
individual should have at least one
hobby. Whether the hobby be making
something. learning something or ac-
quiring something' it matters not."—
Agnes R. Wayman in A M odem
Philosophy of Physical Education.

they will continue their mental activity as well as
their physical exercise.

Cabinet Making. One man prepared for retire—
ment by spending his leisure time as a cabinet and
furniture maker. He made various articles of
furniture including cedar chests, chairs, tables,
and a writing desk. Before attempting elaborate
pieces he developed real skill as a cabinet maker.

Value of Hobbies

A properly subordinated avocation not only pre-
pares a person for retirement but also [its him to
serve more efficiently in his present position. It is
assumed that every person who adopts a hobby
such as golf will retain proper perspective and,
unless he becomes a professional golfer, will have
sufficient mental acumen to prevent the hobby
from becoming a task—master, taking more than
the proper amount of time. If a person adopts a
hobby and loses his perspective, it increases ten-
sion rather than serving as a
helpful side line.

Physicians who seem to
know most about the workings
of the nervous system agree
that, much as medicine and
treatment may be needed at
times, a hobby or two well di-
rected will do much more than
either medicine or treatment in
giving tone, poise, and a feel-
ing of well-being to a person
with a nervous temperament or a capacity for de-
veloping such a temperament. Under some condi-
tions nearly every person has a capacity for de-
veloping a nervous temperament. Hence, it may
be logical to conclude that a hobby or an avoca-
tion properly planned is beneficial for every per—
son. One physician who had a large practice in-
cluding many teachers said he had concluded that
teaching must be one of the most nerve-racking
occupations a person can find. He deliberately
prescribed hobbies for a number of his school
teacher patients as well as for others. He had the
ability to prepare a cleverly phrased hobby sug-
gestion which he handed to a patient on a pre-
scription form either with medicine or with an-
other prescription for medicine to be obtained at

the drug store.
Selecting a Hobby

It has been said that a person should select an
avocation or a hobby very much as he selects a

(Continued on page 370)

A Suggestion for a Musical Evening

there is a fair amount of

talent—several good vo-
calists, one or two instrumen-
talists and a capable accom-
panist—you may present what
may be called “an opera re-
view,” “a light opera review,”
or “a musical comedy review,”
depending upon the type of
music you are to perform.
Then, selecting someone with
directorial ability and a flair
for program balance, you plan
your performance with as
much or as little staging and
costuming as you desire. If you have a stage and
curtain available. so much the better; but they are
not essential. You proceed to concoct a number of
acts, some of them scenes from opera or musical
comedy, some simply individual numbers, sung or
played as concert pieces, and you have a kind of
vaudeville show, with the acrobats and trained
seals left out!

The guests are presented with programs. but
their surprise and possible chagrin these programs
tell nothing, for they are made up of numbers
followed by blank spaces. The guests are then in-
formed that'they are to fill in the blanks with the
names of the numbers they are about to hear,'_and
that the contestant who identifies the most num-
bers will win the roses, the Stradivarius violin or
the papicr-maclte tuba. Both you and the guests
will be surprised to learn how many heart-break-
ingly familiar pieces they do not know!

As a sample, the following is suggested as a
program for lovers of grand opera:

A SSUMING that in your group

A Grand Opera Review

The Quartet from Rigoletto. It is always Wise
to start out with an easy one; it gives the musi-
cally uneducated a “break,” and the more sophis-
ticated a great deal of false confidence. This
scene should be clone “full stage,” and acted
out just as it would be in a regular production.
It would possible, too, to precede the Quartet
with La Donna a Mobile; in that case, of
course, spaces for both numbers must be pro-

330

By NEIL BOARDMAN
St. Paul, Minnesota

More and moreI in church. school and
home, evenings are being devoted, in
one way or another, to music; and
those in charge of programs are
sometimes hard put to it to provide
a novel and at the same time enter-
taining bill for their increasingly
exacting guests. Here is a sugges-
tion for a musicale that will prove
of special interest to those who con-
sider themselves musically well post-
ed, and at the same time will be en-
tirely enioyable to the uninitiated.

vided in the blank programs,

Meditation from Thais. Pro-
vided, of course, that you have
a capable violinist. There are
many purely instrumental se-
lections available—a piano or
organ transcription of some
overture, not William Tell,
would do nicely.

Ballet Music from Faust. One

or two parts may be used.

Further contrast is here provided by putting on a

full-stage dancing act. It is not necessary to per-

form the ballet itself! Any graceful dancing,

however simple. is acceptable, provided the music
is authentic.

Elsa's Dream from Lohengrin. (Done simply as
a concert piece.) '

The Bartered Bride. (One of the several com—
edy scenes may be used.)

And so on, until at least an hour’s time is taken.
Still greater opportunity for variety may be found
in the field of light opera. It is quite possible, of
course, to mix the two—and what could be more
delightful than a grandiose scene from Wagner
followed by the capers of Ko-Ko and Katisha!

If the party is private, c0pyrighted material
may be used; if public, arrangements must of
necessity be made with those who control the
rights of performance.

The important thing is to suit the program to
your audience. For a gathering of music teach-
ers, the lesser known portions of even the popular
operas and operettas are mystifying enough; for
those who take their music more leisurely, more
familiar numbers can be used. And above all in-
sist that the performers take what they are doing
seriously, and perform to the best of their abili-
ties; for the programs are most successful when
they are only one half game and the other half
genuine musical entertainment.

"The Biggest Show on Earth"

"This type of proiect.ll in
the words of Alice Dietz.

Director of Playgrounds ot
the Recreation Department.
Board of Park Commission-
ersl Minneapolis. llhas many

advantages. It provides a
worthwhile activity on the

playgrounds when opportuni-
ties for outdoor recreation
are limited. It fosters a
spirit of giving in children
who participate, and it cen-
ters the attention of the
community on the work that
the playgrounds are doing.''

VER SINCE P. T. BARNUM gathered together
E all the movable wonders of the world and
set about plastering the towns and hamlets
of America with the most colorful and exciting
advertising the country had ever seen, the circus
has had a‘greater hold on the American popular
imagination than any other type of entertainment.
And so it was not strange that when the children
at Minneapolis playgrounds were asked as to
What they would like to build for their Christmas
craft project last year, the response was almost
unanimbus for miniature circuses.

The project was begun on November I and
continued up until the week before Christmas.
This is the time of the year in Minneapolis when
opportunities for outdoor recreation on the play-
grounds are most limited. Nineteen playgrounds
were furnished with materials for circus construc-
tion and each playground was given full leeway in
working out its own ideas of construction. The
only restrictions were that the circuses should be
easily transportable and be so constructed that
they could be set up and taken down in just the
same way as a real circus.

Imagination Ran Riot !

This “laissez faire” policy produced some inter-
esting results. One playground built a “Big Top”
complete down to a hot dog stand which used

 

Fifth Grade children at the Michael Dowling
School for Crippled Children glean some ideas
on how circuses are constructed by examining
their gift from children of the playgrounds.

clippings from red rubber bands to simulate its
wares. Another ground built a calliope from an
old coffee can in which was placed a small music
box. A number of the circuses had Ferris wheels
and merry-go—rounds powered by miniature
motors and geared to the apparatus. One park
used an old phonograph turn table for its merry-
go-round.

A typical circus was the one constructed by the
children of Bryant Square, one of the smaller
playgrounds. This circus was composed of the
following articles: a base, four feet square and
hinged in the center, which served as the circus
grounds, one performing ring made from a
wooden barrel hoop, three circus wagons with
cages containing wild animals cut from wood with
scroll saws, six cages of wild animals. a Ferris
wheel, a merry-go-round, a canvas tent with
stakes and poles made from meat skewers, four
clowns made with scroll saws, a troupe of per-
forming horses, a hot dog stand, and a ticket

booth.
All of these articles were separate from the base

and had to be assembled according to the plan of

331

332

the circus. The material
used in construction con—
sisted of discarded boxes.
burlap, pieces of canvas,
meat skewers. wire, glue.
nails, and paper. The tools
used were a plain saw, a
scroll saw, a hammer, a
planer, and a ruler.

At the conclusion of the
project, the circuses were
placed on display for two
days in the Mayor's recep—
tion room at the City Hall.
After that they were dis—

“THE BIGGEST SHOW ON EARTH”

EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS RECEIVED
By Mrs. Alice Dietz

"We're going to have great fun playing
with that splendid circus this winter. It is one
of the best surprises we ever had. We think
it was very kind of you to send it to our
school. Thank you for being so good to us."

 

"We thank you very much for selecting
our school to send a circus to. I like the
terris wheel very much. The boys in our
school are trying to make a circus. We
hope it will be as nice as yours." "‘

 

"We want to thank you very much for
the circus. I thought that the little girl on
the fareswell was cute."

in a recreation program, and
plans are already on foot
for the 1938 project. The
directors of the Children’s
Divisions of the Homes and
Hospitals have been can-
vassed in an effort to learn
what craft articles would
make desirable additions to
their play equipment. It was
decided that puppet theater
units complete with pUppet
stage and a sufficient num-
ber of puppets to stage three
plays would provide the

tributed to orphan homes

and'hospitals as Christmas

gifts from Minneapolis playground children. The
circus made at the George A. Brackett Field was
sent to the Georgia \Varm Springs Foundation,
at the request of the children. A warm letter of
appreciation was received from Mr. Keith Mor—
gan, vice—president of the Foundation, thanking
the Brackett children for their gift.

Another of the circuses was sent to the Michael
Dowling School for Crippled Children in Min—
neapolis. According to Miss Gladys McAllister,
the school’s principal, the children were very en—
thusiastic about their new
circus—so much so in fact
that the Fifth
Grade boys are
making a simi—
lar circus to
p r e s e n t t o a
hospital for
crippled chil—
dren.

Mrs. Alice
Dietz, Minne—
apolis play-

ground direct—

or, and Walter
T. Halloran,
superintend en t
of the WPA
park recreation
project in Min—
neapolis, are
convinced of
the value of a
Christmas han-
dicraft project

Children at the Glen Lake Sanatorium erecting
their miniature circus with adult assistance

 

children with a worthwhile

play activity which would
be an incentive to -the study of plays and the
theater.

There are many ways in which recreation and
park departments can be of service to institu-
tions. Too often institutions do not enter into
the activities of the recreation department or
take advantage of its many free services. It has
been” suggested that personal invitations from a
recreation department to the institutions of its
city would be greatly appreciated. Specialists
from recreation depart—
ments have much to offer.
A storyteller
or handcraft
worker travel-
in g from one
playground or
park to anoth-
er might well
include Chil—
dren’s Homes in
her itinerary.
Institutions are
glad to receive
apparatus, scen-
ery, game sup—
plies, books and
similar material
discarded by
recreation de-
partments if
the articles are
usable or re-
pairable.

Public Recreation in Cleveland

The story of two years of progress in making the
recreation program of a large city more effective

has maintained a Divi-

sion of Recreation for
many years. The adminis-
tration of Mayor Harold H.
Burton, which took office
in November 1935, has been
the first, however, to make
substantial and consistent
progress in the development
of an adequate public recre-
ation system. In spite of
severe financial handicaps,
the new administration ac-
cepted the responsibility for
developing a system of pub—
lic recreation facilities for
its peeple, and in the past
two years has made much
progress.

THE CITY of Cleveland

Attacking the Problem of Personnel
No single factor has more to do with the suc-
cessful operation of a unit of the municipal gov—
ernment than the personnel connected with it.
When the Burton administration took office the
Division of Recreation was unquestionably one of
the most understaffed operating units within the
municipal government: There was a Commis-
sioner of Recreation at the head of the Division;
the other administrative official was the Superin-
tendent of Bath Houses. Two clerical helpers
completed the year-round working force. In ad-
dition, seasonal employes were retained for play-
grounds and outdoor facilities during the summer,
and in the bathhouses and recreation centers dur-
ing the winter. Fourteen playground supervisors,
eighty-five playground directors, seven handcraft
instructors and seven tennis instructors were em-
ployed during the summer of 1935. Bathhouse
personnel included eight superintendents, nine
physical instructors, seventy attendants and four
licensed hremen. .
The new administration recognized immediater
that to effect a reasonably adequate public recrea-

By H. E. VARGA

Director

Department of Parks and Public Property

During the past few years Cleveland has
made considerable progress in the devel-
opment of a more adequate public recrea-
tion program. In this article Mr. Varga.
who is Director of Parks and Public Prop-
erty. with the cooperation of Edward A.
Levy. Secretary of the Mayor's Advisory
Board on Playgrounds and Recreation. tells
of the maior developments undertaken to
date. For further information regarding J'rhe
Cleveland program we refer our readers to
the article. "Model Playgrounds for Cleve-
land." by Edward A. Levy and Leyton E.
Carter of the Cleveland Foundation. which
appeared i'n Recreation. February I938.

tion system additional and
more effective personnel
would be required. This
fact was further emphasized
in a report of the local pub-
lic recreation situation which
was being made at the time
by the Cleveland Founda-
tion. The immediate per—
sonnel problem facing the
new administration was,
then, the method of obtain-
ing more and better quali—
fied recreation workers in a
short time and under pre-
vailing financial limitations.

Early in February, 1936.
the first step was taken in
the appointment, by the
Mayor, of an Advisory Board on Playgrounds
and Recreation. As originally constituted by the
Mayor, the Board consisted of nineteen members
—representatives of social and civic and religious
organizations. Leyton E. Carter, Director of the
Cleveland Foundation, was named chairman of
the group. Early in 1938 the Board was recon-
stituted and membership increased to twenty-
seven, with industry and labor interests given rep-
resentation. The Board serves, in general, to
advise the administration on matters of policy af-
fecting the local public recreation situation. From
the very beginning it has been motivated by a
two-fold purpose. First, it has sought consistently
to recommend to the administration means for
improving the existing municipal recreation set—
up, and second, it is endeavoring to formulate a
long—time program for the future development of
public recreation in Cleveland.

Soon after the creation of the Mayor's Board
the administration undertook to improve and in-

. crease the administrative personnel within the

Division. I. Noble Richards. then Director of the
Cuyahoga County Recreation Commission, was
given a temporary appointment as Commissioner
of Recreation. At the same time Julius Kemeny,

333

334 PUBLIC RECREATION IN CLEVELAND

Superintendent of Bathhouses, was promoted to
the Assistant Commissionership and granted full
Civil Service status in that position. Early in
1936, also, careful check was made of all per-
sonnel connected with the city’s bathhouses and
community centers, and several improvements
were made. A policy of semi—annual physical ex-
aminations for all employes was initiated.

It was clearly recognized that the financial limi-
tations of the city introduced the most severe
handicap to the program for a more adequate
staff. However, in June, 1936, funds were made
available for the employment of a Supervisor of
Women’s and Girls’ Activities and for a Superin-
tendent of Maintenance. During 1936 the regular
summer playground staff was increased, and ad-
ditional physical instructors were employed in the
recreation centers. The quality of playground per-
sonnel was substantially raised by classification
with Civil Service status of all playground posi-
tions within the municipal service. Examinations
for the various positions attracted a large registra-
tion. Upon the request of the Mayor’s Board, the
Commission departed from regular procedure and
allowed authorities of the various out-of-town
schools and colleges to conduct examinations for
applicants unable to return to Cleveland.

Considerable staff assistance on playgrounds
and in the centers was obtained during 1936 from
WPA and NYA. The WPA provided supervisors
of special activities such as handcraft, music and
dancing. NYA playground leaders, trained at a
special institute conducted by NYA, worked
along with city leaders on the playgrounds. Sev—
eral tennis instructors were supplied by NYA.

As a means of making positions within the
recreational service more attractive by virtue of
permanency, Civil Service examinations for sev—
eral positions were conducted in 1937. Playground
examinations for the 1937 season were held dur-
ing the 1936 Christmas holidays so that a large
registration could be had. The Commission also
conducted an examination for the position of
Commissioner of Recreation. Residents require—
ments were broadened to include anyone living in
the United States.  Noble Richards, acting Com—
missioner of Recreation, received the permanent
appointment. The position of Supervisor of
\‘Vomen’s and girls’ Activities was also filled by
Civil Service examination. All positions in the
city’s bathhouses and recreation centers, with the
exception of attendants, were placed within the
classified service during the year.

Some additions were made to the staff of the
Recreation Division during 1937. A few addi-
tional playground directors and leaders were em-
ployed when several new playgrounds were
opened. Services of WPA special supervisors
were retained both on playgrounds and in the
centers.

The year 1938 will, it is hoped, see a continued
expansion of the Division’s staff. Progress has
already been made in this direction with the recent
employment of a Supervisor of Men’s and Boys’
Activities. The present budget of the Division, if
approved by Council, calls for a number of addi-
tions to the staff including 125 playground leaders
and directors_a 50% increase over the 1935 total.
At least four full time laborers and six part-time
workers are specified. In addition, other person—
nel will be added to provide for administration of
certain municipal functions recently been made
the responsibility of the Division of Recreation,
and for operation of the new recreation ware-

.house. All life guard personnel and municipal

golf links employees will in the future be a part
of the Division of Recreation staff.

Obviously there is still much to be done. Addi—
tional personnel is needed, but a good start has
been made. In numbers alone the present staff
represents a material increase over the 1935 fig-
ures, and several capable employees have been
secured.

Improvements and Additions to the
' Physical Plant.

For many years preceding the Burton adminis-
tration no improvements had been made to the
physical plant and little new equipment had been
procured. Further, many of the normal functions
of the Recreation Division had been assumed by
other units of the city government.

Playgrounds. The administration set out to im-
prove the situation as best it could. It was rec-
ognized first of all that much of the physical plan
was in need of complete overhauling. As city
funds for improvements were woefully inade-
quate, it was fortunate that Federal funds could
be made available from WPA and. NYA. During
the past two years NYA has aided the city in re-
conditioning a number of municipal play areas
and in rehabilitating playground equipment. In
1937 alone $16,000 of the- city money was spent as
sponsor’s contribution to the various NYA proj—
ects. \VPA is working full time preparing equip-

PUBLIC RECREATION IN CLEVELAND 335

ment for use during 1938 and has ,also completed
certain rehabilitation work in the recreation cen-
ters. Much of the reconditioning work in the bath
houses and at recreation centers, however, has
been financed by the city.

Sizable expenditures have been made by the
city during the past two years for the improve-
ment of municipal playgrounds, tennis courts and
baseball diamonds. It is recognized that these fa—
cilities are not yet in perfect condition, but a start
in this direction has been made and it is hoped
will be continued during 1938.

The present administration fully aware of the
inadequate physical plant operated by the Recre-
ation Division, has made a special effort to in-
crease the physical facilities for play. Progress
along this line has been slow principally because of
the scarcity of available public land and of city
funds to purchase the necessary property. Rather
than deprive the people of much needed play
space, the administration in 1936 embarked upon
a program of “leasing” private property from
public-spirited citizens for playground and other
recreational purposes. Many such areas have been
improved and equipped. In 1935, the city operated
thirty-eight playgrounds. The administration in-
creased the number during 1936 to fifty-five by
obtaining leases to seventeen playgrounds. In
1937, eleven additional private properties were
operated as playgrounds. It is expected that the
number of playgrounds
in 1938 will reach sev—
enty-five—a 100% in-
crease over the 1935/
figure. An outstanding
addition to the city’s
playground system dur-
ing 1937 was the de-
velopment by the Cleve-
land Foundation of
three so-called model
playgrounds. Two of
these areas are perma-
nent developments and
have been illuminated
for night play. They are
Cleveland’s first bright-
ly lighted, year-round
playgrounds.

Baseball. Only fifty-
nine baseball diamonds
were operated by the
city during 1935, obvi-

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Department, LosAngclcs

oust an inadequate number. Early in 1936 a
WPA project was initiated in Woodland Hills
Park, and several diamonds were torn up. Dur-
ing the past few years a few large parcels have
been leased from private owners to be used for
baseball, but at least until WPA park rehabilita-
tion programs have been completed it is expected
that municipal facilities for baseball will remain
inadequate.

A significant development in 1937 was the in-
auguration of night softball. Three softball dia-
monds were illuminated for night use with funds
provided by the Cleveland Baseball Federation,
the Cleveland Foundation, thé' Municipal Softball
Association and a public-spirited citizen, with the
city’s Utilities Department furnishing technical
assistance. These diamonds were in constant use
last summer. It is expected that a lighted field for
night regulation baseball games will be completed
at Brookside Park for the 1938 season.

Tennis. Tennis enthusiasts have for many years
been without adequate facilities for play. The
administration, however, has recently made a
special effort to provide additional areas, and
prominent in plans for WPA rehabilitation of city
parks are many new tennis COUrts.

Other Facilities. During 1937 and the first part
of 1938, comfort stations were built on six city-
owned playgrounds and more are in' process of
construction. Plans have been prepared for the
erection of stations on
all city owned play-
grounds. Recently
ground was broken by
the VVPA for the con- '
struction of a ware—
house for the Recrea-
tion Division. The Di-
vision of Landscape
Architecture of the
Park Department has
prepared detailed plans
for the complete reha-
bilitation and modern-
ization of the seventeen
city-owned play-
grounds. These plans,
to be carried out by
\VPA, call for the sur-
facing and landscaping
of the playground areas,
for the construction of
game courts, and the

336 PUBLIC RECREATION 1N CLEVELAND

 

Photo by Charles H. Cunningham, New York

deveIOpment of other playground facilities. Proj-
ects are now in operation at seven playgrounds.

Equipment and Supplies. When the new admin-
istration took office the Division of Recreation
was in possession of a scant amount of equipment,
supplies and materials, and little money was avail-
able to replace worn out supplies. Slow progress
has been made with the help of N YA and WPA
in restoring playground equipment. NYA was
persuaded to put in operation, late in 1936, a
project for the manufacture of concrete benches
and drinking fountains, paving blocks, wall blocks
and curbings. Early in 1937 a recreation store-
room and warehouse was established in the base-
ment of City Hall, and the storeroom clerk was
put in charge of the making of recreational sup-
plies. In the past year the clerk, with \NPA as-
sistance, has turned out much game equipment in-
cluding checker and chess boards. ping-pong
tables and paddles; much old and delapidated
equipment, such as baseballs, horseshoes and bats,
has been put in usable condition.

Increasing Responsibility

While the administration has consistently
sought to improve existing recreation facilities
and to extend the system, it has not lost sight of
the fact that certain recreation facilities and ac-
tivities should be placed within the Division of
Recreation. Consequently, consideration has been
given to relocating responsibility for the operation

In'the revamping of Cleveland's recreation
programl much attention has been devoted
to the extension of handcratt activities

and maintenance of the city’s recreational
facilities. Previous to 1936 maintenance
of all recreational areas was in the hands
of the Commissioner of Parks. On Janu-
ary 1, 1937, responsibility for the main—
tenance of all playgrounds, whether in the -
parks or outside, and also for the up-
keep of all municipal recreational facilities
outside the parks, was placed in the Rec—
reation Division.

Recently additional duties were trans-
ferred to the Division of Recreation when
responsibility for the city’s life guard per—
sonnel and for the operation of the 36-
hole municipal golf course was handed
over to the Commissioner of Recreation.
The shifting of responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of municipal recreational facilities is
in itself a large and complicated task made more
difficult by limited financial resources.

A comparison of the condition of the Recrea-
tion Division’s physical plant.in 1935 with the
present situation offers definite proof of progress.
Improvements to facilities have been extensive.
The physical plant has been enlarged by the addi—
tion of several playgrounds, baseball diamonds,
tennis courts and other important improvements.
Furthermore, distinct progress has been made in
reallocating responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of municipal recreation facilities to
the Division of Recreation.

Revising the Program

One of the most important items of a recreation
system—public or private—is unquestionably the
program which it offers. It is the program which,
more than any other factor, encourages the indi—
xidual to participate in the various activities. It
therefore follows logically that the more interest-
ing and varied the program, the greater the popu-
larity of the facility upon which the program is
conducted.

For some time previous to 1935 the recreation
program had been lopsided and haphazard. Ap-
proximately eighty per cent of the community
center program was devoted to active sports such
as basketball and volley ball, with baseball the

PUBLIC RECREATION IN CLEVELAND ' 337

dominant activity in the summer playground pro—
gram. Lack of capable personnel to supervise
programs at the various recreation centers and
playgrounds was, it is believed, the primary cause
for this sitUation.

Considerable prOgress has been made during
the last two years in the development of more
adequate activity programs. Emphasis has been
placed upon a well-balanced program suited to the
needs and desires of a given neighborhood and
prepared to accommodate young boys and girls as
well as adult groups. Greater stress has been
placed upon so-called low organized games and
the crafts. This does not mean that high or-
ganized games have been entirely eliminated from
the schedules. Recently additional active sports
were added in the introduction of boxing, arch-

ery, paddle tennis, badminton, deck tennis, open—
air basketball, shufHeboard, handball and ping—

pong.

The significant change in the programs, how—
ever, has been the expansion of the art and craft
activities and of low organized games both on the
playgrounds and in the community centers. Sew-
ing, weaving, knitting, crocheting and rug making
have become immensely popular. Instruction is
being given in poster making, painting, drawing.
sketching and ceramics and participation in these
activities is increasing daily. Emphasis has been
placed upon musical activities with the creation of
orchestras and bands in the centers and jug bands
on the playgrounds. Groups in choral singing,
spirituals and other glee club ac-
tivities have made considerable
headway. Dancing of many types
is now very popular, including
clog, soft shoe. American folk
and modern. Considerable en-
thusiasm has been shown for the
drama. Several plays are pro—
duced each year and inter-center
contests are held. Marionettes
have a wide appeal. Much im—
provement has been made in pop-
ularizing low-organized games.
Checkers and chess are played

Many addifional games and varied
aciivifies are helping fo make fhe
presem‘ program more satisfying

 

,'

continuously, and many other progressive games
are in constant demand.

But these activities are only a few of the large
number being carried on in the centers and on
playgrounds. Much attention is given on the play—
grounds to the making of kites and model air-
planes and “Soap—Box Derby” autos. Classes in
model yacht building are conducted in the centers
under the direction of skilled workmen who vol-
unteer their time. Some of the centers have ini—
tiated news sheets containing monthly reports of
activities and items of interest to center par-
ticipants.

One of the most significant extensions of pro-
gram in the past two years has been the recent
organization of a nursery school at Central Bath-
house. The school has been in operation for sev-
eral months and has at the present time an enroll-
ment of thirty-five. The cooperation of the Child
Health Association was obtained to establish an
adequate program and secure a competent staff.
Funds to furnish the school were provided jointly
by private contribution and the Cleveland Foun-
dation. A health and parent education class is
held for mothers of children attending the nursery
school. The leader for this activity has been fur-
nished by the Health and Parent Education As-
sociation.

In addition to a more varied and interesting
program of activities in the community centers
and 011 playgrounds, another important improve-
ment has taken place in the lengthening of the

< a.

7 95%;“.gi

Photo by l’ViHiam F. Ncwkirk, Cambridge, 3103:.

338 ' PUBLIC RECREATION IN CLEVELAND”

program during the past two years. Heretofore
the playground season was ten weeks long, there
were five ‘days to the week and approximately
seven hours to the day. Now several after—school,
spring and fall playgrounds are being operated.
In addition, two city play spots carry on year-
round programs. That city playgrounds are open
but ten weeks in the year 'is due to lack of funds
for employment of additional supervision. Every
effort is made to keep some of the grounds open
on Saturdays and all of them in operation more
than seven hours a day. The two lighted play-
grounds are supervised until 10:00 P. M. every
night except Saturdays, and all of them are in
operation more than seven hours a day.

The building up of more adequate activity pro-
grams for the playgrounds and community centers
has not been a spontaneous development but a grad-
ual one carried on under serious financial handi-‘-
caps. It has entailed constant instruction of play-
ground and recreation center personnel. Formerly
little time was ' spent in instructing playground
workers. Now considerable attention is given to
coaching the leaders in making out activity sched-
ules, to methods of instructing young people in low
organized games and the arts and crafts, and to
methods of organizing tournaments, parties and
festivals. An institute for all playground work-
ers, with attendance compulsory, is conducted the
opening week of the regular season. Each week
of the season one morning is spent by the staff
in reviewing program forecasts, in discussing mis-
takes of the previous week, and in obtaining in—
struction in methods of teaching games and crafts
to the children. 9

Similarly, much stress hasbeen placed upon in-
structing community center personnel to develop
more adequate activity programs. Weekly staff
meetings are held at each of the centers and a
general staff meeting is conducted once a month.
At all of these meetings emphasis is placed upon
the necessity for setting up interesting and varied
programs of activity and upon discussion of pro-
gram objectives for the next week and of the ac-
complishments of the past one.

Mention should be made of the increased co-
operation with municipal sports associations. The
city has come to realize that it owes a tremendous
debt of gratitude to those civic-spirited individuals
who work untiringly and without compensation for
amateur sports in Cleveland. Accordingly serious
effort has been made to cooperate in every way
possible with organizations such as the Cleveland

Baseball Federation, the Municipal Basketball As-
sociation, and the Municipal Soft Ball Associa-
tion. The Commissioner and his assistant act in
an advisory capacity to the various groups and
the facilities of the Division have been placed at
the disposal of these associations. Two new
groups—the Cleveland Tennis Federation and the
Cuyahoga Amateur Boxing Commission—were
recently organized. All other associations have
expanded greatly and the increase of participation
in high organized league activities has been truly
amazing. '

The Budget and Other Financial
Considerations

In 1926 the appropriation for the Recreation
Division amounted to $87,870. When the present
administration took office in 1935, the Division of
Recreation was spending less than $30,000 a year.
Immediate steps were taken, with the help of the
Mayor’s Board, to increase the anntIal allotment.
In 1936, the City Council appropriated $44,000,
an increase of approximately fifty per cent over
the previous year. The major portion of the ap-
propriation was spent for salaries and wages. In
addition, larger appropriations were provided for
Supplies and miscellaneous equipment, and a truck
was purchased.

The amount spent by the Division in 1937 was
practically identical with the 1936 figure. The
failure to increase the amount was due primarily
to the emergency relief expenditures by the city
of several million dollars. As of August Ist, small
increases in pay were granted to the playground
personnel. ‘Although responsibility for maintain-
ing all playgrounds within the municipal system
and all other city play areas outside the park was
transferred to the Recreation Division on Janu—
ary 1, 1937, it was not found possible to appro-
priate additional funds to carry out these new
duties effectively.

The 1938 budget for the Division of Recrea—
tion when passed is expected to show a total ap-
propriation of close to $70,000. This amount,
however, represents in reality only a small in-
crease over the 1937 total. The lifeguard person-
nel budget has been transferred, in accordance with
provisions of the administrative code, from the
Bureau of Parks and Boulevards to the Division
of Recreation. Therefore, $15,156.00 of the in-
crease represents salaries of the lifeguards. An-
other large slice of the $70,000.00 allowance will

(Continued on page 370)

   

Learning to Ride '
the

Right
Hobby
Horse

ARLYLE ONCE SAID, “Happy is the man who
has found his work.” True as that still is,
we must remember that then man worked

most of the day and had little time for play. When
we realize that twelve hours was not an unusual
day’s work for six days a week in Carlyle’s age,
there was not much time or inclination for leisure
activities. But now with an eight hour work day
for five days per week, and an agitation for less,
there is more time for recreation. So we must
also add that “happy is the man who has found
his right recreation.”

Both the business executive and his unskilled
laborer have the task of finding the most enjoy-
able thing to do after work is over. One hears the
question so often, “What shall I do with my lei-
sure time ?” After counseling hundreds of young
men on how to find their best use of leisure time,
I have hit upon a plan by which almost any per-
son can find the right hobby horse for him to ride.

One of the difficulties is that so many people do
not know what leisure-time activities they want
to carry on or what they can do well. By “well”
I mean with sufficient skill so that they really en-
joy doing them. Moreover, many of those who
have selected some hobby do not know whether
they really prefer that to some other activity. One
reason for this is that most
people have not really tried out
a hobby to see if they really
like it and can do it, or‘have
not participated sufficiently in
a number of their most pre-
ferred leisure-time activities to
tell which they most enjoy.

My suggestion to these peo-
ple is, “Try. out a number of

"The best way to find the right hobby
may be for you to choose several of
those you like bestI learn all you can
about them in the order of your pref-
erence. read the best books on how
to do them, take lessons from experts
-—it you can afford it—and practice
sufficiently for you to be able to tell
yourself whether or not you want to
ride that particular hobby horse.'I

By

J. E. WALTERS
Purdue University

the activities you most
prefer or think you
would like best to do in
your leisure time.” You
may say that you
haven’t time to try out
four, five, or eight or
ten different activities,
but after all if you really
think about it, isn’t leisure
time just what you do have?
All you have to do is to start! “How can that be
done?” you may ask, when an individual does not
know which of many leisure activities he prefers.

One of the best ways of becoming interested in
something is to obtain information about it. Con—
sequently the first approach would be to think
over the various things you have done in your lei—
sure time, those which you have enjoyed most and
the things you would really like to do in your free
hours. Then make a list, after much thought and
rearrangement, of the ten leisure-time activities
or hobbies which you most prefer in the order in
which you prefer them.

Just to start your thinking you may wish to
consider the following:

Art appreciation Astronomy
5311198 Billiards
alnting .
Water Colors Br1dge and other
card games
Art work .
Painting in oil Campnfg
Sketching Collectmg
Sculpture Stamps, antiques
Water colors Cooking
Crafts
W oodworking and book-
binding
Dancing
Ballroom
Fancy
Old dances
Tap
Dramatics
Acting and producing
Flying

339

340 LEARNING TO RIDE THE RIGHT HOBBY HORSE

Gardening POIitiCS
Flower and vegetable Radio
Home games Raising animals
Motorcycling Reading
Music Smoking

Playing musical in-
strument and singing Sports

_ o . Boating
Musm apprec1ation Fishing
Nature study G0”

Trees ngdball

Wild flowers Hlkmg . .

Wild life Horseback riding

Birds and animals Huntlpg

Shooting

Pets Squash

Dogs Swimming

Cats Tennis
Photography Studying people
Picnics Writing

Let’s assume, for example, that after much
thought and study your selection of the three

most preferred activities included painting, golf'

and fishing, in the order named. Then how are
you to learn to ride your first hobby horse,
painting?

A general plan of approach is to learn every-
thing you can about that hobby (or hobbies) by
reading the best books on that subject, by talking
to the people who know or are expert at it, by
taking lessons (if your pocketbook will permit),
and then by practicing until you are good enough
to enjoy it.

You may say, “That sounds very well theoreti-
cally, but how does it work out practically?” Let
me relate the actual case of Ed who selected land-
scape painting in oils as his hobby at the age
when “life begins.” He had never painted before
and did not get a very good mark in drawing
when he was a boy in school. He liked to go to
art exhibits, and even helped to plan them and
hang the pictures.

One day at one of the exhibits an artist told
him that if he really wanted to learn to appreciate
paintings, he ought to try to paint himself. So he
decided to try out the plan recommended in this
article.

He wrote to the Metropolitan Museum of Art
in New York City, the Chicago Art Institute and
his state art museum, from each of which he ob-
tained a list of the best books on landscape paint-
ing in oils. When the three museums agreed upon
the best books, he bought four of the most rec—
ommended ones. He studied them carefully, and

made notes' on what he thought were important
things for him to remember and do. \

With this information in his head, he went to
a lumber yard, made an easel, found a box which
he could use as a paint box and beaver board on
which to paint. Brushes were obtained from the
five and ten cent store, and paints from the hard-
ware shop. He then talked to several of the local
artists about painting and a good amateur agreed
to help him. He began to practice what the books
told him to do and in a few weeks he Was going
sketching with the new art friend, enjoying learn-
ing how to paint. In two years he had painted
pictures that had received favorable comment
from the best artist in the town. As he improved
he bought better art supplies to do better painting,
which he enjoyed more and more. He tried simi-
lar plans of approachto golf and fishing but now
finds the most enjoyment in painting which he
has chosen as the hobby horse for him to ride.

I also remember Gordon who selected golf as
his first preferred hobby. He read and studied
everything in the local library on golf, talked to
golfers about the essentials, rented a set of clubs
and played on the municipal course until he
learned sufficiently well to tell him that he would
like golf as a leisure time activity. Some of the
good amateur golfers helped him, too. Birds of a
feather seem to flock together.

How will you ever know unless you actually
try?

Here is a plan of avocational self-guidance or
self-education. As all education is really self-edu-
cation, so it is necessary for each person to find
out his hobby by educating himself as to what
leisure activity he will enjoy most by learning
about and trying out several avocational pursuits.
Informed, factual self-guidance usually results in
greater happiness than the policy of following an
avocation someone tells you you should pursue.
Take the lead. It’s yours for the asking. And
you have the time to do it or you would not need
to find a use for your leisure time!

“A hobby makes you interesting to other peo-
ple. It is an old rule that to be interesting one
must be interested. The special skill or knowl-
edge that comes from pursuing a hobby makes
you more entertaining to others, and vastly more
interesting to yourself; gives you something to
show, to talk about to your friends as well as
something to do in your spare time.”

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Association of Philadelphia

N JANUARY, 1934, the Leisure Time Committee
I of the Palo Alto Community Center-decided

that a prograin which would allow for develop-
ments in the next ten years should be planned. At
that time there was much enforced leisure, and it
was easy to see that the future promised even
shorter working hours for adults. With this long
view in mind, it was felt that the adults of the
future would be better prepared to employ this
extra leisure if taught, as boys and girls, to fill
their free time with worthwhile activities, many
of which would carry over into adult life.

A committee of nine citizens was appointed by”

the Community Center Commission to develop a
children’s museum, and Mrs. Josephine O’Hara, a
local woman of broad vision and understanding,
was selected as the curator. '

This was, for the West, a new venture. al-
though a children’s museumihad been established
some years earlier in Los Angeles, and Palo Alto’s
beginning in 1934 was in every sense a try-out.
The museum board, of which the first chairman
was Mrs. Frank B. Duveneck, Director of the
Peninsula School of Creative Education, was en-
thusiastic, and the townspeople were most cooper-
ative. A room in the Public Library was loaned
for three months, and as the attendance and in—
terest were both sustained at the end of that per-
iod, it was decided to find a location where the

museum could develop.

A Museum

for

Children

In the Children's Charter occur
these words: ''For every child a
commUnity which recognizes and
plans for his needs . . . provides
him with safe and wholesome
places for play and recreation and
makes provision tor his social
and cultural needs.” This Palo
Alto. California, is doing through
its Children's Museum.

The great lack then, as now, was money. The
Board had set up a membership fund and this
was the only source of income. However, the
superintendent of schools and the Board of Edu-
cation felt the aims of the museum should be en—
couraged, and granted the use of a basement in
one of the grade schools, with janitor service and

utilities free.

Between 1934 and 1937 the museum grew so
fast that there were too many exhibits for one
room, and too many cases, too! Cases were then
placed in five of the city schools, exhibits were
rotated and allied talks were given at these
schools. In the fall of 1937 the museum board
asked permission to use space in Palo Alto’s
beautiful Community Center. On December 10,
1937, the large basement in the children’s theater
wing of that building was opened as a children’s
museum. Now two units are maintained: the
headquarters at the Center, and the small room
in the grade school in a distant part of the city.

The membership dues and benefits given for the
museum are not sutiicient to cover salaries, and

since January, 1936, funds for these have been
provided by the WPA and the NYA. The mu-

seum also has volunteer leaders.

So much for historical background. Now, to
give a picture of the organization and some of the

activities.
341

342 A MUSEUM FOR CHILDREN

Exhibits and Work Sections

First, there are exhibits in cases and on the
walls, not too many things on view at a time, and
all labeled in simple language. These exhibits
touch several fields of interest: costumes and cus-
toms of people in other lands, model boats and
planes, nature specimens of local interest and cur-
rent event items.

Then there are the work sections: in the Cen-
ter, museum space is made possible by means of
movable screens donated by a local lumber firm
to separate the group working on airplanes or
ships from the group which is editing the mu-
seum newspaper, or the one making clay models,
one of the most popular activities.

On Saturday morning one may stand at the en-
trance to the museum and see a group of boys
sawing and whittling .on boats; a group of boys
and girls sketching in crayon or pencil; another
making bows and arrows so that they can com-
pete in archery contests; and looking into an ex-
hibit case are a couple of youngsters trying to
figure out the size of a mammoth’s jaw if one
tooth were really that big!

Clay modelling, wild fiower collecting, stamp
collecting! “What do you like to do? The mu-
seum will be glad to help all children.” “You
don’t want to collect anything? You don’t like to
make anything?” “Oh, well! Don’t you like to
hear talks and see movies? We have these in-
terests, or you may take some of the magazines
or books and get off in a corner to read.”

At the children’s museum emphasis is laid on
the individual. Here he is given every oppor—
tunity to develop and create. He is also given
responsibility; the materials he uses must be re-
placed, and in his conduct he must consider others
working with or near him.

A Junior Advisory Board

The junior Advisory Board has recently been
inaugurated, an idea borrowed from the Indian-

apolis Children’s Museum, with nine members -

drawn from the junior and senior schools, to meet
bi-monthly with the curator. They make sugges-
tions regarding exhibits and lectures and act as
publicity agents for the museum. This very live
Junior Board promises to prove most valuable,
obtaining at first hand, as it does, the reactions
from boys and girls using the museum. At its last
meeting this board proposed that posters be made
and put in both the Boy and Girl Scout houses,

showing how the museum can help Scouts who
are working for merit badges.

Projects of Various Kinds

The extensive nature collections—birds’ skins,
mounted birds and birds’ eggs, marine specimens,
geological specimens and pressed wild flowers, all
carefully labeled—can be used by students inter-
ested in these subjects. Members of the Stanford
University faculty have been most generous in
contributing to these collections and in helping to
classify gifts from other donors. The collections
are not all on view, one reason being that there is
not enough space to show them, and the other that
there are seasonal interests to be followed and
stimulated by exhibits.

The new Center unit was opened with “Indians
of America” as the main feature exhibit. This
was chosen because the junior grades had been
studying Indians and enjoyed finding something
familiar and yet new. When questions are asked
about these exhibits the cases are unlocked and
the articles may be handled and discussed. Chil-
dren frequently bring their easels and draw at the
cases. The Indian exhibits were largely loaned
and have now gone back to their owners; the
feature exhibit at the present is “Transportation,”
for which exhibit the museum is particularly in-
debted to the Union Pacific Railway for the elec-
tric working model of a railway. Pictures and
maps, models of ships, airplanes and wagons are
included in this exhibit. The Junior Board mem-
bers were helpful in assembling these models.

In conclusion, it would be well to mention the
helpful corps of able volunteers who conduct the
stamp club, the newspaper staff, the painting
group and the garden pro j ect.,Without these many
willing workers, the interest of the Palo Alto
Community Center, and the cooperation of both
the public schools' and Stanford University, few
of the worthwhile achievements of the children’s
museum could have been accomplished during the

past four years of its existence.

“Children’s museums solve important leisure
time problems of children. They motivate activ-
ities which are carried on in the home, which pro-
tect a child from harmful influences and stir his
ambition to engage in educational and cultural
pursuits. They enable children to build up a rich
mental background for their future reading, school
work, and all other undertakings of their lives.”

—-—Amm B. Gallup.

-—*_—.

uNlore Games, Please!"

HE FOLLOWING games are
Tsuggested as particularly

well suited for a family
party and home recreation in
general.

parties."

‘ Games for a Family Party

Progressive Ping Pong. The
equipment for this game con-
sists of a table five feet by nine
feet or one of smaller size;
two to four ping pong paddles, one ball and net.
The game is played according to the rules for
ping pong with one exception—~it is played by
partners who take turns in returning the ball
across the net. For example, A and B are play—
ing C and D. A serves, C returns, B serves, D
returns, and so on until one person misses and. a
point is scored. Partners may use separate pad-
dles or both may use the same one, thus making
the game more difficult.

Blow Ball. For this game it is necessary to have
a ping pong ball—a blown out egg may be used
as a substitute—a regulation ping pong table or
a dining room or kitchen table, or from two to
four card tables placed together. A line should be
drawn in the center of the table. The object is to
blow the ball from one side of the table past the
center line and off the opposite side before the
opponent can return the ball to the starting point.
The game may be played by two people or more.

Four in a Row. Each player is provided with a
piece of paper on which are drawn sixteen squares.
The first player calls out any letter he wishes. All
the players write it down in any one of the sixteen
squares. The second player calls out a letter, and so
on until sixteen letters have been called. The object
of the game is to place the letters in the squares in
such a way that they form four letter words. The
player with the largest number of words wins.
Words may be read across, diagonally, or up and
down, and may start with any letter in the line.

Jack's Going Strong. The players are seated
around an open fireplace. One person places a
long splinter in-the coals until it is glowing but
not burning. He then passes the splinter to his
neighbor saying, “Jack’s going strong.” The
object of the game is to pass “Jack” to the next
person before it goes out. The person left with

"Please send us more games and sug-
gestions for social recreation and
Possibly no request comes
more frequently than this. And so.
in the first fall issue of the maga-
zine. at a time when many recrea-
tion workers are planning their in-
door programs. we are presenting a
few games. Many of them will be
familiar to you. You may. however.
find some you have never used.

the splinter when it is burned
out must pay a forfeit. Great
care must be taken to make
sure no one is burned.

Call Another. Players are
seated in a circle. Beginning
with Number One all are num-
bered consecutively until each
has a number. Number One
calls a number. The person
whose number is called must
immediately call another. This continues until a
player misses or fails to answer. The player who
misses goes to the foot of the line. All players
beyond him move up one place, and each changes
his number as he moves toward the head. The
object of the game is to secure Number One seat
and stay there.

How. When and Where. One player, the ques-
tioner leaves the room and the other players de-
cide on a word, which should be a noun. The
more different meanings it has the better. Good
examples are cord, pane, and hand. Then the
questioner comes back and begins by asking each
of the others “How do you like it?” If “hand”
has been chosen one might say “full of money” or
“with lots of aces” or “strong and willing” (a
hired hand). When he has all the “How” an-
swers, he asks “When” he likes it. The answer
might be “During harvest season,” “When I have
to reach,” “When my head itches.” Finally, the
“Where” question is asked. Replies might include
“In the cookie jar,” “In my pocket.” Usually the
word is discovered before all questions are asked.

The player whose answer gives away the word
becomes the next questioner.

Old-Fashioned Spelling Bee. A variation of this
old time favorite is to require the speller to raise
his right hand to the height of his right ear and
bring it back to his side again instead of repeating
the letter “A,” and the same for the left hand, for
“T.” Some words which will make a great deal
of fun out of this are:

cat artist abstract Antarctic
atlas attest attract Atlantic
state Alabama toothache tablet
altar attain transact tantalize
battle attach maintain anthracite
tatter tartar martial automatic

343

344 “MORE 0/41le5, PLEASE !"

If it is desired to make it still more difficult,
have the speller nod his head for the letter “E”
in addition to the above. The scoring may be done
by sides or individually.

Robinson Crusoe. A card is given each player
with the following question written upon it. “What
ten essential things would you choose from a sink-
ing ship if you were being wrecked upon a desert
island ?" Experts have answered the question
with the following list:

1. Gun and ammunition

2. Fishing tackle

3. Axe

. Magnifying glass (start fires)

. Bucket

. Tent

. Cooking pan

. Binoculars (to sight ships)

. Volume of encyclopedia (for fiora and fauna)
. Knife

00 OO\I Chin-l3

Party Games

Big Fat Hen. Here is a game to play at table or
with a group seated in a circle. The first player
says, “A big fat hen.” The second player. re-
peats it, and so on around the circle. The first
player then'says “Two ducks and a big fat hen.”
This goes around. Then: “Four plump partridges,
two ducks and a big fat hen,” and so on, using the
list given below. Each person must repeat the
statement quickly and without error. If a mistake
is made, or the player hesitates too long, he is out
of the game. If any survive the “Ten thousand
domesticated chimney swallows," make up more
and longer sentences.

A big fat hen

Two ducks

Three wild geese

F our plump partridges

Five pouting pigeons

Six long—legged cranes

Seven green parrots

Eight screeching owls

Nine ugly black turkey buzzards

Ten thousand (.lomesticated'chimney swallows.

Pull Over. Draw a line across the lioor or on the
ground. One team stands on one side; the other,
opposite the first. Members of one team try to
pull the other players across
into their own territories. Pull-p
ing must be “hand to hand” and
not involve clothes or other
parts of the body. Players strug-
gle with single opponents-—two
against one isn't fair.

Many other suggestions for games
and social activities are to be
found in ll(-Ivames for Quiet Hours
and Small Spaces." a booklet ob-
tainable from the National Recre-
ation Association for fifty cents.

Tin Can Boxing Match. Two opponents are
blindfolded and each is armed with a can con—
taining pebbles in his right hand and a boxing
glove on his left. They rattle the cans continually
in an endeavor to locate each other by ear in order
to land a blow with the gloved hand. Spectators
should form a circle to serve as a ring.

Copenhagen. All the players but one stand in
the circle with hands on a rope. The odd one, or
“it,” stands in the center. The center player tries
to slap the hands of the other players as they rest
on the rope, and the players in turn try to elude
him by withdrawing their hands. It is a rule of
the game, however, that only one hand may be
withdrawn at a time. “It” may use only one hand
in slapping.

Whistling Women. Type out the titles of popu—
lar songs. Line men up thirty feet from the girls.
Give each girl a folded paper bearing the title of a
song. On “go” she runs to her partner and
whistles the tune called for. As soon as her part-
ner recognizes the tune, he runs back to the
judges, carrying the folded slip. He states the
title, the judges check with the slip and, if this
game is a relay, the second girl runs up to whistle
if the title was correct, otherwise the first girl
must whistle again.

The Riddle of the Cider Barrel—A Mathegram.
When Bill Jones wanted to buy a barrel of cider
from Farmer Brown, the farmer had left only
about half a barrel. Bill looked into the barrel
and thought it was less than half full, while the
farmer thought it more than half full. How did
they settle the matter without using any kind of
measuring device? '

They tipped the barrell until the cider was just
about to overflow. If any of the bottom was
visible, it meant that the barrel was less than half

full. If none of the bottom was visible, the barrel
was more than half full.

Missing Letters. This game may be played with
any number of people. To begin the game a player
makes up a sentence in which one letter occurs
frequently. After that has been done, he takes
that letter out of the sentence and joins all the
rest of the letters together in
proper sequence. A good sen-
tence would be, “Sam Simpson
saw some sissal grass." Wiith
the letter “5” taken out. the

sentence would look like this:
(Continued on page 370)

 

Courtesy American Forestry Association .

ESULTS in terms of human values which are

being revealed after five years of state.

county and metropolitan park development
with the assistance of Federal emergency
funds were reported to the National Confer:
ence on State Parks at meetings in which ap-
proximately 140 persons were registered.

Reports by representatives of Southern
States revealed that State park systems are
just beginning to make their full value known
in this region. Various technical phases of
park acquisition, development and administra-
tion were discussed by State officials and
representatives of the National Park Service
and other Federal agencies. The newly or-
ganized Tennessee Department of Conserva-
tion was host for the conference, and Governor
Gordon Browning spoke at the conference
banquet. Colonel Richard Lieber of Indiana-
polis, president of the National Conference on
State Parks since 1933, was re-elected.

The Conference decided to hold its 1939
annual meeting at Itasca State Park, Minne-
sota. The next regional meeting will be held
in New Jersey in October. Definite dates will
be decided later.

At the

National Conference

0

State Parks

A report of the Eighteenth National
Conference of State Parks held at
Norris, Tennessee, May ll-IA, l938

The Banquet Program

High spot of the conference was the ban—
quet which closed the formal program.
Governor Browning informed the group
that no greater material question confronts
the American people than conservation. He
declared that Tennessee aims to have a
recreational area within an hour and one—

half drive of all its citizens to provide leisure
time occupation at modest cost. “\Ve cannot
afford as a State not to make an investment
in our worn out lands,” he said. “It will pay
dividends if we wait long enoughwand we can
wait.” He revealed a plan to convert into
forest lands properties taken over by the
State for non-payment of taxes, and pledged
that Tennessee is prepared to cooperate fully
with 'the National Park Service and other
Federal agencies in conservation programs.
“\Ve shall live up to our heritage by re-build-
ing our resources,” the Governor said.
Warning against competing forms of land
use which threaten the park movement was
issued by Director Arno B. Cammerer of the
National Park Service, who urged that all true
park conservationists unite to protect the
interests of. the people in this field. “In the
development of local, State, and regional
plans,” said Mr. Cammerer, “each organized
commercial interest has used every power at
its command to be certain that every square
foot of the territory should forever be open to
that interest’s particular type of exploitation.
Not one organized commercial interest is will-

345

346 AT THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STATE PARKS

ing to keep its hands off of an area of park
caliber until it has plowed, harrowed, win-
nowed and sifted every particle of the area
for the last possible measure of value; then it
is quite willing to turn the area over for the
benefit and enjoyment of the public, to be
restored and rehabilitated at public expense.
The story and the play are old, but the cast is
organized and modern.”

The National Park Service director urged
that the National Conference on State Parks,
in conjunction with the American Planning
and Civic Association, be “more than a clear-
ing house of information,” and .constitute a
“nation-wide organ for focusing park Opinion
and leading park support. Such an organiza-
tion could implant parks so firmly into our
national consciousness and into our national
scheme that no selfish drives, no predatory
raids, would be successful.”

Pearl Chase, park and conservation leader
of Santa Barbara, Calif., emphasized the need
for conservation education in the schools and
recommended that while those in the move-
ment should supply the information, the
method of teaching should be left to educators.

The First Day’s Session

The first day’s session of the conference was
devoted to greetings, introductions, and re-
ports from the Southern States. Governor
Browning’s initial message to the conference
was conveyed by Mr. Brewster. In his annual
address to the conference, Colonel Lieber
touched on park selection, planning, develop-
ment and administration. Emphasizing the
importance of avoiding mistakes by placing
parks in the hands of competent personnel, he
urged that civil service be generally applied.

“It should be improved by putting the whole
‘works’ under competent civil service,” he said,
“and by the whole ‘works’ I mean not only

the unprotected part in the National Park '

Service, but the entire CCC. The building,
planning and maintenance of all.parks is so
completely bound up with public weal that we
should eliminate from it all partisan politics.
It has truly been said that Democracy is the
luxury of a rich nation, but are we really so
rich that in the wasteful turnover of politics
we can afford to sacrifice knowledge and ex-
perience and bog down once more to hit or
miss practices of the rule of the thumb ?”

Anticipating a report submitted later in the
conference on a plan for training park men,
Colonel Lieber observed that the plan “means
even more than the offering of opportunity to
the individual; it means the serving of a na—
tional ideal that to each citizen however
humble be guaranteed equal chances.” Ob-
serving that “a park to live must earn its liv-
ing,” he declared that ways have to be found
by the States to put their investments on an
income basis and warned that if they are made
dependent on appropriations, these appropria-
tions will either be treated by the legislators
as charity or as a political investment. It is
better, he advised, to place parks on a busi-
ness basis and operate them “in the interest of
the people.”

Colonel David C. Chapman of Knoxville, one

i of the early leaders in the movement for esta—

blishment of Great Smoky Mountains National
Park, described some of the efforts to create
this park. Miss James gave her annual report
as executive secretary of the Conference. The
session was presided over by Charles G.
Sauers, general superintendent, Cook County
Forest Preserve, Illinois.

What the States Are Doing

The afternoon session was in the charge of
Herbert Evison, associate regional director,
Region I, National Park Service. Colonel Page
S. Bunker, State forester and director of parks,
reported for Alabama that the State now has
fifteen State parks and two State monuments,
all but one of which have some degree of de-
ve10pment. They total 27,000 acres, including
3,000 acres acquired in the last year. Recent
emphasis has been on more systematic admin—
istration and development, he said.

Speaking for Ge0rgia, Charles N. Elliott,
director of State parks, said that with the
State’s park organization little more than a
year old, there were four State parks opened
last year. The State advertised for patronage
of the parks, he said, and more people re—
sponded than could be cared for. Fees and
charges grossed $10,000 for the parks, which
made it possible to acquire more equipment.

S. G. Davies, director of State parks in
Arkansas, said the State’s ten State parks, live
larger wilderness areas, one local recreational
park and two historical parks total 15,835
acres. The State, he said, is proud of the work

AT THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STATE PARKS 347

done by the Civilian Conservation Corps under
technical supervision of the National Park
Service. A Negro park has been established
in Arkansas.

In the last four years Mississippi has ac-
quired ten State parks totaling 12,500 acres,
it was reported by J. H. F ortenberry, director
of State parks. The State is planning its first
Negro park near Jackson. Mississippi is aim-
ing to develop parks convenient to all the peo-
ple and is basing its planning on the fact that
Mississippi peOple are largely rural and enjoy
getting away from the crowds.

R. A. Walker, assistant State forester, said
for South Carolina that State park development
there has been very rapid since the system was
established in 1933. There are now fourteen
parks totaling 21,000 acres, and the State also
contains two Federal recreational demonstra—
tion areas, one of which adjoins an existing
State park. All South Carolina parks are with-
in sixty miles of the people The State feels its
park system is complete as to the number of
areas, although some may be enlarged. State
authorities are opposed to admission fees, be-
lieving they would exclude many persons most
in need of the parks. There are, however,
charges for special services Visitors to the
parks last year numbered 453,873.

R. E. Burson, director of State parks f0r
Virginia, said the State’s system was started
in 1930 as the result of interest aroused over
the movement to establish Shenandoah Na—
tional Park. Policies governing the system
were evolved from study of other States, he
explained. The State charges admission fees,
feeling it cannot afford to operate “free”
parks. Thus, the parks are sixty-nine per cent
self-supporting. The State has six State parks
in addition to the national park and a national
historical park.

The State park system in Kentucky began
in 1936 with the gift of a park to the State,
although the serious acquisition and develop-
ment program started in 1933, according to
Bailey P. Wootton, director of State parks.
Of the nine State parks, only five or six are
open for extensive use. Two or three more are
expected to be opened next year. All the parks
are “self-supporting,” General Wootton said.
An admission charge of ten cents for adults
and five cents for children is made. The
speaker warned against over—development of

parks, but observed that more publicity is
needed to attract people to the areas. '

Scenic, botanical, and historical values were
the basis for selection of Florida’s State parks,
said H. J. Malsberger, director of- State parks.
He explained that although the system is three
years old only one area is open to the public.
The State has nine parks totaling upward of
16,000 acres. On the area in use—Highlands
Hammock State Park—an admission charge of
thirty-five cents is made for a car and driver,
and fifteen cents for each additional passenger.
This nets the State $500 to $600 a year exclu-
sive of the collector’s salary. Mr. Malsberger
observed that six per cent of Florida drivers
and nine per cent of drivers from other States
turned away from the gates on learning the
admission charge. He said Florida’s State park
needs call for parks along the State’s 3,000
miles of seacoast and within a 50-mile radius
of cities as well as for rural areas.

Opposing an admission charge to parks,
Nicole Simoneaux, secretary of the Louisiana
State Parks' Commission, said he believed peo-
ple would rather spend ten dollars in a park
than ten cents to get in. A bill proposing a tax
on gifts to finance State parks failed in the
Legislature, he reported.

From R. A. Livingston, director of State
Parks for Tennessee, the conference learned
that the State’s.parks have been established
and developed since 1933 with Federal aid re—
ceived through the Civilian Conservation
Corps, Tennessee Valley Authority, and other
agencies. It is expected the system will ulti-
mately total fifteen areas comprising 60,000
acres. Tennessee parks are now situated with-
in two hours drive of practically all the people.
Mr. Livingston stressed the fact that the State
must maintain and protect the developments
accomplished by Federal agencies.

The part which TVA has taken in recrea—
tional developments in Tennessee was de-
scribed by C. A. Towne, engineer connected
with the Authority. Citing an agreement on
recreational developments reached in 1934 be-
tween the TVA and the National Park Service,
Mr. Towne described the present as a “period
of transition” during which TVA is “getting
out of the park business” and cooperating more
with State agencies as deveIOpments near com-
pletion.

348 AT THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STATE PARKS

The Second Day’s Program

The second day of the conference included a
trip by boat and automobile to Big Ridge Park
where a program devoted to discussion of
various technical phases of park acquisition,
development, and administration was given in
the park lodge. This session was presided over
by Tom \Vallace, editor of the Louisville (Ky.)
Times. “Elements of a Good State Park Plan”
was the subject of S. Herbert Hare, landscape
architect, of Kansas City, who said a system
of parks is recognized as an important element
in any State plan. He urged that specific pro-
vision be made for park financing with a State
park division under a Department of Conserva-
tion.

Albert H. Good, consulting architect of the
National Park Service, spoke on “State Park
Architecture.” He advocated the building of
necessary structures in less scenic parks near
population centers, on the ground that “the
justification for structures varies inversely as
Nature’s endowment of the park area.” Defi—
ciency of natural values in parks “can only be
compensated for by introducing other values,
recreational in character and very generally
dependent on structures,” he observed.

Speaking as a park administrator on “State
Park Landscape Architecture,” D. N. Graves,
secretary of the State Game and Fish Commis—
sion, Arkansas, observed that State park land-
scape architecture is now superior to the
standard formerly acceptable for national
parks. He urged that park personnel be placed
under civil service.

James F. Evans, director of State parks for
New York, discussed financing of park sys-
tems and programs. He recommended the
bond issue method as used in New York. He
also advocated that parks be made to produce
revenue. Mr. Evans urged that park personnel
be placed under civil service.

“State Park Engineering” was the subject
of Charles C. Estes, chief construction engineer
of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County, Ill. Mr. Estes recommended that
State park engineering be given a separate
classification as “landscape engineering” be-
cause of the special field it embraces. The
park engineer must have a feeling for landscape
architecture as well as for his own work, and
must subordinate his structural work to the
landscape. The National Conference on State

Parks would do well to promote this idea with
universities, Mr. Estes believes.

The duties and responsibilities of a State
park superintendent were discussed by Harold
\V. Lathrop, director of State Parks for Minne—
sota. Involved in the superintendent’s work,
he explained, are such problems as“ land and
water protection, wildlife conservation, main-
tenance and improvements, and fiscal pro-
cedure.

Paul V. Brown, associate regional director
of the National Park Service for Region II,
spoke on what the average man expects to find
and do in a State park. He urged that park
people avoid regarding their areas as sanc-
tuaries and “resenting” public intrusion. Facili-
ties which people can and will use should be
provided. I

In an evening session presided over by
Frank A. Kittredge, regional director of Region
IV, National Park Service, covering the west—
ern States, John C. Caldwell, educational
director of the Tennessee Conservation De—
partment, explained how the Department is
conducting conservation education in the
schools by assisting in setting up courses and
providing information.

A comprehensive report on the pr0gram of
the Park, Parkway and Recreational—Area
Study which is being conducted throughout
the country jointly by the National Park Serv-
ice and the States, was given for Conrad L.
VVirth, assistant director of the National Park
Service, by Robert C. Robinson, recreational
planner of Region I.

Mr. Robinson explained that preliminary
reports on the Study have been completed by
Illinois, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Tennessee, and Virginia. He gave
a digest of each of these reports and observed
that it is expected preliminary reports will be
completed before the end of the year by Ala-
bama, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Geor-
gia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
New Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Caro—
lina, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. As soon as
preliminary reports have been received from
a group of States forming a recreational region,
the Study will be advanced to the regional
stage. The object of the study is to produce

AT THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON STATE PARKS 349

State plans for park and recreational areas and
programs for each State.

The Park, Parkway and Recreational-Area
Study in Indiana was discussed by C. A. de
Turk, State park engineer of the Department
of Conservation, who said the absolute neces-
sity of the study became apparent in the first
six weeks after it was started. It was found
that many facilities emphasized by the park
authorities in the State were not the type most
used by park visitors.

Policies and Developments

At the morning session on Friday, at which
Earle S. Draper, director of the TVA Depart—
ment of Regional Planning Studies, presided,
Roberts Mann, superintendent of maintenance
of the Cook County Forest Preserve District,
Illinois, presented his report on “A Program
of Education in Landscape Management.” He
declared that the development of native land-
scape areas for recreational use has proceeded
faster than the development of men trained in
their design, operation and maintenance. He
presented a comprehensive plan providing for
short courses of instruction for groups of par-
tially trained men in the lower income brackets,
at universities or regional centers, and for
undergraduate instruction in the universities.
Also considered in the report were “return
courses” for men in the higher income brackets
actively engaged in landscape management,
and “institutes” or “congresses” to keep such
men abreast of the latest developments in their
profession, as well as summer employment of
undergraduates specializing in landscape man-
agement and the selection of a short but in—
clusive title for “this hybrid profession.” He
suggested the title “Landscape Management.”

In discussing “Interstate Agreements and
Compacts,” George W. Olcott, park planner,
of the National Park Service, explained that
such agreements are effected for the purpose
of providing for proper management of park
areas which “straddle” State boundaries, and
explained the provisions of the compact
through which the Palisades Interstate Park
Commission of New York and New Jersey
was established.

Dr. Carl P. Russell, regional director of
Region I, National Park Service, spoke on
“Recreational Development in the National
Parks.” He observed that park authorities

must be prepared to give the people what they
want within the limits of the park facilities
which can be provided. Facilities for active
recreation will not injure the inspirational
values of State parks. Observing that national
parks can handle only a certain maximum of
visitors, Dr. Russell pointed out that people
must turn to State and local parks for more
frequent and more intensive use.

Trends in organized camping on public
areas were discussed by Julian H. Salomon,
field coordinator of the National Park Service,
who emphasized the value of camping in the
education and character development of the
child. Children learn things through camping
that they could never learn in the class room.
The organized camping program of the Na-
tional Park Service through the recreational
demonstration areas it is developing was ex-
plained.

A year’s review of State park legislation was
presented by R. A. Vetter, assistant attorney
of the National Park Service. The tendency
in establishing park organizations favors three
forms—the departmental form, such as a con-
servation department; the board of commission
form, in which are centered two or more con-
servation activities; and the board or commis-
sion concerned with parks only.

In the field of administration, Mr. Vetter
said, there is a tendency to favor the appoint—
ment of administrative bodies of persons famil-
iar with and actually interested in the work.
There is also a tendency toward elevation of
park standards. Unification of control and ad-
ministration is making progress, and better
coordination is thus being effected. “State
park legislation of varying character, but rep-
resenting in the aggregate a considerable mass
of laws, has been enacted duiing the past few
years. Underlying much of this legislation
has been a search for the best form of park
organization. Other measures have been de-
signed to strengthen and extend existing agen-
cies.”

The story of the Appalachian Trail now
covering 2,050 miles from Maine to Georgia,
by Paul M. Fink, member of the Board of
Managers of the Appalachian Trail Conference.

Mr. Draper discussed the subject of “Park-
ways and Freeways,” explaining the freeway,
While not primarily a recreational drive, fea-

(Comimwd on page 37])

 

A Recreation Council
of Boys

HE Boys" RECREATION COUNCIL of Two

Rivers was created in an effort to evolve a

more effective method of publicizing our ac-
tivities in public and parochial schools. For many
years we had been announcing our activities for
grade school children in the newspapers and
through bulletins furnished the teachers, but we
discovered that many children were not partici-
pating and that schools would sometimes drop out
of an activity with no apparentoreason for such
action.

Responsibilities Are Delegated

\Ve asked each teacher of a grade served by
our program to appoint an outstanding boy in her
class to become a member of our newly-created
Boys’ Recreation Council. These boys were des-
ignated as counselors, and at the first meeting we
explained the purpose of the organization and the
functions we hoped they would perform. All pub-
licity on recreation activities was to be sent to
them, and they were to be responsible for pre-
senting it to their grades either through word of
mouth announcements or on the bulletin board, or
both. They were also to be re-
sponsible for the organizing
and reporting of all competing
groups and for serving as
“trouble shooters” when some
group failed to appear accord-
ing to schedule. Each coun-
selor was expected to report
the percentage of participa-

350

Many of the recreation activities in
Two Rivers, Wisconsin. center in the
beautiful community building present-
ed to the city by J. E. Hamilton and
intensively used by boysI girls and
adults. In addition. school gymnasia
and a variety of outdoor facilities are
used in the well-rounded program op-
erated by the Recreation Commission.

A Wisconsin city discovers a
successful method tor develop-
, ing leaders among school boys

By ARTHUR ECKLEY

Director of Recreation
Two RiversI Wisconsin

tion of his grade and to explain why it may have
had a low percentage. The counselors were to
sound out the students in their grades regarding
new activities they might be interested in
taking up.

We feel that the project has developed into a
very effective course in leadership for boys in
grades five to eight inclusive. The boys enjoy the
responsibility given them and regard it seriously,
and through the plan they are deve10ping into
good leaders. Our program has been greatly en-
riched through suggestions from the boys, and we
know we are getting greater participation. The
teacher appreciates being relieved of this respon-
sibility, and we are satisfied that every child is
informed of the recreational opportunities open
to him. We can reach several hundred boys and
girls through our twenty-eight counselors with a
minimum of time and expense. We do not have
a girls’ council, but as far as I can see, there is

no reason why such a council should not be
equally effective.

'Outstanding citizens, such as the Chief of
Police, Fire Chief, and presidents of the various
civic clubs give ten-minute talks at the semi-
monthly Council meetings.
Once a month we hold a
jamboree to which the
counselors may invite their
grades. The program at the
jamboree consists of games, a
movie, and a short question
and answer period on the rec-
reation program.

 

A Rural Community Takes to Singing

HEN THE LEADER arrived for the first meet-
Wing, an assemblage of vehiclesmold cars,

new Fords, horses and buggies and de-
crepit wagons—was grouped about the little
schoolhouse. From the darkness came a voice:
“The singin’ teacher is here !” Dark forms darted
quickly through the door.

Inside, hovering over the one large coal stove
in the dark corner, were the farmers, their wives
and children, eighteen or twenty in all, each one
trying to get a little closer to the heat. ‘A man in
great hip-boots came forward in friendly fashion.
“How do, Miss! Here we are, awaitin’ for the
singin’ school. Ain’t sayin’ just how good we’ll
be, but you’ll soon be iindin’ that out.” Turning
toward the stolid group around the stove, he an-
nounced, “Better be taking seats now. The singin’
teacher is ready.” It was no use, they wouldn’t be
pried loose from the stove. One man protested,
“Reckon we can sing right here good as any
place.” Perhaps it would have been better to let
them stay there to begin. But after much coax-
ing and more or less pushing of each other about,
they sat at the double desks.

The oil lamps were the next problem. They
were hung in brackets and nailed high up on the
walls. No one would be able to read the words of
the songs! After some manipulating they were
got down and put on the desks. One man held a
lamp over the leader so she could see the music.

There was no musical instrument of any sort,
so all sounds must originate with the leader. She
talked with them first, drawing them out as she
could. Did they like music? Which kind best?
Did they listen to music on the radio? What in—
terested them most? Did they sing at home? Did
their children like to sing? What songs were their
favorites? One man answered for them all. There
wasn’t time for singing around the house—too
mUch work to be done. In the evening, when
there was a breathing spell, they turned on the
radio. There was a “right good blues singer”—
that was about the only good music there was to
listen to.

The song material brought by the leader scarce-
1y fitted into this interest. In fact she now saw
that most of what she had brought, though it was
simple, was still too advanced for them. How-
ever, she handed around a collection of folk-songs

This account of the first meeting of a com-
munity singing class in a tiny' isolated vil-
lage, is taken from "Enriched Community
Living." a publication which records the
findings of a number of interesting studies
made under the leadership of the Division
of Adult Education. Delaware State De-
partment of Education' Wilmington. The
group described was composed of farmer
folk who had to struggle hard to eke out
a living from the soil. The meeting came
at the end of a day of hard work for these
people' and for the leader as well. "But
the experience of the evening amply com-
pensated for the effort involved."

and rounds and suggested trying one they all
knew. Would someone choose a song? Silence.
“Suppose we try ‘Old Folks at Home’,” she pro-
posed, and started in herself, not too sure what
would happen. After some minutes she was join-
ed by the man who had acted as leader in all the
crises so far. His great voice was far from har-
monious but still exceedingly welcome. Almost
any sort of noise would help—if there were
enough of it so they couldn’t hear themselves per-
haps others might venture. Presently a timid
voice back of the stove came in too, then a child,
and then all the children; the noise was growing,
the leader was delighted!

The second verse was still noisier. The chil-
dren in front had lost their reserve and produced
amazing volume. Surely they couldn’t last long
under these circumstances, their throats would
never stand the shrill rasping tone. But, as long
as they sang, no matter what the quality—that
could be improved later. About a third of the
group was singing now. The others sat, faces
placid, eyes watching the leader intently.

Encouragement and praise after each verse
wrought wonders. They throve on being told they
could really sing and began to urge those not sing-
ing to “come on and help.” Now for something
funny—if they could laugh surely that would
help. The leader asked them to listen while she
sang “Mistress Shady.” Soon they were singing
it also, and after each time they had a good laugh.
They enjoyed that song tremendously and wanted
to sing it over and over again.

351

352 A RURAL COMMUNITY TAKES TO SINGING

\Vere they ready to undertake a round next?
The leader decided to try. “Are You Sleeping”
was proposed as the simplest to begin with. The
leader sang it slowly and asked them to try it
with her. After several trials this way, she asked
if they could do it alone. They made a brave
start. but broke down and had to go back to prac-
tice again. But how delighted they were when
they could sing each part without help! The next
step. singing it in groups as a round, was left
until another time.

“Do you suppose we could try ‘Swanee' ?” asked
a boy from the back seat who had not made a
sound before. The boys near him laughed boisi
terously. So the group sang “Swanee,” and the
boy sang every verse with them. More Stephen
'Foster songs followed, the men and boys singing
a verse alone. with everyone joining in the chorus,
then the women alone having their turn at a verse.
Competition set them all singing as nothing else
had done. The children fairly panted with exertion.

ly the next week the leader had assembled ma-
terial of a different type. Folk-songs, humorous
songs, religious songs, patriotic songs, state songs
—all had been collected and if necessary mimeo-
graphed. Nothing was scorned which might ap-
peal to their interests.

Twenty-five persons were waiting around the
coal stove for the second meeting. There was no
trouble this time to get them from the fire. They
took their seats and eagerly pointed out new
members. Two seemed to be very special, one
man a choir singer in a country church in his
day, and the other a younger man who com-
manded tremendous admiration for what he knew
about music. He could even read it, “and that's
more’n any of us can do.”

The men and boys chose seats far away from
the women, but after mUCh coaxing some of them
moved a few seats nearer. Lamps were, placed on
desks, music given out, and all was ready. First
they were determined to sing
the old songs, the ones sung
the last time. So they went
thrOUgh them all, varying by
competition between men and
boys, women and girls.

“Let Dan do a piece alone,”
someone suggested, “and
we’ll all help out near the
end." The old choir singer
was flattered and said he’d
“do what he could on it.”

Recreation workers in urban as well as
rural communities will be interested in
the report of the cooperative efforts of
leaders of adult groups in the State of
DelawareI which was published under the
title "Enriched Community Living—An
Approach Through Artand Music in Adult
Education.'I Copies may be secured from
the Division of Adult Education, Dela-
ware State Department of Public Instruc-
tion.WilmingtonI Delaware, at $l.00 per
copy. paper bound; $|.50, cloth bound.

When he finished his part and it was time for the
chorus to come in, there was a long pause and a
scramble to find the line—the group had been too
busy watching the soloist to keep the place.
Eventually everyone began, but each at a diffel-
ent time. The second attempt was much better.
They learned to start at the same time and with
no pause after the verse had been sung.

\Nith the help of the two “real” singers, “Are
You Sleeping” was sung as a round. They divided
into three groups, the two men and the leader each
taking charge of several persons. Soon each group
was singing as loudly as possible. No one listened
to find whether they were all together—that meant
nothing to them. Harmony—what was that? To
get through without “breakin’ under” was the.
main thing, and to their great pleasure they did it!

“Would you like to listen to three of us sing
the round P” asked the leader. “Hear how it
sounds when the three different parts are SUng
together. We call that harmony.” So the two
“singers” and the leader went through the round
and finished amid a burst of applause and cries of
“Go at it again.” The three repeated it, and then
the group wanted to try it, “to see if they could
come out right.” Great was their pride as they
finished, having learned that when they sang
lightly they could both hear the other parts and
also keep together. From then on rounds were the
favorite. This led to the two “specials” singing
bass. while the others “kept the tUne goin'.”
When they were sure of the melody, the leader
added the alto. The group was delighted. “W e'll
have this place clean full the next time, teacher,”
they assured her.

True enough! The third week there were
nearly forty. That night they worked on tone
quality, so cautiously, however, that none of the
enthusiasm was lost. One woman sang alto, her
own special alto to be sure, one that seldom har-
monized with the bass of the two “specials” or
with the melody. The leader
inveigled two other healthy
voices to join forces with
her, but after a few attempts
they gave up, saying they
didn’t like it H it “didn't
sound right,” they wanted to
go back to the “right part”
(the tune).

A request for “Santa
Lucia” was made by a new

(Continued on page 371)

A Basketball Sports Council

N NEARLY all towns sport
fields are monopolized
by the more skillful

players of the community.
Unless precautions are
taken, these players are
likely to use the sports areas
to the exclusion of the players of
average ability.

This was the situation in Green-
wich before the organization of
the Basketball Sports Council,the purpose of which
is to promote the game of basketball in a manner
which will tend to encourage mass part1c1pat10n
of those with athletic interests and to foster a
desire for higher standards of sportsmanship.

The Council is composed of men who, as repre-
sentatives of agencies in the town, have control of
a basketball floor or playing surface, and three
additional members elected at large at the annual
meeting for a period of one year. This group,
known as the Board of Governors, at the present
time consists of the following: a sports editor, a
minister, the superintendent of recreation, di—
rector of the Boys’ Club, a high school teacher,
the Y.M.C.A. director of physical education, the
high school director of physical education and the
assistant superintendent of recreation.

. The functioning of the Board of Governors is
delegated to an Executive Committee composed of
three members of the Board of Governors, one of
whom is Chairman of the Council. Sub-commit—
tees are appointed by the Executive Committee.
Each sub—committee consists of three members.
two selected from the Board of Governors and
one from the members of the Executive Com-
mittee. Sub—committees include: ((1) Education
and Publicity, (b) Rules and Regulations. (6)
Membership and Eligibility.

The Sports Council, wOrking in cooperation
with the Recreation Board, organizes well defined
basketball regulations. such as the following:

The Regulations

On or about October I 5th required Council
membership blanks are distributed to all sectlons

of the town.

One community has found the
solution of a number of its ath-

letic problems in the organization
of a Basketball Sports Council

By FRED C. COOMBS

Recreation Board
Greenwich. Connecticut

From the information on
the individual application
blank the Eligibility Com-
mittee may either accept or
reject the player for mem-
bership with the Council.
To be eligible a player must
be a resident of the Town of
Greenwich, except in the case of
students attending Greenwich
schools or those regularly em-
ployed by a Greenwich concern and participating
with a team representing that concern. Individual
and team applications are considered by the com-
mittee only once each week, such a regulation
preventing last minute additions to team rosters
on the night of a game.

The application blank reads as follows:

Individual Application Blank
GREENWICH SPORTS COUNCIL

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., hereby make appli-
cation for individual membership in the Greenwich

Sports Council and agree, if accepted, to fully com-
ply with all provisions as set forth in the Constitu-
tion and By—Laws of the Sports Council. I further
agree to abide by all decisions made by the Execu-

tive Committee or Board of Governors of the Sports
Council.

I desire, if accepted, to represent the . . . . . . . . . . ..
(Name of Team or Club) during the season of 1938
and further agree that during this season I will
represent no other team within the Town of Green-
wich without the full consent of the Executive Com-
mittee or Board of Governors of the Sports Council.

I hereby certify that I am a resident of the Town
of Greenwich.

n u I I u I - n - I u I u I I I I n l n u u I I I I a - a - u I a

a n I I I I n I I u I I I I I n - a I I I I a a a I n I I I I

Tel. No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Approved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .,., 19. ..
Chairman, Sports Council

Signature of Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

As teams are accepted by the Council the Rec-
reation Board provides an opportunity for prac-
tice periods during November and December
previous to any league openings.

On November 16th the Council sponsored a
stimulating and instructive. program to which
local basketball fans were invited. A college coach

353

354

was the speaker of the evening, and, in addition,

the sound-on-film entitled “Basketball” was pre-
sented. This film, recently released, illustrates the

coaching techniques of six nationally prominent
basketball coaches. '

During the month of December the Recreation-

Board conducts an examination for officials, se-
lection of which is not based entirely on the writ-
ten tests. Two oflicials are used in the “A” league.
In the others only one official is employed. Scorers

are provided for all leagues.
How are the teams for the various leagues

selected? This is the responsibility of each indi-
vidual team, and has proven most satisfactory.
League organization meetings are held the first of

December.
Benefits Derived

The number of players participating has in-
creased over thirty per cent since the organiza-
tion of the Sports Council. At the present time
fifty-three teams representing 550 different in-
dividual players are members of the Greenwich
Sports Council. These teams are playing in four
leagues conducted by the Recreation Board.

As the central body the Council coordinates all
agencies associated with basketball. It has proven
of great value in the program of the Recreation
Board for the following reasons: It has made pos-
sible a reasonable control over players, playing
areas and managers; it has increased participation
in the sport, promoted programs for the improve-
ment of coaching and playing techniques and em-
phasized the importance of fair play.

Constitution of the ‘Greenwich Sports Council

Article I

The name of this organization shall be the
Greenwich Sports Council.

Article I ImPurp ose

The purpose of the Greenwich Sports Council
shall be to promote sports in a manner which shall
tend to encourage mass participation of athletes
and to foster a desire for higher stands of sports—
manship in Greenwich. .

Our ideal shall be to educate players, teams,
spectators and all others directly concerned, to
appreciate fair play and clean sport.

Article I I I —M embership

Any organization which applies and signifies
its intention to abide by the purpose of this or-
ganization as stated in Article II of this Consti-

A BASKETBALL SPORTS COUNCIL

tution and who agrees to observe the by-laws of
the Council shall be eligible for membership in
the Council, on approval of its application to the
Greenwich Sports Council. This application shall

be made out upon a regular form to be supplied
by the organization.

Members to be eligible for the Board of Gov-
ernors shall have control of a floor, or playing
surface, in the Town of Greenwich, or they shall
be elected by the Board of Governors at the reg-
ular annual meeting. To remain eligible for the
Board of Governors any and all members shall be
required to attend fifty per cent of the regular
meetings occurring in any given year.

Article IV—Fmiction

This organization shall function through a
Board of Governors composed of Council mem-
bers in good standing having control of a floor
or playing surface in the Town of Greenwich, and
three additional members of the Council elected
at the annual meeting by the Board of Governors
for a period of one year.

The function of the Board of Governors shall
be designated to an Executive Committee com-
posed of three members of the Board of Gov-
ernors, one to be Chairman of the Council.

The Executive Committee may act with full
power at all times except while the Board of
Governors are in meeting.

Article VmSub-Committees

Sub-Committees shall be appointed by the Ex-
ecutive Committee and each committee shall con-
sist of three members, two to be selected from the
Board of Governors and one who shall be a mem-
ber of the Executive Committee.

1. Education and Publicity
2. Rules and Regulations
3. Memberships and Eligibility

Article VI—Eligibility
(Section 1) Participation shall be limited to
teams or organizations of Greenwich that have
made application and have been duly accepted by
the signatory members 'of this organization.
(Section 2) Individual participants to be eligi-
ble must be residents of the Town of Greenwich
except in the case of students attending Green-
wich Schools or those regularly employed by a
Greenwich concern and participating with a team
representing that concern.
(Continued on page 372)

.l

Recreational Training at a College

ECREA’I‘IONAL ACTIVITY at Antioch College
means more than taking part in a wide-
Spread intra-mural sport program, acting in

plays, singing in Glee Clubs, and the usual gamut
of undergraduate activities. The Antioch pro-
gram is very conscientiously developed with the
aim of producing a symmetrical individual, and
each student is specifically guided into effective
use of his leisure time. In addition there is the
unique fact that Antioch students—regular liberal
arts students—work under the cooperative sys-
tem which enables them to alternate periods of
regular academic study with equal-length periods
of holding down regular jobs under regular cir—
cumstances. The habits, skills, and ambitions de-
veloped on jobs provide intellectual stimulus, vo-
cational exploration, and avocational interests.

This year the college placed twenty-three un—
dergraduates (eight men and fifteen women) on
jobs involving recreational planning and leader—
ship. These positions are scattered from Provi-

While still studying
at Antioch College,
this girl is having the
opportunity ot
learning through
actual experience
'with such organiza-
tions as day nurser-
ies. how to play with
young children, and
is acquiring skill as
a p I a y | e a d e r

dence, Rhode Island, to Mooseheart, Illinois; the
employers include schools, clubs, hospitals. and
social settlement houses.

One of the opportunities was in a large psychia-
tric hospital. There, in addition to working with
patients individually, Antioch students organized
literary clubs and classes in modeling and nature
study, and taught music.

In settlement houses in three cities Antioch
girls worked with foreign-speaking mothers’ clubs,
taught tap dancing, crafts and swimming. and
coached dramatics. Recreational work in hospitals
involved, on one job, student nurses; on another,
convalescent children.

Other jobs held by Antioch students in the field
of recreation included working with underprivi—
leged children and with East Side boys, coaching
high school athletics, and assisting in the intra-
mural athletics program of Antioch College.

 

H. Hewett, Photographer, Cleveland, Ohio
355

Painless Adult Education

OT SIX MILES from the New
Jersey town of Fleming-
ton which sprung into so—

called fame a few years ago, lies the little village
of Stanton. It consists of about a dozen houses on
a main road that meanders over a saddle of the
mountain, with Pickle Mountain on one side and
Round Mountain on the other. But out of this
small and old—fashioned group of Revolutionary
houses have come some very new and modern
things.

Stanton was the first place in the county and,
in fact, in all rural New Jersey, where a school
playground was equipped, through the self-in-
spired efforts of the community, with play ap-
paratus, homemade swings, seesaws and equip—
ment. This happened over fourteen years ago.
Red Cross headquarters at Geneva, Switzerland,
asked permission to publish the plans and descrip-
tion of this rural playground in a bulletin cir-
culated in a dozen languages all over the world.

And the same one-room schoolhouse has been
the gathering place, last winter, for Stanton’s
adult education school—a rather imposing title for
such a simple enterprise. An active-minded young
farmer’s wife, a member of the local book re-
view club, read of schoolhouses in large com—
munities being utilized for this purpose and pro-
posed that we should branch out from literature
to the arts and sciences and reach a larger audi-
ence. From this idea grew the school which has
been held all winter with increasing interest and

attendance.

Of course it is a leisure-time activity, if leisure
can be obtained in the country, and no serious
children’s school would allow the hilarity and in-
terruptions which occasionally burst forth. When
the very young French teacher asks a mature-
minded scholar to stand up in class and describe
in French what he is wearing from chapeau to
soulz'er, his classmates can hardly be blamed from
getting some fun out of his mistakes! Or when
the astronomy lecturer is seriously telling how a
man who was making his own telescope accidently
dropped and broke the lens and some one asks,
“What did he say then ?”—-you can see that there
are mature minds at work!

The program of lectures was decided on by
asking people what they would like to study. Then

356

By CHARLES J. STOREY
Stanton. New Jersey

the availability of teachers for
these subjects was discussed. Vol-
unteers had to be pressed into
service as funds for lecture fees were scarce. Yet
the financial part of the enterprise so far has been
easily cared for.

The program finally decided on—~—and most of it
was, after the first lecture, for we were impatient
to start——-was a lecture or class every Wednesday
evening. So, on the first Wednesday of the
month there is astronomy; and on the second and
third, French and geology. On the fourth \Ned-
nesday a different subject each month is given and
we have had talks on travel, local history and
weather forecasting.

All of the faculty with but one exception come
from the immediate vicinity. The geology pro—
fessor is from Rutgers University, some thirty
miles away. His profession is forestry but his
hobby is geology. His course is very popular be-
cause he relates geology to everyday country liv-
ing. And that is not easy. We are learning about
the geological ups and downs of Jersey, what
makes soil and all sorts of entertaining and inter-
esting things about the hills and valleys and
streams with which we are so familiar.

The teacher of French, an expert young woman
from the high school at the county seat not many
miles away, probably enjoys her fifteen earnest
scholars who really want to learn more than some
of her classes of young people that she teaches
every day. And it is scarcely compulsory educa-
tion with the older folk. And why do people in a
farming district want to learn French anyhow?
That has been asked and the only answer is that
some of the people around here want to know an-
other language. If we don’t go traveling very far
at least we shall be able to read it and know what
a filet mignon is when we see one! It is a heart-
ening sign when people want to learn about some-
thing that has nothing to do with earning bread
and butter.

We are rather proud of the astronomy course.
It draws the capacity attendance, between thirty
and thirty—five persons. The amateur astronomer,
who in private life is concerned with a garage,
knows his stuff and has inborn teaching ability.
On fair nights he brings along his homemade tele-

(Continued on page 373)

Pittsburgh Awaits

the

Recreation Congress

By LOUIS C. SCHROEDER

IT’FSBURGH AWAI‘I‘S with real pleasure the ar-
Prival of its hundreds of welcome guests for

the T wenty-Third National Recreation Con-
gress which will be held during the week of
October 3—7, 1938. The Local Arrangements
Committee, basing the estimate of attendance on
conferences to Pittsburgh, expects a gathering of
visitors which will surpass in numbers the Con-
gresses of past years. The city, because of its
central location and accessibility, attracts large
numbers of delegates. ‘

The impression of the casual visitor who passes
through the city by train or by automobile is not
a favorable one. Pittsburgh does not put its
best foot forward alongside the railroad tracks
or its automobile highways. One must visit its
residential sections, civic center, city and county
parks, and the innumerable vantage points along
the three rivers. The Local Arrangements Com-
mittee proposes that all visiting delegates be given
the opportunity to see this better side of Pitts-
burgh. Many tours have been planned during the
free afternoon sessions, the most important of
which will be held on Wednesday afternoon when
there will be a general tour of the city.

Leaving the William Penn Hotel in the early
afternoon, the automobiles will proceed along the
Boulevard of the Allies. This highway runs par-
allel to the Monongahela River and permits an
excellent view of the steel mills which make
Pittsburgh famous. River navigation can also be
observed. A drive of three miles brings one to
Schenley Park. Passing
through the park. on the
right one views the Car-
negie Institute of Technol—

ogy. To the left one locates
the Forbes Field, home of

the National League’s and tours which

Mr. SchroederI Superintendent of Recrea-
tion in Pittsburgh' who is serving as the
chairman of the Local Arrangements Com-
mittee for the I938 National Recreation
Congress. tells of the interesting trips
are

 

Honorable Cornelius D. ScullyI Mayor
of Pittsburgh. host city to the Twenty-
Third National Recreation Congress

“Pittsburgh Pirates.” Leaving the park, the visitor
Ends himself in the heart of the civic center, the
place of outstanding interest in the city. There
are located the University of Pittsburgh’s Ca-
thedral of Learning, a forty-one story structure
built to accommodate 12,000 students. The Heinz
Memorial Chapel, Mellon’s Institute of Industrial
Research, the Board of Education, Syria Mosque,
Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Memorial, Stephen C. F os-
ter Memorial, Pittsburgh Athletic Club, and other
important institutions surround the Cathedral of
Learning.

The tour will proceed along Bigelow Boulevard
and out to Highland Park, retUrning along Butler
Street, which parallels Allegheny River, passing
many mills, factories, refineries and shipping
wharves. At Fortieth Street a turn is made cross-
ing the W'ashington Bridge, and the tour con-
tinues through the North Side to the famous H.
J. Heinz food plant. Passing through the business
section, the tour reaches the Point Bridge. In-
stead of entering the Golden Triangle, we con-
tinue over the Point Bridge.
We are now at the conflu-
ence of the Allegheny and
Monongahela Rivers which
form the Ohio. One square
east is the old Block House
formerly known as Fort

357

being planned.

There will be
distinguished
speakers on
the program of
the Pittsburgh
Congress. We
present a few
of the out-
standing indi-
viduals who
will take part
in evening
meetings and
other general
sessions about
whom definite
announcement
can be made.
Other speak-
ers will be an-
nounced at a

later date.

 

‘-

"What Youth Wants" is the topic to be
discussed by Dr. George F. Zook. Presi-

dentI American Council on Education

Honorable Harold H. BurtonI Mayor of

Cleveland. will talk on "The Role of the
Layman in the Recreation Movement"

Pitt and Duquesne. The original Fort Pitt was

built in I 759.

The tour proceeds to M t. \Vashington, and an

increasingly impressive view
of the city is presented as
we climb one of the in—
numerable hills of Pitts-
burgh. This first visit for
many will lead to a second
or even a third. The tour
then returns to the starting
point.

Special tours will be ar—
ranged for those who are
interested in the free~time
activities of the public school
system. The Board of Ed«
ucation, during recent years,
has extended the use of its
gymnasia, swimming pools.
class rooms and athletic
tields to adults. It furnishes
a corps of men and women,
all trained in physical edu-
cation and recreation, to
direct the leisure time ac-
tivities. Those interested in
ll‘lwlt'l'n physical education

plants and recreation facilities, should profit by

these trips. Descriptive pamphlets will be dis-

Santord Bates. Executive Director of the
Boys Clubs of America. will speak on
"Recreation and the American Family”

 

tributed by the Department of Hygiene and Phy-

sical Education.

The University of ,Pitts—
burgh is arranging a special
tour for those inclined to
view the university aspects
of city life. The personally
conducted tour will begin
at three o’clock in the Ca-
thedral of Learning, then
proceed to the Stephen C.
Foster Memorial, next to
the Mellon Institute of In-
dustrial Research, then to
the Stadium, returning at
5:00 o’clock to the Com-
mons Room in the Cathe—
dral of Learning.

The Municipal Planning
Association plans a trip to
the North Side Commons,
Grand View Hill, and Chat—
ham Village. The latter is
one of the best of modern
housing developments in the
country.

(Continued on page 373)

Teachers and Recreation

ECREATION is not an escape
from the toil of educa-
tion but a vitalizing ele-

ment in the process of educa-
tion itself. Labor and leisure
are not to betreated as sepa—
rate departments of life. They
act and react on one another.
The efficiency of the worker is
obviously affected by the way
he spends his leisure time.

Teaching, with its intimate d
contact with children and its an
opportunities for service,
might well become the ideal life toward which the
privileged classes would aspire. The teacher has
ample time for recreation. But leisure, the great
advantage of the teaching profession, is largely
wasted because the teacher has no plan for it.

There are five rather obvious reasons for the
recreation of teachers: (I) that she may main-
tain her health; (2) that she may be Personally
attractive; (3) that she may continue to grow
mentally; (4) that she may be successful as a
teacher; (5) that she may enjoy life.

Health. \Ve have usually sought to guide into
teaching those with the highest academic standing.
In our training schools we have placed the em—
phasis upon methods and course in psychology,
but the teacher’s health and social qualities are
always among the largest elements innher success.

The most characteristic ailment of teachers is
“nerves.” Teachers are also peculiarly subject to
tuberculosis and the percentage afflicted is found
to increase at a rapid rate with their years of
service. Teachers are notorious for their negli—
gence of the elemental laws of health, so much so
that cartoonists long have pictured the pedagogue
as an emaciated neurotic. Disregard for proper
exercise contributes to the illness of teachers. A
study of teacher illness—“The Cause of Absences
Among Teachers”-——which appeared in Hygeia,
September 1931, revealed that sixty-three per
cent of those affected took no daily exercise.

‘ Personal Attractiveness. Apart from her clothes,
if a teacher is to be as attractive as she may
be, she must have perfect health. Exercise has
always been regarded as the rational cure for

By MARY W. ROACH, B. 8.
Elizabeth, New Jersey

Miss Roach. who writes that she has
been a reader of Recreation over a
period of years. has pointed out to
us the fact that she has failed to
find any space devoted to the recre-
ation of teachers.
undeniably right! This has been a tions, Many business men
neglected field. And so we are par-
ticularly glad to publish her opinions

suggestions on the subject.

over weight. Grace and beauty
of movement are brought
about by play and dancing,
while drudgery and overwork
produce awkwardness.

Growth. Teaching is a pro-
fession with a short working
day and week, with many holi-
Miss Roach is days and at least three vaca-
long for such a life of leisure
and freedom. The working
life of the teacher is short, the
age of retirement'being quite
low. School boards in many cities refuse to
employ any new teacher who is over forty-five
years of age. A life that calls for the retirement
of a teacher at fifty, has in some ways been un-
duly strenuous or injurious to her best growth
and development. It has been estimated that the
strain of one hour of teaching is equal to that
of two hours of study. This means we have the
equivalent of a ten-hour day, together with the
correction of papers and the preparation of
lessons.

The teacher, in order to grow, must continue
to study. But perhaps her greatest difficulty is
that her work tends to become routine and causes
no mental reaction. To avoid this, she should lay
it aside completely at frequent intervals through
some absorbing recreation, that she may come
back to it with a fresh point of view.

Success. It is necessary that the teacher be a
wholesome physical type. If we can get a real
love of the outdoors and its activities instilled into
the teaching force, we shall largely solve the prob-
lem of organized recreation and of outdoor ac-
tivities for both children and adults. A teacher
with an enthusiasm for outdoor life will be a
more wholesome example for children. She will
he more popular. Her health and vitality will be
a large element in her success in teaching.

Enioyment of Life. In a large way we do not
need any reasons for recreation. The teacher
should do these things which she loves to do be-
cause it is in such experiences that life itself finds
its fulfillment and satisfaction.

3‘59

360 TEACHERS AND RECREATION

"A master in the art of living
draws no sharp distinction be-
tween his work and his playI his
labor and his leisureI his mind and
his body' his education and his
Education which is
notalso recreation is incomplete. This is the most dESirable be-
Man the worker and man the
player are not two men. but one."

What Sort of Recreation Do
Teachers Need?

On the physical side, the
teacher needs relief from the bad
air of the schoolroom; from
standing still, and from nerve
strain of teaching discipline. To
overcome these effects, the teacher
should get out of doors at the close of school and
take some form of exercise in the open air. There
are many forms of exercise that may be taken
indoors, and these, unfortunately, are the forms
which teachers select.

The teacher’s problem is not entirely physical
fatigue. Teacher weariness, in the main, is fa-
tigue of the attention due to teaching and main-
taining discipline at the same time. She seldom
drops her school work when it is over. The first
condition of any successful recreation for her is
that it must be interesting enough to cause her to
forget school. If we wish to forget it, we should
get away from any place which has associations
with it, and it may be best to avoid the company
of other teachers. Recreation may not consist so
much in what we do or where we go as in our
frame of mind. Teachers are the most conserva-
tive of people. It is difficult for them to get new
points of view. The person who never takes any
recreation, who carries the thought of the day
over to the next, who thinks of her business in-
terests Sundays and holidays, seldom sees her
work from a new angle on which her larger
growth is so dependent.

College professors and high school teachers
seldom remain after school for their school work
in the same way that elementary teachers do.
However, all work which the teacher does then

could he done better and more quickly at some
other time.

recreation.

The Teacher’s Evenings

There are five main ac-
tivities which must find a
place in any normal pro—
gram for the teacher’s eve-
ning. They are: work.
study, reading, society and
play. The teacher who finds
her work hard and unpleas-
ant during the day should
devote more of her eve—
nings to play.

GolfI

Tennis,

A report which has been prepared by the
Educational Publicity Committee of the
Recreation TeachersI Association of New-
arl<. New Jersey' stresses the importance
of hobbies for teachers. Replies to a ques-
tionnaire showed the following recrea-
tional activities preferred by the‘teach-
ers in order of their frequency: Reading.
Swimming,

and Crafts. Music. Four-Wall HandballI
Stamp Collecting and Social Dancing.

The teacher as a rule does nor
have enough social life. How-
ever, the form of recreation
which seems best suited to the
teacheris,perhaps,traveL

cause of its educational and so-
cial value to herself. It gives a
breadth of view and an intimate
touch with life which can scarcely be secured in
any other way.

Neglected Opportunities

While teachers supposedly have more leisure
than most other workers, this leisure is seldom
utilized to advantage. The teacher has abundant
time to keep herself in perfect physical condition,
to grow strong and well, thereby becoming ef-
ficient. She has abundant time and opportunity to
continue education. There is no other profession
which offers possibilities so great for both ser-
vice and development as teaching at its best.

 

In Physical and H calth Education by Smith and
Coops, the authors have the following to say con-
cerning the health of the teacher. “Good mental
and physical health leads to vitality, energy, joy
and enthusiasm. 111 health leads to nervous dis—
orders, irritability, gloom and lack of interest.
These qualities, good and bad. are sensed by pu-
pils, who react accordingly. The teaching profes—
sion is no sinecure in which actual working hours
constitute the measuring stick of service. The
teacher’s point of view is reflected in pupil be—
havior constantly. This principle of pupil reac—
tion to attitudes may be subtle in its applica—
tion, but it is a vital part of the teaching proc-
ess. Teaching cannot be impersonal, consisting
merely of the treatment of subject matter. Any
good teacher is aware of his direct and indirect
influence upon the emotions and minds of his pu—
pils. This inevitable reaction should serve as a
continual challenge to the
teacher to keep his physi-
cal and mental health up to
the highest possible level.
Recreation according to in—
dividual taste is essential.
Golf, riding, tennis, swim-
ming, hiking, music, dra-
Ar+s matics and collecting of
various sorts provide fine
personal hobbies.”

FishingI

The Theater as a Community Center

A plea for less specialization in theater
buildings and their increased use as cen-

ters of communities' cultural interests

By

LEE SIMONSON

interested in the proposed Union addition

becaUse the problem it presented was not that
of building an isolated and specialized theater. I
have, for a number of years, maintained that the
specialized theater building was an essentially
wasteful and extravagant form of building. An
auditorium and a technically well equipped stage
always involve a comparatively large cubage and a
high building cost per cubic foot. But a theater
that is nothing more than a stage house and audi-
torium represents the maximum of expense and
the minimum of 11se-often as little as thirty-two
hours a week, even if used for a perfOrmance
every night and for two matinees. Whereas in
association with other units with relatively lower
building cost per cubic foot, the maintenance over-
head and running expense can be apportioned,
and its use as well as its social usefulness greatly
increased.

In an article on theater building originally pub-
lished in the Architectural Forum in 1932, I said,
in part:

“The demand for new theaters has not stopped ;
it comes from a new source: community centers,
universities, colleges, schools and high schools. . . .
Throughout the country a
theater will presently be as

A s THEATER consultant I,have been particularly

conventions, traveling or local art exhibitions.
Attendance may fluctuate from a few hundred to
a few thousand. . . . These theaters will be meet-
ing places for an entire community, social centers
where conversation between the acts with ac-
quaintances, colleagues or neighbors will be part
of the festiveness of an evening in the theater.

“Planning these new theaters is therefore an
architectural problem of the first order. The
standardized commercial theater plan, like the
standardized city apartment plan, could be done
from the top of an architect’s mind. Non-com-
mercial theaters, like the new housing develop—
ments, require maximum architectural imagina-
tion and resource.”

The unique value of the theater activities as in-
corporated in the present plan is that they are
part of such a social and cultural center, that they
do not exist in specialized isolation, but are part
of a building of which all the major portions are
capable of constant and multiple use. And this is
possible because of the plan for recreational ac-
tivities submitted by the Planning Committee of
the Union, and approved by the student body and
the various faculty departments of dance. radio,
music, drama and speech.

I therefore wish to call
attention again to the fact

necessary an adjunct to a
completely equipped school
or college as a science lab-
oratory or a gymnasium is
today.

“These theater buildings
cannot be wholly specialized.
They are the center of all a
community’s cultural inter-
ests and must be flexible
enough to be easily con—
verted for concerts,
choruses, moving pictures,
public lectures, regional

The Memorial Union at the University of
Wisconsin is a great house in which the
extra-curricular life of the college com-
munity is centered. It has substantially
changedI by its presence and program. the
design of college living and has started
new currents of social and cultural inter-
ests in the communities where students of
the past ten years now live. The building
is now to be enlarged, and one of the ad-
ditions will be a theater and arts section.
This is described in the January I938 is-
sue ot the Bulletin of the University by
Lee Simonson, who is serving as theater
consultant. Through the courtesy of the
Bulletin and of Mr. Simonson we are per-
mitted to present Mr. Simonson's article.

that the main auditorium is
not only a theater, but due
to its elevator forestage can
be easily and quickly con-
verted into a concert stage
for orchestra, choruses,
soloists, dance recitals, or a
lecture platform. The audi-
torium is easily reduced in
size to two~thirds or to one-
half of its total capacity to

fit the audiences expected.

(Continued on page 374)

361

You Asked for It!

Question: We have almost no money for game
supplies and equipment. Won’t you suggest some
games for which equipment may be devised at
little cost?

Answer: This problem was discussed by Harry
D. Edgren in an article in Camping M agazine
from which we quote.

Axle Quoifs. Procure a pair of old axle hous-
ings, preferably from a Ford, and cut the tube off
so that when sitting on their Hat ends they are
eighteen to twenty inches high. The grease and
dirt can be easily cleaned from them by sticking
a long poker through them and holding them in
. the furnace for a few minutes; the scale resulting
may be easily removed by a few sharp taps of a
hammer. Make four rubberquoits as follows:
Take a thirty-inch length of old garden hose, whit-
tle a small wooden plug that will fit snugly into
one end, draw the other end around, and fa'sten
by tacking through the rubber into the wood.
Tape the joint and the ring is ready.

Set the housings some distance apart and at-
tempt to toss the rings over them. Only ringers
count and topping the opponent’s ringer cancels
both. Singles and doubles may be played as in
horseshoe pitching. Five points make a good
game. A distance of eighteen feet is suggested
for adults which may be shortened to six or eight
feet for small children. If the stakes are kept
close enough together so that frequent ringers are
made, this proves to be a very acceptable game.

Ring Tennis. Make a quoit or ring six or eight
inches in diameter, using garden hose following
the instructions given for axle quoits, or make it
from heavy rope. Stretch a clothesline about five
feet from the floor and if possible mark out on the
floor a court on each side of the rope, according to
what space is available. If this is deemed unwise,
disregard boundaries and just play for errors.

The game is played by tossing the quoit back
and forth across the rope. Each player must catch
the quoit with one hand only without allowing it
to touch either his body or the floor. He must
return it immediately using aside—arm motion
only. Score by errors committed.

362

Tether Ball. Many ways have been used to set up
the pole for this game, but the following will be
found both usable and convenient. Get a section
of LIA-inch pipe thirteen feet long. Get another
section thirty—six inches long and just large
enough to slip over the longer pipe. Drive the
shorter piece into the ground so that it is finsh
with the surface and then insert the end of the
longer pipe into it. The pole should extend up
from the ground ten feet. If it is desirable to
dismantle the game temporarily, the longer pipe
may be simply lifted out. Using an old tennis
ball, cut very small slits on opposite sides of it,
then run the end of the rope leading from the top
of the pole through these slits by means of a
screw-driver and tie. A more effective way of at-
taching the ball is to use a leather thong run
through the slits as described, long enough to lead
away from the ball for about sixteen inches, the
end of which is attached to the rope. The leather
will not wear out as rapidly as the clothesline.
This is a good use for old tennis balls. The cord
from the ball to the top of the pole should be
seven and a half feet long.

It is advisable to mark off the playing area into
quadrants by means of two lines which intersect
at the base of the pole and extend about eight feet
in each direction. Players take their positions in
opposite quadrants and may not step beyond their
boundary lines. Play may thus be carried vigor-
ously without danger to either player. Such lines
are rather important for safety sake, particularly
if wooden paddles or tennis rackets are used.
Paint a line around the pole six feet from the
ground, above which the rope must be wound to
score. Further zest 'may be added by scoring one
point for the opponent each time the ball hits a
player on any part of his body except the fore-
arm or hand holding the racket. Five points should
then be allowed for winding the rope around the
pole above the line. Should the r0pe become
wound around the racket or arm of a player his
opponent is allowed a free swing at the ball when
tossed. I

WORLD AT PLAY

THE annual report of
the Bureau of Recrea-
tion of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, tells of
a number of sports clinics which have proved
popular. One of these was a water polo clinic, the
first hour of which was devoted to a theoretical
discussion of the various phases of water polo.
This was followed by a practical demonstration
by the Duquesne Dolphin Team. At the basket-
ball clinic held in December coaches and officials
from schools and colleges gave talks on the fol-
lowing subjects: Interpretation of Rules, Condi-
tioning of Players, Basketball (Past and Present),
Hints to High School Players, Offensive Play and
Defensive Play.

A Sports
Clinic

Community, the Jour-
nal of Social Service,
published in England,
reports that commu-
nity centers have been started in a variety of
buildings from a £20,000 community hall on one
end to a farmhouse, council house or cottage on
the other. “The palm of novelty,” states an article
in the May-June, 1938 issue, “must go to Coven—
try where a community center has been started in
the old barn in Farm Close, Keresley. The barn,
so the local legend runs, was the headquarters of
a band of brigands and sheep stealers. Under the
center beam of its sloping roof Edward Broome
was hanged, and his ghost continued to° haunt the
vicinity for many days.” Today—three hundred
years later—in this same barn another band was
formed of voluntary enthusiasts pledged to col-
lect by more peaceful methods the sum of £500
toward the cost of erecting a community center
to meet the growing needs of the district.

Three Hundred
Years Later

THE Recreation De—
partment of Waco,
Texas, is conducting a
series of broadcasts,
using talent from the playgrounds and from the
city at large. In addition to vocal and instrumental
selections, one-act plays and talks on recreation
are given. There is no cost involved for the Rec—
reation Department which is given fifteen minutes
of time every Tuesday evening.

Broadcasting
in Waco

MORE than seventy

arts and crafts classes
representing sixty rec-
reation centers con-
tributed to the gigantic display of articles placed
on exhibit at the main office of the Detroit, Michi—
gan, Recreation Department in May. Demonstra—
tion classes were conducted with the exhibit _to
permit visitors to see the many forms of hand-
craft as they are taught in the recreation classes.
Various women’s organizations, such as the Fed—
eration of Women’s Clubs and the Parent-Teacher
Association, served as hostesses at the exhibit.

Arts and Crafts
Exhibit

_—-——

THE city fathers of
Jefferson, Iowa, are
justly proud of their
new swimming pool
opened last summer. To meet their share of the
cost of $30,000 the city officials floated a bond is-
sue of approximately $9,000. The WPA supplied
the cost of labor and $6,000 worth of materials.
The dimensions of the pool are 75x120 feet, with
a bath house of tile and brick construction 22x88
feet. One end of the bath house contains the puri-
fication and hltration plant. The shallow end of
the pool has a depth of three feet with a slope to
the deep end where the depth is eleven feet. The
attractive bath house contains all modern fixtures
and appliances. Instead of baskets the city has in—
stalled partitioned canvas bags for storing cloth-
ing. A six-foot wide concrete walk surrounds the
pool. A part of the money raised was used for
landscaping the area about the pool.

Modern Swimming
Pool Opened

 

THE community cen-
ter boards of Cincin-
nati, Ohio, decided this
year to change the
method of choosing board members. In the past
the board members have been elected by the
community at large. This resulted in the election
of the best known persons, who might or might
not make the best workers. Often the elected
members never attended the meetings or they
were indifferent to the success of the center. This
year the active board members requested this de-
partment to appoint a board of directors from
among those members of the community who had

363

Community Centers
in Cincinnati

 

364 WORLD AT PLAY

 

HOW TO ORGANIZE ;
AND PROMOTE 6 =
HORS€SHOE CLUB I

  
     

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

 

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.
shown their interest in the work of the centers
and who would be sure to support the program.

 

Flint’s Civic Orchestra—From February 28
to March 8, 1938, Flint, Michigan, enjoyed its
seventh consecutive season of civic Opera under
the auspices of the Flint Community Music As-
sociation which has made possible a number of
local music groups, including the two major music
organizations, the Flint Symphony Orchestra and
the Flint Choral Union. The season’s repertoire
of the civic opera included “Aida,” Verdi ; “Caval-
leria Rusticana,” Mascagni ; “Pagliacci,” Leonca-
vallo; “Il Trbvatore,” Verdi. All of the parts,were
sung in English.

A Play Writing Tournament—The North-
ern California Drama Association, sponsored by
the San Francisco Recreation Commission, is
conducting a play writing tournament which will
close September 30, 1938. It is the hope of the
association that it will be {well represented by plays
of merit at the Golden Gate Exposition to be held
in 1939, and it therefore urges wide participation
in the contest. All plays submitted must be

original, not adaptations, and not previously pro-
duced. Each contestant may submit as many as
two full length plays or three one—act plays. The
playing time of the one-act plays must be not
shorter than fifteen minutes nor longer than
forty. All manuscripts must be typed double
spaced on one side of 8V2x11 paper, with stage
directions underlined or typed in red. All plays
must be entered under a pen name, and each
manuscript should be accompanied by a sealed en—
velope with the title of the play and the author’s
pen name written on the outside. The author’s
own name, complete address and the title of the
play must be sealed in the envelope.

Further information may be secured from Hes-
ter Proctor, executive secretary, 2435 Sacramento
Street, San Francisco, California.

One Year Old—The Playground Recreation
Board of Forest Park, Illinois, presents a very at-
tractive 1937 Yearly Report. Its cover page is
done in water colors. The purpose of the Depart-
ment is clearly stated. A minimum report of im-
provements is given and a detailed outline of in-
teresting and some unusual activities. Forest
Park is to be congratulated on this excellent rec-
ord of facts, figures, interest and achievements
that have been accomplished in its Department of
Recreation. The report is especially commendable
because it is the statement of the first year’s ac-
tivities with a trained, year-round director and
staff.

For Girls and Women—The Department of
Recreation of Ann Arbor, Michigan, is sponsoring
a program of activities for girls and young women
this summer. Classes have been organized in ten-
nis, horseback riding, golf, archery and hosteling.
GrOUp instruction in riding is being given for a
fee of 50 cents a lesson. Instruction is being of-
fered in swimming, golf and archery at a small fee.

Junior Fire Fighter Clubs—A few years ago
a city fireman and a newspaper man, Park Roberts
and Clyde Mason, organized the first club of the
Junior Fire Fighter Clubs of America, Inc., a
movement that has grown to such an extent that
there are now clubs in five states, and interna-
tional interest. Organized as an educational ad—
venture for boys and girls to eventally reduce the
tremendous loss each year through fire and false
fire alarms, the program incorporates splendid op-
portunities for recreation. Organizing clubs in

WORLD AT PLAY

elementary schools with the cooperation of fire-
men, the movement has become an institution in
Akron, with two full time firemen-teachers teach-
ing a regular curriculum to both boys and girls.
The summer of 1937 saw such clubs being or-
ganiZed on typical playgrounds, so that this fine
educational program might continue on a year-
round basis. The outdoor club meetings offer op-
portunities for demonstrations that are not practi-
cal during the in-school classes.

Summer Reading—Summer book stations
for the circulation of children’s literatUre during
the vacation period was organized by the \V. K.
Kellogg Foundation in the seven counties of its
Michigan Community Health Project Area. Some
14,000 books were distributed among the forty-
two stations established in homes, stores, filling
stations and libraries in villages and rural centers.
One station was located in an automobile trailer
which became a library on wheels.

Marimba Band on Good Will Tour—The
Marimba Band is a colorful organization com-
posed of ten finished musicians from Guatemala
on a good will tour of the United States. In El
Paso, Texas, several thousand people enjoyed the
two open-air concerts and applauded the band for
many encores. The first concert was given dur-
ing the noon hour in the San Jacinto Plaza and

the evening performance was held in the beauti-
fulHill-top Gardens of Memorial Park.

Toledo Broadens Its Recreation Program—
The 1937 report of the Division of Parks and
Recreation of Toledo, Ohio, tells of an encourag-
ing growth in the city’s recreation program. More
than fifty play areas were established in 1937,
strategically located. One of the most important
phases of the Division’s program was adminis-
tered through the Knot-Hole Gang, a baseball-
minded group of boys numbering more than
40,000, the membership embracing schools. or-
phanages. hospitals, crippled and deaf and dumb
schools in Toledo and its surrounding areas.
Baseball schools and tournaments, movie parties,
toy gift parties and other leisure-time activities
were provided the gang. In addition, members
were admitted free to all home baseball games of
the Toledo Baseball Club three nights a week.

A Bond Issue in Wilkes-Barre — \Vilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, is using a $400,000 bond is-

365

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY 573., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

sue passed by the city for the development of new
projects and the completion and improvement of
the existing play areas. The development will re-
sult in two large outdoor swimming pools, which
will give the city a total of three, four wading
pools, new tennis courts, and the beautification
and grading of park recreation areas.

Dance Concerts—In Akron, Ohio, the Depart-
ment of Recreation, in conjunction with the
Times-Press and the Browne Dancing Studio, is

' presenting a series of dance concerts to the pub-

lic in the outdoor theater at \Vaters Park each
Sunday night for six weeks. Programs include
ballet, tap and acrobatic dance groups and local
native groups in costume.

From Stone Quarry to Tennis Courts— An
interesting project in Oakland, California, has
been the conversion of a rock quarry. the gift to
the city of former Mayor John L. Davie, into a
modern tennis playing area of five acres. In ad-
dition. a caretaker’s house has been provided.
Rubble rock retaining walls have been built, and

366 WORLD AT PLAY

    
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

bags, belts, bracelets,
clips, necklaces, etc., are
easy to make at home.
We furnish complete 32
page booklet of instruc-
tions and patterns, best ‘ v 3,
quality beads and sup- #3:;

plies. It’s fascinating cournmif

and inex ensive too!
I‘- _ _F.’_ _ _v_ _ 37 w. 37m ST. - new YOR. N.Y.
~98 I

D Send FREE literature describing 5, WALCO Beodcrohs.
I [:1 I enclose 10c for 32 page WALCO Wood Beod Booklet of simplified I

I instructions ond designs. oIso ocluol Wood Beod soniples. I
I ' I
NAME ............................................................. ..

I
I ADDRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I
’ CITY .................................. ..STATE .................... . . - ‘

 

trees, shrubs and flowers planted on the high
banks. The courts have been planned by the
Board of Playground Directors purely for indi-
vidual use and are available on the registration
system. See page 322 for illustration.

An All—City Club Rally—In May the De-
partment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Edu-
cation of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, held an all—city
club rally at one of the social centers. Attendance
was limited to club members whose groups have
been in existence at least one and a half years.
Sixty—four such clubs were given charters by

Dorothy C. Enderis, director of the department.‘

The granting of these charters is another step in
advance in the development of club work in Mil—
waukee since the receipt of a charter signifies that
the group has high standards in integrity and
achievement.

Shuffleboard in Pomona—ShufHeboard was
first introduced to Pomona, California, at the ini-
tiation of their Recreation Department in 1935.
When the building was set up at Washington Park

as a community center, two courts were included'

but nothing was done to popularize this particular
game until December, 1937. A few people played
the game but little interest was shown. Having so
many people at the center with nothing to do, a
league was made up consisting of six teams With
eight persons to a team. This league ran for three
weeks, and each individual player’s score was fig-
ured, as in baseball. That is, each player received
one point for winning a game or he lost one point
for losing a game. At the end of the three weeks’
period a new league was set up consisting of ten
teams and covering a period of eight weeks. So

much interest has been created in this activity that
a demand for two more ‘courts has been made and
these will be supplied at once. A trophy will be
presented to the winning team who will be able
to keep it only on the condition that it is the win—
ner of three leagues in succession. The women
are also becoming interested in this game, and a
women’s league is being organized.

The Pomona Recreation Department sponsors
many major games, but none have created so much
interest in so short a time as shuffleboard.

The Children’s Garden in Fargo—Children in
Fargo, North Dakota, will have a chance to be
small—scale farmers this summer, for the Fargo
Garden Society, aided by the Park Board, WPA
Recreation Department and schools, is sponsoring
a junior garden project. Children from the fourth
grade up through high school may sign 11p through
newspaper entry blanks and need only parental
consent and fifteen cents for seeds. Youngsters
having back yards will plant at home in eight by
sixteen foot plots, while those from apartment
houses or with no yards will be assigned plots 125
feet square in two large Park Board areas, one on
the north side and one on the south side of the
city. It is recommended that each child plant his
garden in six rows sixteen inches apart and that a
third of the space be devoted to flowers and the
rest to vegetables. Suggested crops include rad-
ishes, carrots, lettuce, tomatoes, beans, beets, zin—
nias, marigold, larkspur and nasturtiums. Chil—
dren lacking tools will be able to borrow them
free of charge. At the end of the summer the
gardeners will submit their best results for prizes
in a Junior Section of the Garden Society’s fall
flower and vegetable show.

A College Hobby Show— Typical of the
growing interest in hobbies in colleges and other
educational institutions was the hobby show at
Columbia University, New York City, on April
11th, 12th and 13th. Among the exhibits were
papier—maché masks, photography and clay masks.
Stage settings designed for the productions of the
Columbia Theater Associates were also on exhibit.

Nebraska Youth Versus Nebraska Society— -

In connection with the annual meeting of the
Nebraska Council of Churches and the Ministers’
Convocation of the state, a trial of Youth versus
Society was held on January 9th at Omaha. The
purpose was to fix attention upon the responsi—

‘_‘

IVORLD AT PLAY 362

bility of society for the youth of today and the
ways in which society is failing to serve the needs
of youth. Three judges from the Supreme Court
of the state presided, and the governor of the
state was foreman of a special jury to decide the
issue. Four prominent attorneys represented the
prosecution and the defense.

American Education Week—The National
Education Association, the United States Office
of Education, and the American Legion, are again
uniting to promote an American Education Week
program in 1938. The general theme will be
“Education for Tomorrow’s America.”

The following program is suggested: Sunday,
November 6, Achieving the Golden Rule; Mon—
day, November 7, Developing Strong Bodies and
Able Minds; Tuesday. November 8, Mastering
Skills and Knowledge; Wednesday, November 9,
Attaining Values and Standards; Thursday, No-
vember IO, Accepting New Civic Responsibilities;
Friday, November II, Holding Fast to Our Ideals
of Freedom; Saturday, November 12, Gaining
Security for All.

Amateur Photographic Contests in Chicago
——The Recreation Division of the Chicago Park
District sponsors an annual photographic contest
open to all amateurs. Entries in the competition
are limited to pictures taken in parks, on boule—
vards or beaches under the jurisdiction of the
Park District. The second annual photo contest
exhibit, which was held at_ the Stevens Hotel,
closed on November Ist. The Park District spon-
sors a number of camera clubs throughout the city
which make it possible for photography enthusi-
asts to exchange ideas and discuss new methods.
These clubs are furnished with the necessary
equipment for developing, printing, enlarging and
doing other technical photographic work-.

Joint Planning Conference—The Joint Con-
ference of Planning, sponsored by the American
City Planning Institute, the American Planning
and Civic Association and the American Society
of Planning Officials, was held in Minneapolis
on June 20—22. This year the plan was follow-
ed of having ten or twelve round tables on (lif-
ferent subjects with a committee appointed to
prepare a report for each of the subjects which
i will be the basis of discussion. On the final day
of the conference a summary of the round tables
was given at a final joint session. Among the

 

The Greatest Need of Our Times

is character education and citizen-

ship training on a Christian level.

The magazine, CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP is devoted to the problems and inter-
ests of all Whose daily task it is to mold
character and to educate the citizens'for

these times.

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP is now the
organ of THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON EDU-
CATION FOR CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP a
nonprofit organization directed by a board
of nationally known educators and lay-
men. The value and interest of the maga-
zine will be greatly increased by this re-
lationship with a national movement.
CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP will become
a Clearing house for all character and citi-

zenship-building agencies.

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP changes
with the September issue from fifty-two
pages to a sixty-eight page magazine. It
comes to you ten times a year for $2.00,

or five subscriptions sent in one order for

$1.50 each.

Send your orders to:

The National Council on Education

for Character and Citizenship
5732 Harper Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

368 THE PROFESSIONAL IN RECREATION

We Apologize to Seattle!

On page 243 of the July issue of RECREATION
there appears the photograph of a recreation
building incorrectly credited to Memphis, Ten-
nessee. The building shows the Green Lake Field
House constructed and operated by the Seattle,
Washington, Park Department.

 

 

subjects discussed were State Planning; County
Planning, the Integration of State and National
Planning, and Planning Education in the United

States.

The Professional in Recreation and

His Responsibility for Personality

Development
(Continued from page 324)
ence and are unable to do those things Which
most children of their age have been doing for
years, such as throwing a ball, running, jumping,
batting, playing various games, wrestling. A
child cannot be sent into a group to learn such
fundamental skills; he will be called a “sissy” and

be scared out of further attempts. Such a child
must be given the same sort of individual tutor—
ing which might be given to a child who had
missed certain of the fundamental processes in
arithmetic.

The professional in recreation will know enough
of problem children and of the treatment of prob-
lem children to be able to cooperate with child
guidance clinics or with social workers who are
also interested in the treatment of the individual
child. The recreation worker will accept summa-
ries of clinic studies and from those summaries
work out the recreation program which is neces-
sary for the particular child. Certainly every child
guidance clinic should have available the services
of a professional in recreation to take the respon—
sibility of working out such recreation pr0grams.
Few problem children can be helped through the
clinic without improvement in. their recreation
programs, and a great deal more needs to be done
than is being done now.

Responsibility for Community Education

It would seem that the recreation worker has
some responsibility for educating his community

 

YOU CAN OWN A

_-. a
v. I  I J I
'I :"‘4 h

“PORTABLE

Wm, TOUCH CONTRO

Yes you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash

or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY. See your

Royal Portable dealer or mail coupon today
for complete, up-to-the-minute information.

    

- ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. RNR 938

2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

VIRGINIA’S BETTER MOUSETRAP 369

to an understanding of the importance of recrea-
tion in the personality development of the child
and of the adult. Too few parents realize that a
good recreation program is absolutely essential in
child training and that such a program would help
them with many of the difficulties which they are
experiencing in child training.

The same thing is true of the public schools.
Education has a primary interest in personality
development, and school officials must realize
more than they do now that adequate recreation
is an utterly essential part of real education. Rec-
reation workers must help teachers to understand
this problem so that cooperation between the “two
professional groups will be markedly improved.
A teacher is not doing a good job of educating
along progressive lines unless he is regularly rec—
ognizing the personality needs of his pupils and
confers with professionals in recreation, as well as
with the parent, in the working out of a desirable
participation in recreation.

Virginia's Better Mousetrap
(Continued from page 326) ‘

The hearty response on the part of the popu-
lace has indicated several things. Twenty-six
thousand people drove from twelve to sixteen
miles to a new recreational areaa-when public
bathing ponds operated by private concerns were
within a mile or two of their homes. Church
groups which had been traveling ninety miles by
train to the Virginia seashore for their annual
picnics are now motoring sixteen to the Swift
Creek Recreational Area, because, as they say, it
is cooler, cleaner and closer—an indication, per—
haps, that recreation begins at home, and while
distant pastures are sometimes greenest, home
pastures are sometimes cleanest! The rigid po-
licing of the area by the National Park Service
insures that.

All profits made by the Recreational Council, if
any, are to be used, under terms of its constitu—
tion, to purchase additional playground equip-
ment and services. The profits are ploughed back
into the enterprise. While it is a voluntary, non-
salaried job, each Council member feels that he is
doing something for his locality and for his State.

Industrial groups are finding this area “just
what the doctor ordered.” In this industrial sec-
tion of Virginia, many shift workers who have
idle time on their hands during the day are com-
ing in greater and greater numbers. For here is

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worlier

   

          

MAGAZINES

Games Digest, July 1938
Magic Shadows—Instructions for Shadowgraphs

Leisure, July 1938
Chessmen’s Holiday, by F. K. Perkins
Little Wings, by Ralph Severin
The Job of Recreation, by W. L. Stone
Lawn and Beach Games, by Sid G. Hedges

Parks and Recreation, June 1938

Landscape Development of National F
by Harold L. Curtiss Crest Roads:

Recreation — The Municipality’s Opportunit fOr
Character Building, by Dr. Frank S. Lloyd y
Recreation Forces Organizing, by V. K. Brown

National Parent-Teacher, June-July 1938
The Changing Family in a Changing \Vorld,
by Dr. Paul Popenoe

American Forests, July 1938
Boulder Dam—Power and Play, by John C. Page

PAMPHLETS

Recreation Centers for Young Children
A manual of activities published by Recreation De-
partment, Board of Education, Newark, N. J.

Leisure-Time Leadership, WPA Recreation Projects

A study of program and participation. \VPA,
\Vashington, D. C.

Toy Loan Centers
Los Angeles County, California

Youth in the World of Today, prepared in cooperation
with American Youth Commission of the American
Council on Education. Public Affairs Pamphlet,

No. 22. 8 West 40th Street, New York City. $.10.

Summer_ (fictivities and Independence Day Celebration
Actiyities Bulletin Series, No. 8. Chicago Park
District

Problems of a Changing Population
Report of the Committee on Population Problems to

the National Resources Committee, Government
Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

A Brief School Guide
Boarding Schools, Day and Country Day Schools,
Junior Colleges and Schools for Specialized Train-
ing, by Porter Sargent, Boston, Mass. $.25.

Recreation Facilities for Brooklyn (New York)
Prepared under the Supervision of Division of In-
formation and Inquiry, Department of Welfare

Softball or Gun, by Lieutenant John D. Leonard
Reprint from December 1937 Parks and Recreation

Minimum Sanitary Requirements for Swimming Pools

and Bathing Places, 'with Additional Information and

Suggestions in Design, Construction and Operation.
Department of Public Health, State of Illinois

Housing the Metropolis .
Progress Report of the Citizen’s Housmg Council of
New York, 470 Fourth Avenue, New York

National Park Service Bulletins _
Zion and Boyce Canyon Parks, Utah, and Yosemite

Park, California

370 PREPARE FOR RETIREMENT

P

Patriots’ DayFProgram of the Annual Joint Celebra-
tion by Eight Massachusetts Cities and Towns
Prepared by the Patriots’ Day Committee, Boston

Tips to Volunteers . .
Phillips Brooks House Assoc1ation, Boston

The Hobbyist, 1938
Published annually by the Hobby League of the
Playground and Recreation Association, Phlla-

delphia

Artificial Light and Its Application I
W'estinghouse Electric and Manufacturing (30.,

Bloomfield, N. J.

Organized One-Day, Week-End and Vacation Hiking Trips
The Hiking Trips Bureau, Ho—ho-kus, N. J.

 

something that the public wants. The land is no
good for anything except what it is———a public
playground. The public realizes that here the
Government has made for them the kind of rec—
reational area they want, and they are beating a
well—worn path to the door.

Prepare for Retirement
(Continued from page 329)

vocation. He should not feel as though he is go-
ing to engage in something that is distasteful or
that some person is trying to force him to do
something against his will. Sometimes a hobby
that seems at first to have little promise as an in-
terestng avocation later surprises its followers
and reveals unusual possibilities.

Usually each person is in a better position to
select hobbies for himself than any person else
can be. It has been suggested that it would be
well to include in this article a list of hobbies that
might stimulate the thinking of persons interested
in the selection of avocations. Space prohibits an
attempt to include an exhaustive list of such ac-
tivities because they are so numerous. Some of
those that may interest readers are as follows:
Archery, astronomy, athletics, bees, boating, bowl—
ing, camping, carpentry, cabinet making, carving
-soap, wood—, checkers, chess, chickens, collect-
ing—antiques, arrowheads and other Indian relics,
autographs, books, butterflies, coins, college and
university insignia, etchings, match box tops,
samplers, sea shells, and stamps—, crocheting,
embroidery, fishing, gardening, geography, geol-
ogy, golf, jig-saw, mental contests, metal work,
modeling—wclay, wax—, molding, music, paper
folding, pets, photography, pitching horseshoes,
pottery, puzzles, quoits, quilting, reading, sculp—
ture, shuffleboard, sketching, speaking, swimming,
travel, typewriting, walking, wood turning, and
wr1t1ng.

Public Recreation ‘in Cleveland
(Continued from page 338)

be consumed in continuing the salary increases
instituted during the middle of 1937. The largest
increase in the 1938 budget is the amount appro-
priated for the maintenance of the city’s play-
grounds and recreational facilities outside the
parks. The salary of a supervisor of Men’s and
Boys’ Activities has also been added. Other items
in the budget are, for the most part, similar to the
appropriations for 1937.

During the past two years the daily rate for
play leaders and playground directors has been
raised fifty cents. Playground supervisors have
also obtained small increases. In addition, the
Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner have
been granted larger pay. The situation of the
bathhouse and community center employes has
been slightly battered.

The effects of the broader program inaugurated
have already manifested themselves in a tremend-
ous increase in attendance at playgrounds'and
community centers. When additional money is
provided for the Division, the programs will be
expanded further to meet more adequately the
needs and desires of the community, and there
will result a larger attendance and participation.
But until that time the city may be justly proud
of the creditable expansion and extension during
the past two years of its community center and
playground programs, all of which has been done
with limited personnel and under severe financial
handicaps. .

"More Games, Please!"
(Continued from page 344)

amimponawomeialgra

Once the sentence is made up and prepared for
circulation by removing the key letter, a copy may
be given to every player, with some sort of prize
to the One who first finds the missing letter. If
every member of the party has made up a sen-
tence, the players may be paired and exchange
sentences so that each has a different sentence to
work on.

Playing Card Quiz. How do you play cards?
How observant are you and your fellow players?
Here is an interesting list of questions for your
party. Try them on your guests.

I. What King shows his profile?

2. What King has no moustache?
3. What King holds a battle axe?

 

A RURAL COMMUNITY TAKES TO SINGING 371

What King wears ermine?

What King holds no sword?

\Vhat King has a daisy belt buckle?

What King’s heard is not parted?

What Queen holds her flower between her

first and second fingers?

9. What Queen wears a breast pin?

0. What Queen shows her hair next her face
on one side?

II. What Queen has a long belt buckle?

12. \V hat Queen has bands of Grecian keys?

13. What Queen has a sceptre?

14. What Jack wears a leaf in his cap?

15. What Jack shows his full face?

16. What Jack holds a leaf to his lips?

-I7. What jacks carry battle axes?

18. W7 hat Jack carries a staff?

19. \Vhat Jack has no moustache?

20. What Jack has two rows of curls?

2I. What Jack wears buttons on his coat?

995‘ 9“.“ 'i"

Correct answers to these questions may be

found by examining a deck of playing cards.
(Bicycle Brand.)

At the National Conference on

State Parks
(Continued from page 349)

tures controlled access with no right of light,
air, or access on the part of the abutting prop-
erty owners. This plan eliminates undesirable
roadside development, he pointed out, illustra—
ting this feature by the Norris Freeway.
Major William A. Welch, superintendent of
Palisades Interstate Park, presided over the
afternoon portion of the last day’s session.
Entertainment provided by the Tennessee
Conservation Department included Cherokee
Indian Tribal dances, music by a mountaineer
orchestra, and folk dances. The conference
ended with a trip through Great Smoky Moun-
tain National Park, North Carolina and Ten-
nessee, and a luncheon session at .which the
park and plans concerning it Were discussed
by Major Ross Eakin, superintendent, and
Colonel David C. Chapman of the Great Smoky
Mountains Conservation Association.

A Rural Community Takes to Singing
(Continued from page 352)
member of the group who had heard the tune over

the radio and wanted to learn to sing it. The
leader explained the meaning of the title, and
after they had tried it and were resting she told
them of the street singers in Italy and their sere-
nading, and other tales of life there. “Have you
really been over that big water?” they asked.

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME Say, *.
////-

l4|7 ' 80th. Ave.

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

  
   
  
    
      
  

MALABLE CAST IRON - WHITE PLATED

/

 
 

ONE SET CONSISTS OF 4 PUSH CUES and Will
6 DISC ( 3 A‘s and 3 5'5) ouuasi}
PRICE $I2.°° per set , Delivered 2 or 3

cunvm mom GIVES Wooden sets

POSITIVE CONTROL IN

SHOOTING THE DISC.

bRASS PIVOT. (URVED BACK FOR

  

PATEN‘PI’R
Auo Mien.

HAS.H.WILSON Oakland,Calif.

“Tell us some more of those Italian stories. Do
you know more songs?” She sang them street
songs in Italian and they beamed. It sounded a
little queer to them; they like the tune, but not
the words.

But it was quite apparent that a change had
come over the group. The friendly chatter and
warmth had not been there before. A new rela-
tionship with the leader existed. \Nhen she went
after the meeting to the gasoline station to wait
for the car to take her home, a dozen men and
boys came along too and begged her to tell them
more about Italy and even about Wilmington——
almost as far away to many of them.

The next week fifty persons were in the group.
The men learned the bass of “Oh Mary, Don’t
You Weep.” Over and over they practiced their
part, but on trying it with the group found them-
selves going back again each time to the melody.
They kept at it, however, until they had learned it
and could carry their part independently. That
same night the group learned how to tell when the
music should be soft and when it should be loud.
Then back to all their old favorites they went to
try out these new “tricks.” At the end several
members asked to take home the music to try
over before the next time. One child asked to
take home the music, so she could “learn it to pa
and ma at night before bedtime. Might even get
the words so’s we could do it without the piece of
paper.”

iy the end of the session the group had grown
to sixty. There was no more of the blasting tone.
They could hear each other in part singing. Even
a bit of sight reading was taUght from the black-
board. The radio programs took on new mean-
ing. Families sang together in the evening. One
woman went all the way to Wilmington to hear
her first concert. A certain amount of feeling for

THE punnos: or
PLACING THE. DISC
ON swarms LINE.

372 A BASKETBALL SPORTS COUNCIL

Swimming Pool Data and
Reference Annual

(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming poolsin any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checksI money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

people of other lands had grown from the sing-
ing of folk-songs. But most worthwhile of all
was the growth in friendliness and expansiveness.
At the last meeting they voted to continue their
“singin’ ” neitt year and proposed, moreover, to
find out whether there was any way the state could
let them “go on for a longer spell right now!”
The leader watched them set out for home
over bumpy dirt roads, swinging their lanterns to
light the way. “ ’Night, Joe—goin’ to storm ’fore
mornin’.” “Good—night—ladies ——.” “Careful
’bout those hens—cold night tonight.” “Mer—ri
—1y we roll a—long—, roll a—long,— roll a—
long.” “Bring the baby over—I’ll tend her while

you market.” “O’er—the—deep—b1ue———sea.”

A Basketball Sports Council

(Continued from page 354)
Article VII—Officers

The following officers shall be elected from the
membership of the Board of Governors: Chair-
man, Vice-Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer.
The officers shall be elected at the annual meeting
on the fourth Tuesday of September.

 

 

REE

Junior Arts and Activities

Triumph of Teamwork

Mutual cooperation has made JUNIOR ARTS 6: ACTIVITIES the
helpful and successful magazine it is today . . . a triumph of
team work!

INTENSELY PRACTICAL! Brimful of IDEAS. plans. activity and
source material created by experienced educators through col-
laboration of teachers on the firing line.

CONTAINS CREATIVE PROJECT MATERIAL. needed to meet the
requirements of present day methods of teaching. and will cor-
relate with regular class studies. It appeals to children and
instills greater interest in school work. saves your time and
energy in research. duplicating. etc.

CONTAINS editorials. ideas and articles by teachers. book re-
views. complete units oi work. pictorial maps. social studies.
dioramas. book covers. crafts. posters. health and safety proi-
ects. patterns to cut. color and construct. etc.

NEW 0 o o  o u u  o o o 

You will find IUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES a REAL HELP in
your work. Size. 9x12 inches. full page illustrations. Every issue
contains material for primary. intermediate and upper grades.

G0 FORWARD WITH JUNIOR ARTS 5 ACTIVITIES

10 Big Numbers Only $2.00!
No Money Now . . . Pay Later

Order today . . . when the big September issue arrives. ex-
amine it carefully page by page. If you are not entirely satis-
fied you may cancel your subscription by notifying us within 10
days. YOU BE THE JUDGE! Could any proposition be fairer?

 

i. REPRINTS 0F A

W
SPELgLING GAME PAGE
F01: YOUB ENTIRE CLASS

ACT NOW!—

before the supply is exhausted. So many teachers ordered
prints of this page which recently appeared in JUNIOR ARTS 6:
ACTIVITIES that we printed a large quantity for distribution.
We will send you as many as you need for your entire class.
All we ask is that you enclose 1°C to cover cost of mailing
and handling up to 20 reprints—5c more for each additional
10 reprints desired. SEND FOR YOURS NOW!

—
EMAIL COUPON TODA Y

IUNIOR ARTS 6: ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please send .............................................. ..reprints of Spelling page.
I enclose .............................................. ..for postage and handling.

Enter my subscription for Iunior Arts & Activities for
Ell year. at $2.00 I] 3 years. at $4.00 (You save $2.00)
If I am not satisfied I will concel my subscription within 10
days after receipt of September issue. Otherwise I will
remit by October 5th.

 "Iu:u.annou-uuu"nonun-oou-n".un-n-u-uuoonouonon-sunny". uu-u-I-ou- “union on o - ----- IO-Oooonu

Street or   

City  .. .  State..............--__

PAINLESS ADULT EDUCATION 373

Article VIII—Meetmgs

(Section 1) Meetings will be held regularly on
the fourth Tuesday of each month at 8 :30 P. M.

(Section 2) Special meetings may be called by
the Chairman.

(Section 3) The annual meeting shall be held
on the fourth Tuesday of September.

(Section 4) A quorum shall consist of half or
more of the Board of Governors. A quorum shall
be necessary to transact business at any meeting.

Article I X—Amendments

The Constitution may be . amended by two-
thirds vote of the Board of Governors at any reg—
ular meeting providing each member of the Board
of Governors ‘shall have been notified of the
amendment in writing at least seven days prior to
the meeting.

Painless Adult Education

(Continued from page 356)

scope—two lenses in a cardboard tube. This is
set up in the school yard for a practical demon-
stration after the lecture. Astronomy appears to
be a fitting subject for study with country dwel-
lers who have the best possible opportunities for
observation and who feel the sky overhead un-
blocked by tall buildings and smoke clouds as in
cities.

The financing of the project is rather elemen-
tary. The township school board donates the use
of the school with heat and light. One of the class
tends the stove. A registration fee of twenty-five
cents is charged and a fee of five cents a night is
collected. Our instructors practically donate their
services as we can only pay them what amounts
to their traveling expenses. But as registration
increases this Will, we hope, be increased.

In the old days in New England they had the
Lyceum where lectures on cultural subjects were
given. We have the same need today in spite of
the movies, the radio and the automobile. We
want to meet together with our neighbors and
learn something new. It is called adult educa-
tion but it comes from the same cultural urge the
old New Englanders had. And it is the concern
with educators and recreation workers.

Pittsburgh Awaits the Recreation

Congress
(Continued from page 358)

A tour for those especially interested in the

city parks has been arranged by Ralph E. Gris-
wold, Superintendent of the Bureau of Parks.“
The intinerary is based on an exhibition of recreap
tion activities unique with Pittsburgh Parks. The
first stop will be at Schenley Park. The delegates
will see Phipps Conservatory, the largest in the
world, the outdoor theater on Flagstaff Hill, and
the newly—constructed quarter-mile cinder path
with its 220 yards straightaway on Schenley Oval.
The second stop will be at Frick Park, well known
for its Nature Museum, bowling green and trails.
The third place to be visited will be Highland
Park, where two of the city’s largest outdoor
swimming pools are located, and the Zoo, famous
for its bear dens and reservoirs, is to be found.
Arsenal Park comes next in order. Here are ten—
nis courts and playing fields, as well as an out-
door theater. The trip to the parks terminates
with a visit to Riverview Park where are located
the Observatory, the Trailside Museum, and the
Wissahickon Nature Cabin. At the latter place
will be shown moving pictures of park activities
and nature recreation. A typical talk on the lat-
ter subject, as used in the public schools, will be

For Story Tellers

 

ry Peptide

A'}

l

 

“Story Parade is a godsend to the directors on
our IWO-hundred-plus playgrounds because it con-
tains such fine telling stories. As you know, not all
good reading stories are tellable.”

DESSA M. FUL'rz, Director of Storytelling
Los Angeles City School Playgrounds

Special Offer to Recreation Readers
[0 back issues. $|.00

Regular subscription—$2.00 a year

Send to
STORY PARADE .. 70 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

374 THE THEATER AS A COMMUNITY CENTER

given by the Naturalist. The parks mentioned
are only five of Pittsburgh’s twenty-four parks
covering 1,857 acres.

Ben E. Giifen, Director of Recreation for the
Allegheny County Parks, has made extensive
plans for visitors to visit two outstanding County
Parks—North Park and South Park. These two
areas have recreation facilities that every delegate
should see. North Park has the largest outdoor
swimming pool in the state, 315 feet long and 200
feet wide. South Park has two large outdoor
pools. Both parks have dozens of shelter houses
and picnic grounds. Camps have recently been
constructed which may be used by organizations
for a full week. Space does not permit one to
describe the numerous recreation facilities in the
county parks. One must see to appreciate.

Those who are interested in the many fine set-
tlement houses will have the chance of seeing pro-
grams of activities at the Irene Kaufmann Settle-
ment, the Kingsley House, Brashear Settlement,
the Manchester Educational Center, Soho Com-
munity House and others.

The recreational centers of the Bureau of Rec-
reation, such as the Washington Center, Leslie
Center, which were outstanding places several
years ago, will be visited by those interested in
such facilities. Visits will also be paid to the
numerous playgrounds, outdoor swimming pools,
and other recreational centers.

In addition to the facilities cited, which should
have a professional interest to the delegates, there
will be opportunities for sight-seeing which may,
with certain reservations, be termed unparalleled.
These include the open hearth furnace ; the modern
steel mills recently erected which remain unsur-
passed; Heinz’s Food Establishment, the largest
of its kind; the Pittsburgh Plate Glass plant and
the Westinghouse Electrical plant in East Pitts-
burgh. These are only a few of Pittsburgh in*
dustrial units that are offered. There are enough
other outstanding industries to suit the tastes
of all.

Some believe that the best time to view Pitts-

burgh is at night. A quick trip to Mt. VVashing-
ton, only ten minutes by automobile from the
William Penn Hotel, after the evening sessions,
will present a never-to-be-forgotten sight. This
still remains the favorite show-off spot of native
Pittsburghers.

At the time of writing this article an attraction
of special interest looms up. The Pirates look
like potential pennant winners of the National

League. Should the baseball team be fortunate in
winning the coveted championship flag, then the.
games of the World Series will be held during
the week of the Congress. It was during the
Congress in Chicago, 1935, that the baseball fans
among the delegates had the opportunity of see-
ing some of the games. Such an opportunity
might present itself again in Pittsburgh.

Those interested in golf will be glad to learn
that golf courses abound in Allegheny County.
Pittsburgh has a municipal 18-hole Course in
Schenley Park, just 3.5 miles from the William
Penn Hotel, headquarters for the Congress.

That we are going to have a splendidly at-
tended Congress seems to be a foregone conclu-
sion. Pittsburgh is accessible. Two-thirds of the
population of the United States and one-half the
population of Canada can reach Pittsburgh over-
night by train. The real story of Pittsburgh has
not been told in print. One must see for himself
to appreciate this Wonder City.

The Theater as a Community Center
(Continued from page 361)

The corridors are not only ample enough to be
social centers during the entr’acte but can be used
also as supplementary art galleries, rehearsal
rooms, or informal meeting rooms. The smaller
laboratory theater is not only a theater particularly
suited for experimental work in the coordination
of body and speech and experimental setting and
lighting; it is also a small lecture hall—badly
needed by the Union, is as well designed for ex-
perimental movie projection and radio rehearsal
and broadcasting.

Thus in addition to its other facilities, from
bowling to ping pong, and the varied craft facili-
ties in the upstairs workrooms from photography
to metal work, the proposed building will be a
center of life, alive from top to bottom almost
every hour of the day and night.

It is precisely this which makes this proposed
addition valuable. Its completion should be epoch
making from the point of view of the creative use
of leisure on the University campUS, and make
not only the Wisconsin Union but the University
a leader in the field. For this reason the pro-
posed building, once in use, should prove a genu-
ine stimulus to the development of the arts in the
university world and demonstrate, as few theater
buildings have done up to now, how all the arts
can be housed so that they can be an integral and
vital part of American life.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Index to Puppetry

Compiled under the supervision of Alwin N ikolais, Hart-
ford Park Department, Hartford, Connecticut $.50.

HE DIRECTOR of the Hartford Parks Marionette Thea-

ter, WPA Recreation Division of the Hartford Park
Department for some time has been directing the re-
search work of a number of individuals who have listed
and classified magazine articles published between 1910
and 1938 on the subject of puppetry. The result of their
research is a sixty page bibliography which will be of in-
terest to puppetry enthusiasts, of whom there are more
every day. Copies are available through the Hartford
Park Department at 50 cents each.

Outposts of the Public School

By Watson Dickerman. American Association for Adult
Education, New York. $.75.

" HE ADULT SCHOOL, as I see it. is not an institution

but a spirit, a new leaven working within the pub-
lic evening school.” Thus the author introduces his study
of evening schools which are experimenting with ven-
tures in informal adult education. Mr. Dickerman has
made no attempt to make a scientific analysis of the pro-
grams with which he came in contact and the result, to
use his own words, “is more of a sketch than a photo-
graph,” and it is characterized to a large degree by per-
sonal impression and opinion. This perhaps is the reason
why we End the book so interesting. Mr. Dickerman
takes us to visit some old friends—the Milwaukee social
centers, the centers of Washington, Boston and other
cities whose programs are familiar to recreation workers.
\Vith him we visit communities whose centers are de-
voted more to formal education than to recreation.

“Lights are bright in many a schoolhouse these nights.
and there is a zest in the air that was absent from the

night school you and I knew.”

Graded Lessons in Fundamentals of
Physical Education—A Program
for Grades One to Six

By Gertrude M. Baker, Florence M. Warnock and Grace
D. Christensen. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $3.00.

ACONTRIBUTION to the planning of sound curriculum
procedure is offered in this volume in which the

authors have outlined a steady progression of fundamen—
tals from grade to grade. The subject matter covers

lesson plans for grades one to six.

Entertainment Bulletins

Good Housekeeping Bulletin Service, 57th Street at
Eighth Avenue, New York. Each $.10.

THROUGH the Good Housekeeping Bulletin Service may

be secured a number of attractive bulletins on enter-
tainments. such as Inexpensive Parties for Old and
Young,'. JlIoney flicking Entertainments for Churches,
Schools and Clubs; Patriotic Party; Through Seven
Circles of Hades and Other Hallowe’en Parties; and
Singing Games for Good Times, with words and music.
A list of the bulletins may be secured on request.

Public Administration Organizations—
A Directory |938-l939

Public Administration Clearing HouSe, 1313 East 60th
Street, Chicago, Illinois. $1.50.

THIS, THE FOURTH biennial edition of the directory of
voluntary organizations working in the general field

of public administration or allied helds, has been com-

piled for the use of these organizations themselves, of

public oHicials and of students of government. Informa-

tion is given regarding each of the organizations listed.

Technological Trends and National
Policy

By National Resources Committee, United States Gov-

ernment Printing Ofiice, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

HE NATIONAL RESOURCES BOARD was appointed in

1934 “to prepare and present to the President a pro-
gram and plan of procedure dealing with the physical,
social, governmental and economic aspects of public
policies for the development and use of land, water, and
other nation-a1 resources and such related subjects.” This
Board appointed a committee of nine distinguished scient-
ists, designated by the National Academy of Sciences,
the American Council on Education, and the Social
Science Research Council. The first report of this com-
mittee, Technological Trends, is the lirst major attempt to
show the kinds of new inventions which may affect living
and working conditions in America in the next ten to
twenty-live years. It indicates some of the problems
which the adoption and use of these inventions will in-
evitably bring in their train, and emphasizes the impor-
tance of national efforts to bring about prompt adjust-
ment to these changing situations, with the least possible
social suffering and loss. Some suggestions of national
policy directed to this end are sketched. The book is
fascinating reading from a technological or sociological
standpoint, and will merit the most careful study.

Technology and Planning is a small pamphlet which
reviews much of the material presented in the former
volume, with special relations to inventions as they affect
industry, travel, agriculture, new markets, and forestry
techniques. This may be secured for ten cents.

375

376 NEl/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

inexpensive Books for Boys and Girls.
Compiled by the Book Evaluation Committee of the

Section for Library 'Work with Children of the ‘

American Library Association. American Library
Association, Chicago, Ill. $.50. ‘“

The selection Of titles—890 in all—which appear in'the'
second edition of this useful pamphlet covers a wide
range of subjects asked for by children. N on—fiction and
the standard fiction titles predominate; no book over
$1.00 is included. Entries are listed under the author’s
name and the publisher and price are given. Of unusual
value is the part which analyzes and briefly evaluates the
more important publishers’ series.

Church Group Activities for Young Married People.

By George Gleason. Published by the author, 715
South Hope Street, Los Angeles, California. $1.00.

The social climate Of southern California seems espe—.

cially congenial to the development of church groups for
young married people. 222 such groups, located in 173
churches, ranging in membership from 70 to 4,528, and in
towns and cities ranging in pOpulation from 200 to
1,250,000, form the basis, Of this study. The [book de-
scribes how these groups originated out of spontaneous
demand, the‘ motives that dominated them, the nature of
their programs, the educational procedure in the groups,
and the place of the groups in the church structure. A
desire for friendship and sympathy, an opportunity to
serve, and a common desire to know more about early
trainingfor marriage and home life are the basic moti-
vations of the groups, The weaknesses and failures Of
these groups are described as well as their successes. The
educational contents and methods are emphasized more
than the social and recreational values. The book should
be very helpful to those who are responsible for the
leadership of young people in churches.

Associated 'Country Wbmen of the~ World”,

Proceedings of the Third Triennial Conference. De—
partment of State "Publication No. 1092. Govern-
ment Printing OfEce, Washington, D. C. 3550.

Over 6,000 country women from twenty—two nations
gathered in WashingtOn from May 31 to June 11, 1936
to discuss ways of improving country home and com-
munity life—how they could best contribute to the larger
phases of social, economic and civic needs. Their discus-
sions included art in rural life, drama, folk dancing, folk
singing, handicrafts, library service, imotion pictures,
music, radio, etc. The summary of discussion groups
contains contributions from‘ peoplei-in different parts of
the world describing their activities in,.music, drama and
art called the “open window’,’ in the farmhouse.

a”

Everyday First Aid.

By \Valter ,Frank Cobb,,M.D. D. Appleton-Century
Company, New York City. $1.50.

In compiling this book, the author has adopted a novel
scheme which provides workable solutions to “many emer-
gency first aid problems. Each chapter begins wit-h a
newspaper account of an accident. Thus the stage is set
for the amateur first-aider. Then the author, using the
situation outlined in the story, discusses the various steps
of first aid in that particular case under the following
heads: Analysis Of the Situation, F irst. Aid, Subsequent
History, and Comment.

American History Through Fiction.

By D. S. Otis and Jacques Ozanne. Service Bureau
for Adult Education, New York University, New
York. $.50.

No. 3 of the “Retading and Study for Pleasure and
Profit” series suggests a novel study plan for individuals
and groups. Nine novels chosen because of their literary
merit and historical integrity form the basis Of the study
to illustrate the four general periods in the history of our

country—the American Revolution; the Struggle for De-
mocracy; a Preface to the Civil War; and the Civil War
and Reconstruction. The nine books selected do not give
a complete story of any of these interesting periods, but
they do contribute largely to the individual’s under-
standing of the life and times, of the kinds of people and
why certain historical events occurred.

Science Book List for Boys and Girls.

Prepared and published by the Section for Library
Work with Children of the American Library As-

sociation.

This series of fourteen leaflets has been provided to
supply sources of information in the form Of brief, well-
selected bibliographies on science for lbOyS and girls from
six to fifteen. The books listed all Offer “satisfying anti
exciting adventures into the delights of the natural
world.” A complete set Of the lists may be securedifor
35 cents by writing Miss Elsa Clark, Enoch Pratt Free
Library, Baltimore, Maryland.

Better Bridge.

By Samuel Fry, Jr. Leisure League of America, 30
Rockefeller Plaza, New YOrk City. $.25.

If you are one of the peOple who find recreation and
relaxation in bridge playing and, according to Mr. Fry,
contract bridge is played at least to some extent by about
one out of every two a Its in ,America this booklet will
make a strong appeal?" r. Fry states as his purpose in
writing the book “to promulgate the fullest enjOyment of
the game with the fewest possible disasters which may
cause bickering and squabbles.”

 

 

Officers and Directors Of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-Pres:dent
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F.-GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. ‘- .
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. I.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS, T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CiIARLEs D.. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT L‘ASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, WOOdbury, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTn, Washington, D. C.
,r J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. YVARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D.” C.

Ir.‘

