Schooling for Youth in the Light
of Adult Education

0ST moderns, sickening and dr00ping in the absence of any skill to
exercise any creative use of their native resourcefulness, have no

idea What the matter is. Their education must know how to make the issue
clear to them, must know how to bring home to them the fact that from the
Stone Age on what has given lasting savor to any human life that has had
any savor has been for the most part the possession and use of one or
several creative skills rather than many possessions, or much and re-
peated fallings in love; and that even men who labor with their hands,
and far more the many that set down black marks on white paper in the
infinite record of commercial operations, are deprived by the machine of
the consciousness of exercising creative skill—a consciousness as literally
necessary for human health as material food. No matter how well he is
paid in cash to make an apparently useless gesture over and over, a man’s
spirit sickens if he has not in his life some daily effort that produces
visibly useful or beautiful results. If he cannot get from his daily work
the satisfaction in the exercise‘ of skill which he needs, he must get it
elsewhcrc—and by an accurate miracle, now, at the exact time when the
machine takes away his pleasure in skill in his work, the machine gives
him time to learn and to exercise other skills—free time undreamed of
by his forefathers. As the machine pushes man out of the older creative
life, enforced upon him by tangible necessity, and slams the door behind
him, it opens before him another door into a new world, vastly larger,
vastly richer, but in which the motive power is no longer necessity, the
instinct for self-preservation—but his own will, wish, and choice. The

quality of the choice hc makes, thercfore, is of absolute first importance to

him, and to society.

DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER.

Extract from address given at the 'l'wenty-tirst Annual Meeting of the American Council on
Education as published in The Educational Record, July 1938.

 

AUGUST, l938

 

265

I.‘
1
t
7.
r
. C
1‘)
.
k
v...
I
’11-
1r.
{run-
a
t
....
J
. .u
III-O
m
.V.
,5
L
soul
.
Al:
N
0
.
C

 

Trends in Public Recreation

HERE ARE certain basic in-
Tstincts or drives in human

life that are enduring and
permanent. Upon some of these drives the prin-
ciples of recreation are based. The outward man-
ner of expressing these drives may vary with
changing external factors, but the basic urges re-
main the same. Man has always sought to express
himself through music and rhythm, imitation and
acting, making things with his hands, and in count-
less physical activities. New cultural or racial in-
fluences may change the form of music and the
nature of rhythmic expression; economic influ—
ences may retard or develop the progress of vari-
ous forms of recreational expression; the growth
of new social ideals, health emphases, or educa-
tional ideas may change old forms of expression
and create new ones.

These changed expressions of recreational inter—
est continue for shorter or longer periods of time.
\Vhen they continue for some time in certain di-
rections—~—-forward, upward or downward—they
indicate trends;

The National Recreation Association has ex—
ceptional opportunities to observe those trends in
recreation throughdut the country. It conducts a
correspondence service with nearly 6,000 com—
munities each year. Its field workers make peri—
odic visits to 700 cities annually. By surveys and
research and a constant review of the materials
prepared by other organizations and individUals
it is continuously informed of developments in the
recreation field.

These studies and

By E. C. WORMAN

National Recreation Association

others express the judgment of

workers of long experience in
the field.

Areas and Facilities

The provision of areas and facilities for public
recreation has increased steadily over a period of
years. Growth in park acreage has been rapid.
Except for a slight decline in the period 1930—33
playgrounds have an unbroken upward curve since
1912. The growth of indoor centers was, on the
whole, consistent from the same date. Swimming
pools more than trebled in number from 1918 to
1930. In flfteen years, 1915-1930, the number of
recreation buildings increased four-fold. Other
facilities have shown similar growth prior to the
depression period. .

With the coming of the depression and the re-
lease of emergency funds the provision of all
kinds of areas and facilities was given a new im-
petus. Local, state and Federal agencies have
taken advantage of the labor supply created by
the WPA, NYA, PVVA, CCC and other emer-
gency organizations to expand park areas and to
construct numerous recreation facilities. The rate
of increase of Federal, state, county and munici-
pal parks has been more rapid and the provision
of facilities for hiking, camping, picnicking, water
and winter sports and nature activities has been
greatly increased in these park areas. Children’s
playgrounds, neighborhood playgrounds, athletic
fields, tennis courts, golf courses, swimming pools,
wading pools and bath-
ing beaches have been

observations over a per-
iod of more than thirty
years reveal trends,
some of long standing
and others of more re-
cent development.
This statement at—
tempts a brief summary
of the major trends in
recreation during recent
years, including the de—
pression period. Some
trends are indicated by
graphs based on statis—
tical records, while

"The movement by the American public toward more
adequate recreation facilities is one of the significant
trends of modern times. . . . The rank and file of the
people are insisting upon the right to participate in
amusements and sports which traditionally belonged
only to the favored few. Directly or indirectly the
movement touches various aspects of the modern
scene. Its compelling influence has brought about
significant adjustments in government, industry,
businessI education and religion. Municipal, county.
state and federal governments are now assuming
responsibility for the establishment and maintenance
of public recreation facilities. . . . The modern
recreational movement is so firmly entrenched
in American life and its positive social results so
decidedly outweigh its negative that it is no
longer difficult to justify the increasing finan-
cial outlays."——From Recent Social Trends, I933.

constructed in great
numbers. As far as
areas and facilities are
concerned, the public
recreation m o v e 1n en t
has been set forward at
least ten years by the
use of available emer-
gency labor supply.
The influence of the
Federal Government in
the field of housing has
resulted in increased
provisiOn in new hous—
ing units of indoor and

267

268
14
Legend:
One unit on vertical scale
15 equals 100 Communities
2,500 Paid Leaders
2,000 Centers under leadership
12 $3,333,333.33
__________ Communities
11 Paid Leaders
- - - - - Centers under Leadership
_. .. __ Expenditures
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
Communi£5
ties

P 'd
Leaders 2

Centers

Expendi-
urea

1909
1912
1915
1918
1921
1924
1927

Growth of Community Recreation Movement l909-I937

outdoor facilities for recreation.

There has been a definite increase in the use of
school facilities for recreation and other come
munity activities, due, primarily, to availability of
Federal emergency workers. Expenditure of
local school funds for community use of school
buildings has not materially increased in recent
years. I

The rapid increase of facilities without adequate
local appropriations for maintenance is creating a
problem in financing which is yet to be solved.

Program

There has been a steady increase in the extent

to which older youth and adults have used public
facilities. ‘

    

1930

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

There is a marked
increase in the number
of cities providing a
broad range of activi~
ties. The number of
cities has steadily in-
creased which provide
for such activities as
arts and crafts, drama
and music. In arts and
crafts, a signiiicant in—
crease has been in the
number of cities pro—
viding recreational art
opportunities for
adults.

In the held of
drama, puppets, mar-
ionettes and the drama
festival have shown
rapid increase. Fed—
eral projects for the
employment of recre—
ation leaders have
given special emphasis
to dramatics, music,
and arts and crafts.

Vocal music, par—
ticularly in the held of
choral singing, has
shown a more rapid
advance than instru-
mental music.

Outdoor activities,
such as hiking, pic—
nicking, nature activi—
ties and Winter sports
are on the increase. Federal and state parks offer
the services of naturalists and nature guides to
assist the public in the enjoyment of nature. The
day camp idea has made gains. The interest in
winter sports, developed through the promotion
work of railroads, Chambers of Commerce, and
state and regional bureaus and councils, has grown
rapidly in recent years.

The provision by public agencies of recreation
service to institutions caring for various types of
mentally and physically handicapped individuals
is increasing at an appreciable rate.

Because of the Federal emphasis on play activii
ties of pre—school children in many communities,
a’ trend in this direction seems to be developing.

The past decade has seen a revival of interest

Communi-'
ties

gd.Lead.
expend.

1933
1936
1937

1935

No. of 0 100 200
acres

(In thousands)

Growth in Park Acreage I925-I935

in square dances and in folk
dancing. With the shift of
emphasis from Americani-
zation of the foreign-born
to a recognition of their cul—
tural contributions, the folk
arts of many nationalities
are being appreciativer rec-
ognized through exhibits,
demonstrations and festi-
vals.

The activities of the de-
pression period have helped
to bring to the attention of
the country generally the
need for recreation in the
rural areas, a need which
until recent years has not
always been accepted by in-
dividuals or groups with
urban backgrounds. This in-
creasing understanding of
the rural problem and the
desire of the rural people
themselves for adequate
recreation expression, cou—
pled with the comparatively
meager economic resources
of rural areas, present un-
usually difficult problems of
leadership and finances.

The public attention
given to youth and its spe-
cial problems, particularly
the problem arising from
the gap between the time
when many youths leave
school and the time when
they can get employment,

    

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION 269

has resulted in special attention to the recreational
needs of the adolescent. This in turn has resulted
in increased attention to the provision for co-
recreation with as much reliance as possible on
self-leadership.

Personnel

Recreation as a profession is'now well estab-
lished. The number of men and women who have
entered the work and the standards of qualifica-
tions rose steadily until the depression. From
1917 to 1932 the total number of recreation lead—

Growth in Recreation Areas and Facilities l9l2-l937

 

(a
 a 95 2 a a 3}: ‘é a :3
__ ._ number 04 pkrgms ........_-.. ........ : mambo: 
cur-u- duh-- ‘u' (“Ith  ceam —“_"—” — : Mn“. 6‘  
—-———= Mubcrafm‘km."g  .....o.oooouo-o:mmb<|’:of  

270

Tunggum
Lax;

—-‘—-—-

'17 79 3'? 20'21'27. 2321253 2729 2930 '31 32333913!“ 1*}

Recrea’rion Leaders Paid From Regular Funds

paid from regular
funds rose from approxi-
mately 3,000 to 25,500,
or an eight-fold in-
crease in 15 years. These
gains in numbers and
standards have not been
as rapid as could have
been desired, and much
progress has yet. to be
made.

ers

KEY
1 = 1,000 units

of men

_ _ _— No.

Total No.

The number of women
consistently exceeded the
number of men until 1931
when the order was re-
versed. Men are now con-
siderably ahead in num-
bers. In several brief per-
iods when numbers drop-
ped off, women were re-
leased a year in advance
of men.

The full time year round
workers showed only ‘

small variation in total
numbers.

 

No. of women

 

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

During the depression leadership paid from
regular funds dropped seriously over a period of
three years (1932, 1933, 1934). From 1933 the
personnel "forces of municipalities were greatly
supplemented by the addition of workers paid
from emergency funds. This created difficult
problems .of supervision and training. While
many of these workers Proved unsuited to rec-
reation leadership, others made a real contr.bu-
tion. To a limited extent some of the more able
\VPA recreation leaders are being taken into
permanent positions in recreation departments.

Perhaps the most hopeful trend in personnel
thinking has been the growing emphasis on ade-
quate preparation for recreation work and the
necessity for raising Standards of leadership:

Volunteer Service

There has been a considerable fluctuation in the
curve showing the extent of volunteer service, but
a net steady increase until 1933 when there was a
heavy loss, probably because emergency workers
were made available for the tasks formerly done
by volunteers. From 1923 to 1937 there was a

Volum‘eer Service in Recreaiion Agencies l923-l937

No
separate
raccrus

'28 ‘29 '30 '31 '34 '35 '36 '37

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION ' 271

KEY

--__¢_ 30.0? cities reporting
- - - - - - - — — No.0f playgrounds
.... Ho.of year-round r‘
playgrounds /

/
r—F‘K
\

/ V/

 

13 uv 1: as as 1; 29 3. 9: up u: 3? 3: 3‘

Playgrounds for White and Mixed Groups

net gain of 5,626 volunteer workers. A sharp up-
turn in 1937 is noted. Women volunteers who
were in the majority until in the midst of the de-
pression now hold a minority pos'tion.

Training
The increased public appreciation of the value
of recreation and the many agencies actively in-
terested in it, have created an interest on the part
of training institutions in the development of
training opportunities for professional recrea-
tional workers.

In response to this growing interest, the Na-
tional Recreation Association conducted a gradu-
ate training school in New York City'from 1925
to 1935. Graduates of this school now occupy
many leading recreation positions in the country.
In 1935 this School was suspended to conduct a
series of four week institutes for employed rec-
reation leaders in large cities. These courses have
been and are attended by leaders employed in
private agencies and in VVPA and NYA as well
as by municipal recreation leaders. Several thou-
sand persons have received instruction at these
institutes in all of.the larger cities of the United
States. Some sixty thousand individuals have at-
tended rural institutes conducted by the Associa-
tion under the auspices of the Extension Service

 

Harlan?

No.of cities reporting I
- - - - - - - No.0f playgrounds I
......... No.0? year-round” I
playgrounds I
I
I

[20

   

'13 ‘w'zr '16 7.7 ‘19 ‘21 '30 3: '31. 93 94! '3: 36 37°

For Colored People

of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Large numbers of VOIUnteer and paid leaders an-
nually attend courses conducted by municipal rec-
reation departments. Representatives of many
chUrches 2nd private organizations participate in
these courses. -.,,_I .i‘” ‘

Many colleges have established courSes for the
training of leaders in community -' recreation.
Most of the training, however,'is in connection
with physical education departments. and many
do not cover the wide range of training now de-
manded by recreation departments. Armovement
is under way, however, to correct this situation, by
having colleges set up a unit recreation course by
correlating the offerings of many départments,
such as Music, Art, Dramatics, Physical Educa-
tion and others. Educators and social leaders are
emphasizing the necessity of having the public

schools train students for leisure.

,
d "L

The education of appointing authorities to the
importance of selecting trained personnel and pro-
viding salaries adequate to attract competent au-
thorities is a growing necessity.

Recreation for Colored People

Provision of more adequate recreation for col-
ored people has shown marked gains during the
past fifteen years. Playgrounds for white and

272 TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

mixed groups have shown almost unbroken gains.
The number of playgrounds for colored people
has grown still more rapidly. This number in-
creased from 135 in 1924 to 632 in 1937, a clear
indication that certain parts of the South are
meeting a long felt need.

Financing Municipal Recreation

Expenditures for municipal recreation increas-
ed steadily from 1909 to 1931. The decade 1922-
1931 showed the most rapid development. Then
followed three years of heavy losses due to the
depression. Early in 1934 cities began to rebuild
budgets that were curtailed during the lean years.
In spite of difficulties which municipal and school
authorities have had in securing taxation for local
governmental expenditures, the curve of expendi-
ture has risen steadily. Referendum votes in a
number of large and small cities showed the will-
ingness of the public to provide increased financial
support ‘for good programs. Cities with separate
tax levies have suffered less than others. How-
ever, the average per capita expenditure for rec-
reation service even. in cities having year-round
departments is still much below standard.

On the other hand, the Federal Government’s
expenditures for recreation have been enormously
increased and those Federal expenditures for local
governmental recreation have been so great that
together, even with the reduced local expendi-
tures, they provide for more public funds than
have ever before been available for local govern-
ment recreation work. Federal funds have been
made available through approval of projects for
construction of facilities, for the development of
areas and for supplementary leadership. Leader-
ship has been provided, not through cash appro-
priation to the locality but through the assign-

ment of unemployed workers paid directly by the
Federal Government. The Federal Government
has also provided leadership and developed fa—
cilities in communities which had previously had
no local tax supported community recreation
work. This is particularly true in smaller com-
munities and rural areas.

The amounts expended from regular funds and
from emergency funds in 1937 are indicated in
the following table:

Expended from
Regular Emergency
F mid: Funds

Land, Buildings, Perma-
nent Improvements .. . .  3,403,191.54 $ 7,975.252.32

Upkeep, Supplies, Inciden-
tals (not including wages) 3,783,555.03

For Leadership . . . . . . . . .. 7,469,427.76 8,686,805.31
For All Other Services... 5,546,421.93 . . . . . . . . ..
Total Expenditures . . . . ..$25,794,537.85 $22,139.243.36*

 

*This figure does not include expenditures for “other services
and upkeep, supplies, etc.”

Sources of Park Funds

The following table which compares sources of
park funds of 1930 with 1935 shows some inter-
esting contrasts. In 1930, in 524 cities 39% of
the total funds came from city appropriations.
Five years later 717 cities indicated that 68% of
the total funds came from that source. Bond is-
sues dropped from 28% of the total in 1930 to
2% of the total in 1935.

Fees and charges produced 5% of the total in
158 cities in 1930, and the same per cent of the
total was produced in 228 cities in 1935. Nearly
two and one-half million dollars was received
from fees and charges in 228 cities. More cities
reported receiving money from fees and charges
for the use of park facilities than from any other
source except city appropriations, which were re-
ported in 717 cities.

A COMPARISON OF SOURCES OF PARK FUNDSI I930 AND I935. BY TYPE OF SOURCE

mm
W

 

Number of Percentage of
cities Amount _, total
TyPe of source _—_______ _________
1930 1935 1930 t 1935 . '1930 1935
City appropriation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524 717 $38,246,010.40 $0,770,778.33 39 68

Specml tax levy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 123 154 15,080,181.18 6,455,865.29 15 14

Bond issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 72 36 27,315,75245 1,019,499.48 28 2

Assessments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 18 538,138.54 126,882.11 0.5 . . . . . . . .

Donations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 55 548,210.16 272,011.87 0.5 0.5

SpeCJal _funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 94 3,300,471.57 1,599,562.59 3 3

Concessmns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146 166 2,225,644.82 1,016,617.43 2 2

Fees and charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 158 228 4,866,692.63 2,409,000.62 5 5

Sale of property, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 42 33 108,936.42 55,873.44 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 117 6,094,571.41 1,291,084.79 6 2 ‘1

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647 998 98,324,60958 45,017,17595 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

 

Bond Issues for Parks
Bond issues during the decade 1925—1935 are
shown in the following table. Perhaps this re—

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION 273
pression. In the period 1926—1930, I48 cities re-
ported issues of $153,000,000, while in 1931-1935
only 78 cities reported issues amounting to

 

 

veals one of the most noticeable effects of the de- $18,193,940.
BOND ISSUES FOR PARKS VOTED l926-30 AND I931-35, INCLUSIVE, BY POPULATION GROUPS

1926-30 1931-35 

Population group (1930 census) Number Number .

of cities Amount of cities Amount ,7

1,000,000 and over .......................... .. 5 $102,913,266.00 1 82,150,01700 ?
500,000 to 1,000,000 .......................... .. 3 8,865,240.83 1 1,400,000.00
250,000 to 500,000 ........................... .. 14 14,479,85000 7 8,390,044.00
100,000 to 250,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24 12,700,358.11 8 2,722,039.37
50,000 to 100,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22 5,564,367.93 4 483,000.00
25,000 to 50,000 ............................. .. 23 2,543,513.75 11 1,088,380.00
10,000 to 25,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30 3,566,125.00 20 1,130,600.00
5,000 to 10,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. 27 2,628,900.00 16 640,500.00
2,500 to 5,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 189,300.00
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148 153,261,621.62 78 18,193,940.37

\

Expenditures for Private and Commercial
Recreationi '
The American people appear to be Spending a
large and rapidly increasing proportion of the na-
tional income for recreation. This trend has been
under way for twenty-Five years. Commercialized
recreation seems to be the dominant use of lei—

estimated costs of recreation travel by automo-
bile.) The tota_l expenditures for recreation are
computed to have been a little over a billion
dollars in 1909 and more than 4.3 billions in 1935.
In 1935 we spent for recreation more than the
Federal Government did for recovery and relief,
and more than the Treasury collected from all tax

sure, but gains have been , sources.**
made in recent years in Four Main Expenditures—Cities
those types 0f leisure time Reporting Regular Service Legislation

 
 
 

activities which involve par- #11193on: The general trend of
ticipation. it” legislation during the last

111 1909 recreation prod— two decades has been to-
ucts, services and vacation :1 ward enlarging the powers

travel consumed 3.8% of the
national income.*

In 1935 recreation prod- ,0
ucts, services and vacation
travel consumed 8.1% of
the national income.* 3

These expenditures in-
clude such products as
sporting goods, radio sets
arid musical instruments;
' such services as motion pic- I
tures and sporting events;
and vacation travel expense.
Travel expenses have been 3
about as large as expendi—

 

of local government to pro-
vide recreational areas and
facilities, to conduct ser-
vices and to increase finan4
cial support for public rec-
reation Works.

Federal Government
Activities

The influence of the Fed-
eral Government in the field
of public recreation in re-
cent years has been an ex-
panding one. Five perma-
nent agencies of the gov-

; ernment are direct]1 c n-
tures for other products . .i O
. . - cerned w1th recreanon and
and serV1ces combmed and , (C I
. . 0 I .
have 111creasedlmore stead1- ‘ "t "Md 0” page 310)

 

ly and rapidly during the 0 1m 1m "Jr
period studied. (Ordinary
expenditures for automo-
biles are not included, only

 

19:1

CLEI

—'—-—- LAN28011-Dmes,'?znnbuevr Eewmgm
upretr, 307m 1:5,: Armour" 1.;

............ .. SALARJJ‘H WAGMFQRLEAD‘KSHH'
———— OTHER serum-Es pany Business Bulletin” for

 

  
   

* Harvard Business Review, “Eco-
nomic Aspects of Recreation,”

Julius Weinberger, Summer,
1937, Table VI, p. 459.

1433 my 1933’ use 4'37

** From “The Cleveland Trust Com-

October 15, 1937.

’CHIL a
rim HtMORlAL man}

[A FURURTMJUNE tar.
' ' z'nrz,

'

ND

 

Playground
Circus Days

The Playground Circus
is sweeping the land!
Is your city planning
to have one this year?

Courtesy “A Review of Two C haritable Trusts”

children of all the Smith Memorial Play-
grounds of Philadelphia together is the an-
nual circus, which has taken place regularly for
the past ten years on the First Saturday in June.
Recently the United States Naval Home has given
us the use of its grounds which adjoin Ferry Road
Playground. The broad lawns and shade trees
make it an ideal setting.
Some idea of the size of the performance and

THE ONE GREAT EVENT which brings all the.

Every year since I926 the
children of the Smith Me-
morial Playgrounds of Phila-
delphia have had a circus.
It is a gala occasion and
one in which the children
have a large part from mak-
ing invitations. painting
scenery and constructing
animals. to participating in
the events. The circus is
described by Phoebe Hall
Valentine. Executive Direc-
tor ot the Smith Memorial
Playgrounds and Playhouses.
in her book. "A Review of
Two Charitable Trusts."

271

 

the need for definite organization is shown by the
fact that over 600 children actually take part in
the performance and that there is always an audi-
ence of over 2,000.

Early in April a joint staff meeting of all our
playgrounds is held at Stanfield, at which time

(Continued on page 311)

The "Polish Village." a pre-circus proiect
which held the interest of twenty boys and
girls for weeks. and in which parents aided.

 +-

e. i '3

’ i 1
I'm   i'
. f .' i ',n :
{it e as"? “

 

Courtesy “A Review of Two Charitable Trusts”

SWimming Stunts

-, Some Simple Stunts

 OBBING. Push down with ' Water stunts and board
B stunts, tricks For single

performers and For groups,
and water games and races

the arms to raise the body
 as far out of the water as
possible. Then submerge, go—‘
ing directly to the bottom in an
erect position by throwing

arms high out of the wa- ‘ By
KATHARINE W. CURTIS, B.S.,M.A.

ter over head, keeping
legs extended and to—
gether. Inhale'above wa-
ter, hold breath ,on the way down,'and exhale on
the way to the surface again. In order to regain
the surface, push down on the arms until surface
is reached. This is executed in even rhythm and
may be varied by using a circle formation; or it
may be done in pairs with both partners going up
and down at the same time, or alternating like a
seesaw.

Figure Floating. Letters or hgures or patterns
may be formed with the participants floating on
the face or on the back.

Mermaid Prayer. Assume position of prayer and
hang in this position, hollow the back and reach
folded hands out in front.

Advanced Sculling toward the Feet. Float on
back, hands close to sides, low under the hips.
Using the arms as sculls, extended but with flexi—
ble wrists and elbows, swing the arms away from
body about a foot, with little fingers up and a
sharply bent wrist, pushing the water toward the
head. Return the arms to the sides gently with
thumbs up. The emphasis should be on the push
away from the body in order to push .the body
toward the feet. ' '

Advanced Sculling toward the Head. Float on
back, hands at side of body. Propel body toward
head by using hands as sculls close to the body.
This movement starts at the shoulders, using the
entire arm extended bth with a flexible elbow and
wrist. The legs remain extended and together.
Swing the arms away from "
the body, palms out, little fin—
gers up. Return arms to side,
turning palms toward body,
thumbs up. By relaxing the
wrists, making the hands the
lash of the whip, a figure eight

This material. arranged by Katharine
Whitney Curtis. author of "A Source
Book of Water Pageantry." is used
' by permission of the I938 "Swimming
Pool Data and Reference Annual."

published by Hoffman. Harris. Inc.

will be executed with each
hand. The arms work simul—
taneously and continuously

emphasizing ,the pull in toward
the body.

Elementary Sculling toward
Feet. Float on back, hands at
sides, slightly lower than
hips. Bend wrists “so
that finger tips are down.
By bending the elbows,
pull the hands in this position sharply toward the
head. Relax the hands and arms and reach to-‘the
starting position. Repeat, pulling the body'toward
the feet. -- ‘ a a a , ' ' '

Elementary Sculling toward Head. Float on back,
hands at sides of body. Bring hands slowly up to
waist, keeping thumbs in contact with sides. Bring
tips of hngers above the surface of water by Hex-
ing wrists and quickly push the water toward the
feet by extending elbows forcibly. Pause and re-
peat the entire movement.

Side Porpoise. Standing in shallow water, jump
body high out' of the water, diving sideward, with

' hands together overhead. Repeat; advancing with

each spring.

Spinning Top. (Swimming in a tub). Draw the
knees up against the chest, keeping the hips down,
and spin around on your own axis, by. sculling
with the hands below the body, pushing the water
forward withlthe right and backward with the left

hand.

Surface Dive. Starting from an arched position »
on chest, arms extended, sweep arms to side in
breast stroke. With an upward scoop of arms,
bend sharply at the waist as in a jackknife, chin
on chest. This should bring the hips out of the
water. Lift the extended legs over the head as in
a hand stand, being careful not to raise the head.
This motion should force the hands to the bottom.
When down, bring the feet to the bottom in a
squat position, and push up to
the surface.

This stunt may also be exc-
cuted by turning a half forward
somersault in a tucked position
and forcibly extending the legs
into the air as in a hand stand.

275

276 , SWIMMING STUNTS

Swimming with Feet Tied. The swimmer may
scull toward the head or feet on back or face, or
swim breast stroke, back stroke or side stroke
without the legs; or can use the legs by bending
the knees and pushing the water with the shins.

Swimming with the Hands Tied. With the hands
tied behind the back it is possible to swim on the
back or on the face using the frog kick, scissor
kick or crawl kick. With the hands tied in front,
the same kicks are possible, but the arms may be
used also to push the water toward the feet.

Tandem Simple Back Stroke. One of a pair of
swimmers swims simple back stroke with arms,
feet hooked in armpits of partner, knees stiff,
keeping in unison with the second person who
swims with both arms and legs.

Wheel Floating. A group of eight swimmers
form a circle, fOur facing in and four facing out.
The tallest ones should be facing the center. Those
in the center float and join hands in centerhthus
forming-.thehub. Spread legs so that the,outer
circle may grasp them with extended arms, thus
forming a wheel which may be turned.

If the outer circle members of the wheel float
also_-with.their legs together, two swimmers may
turn the wheel by swimming around and pulling
the wheel. I

Intermediate

Butterfly Floating. Done in partners, floating on
back with feet of one at head of the other. Grasp
each other’s nearest leg with the nearest hand,
putting the hand‘under the ankle. By spreading
and closing the arms and legs gently, the pair may
turn themselves around. I

Double Float. Partners floating on back, one
ahead of the other, with arms extended over head,
legs close, the first one grasping the ankles of the
other. Slowly and deliberately spread arms and
legs. Close and repeat.

Figure Swimming. Patterns and figures may be
executed, using different strokes and following
the leader as in maze marching or any land drill
in closed or open formation.

The Foursome. Number I and 2 swim on back.
using crawl kick, inside hands joined, stretching
sirleward, and pulling Number 3 and 4 by their
outside hands otItstretched. Number 3 and 4 swim

on face, head up, inside hands joined and stretch-
(1'1 sideward, using crawl kick.

Hand Stand. Stand on hands in the shallow
water with legs together straight overhead, toes
pointed, back arched. It is done by turning half
a front somersault, then placing hands on the bot-
tom and extending the legs.

Heavenly Twins. Partners swim with inside arms
tied together at the wrist and inside legs bound

together at the ankle.
/

Leap Frog.

I. In pairs, just as on land, with the back mem—
ber of the pair leaping over her partner, feet
spread apart and landing feet first on the other
side.

- 2. As above, but going over head first.

3. In a line. The leaper goes over the first one
and under and between the legs of the next one.

4. In pairs. Number I floating on the surface
on her face with her arms and legs spread. N um-
ber 2 swimming from behind glides over Number
I, pushing her to the bottom by pushing on'her
shoulders and then, by standing on her shoulders,

- gaining force to move forward and stretch out

on the water as her partner had been. Number 2
in the meantime pushes up from bottom. Immedi-
ately upon touching it, she slides through her
partner’s legs and repeats the entire procedure.

Looking for a Sweetheart. In deep water, one
partner on land, one in the water. The one in the
water shouts for help and disappears. Number 2
dives in, swims over to where Number I has dis-
appeared and, standing on Number I’s shoulders,
shades her eyes and looks anxiously around. Sud-
denly the person below pushes Number 2 for-
ward off the shoulders, pulling her down to the
bottom and climbs up onto the other’s shoulders.
So the search continues.

Motionless Sinking. Assume a face float, arms
extended over head, holding breath, and then blow
out all the air through the nose in a steady stream
trying to sink to the bottom. Usually you slide
down and back toward the feet. Lie Hat on the
bottom, face down for a moment, then place one
or both feet on the bottom, or simply both hands,
and spring to the surface.

Pendulum. Float on back, legs together, arms
extended over head. Takedeep breath and bring
head forward as hands are gently drawn toward
the head, causing feet to sink. When perpendicu-
lar, breathe again, bring arms gently to front of
the body and extend out in front, face in the wa-
ter, raising heels to face float position. To resume

SH/[MJIING STUNTS

the back float position, raise head slowly and
breathe. Draw hands to back of head, causing
feet to sink. When body is perpendicular, extend

arms slowly behind head,
keeping palms up and

There's no stunt too difficult tor those daring

277

Double Back Somersault—Back to Back. Partners
back to back, hands joined, extended to side. \Vith
knees tucked to chest, roll backward, pulling on
hands, back to back,
head to back, head to

swimmers at the municipal pool in Canton.0hiol

head back until the legs rise. Repeat smoothly to
resemble swinging of a pendulum.

Revolving Truclgeon. The same as the spiral
crawl, but using the trudgeon kick instead of the
crawl kick.

Double Back Somersault—Facing. Partners fac-

ing, join hands extended to the side and, pulling

on hands, roll backward, keeping knees tucked up
on chest, foot to foot, back to back, head to head,
without breaking group.

 

head, without breaking group.

The Double Front Somersault—Bacltlto Back.
Partners back to back, grasping hands extended
to the side and drawing knees up to chest. turn
back somersaults at the same time, pulling away
from each other with hands, rolling back tn back,
sole to sole. and shins to shins.

Double Forward Somersault—Facing. l’artners
face each other, grasping hands stretched to the

(Continued- un page 31.?)

Cen ter gag-.4; ‘25....‘l;.*a;.’bi an}; ' '

~ ORNELIA, GEORGIA, is a community of less
C than 2,000 people, but it has proved that size

is no deterrent to community enterprise.
About three years ago, when the depression had
reduced the membership of the Kiwanis Club to
twenty—fiveha call was sent out for proposals. for
a major activity which would inject new life into
the club. In response, someone voiced the opin—
ion that the club should have a better place in
which to hold its meetings. From this developed
the idea of. building a club house which would not
only be a permanent meeting place for the Ki-
wanis Club in all of its activities but would func-
tion as a civic center. Inn
mediater all members of the
club became interested. A

 

The story of the development of a social
center in Cornelia. Georgia. is told

planning and building committee was appointed to
work out plans for financing and constructing the
building. The hrst year was devoted to financing
and to planning the details of the project. Later
in the fall of that year the actual work was be-
gun. The following year was devoted to building.
It was a slow but sure process, and on January
21,. 1937, the club officially dedicated the beautiful
building and presented it to the community.

In the basement are a large grill, a library,
shower baths and a heating plant. On the. main
floor is a large ballroom 40 by 60 feet. This floor
also houses the concession space, cloak rooms,
ladies’ rest rooms, a lounge,
kitchen and pantry. At one'

(Continued on page 313)

by Carl E. Endicott in the February
I938 issue of the Kiwanis Magazine.

a.
i '

( -r.rtcsy [5.7 “ml: ('lub, Cornelia, Ga.

' 5

i

,5?

at!

..

~ #85
¢_

 

The Place ot the Day Camp in Modern 

Why have day camps? What
purposes do they serve?

  

MW    . WILLIAM M. GRIMSHAW
"  i  '5 Department of Health and

Physical Education

Public Schools
Springfield. Massachusetts.

The camptoday mzwglassihed into three dis—
tin'ct types. One is represelit’evc‘l—byt‘he‘oiig—ainized 1
mass camps,“s‘uch as Boy Scout and Girl "SE61?
camps, Y.V\/.C.A., and Y.M.C.A. camps, and other
)ublic and private boarding camps. Another type a _

is the mobile camp. These are usually organized “1

UT OF THE FEVERISH, urbanized environ—
O nient of noise and crowded living condi-
tions, as found in most cities, have emerged
new desires for freedom, country life and the
primitive existence. New efforts are being made
to satisfy the needs of millions of children and

adults through camping activities. The modern

camp, though only a little over fifty years ‘old, has
become so popular that—it (cons—utilities a major por-
tion of the recreation programs of a vast number
of persons in the United States today. It is esti-
mated that nearly three million children go__camp-
ing in some form annually, and yet organized
camping has tenched only a'“re1atively small num-
ber of persons in need of this educational
experience.

,z/ Historically, camping is probably the oldest of
all ways of living. Primitive man is known to
have been a camper because of necessity and lack
of knowledge of other means of living. Little
imagination is required to appreciate that the
early settlers of this country were, in many re-
spects. campers. Their everyday living was in-
fluenced by primitive necessity as evidenced in the
activities of trail blazing, Woodcraft, ceremonies
and rituals. Modern society has been greatly
concerned with a newer program of living and
has turned attention away from the country and
more primitive life to the city. It has experienced
a period of invention and construction and. con-
sequently, has become the product of a mechani-
cal existence. But the artiliciality of the present
mode of living is a relatively new experience as
compared with the time-hallowed mode of camp

life of earlier man.

in smaller units and are represented by hunting
and hiking groups, tourists camps, and the steadily
growing Youth Hostel Movement. The third type,
which is a comparatively recent development in
camping, is_tlle_organize¢.day camp with the or-
ganization of a regular mass camp but which does
not provide for regular overnight sleeping
facilities.

Objectives of Day Camps

Among the purposes of the day camp is that of
giving the children the oppétttinity to spend the
day' out—of—doors in the woods, submerging them
in a healthful environment, affording them ,a
chance to participate in those camping activities
that would be carried on in any long—term camp,
and at the same time allowing them to return home
for the night. It should serve to intrpduce the art
of camping to children,and parents as well,rpre-
pare them for a continuous stay in camp for ex-
tended periods, and provide a good time in a
natural and wholesome way.

There is a definite tendency to recognize the
organized ,_ day camp as an educational institution,
rather than a place where parents can place their
children for the day. Those who are thinking of
the day camp as an educational agency are not,
however, thinking of it in terms of a transplanted
school. I f the best results aref'tlesircd the program

" ‘ 279

u.

280 THE PLACE OF THE DAY CAJl/[P IN MODERN LIFE

ought to be flexible. Organization, of course, is
essential but overLorganization may be detrimental
to the best interests of the campers, and to the
management as well. The program should be
moulded according to the need of the constitu-
ency. The standardized pattern found in many
school situations 'should be at a minimum. The
day camp program ought to be based on the nat-
ural interests of the children and the camp itself".
It ought to be a place where contacts with others
and the infiuences of the natural environment will
bring out the various qualities and potentialities
of the children. The program should not be im-
posed but rather should grow out of the situa-
tion and the actual, living conditions of the
campers.

The Program

Until very recent years competitive sports were
regarded by many camp leaders as the core of the
summer camp program. Such competition was not
confined entirely to athletic games but in many
instances included nature study, handcrafts, hik-
ing” singing and other activities. The trend today
is away from the emphasis on competitive games
to an enlarged program with definite educational
aims and objectives. There is, and should be, less
emphasis on the required, formal type of pro-
gram in favor of providing for the desirable in-
terests and needs of individual campers. ,Ihe edg-
cation_a__l_ kaimiin“anngoodwcamp or] recreation pro_-
gram  involve the whole individual. camp
leaders who plan‘itheir programs in terms of de-
sirable educational outcomes are concerned with
such objectives as wholesome fun, healthful living,
self—reliance, socialigadjustment and character
building: Values received from the many educa-
tive experiences in camp should make for whole-
some personalities and enrich lives.

The pendulum of public opinion is swinging
Very definitely toward the ac—
ceptance of camping eXperi-
ence as an integral part of the
educational program .' Influ-
ence has been brought to bear
to a great extent by educators
who have quite generally ac-
cepted the fact that camp life
benefits children. A well—regu-
lated program of outdoor liv—
ing with opportunitiesiof
w .rking, playing and, cooper-
ati 1g together Slmultl be avail-

lnterest in day camping is growing by
leaps and bounds and there is an in-
creasing demand for information on
the subject. Mr. Grimshawl in this
article' has given us the "setting" of
the day camp movement. He is well
qualified to present the obiectives
of this important phase of camping.
for he organized and for a number of
years directed the Springfield College
day camp. one of the early day
camps in New England. He is now
making a special study in this field.

able to every growing child, if not to every adult.
Perhaps the greatestJi,11gle.,contribution__wzlu§h
cramping can offer to any-_gr.0up_rof, campers is an
experiencenof successgfu1_coop,e_1;a__t_ion. To mould

,_.__.—_, «‘-

the varied interests, skills,.and abilities into an en—
riched common purpose for all is indeedan ac; ‘
complishment. The growing interest in camping
with its possibilities for educative experiences in
the lives of children is shared by parents and edu-
cators and promises to continue to be a contribut-
ing factor in education.

In the preceding paragraphs an attempt has
been made to point out some of the many reasons
why camping is emphasized today/"as a1} impor-
tant activity-in the lives of Children, and why it is
truly a significant part of a good educational rec-
reation program. Many of the reasons given are
obvious and have stood the test for years. The
real problem has been, perhaps, not the already
established programs, but how to provide for an
equality of camping experiences and privileges.

Helping‘to Equalize Camping Privileges

It is here that the organized day camp has been
at least a partial answer to theiproblenifThrough
the medium of thisprogram the educational ad-
vantages and pleasures of camp life may be en;
joyed without the expense of elaborate equip-
ment, high fees. and overhead costs that are usu;
ally characteristic, by necessity, of camps operat-
ing for extended periods.

Camping experience should be universally avail-
able for the social and educational development of
every community. It is interesting to note that in
many municipalities either school or non-school
agencies are now providing day camping in their
curricular, extra-curricular or regular programs.
It fills a great gap in th_e__edug_ation process that,
cannotibeitak'en care of in the formal classroom.
The splendid example in New York City shows,"
What may be done in this re-
spect. Here a cooperative ex-
periment carried on by the
Board of Education, Park De-
partment, and the Education ~
Division of the Works Prog-
ress Administration made pos-
sible a workable plan whereby
thousands of elementary school
children benefit through real
camping . activities. Another
fine example of cooperative

(Continued on page 313)

Books and the More Abundant Lite

By This delightful address by Miss
Richardson, Head LibrarianI Florida
LOUISE RICHARDSON State College for Women at Tal-

lahasseel was given before a
group of alumnae gathered on

IMAGINE THIS MORNING that we feel somewhat “‘9 camPUS {0" 3" Alumnae C0"

like the character in Years of Grace who re- legev H Wi" 59nd Y0” P°5+h35+e

- . . . to our n r ' '-
niarks. “The trouble With education is that we y ea (35+ I'brary' '5 Y°u are
. not so tortunate as to possess

always read everything when we're too young to +he books which She recommends!
know what it means. And the trouble with life is

that we’re always too busy to read later." But one

of the solemn obligations of the educated person ple who seem to want everything done for them,
is to continue his education. Books and reading I shall not suggest any digested magazines nor
play an important part in
this post-graduation edu-
cation, on both the intel-
lectual and the recrea-
tional sides. That books
are decidedly recreational
is evidenced by the study
made in 1934 by the Na-
tional Recreation Asso-
ciation on “The Use of
Leisure." Of the 93 free-
time activities named in
5,002 answers, reading
topped the list for the
large majority of those
who replied.

Although we like to be
left alone in selecting our
reading, we are so sur-
rounded by a deluge of
printed material that
there is danger of drown-
ing in a sea of printers’
ink. The sheer quantity of
book production makes
plain the necessity for
selection. Although we
belong to a nation of peo-

Very early in lite boys
and girls may begin to
develop an appreciation
of the joys of books

 

282 BOOKS AND THE MORE ABUNDANT LIFE

predigested books. Nor shall I follow the dic—
tates of l\'[rs. Gossip and say, “My dears, you
must read this or that. It is a perfectly charming
book. Every one is reading it.” The reading of
that sort of books is often more a matter of
vanity than of pleasure.

My suggestions for books and the more abund-
ant life begin with three books which we all com-
mandeer sooner or later, whether we be under-
graduate, graduate, or neither. They are the
“Three Musketeers” of knowledge: A good atlas,
a good encyclopedia, and a good dictionary.
These are books which are hourly counselors,
arbiters, and companions. A speaking acquaint—l
ance with them is tantalizing; a casual friendship
with them is unsatisfactory. We must live With
them to enjoy and appreciate them.

Fundamental Books

From these we turn to certain other books,
primary and fundamental if we would under-
stand and enjoy much of the writings and litera-
ture of all ages even to the present. The Bible,
the Greek and Latin Classics, Arabian Nights,
Pilgrim’s Progress, Don Quixote and many others
are so intertwined with our literaturethat we can—
not read even current magazines without at least
a speaking acquaintance with them. About five
years ago a reader of the Atlantic Monthly de-
cided to tabulate, from twenty—four issues of,this
magazine, the'references made to these classic
books. Every word of the magazines was read
except the advertising, with the result that a total
of 2693 references were found in the twenty-four
issues. T o classics of the 19th century 77o refer-
ences were made. Included in these'allusions were
all the great novels of the past century.

The 18th century was well represented also,
enough so that it showed that an intelligent reader
should be familiar with Robinson Crusoe, Vicar
of Wakefield, Gulliver’s Travels, Clarissa Har-
lo'we and Rasselas, as well as with the works of
Fielding, Smollet, Gibbon and Boswell, and with
The Spectator.

The 16th and 17th centuries include the great
Elizabethan period in literature. The Atlantic
Monthly contributors assumed that we 'should
have a passing acquaintance with Pepys, Bacon,
Shakespeare, Bunyan, La Fontaine, and others.

There were eighty-four allusions to Chaucer,
Dante, the Chanson de Roland, and the great Eng—
Iish and Scottish ballads; 325 allusions to Greek
and Roman writings and mythology; 607 to the

Bible; and less than fifty references to any re—
ligion except the Christian.

4 So it would seem that to read our better cur-
rent magazines we need as a foundation for un-
derstanding—a knowledge of the truly great books
of the centuries past. Included in these are books
of exquisite humor by such masters as Aristo—
phanes, Swift and Mark Twain. It may be that
you prefer Leacock, Cobb, Will Rogers or Robert
Benchly. They have their place but are in no way
comparable to the real masters of humor. Falstaff
and Mr. Pickwick, though wholly fictitious, have
by the consummate skill of their creators taken on
attributes of reality and are worth knowing.
Books of humor written by master craftsmen bind
friend to friend, youth to age, and families to
families. How many households are more com-
fortable and possess understanding because of
Tom Sawyer, Alice In Wonderland, and Uncle
Remus! It takes a hard—boiled person not to re—.
spond to “the wheezles and squeezles” of Chris—
tOpher Robin. How many times have you with
Alice “run as fast as you could to stay where you

are?” Or have you never had the joy of philoso-
phizing with Brer Rabbit and Brer Wolf?

Fiction Has Its Place

Fiction, both literary and that purely for enter-
tainment, has its place, and the lover of one has
no cause to scoff at the other. We need not object
to Wuthering Heights because it is grim, nor
scorn The Good Companions because it is cheer-
ful. Mrs. Wiggs has a place as well as David
Copperfield and Soames F orsyte. But upon what
basis do we judge fiction unless we have read such
great novels as Tom Jones, Vanity Fair, Return
of the N ative, Anna Karenina, or Scarlet Letter?
With these as background we read with keener
insight and more enjoyment novels of Galsworthy,
Willa Cather, Walpole, Thomas Mann, Ellen
Glasgow, or Edith Wharton. As we read the
Good Earth we groan with the poor, but how
much more vivid are Philpott’s Children of the

Mist, Chekhov’s Children That Were llfen, and
Hamlin Garland’s Prairie Polk? We have read
with a certain pleasure Glasgow’s Barren Ground
and Cather’s O’ Pioneers, but have we remem—
bered to read Zola’s Paris, Hugo’s Les Miserables,
or Dickens’s Oliver Twist?

I would be the last to advise one to close his
eyes to the new or to shut himself up with the
old. I know. too well the adventure of opening a
new book-—the pleasure of hearing the crackle of

l l

l

BOOKS AND THE MORE ABUNDANT LIFE

new leaves and the smell of fresh print. Yet I
know. too, that there is something comforting
about old favorites. With Lamb we have an af-
fection for “our ragged veterans.” They are a
part of one's self.

Keep Essays on Your List!

Essays seem to have fallen into disrepute, per—
haps because of the way we met them. Yet Ba—
con. Lamb and Emerson hold for us charm, humor
and inspiration. Emerson might well be speaking
this morning as he offers his three guide-posts for
discrimination in reading. He says, “Never read
any book that is not a year old; never read any
but famed books, and never read any but what
you like.”

If 'you think you dislike the essay begin by
reading some modern, informal essays such as
“Do not open until Christmas” in W’arner’s

,tCronps and Couples. Christopher Morley in his

44 Essays writes our own feelings for us in two
essays: “Time to Light the
Furnace,” and “On Unan—
swering Letters.” A. A.
Milne strikes a common
ground with us in his collec-
tion called Jiglgjli/Lay. Per-
haps the best all-round vol—
ume of informal essays
which are good for begin-
ners in essay reading is Tan-
ner's Essays and Essay Writing. The essay on
“Pet Economics” is likely to become a favorite.

Drama

For drama and a lot of pleasure introduce your—
self to some of the plays of Marlow, Ben Jonson.
Sheridan, Goldsmith, and, of course, Shakespeare.
You will then be ready to lose yourself in more
modern plays which have made people laugh, cry
-——and think: Such plays as The Cherry Orchard,
Death Takes a Holiday, Strife, Doll’s House and
Cyrano de Bergerac. Or let the curtain rise for
you on Dear Brutus, Saint Joan, Alien Corn, Vic-
toria Regina or the Barretts of Witnpole Street.

In short, as Rolvaag says, “Life is what mat-
ters. To learn about it, I must seek out the great
interpreters —— poet, dramatist, novelist. Their
senses are keener than mine; they have strained
their vision; they have laid their ear close up to
the aching heart of humanity and listened breath-
lessly; they have seen and and heard things un-
speakable. So I go to them to get wisdom, under-

"Little fragments of eternity, quietly
ranged along the plain wall. you stand
there u_npretentiously in our home. Yet
when the hand frees you. when the heart
touches you. you break through the every-
day. prosy surroundings: your words lead
us as in a fiery chariot up from petti-
ness into the eternal."—Stefan Zweig.

283

standing and beauty. Every time I am with them
my fellowship grows more intimate.” In other
words, he says that great books cannot be swal-
lowed at a gulp—we must live with them to know
them.

Choose Friends from the Great of the Earth

From biography we can pick friends from
among the great of earth and take our place in the
best society of the world. These books are not
just paper, ink and cloth; they are persons, and
for the most part a company of immortals.

I can mention only a few: Ruskin’s Praeterita,
Plutarch’s Lives, Franklin’s Autobiography,
Beveridge’s Marshall, Gosse’s Father and Son,
Nevin’s Grover Cleveland, and Freeman’s Robert
E. Lee. I

There is a group of biographies of men and
women of science I cannot refrain from recom—
mending: Vallery Radot's Pasteur, the Life of
William Corbas, De Kruif’s Ill en Against Death
and his H anger Fighters, and
' the very recent Madame Curie
by her daughter—these
among many who faced death
lightly that the rest of us
might live. As we read
Pupin’s From Immigrant to
Inventor, we almost believe
that we stood with him as he
talked to the immigration of-
ficial, declaring that he has three friends in
America. “What friends?” asks the official.
“Benjamin Franklin, Abraham Lincoln, and Har-
riet Beecher Stowe,” answers the lad. Then there
is the near-perfect love story in Parker’s An
American 'Idyll, while in Mowrer's Journalist’s
Wife we adventure in modern Europe and have
the isms thereof reduced to understandable terms.

I should like to mention the world books in
economics, international relations, peace, conser-
vation, and many other subjects, but time does
not permit. I must, however, invite you to travel
the arm-chair way through books. By this method
no passport is needed. There are no clothes to
buy, sort and pack, no seasickness and no dangers
of war. Without sore and weary feet, and with
little expense, one may go North to the Orient
with Anne Lindbergh. adventure with Earhart
on her Last Flight, visit lllexico with Stuart
Chase, take A Vagabond Journey Around the
World with Harry Franck, eat Red Bread or see

(Continued on page 314)

Are You Planning a Summer Party?

UMMER PARTIES may be made very attractive
S affairs by basing them on seasonal themes
and introducing activities suggestive of sum-
mer. For example, why not take a summer cruise?

Ship Ahoy! A Sailor Party

Buy “passports” on shore and pin them on be-
fore going on deck. Passports of four colors
divide the party into four groups, each gathering
under its own pennant or ship Hag, perhaps the
Neptune, Isabella, Yan Shan, and Moby Dick.
Each group chooses a sailor captain and a steward
to assist in songs and contests.

The admiral of the fleet makes all announce-
ments of events, confers with the judges in de-
ciding on the winning
group and presents prizes
at the end of the party.
His first mate acts, as
scorer. Each group cap-
tain explains the events
to members of his crew,
lines them up for contests, and sees that all par-
ticipate and keep rules. Three judges sit in the
“Crow’s Nest,” some place of vantage where they
can see well. The nautical band plays sailing tunes
as crews come on deck, such as “Nancy Lee,”
“My Bonnie,” and so on. All sing “A Ship Is
Made of Metal.”

Here are a few suggestions for games:

‘ One Bell: Deck Promenade. All participate in a
Grand March. End in formation eight abreast,
spaced down length of gym, straight lines, facing
north.

Catching the Stowaway (Thief in the Alley).
Hold hands with guests on either side, forming
alleys running east and west. The four stewards
act as stowaways who try to escape being caught
by their bloodthirsty captains, each captain chas-
ing his own stewards up and down the alleys. The
admiral blows his whistle and each player faces
east and grasps the hand of the person on either
side, forming alleys running north and south. The
stowaways must escape through these newly made
alleys. The admiral blows again, everybody faces
east, and so on until each captain has captured his
own stowaway. Unwind the, formation and make
a huge single circle, counting off by threes.

28-1-

On Friday the titteenth we set sailI

Be here at eight bells without fail.

We're off seeking treasure of diamond and gold.
So come and be a sailor most bold.

Finding [My Cabin (Squirrel in the Hollow).
One and two of each group of three hold hands
making a hollow or “cabin” in which three stands.
Three extra passengers have no cabin. At the
whistle all Number Three’s vacate their cabins,
finding new ones. Three extra passengers attempt
to steal into a cabin. Whistle blows at short in-
tervals eight or ten times. Then Number One’s
become the passengers, seeking a cabin; next
Number Two’s, until everybody has had a good
chase.

Two Bells: Swabbing the Declc. Six from each
group are lined up in single file behind the start—
ing line for this relay, each group, having a large
empty water bucket and scrub brush. At the sig-
nal “go” the first person
in each group begins
scrubbing the deck, go—
ing on all fours with
brush and bucket for a
certain specified distance,
and back again to the
starting line where brush and bucket are passed
to next person. The group finishing first wins ten
points. _

Three Bells: Turtle. The turtle race calls for
eight paper pie plates, two for each group. There
are eight participants in each group. Wearing
“turtle” shells (pie plates) for shoes, the members
of the crew walk over burning sands of a desert
island. At “go” the first player in each group
steps into two pie plates, walks as fast as he can
the designated distance and back to starting line
without losing or stepping out of the turtle shells,
which he passes to the next player who repeats the
performance. The winning group receives ten
points.

Four Bells: Feeding the Monkeys. This requires
two from each group, one the monkey, one the
feeder. Both are blindfolded and sit facing each
other in chairs three feet apart. The feeder, at
the signal “go” begins feeding eight marshmal-
lows to the monkey, one at a time, until the mon-
key‘ has swallowed all and then hops around his
chair. The winning monkey scores five points for
his crew.

Five Bells: All Hands on Deck. Six people from
each group pile their shoes in one heap, forty—

ARE YOU PLANNING A SUMMER PARTY? 285

eight shoes in all, then each group lines up behind
the starting line. At the signal “go” all dash
madly on deck, find their own shoes, put them on,
then report back behind the starting line to the
captain who checks in all his crew when they are
fully clothed in proper shoes. Ten points go to
the winning crew.

Six Bells: Filling the Water Tank. This requires
twelve people from each group. These four lines
of twelve each face in the same direction. At the
head of each line is a bucket of water and an
empty tin cup; at the foot, an empty quart milk
bottle. At the signal “go” the person at the head
of the line fills the cup with water and it is passed
down the line to the last one who empties the
water into the milk bottle. The empty cup is
passed back to the head of the line, refilled, passed
down, emptied, and so on until the quart bottle is
filled. The line filling. its bottle first wins ten
points.

Seven Bells: Walking the Plank. This game calls
for five people from each group lined up single
file behind the starting line. Three feet from the
starting line a narrow plank about I”x4”x6o” is
laid on the floor. The first one in each‘group is
blindfolded by the captain, turned around three
times and started walking on his plank at the sig-
nal “go.” He has to walk, hands behind him, to
the end; then from the end, backwards, to the
starting point. If he steps off, he must get backon
immediately. When he arrives at the starting
point the captain takes off the blindfold and puts
it on the next player, who repeats the feat. The
five contestants on one team walking the plank
and completing first win ten points.

Eight Bells: Pirate Parade. One girl or boy from
each crew is chosen to be painted and dressed as a
terrible buccaneer. The members of each group
can help dress their “pirate,” each group having
the same kinds of materials to decorate the pir—
ate—black eye-brow pencil, lipstick, strips of col—
ored cloth or crepe paper, curtain rings. Let the
girls of the crew contribute to this “decorating”
from their own adornments, if they like. Allow
ten minutes for dressing the pirates, then have
them parade before the Whole ‘company and
judged. The one judged the
most typical and fierce wins
five points. Have your pirate
act the part.

W’hile the whole party sings
songs the scorer, judges and
admiral confer, deciding upon

The suggestions for "Dog Days" and
"Off to the Races" have been taken
from "Summer Activities and Inde-
pendence Day Celebration"—Activi-
ties Bulletin Series Number 8, is-
sued by the Chicago Park District.

the winning crew. The prize is presented by the
admiral of the fleet to the captain of the winning
crew. The prize may be a bag of gold (yellow
lemon drops or wine balls), a toy ship, or any-
thing else nautical and inexpensive. (Special
music, stunts, tap dancing and the like may be
put in between events.)

Refreshments: Raid on the Galley. Punch, sand-
wiches and cakes.

Dog Days

Highly appropriate for these “dog days” is a
party featuring our canine friends! Here are a
few suggestions:

Do You Know Your Dogs? Find pictures of ten
different breeds of dogs, such as Scotties, grey-
hounds, setters, poodles, Boston terriers, collies,
Pomeranians, police dogs and others that frequent
the magazine pages. Give each person a slip of
paper marked from one to ten. Number the pic-
tures and pass them, one at a time, to your guests,
They are to write the name of each dog opposite i.
the corresponding number found on their slips.
Prizes are awarded for the one having the largest
number of correct names. See that the pictures
are passed quickly.

Jumbled Dogs. Cut dog pictures into five sec-
tions—heads, legs, tails, bodies and ears———and
make as many piles on a bridge table of these
different sections. Place a jar of paste and a pad
of paper and enough pieces to assemble a complete
d0g. Paste these sections in their proper positions
on the sheet of paper to make a dog. The results
will be side-splitting and far from true to form.
Lay the models on the table for selection and vote
for the most grotesque animal, awarding a prize
to the same.

Name Your Pet Dog. Everyone thinks of a
name he would choose for his pet dog and in ten
words gives his reason for choosing this name but
does not mention the name. The rest of the group
must guess the name. They may ask any questions
to help them. .

Dog Biscuit Race. Ask the guests to form two
straight lines. Place a medium sized box directly
in back of each line about three feet from the
last person. Hand everyone
three puppy biscuits. At a
given signal the first one in
each line hands a biscuit, one
at time, over his shoulder intoi
the box, then whistles and the

(Contimwd on. page 315)

Municipal Golf Makes
ul--lole in One"

By TAM DEERING
.Director of Recreation
Cincinnati, Ohio

try as a. center for sand-lot baseball and is

one of the two or three outstanding cities in
the country from the standpoint of the nt’meers
participating in the playing of baseball and soft—
ball on an amateur basis. The situation is rapidly
changing, through the developments brought
about under the leadership of the Public Recrea-
tion Commission during the past live years. Since
1932 the number of ball diamonds has been in- _
creased from  to 159, and .‘ Cour-terry Trenton,  J.,-1Park Depagment

the numbef 0f Players has Baseball has long been a popular sport in -
increased by thOUSaHdS- Cincinnati. Ball diamonds are increasing. 3386135111 and SOftball: as
but Interest in golf is record breaking! played in Cincinnati, are

now facing two rivals_
golf and tennis, both of which are gaining in pro-
portion of players in spite of the great increase in
ball playing. In 1932 there were 50 tennis courts.
In 1938 the season opened with 160 courts in play.
During 1937 the number of different individuals
playing reached a total of 12,000.

It is in golf, however, that the most phenomenal
increase has taken place. During 1937 13,000
different persons registered on the two municipal
golf courses. This was in contrast to 4,000 dif-
ferent’players in 1934.

In 1930 there were I4,000 greenfees sold at
Avon Fields—w the only municipal golf' course at
that time. Since 1935 the first nine holes of the
new California Municipal Golf Course have been
in play. By 1937 the number of greenfees at the
two courses had reached a total of 41,000. It is
predicted that during 1938, with the opening of
the second nine holes on the second municipal
golf course, there will be at least 16,000 different
players and 55,000 greenfees sold.

It is not the purpose of the Recreation Com-
mission to substitute golf for the great team games
«Magahzé‘ a . A _ f 7: such as baseball, football, basketball and hockey.
(alums-y Trenton, N. 1,, park pgpartmm There can be no adequate substitute for these, but

280

CINCINNATI has always stood out in .this coun-

 

'\

 

MUNICIPAL GOLF MAKES “HOLE IN ONE” 287

all team game players must recognize the fact
that the time will come at last when they will not
, have wind enoUgh in their lungs to last them
around the ninety foot bases. When that time
comes, the Recreation Commission would save
them from “spectatoritis.” Instead of deteriorat-
ing in the bleachers, it would have retired ball
players go on as long as they live with interest-
driven, stimulating, re—creative play in the out-
doors.

The Recreation Commission does not propose
to substitute golf for music, dramatics, art or
other creative or scientific leisure time interests.
It would have every man attain his highest cul-
tural attainment. But cultural activities alone are
not enough. Throughout the ages, during an in-
finite period of time leading up to very recent
years, man was an outdoor creature, a hunter, a
fisherman, an agriculturist. Now for the first
time he is trying to adapt himself to the cooped-
up confinement of factory and office and kitchen.
Hence he is homesick for the open skies, green
fields and woodlands. Harnessed to the machine
during working hours, and going to sleep physi-
cally and mentally at the “movie” or beside the
radio in his leisure hours, he faces rapid degener-
ation unless he can regain his active life in the
outdoors. Hence the well-considered plans of the
Recreation Commission in Cincinnati to teach the
game of golf free of charge to boys and girls of
high school age and to all interested adults. The
results have been amazing.

New Attitudes Created Toward Golf

Our analysis of the situation as it exists today
indicates that the new policies and new methods
applied to municipal golf in Cincinnati have suc-
ceeded to such an extent that several additional
courses will be required to take care of the new
demand on the part of people for golf, facilities.
The two municipal golf courses in Cincinnati are
now over-crowded to the point of discomfort.
Players are delighted with the facilities, but a
great many of them give up playing on the mu-
nicipal courses and go on to private courses be-
cause on week-ends and holidays there is no room
to play.

The new interest in golf at Cincinnati is not
due to any one thing but to a combination of many
things. It is due to the decision of the Recreation
Commission no longer to operate municipal golf
with the object of deriving an excess of receipts
over expenditures for use on playgrounds and

other recreational activities. It is due to the earn-
est efforts which have been made by the Commis-
sion to transform the thinking of the people of
Cincinnati with reference to golf. The Commis-
sion has endeavored in every proper manner to
educate the people to a realization of the possi-
bilities of golf as the most universal of all out-
door sports, appealing to the entire population, the
old and the young, the rich and the poor.

Not a Rich Man’s Game

The attitude in Cincinnati, like the attitude in
most parts of America, has been that golf is a
rich man’s game. The attitude has been that golf
is a game for a particular class and social group—
not a game for the masses. It has not been merely
the matter of the cost of the game. It has been
the feeling that golf necessitated membership in
an exclusive social set; that it involved wearing
unusual types of clothes. Golf has been the game
of the leisure class. The average American who
worships work and whose social traditions neces—
sitate work as the very taproot of his life, has
maintained a deep antagonism toward the game
of golf. As a Cincinnati citizen confessed to me,
“Years ago, before I took up municipal golf, I
would remark to my wife, when we passed a
golfer, ‘See that fellow with the silly clothes and
clubs————he’s crazy.’ ”

Up until the year 1932, the Recreation Com-
mission of Cincinnati operated golf along lines
which did not eradicate the common citizens’ op-
position to the game. Since 1932, new policies
have largely swept away the old antagonism.-

How It Was Done

This reversal in public opinion toward golf has
been brought about as the result of sweeping
changes along many lines. Minimum prices were
dropped from $1.00 to $.35. High school boys
and girls were invited to play at $.15. Free group
lessons were opened to anyone in the neighbor—
hood, in the factories, in the department 'stores, in
the physical education classes at high schools.
The cooperation of the newspapers was secured
in making a new interpretation of golf and in
making known to everyone the new policy. The
community has been made to see that not only
can anyone afford to play golf who can afford to
go to the “movies,” as the price is no greater, but
that one can be sure he will not be embarrassed
because of his awkwardness. When We opened
the new course at the California Water Works in

288 MUNICIPAL GOLF MAKES “HOLE IN ONE”

1935. 60 per cent of the players were beginners.
The word spread about that working men, clerks,

and those of all ages and groups were taking up .

municipal golf.

The writer introduced the idea of group golf

lessons and group tennis lessons to the Recreation
Commission Staff in the year 1932. At that time
he did not know that golf and tennis were being
taught in group lessons. Since that time he has
learned that other cities have been doing that sort
of thing, at least in golf. However, the idea was
not original with the writer. He had observed, in
the year 1918, how swimming was being taught
through group lessons in the city of Seattle, at a
time when he was organizing recreation in that
city. Group lessons for golf in Cincinnati started
with the realization of the necessity for some
means of teaching the masses to play, or of in-
troducing them to the game, at least.
i Starting with a few classes in 1933, registration
in the classes has increased until in 1937 there
were more than 6,000 different persons taking the
group golf lessons.

Local Newspapers Render Invaluable
Assistance

The Cincinnati Daily Post, a Scripps-Howard
newspaper, has featured our group golf lessons,
following our introduction of,the idea in 1933,
and has had a large part in popularizing both the
golf lessons and municipal golf in Cincinnati.
The city-wide beginners’ golf school conducted by
the Post and the Recreation Commission is held
every spring. Classes are arranged at both private
and public courses throughout the city. The Rec-
reation Commission furnishes the executive lead-
ership for the handling of the Post’s free golf
lessons. Twenty golf professionals volunteer as
teachers for this event. During the larger part of
the year when these lessons are not being spon-
sored by the Post, the Commission continues its
teaching of group lessons. Four Civil Service em-
ployees of the Commission and three WPA recre-
ation leaders organize and teach most of the
claSses during the winter season when play On the
courses is least heavy. By careful planning, this
arrangement stabilizes employment of golf per-
sonnel, substituting a heavy year-round program
of work for the seasonal employment of previous
years. Classes are organized in both public and
private high schools, in neighborhood centers, in
industrial plants, in offices, and in department
stores. The Commission will furnish leadership

for any group of twelve or more persons who
have never previously played golf. It will con-
duct classes in any part of the city, whether in
office, factory or school room. i

The Organization of Classes

A series ,of seven lessons is arranged. In-
dustrial classes meeting in the company’s quarters
are ordinarily held following the working hours.
Neighborhood classes are usually held in the eve-
ning at school gymnasia. -High school classes are
held during school hours in connection with the
regular physical education program. During the
summer, golf classes are conducted on the golf
courses.

The steps taken in arranging neighborhood
classes are as follows:

I. The neighborhood organization is interested

in backing the class.

2. 3T be local gymnasium or other facilities are
secured for the class.

3. Publicity is given in the daily and neighbor-
hood papers.

4. Mimeographed circulars describing the classes
are distributed in the neighborhood.

Industrial classes are arranged as follows:

I. The personnel manager or other official of
the company is interested.

2. An effort is made to create an interest in the
lessons on the part of the employees directly,
as well as through the management.

3. Some member of the firm is designated to
handle the registration.

4. Golf circulars are given out, announcing the
class.

5. Publicity, including editorials, pictures and
stories, is handled through the papers.

Instruction Procedure

Robert J. Strauss, Golf Supervisor for the
Recreation Commission, has outlined the instruc-
tion procedure as follows:

LESSON I—-—-A Lecture on the Game of Golf

I. Brief outline of the history of the sport and
reasons for playing the game.

2. Describe the layout of a course (by use of a
blackboard when indoors). An excellent plan
is to describe a match from the time a four-
some of golfers arrives at the first tee until
they return.

3. GolEng terms, rules, etiquette, etc.

4. Local facilities for golfing.

(Continued on page .316)

Robert Moses—Park Creator Extraordinary

OBERT MOSES—“Park
Creator Extraordin-
ary,” “probably the

ablest public administra-
tor in America,” “one of
the most exciting person—
alities on the national
scene,” “scholar—athlete,”
“human firecracker,”
“persistent hell—raiser
who combines intelligence
with the temper of a
wounded lion,” “the
worst politician in
America,” “one of the
first officials in this coun-
try to recognize that
adults not only enjoy but
actually require active
recreation,” “the creator
of the largest park sys—
tem in the world.”

These eulogies and epi—
thets gathered from the
press in recent months
are a bit of the effer-
vescence that has bubbled
over as writers have
tried to describe the man
and his work. Let us take a
look at this very colorful per-
sonality and the achievements

which call forth such com-

Robert Moses is the son of
a well—to—do department store owner in New
Haven, Connecticut. As a student in Yale he
championed the use of athletic money for tennis,
hockey, swimming and basketball as against its
almost exclusive use for football. He locked
horns with Coach \Valter Camp and won. He was
a star at water polo, which in his day was said to
be “the nearest to homicide of all the sports."
During four years in Oxford University, Eng—
land, he made a brilliant record as a student of
government and was elected to the presidency of
the Oxford Union—the only American to achieve
that honor. His. doctor’s thesis in Columbia in
1914 was on the English Civil Service. As he

 

Photo by Blank and .S'toller, Inc.

President of the Long Island State Park
CommissionI Chairman of the New York
State Council on Parksl Chairman of the
Jones Beach State Parkway Authority and ,
the Bethpage Park Authority. and Park that Whlle the State had

ment. Commissioner of the City of New York.

entered his public career
he knew government
thoroughly and was mo-
tivated by the. highest
ideals of public service.
When offered a salary as
head of the New York
State Reconstruction
Commission in 1918 by
Al Smith, then governor
of New York, he said,
“No— in America you
can get a lot of service
out of people for noth-
ing. The minute you put
a salary on the job it be-
comes an item for the
politicians.” He took the
job of reorganizing the
State Government and
reduced it from a con—
fused accumulation of
180 to eighteen depart—
ments. Naturally enough.
from that time forward,
he was no friend of the
politicians.
During that process of
reorganizing the State
Government, Moses became
interested in the parks of the
-State. His studies revealed

forty parks, it had no ade—
quate set-up to care for them
or to provide for future acquisition of land. He.
proposed a plan to Governor Al Smith providing
for eleven park districts in the State, each district
headed by and represented on a central council by
a man appointed by the Governor to serve without
pay. In 1924 this plan was adopted. Robert
Moses was made chairman of the Council. and a
$15,000,000 bond issue provided the means for
advancing the plan.

Robert Moses chose to represent Long Island,
which he considered the hub of the whole New
York park system. Three quarters of the total
population of New York State live within twenty
miles of New York City. This vast population is

289

290 ROBEKI' MOSESmPARK CREATOR EXTRAORDINARY

less than thirty miles away from the shores of
Long Island——the only beach land of any conse-
quence in the State. Ten millions of people with—
in easy reach of 475 miles of beach on Long
Island! And all you had to do was to build public
beaches on the Island, and then cut great high—
ways through New York City out to the rest of
the State! This was the dream and such was the
simple plan.' But when the plan was started the
fun began.

The land on Long Island was owned by old set-
tlers on their modest farms and by the wealthy
possessors of large estates. When it was said that
the opening of beaches and parks would allow the
“rabble” of New York City to trespass, Governor
Al Smith spoke up. “Rabble,” he said, “that’s
.me,” and he proceeded to back the Moses plan.
When confronted by one of the sporting mag-
nates with the argument that this was the only
real fox hunting country left 'in the State, and
that the hounds would lose the scent if the fox
had to cross a concrete roadway, Commissioner
Moses replied with a malicious glint in his eye,
“Perhaps we can-"build a tunnel under the road-
way for the fox;”' “

The land was secured by gift, by purchase and
by condemnation. Some of the leaders who first
opposed Bob Moses later generously donated
large plots of land. Those who held out had their
land condemned. The smaller land owners sold to
good advantage. Thus loose acres have been
turned into State parks, golf courses, tennis courts,
baseball diamonds, playgrounds, picnic grounds,
camping sites and beaches to which the city’s
millions could come.

Jones Beach, the prize of them all, is not only
a Moses masterpiece but a model for future build— .

ers to emulate. The beach
area cares for 300,000
people without congestion.
There are two bath houses
4,000 feet apart, connect—
ed by a board walk. The
bath houses have lockers
for approximately 15,000
bathers and there are two
miles of beautiful beach.
Both houses provide for
eating arrangements from
a thirty-five cent lunch to
a meal costing.$2.50. In
1937 four million people
came to the beach to swim,

"No man works alone on major public undertak-_
ings—at least not to a successful conclusion—
and thenI tool there are always in the back-
ground the all but forgotten forces of those
who first thought of the projects, accustomed
the public to expect them as ultimate reali-
tiesI so to speak, made the interference for
them, but for some reason or other could not
themselves quite make the goal. It is well to
admit that few large-scale improvements are
entirely new conceptions. We in our generation
picked them up where others dropped them
too discouraged, exhausted or disillusioned to
carry them further; and if there is any credit
due to us it is for the energy and vitality
we have brought with us, and for good judg-
ment in picking the occasion for victory."

sometimes 100,000 on a Sunday in the heat of
summer. Children enjoy kindergarten and play-
grounds. Families picnic on the beach. There
are dances, light operas, orchestras. The plant
cost $15,000,000 to construct and requires nearly
a half million to operate annually, but is a self-
SUpporting project.

In 1924 there was one State park on Long
Island, while in 1937 there were fourteen State
parks with 20,000 acres. In thirteen years sixty
miles of parkway have been built to connect these
areas with each other and with the city. Many of
the people who fought Robert Moses most bit-
terly in his initial efforts are now ready to‘share
the credit of what he has accomplished.

Ten years after Commissioner Moses t00k on
the New York State Council of Parks, Mayor
LaGuardia needed a man to clean up the park
situation in New York City. There were five
boroughs and five separate park commissioners
receiving a total of $62,000 a year. LaGuardia
offered Moses the job. “Fire the five commis-
sioners and I will take it on alone,” said Moses.
A salary of $10,000 was practically forced upon
him, the only paid position he has held. After
taking on the job he wrote in an early report:

"The parks were in a disgraceful condition.
Fences, playground equipment, iron benches, steel
bridges, piers and other iron work had been al-
lowed through neglect to rust. Walks, paths,
roadways, were acres of broken pavement. Lawn
areas were meadows of woods. Thousands of
trees were butchered or hacked down to provide
firewood for political favorites. There was not a
single park building in the city that did not need
immediate repairs and painting. Roofs leaked,
toilets were out of order, the zoos were firetraps.”

In tackling this great
job of rehabilitation and
construction, Commis—
sioner Moses discarded all
old organization. A new
plan coordinating the work
of the five boroughs was
devised. Departments of
Landscaping, Engineering
and Architecture rapidly
produced a vast array of
projects including menag-
eries, swimming pools,
playground buildings, golf
clubs, and fiagpoles. In
all constructiOn work the

ROBERT MOSES—PARK CREATOR EXTRAORDINARY 291

use of durable materials has been demanded.

When, in 1934, Robert Moses took over the five
boroughs of New York, there were 14,827 acres
of park in the whole city, about 7.28% of the

total area of 203,442. There were 119 play-
grounds, two swimming pools, seven golf courses
and 355 tennis courts. Two years later, park

acreage had been increased to 18,184 or 8.95% of‘

the total. There were 274 playgrounds, twelve
swimming pools, ten golf courses and 567 tennis
courts. The Astoria pool has accommodations for
6,200 bathers. Crotona, the largest, has a bath
house for 2,700 men and 1,600 women. These ten
pools cost approximately $1,000,000 each. They
are built for summer and winter use, with skating
on the pools and basketball in the locker rooms in
winter. In summer, before noon, children are
admitted free. Afternoon all Under fourteen years
pay ten cents, while those over fourteen years pay
twenty cents. On this basis the income has more
than covered the expenditures for upkeep.

.The dynamic personality of Robert Moses is
nowhere, better revealed than in his approach to
the problem of rebuilding the city’s parks and
playgrounds. He was offered the, job in Novem-
ber, 1933, and was appointed on January 19th,
1934. Within two months, with the help of en-
gineers, he made a survey of every park and park-
way of the city! He entered office with plans for
1,700 work relief projects calling for the labor of
75,000 men. He inherited 69,000 relief workers.
of whom 20,000 could not be found! He needed
500 supervisors who were technically trained.
When he met resistance to this appeal he threat—
ened to resign. \Vithin a week he had his money
and was ready to hire men. On Saturday he sent
out 1,300 telegrams to possible employees. On
Sunday afternoon the interviewing began and
kept up until Monday morning at five. By that
time 453 men had been approved and at sunrise
wires went out ordering them to report that
morning! “Not one was hired on account of per-
sonal or political influence.” Seventy thousand
men were soon engaged on the job.

The acquiring of the site for the Worlds Fair.

in New York in 1939 reads like a fairy tale. The
Fair authorities were scouring the environs of
New York City for a site; Moses was doing the
same thing for more park space. They got to—
gether and decided on Flushing Meadows, “a
stretch of 1,250 acres of smelly, boggy meadows,
a springy vegetable mat laid on a jelly marsh of
muck.” This area had to be acquired, filled in and

landscaped with shrubs and large trees for a Fair
site—and later a permanent park. The area was
so soft that an ordinary truck would be sucked
under if it stood still to unload. There were six
hundred owners.

On May Ist, 1936, the Board of Estimate voted
the money and authorized Mr. Moses to go ahead.
By the 15th of May he was in possession of the
property. (The courts were to decide later how
much should be paid!) Then came the problem
of filling. There was a mountain of ashes—thirty
years’ accumulation—ninety feet in height. With
specially designed trucks this mountain was spread
over the swamp twelve feet thick and given a coat
of top soil sucked from the Sound. Meantime,.
condemnation proceedings were going on. The
whole process, which ordinarily would have taken
many years, was cleared up within six months!
The filling, grading, and landscaping were done in
record time. Trees from the Adirondacks “grew”
overnight. Buildings began to rise, streets were
paved. Within a period of eighteen months the
\Vorlds Fair grounds were so far advanced that
they drew a crowd of 500,000 for a “preview” of
the mighty works of Moses.

Space will not permit the telling of the story of
the TriborOUgh Bridge which opened up a great
thoroughfare for upstate New York people to
Long Island and its beautiful new parks and
beaches, or the west side parkway which trans-
formed a dump heap owned by the New York
Central Railroad into a beautiful parkway of 132
acres along the Hudson which was then connected
with the former Westchester County Parkway to
the north by the construction of the Henry Hudson
bridge—a project which had been contemplated
for fifty years but was realized through the ef—
forts of Robert Moses.

Called Facist by those who see his fearless
cutting of red tape to achieve his ends; called
Socialist by those whose interests have,_,bgen sub-
ordinated to the common good; calledilJT’epubli-
can by those who know his politicalvancestry,
Robert Moses stands and his work stands as
monuments to integrity, free from political bias
or taint, and dedicated to the service of all of the

people.

“\V e must realize that in park work we are deal-;
ing with conservation in its broadest meaning,
Our job concerns not.pnly-iconservation of natural

resources, but conseryatiqnmf human resources.”
n—Com'ad L. W {rt/z.

Education Comes Alive

HERE IS NO growth
Twhich is not preceded

by skepticism, chaos.
and investigation. There is
little progress not impreg-
nated with vision and with
courage. Nor is there truth
which is unable to endure
analysis. Conclusions are
none the less dependable because they are tenta-
tive and subject to the change necessitated by new
evidence. Nor is the effort predicated by those
conclusions any less effective because it is ex-
perimental.

At a recent national conference of the Associa-
tion for Childhood Education two thousand men
and women met in an unusual- adventure. To the
layman called to active participation, the purpose
was evident from the beginning. In every study
class, at every chance meeting, in the straightfor-
ward and searching talks of the leaders at general
sessions, that purpose was clear—to put their own
procedures to a test. Now it is not unusual to find
experts questioning the results of programs other
than their own. But here were exponents of Pro-
gressive Education voicing a Warning lest their
slogans grow so familiar that they become “a pat-
tern jelling in the name of Progressive Education.”

The constant self analysis of which most of us
talk, but seldom practice, was here in action, as in
the Children’s Literature Class, where the ques-
tion was universal, “But what does the child think
about this book?” Their definite conclusion was
that “There is a great lack of the kind of litera-
ture for children that makes reading, as it should
be, a pleasurable experience.” There was constant
challenge of their own deep rooted theories, and a
frank teSting of their practices. One felt an un-
accustomed spread of intellectual curiosity and a
higher level of emotional adjustment and social
understanding than is found in many another of
the educational, sociological, or recreational con-
ferences which have of late filled
so large a part of the American
picture. With no time wasted on
polite inanities and a minimum
on rec0gnition of rank, there
was an educational goal in every
session of the conference. The

292

Educators meet to test the effective-
ness of their own procedures, and to
determine whether today's program would
stand the strain of a new tomorrow

By IVAH DEERING

We are indebted to Mrs. Deering.
author of "The Creative Home."
for this report_ot the national
conference of the Association for
Childhood Education held in Cin-
cinnatil Ohio. April l9-23I I938.

name “traveling univers-
ity” given by Miss Annie
Moore was well earned,
for great care was taken
that the personnel of the
fourteen study classes and .
four studio groups into
which the real work of the
week was divided, were
unchanged from day to day. Working on the
theory that tastes of intellectual food are too often
deceiving and that the tactics of the butterfly are
highly unsatisfactory in the intellectual field, the
program was planned to make it possible for an
individual to register ‘for two classes or one studio
group (which was experimental and in the nature
of laboratory work) and derive from them full
benefit.

Each of the classes was guided by a leader, co-
leader, and secretary, with a total of six hours for
group A and four and a half hours for B. They
were, in the main, informal discussion groups.
There was a total absence of that so-called “dis-
cussion” consisting of one lecture followed by other
set speeches dealing more or less with the original
presentation which the “discussion leaders” had
neither seen nor heard before the conference con-
vened. There was an unusual amount of active
participation by the registrants in each class, and
the group conclusions were significant and en-
couraging. Even Arithmetic was presented in
terms of social adjustments, while Curriculum was
offered as a possible improvement of democratic
living. Again and again, in classes other than
Parent Education, groups voiced the need for
“parent education of a more significant kind,”
which will include parent participation in pro-
grams, since there is little progress when the
methods of the school outstrip the understanding
of the parent. The ultimate elimination of all
awards, whether in the forms of grades, prizes or
ribbons, seemed almost a universal aim.

The Recreation Study Class
was a new venture, but attract-
ed a sincere, efficient and able

. group. Within this class, as in
the general sessions, the need
was stressed for a coordinated
play program which will carry

EDUCATION COMES ALIVE 293

over from school and playground and home into
the life of the child now and later. Even the par-
ent, the man too frequently forgotten except when
money is to be raised or some educational idea is
to be put over, was here accepted naturally as a
co—educator who has much to contribute to the
teacher and to the school. '

Some Group Conclusions

A few of the study class grOUp conclusions,
taken from personal notes or from the summaries
of secretaries, are worthy of consideration, since
they were in no case dictated by the leader, but
were syntheses of opinion of from 28 to 240
teachers of young children, and arrived at by the
informal discussion method: '

COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS

Teacher visiting in the homes is essential.
The Visiting Teacher is playing. a great part in
a growing understanding between home and
schooL

The path between the school and the home
must be kept open.

We must take the child where he ‘is, help
him to acquire knowledge of his own com—
munity, and from this knowledge help him to
build up his own evaluations.

F riendliness is more important than the dis-
cussion of difficulties.

Since community relationships are essentially
human relationships, the need is for individual
growth on the part of the teacher and child.

James: “If we looked more for opportuni-
ties, we would have fewer difficulties.”

TEACHER GROWTH
Determination to grow is important.
Procedures should change and grow better.

When we question and analyze our work, we
are likely to go into better and better action.

There must be time for parent contact, even
though it means lightening the load of the
teacher in order to have time for it.

Parent—teacher meetings are too often inane.

Students should go out and experience the
community.

Social planning is more important than ever
before.

EVALUATION

( of social needs and of specific behavior of
children) "

Teachers need to:
Formulate their objectives.

Formulate and describe concretely what these
objectives mean in terms of behavior involved.

Canvass all possibilities of securing evidences
of growth.

Find ways to record growth so that others
may interpret it.

Interpret behavior in a way to unify seem-
ingly conflicting elements.

Accept the goal of developing children who
are able to take their part in society.

Watch lest the broadening of interests en—
danger the continuity and depth of experience.

Do a better job in promoting an understand-
ing of human relations.

Study the vocabulary of young children to
determine what words and phrases have a mis-
leading emotional content. '

CHILDREN’S LITERATURE

We are not interested in grading books as
such.

Literature is the record of human speech.

Literature for children should be traditional
as well as contemporary.

It should have to do with the whole range
of the child’s experience.

There is need of using literature to build in-
ternational understanding.

Old folk tales should never be changed.

In the presentation of literature lies the suc-
cess or failure of its enjoyment.

The younger the child, the more close Should
be the words and the action.

Fanciful material in literature is more im-
portant than factual.

More poetry should be given, for pure en-
joyment.

Folk tales, as folk art, represent the life of
the people and are of prime importance to
young children.

UNITS OF WORK

There is need to examine our procedures to

see if they be outmoded, wasteful and in-
effectual.

The tensions of parents must be removed.

We must guard lest we bail out the boat in-
stead of turning the thing upside down to find
and mend 'the leak.

294 EDUCATION COMES ALIVE

\Ve must help the child develop attitudes of
cooperation rather than competition.

There is need to deve10p right attitudes to-
ward change.

There is great need for critical thinking
power.

More discrimination is needed by all who
work with children.

The words we use must be understandable.

PARENT EDUCATION

It is better to have friendly and cooperative
contacts with the parents before conflicts arise.

\Ve are seeking to benefit ourselves. \Ve
have much to learn. It is a mutual adjustment

that we are after.

The term parent education puts parents on
the defensive. Child study, designating a joint
project, is better.

Parents have been made to feel inferior and
insecure. r

Teachers benefit as much as parents from
joint activities.

The experience of parenthood would be help-
ful to teachers. In lieu of it, contact with par—
ent point of view is essential.

The parent must learn to make his interest
felt in the large social problems.

The need of the parent is to gain facility in
analyzing and solving his own problems.

There is a cathartic benefit to the individual
from joining in group discussion. The expres-
sion of his ideas is an important part of his
education.

RECREATION

The need is for guidance, not teaching.

It is the task of the adult to provide a suit-
able place, correct environment, and to see that
the child’s time is not over-filled with adult-like
activities so that there is no remaining time for
play.

The school ground should be used more fully
after school hours.

It is the responsibility of both parents and
teachers to help the child build his standards and
make his own selections in the group with
which he plays. Play is a part of life.

Many a young child of today has his time too
well filled with music lessons, concerts, home
work and dancing. He needs more time to play
and more time to be alone.

Children lose themselves most completely in
creative play.

There is great need for, enrichment of the
environment to provide the right stimuli for
the imitation which is natural to the little child.

The skills necessary for a full appreciation
and enjoyment of a recreational activity should
be taught only when the child realizes his need
of mastery of the skills involved. -

It is important that the recreational groups
be flexible in their programs and less “organi-
zation—minded.”

The greatest recreational problem is the edu-
cation of the adult community as to the_need
for and philOSOphyqoprlgx. '

Adults still are playing to their own advantage
in the recreation of children, showing them off,
instead of taking into consideration the indi-
vidual desires and needs of the child.

The child liIUSt be helped to determine for

himself what he needs. ,

The child is frequently pushed into too many

_ activities, but the .need is not fewer organiza-

tions but greater selectivity on the part of
teacher and parent.

There is no longer any place for the adult
educationally or recreationally who gets his
own needs satisfied at the expense of the de-
velopment and welfare of the child.

In all programs, the emotional adjustment of
the child is paramount.

It is time for teachers and recreation leaders
to consider play not as competition but as a
means of growth.

The games taught at school and on the play-
ground should carry over into the home.

Facing Facts

The need for sensitivity on the part of any
adult who deals with the child to what is signifi-
cant, has been felt not alone by teachers but by
parents, social workers and recreation leaders.
Too often the immediacy of the tree in the fore-
ground destroys the beauty of the view and im-
pairs the choice of the road. The complaint by a
parent which puts the leader on the defensive is
a sign of that initiative for which we profess to
look. It offers a point of friendly contact, ready
for constructive use.

The constant analysis and ability to face the
facts of their profession shown in this conference
gives to the layman faith in the ultimate personal
adjustment of the great body of teachers. It com—
mends itself also the consideration of all profes-
sional workers with children. The slow progress
in many social fields may be due not to the “dumb-
ness” of the public, but to our inability as workers
to face our own pettiness, lack of vision, and un-
social point of view, with a determination to do
something about it. ‘

Overlook No Living Thing

A presentation of conservation as "a way

of living day by day, and hour by hour."

By E. L. SCOVELL

Extension Forester
State of New Jersey

inter—dependence on all forms of
life, including humans, is what keeps
natUre in balance. No species of

servation, the stress is on soil
conservation, forest conserva-

l I SUALLY, when we consider con-

tion or wild life conservation, as wild life, be it bird, animal, insect,
though these fields were entirely separate. With fish, or reptile, can get and stay out of control for
the conservation of song birds and Howers, the a long period. As it increases in numbers its ene-
tendency is to stress their beauty rather than their mies likewise tend to increase in numbers, and in
economic value plus their beauty. We fail to im~ time bring it back into a natural balance. Man is
press the people with the all-important fact that the only exception. He appears to do so only be-
all nature is bound together by a fine network of cause he employs the plants, fish, animals and
dependence and inter—dependence, and that we birds to maintain an artificial balance of nature.
cannot disturb a part without disturbing all. In spite of man’s intelligence and abilities, he is

These are the things I feel should be stressed constantly forced to fight against the forces of
in our educational programs on conservation: nature. Often he fights a losing battle. Nature

First, that soil and climate are the staff of all takes the upper hand. His crops fail. Insects or
life on the earth. They are the basic things which animals destroy his crops and kill his live stock.
determine what forms of life can live in any But natLIre helps man more than she fights him.
region, county, township or individual property— Authorities tell us that if we removed the birds
from the smallest plant or insect to the largest from the earth, the inseCts would so increase in
animal or tree. numbers in ten years as to destroy every living

Second, that all birds, animals, insects, fish and plant, and cause all other life including man to die
reptiles are directly or indirectly of starvation. Remove all the ani-

dependent upon the plant life. Looking down “‘9 Mohawk Park mals from the earth and man
one cammt Change greatly the Nature Trail. Tulsa' Oklahoma WOUId face the same fate- Re-

plant life in any move all the in-
fecting the lives ‘ V a”: A; if, 1 "5:1,, {'4 .0 1 ~, would be the same.
of all living things  , . . 5.; i"      V The same is true
in the region. '| ‘. i?  9.214%)    ‘1‘" ii of the plant life.
Even the smallest , . ; ‘t ,‘ ‘ ; Mancannot escape
act may set in 1' , J a ' ‘ his dependence on

all forms of life.
Yet here is a point
that is rarely, if
ever, stressed in
programs on con-
servation. All too
often the stress is
placed on the good

operation a whole
series of changes
and adjustments
that may reach out
far beyond what
we would dream

possible.
Third, that this

 

295

296 OVERLOOK NO LIVING THING

and the bad plants, animals, birds and insects; on
the good and bad things persons can or should not
do. Who knows what is good or bad, friend or
foe? Under certain conditions a plant, animal,
bird, insect, fish or reptile may be an enemy.
Under other conditions it may be a real friend.

Fourth, many things that a land owner does
each day have some definite effect upon the wild
life of that region. When he erects a building,
lays a sidewalk, makes or cares for his lawn,
spades a garden plot, plants flowers or vegetables,
cuts down, prunes or plants a tree, plants, trims
or removes shrubs, drains or floods an area, sprays
his trees, shrubs or plants, picks his fiowers, har—
vests his crops, keeps a dog or cat, kills or be-
friends a bird or animal, and does many other
things, he harms or benefits the wild life of the
region.

Likewise, when one dumps
refuse in the woods or
streams, picks wild flowers,
digs trees, shrubs or other
plants, picks berries, nuts or
other fruits of plants, dis—
turbs the homes of birds or
animals, gathers pine cones,
or does many other things
that are done so commonly
by persons, he harms or
benefits the wild life of the
region.

The individual act may
seem insignificant—of no great importance—but
when it is multiplied by hundreds or thousands,
which is usually the case, the total effects are of
tremendous proportions. Let a thousand persons
in a state each pick ten quarts of berries and the
combined effects of these harvests might be as
great or greater than those of a hundred boys
spending an equal period of time shooting the
birds and animals which depend in part upon
these berries as staple foods. It is equally within
reason to believe that the killing of all the chest—
nut trees in the northeastern part of the United
States by the chestnut blight had far greater and
more far reaching effects upon our squirrel popu-
lation than all the hUnting of these small animals
since then. And more than 100,000 gray squirrels
are shot in New Jersey alone each year.

Fifth, conservation is a way of living day by
day, and hour by hour. It has to be a part of us.
It has to color and influence us in the countless
things, big and little which we do each day. Just

"Conservation is a task in which every per-
son can and must take an active part through
his or her government agencies and as an
individual. Regardless of how much power
and money we give the government agen-
cies. the bulk of the responsibility
must continue to rest on the shoulders of
the individual citizen. Unless we stop doing
the little and big things which we have
been in the habit of doing without any
regard for their effect upon the plants.
trees. birds. animals. insects. fish and rep-
tiles. we will continue to destroy taster
than the government

because we do not hunt, trap or fish we must not
think that we are conservationists. Many little
things we do may be as harmful. We as individ—
uals have it in our power to give conservation a
big boost. \Nhat we do, think and say will do
more to assist or to defeat real conservation than
all the legislation we can cause to be placed in our
statute books. There must be within us a small
voice that challenges our every act with the
thoughts, “What effect will this have upon the
plant life and wild life?” and “What would hap—
pen if thOUSal’ldS of other boys and girls. men and
women should do as I am about to do P”

Sixth, conservation is more a function of the
head than of the heart. It is a reasonable thing.
A conservation program based solely on senti—
ment is a wish—washy affair entirely lacking in
substance and without a
backbone. It is foolish and
very shortsighted to' urge
conservation purely on the
basis of being kind to all
creatures. Conservation is
and w°rk vital to man’s interests,
comfort, pleasure and very
existence. Conservation is
helping nature to help us.
It is protecting our proper—
ties, and making this a bet—
ter, more beautiful and hap-
pier place for ourselves and
the coming generations to
live in. It is the making of a wise truce with all
nature to the end that we and nature will work
together for the common good. It is an alliance
with nature so that we and the generations yet to
come can continually enjoy our great natural
resources.

Seventh, such an interpretation of conservatiOn
is all-inclusive. It means the full development of
our soils by preventing erosion, building up and
maintaining their fertility, and having each soil
type used for the purposes for which it is best
qualified. It means maintaining on each area a
balance between plant life and all other forms of
life. ,

To make such a program in conservation effec—
tive, we cannot overlook any species of living
thing from grass to trees, from the smallest insect
to the largest bird, from the smallest mouse to the
largest animal, from the tiny minnow to the
whale, from the lightest rainfall to the largest
body of water.

can conserve."

Aquatic Playgrounds in Long Beach

NE OF THE departments
0 under which recreational

activities are organized in
the Long Beach, California, Rec—
reation Commission, is the Aqua-
tic Division which has the follow-
ing objectives:

To assist in every possible way
the furtherance of water safety
principles in the minds of the _,
general public; to teach the pub- Come,
lic, particularly the children, as
much as possible concerning the
recreational possibilities of a large
number of aquatic activities; to
develop to the fullest possible ex-
tent the potential recreational us—'
ages of local waterways.

With these objectives in mind, a program was
inaugurated in the summer of 1929 featuring free
instruction in swimming, diving, life saving,
beach games and calisthenics on the hrst aquatic
playground at Alamitos Bay. Soon after the ini-
tiation of this program a similar one was opened
at Colorado Lagoon. From that time on the ef—
fort has been to enlarge and adapt the program
so as to develop as far as possible the different
types of aquatic recreation for which local water—
ways are suited. The program has grown to con-
siderable proportions, and a large measure of suc—
cess has been achieved in devising and operating
a program throughout the year and in avoiding to
some extent the heavy seasonal pressure of mid—

summer and the typical let—up of the winter
months.

Equipment and Facilities

To accomplish this a number of aquatic play-
grounds have been established, each of which in-
cludes a complete playground set-up for land
games such as volley ball, paddle tennis, croquet,
horseshoes, tether tennis, checkers and others. In
addition, the typical aquatic area includes develop-
ments designed to utilize to the best advantage the
potentialities of the particular area of water on
the shore line on which the playground is situated.
Among these are several varieties of boating.

The Colorado Lagoon provides one of the fin—
est model boat courses on the southern coast. On

  

Eastl West' North or South—water
sports always lead in popularity!

By
FRANK M. DAVENPORT

this area a model boat shop has been established
where the boys are taught to build and sail racing
models. Throughout the past seven years a strong
effort has been made to increase interest in model
boating, and the success of the effort is evident in
the large attendance in the shop building. Inter-
est has developed in the technicalities of sailing
and racing models, and it was largely through the
inHuence of this shop and sailing course and enthu-
siasm created by the instructors that the Southern
California Model Yachting Association was formed.
This association now includes a half dozen model
yacht grOUps and is doing a great deal to further
increase the popularity of model boating. It is
hoped that next year the National Model Yacht-
ing Association will meet at the Colorado Lagoon.

The Long Beach Marine Stadium was the
scene of the 1932 Olympic crew races. Being ad—
jacent to the Colorado Lagoon, it has practically
no land playground set-up and is primarily used
for shells and other types of crew boats and
motor boats. Through cooperation with the Board
of Education, physical education classes in row-
ing are conducted here. During the school vaca-
tion season similar classes are conducted on a
recreational basis for children and adults. These
activities have proved their value from both a
recreational and physical education point of view.
They are very popular, and it has been necessary
to restrict enrolment of participants to a point in
keeping with the equipment available. Junior high

297

298

school boys and girls are taught simple rowing,
seamanship and boat handling, using navy type
cutters or similar boats. The high school, junior
college and college students row in practice barges
and later in rowing shells. Naturally the racing
program is severely curtailed in order to afford a
properly balanced program for the different sex
and age groups.

In addition to providing an excellent rowing
course, the Marine Stadium serves as a very fine
course for outboard motor boats and probably
more of the Southern California outboard races
are held here under the auspices of the Southern
California Outboard Association than at any other
course in this part of the country.

The water area in the vicinity of Bay Shore
Playground at Alamitos Bay is best fitted for
small boat sailing, and it is in this area that the
sport is assisted and encouraged. There are two
clubs in the area, the Alamitos Bay Yacht Club
and the Leeway Sailing Club. The former, which
is assisted considerably by the Recreation Com-
mission, is a private yacht club; the latter is a
junior organization formed and sponsored by the
Commission. Within the past few months the
various small boat organizations. have been brought
together into the Small Boat Division of the
Southern California Yachting Association, which
has resulted in a combined fleet of over five hun—
dred boats.

The Rainbow Lagoon area, being located at the
central downtown beach, provides an excellent
spot for renting boats' of various kinds. Canoeing
is emphasized and class competitions are held
weekly. This lagoon also provides an excellent
setting for aquatic festivities, most important of
which is the annual Long Beach Water Sports
Carnival. The actual program of this carnival
comprises events which

AQUATIC PLAYGROUNDS IN LONG BEACH

the city is Tulare Playground. It is near the outer
harbor and although protected by a number of
breakwaters, offers ready access to the open sea.
This area, therefore, is popular with the owners
of larger boats, and here the Long Beach Yacht
Club has its anchorage. At Tulare Playground
the Commission organized and sponsors the Wind-
ward Sailing Club, membership in which mainly
includes the older boys and girls interested in
sailing, most of whom own boats more or less sea—
going and too large to be properly used in Ala-
mitos Bay.

Summarizing our program, the endeavor is to
show by means of instructional class groups the
recreational possibilities and safe usages of bodies
of water. This necessitates primarily instruction
in water safety through swimming and life saving
groups from which the children are encouraged to
branch out into other forms of aquatic activity,
either in or on the water. The assistance and in-
struction become less as the activity becomes more
complex and better organized—from the extremes
of the beginners’ class, in which each participant
must be closely watched and carefully supervised,
to the sailing, yachting and motor boating clubs
which are assisted through the furnishing of oc-
casional committees, surveys, equipment and
meeting places.

There may be some individuals among our read-
ers who do not know of the Swimming Badge Tests
——a graded series of water events for boys and girls
arranged for the National Recreation Association
by a national committee. If you have never seen
these tests we hope you will send for a copy. It
may be secured free of charge. Certificates and
emblems for boys and girls passing the tests may
be secured at a nominal charge. Another helpful
bulletin containing sug-

are planned and rehears—
ed at the various aquatic
playgrounds and later as—
sembled into a complete
show for the Water
Sports Carnival. The
1937 carnival included
182 separate events which
took place in six areas
laid out in Rainbow La-
goon, all operating simul-
taneously to make a three
hour show.

In the westerly part of

ANNUAL CLASS ATTENDANCE FOR 1936-37

(Not including short term or intermittent classes)

Calisthenics 47,472
Swimming  5|,l8l
LifeSaving....................... 8.|65
Diving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l8,497

Crew . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34,796

Canoem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.349

Sailing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l6.077

Model Boat Shop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l3,645

Total Class Attendance. . . . . l93.|82
Free Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _. . . . . . .2,6l5,798
Spectators . . . . . . . . . |,403,606

Gross Total Attendance. . . . .4,l50,586

gestions for your program
of water sports is‘ “Water
Games and Sports,” which
may be obtained from the
Association for twenty
cents. In it are to be
found suggestions for a
number of games adapted
for playing in the water,
novelty features and fun
provoking stunts.
will add interest and en—
joyment to the summer’s
activities. '

They ‘

l.
in

Wading Pools in New York City

By

JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of Recreation

Department of Parks
New York City

HE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS '
Tof New York City install-

ed the hrst large wading
pool about flfteen years ago in
Tompkins Square Park, Tenth
Street and Avenue A. The at-
tendance at this wading pool
during the first season of its
operation averaged approxi-
mately 1200 children each day.
The wading pool served to at-
tract the children from the neighboring streets
and gave them an excellent substitute for the
street hydrant and street shower.

Many years ago the Fire Department and the
Sanitation Department of New York City pro-
vided showers for the children on the streets. As
a result of these street showers it was found that
pedestrians made many protests, trafhc was tied
up, there was a possibility of, accidents from chil-
dren running in front of cars and trucks on the
slippery pavement, and the children would remain
under the showers longer than was advisable from
the health standpoint. For these reasons, it was
proposed by the writer that wading pools be lo-
cated in the public parks and playgrounds of New
York City.

After the experiment with the large wading
pool at Tompkins Square Park, another district
on the lower East Side wanted a wading pool for
their particular locality, and so a wading pool was
designed for Hamilton Fish Park. This pool,
which proved as successful as the first, was so
constructed that it could be used as a wading pool
for children during the. summer months and for

other activities throughout the remainder of the
year.

in  . - a. a. ..‘_--".

Courtesy Department of Parks, New York City

 

<
4., .
--~‘l h a ' ...,. .-_

One of the most popular facilities New
York City's parks and playgrounds have
to offer children between the ages of
three and nine years is the wading pool

0

So many thousands of children use the wading
pools of New York City that it is necessary to
check carefully on their sanitation. Tests of the
water are made regularly from the central office.
Samples of the water are sent to the laboratories
of the Department of Water Supply where they
are analyzed for the bacteria and B. Coli count.

Surrounding each wading pool maintained by
the Department of Parks is a fence. The children
are inspected by the playground directors prior to
entering the pools. There are also chlorinated
footbaths provided at entrances to these pOOlS.

Using the Pools for Other Sports

In some cases, facilities have been provided
where children might check their clothes but the
playground directors have found that in the ma-
jority of cases, the children come to the wading
pools in their bathing suits. After the wading pool

(Contimwd on page 317)
29‘.)

A Folk Festival in awaii '

AUI, one of the five major islands of the
Territory, was the scene of a beautiful pag-

eant presented under the title “The Festival
of Dances” and sponsored by the. Women’s and
Girls’ Recreation Department of the Alexander
House Community Association.

Previous to this event, dances of the Hawaiian
and Japanese groups had been held periodically
in various parts of the island—~Hawaiian dance
programs for special entertainments; Japanese
dances in celebration of the Japanese national and
religious festivals. The other national and racial
units had never investigated their own groups to
find what talent existed or could be developed.
Therefore this festival was the means by which
these groups revived old customs and dances of
their, native lands.

The first step in organizing the group was the
establishment of a Folk Festival Committee made
up of the key people of each racial and national
group represented in the social structure. In ad-
dition to this group, other members of the com-
munity who were interested in pageantry and fes-
tivals were added to the committee which repre-
sented not only a cross section of national groups,
but a cross section of professional pe0p1e. On the
committee were two Filipinos, a minister and his
wife; two Hawaiians, a public office holder and a
school teacher; two Koreans, iboth school teach-
ers; two Japanese, one a plantation worker and a
member of the board of supervisors, and a school
teacher; a Samoan plantation laborer; two Chi-
nese, a school teacher and a housewife; a super-
visor of schools, the Boy Scout director, head
worker of the association, and the director of the
Women’s and Girls’ Recreation Department.
There were seven men and eight women in the

group.

The committee members secured from the.

groups they represented the dance directors who
were to take charge of choosing and coaching the
dances. In some instances, the committee mem-
bers themselves served as directors.

There were no funds with which to carry out
this project, and it was decided in the committee
meetings to have each group a self-supporting
unit responsible for its own costuming, place of
meeting, transportation, and other expenses. The
dance directors volunteered their services, and no

300

Racial groups in Maui combine to ex-
tend international knowledge and good
will in a community situated between
the eastern and western civilizations

By MILDRED R. LEE
Director
Women's and Girls' Recreation Department
Alexander House Community Association
Wailuku. Maui Territory of Hawaii

one was paid for his part in the production. All
other expenses incurred in the project were to be
financed by receipts from the festival.

The director of the festival visited the various
groups once during practice periods and made
suggestions where necessary, keeping in mind how
each group was to {it into the whole.

About a month or two before the performance
was to take place chairmen were selected to take
charge of programs, tickets, ushers, publicity,
transportation, lighting and decorations. Assist-
ance for supplies and equipment was secured
from the six major industries on the island.
The police department cooperated by send-
ing officers to direct traffic and protect the
premises. The Girl Scouts gave their services as
ushers.

The committee members representing the racial
groups secured help from the community clubs to
which they belonged, such as the Club Filipina of
Maui, Hawaiian Women’s Club, Korean Club,
and the Chinese Ladies’ Aid Society. The num-
ber of pe0ple and organizations giving their ser-
vices made it a genuinely cooperative affair.

Such decorative greens as banana and papaia
trees, cocoanut tree fronds, bamboo and coffee
trees, ginger and hibiscus flowers, ferns and mari-
golds, formed the setting for the performance.
Overhead border lights and floods were installed
in the gymnasium.

The Program

Before any players came on the stage a dim
orange-red light was focused on the stage and

A FOLK FESTIVAL IN HAWAII 301

scenery. During this time the Hawaiian group
chorus, standing behind the scenery, song “Across
the Sea.” The lights gradually increased as the
group came on the stage and proceeded with their
program of Hawaiian songs and hula dances.
There were seven Hawaiian dancers and a chorus
of twenty-eight men and women. Hawaiian string
instruments were used including the melodious
steel guitar. The women wore their long colorful
holokus (long silk dresses with a- train introduced
by the early missionaries to take the place of the
grass and tapa skirts used by Hawaiian women).
All the men and women wore flower leis around
their necks made of carnations, roses, ginger How-
ers and mauna loa flowers.

This colorful group was followed by a program
of South Sea dances and singing put on by the
Samoan group dressed in tapa skirts with color-
ful tops. Tapa is a material made from tree bark
which was used by Samoans for clothing. The
men and women wore leis of maile leaves around
their necks and colorful flowers in their hair. The
tempo of their dances and songs was much faster
than that of the Hawaiian group. A colorful ad—
dition to this group were the two Samoan sword
dancers who gave a remarkable performance. One
of the dancers came from the Island of Hawaii
and paid his own transportation by boat to .be in
this performance. Thirteen young men and
women took part in this event.

The Chinese group pantomimed the ceremony
of an old man’s birthday. Each man and woman,
dressed in beautiful Chinese robes, laid presents
before the old man, according to the traditional
Chinese manner. While the presentation of gifts
took place, an old Chinese man played on the
moon harp. This was followed by a Chinese fan
dance by young girls,
while the rest of the

This group was a distinct contrast to the Portu-
guese group which followed with their “Charma-
rita” dance of typical Spanish rhythm. They
danced in their colorful peasant costumes with
their full skirts, bolero jackets and peasant ker-
chiefs. Five musicians accompanied them with
typical Portuguese string instruments. “Charma-
rita” was followed by “Fado” and “O Vera,”
which caught the fancy of the audience. There
were ten dancers.

After the Portuguese came forty—one Paia
schoolgirls of the fourth and fifth grades in the
Japanese dance “Sakura Ondo.” All these girls
were Hawaiian—born Japanese youngsters who
made a beautiful spectacle'as they circled around
in their varicolored Japanese kimonos. This group
filled the entire stage with their circle dance. A
Japanese record furnished the music. A Paia
school teacher (Hawaiian—born Japanese married
to a Hawaiian-born Chinese boy) coached the
dancers.

Then came two Japanese sword dancers accom-
panied by the shrill, weird voice of a Japanese
man interpretive—singer. Their dances were ar-
tistic and very effective. They wore long, black
robes with wide sashes and white bands around
their heads. One of these sword dancers wasua
man about fifty—five years of age who formerly
instructed sword dancers in Japan.

The next Japanese group was made up of girls
from ten to twelve years of age—Hawaiian-born
Japanese girls of Okinawa ancestry. Their dances
were typical province dances and were different
from the first group dance. The girls wore ki-
monos and different types of headdress, one type
of hat being large and flat with tassels hanging
down from the brim. The precision and execu—
tion of their dances
were excellent, and they

group in their lovely
costumes formed the
background. Twelve
men and women, six
girl dancers and three
musicians took part in
the Chinese perform-
ance. Since there were
no gorgeous Chinese
costumes available on
Maui, they were rented
from a Chinese store in

Honolulu on the Island
of Oahu.

"For centuries the peoples of the earth have min-
gled in peaceful appreciation of a common interest
in folk lore, dancing and music. . . . Histories tell us
that wars were forgotten, dread raids susPended.
differences patched up, temporarily at least, while
courtyard and castle staged enormous tournaments
and gala tolk pageants. Here in happy Hawaii, with
all the opportunity we have to learn more of the an-
cestral background of the many races which make up
our citizenry, we scarcely concern ourselves with the
matter. Little do we know of their legends and tra-
ditions; of their bright costumes kept for holiday or
fiesta; of their strange musical instruments and folk
dancing. . . . The Maui Folk Festival will no doubt
bring about a better understanding of the interest-
ing background of these varied races living in our
midst."—Extracts from editorial in Maui News.

won the hearts of the
audience with their fine
performance. There
were ten dancers. three
players and singers, in-
cluding a Shamisen
player.

The sixth group was
made up of ten high
school age girls in the
Korean scarf dance. All
of these girls were Ha-
waiian-born of Korean

(Continued on. page 317)

Science and Recreation

governors and presi-

dents, since the be-
ginning of the century
could have foreseen the
development of six indus—
tries based- on the tele-
phone, the automobile, the
airplane, the motion pic-
ture, rayon and the radio
and could have anticipated
their influence on society
and the changes they pre—
cipitated,” says the report
on Technical'Trends and
National Policy, “they
would have been in a much better position for
directing the policies of the state.” President
Roosevelt, in releasing the report stated, “More
than jobs and investments are affected by techni-
cal change: family, church, community, state and
all industry are subject to its influence.”

u I F THE LEGISLATORS,

Looking Backward

In order to visualize to some extent what the
future may hold, we need only think back a few
years over the development of some of these well-
accepted and utilized inventions. The motor car
has made possible recreational and vacation travel
that accounts for the greater part of the $6,000,-
000,000 average expenditure for recreation and
amusement during the past several years. The
amount spent is steadily increasing. The place the
automobile holds in the recreational life of people
of all classes is evidenced by the findings of the
Lynds in their restudy of Middletown after ten
years of boom and deep depression. The lower
income group, as well as others in higher brackets,
they say, were willing to give up almost anything
but the motor car. No matter what its age or
condition, “the car” was the last thing to be let go.

Motion picture theaters constitute about one-
third of all amusement places in the country and
account for $508,196,000, or about 70% of the
aggregate receipts of all amusement places. The
cost of production of movies in 1935 was 58%
over 1933 and well over the peak of 1929. Com-
monly-accepted facts indicate that motion pictures
affect the lives of a vast portion of our people

3i )2

The National Resources Board has releas-
ed a report called "Technological Trends
and National Policy." The committee pro-
ducing the volume states that it is the
first major attempt to show the kinds of
new inventions which may affect living
and working conditions in America in the
next ten to twenty-five years. We may
at once predict that any new invention
which will affect living and working con-
ditions will likewise affect recreation. If
we are wise planners as well as capable
administrators we will want to scan the
future with the scientist and inventor to
see what lies ahead 'for recreation.

during their leisure time.

It is estimated that there
are some 33,000,000 radios
in homes, cars and meet-
ing places in the nation.
Last year total sales were
approximately 7,000,000
units, with retail sales
reaching $315,000,000.

We need not detail the
influence of these three in-
ventions on the recreation
of the American pe0ple.
Let us think from there
to a few new gadgets that
are about to come.

 

And as for the Future

Two days ago the writer stood with an old man
looking at a range of beautiful Connecticut hills.
“The crests of those hills,” he said, “are all being
taken up by wealthy people who want private
landing fields for their planes. The private air-
plane is coming,” and with a twinkle in his eye,
“if I were young I’d go for it.”

The Committee states, “The changes in habits
of life that would result if the promise of steep
flight aircraft came to realization would be more
significant than those that will result from long
distance aviation. The consequences to aviation
and civilization from the power of landing and
taking off almost anywhere promise to be im-
mense. Almost all the globe would be open to air
trafhc, including all the places least accessible to
fast land or air transport, such as wilderness,
mountain tops, ships and city centers.” Steep
flight aircraft is in the experimental stage, but is
clearly on the way to practical use.

The electric eye can now see all that the human
eye can see and more. It can detect colors better
than man; it detects counterfeit money. When
joined with an electric tube it opens doors and
prevents possible accidents in elevators; it sorts
tin cans on a conveyor belt, regulates trafhc,
measures the density of smoke, times horse racing
and performs mathematical calculations! Such a
gadget will surely be seen working its way into
recreation further than timing horse racing.

SCIENCE AND RECREATION 303

Television, if and when widely developed, may
result in bringing theaters into millions of homes,
providing talking books as a boon to the blind, and
in revolutionary effects on libraries and all edu—
cational processes. The effects of the home thea-
ter on the movie house and the general home
habits of our people are incalculable.

I The influence of an invention was vividly dra-

matized the other day when a spokesman of the

Department of Labor stated that in a study of

330,000 wage earners’ families whose average in-

come was $26 a week, the only thing of which the

family had enough was silk stockings. The work-
er’s wife would sacrifice almost anything to have

“silk stockings”—for which she could thank the

discovery of rayon! Clothing makes a difference

as to where the worker’s wife will go and what
she will enjoy in her limited leisure time!

All of this leads me to the problem which gives
most of us concern.

Nystrom, in his book “Economics of Consump-
tion,” says that the main conditions for the enjoy-
ment of leisure are:

(1) Health and surplus energy—a fundamental
necessity for the enjoyment of leisure.

(2) Education and social background—which de-
termine the kind and degree of pleasure
derived.

(3) Freedom from worry.

(4) “Probably the most important condition of
the enjoyment of leisure-is the possession of
money wherewith the means of enjoyment
as they are understood may be obtained.
The outlay of money in the pursuit of lei-
sure activities is in rapidly increasing pro-
portion to the income received and stand-
ards of living enjoyed.”

'There is a vast section of our population who
do not enjoy more than one or two, if any, of
the conditions cited. A great part of our wage
earning class have an annual income too small to
allow for expenses beyond bare necessities ; they
have health, perhaps, but no excess of energy.
They are subject to constant worry of losing the
job or having an unexpected illness or accident
for which no reserve was laid aside.

Many Family Incomes Insufficient
for Recreation

The average family income for man and wife
and two children, the man having full time em-
ploymentwlifty weeks in a year with two weeks
vacation—would be $1,430. But many get less. In

New York City, one out of five families has less
than $1,200 a year; in Philadelphia, one in three;
in Pittsburgh, one in four; in Kansas City, one
out of four; in Nashua, N. H., one out of three
families has less than $1,200. That means, by and
large, that every third family of employed wage
earners in this country gets less than $1,200 a
year. And what do they do with it? Food takes
one-third; rent one-fifth. Fuel, light and other
household supplies fifteen percent; clothing six-
teen percent. That leaves $192 of- the $1,200
for education, transportation to and from work,
recreation, doctors’ bills and silk stockings!

But how do workers buy a car? Does not
every American workman have a car? The facts
are that in a large western industrial city it was
found, in studying a period of one year, that only
fifteen out of every hundred families bought a
car. Twelve of these bought used cars and three
bought new ones. In one of our eastern cities,
four out of every hundred families of employed
wage earners bought a car in the course of the
twelve months covered, three buying used cars
and one a new car.

The investigation showed that about one—third
of the wage earners’ families find their income in-
sufficient to meet the requirements of living. In
short, it is only in the higher brackets of income
among wage earners (i.e. $30, $40, $50 a week)
“that they can afford frequent movies, a car,
clothing that meets the needs of the weather, and at
the same time has an element of style in it. Even
at these levels, after 'taking care of the family
needs for food, clothing and housing, it is only
infrequently that the amount left over for the
purchase of other things, such as medical care,
education, recreation, is equal to as much as a
third of the total family income.”

Influence of Technological Developments

Technological development, therefore, poses
two problems for those who are concerned with
recreation. On the one hand, we see the marked
effect 'of auto, airplane, movie, radio and other
commercial deve10pments on the general social
welfare of the people in the middle and upper
economic levels. All of the suggested new inven-
tions call for the expenditure of money. Home
theaters will cost more probably than present-day

radios and common use of airplanes will for some
time cost more than autos. For those who have

' . . . .
money the new inventions wrll mean much in
enlarging the recreational horizon of large sec-

30-1 SCIENCE AND RECREATION

tions of the population. This development is to
be welcomed, but it will set up some neat problems
for those who plan public recreation facilities in
the future.

The other side of the picture does not look so
bright. Technology is credited now with a goodly
proportion of the millions of unemployed in the
country. The popular use of the electric eye and
the mechanical cotton pickers carries a threat of
further widespread unemployment which social
workers fear to contemplate.

The Challenge to Public Recreation

Add to these millions of actual and possible
unemployed the other millions whose income does
not allow for the use of mechanical or commercial
recreation and we have a vast group of people
whose recreation needs are partly caused by the
advances of science and invention, but whose en-
joyment of recreation will have to be outside the
mechanical and commercial field, except perhaps
for occasional movies. Herein lies the real chal-
lenge to public recreation. Drab life, health haz-
ards. delinquency areas all crowd in upon those
whose lives are on a bare subsistence level.

Public recreation has done much for these peo-
ple with its parks and playgrounds, but there is
much yet to do. One needs only to look over the
facilities of many cities to be convinced of that.
“Beautiful golf courses
on the rolling hills out-
side the city are not for
them. Many parks and
beaches are denied them
because of lack of cost
of transportation. In
city after city, the play—
grounds are found to
be smaller, with less
landscaping, poorer
equipment and a less
effective leadership in
the congested ‘over the

Public recreationI with
playgrounds, parks and
swimming pools,hasdone
much. but much remains
to be accomplished

Courtesy Architectural Record, June, 1937

track’ areas. The argument is advanced that these
people will not take care of good equipment and
landscape values.” This leaves one cold when he
sees in other cities those same typical areas under
good leadership and with carefully kept grounds
and equipment.

So technology means one thing to the upper
economic levels and quite another to those who .
are on a bare subsistance level or whose person-
alities have been submerged in the nondescript
sea of the unemployed. The wise recreation
leader, the commissioner or executive will in-
creasingly study the trends of scientific invention
as it affects both of these groups.

“We are appreciative of the blessings of our in—
dustrial age but will not be misled into accepting
material comforts in exchange for our eternal
souls. \Ve know full well the price we pay for
our mechanized existence and gladly pay it, for
the machine has released us from much debasing
drudgery and has given us a measure of leisure
unheard and unthought of in bygone days. This
leisure we possess as the supreme gain of a man-
kind unchained. And there.we stand, with fet—
ters broken—at once blessed and cursed—for as

yet we do not know what to do with our new-
found freedom.”—Richard Lieber.

 

Photo by Ncw York City Park Departxcut

You Asked for It!

Question: Please give us suggestions for one
or two very simple handcraft articles which re-
quire little in the way of equipment and supplies
but which will be a little “different.”

Answer: Does the walnut or hickory nut slip,
causing you to crack your fingers instead? Then
make yourself a nut holder by cutting a hole about
the size of a dollar in an inch board about six
inches square. Put the nut in the hole and crack.
It will not skid or bounce away. Neither will the
nut be smashed into a shelly paste. For smaller
nuts the hole should be CUt of smaller size in a
thinner board.

Your own marble mill? A clever boy in the,

Ozarks showed me how he made his own marbles.
Perhaps you, too, would enjoy trying your hand
at making marbles.

In hard rock along the edges of a stream or a
spring of water find a round hole into which a
rivulet constantly pours. Select a chunk of sand-
stone or other somewhat soft rock, one to two
inches thick. Drop it into the small pool of water.
The constant churning of the rivulet will keep the
chunk turning. This wears it into a round shape,
making a good marble for all except “taws.”
These are made of harder rock and require a
much longer stay in the pool. If you do not live
near a stream, you can use the drip in rock garden
pools as a marble mill.—From f. C. Baker, Peru,

Nebraska.

Question: What kind of an athletic program
can be arranged for boys between the ages of
eight and twelve which will give them some train-
ing in the major sports and will permit all boys
desirous of engaging in competition an oppor-
tunity to take‘ part?

Answer: Pee Wee teams, so-called, may be the
answer to your program as it was to omsu In
1928, when I was appointed director of boys’
work at the Catholic Neighborhood House in the
crowded Ironbound District of Newark, New
Jersey, I had my first opportunity to put into prac-
tice some of the ideas which I had long had in
mind for such a program. We had an improvised
gymnasium which had been made from two
rooms. In one room the ceiling was two feet
higher than the other, with the result that it was
necessary to place one basket eight feet high and

the other nine feet high. (The regulation height
of ten feet would have been too close to the ceil-
ing.) \Ve organized the boys into clubs, and after
a few lessons in the fundamentals of basketball a
Pee Wee League was organized with most suc-
cessful results. The program grew so rapidly that
in two years we had more teams than could be ac-
commodated. Through an arrangement with the
Newark Board of Education we secured the use
of the Hawkins Street school gymnasium. We
noticed that here fewer points were scored be-
cause of a larger court and higher baskets. Our
experience has led us to recommend smaller
courts, lighter and smaller balls, and lower bas-
kets if possible and, because of the age and physi-
cal capacity of the boys, shorter playing periods.

We conducted a hunt for smaller scale balls
which was successful except in the case of foot—
ball. (I have just found a small football of a
good grade skin which meets the needs.) Pee
Wee track and field meets and softball, baseball,
tOUCh football, soccer and basketball leagues were
organized at each center. The play periods were
put in charge of the boys themselves, and it was
our experience that giving them responsibility at
such an early age instills proper ideas of sports
and sportsmanship.

The various games, we found, compose an ex-
cellent intra-curricular activity for the boys. It
gives them a feeling of belonging to a group or
team, and the skill developed carries over to the
higher grades. Although that has not been our
objective, we have discovered many fine athletes

in our league.

At the west Side High Playfield we divide our
large court into two, playing across court, and two
games are played at the same time. The referees
selected from our midget leagues have a whistle
of a different tone from the others. For each
game soccer balls are used instead of regulation
basketballs, and the playing time is sixteen min-
utes for a full game. Referees are instructed to
drop some of the restrictions of the game Until the
boys have become adapted to it.

More than 1,100 players participated in the
Board of Education recreation basketball leagues
held during the past winter and 106 teams played
in fifteen different leagues. There were 610 league

(Continued on page 318)

OJ
0
U1

E20833 .373 +33 +0 {on 2:. cm mmsoI fem 9:.

38m 3?: by 5.6 332.290

 

‘5‘  I

\X/ORLD AT PLAY

Thirty Years of
Camping

THE Emma Kaufmann Camp at
Harmony, Pennsylvania, main-
tained by the Emma Farm Asso-
ciation of which Sidney A. Tel-
ler is Director, this year cele—
brated its thirtieth anniversary.
Much publicity was given the
event, and newspapers and week-
lies paid tribute to the work of
the camp. The cartoon which is
reproduced here attracted a great
deal of attention.

In a Community of
5,500 People

 

“SEVENTY—FIVE acre city
park; much in virgin state, arti-
ficial spring fed lake, modern
bath house and bathing beach,
large ten acre athletic field, mu-
nicipal airport, nine hole sporty
golf course, ten beautifully wood-
ed lakes for fishing and other rec-
reation within a few miles of the
city.” Thus the fourth annual
report of West Bend, Wisconsin,
summarizes the park and recrea-
tion facilities offered by this com-
munity of about 5,500 people.
Several years ago the city decided to develop a

park. This was dOne at a cost of approximately
$100,000, about fifty per cent of which came from
tax funds; the remainder from Federal allotment.

The park, with its natural setting, is a half mile
wide and two miles in depth. One of its features
is a swimming pool fed by natural springs. Chil-
dren may enjoy bath house privileges for a ten
cent fee. Thousands of adults also use the pool
which is cared for by one chief guard and ten
volunteer assistants who act as life guards and
take care of the bath house. There is one swim-
ming instructor who gives lessons to about two
hundred individuals each summer. Free swim-

4- SUMMER CAMP: m cmuonen '-

ABROAD

t7,
/ “he? I
-.-/ HEP '

 

M
,%/‘é\fé:56€

30'4- ANNIVERSARY a“
TM: EMMA Fm
A95°QA110N —-——-

\“

Reproduced by pcrnu'ssion of Pittsburgh Post-Gasettc, published June II, I938

ming lessons are offered the children. (See page
306 for picture of the bath house.)

In 1937 the decision was made to expand the
recreation program by adding playground facili-
ties and activities. Through the Board of Edu-
cation an active athletic program is in operation
including sports of all kinds. The high school
track includes 25 acres.

THE Recreation Di-
vision of the Chicago
Park District has is—
sued a folder giving a
brief description of each of the twenty-four book-
lets now available in its “Modern Recreation

307

The Modern Recreation
Series of Booklets

 

308 WORLD A T PLA Y

"Series." The subjects covered are: Archery;
Animated Toys; Honeycomb Weaving; \Vhittl-
ing; \Vood Inlay; Leathercraft. Games and Game-
boards; Grotesque Heads; Organizing and Ad-
ministering Camera Clubs; Manual for Caddies;
Chess; Checker Problems and Puzzles; Flower-
ing Perennials for the Home Garden; You Can
Have a Good Lawn; Diving; Badminton; Winter
Activities; Christmas Tree Ornaments; Simple
Puppets; Hooked Rugs; Boondoggling; Simple
Weaving; Baseball and Basketry. \Nith the ex-
ception of Archery, Diving, Badminton, Baseball
and Winter Activities, which are listed at 3 5 cents,
the cost of each booklet is 25 cents.

Recreation workers, club leaders, camp direct-
ors and others conducting activities in the recrea-
tion field will .find these booklets very valuable.
Orders and communications should be addressed
to the Recreation Division of the Chicago Park
District. 57th and Cottage Grove Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.

The Child Explores His World—There is
now available thrOUgh the Division of Visual Ex-
periment, Harmon Foundation, Inc., a motion
picture, “The Child Explores His World.-” which
is based on the work of the Brooklyn Children’s
Museum. The picture shows that any community
may create a children’s museum to help the child
enjoy the larger wor’ld of rocks and earth where
plants and animals grow and men build cities. The
film may be rented at $3.00 per showing or by the
week at three times the single rate. Reference
outlines to aid leaders in planning programs may
also be secured at a nominal charge. The film
represents thirty minutes of child life in a two-
reel, 16 millimeter, silent film. Further informa-
tion may be secured from the Harmon Founda-
tion, I40 Nassau Street, New York City.

Puppetry in San Francisco—The San Fran-
cisco, California, Recreation Department has a
puppet show trailer known as “Joe Michelangelo”
which can be hooked to the back of a machine
and transported with all its equipment from play-
ground to playground. One side of the trailer has
a puppet stage where the figures are operated by
hand; the other side has a stage for marionettes
operated by strings. The trailer is equipped with
a new loud speaker and has a victrola attachment
which is used for dances and marches. Play-

1

ground children are taught the manipulation of
the puppets as well as the plays, which are usually
given on Tuesdays and Thursdays during the
summer at various playgrounds.

Dads’ Clubs at Playgrounds-The North-
side Dads’ Club at Alton, Illinois, has raised ap-
proximately $I,700 to purchase a five—acre tract
of land and present it to the city. Through a
VVPA project the area is being developed for
playground purposes. Not to be outdone, the
\Vater Tower Dads’ Club purchased two lots ad-
joining the city softball area and constructed per-
manent bleachers. A small charge is asked of
those occupying bleacher seats, the receipts to be
used to defray expenses and improve the grounds.

Recreation Centers for London School Chil-
dren—The correspondent of the Christian Science
Monitor states that every London child between
the ages of ten and fifteen years not otherwise
provided with healthful playing space is to be
given one day a week in the Open country near
the metropolis. Combined play and teaching cen-
ters are being set up on sites which are being ac-
quired for this purpose so that children from
crowded streets may attend classes in the fresh air.

Lakewood’s Play Schools—-— The Board of
Education of Lakewood, Ohio, is conducting ten
play schools this summer open to all children hav—
ing one semester of kindergarten through the
fourth grade. Three are located on city property,
the remainder on school property. In addition,
the high school swimming pool is used, a charge
of ten cents being made. The program, which is
“informal and varied, includes crafts, games, danc-
ing, music, a story hour, picnics, walks, dramatics,
nature study and swimming. A fee of 25 cents is
required to help pay for arts and crafts materials.
T he. paid staff at the centers is supplemented by
volunteers from high school boys and girls. The
play schools are open for six weeks.

Detroit’s Annual Women’s Demonstration—
F or sixteen years the Detroit, Michigan, Recrea-
tion Department. has presented a demonstration of
its activities for women, and each year the event
has become more popular. This year the demon-
stration, which was directed by Lottie A. Colli-
gan, took the form of a pageant of popular holi-
days in which 1,600 girls and women took part.

WORLD AT PLAY 309

There-were fifty-two costume groups, forty-one
classes contributing to the demonstration of calis-
thenics, six new episodes presenting in picture the
origin of the holidays celebrated in America, and
a different Hoor pattern was brought into use for
each one. Sixteen thousand enthusiastic specta-
tors watched the pageant.

More About Recreation in Chicago—In the
July issue of RECREATION mention was made of
Volume I of the Chicago Recreation Survey which

is devoted to a report of the study‘of public rec—
reation facilities and activities. Volume II, which
is now available, contains a report of the various
forms of commercial amusement from movies to
ballrooms and dancing schools. It shows that
Chicago’s total investment in the various forms of
commercialized recreation is somewhere between
$700,000,000 and $I,ooo,ooo,ooo, the average an-
nual per capita expenditure for these forms of
recreation being $80. Volume III of the Survey,
now in process of publication, will deal with the
private recreation agencies such as settlement
houses, boys’ and girls’ clubs and churches. The
fourth volume will break down the information on
public commercial and private recreation facilities
according to the city’s seventy-live local communi-
ties. Volume V will evaluate the findings and
present the recommendations of the Chicago Rec-
reation Commission for future action and develop-
ment based on the facts of the Survey. This vol-
ume will probably be issued in the fall of 1938.

Copies of Volumes I and II, now available, may
be secured from the office of the Chicago Recrea-
tion Commission, 1634 Burnham Building, Chi-
cago, Illinois, at $1.00 each.

In Northeastern North Dakota—Grafton is
an incorporated city of 3,000 inhabitants in North-
eastern North Dakota, flfty miles from the Canad-
ian boundary. In January the community em-
ployed a recreation director for four months and
at the end of that period re-employed him for
three additional months. It is now hoped that the
work will be placed on ,a year-round basis. A
two-room recreation center is being maintained in
the school building. The chairman of the com-
mittee in charge of the program writes that her
group knows of no other city or town in North
Dakota with a paid director of recreation, even
on a part-time basis.

 

HOW TO ORGANIZE .
8ND PROMOTE A ‘
HORSESHOE CLUB ]

   
 

  

EAGLE
RIN GER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

      

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave" Duluth. Minn.

Activities in New York City—The Depart-
ment of Parks is conducting community singing
this summer on Saturday and Sunday afternoons
at a number of different locations throughout the
city. The singing at \Nashington Square Park on
Sunday afternoon, July 10th, was so successful

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Gorgeous Wood Bead I
bags, belts, bracelets,
clips, necklaces, etc., are
easy to make at home.
We furnish complete 32
page booklet of instruc-
tions and patterns, best I
quality beads and sup- }: .~

P“°’- 1‘“ f‘“i“"i“3 WALC68EA6 CO.-nm f

and inex ensive tool .
i- _ _F,’_ _ I; _ 37 w. 37th 5:. new roux. m.

D Send FREE literature describing 5_WAI.CO leadcrafh. R_ 73 I
I D I enclose 1°C for 32 page wuco Wood lead Booklet of mama I

I instructions and designs. also  Wood lead sampiee. I
I NAME ............................................................. .. :
I ADDRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

cm .................................. Hams ..................... .- |

310 IVORLD AT PLA Y

Recreation Congress Reminder

PLACE— Pittsburgh. Pa.
JTIME— October; 3-7
/’ HEADQUARTERS—William Penn Hotel

Public oliicials—-volunteers—professional workers
—over I 000 will be present.

Eight general sessions—noted speakers. ,

Discussion meetings on twenty-four vital problems
in community recreation.

Daily series of new motion picture films dealing
with recreation.

Special luncheon for girls’ and women's workers.
Exhibits of recreation materials and supplies.
Opportunities for consultation on special problems.
Conferences and comradeship with fellow workers.
Tour of Pittsburgh.

Special dramatic "production.

Music—folk dancing—games.

Keep in touch. Be a part of this vital“ thinking,
constructive planning and cooperative action.

 

 

that it was decided to extend the activity to all
boroughs.

The- Department of Parks has also announced
the first photographic contest to be held under its
sponsorship, with the Park Association of New
York City cooperating in the project. The sub-
ject is “Youth and Age in Our City Parks and
Playgrounds.” Class A will present spring and
summer activities; Class B, fall and winter. To
be admitted to the contest, all pictures must have
been taken during 1938 before September 10th
inparks, parkways, pools, beaches or playgrounds
under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Parks.

Public Parks and Playgrounds Tennis
Championships—The Sixteenth Annual Na-
tional Public Parks and Playgrounds Tennis
Championships, sponsored by the National Public
Parks and Playgrounds Tennis Association and
sanctioned by the U. S. Lawn Tennis Association,
“ill be held on August 15th to ZIst, 1938, at Los
Angeles, California. Public court tennis players

throughout the U. S. are eligible to participate.
Local and sectional tournaments will be held for
qualification of participants for the national tour-
nament. The national finals at Los Angeles will
be conducted by the Los Angeles Municipal Ten—
nis Association of the Department of Playground
and Recreation. Further details may be secured
from Dudley C. Shumway, Director of Municipal
Sports, Department of Playground and Recrea-
tion, City Hall, Los Angeles, California.

The Parks of Pueblo—Attendance figures
compiled by the Park Department of Pueblo,
Colorado, show a daily attendance at the city park
zoo, animal pits and bird house of 1,000 individ—
uals during the summer months. At the dance
pavilion there were four community parties a
week, while 500 people attended the softball
games played at the park at night. Skeet, tennis,
horseshoe and shuffleboard courts were in con-
tinuous use, while summer participation at the
recently constructed 18—hole golf course ran well
into the hundreds. In Mineral Palace and other
Pueblo parks attendance was equally large. Moun-
tain Park near Pueblo, which is operated by the
city officials, drew many out-of-state visitors. A
count taken over 61 days during the busiest part
of the vacation season showed a total attendance
of 47,000 people.

Trends in Public Recreation
(Continued from page 273)

each of these has enlarged its program during
the past decade. *

In addition to these permanent government
agencies, there are thirty-two other bureaus or
offices of the Federal Government, including the
emergency group, engaged in some form of rec-
reation service. A joint committee has been form—
ed representing all of these various national agen-
cies interested in recreation. This committee has
reported to the President including recommenda-
tions for the further development and coordina-
tion of recreation.

The emergency agencies of the Federal Gov-
ernment, including the WPA, the NYA and the
Resettlement Administration, have spent approxi—
mately one billion dollars directly or indirectly for

 

* (1) National Park Service; (2) United States Forestry Service,
Department of Agriculture; (3) Biological Survey, Depart-
ment of Agriculture; (4) Agricultural and Home Economics
Division, Department of Agriculture; (5) Office of Education,
Department of the Interior.—Quoted from The Annals, No-
vember, l937-—Article by E. C. Lindeman.

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION 311

recreation purposes. At one time there were
49,000 persons employed by the Recreation Di-
vision of the \VPA and a similar number by the
NYA. Over 20,000 citizens have served on local
recreation committees under the auspices of the
Recreation Division of the WPA. The close re-
lationship of the Federal Government to local
public recreation systems can be understood in
part when one realizes that 3,467 social and rec-
reational buildings costing $24, 529,856 (of which
the Government paid 73.1%) have been con-
structed in all parts of the country as facilities
for local recreation use.

Problems

The trends in recreation are upward. A grow-
ing movement, however, is faced With problems
of serious nature. These problems of municipal
recreation center about finance, quality personnel,
political influence, and the difficulties of securing
adequate lay support. In many places the lack of
public conviction regarding the necessity of recre-
ation for all of the people is the greatest obstacle
to progress.

Bibliography

Americans at Play, Dr. Jesse S.. Steiner. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York City.

Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
Science, The, November, 1937, 3457 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia, Pa.:

(a) The Prospect for Youth: Youth and Leisure,
E. C. Lindeman, page 59.

(b) The Gottemunent'k Responsibility for Youth,
Aubrey Williams, page 119.

Economic Aspects of Recreation, Julius \Veinberger.
“Harvard Business Review,” Summer, 1937. Avail-
able through McGraw-Hill Book Company.

Egect of the Depression on Parks and Recreation, The,
L. H. \Veir. “Public Management,” August, 1934,
850 East 58th Street, Chicago, Ill.

Municipal and County Parks in the United States, 1925-
1926, 1930 and 1935. U. S. Government Printing
Ofi‘ice, Washington, D. C.

Organisation of Municipal Recreation Programs. Result
of a study in 1937. National Recreation Association.
Bulletin 4001.

Proceedings of the Twenty-Second National Recreation
Congress, 1937. National Recreation Association.

Recent Trends in Local Governmental Control of Year—
Round Recreation. Reprinted from RECREATION for
January, 1938, National Recreation Association.

Research Memorandum on Recreation in the Depression,

Jesse F. Steiner. Social Science Research Council,
230 Park Avenue, New York City.

Social l/l/ork Year Book, 1937, 1938. Section on Recrea-
tion. Russell Sage Foundation, New York City.
Standards of Training, Experience and Compensation for

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line oi
Equipment for all Sports , I

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

Community Recreation Work. National Recreation
Association. ‘
Year Books. National Recreation Association.

Playground Circus Days
(Continued from page 274)
Criticisms of the last circus, as well as construc-

tive suggestions for the next, are received. In-
novations are welcomed. Committees are formed
which accept the responsibility for different parts
of the circus. Among the most important com-
mittees are Grounds and Property, Costumes,
Decorations, Animals and Cages, Clowns, Music,
Tumbling and Pyramids, Dancing. “'ild \«Vest
Show, Side ShOWs, and Punch and Judy. A 'di-
rector is elected who receives weekly reports of
the progress and passes them on to the general
office.

From April on the whole scene changes at the
playgrounds. Interest groups are centered around
circus needs. The staff is as engrossed as the
children in preparations for the big’event.

At Martin Center, about twenty boys and girls
spent weeks constructing what they called a “Pol-
ish Village,” though in reality it is only one little

312 SWIMMING STUNTS

thatched house with a yard and a mural painting
for the background that depicted more houses and
landscape typical of the Polish scene.- The well
in the foreground, the pottery, and other bits of
native craft add atmosphere; most alluring of all

were the'little Polish children in their native cos—-

tumes. Polish parents-advised and helped in as-
sembling it at the circus grounds. They agree that
the picture from the National Geographic for
May, which gave the inspiration for the mural,
is just like the Old country. The children were
pleased and proud that their parents could help

in the circus.

The staff member in. charge of Indian lore is a “

specialist with a wealth of knowledge, and his
time is divided between the playgrounds. Small
boys make Indian costumes, including feather
headdresses, beaded belts and similar articles. In-
dian crafts come to the fore—pottery and weav-
ing. By circus day these boys have become so
imbued with Indian atmosphere and spirit that
their performance is a bit of startling realism.

The early settlers must make their covered
wagons, their pioneer costumes, and learn the cus—
toms of that period, while cowboys are practicing
lariat throwing and emulating the Tekas Ranger.

The Indians, settlers, and cowboys are all fea-
tures of the Wild West Show, which is only one
small part of the whole. There are folk dances"-
old and some newly created ones—clowns and
acrobatic acts, wild animals, including a life-size
elephant constructed of wire and canvas growing
more lifelike under the paint brushes of small
boys until they exclaim with awe at their own
handiwork, “He’s almost real!”

And there are side shows where children from
the different playgrounds vie with each other in
presenting the most amazing freaks and curiosi-
ties. An octopus made from old inner tubes and
a bicycle pump caused many shudders by its life-
like gyrations.

Altogether it is a very rollicking affair and an
important event in the lives of the neighborhood
children and their parents. In addition, it directs
the interest of children into many new channels,
stimulates study and research, and requires the
finest kind of team work.

Swimming Stunts
(Continued from page 277)

side, double knees up to chest and both turn at
the same time by pulling away from each other

with hands and dUCking heads, rolling shoulder to

Ishoulder and hip to hip.-

Back Somersault. Draw the knees sharply up to
the 'chest and snap the head backward, exhaling
slightly to keep the nostrils clear of water. At the
same time, the arms turn the body either by
reaching up behind the head and pushing the
water forward, or by reversing the movement of
_the forward somersault and circling the arms
from a forward position, downward, backward

and Upward.

Front Somersault. Take a deep breath. Draw

.the knees to chest, duck head and with arms at
right angles to the body, palms down, whip the

body over by swinging the arms back, then down,
and forward and upward in a circle several times.
Keep the legs tucked until somersault is com-
pleted. It is possible-to do several in one breath.

Steamboat. On face, scull forward with hands
below hips, thrashing the water with a sharp
crawl kick, and tooting like a tug.

Sunfish. (Goldfish, Bluegill). Lie on side used
for side stroke. Extend arm overhead, the other
straight behind. Swim, using scissor kick while
splashing the surface of the water by fluttering
movement of both hands. Smile sunnily.

Swimming with Both Hands and Feet Tied. With
the hands and feet'both tied, this 'is a slow pro-
cedure. It looks difficult, but is quite simple.
Hands may be tied behind the back or to the
body," in which case the performer swims 0n the
back, propelling the body by bending the legs and
pushing the water with the shins and tops of the
feet. If the hands are tied in front the performer
may swim on the side, scooping the water with the
tied hands at the same time that she kicks. Or on
the chest, the performer may swim pulling the
water and kicking at the same time. Be sure that
there is an assistant to help the performer at all
times. '

Tandem Simple Back Stroke and Breast Stroke.
Partners face each other. Number I lies on her
back, hooking her feet in the armpits of her part-
ner, knees stiff. Number 2 swims breast stroke.
Number I uses arms on her back in unison with
her partner’s arms.

Treading Water. Treading water is supporting
the body in the water in a perpendicular position
without the use of the arms. In elementary tread-
ing the hands may be used to assist. The feet may
be used in a scissor, frog, crawl or spiral move—

‘O.

CORNELIA BUILDS A SOCIAL CENTER 313

 

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL 

PORTABLE

Wm. TOUCH CONTROL 

    

Yes you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY. See your
Royal Portable dealer or mail coupon today
for complete, up-to-the-minute information.

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY. Inc.

Dept. RNR 838

2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

ment. And the hands may be placed on the hips or
fingers held out of the water in front of the per-
former. The breathing must be easy and regular.
When practising this stunt, it is a help to hold on
to a support with one or both hands until kick is
strong and breathing regular. I

Triple Swims. Number I swims on back using
crawl kick and pulling Number 2 and Number 3
who are on their faces, head up, using crawl kick,
outside hands grasped by Number I and inside
hands joined, arms stretched sidewards.

Underwater Swimming. May be done on breast,
side or back.

Cornelia Builds a Social Center
(Continued from page 278)

end of the ballroom is a large beautiful fireplace
with the Kiwanis emblem carved in the chimney.
A second fireplace is to be found in the lounge.
Both these fireplaces are made of Georgia stone.
A large balcony occupies one end of the main
floor room.

The interior of the building is (rustic in design,

the walls and ceilings being finished in slab work.
All lighting fixtures are designed to carry out the
rustic scheme. Each room has hardxvood floors.
Five French doors on each side open on broad
verandas. The kitchen is complete in every detail
and large enough to meet the needs of one hun-
dred members.

Many of the evils of road houses and public
dance halls have been eliminated because the
young people of the town are using the club house
for dances and social events under desirable lead-
ership. Every civic and social organization is uti-
lizing the club house which has become a real
social center.

The Place ol the Day Camp in
Modern Life

(Continued from page 280)
effort in maintaining day camps is noted in Pitts-
burgh where the Federation of Social Agencies and
the Bureau of Recreation carry on an extensive
program. Other examples could be cited.
(Continued on page 314)

314

The National Music Camp

HIS YEAR marks the tenth anniversary of the

National Music Camp at Interlochen, Michi-
gan. It also marks an advance in public
school music education which is accorded the
major credit for the widespread increase in in-
terest in music among the general public.
Dr. Joseph Maddyupresident and founder of
the National Music Camp, and president of
the Music Educators National Conference, has
had a large part in making America music
conscious.

The campis situated on the shores of two

lakes in the pine Wood of northern Michigan .'

and is composed of three units: the high
school division, the college division, and the
supervisors’ division. The college group con—J
sists of students just beyond the high school”
age and those who havecompleted the camp
courses outlined for the high schooludivision.
The supervisors’ section was originally plan-
ned for teacher-ska mti'sic’annting- enrichnient
in their own field, but any adult who wilhes
to study music at the camp may enroll in that
group. The camp has become the Mecca of
musically talented youth of America. The
faculty is made up of musicians of national
prominence, and world famed directors vol-
unteer their services as guest conductors for
the weekly Sunday concerts which are broad-
cast over a national hook-up. Attractive field-
stone practise studios are scattered over many
acres of woodland. 'Swimming, boating and
tennis constitute the principal pastimes. \Vith-
in a stone’s throw of the great Interlochen
Bowl on the shores of Wa~Be-Ka-Netta, where
the girls’ camp is located, is the Interlochen
Bowl Hotel operated by the camp for the ac-
commodation of guests.

“As director of the National Bureau for the
Advancement of Music,” writes C. M. Tre-
maine, “I was impressed by the great possibil-
ities of the basic idea upon which the Na-
tional Music Camp was founded, and my en-
thusiasm has increased as the idea has stead-
ily taken tangible form in physical equipment
of a hundred or more buildings and the bring-
ing together of the exceptionally youthful
music talent of the country and of music ed-
ucators highly qualified to instruct them.”

Mr. T remain suggests that recreation leaders
acquaint themselves with what the camp has to
offer as they may have in their groups some boys

THE NATIONAL MUSIC CAMP

or girls. of outstanding music talent who ought to‘
enjoy the advantages of the camp. i

 

The Place of the Day Camp in Modern Life

(Continued from page 313*
Every boy pry/girl, regardless of financial Ci};-

c11m§tances, should have the opportunity of camp
experience; The camp brings to every child an

-____-.r'""‘

opportunity to gain a deeper appreciation ofthe

“Wonders of nature, a chance to learn to adjust

, _.__. ’—"“—H‘

" himself to rules and routine so necessary in the

.F L4_7_..—.

intimate life of the camp, and a Ingangpf under-
standing the importance of liis self-reliance in do-
ing for himself as well as caring for the welfare
of others.

Educational agencies, whether they are school

or non-school, official, unofficial or private, have a

real opportunity in making camping universally
accessible throughgthe popular and rapidly grow-
ing day camp movement. As a means of intro-

ducing the art of camping, withjtshdesirable edp-
CationaLoutcgme, and of preparing younger chil-
dren for extended periods of camp life, the day

camp fulfills its purpose.

Books and the More Abundant Life

(Continued from page 283)
Humanity U prooted with Maurice Hindus, put in

at Ports and Happy Places with Cornelia Strat-
ton Parker, explore the House of Exile with
Nora Waln, go Loajing Down Long Island with
Charles Hanson Towne, or witness through the
eyes of Elliot Paul the Life and Death of a
Spanish Town.

\Vhether we have time to read much or not, I
think We can all join Stefan Zweig in his Thanks
to Books with which 'I close:

' “You leisure hours, carrying us away from
the tumult of the day; you books, tr'uest and
most silent companions, how can we thank you
for your ever present readiness, for this
eternal lifting, elevating influence of your
presence! What have you not been in the
darkest days of the soul’s.solitude, in military
hospitals and army camps, in prison and on
beds of pain! You who have always, been on
the watch, have given dreams to men and a
bit of tranquility in moments of unrest'and
torture. God’s gentle magnet, you have always
been able to draw out the soul into its own
sphere if it were lost in everyday routine. You
have always in all periods of gloom widened
the, inner heaven within us to something
greater.”

,_‘

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 315

Are You Planning a Summer Party?
(Continued from page‘285)
person in front runs to the back. The passing
continues until one line finishes and wins. Any
biscuit that falls outside of the box must be drop-
ped again until it lands inside. "

Bow-Wow Stunts. Divide the players into groups.
Give each group so many minutes to plan a clever
dog stunt. It may be some trick a pet dog is noted
for, or_ perhaps a stage or circus stunt one of the
players has seen. The performance receiving the
most applause is awarded a box of candy. ' '

Off to the Races

Wooden Horse Race. Brooms and umbrellas are
needed for the Wooden Horse Race. The num-
ber you plan to race will depend upon the space
which is available. Choose the jockeys'by picking
numbers f rOm a hat. Jockeys must follow a given
track—a twine or string pulled Straight on the
floor. Each jockey has a string of his own which
he follows, riding straddle the broomstick. He
must not step off the string or broom and any
obstacles he meets he must hop over. A glass of
water, rubber ball or square box make excellent
obstacles.

Jumbled Jockeys. Pin race horse names to backs
of your guests. Pick fairly familiar horses as
found in the daily papers. No one is to reveal the
name on his neighbor’s back, but he can give all
sorts of leading hints. For example, if the name
is “Gypsy Fiddle,” someone might hum a bit of
“Gypsy Fiddles Are Playing,” make the motion
of playing a fiddle or repeat the saying, “It’s a
gyp, see.” Players may ask'questions from mem—
bers of the party to help in guessing their names.
The following are good names for a guessing
stunt of this kind: Dark Wizard, Party Spirit,
Laddie Stone, Hasty Hanna, Great Shakes. '

The last four failing to guess their names com—
pete in an obstacle race. Hand each player two
celluloid chips and at a given signal give them in-
structions to snap one chip with the edge of the
other chip (similar to Tiddly-winks) across the
room and back again. It is quite difhcult to do.

The Old Gray Mare. Pick someone of the party
to take the part of the Old Gray Mare. Tie large
paper bags over his hands and feet. Two people
either sing or play “The Old Gray Mare” during
the whole game. At a signal the man in the paper
bags walks on his hands and feet doing all sorts
of ridiculous stunts to make hishaudience laugh.

Magazines and Pamphlets”

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I

      

of Interest to the Recreation Worker

   

MAGAZIN ES

National Parent-Teacher: June-July 1938
The Family Players, by Mabel Foote Hobbs

The Womans Press, July-August 1938 _
A world Cruise in Music, by Susanna Myers

The American City, June 1938
Organizing Recreation to Attract All Tastes,
by Pat Dawson

Recreational Use of Water-works Reservoir
The .Recent Community Forum in Knoxville
P1cn1c Tables in Arizona Parks

Parents’ Magazine, July 1938 I
Tell Us a Story, by Dorothy Gordon
FagnilyFun, by Elizabeth King
Leisure, June 1938

Loop Tennis, by Harry F. Wild
Time to Eat, by Ernest A. Dench
Professional Group Leadership, by C. E. Ward

School and Society, May 14, 1938
Recreation Centers for London School Children.

- -...--..—.-—h

The _Municipality, June.1938 (League of, Wisconsin I
Municipalities)
A Recreational Plan for Wisconsin, by J. M. Alkers

Parks and Recreation, June 1938

Rejuvenating Washington’s Older Parks

Recreation — The Municipality’s Opportunity for
Character Building, by Dr. Frank S. Lloyd

Wings (Oak Park Playgrounds’ Aviation School),
by Josephine Blackstock v

Recreation Forces Organizing, by V. K. Brown

PAMPHLETS

Changes and Trends in Child Labor and Its Control,
by Homer Folks

National Child Labor Committee, New York City
Atlanta, Ga., Summer Activity Program

An Evaluation of Sherwood Forest Camp Experiences of
1937

St. Louis, Mo., Society for Crippled Children

Where Shall W e Play?

A Report on the Outdoor Recreational Needs of
New Jersey. New Jersey State Planning Board,
1938

Soft Ball Achievement Tests
Chicago Park District, Recreation Division

An Indian Project Planned for Bergen County,
New Jersey, Playgrounds

Works Progress Administration of New Jersey

Activities of the Detroit, Mich., Department of Recrea-
tion, Winter 1937-1938

Annual Report of the Playground and Recreation De-
partment, Aurora, Ill., 1937

Annual Report of the Department of Recreation, Akron,

Ohio, 1937-1938

316 MUNICIPAL GOLF MAKES “HOLE IN ONE”

Swimming 'Pool Data and
Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for Jrhose interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K...COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. e’rc..
payable Jro Earl K. Collins

Anyone laughing or even smiling must change
places with the Old Gray Mare. It will be very’dif-
ficult for anyone to keep a straight face very long.

Municipal Golf Makes "Hole in One"
(Continued from page 288)
LESSON II-—Chip Shot
I. Organization of class. If the class is not too
large, a circle is the most satisfactory for-
mation. Otherwise, arrange class so that all
may have a clear view of the teacher.
2. Procedure—explanation of shot, demonstra—

tion, practice in unison and individual cor—
rection.

a. Grip

1). Stance and footwork

c. Body position

(1. Back-swing

e. Down-swing and follow through.
Keeping in mind that correct form is the
most important factor when learning, do not
allow pupils to hit the ball until they have de-
veloped a fair swing.
Emphasize to the class the value of practice.
Give them a clear picture of the use of the
particular shot by referring to the hrst lesson.

The technique outlined should be followed in all

swinging lessons. At each lesson, review the
previous one.

LESSON III—Pitch shot using half swing

LESSON IV—Full Iron Swing

LESSON V—Full Wood Swing

LESSON VI—Putting Lesson

LESSON VII—A Review of the Six Previous

Lessons

Cost of Promotion

It is estimated by Mr. Strauss that the cost to
the city for the teaching of group golf lessons
during a year’s period is approximately $2,000.
This includes the proper proportion of salaries,
the necessary supplies and other costs. The golf
clubs used for the lessons are the clubs rented
during the season. As the Commission’s rentals
of sets of golf clubs reached a figure in excess of
21,775 during the year 1937, it is obvious that the
Commission is obliged to have a considerable sup-
ply of equipment for the.g01f group lessons. Cot—
ton balls, which are used in place of the regular
balls, in order to make it possible to conduct the
classes indoors, cost $1.50 per dozen. The Com-
mission uses about fifteen dozen each year. Cocoa
mats, another indispensable item in the layout for
the lesson, cost about $1.00 apiece. '

Benefit to Private Courses

We have demonstrated in Cincinnati that our
group golf lessons are of benefit to the private
golf clubs. We accept only beginners for golf in—
struction. Many of those we introduce to the
game become members of private clubs.

It is self—evident that the free, group lessons
do not in any way h_urt local golf professionals.
Rather, these lessons serve to introduce begin—
ners to the game, and arouse the interest in the
sport which leads on to the taking of private les—
sons. We have observed that many private les-
sons given "on both private and public golf courses
in Cincinnati have been given to those who have
finished the series of group lessons and wanted to
learn more. When we first launched the group
lessons, many professionals objected to the Com—
mission’s policy. Since that time their attitude
has changed to one of approval. The fact that so
many of them are assisting in connection with the
group lessons evidences their support.

We have noted that the semi-public courses in
and around Cincinnati are being played much
more heavily now than during previous years. “i e
believe that some of the play is due to the mu-
nicipal promotion of the game. '

JUNIOR LEADERSHIP 317

/
Wading Pools in “New York City

(Continued from page 299)
season is over, the areas are used for such activi-

ties as group games, paddle tennis, volley ball and
roller skating. Perhaps one of the most colorful
events ever to take place in the Department of
Parks was a roller skating carnival held some
years ago in one of the New York City wading
pools.

In order to use a wading pool for various ac-
tivities the area must be so constructed that there
is just sufficient grade to carry off the water. In
the Department of Parks, all wading pools are
usually graded towards the center; they are ap-
proximately nine to twelve inches deep in the
center and four inches deep at the edges. In fact,
when the water is drained out, a person not fa-
miliar with playground work would not know that
a particular area is a wading pool.

During the past four years, under Commis-
sioner Robert Moses, great progress has been
made in New York City in the establishment of
recreational facilities. \Vading pools were not for-
gotten; in fact, in nearly every new playground a
wading pool is provided. In some cases there is
not sufficient room for a wading pool, and so a
shower basin and shower are provided in order
that the children of the particular playground may
obtain the benefit of this refreshing activity dur-
ing the hot summer days in New York City.

It is, advisable to see to it that the children do
not bring bottles or glass containers of any kind
into the wading pool. It is also desirable to pro—
hibit sale of any bottled soft drinks in the vicinity
of the wading pool.

A Folk Festival in Hawaii

(Continued from page 301)

ancestry, and were coached by a school teacher
also of Korean ancestry. Unlike the Japanese
group, no one knew the dances, and it was only by
talking with old Korean-born people of the com—
munity that the dance steps and costumes were
made possible. The girls wore long brightly col—
ored Korean costumes with sleeve-like scarfs that
fitted over the hands. The “Jhang-goo” player——
drum beater—was dressed in a Korean man’s
costume.

An outgrowth of the participation of this groui)
is of special interest. Through coming together
for the folk festival, the group decided to form a
Korean Club which has since given a dance to

help pay for the University tuition of an out-
(Continued on page 318)

Junior Leadership

up: AMERICAN LicoioN of Oklahoma City,

Oklahoma, is cooperating with the Park De-
partment in the development of the Park
Monitor’s Association whose purposes are
stated as follows:

1. To encourage self-leadership and partici-
pation in all playground activities.

2. To engender the spirit of sportsmanship
and fair play among all groups using privi-
leges on the playgrounds.

3. To cooperate with the playground supern
visors in carrying out the recreation program
in the community.

4. To provide opportunities for service
which will include such duties as the following:
\Vatching apparatus, checking equipment, act-
ing as ushers at community programs, helping
in the swimming activities, assisting children
in sand play, handcraft, club work and first
aid lessons, respecting rules and city regula—
tions regarding neatness and orderliness on
the playgrounds.

According to the plan which has been ef—
fected, playground supervisors will guide each
member of the association according to his
interests and capabilities. Local club meet-
ings will be held once each week for the pur-
pose of outlining the duties and activities for
the coming week, and officers from each local
club will meet once a month in a city-wide
council to exchange ideas and promote use—
ful projects. All park monitors must be qual—
ified by the local playground director in or-
der to become eligible for the official Ameri-
can Legion badge. A complete roster will be
kept of each club, together with a report of
its achievements during the summer.

Each member in the Park Monitor’s Asso—
ciation may coach eight new members in pub—
lic safety and other projects of the club for a
period of not less than thirty days. At the end -
of this period candidates will be qualified as
official junior helpers, provided they have been
approved by the playground supervisor, to
wear the junior helper's button. When park
monitors and those who have graduated from
the junior helper’s rank shall have completed
all or part of one summer’s activities, they are
eligible for the community service honor rank.
This may be earned by giving three hundred
hours of useful service on the playground
under the leadership of the playground super-

318 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

visor. From one to four hours of service may
be earned daily by each boy or girl seeking to
attain this rank. It shall be accumulative from
day to day or from one summer to another
until certified. A fitting public ceremony will
be arranged each season by the American
Legion to award boys and girls attaining com—
munity service rank.

 

A Folk Festival in Hawaii
(Continued from page 31?)
standing Korean girl. This was probably one of
the most worthwhile results of the festival.

The next group to take the stage consisted of
about fifteen Filipino women and fifteen Filipino
men effectively dressed in their native costumes,
the men wearing embroidered shirts of pina cloth.
The women wore very colorful pina cloth dresses
with the large butterfiy-like sleeves. Their num-
bers included “Cariniosa” and “Planting Rice”—
the first a romantic dance; the second, a field
worker’s dance. There were five musicians to ac-
company the group. A great many of the men of
this group were pineapple and sugar cane field

workers.

This unusual group was followed by the grand
finale called “The Spirit of Hawaii.” Two kahilis
were placed in the back center of the stage. It is
an old Hawaiian custom to have the kahilis when-
ever the king is on review. These were originally
long poles with a two foot cylindrical form on top
covered by feathers of colorful red and yellow
birds, now extinct. Ours were made of crépe
paper instead of feathers.

After the kahilis were in place, the Hawaiian
chorus took the back center position while from

both side entrances the mingled groups—Samo—'

ans, Chinese, Koreans, Portuguese, Japanese and
Filipinos, approximately two hundred people in
all—marched onto the stage, all blending into a
most unusual and colorful spectacle.

When all the grOUps were on the stage, King
I Kamehameha and Liberty entered, followed by
the dance directors in native costumes. The Ha-
waiian dancers placed a Hower lei on King Kame-
hameha and Liberty, and one on each dance di-
rector. After this King Kamehameha gave the
signal for the audience to rise, and the performers
and audience joined in singing “Aloha Oe.” Thus
the first Maui Folk Festival came to a dramatic end.

The festival was accepted with so much en-
thusiasm by the public and the performers that it
was decided to make it an annual affair, and as I
write this plans are under way for a pageant

which will go on from the dances, building into
the performance other old customs of these in-
teresting peoples.

In addition to this plan for an annual festival,
the groups have discussed the possibility of having
an International Club which would meet monthly
or bimOnthly. Each national group would have
charge of one meeting, serving their native foods
and having a speaker tell about some phase of
their national customs and traditions. Plans have
also been discussed for an international cooking
class for women who are interested in learning
how to cook different foreign dishes.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 305)
games played with an active participation of over

9,000. It is estimated that 60,000 spectators
watched the contests—From Vincent Farrell.

Swimming Pool Charges

In the February issue of RECREATION some sug-
gestions were offered in the “You Asked for It!”
page on methods of handling the age limit prob—
lems in the swimming pool program. David G.
Adams, City Manager, Florence, South Carolina,
has sent the following information:

“We used to make a charge of ten cents for
children under twelve and fifteen cents for all
those above. \Ne merely tried to charge enough
to pay operating expenses.

“Last year we changed this as follows: ten cents
to everybody until four in the afternoon; fifteen
cents to everybody after four. Those coming in
on the ten cent ticket were allowed to stay in until
five. The baskets of clothes were kept separately.
Any who did not come out on call at five o’clock
paid the additional Eve cents to get their clothes.
“We also eliminated the practice of allowing any
concessions at the pool. Our swimming pool is on
the edge of the city, and if they want refresh-
ments they can get them elsewhere. The conces-
sion rule came as a result of so much filth and
eating of candy in the water. The system of
charging was recommended and we like it.

“The pool became a children’s pool until five
o’clock. Then it became a young pe0ple’s and
adults’ pool after five. There was a better senti-
ment. Formerly they could Stay in all day long,
in and out, eating and drinking, and many. would
go home sick and blame it on the pool ! Now they
get a real good swim and do the ‘Adam’s apple’
exercise at other sports, and go on somewhere
else when they get enough. And we have stopped
making liars out of those just above the age limit.”

i I

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Jewelry, Gem Cutting and Metalcraft

By \Villiam T. Baxter. \Vhittlesey House. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

AMATEURS WHOSE interests lie in the field of jewelry

making and metalcraft will find this book very help-
ful. Mr. Baxter who is Instructor in Art Metal and
Jewelry at the Woodrow \Vilson High School, Wash-
ington, D. C., has based his methods on those which he
uses in teaching high school students. The photographs
of the various objects illustrated are of student work
with a few exceptions and many of the pieces of jewelry
shown are the work of lbOys and girls Who in many in-
stances have been receiving instructions for only a short
time. Dr. Henry C. Dake, Editor of The Mineralogist
rlfagaefne, has contributed a chapter on the identification
of gem stones and gem minerals. A list of dealers was
given from whom supplies may be secured.

Art in Iron—School and Homecraft

Series

\Vrot Iron Designers, 541 West 35th Street, New York.
SIMPLE PROJECTS in wrought iron are presented in a

series of work sheets for children in the lower school
grades. All the projects outlined are within the scope of
the ability of eight to ten year old children. Anyone
wishing information on the prices of these sheets may
secure it by writing Wrot Iron Designers.

From Plan to Reality-Two

Staff of the Regional Plan Association. Regional Plan
gissociation, Inc., 400 Madison Avenue, New York.
2.00.

HE FIRST GENERAL REPORT on progress in the regional
Tdevelopment of New York and its environs. following
the completion of the Regional Survey and Graphic Re-
gional Plan and the organization of the Regional Plan
Association in 1929, was published in 1933 under the title
“From Plan to Reality.” A similar survey of prOgress
has been made for the second four-year period—1932-
1936. The report includes material on general traffic high-
ways, parkways, boulevards and express highways, rail
and air transportation, and other public services. In ad-
dition, there is a section on the development of parks and
reservations, and local parks and playgrounds in New
York and its environs which will be extremely interest-
ing to recreation and park officials. One of the conclu-
sions reached is: “Although economic conditions have
been responsible for a curtailment in the normal expan‘
sion of park areas, they have created a demand for the
development of existing parks. This activity has taken
place in general in locations most urgently needing the
facilities. The satisfaction and enjoyment resulting to
the general public are expected to strengthen the pres-
sure upon public officials to supply facilities where they
are still needed.”

The Public Library—A People's
University

By Alvin Johnson. American Association for Adult
Education. 1938. $1.00.
THIS IS THE NINTH in the series of studies which is
being issued over period of five years by the Ameri-
can Association for Adult Education. It is based on per-
sonal investigation of libraries and library methods, and
the special relation to the adult education movement. The
contents include a definition of adult education and li-
brary service, a discussion of library service as adult
education, the place and growing importance of the read-
ers’ adviser, the use of forums, lecture courses and
classes in library adult education prOgrams, the function
of the public library under democracy, and a discussion
of the library as a people’s university. The book contains
a clear statement of the facts in regard to the relation of

library services of the country to the adult education
movement.

Six-Man Football

A Handbook for Coaches and Players. By Stephen E.
Eyler. The University Publishing Company, New

York. List Price 20¢.
MR. EPLER in preparing this booklet has kept in mind
the needs of the boys in small high schools where
frequently there are too few boys to make up and main-
tain a regular football team throughout the season or
lack of funds makes it impossible to afford the necessary
equipment to play the game with safety to players. The
adaptation of rules which he has made is based on the
assumption that “the game is fun.”

Physical and Health Education

By Helen Norman Smith, B.S. and Helen Leslie Coops,
Ph.D. American Book Company, New York. $2.25.

HERE IS A TEXTBOOK whose purpose it is “to explain the

work of the specialist from the standpoint of the
classroom teacher, and to indicate relationships and
responsibilities in the administration of the program
and to give practical program material.” After clarify-
ing the subject through definitions and a discussion
of relationships and basic meanings, the authors pre-
sent the principles of curriculum building and its de-
velopment in physical and health education, following
this with practical information on how to plan the pro—
gram of physical education and methods of presenting the
material. In a chapter on Related Physical Education
Activities recreation programs have an important part.
Other sections of the book deal with health service and
health instruction. There is a chapter 011 Sources of
Material and Reference Readings which recreation work-
ers will find valuable.

31‘)

320 NEW” PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Where Shall We Play?

New Jersey State Planning Board, Trenton, New
Jersey.

Under the title “Where Shall We Play?” the New
Jersey State Planning Board has issued its report Of a
study of the outdoor recreational needs of New Jersey.
Russell Van Nest Black served as consultant director for
the study. The report is divided into two parts: (1)
Present Facilities and Future Needs, and (2) The Rec-
reational Situation by Localities. The report is accom—
panied by a number of maps and charts, and some very
definite and practical suggestions are offered for meet-
ing existing needs. “The correction of present recrea-
tional deficiencies and reasonable provision for future
needs,” states the report, “ultimately will require sub-
stantial expenditures by municipalities, by counties and
by the state. The purpose of this report is not to advo-
cate or to precipitate abnormal public expenditures for
recreation, but rather to show the necessity for giving
greater attention to our recreational needs and to en—
courage a comprehensive and intelligent apprOach to the
policies and financial problems involved.”

Problems of a Changing Population.

Report of the Committee on Population Problems to
the National Resources Committee, May 1938, United
"States Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C. $.75.

The United States will reach its population peak with-
in fifty years with a maximum of approximately
158,000,000, according to a report to the National Re—
sources Committee from its Committee on Population
Problems. After this peak has beenureached, unless
growth is accelerated by a changed immigration policy, a
period of slow population decrease is predicted. Some Iof
the problems involved in a changing population are (115-
cussed in this report which deals with the human re-
sources Of the United States in the same comprehensive
way in which America’s natural resources were treated in
the 1934 report of the National Resources Committee.

Gay Decorations for Parties, Dances, Banquets.
Dennison’s, 411 Fifth Avenue, New York. $.10.
Short cuts to the solution Of the problem of decorating
a room or a hall will be found in this pamphlet. A num-
ber of different themes for decorations are suggested, and
information is given on how to work them out.

Educational Experiments in Social Settlements.
By Gaynell Hawkins. 1937. American Association
for Adult Education. $1.00.

This little book is one of a series of studies in the
social significance of adult education in the United States.
It is well written and full of challenging thoughts.
\Vliether its findings are accepted or not it can be read
with profit by all who are concerned with the settlement
movement or related social organizations.

Little Sammy Cricket.
By F. E. Austin. The Austin Workshops, Hanover,
New Hampshire. $.25.

Here are facts about crickets that few people know.
Recreation leaders who are developing a nature program
will find in this booklet much information told in popular
sty 6.

Outdoor Handicraft for Boys.

By A. Neely Hall. J. B. Lippincott Company, Phila-
delphia. $2.00.

This new book by a well known author of volumes on
handcraft offers a large variety of projects requiring in-
expensive materials and, for the most part, hand tools
found in the average household. Among the articles de-
scribed are model airplanes, simple model boats, an out-
donr gymnasium, bird pools and baths, an aquaplane, out-
door fireplaces, and archery craft. There are more than
400 illustrations from photographs and diagrams.

Ventriloquism.

Treasure Chest Publications, Inc., 62 West 45th St.,
New York. $.10 plus $.03 postage.

History repeats itself, and once more the ventriloquist
and his dummy are front-pageentertainment, as ventrilo-
quist dummies and their masters chatter over the radio
and frolic across the movie screen. To meet the rising
interest in this old form of entertainment, Treasure Chest
Publications, Inc., has prepared a very usable and copi-
ously illustrated booklet, showing step by step how to
make and operate a ventriloquist dummy with movable
eyes and eyebrows and. of course, a mouth that opens and
closes. It would be difficult to go wrong in making one
of these humorous fellows, so clear are the directions.
To top it off, there are two skits ready to use. '

Follow the Leadership, and Other Skits.

By Barbara Abel. The Womans Press, 600 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York City. $1.00.

Dramatics as 'a tool for interpreting the programs and
policies of an organization is the subject of the book, and
in this instance the organization is the Y.W.C.A. In her
preface, Miss Abel tells how to use dramatics as a pub-
licity medium. “Grasp every opportunity to hang a skit
on any known public interest that sticks out at the
moment. Is it the Supreme Court? Why not try your
organization’s case before it? Is it the Constitution of
the United States? Dig up your own organization’s con-
stitution and see what’s in it.” The book contains a num-
ber of the skits used by Y.W’.C.A. workers in putting a
program before groups of various kinds.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vasli.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitcliburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASRELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES \V. \VADSWORTH, \Vasliington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. \VARBURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.‘

