Boy Meets Girl

” OY meets girl” has now been changed to “Girl meets boy,” as the mother of
B any young man of eighteen will tell you. What is important is that girls and
boys are still meeting as they have since Adam found Eve in the Garden of
Eden. When they no longer meet life will be over, the planet will have cooled off
and the earth will be a frozen place.

Why does the moon shine except that boys and girls may meet surrounded by
greater beauty? \Vhy do the flowers come out in the spring? Why are some ears
of corn red? To what better use can the canoe be put? Why are picnics held?
“’hy should church socials continue?

The time comes when the telephone is worth its weight in gold to boys and
girls. They know at last for what purpose the automobile was invented. The young
people’s societies in the churches give a normal chance for boys and girls to see each
other. Choirs and orchestras would justify themselves for the hours afterwards for
the boys and girls on the way home. The 4-H has its place. Likewise the Hi-Y
where boys and girls meet to discuss common problems. Amateur dramatics pre-
pare Romeos and Juliets for later reality.

Young men and young women together enjoy softball, volleyball, badmin-
ton, ice skating, roller skating, swimming. Much may be said, without words as well
as with, in dancing. The folk dances, the dances of the people, often have centuries
behind them. Words are only one form of communication for the young in heart.
The eyes and the whole body say much more. Youth is often inarticulate as far as
words go.

Fortunate are the young men and the young women who live where the peo-
ple through their homes, churches and their recreation centers and in all appropri-
ate ways give opportunity for the young to be together without self-consciousness,
without undue restraint, and naturally and easily to come to know each other. If
the community leaves the boys and girls in the mating time of life to the road houses
and more or less secret places, the community is responsible for what happens. All
fathers and mothers know the urges of life, their depth, their power, their inevitability.
The young man and the young Woman will “pursue happiness” together just as surely
as they will seek food and drink, and that which is most fundamental in nature can-
not be ignored among any races in any climates in hard times or good times. What
God hath instituted, let not men forget. “Wise men cooperate with the inevitable.”

When one finds that his heart beats no more rapidly in the moonlight; when the
mating season for boys and girls has lost its beauty for him; when he does not long
for boys and girls to know each other so truly and with such understanding that they
are sure whether they want to go on forever for better or for worse; when thesc
major matters no longer grip and challenge all the ingenuity and creativeness for
keeping a world natural and normal for young people, then one is old and cold
whatever his age.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

“OCTOBER, 1939  " f"  o 7
l

l e 369

 

‘

Photo by Philip sandman?

 

Co-Recreation in the u‘l-leyclay of Life"

That youth may be the “heyday of life” that poets claim it to be, a number
of national organizations are working, some for boys alone, others for girls.
Inevitably, however, and naturally, co-recreation has entered into the pro-
grams of these groups. It has been perfectly normal for the girls to want
to entertain boys on special social occasions and to include them in activi-
ties such as drama and music. Boys have wished to share with their sisters
and friends many of their pleasures. And so we find Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls and Boys’ Club members enjoying certain of their activities together.

Boys and Girls Together

By C. FRANCES Looms
Camp Fire Girls. lnc.

HOSE WHO HAVE been to the New York

W orld’s Fair come away with the refrain

boys and girls together ringing in their ears
(from that old time song “The Sidewalks of New
York”). The tractor trains use that melody to
warn people from their path and it reminds us
that, old as the song is, co-recreation is a good
deal older. In fact, looking through the very first
volume of our magazine, then called W ohelo and
published twenty-seven years ago, we find ac-
|counts of treasure hunts, hikes, cook-outs, and
parties not so different from the scavenger hunts,
camping trips, and dances which leaders describe
in their most recent reports as being vastly en-
joyed by Camp Fire Girls and boys together.
.Quite often, now as then, a Boy Scout leader
and a Camp Fire Guardian unostentatiously pull
‘the strings that bring about a boy-girl party which

 

the youngsters feel they have initiated themselves.
Often at camp it has been possible to arrange for
an exchange of hospitality with a nearby boys’
‘ Camp, the boys being invited for some special 0c-
.casion and vice versa. Square dancing, softball,
rodeos and stunts have been popular forms of en-
' tertainment for these events -———and always, of
course, eats.

Out-of-Camp Trips TOgether

Sometimes the boys and girls take out-of-camp
.ltrip’s together, usually at the close of the camping
reason and always, of course, with adequate lead-
r‘ership. Typical of such trips are the following:

l

. L

Older campers and counselors at Camp Sweyo-
laken (on Lake Coeur d’Alene, Idaho,) will re-
member with pleasure the fifteen mile canoeing
trip taken with Boy Scouts. Directly after break-
fast they embarked, paddling along the lake shore
to their first stop, where they viewed the Indian
sign writing. The second stop was at Pilot Rock
for more sights, and renewed energy from choco-
late bars thoughtfully provided by the boys. Then
on to the Girl Scout camp after battling wind
and waves, arriving pretty much drenched. A
hearty dinner, then rest hour in the tents——and
that rest was appreciated! A sightseeing tour of
camp, then homeward bound, with a stop at Ar-
row Beach, where they cooked supper and the
girls reciprocatedithe courtesy of the morning by
making fudge. They arrived at their home camps
in time for taps (almost). Needless to say, the
girls did their full share of the paddling and it
was a day full of excitement, friendliness and
good sportsmanship.

Girls at the Portland, Oregon, camp who have
shown special skill in camp craft are privileged
to share a horseback trip with Boy Scouts, which,
after several days of riding and camping, leads
them to a Boy Scout camp near the sea. Commit-
tees of the boys and girls together plan their sup-
plies. The girls learn: to be adept in stowing their
packs, caring for their horses, and helping to
make camp at night. The boys are handy with the
Skillets, and altogether it is an experience of fun,
work, and friendship shared and enjoyed.

In the winter time ski trips are planned in many
cities for boys and girls together. A report from
Seattle, Washington, tells of annual trips with
YMCA boys which are typical of the good time
enjoyed. “The days, of course, were Spent out of
doors—most of the time on skis; the evenings in
front of the huge fire in the lodge, dancing to

371

372 CO—RECREATION IN THE "'HEYDAY OF LIFE”

polka and schottische records, talking, singing,
and playing games. The girls taught the boys to
dance and the boys taught the girls to stem and
Christie—a fair exchange, we thought, and fun

all around.”

These trips, hikes, and cook-outs are, of course,
in addition to the parties and many other good
times shared by the boys and girls, but they have
the added advantage that the youngsters are woik-
ing together on something which challenges their
skill and obliterates self consciousness. As a good
outdoor mixer we recommend a John Smith party.
To quote Janet McKeller’s directions in the Camp

Fire Girls Outdoor Book*:

“All I can remember of the picturesque early history
of Virginia is John Smith’s mandate to the community—-
‘Those that do not work may not eat’-—and although I
would present the formula indirectly after the manner
of the shrewd psychologists of the day, it seems a good
point of departure for any sort of cook-out whether of
small numbers where everybody tries or wants to do
everything, or the large group—oh, up to two hundred
—-—-'where there is much opportunity for the easy going to
sluff responsibility and for the ‘born leader’ types to come
to a clash over how this or that shall be done. It’s valu-
able for the outings that include Iboys and girls, since
each has a non-negotiable job and Mary and Bill 'will
not go for a pail of water and get lost on the longest
way home—and since by its terms the girls do not do all
the cooking while the boys tease, or the boys exploit
their skill in frying and iiipping while the girls stand by
and giggle.

“First plan the menu carefully and list all the work to
be done. Be sure to include gathering wood, peeling
onions, frying 'bacon, setting table, serving, clean up and
fires out. Have as many jobs as persons. An attractive
little meal ticket is given to each—folded, mind you——
and on the inside is a notation something like this: ‘Good
for food for one supper on September 15th. To validate,
holder is invited (shall—is instructed) to keep the fires
burning and see that they are properly put out.’

“or ‘To cash in, holder will fry the bacon and onions
for chowder.’

“or ‘Valid only after holder has toasted twelve slices of
bread golden brown on fboth sides.’

“Someone is John Smithmthe leader. The group might
first be divided into two sections, i.e., on arrival—one di-
vision to gather wood for ten minutes, the other (and
smaller) division to spread out provisions so the whole
group can work without confusion.

“The meal should be ready to serve and all should eat
at one time. After the meal those 'who have worked may
sing while the ‘cleaners up’ and ‘fire put-outers’ finish
their work. This should keep everyone busy and happy.”

Perhaps, though the account of the canoe trip
did not include their menu, they roasted corn,
which is fun for an outdoor supper in September.

 

' Camp Fire Outfitting Company, 197 Greene Street, New York
City. 50c.

Open the husks and pull out the silk, any damaged
kernels or extras. Then twist the husks together
at the top and soak them in salted water. Bury
them in the hot ashes of the fire you have had
going for some time and build it up over them for
your coffee or whatever other cooking you are
doing. The corn will be done in about twenty
minutes. Be sure to have plenty of butter and
salt ready. Watermelon, which has been cooling
in the lake or brook, is a grand finale for a corn
roast.

Judging from reports of happy boy and girl
festivities, we would say that the secret of suc—
cess is to give them plenty to do—and plenty of
eats. As with all activities, the more responsibili-
ties the youngsters have for planning and running
off the events the more they enjoy them and the
more worthwhile the experince is. One Guardian,
made wise from experience, says that she puts the
noisiest or hardest-to-manage boys and girls on
the entertainment committee and they never fail
to rise to the occasion.

We find less urge for co-recreation among the
ten and eleven year olds and do not force it dur-
ing this period when many youngsters are enjoy—
ing a spell of hearty antagonism toward the op-
posite sex. For girls a little older, when they are
really getting interested in boys but don’t want to
say so, rather impersonal group—and-group proj-
ects where the boys and girls can work or play
together seem to be the answer. As the girls ad-
vance into their teens, they prefer to ask. their in-
dividual friends, and the smoothest arrangement
seems to be to have girls give the invitation com-
mittee the names of the boys they want invited.

Our Guardians seems to feel that co-recreation ,
is to be desired and girls enjoy it. It is the parents -
who sometimes need a bit of persuading—a little I
help in untying the apron strings. I

Getting Along with the uOther

Fifty Per Cent”
By ANNE L. NEW

Public Relations Division
Girl Scouts, Inc.

NE 015‘ THE principal purposes of any group'
work agency is to help its members get

along better with other people. Approxi-
mately fifty per cent of the “other people” in any
girl’s life are boys and men. The Girl Scouts

l

CO—RECREATION IN THE “HEYDAY OF LIFE” 373

believe therefore that Girl Scouting should in-
clude activities which help a girl to get along with

her fellow citizens of the opposite sex.

It is easy to state thus briefly the general Girl
Scout philosophy of co-recreational activities. In
practice, the Senior Girl Scouts (Girl Scouts who
are from fourteen to eighteen years old) are the
group most interested in boy and girl projects.
Senior Girl Scouts have reached the age at which
they feel keenly the need for adjusting them—
slves to boys as friends, some of whom may be-
come their husbands in the future. Many of them
must make family adjustments, getting acquainted
with father’s as well as mother’s point of view on
teen—age problems.

They Enjoy These Together

The Girl Scout program provides many oppor—
tunities for girls and boys to work and play to-
gether. Not just at parties but in dramatic groups,
sports, excursions, and in other undertakings.

One Senior Girl Scout troop invited a Boy
Scout troop to square dancing every two weeks.
The same groups went for walks in the country
as part of their study of local trees and flowers.
Everyone had such a good time that the boys
asked to have the joint affairs continued another

year.
Senior Girl Scout Mariners and their leaders

often find it interesting
and valuable to carry out
program plans with Sea
Scouts. They sail to—
gether, visit Coast Guard
stations and other points
of marine interest. Some-
times the girls are in-
vited to attend one of the
boys’ demonstrations of
seamanship and the girls
cook dinner for the
party afterward. The

Cod Fish Ball given by

one group of Mariners
is one of the important
social events of the sea-
son for the younger set
of their town. Money is
raised and spent, decora-
tions are planned and
constructed, the program
of the evening and re-

freshments are prepared—all by the girls them-
selves.

In some communities where there is no suitable
place for young people’s gatherings, the Senior
Girl Scouts have renovated any old building that
might be available, turning it into a recreation
hall where chaperoned parties for girls and boys
are run by the girls at cost or at a small profit to
the troop.

Reading plays, building scenery, acting, and
producing has brought girls and boys together in
one Pennsylvania town. Getting along with boys
as people and fellow workmen helps these girls to
find poise in all their social relationships.

In Iowa girls and boys got together to raise
money at a carnival. They made plans and pre-
parations for games, booths, refreshments, a rec-
reation room for social dancing, entertainment,
tickets, music, publicity, and decorations. Many
weeks of effort went into the project which turned
out to be well worth the energy expended. Six
hundred people came, although only two hundred
had been expected. It was a financial success, and,
best of all, it was such a social success that it
started a series of joint boy and girl activities.
There was cooperation and mutual sharing of re-
sponsibility to the greater benefit of all concerned.

\Vinter sports have provided many opportuni-
ties for boy and girl projects in communities

 

374 (IO—RECREATION IN THE “HEYDAY OF LIFE”

where such sports
are possible. In up-
p e r N e w Y o r k
State girls choose a
winter Snow Queen
and, at her crown-
ing, stage a carnival
for boys and girls.
The day includes
skating, snow—shoe—
ing, and ice sculp—
ture for all.

Girl Scout ex—
periments with boy
and girl camping
have been carried
out in various places
for some years. A
joint mountain
climbing camp has been conducted in one com—
munity, and, in another town, boys and girls have
come together to take short mountain expeditions.
Boys from a Y.M.C.A. camp have been invited
to share certain activities of a neighboring Girl
Scout camp and in many other ways joint camp—
ing has been practiced. The Girl Scout organiza—
tion plans to explore more and more the possi-
bilities of such camping enterprises.

The Girl Scout program includes ten fields of
interest: the out-of-doors, nature, sports and
games, community life, literature and dramatics,
arts and crafts, music and dancing, international
friendship, health and safety, homemaking and,
for Senior Girl Scouts, an eleventh-vocational ex—
ploration. Social adjustments, so important to
girls of teen age, are not included as a special field
of interest in the Senior Girl Scout program.
Leaders learn that these social adjustments may
be made in connection with any part of the
program.

Even the compilation and publication of a cook
book was made a joint project by a group of New
England Girl and Boy Scouts. Girls and boys who
are too likely to think of each other only as dance
partners or playmates sometimes need the experi—
ence of working rather than playing together. The

wise Senior Girl Scout leader is urged to meet this
need wherever possible.

Why Not Father, Too?

There is one other type of co-recreational ac-
t1v:ty which is seldom touched upon as such, but
which is nevertheless important. Girls need to get

 

along, not only with
boys their own age
but with older men,
for they will not go
out into a world
peopled wholly by
young people.
Father-daughter ac-
tivities have long
been a part of Girl
Scouting. Fathers
may serve on troop
committees or help
daughters do the
heavy work in
building a meeting
. .. .. _ as” .. i‘ » place. The father
"PM" Park” Pho‘o” who likes to whittle

and the daughter
who is interested in Girl Scout arts and crafts,
the father who likes to camp and the daughter
who knows how, the father who likes to eat and
the daughter who can cook—these are Girl Scout
fathers and daughters who find new bases for
friendship and understanding, bridging a gap be-
tween the male and the female, the old generation
and the new.

Co-Recreation in the
Boys’ Club

By ELIZABETH MORRow MCSTEA
Boys' Clubs of America

on to the same extent nor emphasized to the

same degree as in those agencies which de-
liberately assume the dual function of service to
boys and girls.

It has been most generally assumed that straight-
line Boys’ Clubs are designed primarily to conduct
a boys’ program, exclusively, in a building where
activities for boys ,are central. But from time to
time club directors throughout the land are beset
by: puzzled little girls who would like to know
why provision has not been made for them, and
frequently the young female artists bring pressure
to bear on Brother in the hope that he may per-
suade leaders at the Boys’ Club to allow Sister to .
attend some special activity. This has been the

CO—RECREATION in Boys’ Clubs is not carried

CO-RECREATION IN THE “HEYDAY OF LIFE” 375

entering wedge in the greater number of those
Boys’ Clubs which are either successfully con-
ducting programs for girls in conjunction with
that for boys, or the gradually increasing num-
ber of clubs which have found the necessity for
experimenting with the co-recreational idea dur-
ing these years of depression.

The co-recreational phase of the Boys’ Club
program may be classified under three distinct
headings as follows: (1) programs conducted for
the senior membership of the Boys’ Club provid-
ing mixed dancing classes, parties, dramatics, glee
clubs, musical groups, occasional outings or pic-
nics ;  programs organized for girls on a de-
partmental basis, with joint participation in se-
lected activities; (3) programs deliberately plan—
ned for girls similar to those conducted for boys,
but under separate leadership, with separate build-
ing, facilities, and budget.

A Few Examples

Worcester Leads‘ the Way. In 1916 the VVor-
ceSter Boys’ Club first experimented in the field
of co—recreation with dancing parties three eve—
nings a week following basketball games. The
program was confined to the senior membership.
But the depression made it apparent that there
was a need to bolster the morale of the Club’s
youth, and so there evolved the ten-cent dances
Eat the Boys’ Club where young men and women
up to the age of twenty-three might enjoy music
and dancing under proper supervision. The suc-
cess and ease with which the dances were con-
ducted led the leaders to organize co-recreational
rSplash” parties on Sundays, followed by games
and box lunches.

Basing opinion on twenty-three years of ex-
perience, the Worcester Boys’ Club leaders be—
lieve that co-recreation in the Boys’ Club should
be restricted to the senior membership because
13f the difficulty of holding within the club, for
L 1ny length of time, large numbers of youth over
' seventeen. On the other
land, it is believed that
:here is a definite need of a
)rogram strictly for boys

1nder seventeen.

The Worcester commu-
1ity now has its own Girls’
:lub, which takes care of

“part of the girl problem.
l Foys are invited to attend
I blances given at the Girls’

l

 

 

complaint that its

"There are 200.000 youth between the
ages of sixteen and twenty-tour in Los
Angeles. Only thirty per cent of them
are in organized clubs and associations.
yet the second most popular request of
these young people is for a club organ-
ization where they may
with other young people."—From the rec-
ord of a "trial" of the community in a
youth were not being

adequately served by

Club and frequently participate in many activities
at stated times.

In Mount Vernon and West Orange. Similar in
development to Worcester has been the co-recrea-
tional program conducted at the Boys’ Club of
Mount Vernon, New York, and at the Valley
Boys’ Club in West Orange, New Jersey, in that
all have tried to cooperate in recognizing that
there are girls as well as boys who lack the nor-
mal recreational privileges accorded more for-
tunate youth. These clubs, in conjunction with
their Boys’ Club program, conduct dances, dra-
matics and musical groups as well as mixed out-
ings. The Mount Vernon Boys’ Club last year
organized a Junior Women’s Auxiliary composed
of young women between the ages of sixteen and
twenty—five. This group renders service to the
club in any way possible, sometimes acting as
volunteer leaders in the library for the five-to-
eight-year-olds. Frequently they assist with the
organization of activities for girls ten-to-four-
teen. In their sewing classes they make dish
towels and new covers for camp mattresses, and
conduct cooking classes. The gymnasium is made
available to them one day each week at specified
hours. In addition, the older girls invite speak-
ers to their group meetings on program including
health discussions, recreation, home-making,
clothes design and selection, and cooking.

The younger girls are divided into club groups.
They hold meetings in the afternoons and do not
conflict with the boys’ meetings which are held in
the evenings.

The programs in these clubs have been well re-
ceived. The commUnity has recognized this
broader service, bringing about a closer relation—
ship between the club and the parents. The con-
duct of the older boys is noticeably improved, and
new activities have been added with no additional

cost

The Children's Aid Society Experiments. The
Children’s Aid Society,
which for years has been
serving boys and girls, has
had no difficulty in conduct-
ing joint activities under
one roof. More than eight
years ago their industrial
evening classes were dis-
banded, and provision was
made for boys’ and girls’
local agencies. clubs.

meet and work

37o CO-RECREATION IN THE “HEYDAY OF LIFE”

Girls were handled in the same manner as boys,
the tendency being to adapt the tried program of
the former to the needs of the _latter. Girls reg-
ister, are examined by a physician, and hold mem-
bership tickets. The greater number of activities
which interest boys are adopted by the girls, some-
times in a modified form, and the program itself
is frequently enriched by the joint participation
of the two sexes.

The Children’s Aid Society provides separate
game rooms and gymnasiums for boys and girls,
and separate rooms for some craft activities, but
beyond these limitations boys and girls fourteen
and Over combine dancing classes, educational
trips, socials, library programs, dramatics, some
craft and hobby activities, and playground
interests.

Girls Included in Little Rock. The Little Rock
Boys’ Club at Little Rock, Arkansas, has a girl
membership of several hundred. Although the
building, when originally planned, was designed
for the use of boys only, a separate girls’ shower
and locker room was included in order that the
swimming pool might be made available to girls
during stated hours On two days of each week.
But even this provision was the result of com-
munity feeling that too much was being done for
the boy population of the community in propor-
tion to what was being done for girls who were
their sisters or who came from families whose
circumstances were similar.

The VVomen’s Auxiliary of the Little Rock
Boys’ Club cooperated in augmenting the Boys’
Club program to include the joint activities now
enjoyed by both boys and girls. Additional lead-
ership Was provided in this case for the swimming
pool and for some special activities.

With the Boston Clubs. The Boys’ Clubs of
Boston, Massachusetts, is recognized as having a
' particularly fine set-up for girls, with a complete
program apart from that work conducted in be-
half of the boys. Mixed groups, however, enjoy

special recreation programs and activities together.
The Bunker Hill Girls’ Club has a separate en-

trance into the building with separate rooms,
leadership, administrative staff and budget, under

the central supervision of the Boys’ Clubs of
loston.

"50-50" with the Chicago Clubs. Two of the
eight clubs of the Chicago Boys’ Clubs have for
the past eight years conducted co-recreational
programs, occupying a separate building unit in

one case, and in the other sharing the facilities
of one building. Under the age of fifteen years,
success has been attained in such activities as
library, the arts and low organized games. Social
dancing, swimming, picnic and beach parties
have been limited to the older groups, as well as
the more highly organized gymnastics, civic and

social clubs. Approximately one-half program

time is devoted to co-recreational activities.

Those clubs having camps which serve girls as
well as boys provide quarters and camping fa-
cilities on the same grounds, but conduct co-rec-
reational activities only to a limited extent. Sepa-
rate leadership and program activities do not pre—
vent occasional joint participation on set occasions.

It would seem that the co-recreational pro-I

gram in the Boys’ Club is taking hold, with more

clubs making their facilities available to girls on
a joint participation basis. By and large, this is!
due to the great number of older boys and young-
adults who are stranded midway on the thin sup-
porting bridge between the school terminus and
the enmployment'agency. Normal social relations
between the sexes are rendered difficult, if not im-
possible, because of lack of funds, and with mar—'
riage indefinitely postponed there is a growing
conviction that it is both natural and necessary
to move gradually toward a fuller recognition of
youths’ plight and make way for desirable mixed
activities.

Insofar as the age groups affected by this pro--
gram adjustment are concerned, it Cannot be said
with any degree of accuracy at just what early#
age the co-recreational program can be mani-;
festly most effective. This will depend, finally, on,l
the community and more specifically on that sec-'l
tor of the community served by the club. So fre-
quently development and maturity are conditioned

by nationality and old world traditions.

There are many additional problems—those at];
fecting the objectives of the Boys’ Club, the mem-'-
bership at large, and finally, leadership. But these
will all have to be carefully examined and ana‘
lyzed and leveled off before the pattern will be*
come objectively visible. All such conditions and;
difficulties are now being studied by the National;
Advisory Program Committee of the Boys’ Clubs;
of America and other working committees, and;

particularly by the newly appointed Commission
on the Older Boy. l
. l

uCome and See Lincoln's Youth Program”

NE OF OUR most inter—
O esting experiments in

co-recreation here in
Lincoln grew out of a special
and urgent need in the Whit-
tier ]unior High School.
The location of this school
in a busy business and in-
dustrial section made it nat-
ural for the pupilsu-a ma-
jority of whom do not go
home for lunch—to congre-
gate at noon hour in drug
stores, railroad‘ yards and
other places where their un-
supervised time was not
always wisely spent.

Noon Hour Programs
A program of athletic games which had been
held successfully'for some years was only a par-

tial antidote to the noon hour difficulty. Nor did
the opening of the library for reading, ‘the show-
ing of educational films and other measures un-

Idertaken by an inadeqUate number of teachers

:prove effective.

I The Recreation Department, called upon to

&solve the problem, did so by putting on a large-

'scale program of social games and crafts. At our

suggestion four of the schools’ Industrial Art
shops and adjoining corridors were thrown open

lfor checkers, lotto, dominoes, jig-saw puzzles, peg
tgames, croquinole, anagrams, parchesi, helma, the

Etremendously popular fiddle sticks, ping-pong,
shufiieboard, billiards and handcrafts (the making
3f candlewick articles, knitted articles and reed
Jaskets).

' So attractive has this program proved that even
‘corner store addicts” who were loath at first to
,return to the fold have become eager converts.

The success of the program is due both to the set-

Jp and the organization of the program. The in-

formal appearance of the game rooms—contrasted

with the rigidity of the regular classrooms —-
lelped psychologically in making the program ap—

)ealing. To furnish the rooms, cellars and attics,

l 'ansacked for needed furniture, yielded a cr0p of
91d tables, chairs and even stage properties. Some
incient opera seats, planks on sawhorses, stumps of

i
\

  
  
 
  

By RUTHALEE HOLLOWAY

Assistant Superintendent
Recreation Board
LincolnI Nebraska

"We cannot say in Lincoln. 'Come and see
our complete co-recreational program.' but
we can say. and warmly. 'Come and see our
beginnings of a program.' We believe in
good beginnings—not spectacular displays
but a slow devel0pment founded on careful
planning. If any recreation worker from
afar should drop in on us. we'll be happy
to exchange experiences on this vital sub-
ject. With those whom we shall not have
the pleasure of entertaining in our city
we'll compare notes here in Recreation
on the progress we've all made in this
new-old department of human happiness."

trees, and boxes served as seats.

Games were bought, donated

or made in the school shops or

by the workmen of the Rec-
reation Board.

The program was in
charge of six workers sup-
plied by the Recreation De-
partment. The principal of
the school assumed respon—
sibility for overseeing the
project as a whole and serv-
ed as a bulwark in the mat-
ter of discipline.'One teacher
was very helpful in patrol-
ling the neighborhood and
recruiting boys and girls to
learn games.

In order to encourage at-
tendance by pupils who were timid and backward,
small groups were permitted to spend the after-
noon home room period. learning to play games
under direction of the recreation leaders. One
group of special problem girls met twice a week,
acquiring skills that would prepare them for suc-
cessful participation in Girl Reserve or Camp
Fire programs and would interest them in higher
standards. In a short time these non—adjusted
units became oriented and joined in activities.
Some of the needy pupils were supplied with
handcraft materials.

Committees of boys and girls were organized
to help in the management of this program. COm-
mittee members served as doorkeepers, instructed
pupils in the games, acted as game referees, and
helped to enforce the necessary rules of conduct.

‘ Each committee member wore a civic league badge'

which marked him as an officer to whom au-
thority had been delegated.

Other Lincoln junior high schools and even
grade schools, profiting by the example of Whit-
tier Junior High School, have established noon
hour programs. The only limit to the expansion
of the work is the ability to provide leadership.

Youth Nights

Table tennis outfits and other game equipment
which had been acquired for the noon hours—plus
facilities of one of the school plants furnished

377

378 “COME AND SEE LINCOLN’S YOUTH PROGRAM”

through the cooperation of the superintendent of
schools—were made to do extra duty in Youth
Nights. These Nights were designed for out-of—
school young people, many of whom were unem-
ployed, others of whom came from homes where
they would not feel free to entertain their friends.
The names of the young people were obtained
from the high schools, which supplied lists of
graduates and those who had dropped out. Tickets
were given to these young people and to others
reached through the P.T.A. A varied recreational
program was offered under Recreation Depart-
ment leadership, social dancing being omitted be-
cause of community sentiment.

We were pleased with the response to our musi—
cal games and mixers. The eighteen—piece Lin-
coln Civic Orchestra (a WPA unit) played for
the mixers and added much to the atmosphere of
the affairs.

Gay Colors in New Game Center

Lincoln’s youth has responded ardently to our
new downtown game center, formerly a basement
miniature golf concession. The original wall mu-
rals depicting outdoor scenes were brightened;
three colorful shuffleboard courts were built in
side by side on a wood flooring with removable
side boards between adjacent courts. A large
shufHeboard score board is part of the decorative
scheme and there is a built-in seat for players who
are waiting their turns. Fifteen spectators’ beaches
were moved from the golf locker rooms and
painted a bright apple green. Besides twelve new
table tennis tables with 10w adjustable overhead
lights and three undersized badminton courts for
use when the tennis tables are not set up, the room
boasts a dart ball corner, an orchestra platform
and shell with piano and victrola radio, and a
lounge containing armchairs, lamps and tables for
quiet games. There are gay curtains, dull blue-
violet colored waste baskets and flower pots of
the same shade filled with bright flowers. Pro-
vision is made for whisking the whole place into
a social dancing room by storing the tables behind
a curtain under the stairway and removing the
divisions between the shuffle-
board courts.

Needless to add, every
possible hour is scheduled
for activities in the game
center. The full possibilities
of this room are yet to be
realized. It is the hope of the

"Young folks are interested in getting
together in large groups of their own
age. They like to have a little larger
cruising radius than that
their own neighborhoods or church
groups."—-James C. Lewis, Superintend-
ent of Recreation. Lincolnl Nebraska.

Board that this center will pave a way for other
such arrangements in Lincoln. The cooperative
interest on the part of the business men has been
splendid.

Associated Youth Clubs

The game center is made available to groups of
young people by tickets for designated evenings
of socialized sports, musical mixers and social
dancing. These groups— young people’s small
clubs in different parts of the city, organized with
varied purposes such as music, drama or hand-
crafts—are affiliated as Associated Youth Clubs,
each club being represented by two officers in an
inter-city council. We are happy to furnish part—
time leadership to these clubs whenever possible.

Youth in the Community Centers

Our community centers are comparatively small.
At each of the six, however, provision is made for
the socialized activities such as table tennis, shuf-
fleboard, dart baseball, table games and crafts.
Special time is allotted to the different age groups
for tournaments, parties and special events. It is
our plan that those groups made up of young
men and women over sixteen years of age or-
ganize as local clubs of the Associated Youth
Club. This will offer them an opportunity to mix
with young people from other sections of the
city and will answer that urge to belong.

Social Recreation Service to Youth

In the fall and winter the Recreation Depart-
ment is called Upon to serve many groups, such
as churches, schools, fraternal organizations, the
Y.W.C.A. and Y.M.C.A., by suggesting activities 3
or providing leadership. Naturally a large part of ;
this service is given to mixed groups of young:
people. As an example of this type of service, the
Y.M.C.A.’s private game rooms for which we
have furnished leadership for several years might
be mentioned. Need for the service arose when a
so many boys and girls turned out for roller skat- ,
ing periods at the “Y” that not all could be ac- i
commodated at the first session. The problem of
what to do with the overflow
was finally neatly solved by
instituting the two private
game rooms—one a quiet
game room and one an active-
game room (the latter con—I
taining a piano, shufHeboard
and ping-pong) —— where

    
  

provided in

 

“COME AND SEE LINCOLN’S YOUTH PROGRAM”

under leadership the young-
sters till in the time hap-
pily.

Our recreation leaders
find these opportunities to
work with outside groups
particularly interesting ; they
especially enjoy putting on
programs of musical games
and square dancing. One
type of program which they
have found very popular is

"More and more we are emphasizing the
importance of providing co-recreational
activities which boys and girls may en-
ioy together. We know from experience
that such participation is conducive to
a normal, natural. social relationship on
the part of both sexes which is invalu-
able in bringing about desirable individual
development. We have noted a more
wholesome attitude on the part of both
sexes through their intermingling in lei-
sure-time activities and programs."—
Minnette B. Specter, Department of
Playground and Recreation. Los Angeles.

379

held under supervision of
the Recreation Board—
have had better luck all
around. At first suggestions
for novelty activities were
not well received, but be-
fore long they came to be
the most popular part of the
program. The program
dance, although new to
these boys and girls, helped
greatly in keeping them in

the progressive mixer. Each

guest receives an individual

card giving a list of activities in which he is to
engage at given periods. A whistle announces a
change which scatters the participants in a given
activity, so that for each period every player meets
a different group.

Church Family Night

There is no reason why an occasional get-to-
gether may not desirably include both parents and
children of all ages. Such an affair is the weekly
Family Night held by one of the Lincoln churches,
for which leadership is drawn from the church
staff, the Recreation Board’s staff, and volunteers
of the church, University and community. After

_ a covered dish supper and a stage program, the

mothers, fathers, and children disperse to meet in
groups of their choice for religious discussion,
handcrafts, hobbies, music and drama. After two

. such periods they reassemble in the church gym—
' nasium for a period of social recreation. Those

families with small children then depart and the
young adults remain for musical mixers.

Young People in the Governor’s Mansion

Pulling social chestnuts out of tires is one of the
things the Recreation Board does best. A few

_ years ago we had an opportunity to salvage a par—

ticularly hot handful of chestnuts—win fact to

_ solve what threatened to become a community
r problem. In the governor’s mansion is a recrea—

tion room which the governor’s wife graciously
decided rightfully belonged to the young people
of Lincoln and should be made available to them.
Accordingly she issued an invitation to them. The
young guests came and behaved rather badly, to
the horror of the more easily shockable citizens.
Since it was realized that the trouble-was lack
of leadership, the adolescent offenders were of-
fered another chance and subsequent parties—

l J

the dance room. The parties

have come to be weekly af-
fairs and the plan now is to reopen in the fall on
a club basis. Any young person may join who is
willing to abide by a set of rules established by a
committee chosen by the group. Each week a
committee of young people will plan and present
a program under the leadership of the Recrea-
tion Board.

Community Theater and Marionette Guild

The Lincoln Community Theater functions
under two divisions: the workshop and the three—
act—production division. The workshop, which is
the experimental division, provides trained lead-
ership for those who have had little training or
experience. It offers its members opportunity to
participate in acting and in the allied arts of the
theater. Two weekly classes are scheduled in play
direction and make-up. Two one-act plays are
prepared for each monthly meeting of the organi-
zation. The three-act-play division of the Com-
munity Theater is composed of the more experi-
enced actors and stagecrafters.

The Marionette Guild, rejoicing in a well
equipped shop and a portable stage, is making
progress in the construction, costuming and ma-
nipulation of marionettes.

Surprise Feature in Outing Clubs

A novel quirk in the Lincoln Outing Club pro-
gram is the element of surprise. The membership
is informed as to what type of clothing to wear
or equipment to bring, but usually does not know
the plans of the committee or destination of the
trip. The club meets once a month—sometimes
oftener—for ice-skating, bob-sled rides, sled slid-
ing, snow games, hikes, swims, picnics, overnight
excursions and exchange outings with other
Nebraska groups. The Recreation Department

(Continued on page 414)

Training Social Recreation Leaders Can Be Fun!

SOCIAL RECREATION insti-
A tute for the develop-

ment and training of
volunteer leaders is an indis-
pensible part of any well-or—
ganized, year-round recreation
system. The problem is to de-
termine the type of institute
which will attract the greatest
number of leaders and keep
them actively interested after

the institute is over.
Ever since the Cedar Rapids Department of

Recreation was organized back in 1925, the fall of
each year included in its activities a social recrea-
tion institute. This occurred with such regularity
that it soon became a custom. It differed from
year to year in subject matter as well as organi-
zation. One year, every night for two weeks
found the group playing and learning together;
another year, it was held one night a week for ten
weeks. Still another year, short three session in-
stitutes were conducted for various special groups,
such as P.T.A. recreation, church recreation and
Farm Bureau recreation, thus making it possible
to work out programs to fit definite needs.

Each year the institute was planned in hopes of
finding the ideal type of organization which would
meet the greatest need of the community as well
as have the most lasting effect. Each year, though
much fine leadership was discovered and many
fine volunteers were trained, we did not feel com-
pletely satisfied. After personal invitations were
sent to all churches, lodges, P.T.A.’s and other
groups that had sought assistance during the year,
and a general invitation was extended through
the newspaper, the group would consist mainly of
the same faithful ones who had responded year
after year. To make things still more discourag—
ing, we kept receiving just as many requests
from the various groups for social recreation
leadership. Many of them were groups, who, hav-
ing been invited to send a representative to the
institute, failed to do so. Others had, perhaps,
sent a leader, but had found he lost interest when

the going got tough and he had to plan a program
unassisted.

Then Ethel Bowers of the National came to
town for a two-day institute. Two very enthusi-

380

By NEVIN NICHOLS

Superintendent of Recreation
Cedar Rapids. Iowa

We hear much about the importance
of leadership in a program of co-
recreation. Here
leader who has some practical sug-
gestions to give us on methods of
training the necessary leadership.

is a recreation

astic evening classes in social
recreation were conducted by
Miss Bowers, who made con—
tacts with local women’s or—
ganizations during her short
stay. From these contacts
came the nucleus which later
developed into the Party of
the Month Club.

In every community there
can be found several people
who make a hobby of game
leadership, and our city was no exception. Five
people, two men and three women, were called
in by the Superintendent of Recreation to lay the
plans for this new system of social recreation
training. It was first decided that a monthly meet—
ing would be most successful because most peo-
ple were able and willing to give one night a
month to this activity. The first Monday of each
month was selected as the date, thus allowing a
program especially planned for that month to be
used. Each participant then could take back and
put on for his own organization the party pre-
sented. It was further decided that the party
would be held in a different church in a differ—
ent section of the city each month, thus working
no hardship on any particular church and taking
the program to the community rather than bring—
ing the community to the program. i

Each program was to be approximately an hour
in length and was to be conducted according to
Miss Bower’s outline for a social recreation team
consisting first of all of a master of ceremonies,
who should be a man with a good loud speaking .
voice, and pleasing personality, to act as host and
conduct the pre-party games. He would also
handle disciplinary problems when necessary, see
that the room to be used was well ventilated and
that necessary chairs were available. Further, he
was to be prepared to assist any other leader who
might need his help. Other members of the team
would consist of an active games leader, to take
charge of all walking and running games; a quiet.
games leader, to conduct the less strenuous games; '
a musical games leader for the grand march fig-
ures, musical mixers and folk dances; and a song
leader, not necessarily a finished musician but en-

(Continued on page 414)

 

Social Dancing in the Co-Recreation Program

Of all the activities which seek a place on the co-recreational program,
the social dance inevitably makes the loudest bid for favor. For it seems
to answer most nearly the need of young people for rhythm, romance, and
large mixed group social gatherings—the “wider cruising area,” as one rec-
reation executive describes it. To give boys and girls these desiderata
and yet throw around them the best safeguards of society—this is the rec-
reation leader’s problem. How he is meeting it is told with remarkable in-
terest, we feel, in this section and in scattered paragraphs in this issue.

Summer Dances For Teen Ages

By JENA V. HOLLAND
State Supervisor
Women's and Children's Activities
Utah Works Progress Administration

dance in the summer—as well as all the rest

of the year! Everyone dances in Utah!
From square dances intricately executed by grand-
rnother and grandfather, to the Lambeth Walk
enjoyed by everyone—we all dance, young and
)1d! Perhaps this is because social dancing in
Jtah has come up through the generations. When
he Mormon pioneers were making their trek
vest, dancing was one of the main diversions bf
he nightly encampment.

No WONDER Provo boys and girls want to

Checking on Their Desires

Such being the case, Provo high school boys
ind girls did not astonish school and city recreation
Manners when they signified through a survey
hat eighty—Eve per cent of them wanted dancing
in the summer. The survey was undertaken by
he executive committee of the local Recreation
Touncil to find out not what some adults thought
oung people wanted but what young people
Jemselves desired. In fall, winter and spring, the
; ys and girls enjoy weekly matinee or evening
Fance parties under the auspices of the schools.
t had seemed to the committee that the greatest
LCk in the summer schedule was supervised social
iancing, since there was already in operation a
limmer co-recreational program of games, sportS,

Iramatics, music and nature activities. Neverthe-

 

 

 

:35, the committee double-checked its opinion by
:ferring the matter directly to the boys and girls.
he survey was conducted by school officials

3

through personal contact questions, group con-
tact questions, and individual questionnaires. Each
boy and girl of the Junior and Senior High
Schools thus had a three—point contact. The ques-
tions on which the survey was expected to shed
light were:

I. Did the boys and girls continue to dance
during the summer months?

2. If so, where did they dance?

3. To what extent did they enjoy dancing com-
pared with other co—recreational activities
offered through the community recreation
plan?

Results of the survey revealed that public dance
halls, rural beer parlors and. road houses were the
places where these adolescents danced because
there were no other places to dance; and that
they preferred dancing to any co—recreational ac-
tivity offered in the community recreation program.

On the basis of this discovered need for a
wholesome avenue of expression for adolescent
urges, the committee went into action with over-
whelmingly successful results !

Promoting Dances on a Club Basis

First, it was decided to promote the summer
dances on a club basis. A “Dance Club Organiza-
tion Week” was accordingly inaugurated. Articles
were run in the town papers informing the par-
ents and the boys and girls that an orchestra and
ballroom would be available to interested grOLIpS
for twelve weeks for a nominal fee of ten cents
per person. Certain age groups were invited to
meet at designated times and places with local rec-
reation supervisors. It was stated that a mini-
mum number of twenty would be accepted as a
nucleus of a club. The clubs were then organized
by the boys and girls themselves with the help of
recreation supervisors. Each club that was begun

381

382 SOCIAL DANCING IN THE CO-RECREATION_PROGRAM

during “Dance Club Organization Week” selected
its own name and developed its own artistic motif
to be printed on the club’s membership cards
which were to be used as admittance cards to the
club’s dances. Each club elected a president, vice-
president, secretary and three directors who were
responsible for formulating club policies. ,The of-
ficers, for example, decided on the maximum
number of members to be admitted to the club;
they drew up regulations regarding proper con—
duct at the dances; they scheduled the dances and
planned special entertainments. The elected of-
ficers also controlled all funds collected, which.
by the way, were used for punch and cookies or
party favors for the special evening parties which
occurred during the dance season. A maximum
number of one hundred was accepted for each
club, and any person could join any club he de-
sired providing the club membership was not tilled.

Although decisions were made by the young
folks themselves, leaders were of course always
available for counsel. This combination of free-
dom and guidance worked out well in every way.
For example, in the matter of joining the clubs,
the youngsters almost invariably associated them-
selves with comrades of similar social develop—
ment. The Junior Clubs as a rule were composed
of boys and girls of the same age; this was true
'of the Senior Clubs, too. During the dance season
only a few club members were penalized by their
peers for misconduct. It was never necessary to
suspend any member from his club because he did
not meet the standards set by his associates.

Nine hundred boys and girls were afliliated with
the summer dance clubs. Each club sponsored a
guest night during the season when each member
was privileged to bring one guest for whose con—
duct he was responsible.

Junior clubs as a rule preferred to meet from
9:00 to 10:30 P. M. An interesting characteristic
of their programs was the demand for dance mix-
ers—a demand due partly to the boys’ timidity in
asking girls for dances and partly to a hearty
adolescent fondness for the livelier activities. For
approximately three-fourths of the evening they
wanted to secure partners through social games
and dance mixers, and to learn new ballroom
dances. The remainder of the time they would
choose partners by themselves. Senior dance club
members, on the contrary, preferred to spend
more of an evening in exchanging dances, with
probably two or three dance mixers interspersed.
Some instruction in ballroom etiquette was de-

sired. Occasionally a director would be asked to
teach new dance steps, but the demand was not
so great as that in the Junior Clubs.

All dance club entertainments were held at
Senior High School and Junior High School gym-
nasiums, which were offered free by the Board of
Education. An orchestra from the Recreation
Project of the WPA was available for dance
music. Salaries of recreation directors for this
activity, as for all other recreational community
activities, were paid conjointly by the Board of
Education, Provo City, and the Works Progress
Administration; thus the only cost for each par-
ticipant was a ten-cent membership fee. So here’s
how, when and where nine hundred boys and girls
of the teen ages of Provo City with a population
of 16,000 people enjoy twelve dancing parties for
ten cents—-—and what fun!

An Experiment in
Church Co-Recreation

By JAMES MCKINLEY

Director of Recreation

Collingwood Avenue Presbyterian Church _
Toledo. Ohio 7

'1‘ THE BEGINNING of the year a mixed class in
A the Senior Department of the Sunday
School of our church began a study of com-
munity resources. Recreation was included in the
study and the group made a survey to Find out
just what co-recreation facilities were available in,
the neighborhood. The survey showed that the;
places for wholesome co-recreation were few 
far between. Dancing was one activity the young
people decided they could promote in a better
manner for having a good time. They thought it
should be held in the church, and a committee so
informed the minister. The minister said that
while he was not opposed to dancing he had seep
it tried in other churches and could see no ad-
vantage in promoting it within the church walls.
He discussed it with the committee and then told
the members to work it out with the director of
recreation. This was the plan finally evolved: 

Finding a Place to Dance

A city park shelter house about a mile from theJ
church was available for dancing at the low pried

SOCIAL DANCING IN THE CO-RECREATION'PROGRAM

of one dollar per evening. The Senior Depart-
ment would sponsor a trial dance there to see what
interest there actually was in dancing. The com-
mittee, with the aid of the director, worked out
the program which was to continue from 8:00
P. M. until II :00 P. M. in the shelter house. After
this the entire group was to go back to the church
for refreshments. For music they would have an
amplifier with all the latest tunes on records.

It was a shy, strange crowd that gathered the
evening of the first dance. Strange, because as the
evening advanced it was discovered that over a
quarter of the crowd did not know how to dance
or was just beginning to learn. The committee’s
first ob was to put those people at ease and in the
mood for dancing without making any individuals
conspicuous. They all wanted to dance, but were
afraid every eye would be upon them if they ven—
tured out on the floor.

On Early Arrivers 

ll"

In planning the program. the committee had not_

supposed the guests would
arrive before eight o’clock.
But by seven-thirty a dozen
was there, with more coming
in each minute. and the am-
plifier was not yet ready for
use. So on the spur of the
,moment a game was impro-
vised. The floor of the shel-
er house was of white tile with a pattern of dark
lines radiating from the center with a design
which was perfect for running on. Here was a
rplendid layout for a game of line tag which could
)e played without music with everyone joining in.
The game accordingly began and was continually
inlarged to include later arrivals—who invariably
.tepped on the lines and were tagged. After this
nitiation they entered the fun wholeheartedly. At
. he end of ten minutes the entire group was yell-

g and playing together with no thought of self—
. onsciousness.

are being

  
   

Then Came the Dance

Promptly at 8:00 P. M. the music began, and dur-
ig two pieces some of the young people danced
rhile many others sat on the side lines. Next, all
Jere brought together in a big circle and told how

. 3 do a grand right and left. Everyone tried it,and
' 161], at a signal. each person took a partner and
' anced. After a very short time the same proced-

" ire was used again to mix up the partners. In the

asked

There are doubtless many churches in
which young people are asking why they
may not have dancing as one of their
activities. This account of an experi-
ment in a Toledo church will be help-
tul to church recreation leaders who
similar

  
 

383

spirit of the dance good dancers accepted poor
dancers and helped them all they could.

A get-acquainted game was then introduced to
break the ice still further. It was “Zip—Zap,” and
how the players did enjoy it! Following this a
Paul Jones was tried, the success of which was
attested by the fact that it ran for over half an
hour before the group was willing to go on to
something else. Again came a rest period follow-
ed by waltzes. Now the young people were in the
mood and eager to try the “Lambeth Walk.”
Everyone chose a partner, took his place in a
double circle, listened to detailed instructions, and
did what he had been wanting to do—the latest
dance step out. To conclude the evening’s danc-
ing the lights in the shelter house were extin—
guished and by the light that shone in from the

‘v street a marvelous moonlight waltz drew every-

one to the dance floor.
Back in the church for refreshments and a dis-

:cussion of the evening’s entertainment, the group
jldecided that more such dances should be held.

Dancing inside the church
was forgotten. Other things
that they could do together
were enthusiastically talked
over.

Other Activities Popular

queSl'ons' Since that dance the group

has held roller skating parties,
a sleigh ride, and two skiing and coasting parties. It
has presented a religious play, sponsored a young
people’s carnival, and is playing badminton, shuffle-
board, table tennis, and board games. The church
is the young people’s playground and their play
is guided along the lines of Christian education.
This is one such co-recreation experiment that
can be tried and expanded. We are trying others.
Our fun nights, our roller skating parties and our
movies are all planned for mixed groups of younger
children from the Junior and Intermediate De-

partments.

Class Social Dancing

By ARTHUR J. ROLFE

Physical Education Instructor
Emerson School. Gary, Indiana

” CLASS, fall in without changing into your gym
clothes today.” This order was given to the
8:15 boys’ gym class at Emerson School in

384

January 1937. The boys look-
ed at each other in astonish—
ment and wondered what this
strange order of events was
to be, for they have always
changed into gym clothes for
the gym activities. After ar—
ranging themselves for roll
call, they were told to report
to the girls’ gymnasium, and
informed that once a week
for the next eight weeks they were to take social
dancing with the girls’ class.

This announcement was met with varied results.
Some of the boys immediately fell in line, some
of them were non-committal, and the rest very
much opposed to the idea. The instructor then
explained the reason for attempting this new pro-
gram which had never been tried before in the
history of Emerson School.

Some salesmanship was necessary to persuade
the doubtful ones to enter into the experiment,
and they were told at that time that after spend-
ing two class periods in social dancing they would
not have to continue and could withdraw from
further participation. This, in brief, explains the
beginning of social dancing in mixed class groups
at the Emerson School.

The girls’ physical education director, Miss
Reynolds, originated the plan and presented it to
the boys’ directors for trial. She has long super-
vised the dancing parties here and could see that
if certain social etiquette and dancing itself could
be taught through the class medium, a great deal
could be added to the social functions. \Vith this
idea in mind, the program was launched and,
needless to say, the first day we had various re-
actions. With careful supervision by both in-
structors and by an appeal to the better dancers in
the class to aid the beginners, the first day passed
off with fair success, and we felt that the pro-
gram could be continued.

The following Tuesday nothing was added to
the program, but a stronger appeal was made to
the students themselves to enter into the idea
wholeheartedly. After the second week a poll was
taken among the boys to see what their reaction
was. The result was surprising and gratifying.

Our classes range in number from fifty to one
hundred fifty, and, for example, in one class of
one hundred forty-two boys, only two asked not
to continue participating in the program. we con-
tinued the program as planned without attempting

"Co-recreation is one of the most impor-
tant forms of recreation for the church.
Churches need co-recreational activities
because people who meet together want
to play together. Boys and girls playing
together in the church form friendships
that are lasting. Co-recreation is increas-
ingly coming to be recognized as an im-
portant aid to religion. Keep it thus' and
under good leadership co-recreation will
help to work wonders for any church.'l

SOCIAL DANCING IN THE CO-RECREATION PROGRAM

to teach a great deal of social
etiquette, merely selling the
idea to the students. At the
end of the eight weeks per-
iod the instructors unani-
mously felt that it was a pro-
gram well worth while, and
Miss Reynolds reported a
marked improvement in the
other social affairs of the
schooL

This year we began the program again with a
more definite objective. The students had ac-
cepted the idea; the majority of them liked it and
were eager for the eight weeks period to begin.
We decided to attempt each week to improve
some social defects. Of these, gum chewing was
the most glaring, and so we gave the classes little
talks upon the unsuitability of gum chewing in
public places. From then on we directed attention
to other points of desirable social behavior; boys
were encouraged to thank their partners for
dances and to escort them to seats instead of
leaving them in the middle of the floor; girls
were shown that it is graceful and proper to ac—
cept an escort’s arm. \Ve tried to avoid having
the boys congregate in one corner and the girls
in another. In general. we made an effort to
eliminate the prevalent impoliteness and rudeness
which we believed were due mostly to ignorance.

Then came propaganda to have the boys more
conscious of their personal appearance. Following
the first Tuesday when the common edict was
put before them, a request was made for all boys
to wear tics. Following that they were asked to

shine their shoes, and then we asked that some;

sort of a jacket be worn which would resemble a:
coat. The boys responded almost a hundred per:
cent, and it was noteworthy to see the change in!
their appearance on the days of social dancing.

The question of music used is always impor- .
tant. The first year we danced to piano music, _
but the graduating class of 1937 presented to the i
school an electrical phonograph on which we now j

depend entirely.

In order to break down the stiffness which
sometimes appears at the beginning of these
classes, we use two or three different methods

0f bringing the couples together. For the first

dance we generally line them up, boys and girls
in separate lines, upper classmen in front. Then
we have them march and meet at one end of the;

(Continued on page 416)

   
 

A Symposium on Social Dancing

High School Age Dances on Club Basis. Many

carefully thought—out features characterize dance
programs for high school age boys and girls
sponsored by metropolitan agencies in Tacoma,
Washington. Among the interesting points are
(I) the club basis on which dances are run; (2)
the tests in dancing and etiquette which are pre-
requisite to club membership; and (3) the co-
operative council through which the direction of
the club is shared with P.T.A. and other civic
organizations.

The Sponsors’ Club—which consists of high
school students who attend the dances——e1ects its
own officers, furnishes host committees and se-
cures chaperones. When a dance is held the club
secretary sits at the entrance of the building;
from each guest he receives ten cents, the weekly
membership dues, and a signed membership card.
An adult attendant who is also at the door regis-
ters the name, age, address and school of each
guest. No person having liquor or the smell of
it on his breath is admitted. There are no pass out
checks, and once out an individual stays out; nor
is rowdyism tolerated. A seven piece orchestra,
public address system, two dance instructors and
five attendants furnished through the WPA de-
partment of recreation help to make the affairs
enjoyable for an average of five hundred dancers

‘ each Friday night. The first half hour is devoted

to beginners’ instruction and the rest of the time
to social dancing.

To direct the administration of the dances and
to relate the club to various civic organizations a

‘ Cooperative Council has been organized with the

following rules :

Rules for a Cooperative Council

The Council shall be composed of one repre-
sentative from each of the following: (1) Public

; SChOOlS; (2) Parent-Teacher Association; (3)
Metropolitan Park District, (4) WPA; (5) “Hi”

Social Dance Club. The Council shall deal with
all problems relating to the promotion and admin-
istration of the community Hi Social Dance Club
or Clubs. The Public School representative on the
council shall relate the program to school activities
and requirements, the P.T.A. representative shall
coordinate the program with home activities and

lfurnish chapcrones, and the Metropolitan Park

District representative shall relate the club mem—
bers’ desires and organization to the Council.

Because the school function is the developing
of skills, all students between the ages of fifteen
and twenty—one desiring membership in the club
must first pass a test in dancing ability and eti-
quette given by the school teacher in dancing.
After passing such a test, a membership card giv-
ing all necessary information shall be filed with
the Park. Director of Recreation. On payment of
dues to the club treasurer at each dance session,
the membership card will be given to the student,
who will then surrender it to the club secretary
stationed at the entrance to the dance hall.

Membership will be accepted from those young
people between the ages of sixteen and twenty—
one years of age not attending school, providing
they pass the same test at either the school center
or park recreation dancing instruction classes.

For violation of rules, cancellation of member-
ship, either temporary or permanent, will be in-
voked by the Cooperative Council.

High School Dance Club Officers shall consist
of a president, secretary, patrol of six, vice—presi-
dent, and treasurer, all elected for a three months’
period during the first week of January, April and
October. These officers shall have active charge
of the dance floor and program of activities.

The high school age dancing clubs are directly
sponsored by the Playground and Recreation De-
partment of the Metropolitan Park District with
the cooperation of the WPA Department of Rec-
reation. From Alfred R. Hodges, Director of
Recreation, Metropolitan Park District.

Recorded Music for High School Dances. In Al-
bion, Michigan, dances are held for high school
students on Friday or Saturday night each week
unless some other activity takes the gymnasium.
Unlike Albion’s Junior and Senior proms, these
recreation dances, as they are known to the stu-
dents, have recorded music. An excellent ampli-
fying system has been developed which brings the
latest records as loudly or as softly as desired to
the three hundred or four hundred boys and girls.
The students are enthusiastic and many have said
that they like the informality of the recreation
dances better than the more formal school dances.
The dances are held from eight to eleven and the

(Continued on. page 416)
385

Clubs Further Co-Recreational Obiectives

The young people of today will be the adults of tomorrow. In their hands
we, their elders, will eventually leave the conduct of all departments of
life. Gradually boys and girls must be taught to handle their own affairs
wisely. It devolves upon all leaders of young people to share in induct-
ing them into responsible adulthood. Organized clubs are growing in favor
as a means to this end. .In the accounts presented here, some of the leaders
who are employing this approach to youth education tell of their methods.

A "Drop In" Room

By MINNA B. REICHELT

Executive Secretary and Supervisor
Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation

OUNG PEOPLE have two very strong social needs

~—one is for the large gathering that supplies

glitter and romance; the other is for a pleas-
ant place where they may meet informally by
twos, threes and fours whenever the spirit moves
them. In a neighborhood such as that of the East
Germantown Recreation Center, Philadelphia,
where families are poor and home conditions un-
pleasant, the lirst need' used to be most widely
satisfied by the cheap dance halls. To fill the sec-
ond need—the urge to foregather informally——
street corners served in place of homes. And
while looking for glamour, pleasure and compan—
ionship, boys and girls were meeting in surround-
ings that were far from uplifting.

Thinking about these neighborhood young peo-
ple, who were mostly the out-of—school group, the
directors of ,East Germantown Center agreed that
a co-recreational social club might solve their
problem. The club could hold parties and dances
to meet the desire for large-scale social functions.
And—of equal importance—an attractive club
room could be established which would be an ad-
missible substitute for the non-existent home. back-
ground—a communal “drop in” room, available
for everyday informal use and enjoyment.

In initiating an enterprise of this sort it is easy ~

for directors to spoil young people’s fun by an-
ticipating their wants, by providing equipment
without allowing them to work for it, and in gen-
eral, by stealing the show. East Germantown cen-
ter directors were successful in avoiding this mis-

386

take. During the summer months the idea of the
club was put forward in such a way that the
young people took it up with enthusiasm. In the
early fall a series of four dances, held during a
two weeks period, served as an attraction to get
the group together. The directors provided an
amplifying set and the latest records. Between
three and four hundred boys and girls attended
the dances, at the last of which an election Iof of-
ficers (publicized in advance) was held for the
new co-recreation club.

Two hundred and forty young people were suf-
ficiently interested to take part in this election.
They chose a very popular boy as president and
elected other officers and standing committees.
They also voted to pay ten cents apiece per week
as dues to furnish and decorate a co-recreation
social room, buy new dance records and a spec-
trum for the dance lights.

And how those boys and girls have worked,
with the directors, to equip a cheerful, livable
club room! Gradually, the room acquired rugs,
piano, radio, table lamps, bridge lamps, bookcase,
pictures, chairs, tables, plants and monks’ cloth
draperies. Much of the equipment was donated
or purchased from a second hand dealer. Mem-
bers of the group collected magazines, books,
cards, chess sets, sheet music and plants." The

painting, repairing and decorating of the equip— I

ment was done by the directors and the group.
The entire cost of furnishing the room was thirty-
flve dollars.

The recreation room comfortably accommo-
dates thirty persons and is open daily from 2:30
P. M. to 10:30 P. M. It is a meeting place where
boys and girls, parents and outsiders may read,
play the piano, sing, hear radio broadcasts, play
cards, chess, checkers, meet “dates,” sew, knit,
relax and rest.

CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES 387

The standing committees
elected by the club have meas-
ured up capably in the matter
of taking responsibility for
activities. The social commit-
tee arranges tournaments such
as bridge, chess, camelot and
ping-pong; this committee also
takes care of the music pro—
gram for the dances. The arrangements commit-
tee selects boys and girls to sing, dance, whistle
or imitate over the microphone with the records.
The host and hostess committee consists of ten
boys and ten girls assigned to dance with “wall
flowers” of the opposite sex during the dances.

With the opening of the co-recreation room, a
greater community spirit has developed. The boys
and girls use the room to good advantage and
conduct themselves properly. They make every
effort to keep the room in order and supplied
with the latest reading material. The room has
increased the attendance at the center and has
brought many people from different parts of the
city and from other cities to see the club and how
it functions. The club has decreased corner
lounging and, incidentally, added much interest
and greater participation in other y established
classes at the center.

The success achieved at the East Germantown

. Recreation Center has created an interest and de—
l sire throughout the remaining centers under the
jurisdiction of the Philadelphia Bureau of Recre-
ation to establish co-recreation rooms. Several

have already been opened with similar success and
Others are under way.

I

l
i A "Body Meets-a- Body"
in Cincinnati

By MABEL MADDEN

Public Recreation Commission
l Cincinnati. Ohio

ll NLY THE LONELY heart can know my sad—
0 ness,” says Tschaikowsky in one of his
most poignant songs. True it is that lone-

liness is one of the most tragic experiences which
by its very nature reaches those gentle, quiet, un-
assuming souls who are generally helpless in try-
ing to make social contacts. Someone has said
there is no. loneliness quite so terrible as that of a

l

"It is the consensus of opinion among
leaders in the Philadelphia recrea-
tion centers that co-recreational pro-
grams have resulted in increased in-
terest in the centers and their activi-
ties. instilled a spirit of comradeship
and harmony. and dissolved unruly
cliques and gangs. thereby eliminat-
ing many disciplinary problems."

big city where pe0ple who are
established with friends and
position are too busy with their
own affairs, too hurried, and
too self-centered to make an
effort to help those less fa-
vored socially.

The Recreation Commission
of Cincinnati had made an ef-
fort, through various classes and clubs, to give our
citizens an opportunity to meet socially, but with
limited success until the Meet-a-body Club was
organized in 1929. The club was formed at the
request of three newspapers-whose “advice” c01-
umnists had received so many letters from men
and women asking for help in getting acquainted
that the editors felt this need had to be met. From
the beginning we had the help of these papers,
and it was interesting to listen to the reporters
and editors of the newspapers discussing the
problem of meeting friends in a big city. Most of
them hadn’t realized that the need existed. Most
of them couldn’t see why adult men and women
couldn’t make friends and acquaintances. I would
say to them: “How should a stranger in a city
go about making friends?” The inevitable an-
swer was: “Join a church group.” My answer to
this would be: “HOW many of your present
friends have you met through church affiliations?
I, for example, have been attending the same
church practically every Sunday for the last five
years, and in this time have never been intro-
duced to a single person, and no one has even
tried to speak to me.”

From my conversations with Meet-a-body Club
applicants I know this condition exists everywhere
in certain large city churches. Parishioners at-
tend the services and rush away immediately
afterwards; when they come to dinners, suppers,
or other events in the church, each group has its
own circle of acquaintances, and unless the clergy—
man or some member of the congregation makes
a determined effort to help strangers, the occa-
sion is more of an ordeal than a pleasure for the
newcomer, especially if he is a middle-aged man
or woman.

The editors and columnists of the newspapers
advised lonesome persons to join our club, and
N. Robert Christy, a prominent business man, of
Scotch ancestry, by the way, suggested the name
“Meet-a-body.” The newspapers helped, too, in
trying to convince the public that the club was
not a matrimonial agency.

388 CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES

It Started Ten Years Ago

The first “Meet-a-body” social party was held
on Hallowe’en, ten years ago. We made provision
for refreshments for eighty-five people, wonder-
ing what to do with the “left-overs.” Exactly one
hundred and fifteen persons, business men and
women, housewives, factory and department store
workers, bookkeepers, stenographers, and several
retired business men attended. We listened to
many of their stories: “I have been transferred
to Cincinnati from Chicago and our officials frown
on office friendships, so my wife and I have no
means of meeting others”; or, “I’m a telephone
operator. I sit in my little booth all day long and
never have a word with anyone excepting on busi-
ness”; or, “I am so shy, I just don’t seem to be
able to make friends.”

The most important problem was to find some-
thing interesting for such a diversified group. We
formed two clubs, one for those under thirty-five
years of age, the other for those over thirty. The
man or woman from thirty to thirty-five years
old had the privilege of choosing the older or
younger group. A social party to which everyone
was invited was held once each week, and in ad-
dition interest groups or hobby groups were or-
ganized. The Meet-a-body Hiking Club was one
of the first interest groups formed and has sur-
vived for ten years. Every Sunday the club meets
for a hike of some kind. The Cincinnati Chorist-
ers, a group which has sung with the Cincinnati
Symphony Christmas Concert and is the successor
to the Meet-a-body Choral Club, has met once a
week for the past nine years under the direction
of one of Cincinnati’s outstanding musicians for
two hours of singing, with a social dance follow—
ing the rehearsal. Concerts have been given every
year. The Bridge Club, Dancing Club, Supper
Club, and Old-Fashioned Dancing Club are in-
terest groups of the larger social organization.

Making the Wheels Go Round

Membership in the club is open to everyone of
good character. No one is admitted without an
interview with the director of the club, who,
through the courtesy of the
Y.VV.C.A., is given an of-
fice at the Y one afternoon
and one evening each week
for the interviews. Each ap-
plicant must file a member-
ship request giving infor—
mation concerning employ-

A number of experiments in the typ
club described by Miss Madden have been
tried in various cities, but more often
than not such clubs have failed to real-
ize the hopes of their founders. Cincin-
nati seems to have discovered the key to
success. which we suspect is leadership!

ment, length of residence, references and special
interests. At the first interview the director de-
cides whether the applicant should be accepted for
membership and to which special interest group
he should be assigned. The applicant is then in-
vited to the party held every Friday night.

Officers of the club are elected annually, and
they, with the Board of Directors, decide all mat-
ters of policy, arrange schedules and appoint
chairmen of events. We have tried to make the
club self-governing in every respect. The Rec-
reation Commission provides the director, who
assists the officers and interviews applicants. All
other questions are referred to the club for
decision.

In dealing with men and women who find it
difficult to make and keep friends it is first neces-
sary to instill in them a real desire to have friends,
and, what is more important, to be friends. We
are constantly stressing the idea that friendship
is a mutual responsibility, a give and take propo-
sition; that no one can remain perpetually on the
receiving line, and that the person who waits for
others to make all the overtures of friendship
will soon find himself alone and lonely in spite of
anything the club can do.

We still have the problem of attracting men to
the club, our present ratio being approximately
six women members to every man. This problem,
in all probability, will always be with us, since it
is so much easier for men to make friends, espe-
cially friends of the opposite sex. As long as
social custom requires the man to be the one to
have the privilege of asking for engagements and
making all advances, there will always be more

women than men who want to add to their list of -

acquaintances and friends.

Dues are twenty-five cents a month, and in ‘

addition each member pays his share of the ex-
penses of each party or activity. There is no

element of charity and the club members are most ‘

careful to impress the public with the fact that
the club is not designed only for people of low
incomes. Some of the activities are comparatively
expensive, and the semi-formal New Year’s Eve
celebration, which included
a buffet supper at midnight
at a downtown hotel, cost
the members the same as
was paid by revellers in
other ballrooms in the hotel.
Since the membership in-
cludes men and women of

eof

CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES

varying economic levels we have tried to arrange
activities which will fit various purses. If one
party is too expensive, the members who cannot
afford it simply miss this event. At the Friday
night social, however, where we play games, dance,
enjoy movies, or have something else arranged by
a committee of the club, the expense is never more
than twenty-five cents. Most often it is ten or
fifteen, and whenever we build up a sizable sum
in the treasury we have free parties.

We have been most fortunate in finding a di-
rector in Miss Rhea Braun whose sympathetic
understanding and tact has weathered many a
storm of clashing personalities, misunderstandings
and petty jealousies. Miss Braun has been the
director for the past three years, and in her the
club members have found a friend whom they can
telephone for advice, who is willing to attend a
movie with them, or visit them even when she
is supposed to be off duty.

What They Do

The director has tried to make the prOgram of
the club as diversified as possible. Within the
past two years we have conducted three all—day
boat rides. Every spring and fall the club mem—
bers take a train trip to High Bridge, Kentucky.
The railway company provides a private coach,
and those who care to take the boat from Natural
Bridge to the Dix Dam. Recently the Cincinnati
Street Railway Company fitted up one of the old
trolley cars for an old—fashioned trolley trip for
the club. Some members came dressed in “Gay
Nineties” costumes, the old-fashioned ice cream
freezer was attached to the rear of the car, and
at the end of the line at a suburban park the car
stopped for an hour while-everyone was served
refreshments. The ride lasted four hours and the
hour's intermission gave everyone a five hour
party at a cost of thirty-five cents.

Meet—a—body Club members have learned more
about nature than most people in our city through
their participation in the nature hikes, bird walks,
and tree study groups held by the Park Board.
They meet at a central location, join the Park
Board instructor and her group for the hike, and
then have their own social gathering afterwards.
Three hay rides given this year attracted large
groups of members. WLVV and other radio sta-
tions have invited the club members to make a
tour of the studios and broadcasting plants, to
watch rehearsals of important programs and to be
in the audience at broadcasts featuring important

389

radio personalities. Trips to local factories and
plants have been arranged and visits made to the
Museum of Natural History, Grant’s birthplace,
Harrison’s tomb, the Observatory, the Conserva-
tory, Trailside Museum, Art Museum, and twenty
parks. Next month we are planning a Sunday
trip to the Ohio Caverns, sixty-five miles from
Cincinnati. A special bus will leave at 8 A. M. and
will return to Cincinnati at 10 P. M.

Small groups often make their own arrange-
ments to meet during the week at theaters. con~
certs, lectures and other gatherings. Quite often
the director will announce: “Some of us are hav—
ing dinner on \Vednesday at 6 P. M. at the
Tavern. Anyone who wants to come is welcome."
Sometimes five or six will be present, but gener-
ally fourteen or sixteen will come, have their din-
ner and then break up into small groups, to go to
a movie, to “window—shop,” or to go to the home
of one of the members for a game of bridge.
Every effort is made to encourage these informal
meetings, to bring three or four people together
so they may feel they are meeting as friends and
not as members of a club. Frequently fine friend—
ships have developed, and after members have
made a number of friends and acquaintances they
no longer attend the club. This is what we are
striving for, to make it unnecessary for them to
rely on us for entertainment, recreation and
friendships. We try to give the members a knowl-
edge of all the facilities, education, recreational
and cultural in the city, so they need not depend
on us to tell them what to do, but instead will use
their own initiative in participating in the activi—
ties they prefer with friends and acquaintances

whom they have made through their contacts at
the Meet—a-body Club.

A Sure Cure

for

Sunday Afternoon Blues!

By MARY FLo SIEGEL
Assistant Director
Recreation Department
Evansville, Indiana

ID YOU EVER want something to do on Sun-
day afternoon without knowing what you
wanted? After you had read the newspapers
did you ever want a substitute for that forced
retreat to the Sunday afternoon nap? Or have

390 CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES

you ever really felt alive on
Sunday afternoon? Can you
look back over a year of
Sunday afternoons that
were really crammed with
happy times? New faces?
And new scenes?

Those who have walked
with the Evansville Hiking
Club, joined in the singing
and laughter around the
campfires, have memories
of many profitably spent
Sunday afternoons and de-
lightful week—ends during the last four years.

In April, 1935, an outing club for men and
women was organized by the city recreation de-
partment as the Evansville Municipal Hiking
Club. The purpose of the club is to promote hik-
ing, camping, swimming, boating, tours to state
parks, and to further interest in out-of-door rec-
reation for adults.

Since the first hike, when two women and one
man braved the rain to walk three miles and cook
a picnic supper over a smoky fire built on the wet
ground, the club has evidenced an unquenchable
“will-to-hike.” Neither rain,'sleet, snow nor hail
dampens the hikers’ ardOr much. They have
tramped over icy fields when it’s been seven below
zero. They’ve crawled through unexplored caves
when it’s been thundering and lightning outside.
They’ve played games in old empty barns out in
the country to keep dry during sudden April
showers. Since the day the club was organized
there hasn’t been a single Sunday during its hik-
ing season (autUmn, winter and spring) without

a trip! An average of fifty persons attends each
hike.

Types of Hikes and Hikers

The Evansville club features three types of
hikes. The local or afternoon hike is planned for
inexperienced hikers and is ineXpensive. The
typical day trip takes in some interesting spot per-
haps sixty or severity miles from the city. The
week-end house party at a state park or some
scenic spot within the radius of two hundred
miles is planned for those who can get away Sat-
urday afternoons and Sundays. Longer trips are
arranged for those who can be away for two days.
Each hike is planned so that there is a definite
meeting place and some social activity such as
outdoor cooking, picnic supper, campfire singing,

llTo be genuinely successful. a hiking club
should have hiking as its main obiective,
but the organizer should also keep in mind
the need for social activities. A hiking club
should be co-recreational and made up of
adults, with no red tape involved in mem-
bership. It should be kept inexpensive and
friendly. Hike schedules should be careful-
ly planned. with definite leaders in charge
and with the hikes held at a time when the
maiority of members are not at work. The

obiectives of hikes should be out of the city
in the country, woods, or along a lake or

river. Above all, a hike should be fun!"

games or folk dancing at
the end of every hike. It
has been the custom for
each hiker to carry enough
food for one person plus
utensils for cooking. The
average hiker carries also a
thermos bottle filled with
coffee, hot chocolate, milk
0r water. Some hikers have
found that a knapsack is a
convenient way to take all
necessary equipment.

Comfortable shoes and
clothing suitable to the season are worn on the
hikes. Experienced women hikers wear boots and
riding breeches, snow suits, slacks or jodhpurs
which are not too tight at the knee. Men wear
walking shoes and riding or hunting clothes. Hik-
ers find leather or suede jackets better for going
through brush than wool sweaters.

The 225 members of the club are men and
women over sixteen years of age. Children may
go on hikes if their parents are hikers. College
professors, salesgirls, industrial workers, and
clerks have a olly time together. One of the most
enthusiastic hikers in the group is a postman who
rarely misses a hike; he says the sociability of the
walk makes it different from pounding the pave-
ment on week-days! The hikers are friendly and
welcome new members and guests, and many new-
comers in the city have found friends through the
group. The hikers are good sports. Cooperation
with property owners and with other members of
the'club for the good of everyone concerned is
manifested in the closing of gates, walking around "
the edge of planted fields, and climbing fences at
stiles. The men help the girls over streams and «
fences. '

They “Cover the Waterfront!”

The hikers have visited all the state parks with— ;
in a week-end distance of the city; walked for =
eight hours through Kentucky’s Mammoth Cave;
hiked through nearly every Indiana county; gone
on moonlight boat rides, and sponsored roller-
skating parties. One of the most exciting trips the
club ever took was in Harrison County, when
members spent two hours walking through an un-'
charted cave. To get to the entrance they walked
down a steep incline and then, tying ropes ardund '
their waists, swung over onto a narrow ledge. In
the cave they had lanterns as their only illumina-'

CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES 391

tion. Crawling around rocks and tree roots, they
looked through holes in the floor—vand couldn’t

see the bottom.

Indoor Social Affairs

In addition to outdoor activities, the club holds
indoor social affairs. The annual banquet is held
in November each year when officers for the com—
ing year are announced. At last year’s banquet
the program was built about the international
theme of “Hiking Over the World,” with Youth
Hostel songs and speeches on hiking and biking
in foreign countries. Other banquets have had the
Western Cowboy and Mexican ideas with decora-
tions and entertainment carrying out the themes.
The Birthday Party or Founders’ Day is cele—
brated in April each year, usually at one of the
week—end house parties at state parks. One year
it was celebrated with a Kid Party when each
member came dressed as a child and carrying an
excuse to be out later than eight o’clock. A birth-
day cake with candles is always featured. Games,
stunts and dramatic skits enliven the program.

Organization Simple

The organization of the Evansville Hiking Club
is simple. There is no constitution, only a few
rules and customs. The club observes the rules of
the department of conservation of the state in
which it hikes—Indiana, Kentucky or Illinois.
Dues of seventy—live cents per year, payable
twenty-live cents per season, cover expenses of
mailing notifications and bulletins, and pay for
decorations and programs for the banquets. The
club has not endeavored to build up a treasury as
it aims only to pay its own way. Each hiker pays
his own expenses while on a hike or trip. To save
embarrassing moments for the carless members,
the oflicers of the club have arranged that when a
member rides in some other member’s car he shall
pay one half cent per mile for the total distance
traveled. A mimeographed
bulletin stating the dates and
hours of scheduled events,
meeting places, expenses in—
volved, and the names of
the leaders is sent to each

club member three times a
year.

Officers of the club are
elected by written ballot of
the club members. Ballots
(Printed on postcards) are

I'Our community has realized how vital——
mentally, morally. sociallyI and from a civic
standpoint—a well-rounded co-recreational
program isI and how important it is that
this program be made available to every-
one regardless of age.-social position or
financial status. The Department of Recrea-
tion is happy to say that the co-recreational
activities instituted in Dearborn are among
the most popular of the entire program.
The only difficulty encountered is that of
securing capable and interested leaders.’l

enclosed with the autumn bulletins to be returned
to the Recreation Department office by a certain
date. The only office of the club that is non-elec—
tive is that of secretary-treasurer, as the assistant
recreation director tills this post, thus keeping the
club closely affiliated with the city Recreation De-
partment. The officers have charge of organizing
the hikes and planning all details. The general
members of the club have opportunities to serve
as hike leaders and committee members and to
turn their special talents to account in services
such as leading games, or making favors for
parties.

Take the Zephyr Club,

for Example

By HENRY D. SCHUBER'I‘

Superintendent of Recreation
Dearborn' Michigan

PEAKING OF SUCCESSFUL wide—awake young
S people’s clubs, take the Zephyr Club of Dear-
born, Michigan, for example! The group,
organized in 1938 from the remnants of the
Youth Incorporated movement, numbers approxi-
mately one hundred young men and women be-
tween the ages of eighteen and thirty. The pri—
mary objective of the club is to promote a varied,
wholesome leisure time program of physical, edu—
cational, and social activities. The organization
supports itself through the payment of monthly
dues and the sponsorship of special activities
which attract public support. The club is spon-
sored by the Recreation Department and is under
the supervision of an executive committee com-
posed of interested adults. The officers of the or-
ganization compose a board of control which
meets once a month to dis-
cuss policy and program
plans. Meetings are in the
club house, rented from the
Y.VV.C.A. for the last four
days of each week. The
rent fee entitles the club to
the services of a chaperon
who is present continually.
Two Thursdays of the
month are devoted to busi-
ness meetings. Friday eve—

392 CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREEITIONAL OBJECTIVES

nings are reserved for special parties, and Sunday
the club house is kept open all day. Sunday ac-
tivities, beginning in the morning, are: breakfast,
horseback riding, hiking, skating, pot luck sup-
pers. Two evenings are devoted to lectures de-
livered by imported speakers. Lectures have been
delivered on the subjects of narcotics, Federal
Bureau of Investigation, vocations, traffic rules,
delinquency, sports, dramatics, and the Youth
Hostel Movement.

Some of the other features of the Zephyr Club
program include social and old time dancing,
bicycle riding, hay rides, all kinds of suppers and
breakfasts, box socials, holiday parties, basketball
and softball teams, panel discussions, millionaire
parties, roasts, scavenger and treasure hunts, pic-
nics, music, dramatics and formal parties. The
members are enthusiastic, aggressive and keenly
alert to develop and make their club a permanent,
growing organization.

The Dearborn Zephyr Club is especially de-
signed to take care of that group of young people
who, upon graduation from high school, find
themselves without the social participation possi-
bilities which they enjoyed in school. The club
serves as a means of adjustment to community
social practices. Boys and girls are given oppor-
tunities to observe, to participate in, and to direct
community activities; this training helps them to
become mature social individuals. Every member
of the club cultivates a sympathetic, friendly at-
titude to his fellow members. The personnel of
the club consists of laborers, stenographers, news-
paper reporters, musicians, an artist, college stu-
dents, store clerks, dentists, public officials, and
other professional people.

On January 29th, the club celebrated in gala
style its first birthday as the Dearborn Zephyr
Club with the parents and friends of the mem-

bers as guests. Mayor John L. Carey delivered

the principal address.

A High School Recreation Club

By JACK JAMES
Parkersburg. West Virginia

HIGH spo'r in the school week for many a
high school student in Parkersburg, West

Virginia, is the three-quarter hour period
when the Recreation Club meets for games in the

gym. This club is one of the most interesting and

successful co—recreational activities sponsored by
the city Board of Recreation. Although adult
leadership is provided for the club by the Board,
boys and girls are encouraged to take part in di-
recting their own games. This sort of training,
the Board feels, not only builds mental and phy-
sical alertness but demonstrates how to use lei-
sure time to advantage and strengthens in stu-
dents the qualities of fellowship and sportsman-
ship that come from association in play.

The club, which meets once a week for twelve
weeks during each semester, has been in progress
for two years and has had an enrollment of 240
students. The use of the gym has been provided
and the club period is from 12:45 to I :30 P. M.
The club is open to both boys and girls of the
Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes, but it has
been limited so as not to number over sixty-five
members. The average attendance for a sixty-
five member class is about sixty.

The program for a twelve week period consists
of three different types of games: active, quiet,
and rhythmic.

In the active type of games, the high and low
organized games are divided and given on sepa-
rate da'ys. The quiet games include brain teasers,
pencil and paper games, mixers, and mental
games. The rhythmic games consist of folk
dances, children’s singing games, and games with
songs. Thus, a four type standard is used in
planning the program for twelve weeks. The fol-
lowing is a sample program covering four weeks:

First Week. Low 4. Who Am I?
Organized Games 5. Simon Says
1. Over and Under Relay Third Week.
2. Squirrel in the Tree High Organized Games
3. Dizzy Izzy Relay 1. Volleyball
4. Club Snatch 2. Corner Ball
5. Crows and Cranes 3. Indoor Softball Game
Second Week. Quiet Games (alternate)

l. Barter Fourth Week.
2. True and False Rhythmic Games
Questions 1. Hickory Dickory Dock

3. Twenty Questions 2. Virginia Reel

We in the Parkersburg recreation department
are well pleased with the high school Recreation,
Club. The eagerness with which the boys and
girls take part in the activity and the repeated re-
quests for the opportunity to rejoin the club have
proved its popularity.

To any other recreation department that is con-.
sidering such a project it is needless to point out '
that generous cooperation of school authorities is,
essential not only in arranging for gymnasium

CLUBS FURTHER CO-RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES 393

space and time, but in promoting the program as
a whole effectively. Where such cooperation
exists, the possibilities of this type of service are
great. The high school club need not necessarily
be a noon hour club, of course. Sometimes an
after school or evening club suits a particular
group better.

Schenectady's Otyokwa Club

By MARGARET C. HARRISON
Club Secretary
Young Women's Christian Association
Schenectady. New York

HE OTYOKWA CLUB, sponsored by the Young

VVomen’s Christian Association and the Young

Men’s Christian Association of Schenectady,
New York, was organized in 1930 to meet the
recreational and social needs of local young
women and of young men, chiefly college men,
who come to the city each year from all over the
country to begin their careers as engineers or ac-
countants in the General Electric plant. The idea
was first presented to a group of eight women and
eight men, and since that time the idea and its
possibilities have grown until one needs merely
talk with a member to realize the enthusiasm
stirred up by the fellowship and activities of the
club.

The present constitution establishes the execu-
tive functions in a committee made up of the
president, three vice-presidents (promoting mem-
bership, special interests and program respective-
ly), a secretary, treasurer, and the club secretaries
of the Y.VV.C.A. and the Y.M.C.A. When the
president is a man, the second vice-president and
the secretary are also men, and the other officers
women; the following year the arrangement is
reversed. This committee, in monthly meetings,
evaluates and coordinates
the program of the club
and otherwise keeps the
machinery in working
condition. A monthly bul-
letin keeps the member-
ship informed not only
of the club program but
of interesting bits of
news concerning mem-
bers of the club and of
special musical, dramatic

or art programs scheduled for the capitol district
———this is, Albany, Troy, and Schenectady.

When They “Step Out”

In its nine years of existence a number of tra-
ditions have of course been established, and cer-
tain things must be done each year, such as climb-
ing Mount Marcy, holding an amateur night, an
anniversary dinner, a May Day breakfast, and a
gymkhana. In a general way the schedule consists
of a “regular meeting” once a month, at which the
program is more or less cultural; a social meeting
once a month, which may be a dance, a dinner, or
some other sort of party; special occasion dances;
Saturday afternoon outings (hiking, skiing, skat-
ing, toboganning, swimming) ; and occasional
week-end mountain trips.

The regular meetings this past season have been
devoted to a talk on the early history of the local
region, a talk and colored movies of the National
Parks, a peace play, a talk and movies on Labra-
dor by the son of Sir Wilfred Grenfell, a talk
on honey and the honey bee, a talk on city gov-
ernment by the City Manager, and a book talk by
a librarian. (During the summer months the
regular meetings take the form of outings, gen—
erally including a swim and a meal.) After each
program there is a social hour and refreshments
are served.

The social meetings have included a scavenger
hunt, a Christmas dinner dance (formal), a skat—
ing party followed by a wafHe supper, a Valen—
tine party, an amateur night when practically
every member had a part, and a gymkhana
(games in the gymnasium and a swim in the
pool). The special dances have been the Hal-
lowe’en dance in appropriate costumes, a Thanks-
giving semi—formal, a winter dance, also semi-
formal, and a St. Patrick’s dance which was
informal.

For the Saturday afternoon outings swimming

(Continued on page 417)

 

V

introducing Boys and Girls to Co-Recreation

O-RECREATION has taken
C its place today as an
important means to
social adjustment because it
helps to lay a foundation for social poise, friend-
ship and companionship among boys and girls.
The problem which now faces many teachers is
how a program of co-recreation may be presented
so that boys and girls will like it and want to en-
large upon it.

There are four important aspects to the prob-
lem: first, who shall have the responsibility of
introducing and conducting co-recreational activi-
ties; second, to what extent should these activities
be included in the physical education program;
third, what activities are best adapted to co-recre-
ation; and fourth, how shall they be introduced?

The responsibility for introducing this phase of
the program rests with members of the physical
education department—both men and women. It
is not always an easy subject to present, and one
of the essentials is that it be done by people who
are interested in it themselves and who have con-
tacts with boys and girls. For best results mem-
bers of both departments should share responsi-
bility jointly.

Co-recreation is conducted for recreational
purposes—to bring about a feeling of good fel-
lowship, a good healthy interest in the activities
of the opposite sex, and a knowledge of the
pleasure derived from playing with mixed groups.
The aim is not to teach skills; therefore the ex-
tent to which these activities should be included
in the program is comparatively small. It is suf-
ficient for them to occur every four, six or eight
weeks during regular class time, and more fre-
quently during noon hour periods and after
school, depending 011 the facilities available. A
mixed group may be brought together naturally
at the end of a sport season
or tournament. For example,
after boys and girls have had
separate badminton and ping-
pong tournaments, mixed
doubles will easily follow.

What activities are most
adaptable to co—recreation?
This is not the place to list

394

District,

By ELEANOR W. CHAMBERLIN
Scarsdale High School
ScarsdaleI New York

No discussion of co-recreation would be
complete without a presentation of the
subject from the school's point of view.
And so we are publishing the talk given
by Miss Chamberlin at the meeting of
the Women's Athletic Sectionl Eastern
American
Health. Physical Education. and Recrea-
tionI held in New York City last May.

activities in detail; suffice it
to say that any activity not
involving body contact and
not requiring advanced skill
for enjoyment may justifiably be included in the
program. These activities will include individual
and team games and dancing. The list becomes
endless depending upon equipment, time, space
and interest.

As to the final question of how co-recreation
shall be introduced, the introduction should be
gradual, but the approach may vary. If possible,
it should come through some desire shown by the
students themselves. \Nhen a group of boys and
girls show interest in playing together, capitalize
upon that interest by arranging a time when they
may do it. When they want activities that are
not well adapted to mixed groups, such as basket-
ball, try to redirect their interests to a sport better
suited to both. Schools that have club periods
may use those to advantage for introducing co—
recreation, and the opportunity for noontime

activity is great. Social dancing fits in readin at
times such as these.

Class Organization

Class organization on a co-recreational basis
may take three forms: (1) two entire classes may
be combined; (2) students may elect to play; and
(3) only those who have attained a required
amount of skill may enter. Perhaps each form ,
has its rightful place, since children who have not
learned the fundamental skills may not enjoy
mixed classes, and those who definitely do not :
want to play in mixed groups will be a detriment.
When only parts of the classes are combined some
form of activity must be provided for the remain-
ing group.

Because our ultimate aim is co-recreation for
all, combining entire classes
is of more vital importance.
Where there are leaders’
groups within the school, let
these be the entering wedge..-
As a concrete example, we
have the following case of a
mixed volleyball game at the

(Continued on page 418)

Association for

 

The EvolutiOn of Flint’s Co-Ed Night

HIS DEPRESSION hit Flint and
Tother industrial cities like it a

little harder, perhaps, than
many communities, so that the
problem of recreation for the unemployed and
their families has been a real one from the first of
those difficult years. The Young VVomen’s Chris-
tian Association, as well as other social agencies,
soon saw that the young people who had been in
their clubs, as well as many with whom they had
no contact, had need for a new type of inexpen-
sive recreation—something different from that
which the Y.\V.C.A. had been offering.

As the Y.W.C.A. had a good sized building to
use, a little money in the budget for experimenta-
tion, and at that time a fairly adequate sized stafic
for supervision, it was thought desirable to make
some study of the needs and the resources of the
community for meeting them. As a result, a pro-
gram for boys and girls out of school was ini-
tiated on a small scale in the fall of 1930. By 1939
the “Co-ed night” had developed into one of the
most interesting and perhaps most needed parts

By MARIE WATTERS of
Y.W.C.A.
Flint. Michigan

the Association’s program.
For the first few weeks there
were weekly dances in the gym-
nasium. Then classes along the
line of the then popular “Charm School” were
started for the girls who wanted to come before
time for the dance. The next year the program
was expanded, with more classes and other rec-
reational features besides dancing, and boys were
included in the entire evening’s activities.

Solving Problems

More and more young people continued to be
attracted. Some came out of curiosity, some with
genuine interest, others who wanted a “hang-out”
but had little regard for organized programs. The
influx of the latter presented an additional prob-
lem, as the budget and staff had been reduced and
there was not enough money to employ the lead-
ers needed. Volunteers gave of their time, there
was some F.E.R.A. assistance, and a few special-
ized instructors were paid. To try to take care
of the problem of those who seemed to have no

395

396 THE EVOLUTION OF FLINT’S CO~ED NIGHT

interest except to hang around the halls and create
disturbance, the plan was tried of making class at-
tendance compulsory in order to attend the dance.
That plan was followed until this year.

It took a great deal of patience and understand-
ing during those first years of working on indi-
vidual problems to discover ways of gradually
bringing the most asocial into the group. It took
enthusiasm and a faith in youth to convince those
responsible for the upkeep of the building that it
was worth the toll, for part of the time one did
not know what to expect “the morning after the
night before.” Undoubtedly the furniture in the
Flint Y.VV.C.A. is far more worn than it other—
wise would have been, the fioors are marred and
the pianos scratched, but it is not true that in the
program the seventeen to twenty-five year old
youth are the forgotten group.

The program year of 1938—39 seems to many
who have watched its development through the
period of years to be superior in many ways. A
number of reasons for this are evident. There has
been a natural process of stabilization. A nucleus
of leaders among the participants has been a
part of it long enough so that they help assimilate
newcomers. There has been a constant training of
leadership by staff members who were skilled ‘in
working with groups. It is no longer just a co-
ed “night”; it is a co-ed “club.”

A Council, elected by the group, determines the
policies and program. For instance, it was their
decision that classes need no longer be compul-
sory. The Council meets for a few minutes each
week to discuss immediate problems and once a
month spends a longer time on future plans. Be-
sides making plans for the group, these young
men and women of the Council are alert all eve-
ning to see that things are running smoothly.
One or two of them stay at the registration desk
most of the time. Here they help welcome new-
comers and watch out for those who seem most
timid or perhaps do not have even the small fee
required. One of the girls of the Council was
overheard talking with a shy girl who had been
coming to the group for two or three weeks but
staying on the fringes. She discovered that the
girl was so eager to come that she had walked
from an outlying part of the city, a distance of
over four miles, and expected to do the same at
the end of the evening. The Council member and
her escort took the girl home. The time and em-
phasis given to the development of a Council and
training them for leadership responsibility have

begun to show and undoubtedly add to this year’s
success.

Another problem has been pretty well solved
by the adopting and executing of a policy to ex-
clude high school students. The program was
never for them, but some leniency was shown in
accepting them., It was soon evident that the two
groups could not satisfactorily be included, and
for a while the older group dropped out because

of the “kids.”
Not only greater variety but greater depth of

program has been possible this year because of
new community resources which will be discussed
as this year’s setup is given.

An Evening of Co—Education

And now perhaps you would like to follow a
boy or girl through one of these co-ed evenings.
But first you may ask who comes and how they
know about it.

The first publicity, and occasionally some since,

.was sent out to the continuation school, employ-

ment offices, stores, churches and newspapers.
Now that the program is established publicity
seems unnecessary except through news items and
notices to members, who bring in their friends.
The total enrollment in this program year is
375; interestingly enough there are 188 boys and
187 girls. Attendance has run from 85 to 125.
Seventy-seven of those enrolled are between the
ages of sixteen and eighteen. The rest, except
twelve who are older than twenty-five, fall in the
nineteen to twenty-four year age group. One
hundred thirty-four of them this year have no
jobs at all. The jobs held by the rest, some part‘
time, represent forty-eight different kinds of '
work. Clerks, factory workers, household em-
ployees, and restaurant workers outnumber the
rest, although there is a goodly sprinkling of stu-
dents from Junior College, business college and
General Motors Institute of Technology. Eighty—
two are either first or second generation foreign
born as might be expected from Flint’s population.

A Busy Place on Wednesday Night!

On W ednesday evenings, from seven o'clock on,
the first floor lobby of the Y.VV.C.A. is a busy
place. A registration desk is set up at one end
and at the other is a free check room. This latter
is more important than it might first appear for
the Council members are insistent that it be used,
not just because they cannot be responsible for
wraps left elsewhere, but because they expect

THE EVOLUTION OF FLINT’S CO-ED NIGHT

members to come in and stay for the evening and
appear and feel at home. At the registration desk
some of the most important contacts are made.
New members here fill out enrollment cards and
find out about classes offered. Every member
stops at the desk and checks in. This gives the
registrar an opportunity to get acquainted with
people and find out something of their problems
which can be followed up later. Tickets for the
dance are sold here for ten cents; this small fee
which provides money to pay the orchestra is the

' only one required.

One of the registrar's jobs is to take care tact-
fully of those who come without money. Tickets
are given free or often club or Council members
take care of it. The rest of the expense is borne
by the Industrial Department of the Y.V\’.C.A.
whose committee and staff are responsible for this
as well as the rest of that department’s work. Last
year, when a reduced budget of the Y.V\’.C.A.
made curtailment in this department seem immi-
nent, many individuals and a few organizations in
the community came to the rescue with sums all
the way from twenty-five cents to twenty-five
dollars. One of the organizations which not only
helped financially but with volunteer leaders is
the Business and Professional VVomen’s Club.
Two of their members have had charge of the
registration desk all year.

After registration and wraps are disposed of,
members proceed to the second Hoor for classes or
wait around the lobby for friends or go in the
lounge, if there is time, for the spaciousness and
furnishings there provide an atmosphere and de—
velop a poise in meeting
friends.

Classes and Still
More Classes

The classes are ar-
ranged so that one may
take two in one evening
if desired. Ballroom

Such councils of young
men as that function-
ing at the Flint' Michi-
gan. Y. W. C. A.. are
helping in a number of
cities to make co-recrea-
tion programs successful

397

dancing, one of the most popular, runs in two
shifts to take care of those who want to learn the
new steps and be ready for the dance at the end
of the evening. Another group, very different but
almost equally popular, was one called “Personal
Interests.” This was in reality a preparation for
the marriage course taught by the health education
director of the Clara Elizabeth Fund, a private
foundation working with the Public Health De-
partment. The response and frankness of discus-
sions were interesting and gratifying. That course
is being followed by one suggested by the Coun-
cil and named by them “Etiquette.” It includes
instruction in the etiquette of the “hostess,” of
“courtship,” or “eating out,” and different speak-
ers have been secured for each course. The
series will close with a discussion of a wedding.

A number of musical groups have been tried
with varying success according to the leadership
available. Tap dancing had its appeal; a few
wanted an art class, but not enough to keep a
teacher; and crafts classes have interested a few.
It is evident that these young folks want most to
learn how to get along with people.

A Guidance Center

A new class was tried this year which was an
experiment in the community. A guidance center
for vacational counseling has been established,
financed by a private foundation together with the
Community Fund. Both the Y.M.C.A. and Y.VV.
C.A. were used for making the necessary con-
tacts with out—of-school youth. The staff of the

(Continued on. page 419)

 

Co-Recrea‘cion in the  A.——a Symposium

In addition to the preceding article telling in some detail of programs
in a number of local Y.W.C.A.’s, brief descriptions are given here of some
of the co-recreational activities conducted in a few other associations

mittee. The duties of a dance committee

are made pleasant in New Haven, Con-
necticut, where young men and women commit-
tee members meet at monthly supper meetings,
held in turn at homes of the fourteen members.
After supper they plan the program, arrange for
the orchestra, draw up announcements for the
three Saturday dances per month, and have a
social gathering. At the dance the committee
leads the Paul Jones, acts as hosts and hostesses,
serves the punch. Six boys handle the check
room in rotation so that all may have opportunity
to dance. From Marjorie Lnndvall, New Haven
Y.\V.C.A. '

"Play Night Has Become Quite Popular," says
the Omaha, Nebraska, Y.W.C.A. of its monthly
young people’s open house night. On these 0c-
casions the whole building is humming with ac-
tivities fitted into every available space: the gym
for badminton and ping—pong; the gym balcony
for shuffleboard; the lobby for box hockey (which
is noisily and enthusiastically enjoyed). The
north and south parlors are dedicated to table
games, cards, darts, ring toss, bean bags and pick-
up-sticks. At eleven o’clock there is always danc-
ing in the gym. Admission is free to Y.W.C.A.
members; ten cents to outsiders. Pop, candy and
popcorn are sold. The Play Nites are in charge of
Council groups. 1 One girl is in charge of each
activity for a Nite, several girls acting as hos—

tesses for each evening. From Edith Koehler,
Omaha Y.\V.C.A.

Swimming Clubs a Co-Recreational Success. When
health education classes began to slump in Novem-
ber, the Sioux City Y.W.C.A. Board questioned:
“Have folks stopped going places? If not, where
do they go and what attracts them? And so What
should the Y.W.C.A. offer P” The conclusion was
that people do not go places in groups and they
like mixed or co-recreational activities. As a re-
sult, various mixed activities were promoted with
great success. One of these was the Junior Mari—
ner Club, a swimming club (for boys and girls

398

MONTHLY Supper Meeting for Dance Com-

aged 13—17) whose only requisites were some
swimming skill and a desire to improve skills
under training. The group enjoys a hard work-
out in the pool followed by a noisy good time at a
supper meeting and then another hour of singing

and games. From Julia Wilcox, General Secre-
tary, Sioux City Y.W.C.A.

Chaperones Still Have a Place. The Y.W.C.A.
advocates enlisting the support of mature hostesses
or chaperons for all evening dances. Members of
the P.T.A., Y.W.C.A. committee women and their
husbands, and other qualihed adults have willingly
volunteered to assist at Y.W.C.A. dances in
Moline, Illinois, Sioux City, Iowa, and many other
places where highly successful affairs of this type
are held. “No Y.W.C.A. secretary should con—
duct an evening dance without the backing of such
adult volunteers,” says Edith Gates, Director

Health Education, National Board, Y.W.C.A.

Saturday Nite Club in Moline. Saturday night
is a night on which young people specially want to
go places and do things. This need has been met
in Moline, Illinois, by a Saturday Nite Club open
to high school students only, sponsored by Y.M.
CA. and Y.W.C.A. Badminton, shuffleboard,
pool, ping-pong, Chinese checkers, pick-up-sticks, ,
radio are among the activities enjoyed. From'
Mrs. Betty Veterane, Secretary, Y.W.C.A. ‘

Adult Play Nite in Wichita. Play Nite is divided
into three parts: (1) Games such as shuffleboard,
ping-pong, table checkers and hand badminton;
(2) More active games such as social mixers, re-
lays and stunts. In this division, one game is
played for boys and one for girls only. (3) Rhyth—
mic work such as a circle dance, a reel type of
dance, square dancing. Then some popular step
like the Lambeth Walk is taught, and the eve-
ning ends with social dancing. Among the volun-
teer groups which help to put on these affairs are
members of the morning gym class and their hus-
bands, members of the health council, and groups’

of college students. From June E. Morell,
Wichita, Kansas, Y.W.C.A.

‘

l

!

It’s Easy to Have Fun!

Especially when there's a "Y"
Outing Club which is ready to .
otter you recreational oppor-
tunities ranging trom sailing
and canoeing to concerts!

ICNICS, outdoor steak roasts, sailing,

horseback rides, mountain climbing,

canoeing, bicycle rides, motoring,
bowling, ice and roller skating, ski
trips, toboganning, maple sugar parties,
fall foliage trips, swimming, week-end
and eight-day camping trips, concerts,
theater parties. lectures and socials—
pick your favorites and sign up!

That’s how easy it is for members of the
Boston “Y” Outing Club to have fun. This
club for young men and women was organized
four years ago by some folks who had learned
from previous occasional outings that outdoor
life is fun. They limited membership to in-
terested young people eighteen to thirty-five
years of age. They decided that it should not
be necessary for a man to belong to the
Y.M.C.A. in order to join the club, but they
penalized him a little if he did not! They set
the annual membership fee at $.25 for “Y”
members, $2.00 for non-members and $1.00 for
girls. Since its organization, theroriginal mem-
bership of forty has grown to 315. In June
there were I69 men and I46 women. The
number and variety of activities has kept pace
with the growing membership and last month
there were thirty—eight activities (more than
one a day) from which to choose.

A great many people think of summer week-
ends as their only out~of—doors opportunities,
while others limit their outdoor life to a one or
two weeks’ vacation. The Outing Club, how—
ever, operates the year round, adjusting its
program to the season, and offering to its
members continuous opportunities for vacation
highlights. This is how it is done. Each year
two girls and three men are selected by the
club members to serve as a planning com—

3

 

By C. LESLIE UPDEGRAPH

Young Men's Secretary
Huntington Avenue Branchl Y.M.C.A.

Boston, Massachusetts

mittee. The committee elects its own chair-
man and, working with a secretary of the
Y.M.C.A., makes whatever policy decisions are
necessary and plans the monthly schedule of
events.

Each month a meeting of the club is held
when movies are shown or lectures given on
subjects of interest to outdoor enthusiasts. This
is followed by a stunt, skit or comedy act pre-
pared and presented by members of the group.
The schedule of events for the coming month
is distributed (it is later mailed to absentees)
and the program closes with a social period
and refreshments.

The monthly schedule is always eagerly
awaited. It is like an elaborate menu, people
picking out those events which most suit their
tastes or their pocketbooks. It usually contains
a few surprises and its release rings the gong
for reservation making. There follows a rush
for the sign-up book, and a flood of phone
calls from folks who wish to get their names

399

400 IT’S EASY TO HAVE FUN!

on certain lists before they are filled to
capacity.

It is easy to make reservations. N o deposits
are required. The member’s credit is good.
On the basis of the reservation list prepara—
tions are completed. Commitments are made
for food, supplies, theater tickets, transporta-
tion and sleeping accommodations, often to the
tune of several hundred dollars, yet nothing
is collected from the member until he starts
on the trip. On some events we announce a
date after which cancellations will not be ac-
cepted. On some others, each reservation is
final, but the general rule applying to all events
is stated as follows: “If, when reservations
are cancelled, we have made advance guaran-
tees involving expense on our part, you will be
held responsible for the amount involved.” The
system works. In four years’ time we have

written off about $2.00.

And It’s Inexpensive, Too

The Outing Club has shown that it is not
only easy to have fun but that it is inexpensive
as well. In July 1938, we conducted our first
week’s vacation trip. Our destination was Mt.
Katahdin in Maine. \Ve had interesting stop-
overs en route for sight seeing, swimming, and
outdoor meals around a campfire. \Ve took in
Mt. Cadillac and visited the great paper mill
at Millinocket. We packed our blankets and
food up to Chimney Pond and spent three days
climbing over Mt. Katahdin’s peaks and its
famous knife edge, sleeping at night in open
shelters. In returning to Boston we crossed
the huge Ripogenus Dam, canoed on Moose-
head Lake, and drove back through the White
Mountain area of New Hampshire. Fun and
fellowship ruled the trip to such an extent that
the group who called themselves the Maine—
iacs later held a reunion banquet where two of
the girls introduced a song and one of the men
a poem, both written to commemorate the
happy occasion. And the cost for the entire
week, including food, transportation and every-
thing was less than twenty dollars.

We took a three-day Labor Day week—end
trip to the Adirondacks in New York State for
$7.50, and for $5.25 we offered our annual
Maple Sugar week-end this year. One hundred
and ten members signed up for the latter,
necessitating our dividing the group and con-

ducting two trips on consecutive weeks. \Ve
stayed at an old New England Guest House
which dates back to an original grant by the
King of England. The local Grange sponsored
an old-fashioned dance in our honor, and the
Mayor and Secretary of the Chamber of Com-
merce were there to welcome us. We visited a
sugar orchard, pausing to drink raw sap from
the pails hanging on the maple trees and to
have our pictures taken with the oxen which
are used to collect the pails of sap. Then on
to the sugar house where the sap is evaporated
into maple syrup, for a sugaring off party. This
included the opportunity for each one to whip
up a dish of hot syrup until it became maple
sugar; to pour hot syrup on snow and eat the
resultant crispy maple sugar “frogs”; and to
top it off with coffee, doughnuts and sour
pickles. Then an afternoon of skiing, a late
dinner and the time had arrived to start home.
Not bad for $5.25, is it?

Ski and mountain climbing week-ends cost as
little as $2.50 or may run up to $5.00, depend-
ing on the distance covered and the accommo-
dations provided.

For those who lack the time or money for
week-end trips, there is a wealth of local
events of varied types and costs from which to
choose. During the last year we have had 281:
events attended by 3933 men and 3466 young
women. The average cost per event was 37%:
cents. Not too expensive, is it?

Some of the Club’s Accomplishments

We are frequently asked just what is ac-
complished by the program of the Outingf
Club. In the first place, it clearly develops.
and deepens one’s interest in the out—of-doors.':
Some folks feel that man was not intended to
spend his time indoors; that crowded city life.
is unnatural; that there dwells in most of usl
an instinctive interest (though often dormant) "
in outdoor life. The Outing Club provides af
vehicle through which young people may thus!
compensate for busy city existence. I

In the second place it also teaches a variety
of outdoor skills. When they first join, most
of the members belong in the novice class.
Soon they are introduced to new skills. Theyl
learn to roller skate, ride a horse, ski or ride:
a bike; to climb a mountain without undue
fatigue or build a campfire, to prepare a meal

 
    
   
 
 

 

i grounds, they foresee
l danger ahead for us.
l The dangers are more

IT’S EASY TO HAVE FUN! 401

or tote a well packed knapsack. They learn the
joy that comes with personal accomplishment.

In the third place the club provides a high
type of sociability and friendliness. A big city
can be a lonely place for young people. \Vhat
better aids to friendship are there than through
participation in outdoor activities? The in-
formality of dress, the give and take of banter,
songs and stunts around the campfire, climb—
ing side by side up a mountain trail, a sunset,
hilarious laughter, wisecracking—all lend
themselves toward the breakdown of reserve
and unnaturalness. Good fellowship and good
sportsmanship are the club’s dominant em-
phasis. Few of its members join as couples.
Most of them come “stag.” The club is by no
means a matrimonial agency and its members
have no appearance of being lonely hearts. Yet,
several marriages have resulted from friend-
ships formed in the club. It is an excellent
proving ground. A young couple should have

the opportunity of see-
ing each other not only
at their best but also
at their worst. If a
boy can see a girl
dead tired, rain soaked
and wind blown; if
a girl can observe
whether a boy accepts
the give and take of
cooperative living by
submerging personal
wishes for the benefit
of the good of the
whole; if they see each
other under these cir-
oumstances and still
are in love, well, it
doesn’t augur too
poorly for their future
happiness, does it?
Some folks ask
about the standards
which we try to main-
tain. With three hun-
dred young people of
different personal
standards and back-

 

imagined than real. Before a young person
joins the club we suggest that he go on some
event of his choice as a visitor. It gives us a
means of sizing up prospective members and,
what is just as important, it allows them to
look us over and determine if we are the kind
of folks with whom they wish to become
affiliated. We have an active and enthusiastic
membership. We want to keep it so for we
are not interested in merely collecting mem—
bership fees. We believe that if we must err,
we should do so in making our standards too
high rather than too low. We have few rules,
but it is thoroughly understood in the club
that alcoholic beverages have no place in any
event connected with the Outing Club. When
this is disregarded we explain that we have
neither the right nor the desire to dictate
another’s way of life but as far as the club’s
activities are concerned the individual must
either give up liquor or give up the club.
When away on week-
end trips every effort
is made for those who
wish it to attend Mass.
For those who remain
at camp a brief devo-
tional service is held
with either the leader
or members of the
group conducting it.
At no time in the
history of the club has
there been any mem-
bership promotion. We
still harbor the old-
fashioned idea that if
a program is really
good enough, if it is
well conducted and
actually meets the
needs and interests of
young people, there
will be no lack of
members. Information
about the club is
passed along from
friend to friend. One
enthusiast recently
counted thirty-three
present members

(Continued on page 420)

Co-Recreation at the University of Wisconsin

Where interest groups rather than mass recrea-
tion are the basis of the cot-recreation program

LTIIOUGH many leisure-time ac-
tivities of students are segre-

gated along sex lines, the col—
lege campus is the scene for more
co—recreation than is any other
area. Groups of college age utilize their leisure
time more frequently in co—recreatio'n than do

other age groups.

Wisconsin leaders in recreation early recognized
the advantages of handling students in relatively
cohesive social groupings rather than as a mass
student body. Important examples are the resi-
dent groups: fraternities, sororities, dormitory
houses, and organized rooming houses. Recrea-
tion is planned for these groups on an inter—
house basis. While this program is not essentially
co-recreational, the grouping is pertinent to this
discussion because so many co—recreational ac-
tivities based on interest groupings are organized
and publicized through the medium of house units.

Other examples of cohesive social groupings
result from a community of interest among the
members. The program at Wisconsin for these
groups is definitely co-recreational. Most of the
discussion of this paper is concerned with the co-
recreational experiences of students in special in-
terest and multi-interest groups.

Findings of a Study

By REUBEN L. HILL
and

MARY MACKECHNIE

may partially account for the thou—
sands participating in this mass
coerecreational activity.

Table I is a presentation of the
relative popularity of co-recrea-
tional activities among Wisconsin students at the
time this study took place.

TABLE I
The Popularity of Co-Recreational Leisure Time Pursuits,
Ranked According to the Total Number of Students Who

Participate in Each, IEfither Regularly or Occasionally.

Percent of Students

Activity Who Participate Rank
Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 84.40 1

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73.60 2

Out Door Exercise  . . . . . . . .. 68.30 3

Sports Spectator . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58.20 4

Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 51.80 5

Sports Participator . . . . . . . . . . .. 48.50 6

Parlor Dates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 41.20 7

Union Lectures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 36.80 8

Student Organizations . . . . . . . .. 36.70 9

Concerts . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 34.40 10

Dra‘matics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 34.00 11

Hobbies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24.10 12

Forums and Debates . . . . . . . . .. 15.90 13

Teas and Receptions . . . . . . . . . .. 11.50 14

Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8.60 15

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.83 16

 

 

Outdoor sports are largely co-recreational at

Wisconsin, thanks to the interest of both sexes in,
hiking, canoeing, cycling, skiing, skating, tobog—'
ganing and swimming. The Wisconsin Hoofers; :
the outing club, sponsors all these outdoor excur— I
sions: and they are usually for mixed groups; .'
Faculty members as well as students participate as r
members and leaders. ‘

A study of leisure time utilization was made at
the University of Wisconsin in 1934.* Among the
findings of this research was the fact that more
than 75% of all students were involved in leisure
time activity arising out of interest in the other
sex, one of the main drives in co—recreation. This

type of activity absorbed 8.4% of the leisure time

of \Nisconsin students. Cards probably do not play a large role as a

co-recreational activity at Wisconsin since most
of- the card playing on this campus appears to be I
in segregated groups. During the recent depres— :
sion bridge became popular in the Union for'
mixed groups and an occasional mixed tourna—
ment took place, but in general this activity hasi
lost its allure as economic conditions have;

improved.

Dancing as a co—recreational activity is partici-
pated in by 73.6% of the students. This' includes
a variety of dances ranging from the formal
Junior Prom to the folk dancing organized last
year by jitterbug fans. Classes in ballroom danc-
ing reach several hundred students yearly, which

 

   

 

Use of Leisure, 1934_ ' - ‘ ONCE and Student

402

l
l

i
l

E

_ 1"

I

CO-RECREATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 403

Over two hundred student leaders serve on
house committees of the Wisconsin Union, plan—
ning and administering a social and recreational
program for the student body. (See Table II
which lists the typical activities making up. the
program.) Working closely with this group are
church centers, clubs, and other special interest
groups planning their own Special social events.

Dramatic groups have fine opportunities in
campus co-recreation. Studio productions, varsity
plays, Operettas, and radio broadcasts form a pro-
gram to which hundreds of students are attracted
yearly. Several dramatic clubs of mixed mem-
bership operate in play writing and play produc—
tion, giving students the opportunity of moving
up the ladder from the status of apprentices to
full-fledged players.

Music-minded students of both sexes enjoy
phonograph symphony concerts in a special music
room at the Union.. The selection process which
takes place here brings to the Music Room a
highly congenial co-recreational group. Other
music experiences for mixed groups include the
mixed choruses, community sings, a Christmas
festival and pageant “Numen Lumen,” and the
many concerts sponsored by the Union.

Hobby groups find congenial atmosphere in the
informal art and hobby worksh0p in the new
Union building. Opportunity to putter with or
without instruction has resulted in creative work
in this place of co-recreation. Picture framing,
linoleum blocks for Christmas cards and small
scale carpentry are activities which bring boys and
girls together directly through common interests.

One of the last activities mentioned by students,
but important from the standpoint of co-recrea—
tion is the group labeled “teas, receptions, lunch-
cons, and coffee hours,” where students of both
sexes meet with faculty members. The advantages
of the small college with its reputation for in-
formality and intimacy are attained in some meas-
ure at a university as large as Wisconsin by the
regular coffee hours in the Union, which bring
faculty members and students
together on an informal basis.
In addition, the university
president and his wife spend
Wednesday afternoon “
home” and are fast building
up a desire in students to at—
tend the president’s monthly
teas. When well planned,
these teas and receptions can

Co-recreation at Wisconsin exists mainly
in special interest and multi-interest
groups. with decreasing emphasis on mass
at student body recreation. Using these in-
terest groups as nuclei. the co-recreation
program centers on dancing. outdoor
sports. public services in the campus com-
munity. student clubs. dramatics. music.
arts and crafts. hobbies. teas. recep-
tions. coffee hours. and discussion groups.

be a worthwhile co-recreational experience. Large—
scale receptions, open houses, and dances preced—
ing or following cafeteria—style “brunches” (break—
fast-lunches) or suppers have always been a
popular form of co-recreational activity. Mortar
Board supper, sponsored by the senior women’s
honorary society is the oldest_ example of this
type of entertainment. Freshman Open House,
staged by the Freshman Orientation Committee
with a low cost supper and free dancing and
games for new students during their first week at
school is a successful co—recreational mixer. More
recently the desire to raise money for victims of
Hoods. wars, and other disasters has prompted the
rise of twelve o’clock brunches followed by an
hour or so of dancing or other entertainment.

Some of the most unique co-recreational activi-
ties planned by students are in the field of forums
and discussions. The library committee of the
Union has organized browsing sessions in the
Union library at which leaders in the field of
literature discuss the latest and most controversial
works.

Another student-planned discussion program is
the friendship and marriage series which began
spontaneously two years ago as a series of lectures
for men and a series for women. The result of
these segregated discussions has been a request
for mixed lectures and discussions which have
been followed with some enthusiasm. Men air
their views to co-eds and the girls reciprocate. An
example of the way frank discussion of the prob-
lems of courtship and marriage before marriage
takes place, is the case of G . . . . House. Men in
this house at the men’s dormitories invited girls
in a house from the women’s dormitory to meet
with them in discussing “What a Girl Expects
from a Fellow on a Date.” The results were so
interesting that a second meeting followed.

These are experiences which help to make other
phases of co—recreation meaningful.

Summarizing the program, in Table II will be
found a list of the activities which are being con—
ducted. These reveal both
unique and common leisure—
time pursuits.

TABLE II

Dances

Dateless

Matinee—Saturday afternoon

Class—Sophomore Shuffle,
Junior Prom, Senior Ball

House——Fraternity, Inter-lodg-
ing house, Dormitory

404 CO-RECREA TION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF HI'ISCONSIN

 

Tub/r 11~ —(Coutimrcd)

Dancing classes

Clubs—International,
Graduate, etc.

Folk dancing

Special Events—Military
Ball, Homecoming, etc.

Outdoor Sports
Winter carnival
Hikes, bike trips, canoe
trips, ski outings, to-
boggan parties, skat-
ing parties
Summer session outings

Physical Recreation
Tennis—mixed doubles
Bowling
Badminton
Swimming

Community Service

Union House Committees

\Vage and Hours
Committee

Housing

(‘ommunity Chest,
All campus

Social Action groups

Political Groups
Young Progressives
Young Republicans
Young Communist

League

Music

Union Music Room
programs

Sunday afternoon
concerts

Supper musicales

Band and orchestra

Mixed choruses

Community Sings
Tudor Singers
Summer sings
Christmas festival

Hobby and Creative Work in
Union Art and Hobby
Workshop

Receptions. Teas. Suppers
President’s Teas
Coffee hours
Wisconsin Salon of Art
Mortar Board
Freshman Supper

Clubs

Graduate Club

International Club

Y.M.C.A., Y.\V.C..\.

Church groups

Country Life Association

Honorary groups: Artus,
Alpha Kappa Delta,
etc.

Dramatics Friendship and marriage
\Visconsin Players Forums
Apprentices

Theater productions Specie” Pames

Christmas party
Thanksgiving party

Discussion Groups
Browsing sessions

Training Student Leaders

.-

The program ot
will be stimulated in the future by the training of
group leaders in recreation now being started at
the Union. Five active students are systematizing r

co-rccreation' at \Visconsm

their work by taking courses in group work theory
and group work practice. The problems of group
organization and leadership and the techniques
used by group leaders are discussed and tried out
in 300 hours of practice with campus groups. A
problem met by these campus group workers not
met by group leaders in settlement houses and boy
scout work is that of acting as advisors and lead—
ers to groups of their own age. These student
leaders help to provide the critical evaluation of
the going program working as they do with the
perspective of “participant observers.” Already.
they are bringing in suggestions for revamping ’
the present program and adding to it new and i
novel activities to meet the changing recreational l
and co-recreational needs of students on the
campus.

 

 

Along Comes l-lallowe'en!

And that's the timeto have a party

0U WON’T FIND it difficult to persuade your
friends to come to a Hallowe’en party, but
you’ll want to invite them in as novel a way

as possible, so try this plan.
Prepare black witches from construction paper,
and make a broom for each witch by tying some
small bristles around a toothpick. In white ink

write the following invitation:

Follow the witches whither they go
And you’ll be sure to end your woe.
Return this broom and we will know
You’ll join us for fun, what ho!

The name, address. date, and time are written
on the reverse side of the witch. The little broom
is to be returned as an acceptance.

Decorations

Almost anything goes for Halloween decora-
tions! Witches, black cats, ghosts, goblins, pump—
kins, and skeletons maybe used in profusion.
and lamps may be turned into queer and eerie
shapes by the judicious use of crepe paper.

If your guests must go
Upstairs to leave their wraps.

knotting the corners to give the effect of a hood.
W'rap ten pieces of wire twelve inches long with
strips of White crepe paper until they are thick
enough to serve as fingers. Attach to the ends of
a heavy flag stick fastened across the broom. Cut
long fringes of crepe paper and fasten four thick-
nesses to the “arms.” Attach the broom to the
newel post with spool wire.

Pirate's Den. If the party is to be held in the
basement, turn it into a pirate’s den by stretching
paper painted to represent rocks around the bot-
tom of the room and placing pirate head cutouts
on top to resemble pirates looking over the wall.
Fasten strings crisscross overhead and hang
orange and black crepe moss over them. Fasten
witch, bat, owl, and pumpkin cutouts among the
moss. Arrange the strings so that they are just as
low as possible to give the impression of a cave.
The tables for refreshments or games should be
barrels, and boxes are used for chairs. Bottles
with candles complete the picture.

If you have a spare room, why not turn it into

the spooks’ graveyard? Us-
ing small kindergarten

why not make them walk
through a ghost? If there
is no stairway, the ghost
may be used in the main
entrance.

How to Make the Ghost.
A broom makes a good
foundation for the ghost.
Attach a ghost cutout to the
~ top of the handle with gum-
med tape. Use an old piece
Of cloth over the head,

Hallowe'en is on the way, and with it will
come the urge for a good time. a mad. glad,
carefree time, when dignity is thrown to
the winds and recaptured with difficulty!
Here are a few suggestions for activities
gathered from bulletins issued by recrea—
tion departments in a number of communi—
ties. Most of them. however, come from the
Playground and Recreation Board of De—
catur. lllinois. We hope many of them will
be helpful for the party you are planning.
And if you feel you have thought up
some better ideas, we hope you will send
them in to us so that we may pass them on.

chairs, make slip covers for
the backs out of white paper.
On these write the names
of the guests and any fit-
ting epithet about them.
Sprinkle dried leaves about
the floor. An old trunk lid
might make an apprcipriate
"grave" for someone. It’s
pretty spooky to have a
ghost rise up from behind
one of the tombstones!

405

406 ' ALONG COMES HALLOWEEN!

Some Activities
Follow the Cat. After all the guests have ar-
rived, the master of ceremonies stands in the cen-
ter of the room, unrolls a scroll, and reads: “Cry
for your partner and form in line ready to ad-
vance. We are going to start the Caterwaul with
a Catacoustic Dance.”

“Cat criers” are passed around. These are the
“squashy” kind that “meow” when squeezed.
Each cat crier has a number pasted on it, and the
guests find their partners by crying for them. The
wail is sent out fire-alarm fashion. For instance,
if the number is 13, the crier is squeezed once,
pause, then squeezed three times in quick suc-
cession.

After partners have been found a “Follow the
Cat” game starts the line, marching two by two
with everybody crying out loud. They must not
only follow the leader, but must imitate his catlike
antics as well.

Mouse Hunt.

Oh, hear ye cats! A mouse there is
With a price upon its head;

A reward awaits the cat that brings
It back, alive or dead.

A toy mouse is concealed in a not too obvious
spot—the toe of a slipper, for instance, or the
folds of a closed umbrella hidden in a closet.
Small cardboard cats on which the following
words are written: “Cold,” “Freezing,” “Warm,”
“Burning,” are placed around the rooms to help
guide the searchers. The reward is a black kitten
dressed for the occasion in a ruff of orange crepe
paper.

Pumpkin Exchange. This is a good starter be-
cause it gives the guests a chance to mingle. Seven
orange colored cardboard pumpkins are required
for each guest. They may be cut from orange
paper. One letter of P-U-M-P-K-I-N should be
printed on each pumpkin. The pumpkins should
be shuffled and dealt into as many piles of seven
as there are guests. Each seven should be placed
in an envelope. Put the envelopes in a hollowed
out pumpkin, and when all the guests have ar-
rived allow each one to select one envelope. The
object is to collect seven pumpkins that spell the
word “pumpkin.” Undesirable letters may be ex-
changed for others. Only one letter may be ex-
changed at a time, and if a person is asked for a
letter that he cannot supply he may not be asked
for another, but the questioner must go to some-

one else. The lirst person who gets the complete
word should receive a small prize.

The Fatal Blow. Mark off a large sheet of wrap-
ping paper in six inch squares, and in each square
write a fortune. Place the paper on the floor.
Each player, in turn standing on a mark three feet
from the paper, places a small feather on the
palm of his hand and blows it. The square in
which the feather lands determines his fate.

Nut Pass. From a bag of nuts in charge of a'
“starter” one nut at a time is passed along the
line. All players sit close so that the passing may
not be detected by the “spotter,” who stands at a
little distance. If at any time the spotter thinks
that he knows who holds the nut, he challenges
that person. If he is right he gets the nut, and
that person becomes spotter. If wrong the one
holding the nut may keep it, and another one is
passed. At the end of lifteen minutes the one who
has collected the most nuts wins.

A Hallowe'en Fortune Game. Provide a quart
milk bottle, a tablespoon, and a dish containing
corn grains. Each contestant in turn holds the
bottle on the top of his head with his right hand,
while with his left hand he scoops up as many
grains of corn as will stay in the tablespoon.
Standing before a mirror he tries to transfer the
corn to the bottle, his efforts usually being at-
tended with considerable failure. Each contest-
ant tries to put three tablespoonfuls of corn into
the bottle. Each player’s score is the number of '
corn grains which he succeeds in getting into the
bottle. The player with the highest score will be
the one who at the age of fifty will have amassed
the fortune in thousands of dollars as indicated by
each kernel of corn.

Bad Luck. Allow the guests ten minutes to write
as many superstitions or bad luck omens as they.
can remember. The player with the longest list!
of correct omens wins a prize.

Pumpkin Roll. The “pumpkins” are oranges with
faces put on with paint or ink. Put them on the
floor, and when the signal is given let all the
players start rolling them toward the other side
of the room with pencils or small sticks. The first
to reach the goal wins the game.

Collaring the Cat.

Health, happiness, luck—yes, all of that
Comes to the.one who collars the cat;
But he who fails three times, they say,
A forfeit he will have to pay.
A toy cat is placed at one end of the room.
Each player in turn stands eight feet away from

the cat and attempts to collar it, using three dif—

ALONG COMES HALLOWEEN! 407

ferent sized embroidery hoops. Those who fail
pay forfeits.

Black Cat Bowling. Cut seven cats from black
mat stock. Insert them in a wire menu holder so
that they will stand upright. Then give each guest
an apple rather irregular in shape and let them in
turn roll the apple toward the cats, and see how
many they can knock down with one blow. A
very appropriate prize might be a box of licorice
cats.

Cat-Ography. Give each guest a pencil and
paper. Ask each person to write on his paper a
word containing the word “cat.” When he has
done this, the paper is folded and passed to the
person on his right. Then in turn each person
must act out or interpret the word
written on his piece of paper for the
others to guess. Here are some sug-
gestions: Catnip, catapult, catastro—
phe, cattle, catch, catwalk,

caterpillar.
I l ‘
Table Decorations 
and Favors \ \
K\

the fun on Hallowe’en
comes when the guests
st0p long enough to eat.
Attractive table decora-
tions and favors as well as re—
freshments should be planned.
Pumpkin House. A wire frame
can be made in the shape of a pumpkin, or a real
pumpkin can be used. In either case, cut the eyes.
nose, and mouth out and place Christmas tree
lights on the inside for light. Make a picket fence
of black mat stock and place about the pumpkin
house. Witches, black cats and owls may be
placed on the fence posts or on top of the house.
This will make a colorful and interesting center-
piece.

An important part of 

Lollipop Ghost. For this you will need a round
lollipop. Push the stick firmly into a large round
mint and it will stand upright. Then cover the
lollipop with either white crepe paper long enough
to hide the‘mint on which it stands or use a white
handkerchief. Tie a “ribbon” of orange crepe
paper around its “neck” and paint large eyes upon
it. If a handkerchief is used, pin black circles of
paper on for eyes.

Apple Candlesticks. These may be used for
Place cards as well as favors. Use very small

 

A pumpkin house will make an ef-
fective and colorful centerpiece

tubs, such as the tiny washtubs in children’s
miniature washing sets or individual tin muffin
pans. Fill with water and get a very tiny crab
apple to float in each. In order to make the apples
Hoat so that the candles will stand straight up,
attach lead dress weights or fishline sinkers to
the bottom of each apple by a very short string
fastened to a pin, to act as a counterweight. Paint
the name of the person on the tub or stick a small
piece of paper bearing the name through the
handle.

Popcorn Ball Witch. Wrap a corn ball in yellow
cellophane. Tie at the top, cutting off the surplus,
thus leaving just enough for a “neck.” Stick a
marshmallow on a toothpick, insert in the neck,
and draw the features with melted
chocolate. Gather a strip of crepe
paper for the cape and add a pointed
hat made of two Hat pieces of black

mounting board fastened

together at the point and
I at the edges of the brim.
' A broom made of candy
ll; and a bit of brown crepe
|l paper may be added.

Apple Caldron. Cut the
stem end off a bright red
apple and hollow out the
center. Fill with celery
and nut salad. Wrap three pieces
of heavy wire with black crepe
paper and fasten together tightly
at the top with fine wire. Paste a silhouette of a
cat, witch, or owl to one of the wires. Spread out
so that they will stand up. Just before serving,
stand in the plate over the apple salad.

An orange may be used for the caldron and
filled with candy or nuts. Scrape the inside out
of the orange and let the skin dry for a very
short time.

Pipe Cleaner Favors. Witches, owls, black cats,
ghosts, pirates, and many other Hallowe’en char-
acters may be made with pipe cleaners. A few
twists of the cleaners, some bits of paper, and
some paste will make many attractive and amus—
ing favors for the table.

Walnut Favors. Use walnut shells for favors.
Write fortunes on narrow strips of paper, roll
them up, put one in each nutshell, and seal the '
halves together.

(Continued on page 42])

A Business Executive Turns Park Administrator

ROBERT J. DUNHAM is

coming to the Boston

Recreation Congress.
As president of the Chi-
cago Park District since it
consolidated the former
score of independent dis-
tricts into one major and
centralized administration
five years ago, his accom—
plishments have command-
ed national recognition.
Members of boards of ad-
ministration from other
cities will doubtless wel-
come an Opportunity to
consult so outstanding a
figure in the field of both
public and private admin-
istration.

Mr. Dunham retired
from active private busi-
ness several years ago. He
was known throughout the country as the indus-
trialist who in private enterprise first achieved
notable success in the Universal Oil Products
Company after his days in Harvard University.
F ollowing this he held executive office for about
twenty years with Armour & Company, retiring
as that company’s vice-president. He did not re-
tire, however, to escape responsibilities and enjoy
a life of relaxation. Retirement to him was an
adventure in responding to interests which had
long attracted him. There was art, in which he is
something of a connoisseur. There was oppor-
tUnity for further travel, which he had always
enjoyed. But most compelling was his desire to
apply his vast business experience to public ad-
ministration, devoting his extraordinary abilities
to the service of his fellow men.

He carried through the great task of setting up
and operating the Illinois Emergency Relief Cem—
mlssmn, creating its machinery and organizing its
operations. When the twenty-two independent
park districts of Chicago were consolidated by
vote of the city electorate, he took as a challenge
the invitation of his friend, Mayor Kelly, to ac-
cept the presidency of the new Board of Park
Commissioners, in 193.1. A superhuman task was

408

 

ROBERT J. DUNHAM

in prospect. Few of the
former districts were finan-
cially solvent. Park build-
ings were closed in sev-
eral of the former juris—
dictions. Others were oper—
ating under caretakers
only, or were staffed by
workers on relief, unac-
quainted with park opera-
tions. Bond issues were
generally in default.
irounds and facilities were
in many instances uncared
for. Only the major sys-
tems of the former admin-
istration were operating a
normal service. The job
called for extraordinary
financial statesmans‘nip, as
well as for inspired plan-
ning and construction.

In human engineering
he faced the challenge of welding into effective
unity an operating personnel holding in common
only suspicion of each other, and of making a re-
duced fraction of the normal operating budget
yield, in a time of universal social crisis, a return
in ministry to public well-being. He faced the
certainty of criticism and misunderstanding. But
the challenge appealed to his fighting spirit. Re-
stricted as the funds were, it was still big business, I
calling for a master hand in management, and
while he was unfamiliar with parks except as he
casually knew them, he relied upon the ability.
which he had cultivated throughout his business
career to cut through extraneous confusions and
get at the core of his problem, to master that, and

build an organization into frictionless efficiency.

No salary was involved for the ten—hour work-
ing day in prospect, but there was the promise of
adventure in grappling with new problems, cre—‘
ating a new and socially useful organization. He
accepted the appointment without hesitation, ac-
cepted it even while he was still serving as head
of the Relief Commission, and for a time, at least,
must do double duty.

(Continued on. page 421)

 

Courtesy Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Department

Hallowe’en in Manhasset

ALLOWE’EN in Manhasset in
H the years prior to 1937 was

probably no worse or no bet
ter than in similar communities.
There was the usual marking with chalk on auto—
mobiles and store windows and ringing of door
bells by younger children. There also was, how-
ever, a marked degree of vandalismmthe carrying
off of signs, and destruction of hedges and prop—
erty by the older boys and young men.

Some citizens thought it merely a nuisance, but
others regarded it as a civic outrage, a sign of the
laxity of the school system, the indifference of
parents, and the deterioration of the younger gen—
eration. To pacify this latter group, the American
Legion organized a volunteer committee to guard
the community and aid the police in apprehend~
ing offenders. This committee was successful in
what it attempted to do, but its work was simply
to aid the police in catching the culprits rather
than in seeking the fundamental cause in order to
prevent the vandalism which occurred each year.

The school authorities were
brought face to face with the
Hallowe’en situation in 1936
when several members of the
football team landed in the
hands of the police. An un—
diplomatic officer handled the

By REX M. CATE

Physical Education Director
Manhasset Public Schools

The story of a Long Island community
and its determination to provide for
its young people Hallowe'en enter-
tainment designed
recreation which would foster a car-
nival spirit within bounds of decency."

In
to Insure sane

situation badly by using the strong,
simple, but vividly understandable
language of the longshoreman.
The boys’ fathers objected to this
treatment and brought charges against the police
officer.

They Decided to Do Something About It

In spite of all this hullabaloo, no attempt was
made to meet the disturbance constructively. Par-
ents blamed the school and police. The police
blamed the parents. Finally, after a meeting of
the Department of Physical Education of the
Manhasset schools, the members went with a con—
structive plan to the Superintendent of Schools,
the Board of Education, and the School Com-
munity Association. They wanted to open the
high school building for the students, parents, the
alumni, and boy or girl friends from neighboring
communities for an evening of wholesome, legiti-
mate fun.

There were many objections. \Vould the chil—
dren go on to other communi-
ties or to undesirable places
after the party was over?
Would the large number of
cars parked around the school

provide temptation for mis-
chief? Would the building be

409

410 HALLOWEEN IN MANHASSET

abused? Nevertheless, a committee was formed
to discuss the party. Each high school class presi-
dent, the General Organization president, the foot-
ball captain and certain “key” boys and girls
represented the students. Some of these “key”
committeemen were school leaders and others
were often troublemakers. By including the latter
the committee enlisted their energies for a good
cause. The school authorities were represented
by the high school principal and the head of
Health and Physical Education. The School
Community Association sent its president, the
chairman of the guidance committee, and two
members at large.

The committee discussed the sitUation frankly.
Both students and adults agreeing that something
should be done, they decided that some sort of
“participating entertainment should be provided
to insure sane recreation for the youth of Man-
hasset which would foster a carnival spirit within

bounds of decency.”

With this quotation as a standard, the joint
committee went to work. An executive commit-
tee of four, composed of two citizens, a faculty
member and a student, appointed subordinate
committees: program, advertising, refreshments,
community singing, bridge (for parents), games
(for children who did not dance), music and
dancing, amateUr hour, booths, decoration, and
admission.

The advertising was done through the local
papers and the art department of the school made
the posters.

And This Is What They Did!

Students, parents and teachers were urged to
come in costume. Most of the students and many
of the parents and teachers did. Since the idea
was to have something doing every minute, the
building was Opened at 7 P. M. At 7 :30 games of
low organization, relays and stunts were con—
ducted in the gymnasium. This part of the eve-
ning’s entertainment was brought to a close by a
grand parade of costumes with prizes for the
“best,” the “most original,” and the “fUnniest.”

At 8 :30 an “amateUr hour” called 'the grOUp t0
the auditorium for twelve acts—ten by students
and two by parents. From 10:00 until 1:30 an
excellent orchestra provided music for dancing.
Chosen by the students, the orchestra had to be
paid by the General Organization, which meant
that funds had to be denied athletic teams.

During this time class rooms were opened with
a teacher, a student, and a parent in charge. The
visitors had their fortunes told, bobbed for apples,
ate pies, played ping-pong, went through a cham-
ber of horrors 0r danced a Virginia Reel.

The refreshment committee had one of the biggest
jobs. This committee was made up entirely of
mothers, though they had to call for assistance.
Two hundred dozen doughnuts, three barrels of
cider, two barrels of apples, besides quantities of
home made cake and cookies, were served at
intermission.

The bridge committee had set up tables and
chairs in the school library for parents who might
wish to play bridge. Two couples played only one
hand—after that they were too busy watching and
joining the festivities.

The Result of It All

The community sing was not successful, but
other than that the Hallowe’en party was a great
success. There was no damage done to property
in the town. The police had a night off as far as
hfanhasset was concerned. The American Legion
committee reported the streets quiet and no dis—
turbances. A few store windows and automobiles
were marked with chalk between 6:00 and 8:00
P. M. by very small children.

The young people didn’t go on to other com-
munities, or to undesirable places after the party
was over. The janitors and some volunteer par—
ents stationed to watch the cars parked about the
building reported that none were, disturbed. The
only damage to the school occurred when one
enthusiast threw a chair out of a lavatory window.
The building was dirty, however, and the janitors
worked all night to clean up. But even the jani—
tors declared it was worth it.

In 1938 the American Legion, the Chamber of
Commerce, the School Community Association,
W omen’s Clubs and other civic organizations con-
tributed a total of $200 in order that there might
be another party. The Hallowe’en party of 1938
naturally saw many improvements, corrections
and refinements, but the underlying thought was
the same—“to foster a carnival spirit within the

bounds of decency” and to provide a proper place 7

to house this carnival spirit.

In Manhasset the school and the community
are going to continue to foster and provide a place
for a decent Hallowe’en.

You Asked tor ltl

N OXFORD, OHIO, a group
I of Hi-Y boys made out a

list of questions which
they asked Camp Fire Girls
to answer for them. Nelle
Overholtz, Guardian of the
group, says: “This pleased the girls very much
and they spent two full meetings in preparing
their answers. In looking over these questions
and answers you will notice the echo of college
life. Our little town has Miami University, a
State College, and Western College for Women
-— about 3,100 college students—more than the
population of our town. You can well imagine
the special problems which this situation presents.”

ilar questions

The Questions

1. What should a boy spend on the average date?

2. Do girls object to being tagged at dances?

3. Do you like humorous or serious discussions
on a date?

4. Do Stewart girls object to Stewart boys
bringing outside dates? .

5. “7 here should a boy meet a girl for a date?

6. Should a girl go with a boy if her parents

object?

7. Should a boy have a car on a date? Is it
expected?

8. Do you expect a boy to treat uptown after a
dance?

9. How long before an occa'sion should a girl be
asked for a date?

10. Should a girl ask a boy for his awards for
sports such as football or basketball?

11. Should a girl return the awards after a break
of friendship?

12. What time do your parents expect you to be
home?

13. Should a girl refuse to dance with a boy who
asks her?

14. Do you expect punch at a dance?

15. Should a boy smoke on a date?

16. At formal dances should girls dance together?

I7. Would the girls object, at formal dances, if
couples only could come?

18. Should a girl brought by a boy dance only one
or two dances with him? If not, .how many?

19. What form would you like the boy to Use to
ask for a date?

These questions and answers have come 20. What form should beused
to us from Camp Fire Girlsl lnc. When

you are asked to answer these, or sim-
in your
program this list may be a life-saver!

in asking for a dance?
21. What kind of decora-
tions would you suggest
for a dance?
22. How should a boy say

co-recreation

good-night?

23. What kind of clothes should a boy wear at a
dance?

24. About what per cent of the girls in high
school would like to get married as soon as
possible after graduation?

25. Would the girls like to help the Hi-Y boys
learn how to dance, after basketball is over,
some afternoons from 3:30 to 5:00?

The Answers

1. If a group of boys and girls go together, a
Dutch treat is the thing. For example, after
a basketball game or a play, or trips of clubs.
If a boy definitely asks a girl for a date on a
specific night or time, it should not be Dutch.
If a high school boy dates a girl for a show
or dance it isn’t necessary to take the ‘girl to
the restaurant afterward. The cost of the
date should be the price of the function
attended.

2. The girls do not object to being tagged at a
high school dance after they have danced a
few moments with their partner. The girls
do not object to dancing with boys who aren’t
good dancers.

3. The right amount of both makes a worth—
while evening.

4. The girls themselves do not mind the boys
bringing outside girls, but it often leaves out
a lot of our own girls. ‘

. The boy should always come to the home of
the girl and go to the door. It is correct to
converse a few moments with the girl’s par-
ents. It is never correct to honk in front of

the girl’s home.
6. The girl should consider her parents’ objec-

tions very seriously before disobeying them.
t is not expected of the boy to have a car

for a date.
8. Answered in Question 1.

(Continued on page 422)

U1

\l

411

WORLD AT PLAY

 

AS the result of a
charter amendment,
Portland, Oregon, will
levy a city tax of four-
tenths of a mill for ten years to finance the de—
velopment of public recreational areas such as
neighborhood parks, playgrounds, and playfields.
The program will follow a systematic plan and
will be financed on a pay-as-you-go basis. No
project will be approved by the City Council until
the City Planning Commission in cooperation with
community organizations has prepared and sub-
mitted a detailed plan of execution, including a
list of projects based on relative needs. The new
levy is estimated to produce slightly over $100,000
a year based on present valuations. Acquisition
and improvements will be made gradually through—
out the ten year period beginning in 1939 and
will be financed out of current revenues. The city
and the school district, a separate unit of govern-
ment, have also taken steps to set up a joint com-
mittee for the purpose of bringing about a closer
coordination of recreational facilities of the two
governmental units. (Information taken from
Public Management, June 1939.)

A “Pay-As-You-Go”
Recreation Plan

 

JACKSONVILLE'S
new playground, V ic-
tory Park, is the [if-
teenth complete play
area of the city and the second one dedicated with-
in a period of six weeks. Victory Park was built
as a project of the WPA, sponsored by the local
Department of Public Recreation. The playground
site was once a desolate patch of ground covered
with coffee beans which grew ten feet high. To-
day, in the place of the coffee beans, there is a
beautifully landscaped park and a modern play
area. Completely fenced, the area contains a shel-
ter house, a set of six swings, two shuffleboard
courts and horseshoe courts. The main facility is
a concrete combination play court which affords
an opportunity to play basketball and volleyball,
dance and roller skate. All facilities are lighted
by floodlights for night use. An open play area
with a clay softball diamond serves teams in the
vicinity. In addition to the regular organized play
activities for children, the baseball leagues and
activities of the employees of nearby large indus—

412

From Coffee Beans
to Playground

trial plants will be carried on at the Victory Play—
ground, newest center in this Florida community.

 

THE Philharmonic
Symphony Orchestra
of Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, sponsored by the
Department of Public Recreation, concluded its
season in May with a concert including selections
from \Vagner, Bizet, Brahms, and Mozart. The
orchestra will continue its activities next year be-
ginning with a concert in October.

Reading’s Municipal
Symphony Orchestra

 

THE city of Colum-
bia, Missouri, last Jan—
uary initiated a year-
round recreation pro-
gram with a budget of $8,800. The community
has responded enthusiastically to the Recreation
Commission’s efforts to provide a broad program
of activities and is participating wholeheartedly in
the activities which are being promoted. In the
few months of its existence the Commission has
sponsored junior basketball leagues, a downtown
newsboy center, a summer music camp, weekly
band concerts, three adult softball leagues, a girls’
softball league, and a craft program. Junior base-
ball. movies, parties, nature activities, camping,
and a variety of special events have been con—
ducted. Among the facilities are two community
houses. two swimming pools, and six playgrounds
for colored and white children. Kenneth Osman

is director of the program.

Columbia Initiates
Recreation Program

C L O S I N G t h e
fourth summer of
dance instruction
under the Recreation
Department, Provo City, Utah, witnessed a Dance
Review. “Dancing Through the Ages,” featuring
500 boys and girls. Held in the largest auditorium
in the city, the review attracted a capacity crowd
a half hour before the show was scheduled.

The dancing lessons, in which 2,650 in a city of
16,000 participated in one week, were given free to
boys and girls between five and eighteen from
June lst to August I 5th. Creative, tap, clog, folk,
ballet, eccentric, character, natural and modern
were the types taught. Two or three lessons a

Dancing Through the
Summer

l

WORLD AT PLAY

   
  
 
 
 
  
    

BASEBALL
AND

SOFTBALL
BATS

413

BRAND DH] NAMES in the
world of sports!

The Hillerich 8: Bradsby Company is
happy to exhibit at your Twenty-Fourth
Congress. Be sure to register at our

Booth—Number Ib—and get your Base-

ball Centennial Souvenir
Autographed Louisville
Slugger Bat.

SEE US IN BOOTH I6

HILLERICH & BRADSBY ‘commnvnucu LOUISVILLE. KY.

week, each thirty or forty-live minutes long, were
given to each group of twenty children, with two
hours daily devoted to boys and girls who wanted
special help. Classes were held each day at four
centers, plus two evenings a week for adult
instruction.

Private dance teachers reported an increase of
fifty per cent in interest shown in the schools since
the inception of the dance program in the local
recreation department.

Gardening Unites School and Home—Con-
vinced that gardening is a form of recreation,
Paul R. Young of the Cleveland Garden Center
believes that school gardening becomes the con-
necting link between the school and the home.
Gardening as a school project was introduced into
Cleveland schools through science courses. More
than 16,000 youngsters in 132 schools are now
participating. The training is included in the reg-
ular science classes, and instructors make two
visits a year to the children’s homes to observe
their gardens. Each child pays a small enrollment
fee for membership in the garden home project,
and these funds cover the cost of seeds and plants,

‘ secured at a great saving by buying in bulk. Mr.

I.

l
l
l
.'
l
l

p
r

. P
P

Young states that the project pays dividends other
than the garden. The project is voluntary but has
been accepted by a large percentage of pupils and
parents as well, making it most important to
school curriculum. The contacts of teachers and
arents, occuring when the teachers visit their
upils’ gardens, are valuable both for good will
and for planning in the school system.

Religious Drama Institute—The Religious
Drama Council of the Greater New York Feder-

lation of Churches, 71 West 23rd Street, New

York City, announces a religious drama institute
which will include acting, directing, costuming,
staging, lighting, voice, and movement. The insti-
tute will be held on six Thursday evenings from
October 5th to November 9th at the Madison
Avenue Presbyterian Church. The course will
include a demonstration of the casting and direct-
ing of a Christmas play.

A New Portable Folding Stand— After sev-
eral years of experimentation, the Mitchell Manu-
facturing Company of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has
placed on the market a portable folding stand for
use of bands, orchestras, and choral groups. The
stand is entirely portable and can be readily moved
from one place to another. It is made up of units,
each eight by four feet, in three or four eleva-
tions depending on individual requirements. The
units are supported by steel tubular legs of special
design which fold into the apron of the individual
platform in such a way that the total folded thick-
ness is only two and a half inches. A minimum
storage space is required as the corner pieces also
fold and the guard rail around the back and sides
is demountable. The stand may be set up and
taken down in a very short time by only two
people.

American Education Week, 1939 —“Educa-
tion for the American Way of Life” will be the
general theme for the nineteenth annual observ-
ance of American Education Week to be held
November 6-11, 1939. The observance will be
sponsored by the National Education Association
in cooperation with the American Legion, the
United States Office of Education and the Na-
tional Congress of Parents and Teachers, and
with the support of many other organizations. As

414

 

  

PORTER-BUILT IS BETTER-BUILT

PLAYGROUND

EQUIPMENT

Chelsea Exclusivelg ton the
NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR

World's Largest Single Playground Installation

Because Porter-built playground units are superior in
every point of comparison, they are preferred not only
in the nation's show places, but in thousands of school
yards and playgrounds where they are in everyday use.

SEE OUR INTERESTING

:EXHIBIT-

T THE RECREATION CONGRESS

     
        

Porter is the World's Largest Manufacturer of

PLAYGROUND : GYMNASIUM
SWIMMING POOL Equipment

“J. E. PORTER

CORPORATION diiéc‘li’s‘

Successors to A. G. Spalding 5: Bros. Gymnasium Equip—
ment Division and the Chicago Gymnasium Equipment
Company; Manufacturers of the famous "Louden" line.

in previous years, the National Education Asso-
ciation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C., has prepared material including color-
ful posters, leafiets, stickers, and packets contain-
ing special folders for each day of the week
adapted to different school levels. Further infor—
mation may be secured from the National Edu-
cation Association.

Book Week, 1939 — November 12-18 will
mark the observance of the 1939 Book Week
when magazines, newspapers, and radio networks
will carry the story of Book Week to a large
audience. The theme around which programs,
exhibits, and discussions will be planned is “Books
Around the World.” Suggestions for special
projects keyed to this year’s theme will be found

 

 

Credit to Fitchburg

We want to call to our readers’ attention the
fact that the photograph which appeared on page
315 of the September issue of RECREATION should
have been credited to the Board of Park Com-
missioners of Fitchburg, Massachusetts. It shows
an interior view of the fireplace room in the
Memorial Building of Coggshall Park.

 
     
     
       
   
     
   
     
       
     

WORLD AT PLAY

in the free Book Week manual available from
Book Week Headquarters, 62 West 45th Street,
New York City. Other helps available from the
same address are a new poster 17 by 22 inches,
obtainable at 20 cents a copy; bookmarks at $1.50
a thousand; “The Magic Carpet,” a four page
newspaper containing articles, a variety of infor-
mation about books and reading, special book lists,
and a book quiz at $7.00 a thousand.

"Come and See Lincoln’s Youth

Program"
(Continued from page 379)
hopes to develop from this club, which is made up
largely of young married couples, leadership for
similar outings of younger folk.

Play Areas Attractive to Youth

In summer a large playing field known to every-
one as “Muny” is very popular and draws many
young people who come partly because of the
games and partly for the opportunity to meet and
play with each other. An instructor from the
University physical education department for
men was employed last summer to supervise the
activities of the grounds. He had a very well at-
tended program which met the needs of young
people some of whom have little else to do in the

way of leisure-time amusements. Now, instead of"

just hanging over the fence or walking about,
boys and girls are playing together.

Among the most popular pastimes for mixed
groups at Muny were volleyball, shuffleboard and
table tennis (played under lights); Night lighting

of this area has added greatly to its service to the

community.

Several additional playgrounds were lighted last ,

summer and new equipment and games suitable
for use under lights introduced. There was 110*-
ticeable increase of interest in the community as
a whole as well as among young men and women.
The lights not only provided for longer periods.
of play but for a different type of activity—one
more suitable for couples, and with greater social
appeal. We hope to enlarge upon these out-of-
door facilities for we feel that the lighted areas'
are a specific answer to co-recreational needs.

Training Social Recreation Leaders

Can Be Fun!

(Continued from page 380)

thusiastic and with the human touch that makes
people want to sing. The last member, but by no

I

TRAINING SOCIAL RECREATION LEADERS CAN BE FUN! 415

means the least, of the team, was to be the pianist
to accompany the community singing as well as
the musical games.

This plan was put into effect with great success.
A new team was selected each month, preferably
all from the same organization, thus building up
permanent teams. This plan also permitted a great
many to participate in actual leadership, and by
dividing the duties up among six people the novice
leaders would not be required to face the fright—
ening task of conducting an hour’s program alone.
Each team met with the superintendent of recre—
ation at least once before each party to plan it and
in this way gained additional experience in find—
ing and assembling material.

Mimeographed copies of the party were made
in the recreation office, and, following the presen-
tation of the program, were distributed free of
charge to all attending. In addition, they were
used as monthly service bulletins and distributed
from the recreation office to all individuals or or-
ganizations desiring help. To encourage attend—
ance, postcards were mailed preceding each party
to all individuals who had signified interest, and
newspaper articles were published announcing the
program.

The most valuable part of each party was the
informal discussion conducted for a few minutes
at the close of the program. A post~mortem, as it
were, with the°various leaders offering construc—
tive criticism and offering suggestions for future
parties. Party themes that were presented the
first season were as follows: November, Thanks-
giving; December, Christmas; January, Valen—
tine; February, VVashington’s Birthday; March,
St. Patrick’s Day; April, Spring; and May, an
outdoor campfire party.

This season, although the same holiday theme
may be used in some cases, the material presented
will all be new. The leaders, by saving the mime—
ographed programs each month, will find at the
end of the season that they have a complete note—
book on social recreation arranged in seasonal
order.

The results of this plan are very interesting.
First, the attendance grew from seventeen at the
first party to thirty—five at the second and over
sixty at the third. This peak attendance held up
fairly well during the winter months then dropped
off in the late spring. Programs were discon-
tinued during the summer months of June, July,
and August. Second, many new leaders became
interested and after attending one party continued

:3 <5 "'

THE P.‘ GOLDSMITH SONS IN
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS.,- CINCINNATI. O.

 

coming to others that were offered. Third, the
month after the parties started we noticed a defi—
nite decrease in the number of requests made to
the recreation office for social recreation leader-
ship. This led us to believe that these monthly
programs were being used when the leaders re—
turned to their own organizations. Fourth, through
the use of different chUrches, different leaders,
and the postcard announcement system each
month, the department has gained many new
friends and has developed within the community
a keener appreciation of social recreation.

We express our sincere thanks to the National
Recreation Association who through one of their
field representatives helped us to discover this ex-
cellent method of training our volunteer leaders.
To those who may be interested in trying this
plan I earnestly recommend the booklet published
by the Association entitled “Parties—Plans and
Programs” edited by Ethel Bowers. It contains,
not only an excellently arranged fund of social
recreation material, but also a more detailed out-
line of the organization of social recreation teams
than it was possible to include here.

416 SOCIAL DANCING IN THE CO-RECREATION PROGRAM

FOR SAFETY ITS
ALWAYS mI'I'CHElI.

Mitchell Be tterbilt
Playground a p p a r a-
tus is recognized as
being first in dura-
bility, and p e r m a —
nence. All possible
hazards have been
avoided by scientific
construction. Mitchell
leads the way . in
mo dern exclusnre
features.

Swimming Pool

Equipment

 

The strength
and durability of Mitchell construction assures years

of service and satisfaction. If you want the best, be
sure to investigate the complete Mitchell line.

WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION

MITCHELL MFG. CO.

DEPT. R-lO MILWAUKEE. WISC.

 

Social Dancing in the Co-Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 384)

floor. In that way each person secures a partner.
Sometimes we have them exchange partners on
the floor; occasionally we have what we call a
“blind dance” in which the boys come in from
behind one side and the girls from the other side
of a corner, and no one can see who his partner
will be until they meet at a common point. We
tend to mix in more boys’ choices as we have gone
along and fewer dances by chance are used. Oc-
casionally we have had a ladies’ choice, but in
general we have been trying to teach the boys to
take the initiative and conduct themselves as they
would at regular social dances.

As a climax to the eight weeks course, we con-
clude with a formal dance. On that day we have
the boys all wear coats which are to represent
tuxedos. The boys are given programs and they
are requested to make out the programs and take
care of their partners throughout the entire period
just as if they were, at a formal affair.

At the conclusion of this eight weeks period we
have noted the following improvements. Both the

boys and girls have improved their dancing con-
siderably and many who were stiff and lacked
rhythm have smoothed out both their movements
and their timing. Practically all of them have
gained in social approach and the boys and girls
converse between dances instead of separating
into different corners. The general conduct of
dancing has improved a good deal. The attitude
of the boys and girls towards each other is more
spontaneous and wholesome. We at Emerson feel
that of all our co—recreational programs, this is

one of the very best.

A Symposium on Social Dancing
(Continued from page 385)

music is played most of the time. To high school
age boys and girls, this is important, for they do
not like to wait during intermissions. The dances
are supervised very carefully by the recreation
staff; although about twenty dances have been
held, no trouble has been reported. The towns-
people have commented favorably on these affairs,
saying that they take the young people off the
streets 'and put them into healthy surroundings
where they dance themselves tired. There is no
charge ‘for these dances. From Chase Hammond,
Director of Recreation, Albion, Michigan.

Friday Night Dances in Richmond. Friday night
dances are outstanding events in, the recreation.
program of Richmond, Virginia. Tickets of ad—
mission are given older boys and girls attending
two of the recreation centers on the east side of
Richmond, and the dances are attended chiefly by
young people from fifteen to eighteen years of
age. The use of the schools is made possible
through the superintendent of schools; the Coun-
cil of Social Agencies pays the salary of the di-
rector and an assistant or two, and the Recrea-
tion Department and the WPA furnish the other
workers. An orderly, enjoyable dance is the re—
sult of this joint planning.

One Public Auditorium Used for Dances of Local
Groups. Young people of Portland, Oregon, at-
tend evening neighborhood recreation classes many
of which are held in the public schools. Instead
of using the school buildings for neighborhood
dances for these young folks, the city recreation
department invites the various groups to schedule
dances in the ballroom of the Public Auditorium.
Thus each district’s dancing enthusiasts have the
best of dancing facilities and leadership, and the
dance is as much their own as it held in their
local community. There is no admission charge;
directors in charge of the buildings merely sign, as

CLUBS FURTHER CO—RECREATIONAL OBJECTIVES 417

hosts, the invitation blanks. This arrangement is
made possible by cooperation of the city depart-
nient of public affairs. From Dorothea Lensch,
Director of Recreation.

Clubs Further (Io-Recreational

Obiectives

(Continued from page 393)
parties have been held in most of the lakes in the

region about Schenectady. Hikes have been an-
nounced for Wolf Hollow, Lishas Kill, Vroo-
man’s Nose, Plotter Kill, Devil’s Punch Bowl
and Countryman’s Hill, Indian Ladder, and Verf
Kill. This means that the club has become ac-
quainted with the hills and valleys for several
miles around. “There will be either skating or
skiing each Saturday afternoon, depending on
weather conditions,” read the announcement in
January, and February added a real sleigh ride.

Week Ends

Very much of the Otyokwa fun comes in the
week-end outings. In August this past year there
was a two-day camping trip to Sand Point camp
site on Schroon Lake. In September the Labor
Day week end was spent in a canoe trip through
the Saranac Lakes. Twenty-eight signed up for
the trip and twelve canoes were used. Early in
October the camping trip was in the region of
Mt. Marcy and the mountain climbers had their
choice of Marcy, Colden and McIntyre. Over the
New Year week end some thirty-live club mem-

bers skied at Aiden Lair.

Special Interest Groups

Aside from these events open to the whole club,
there are special interest groups as demand for
them arises. This past year there have been three
special interests. One, popular for several years,
was a music appreciation group; Square dancing
became a real hobby with a large number of the
club members, and the announcement of a ball-
room dancing class brought out a large and en-
thusiastic crowd which carried on for about ten
weeks. In former years there have been book
study groups, a photographic group, one in the
early history of the Mohawk Valley section of
New York, a French group, various dramatic
groups, and a choral group—in fact, the Special
Interests Committee keeps its ear to the group
and hastens to promote any interest for which
they can find enough followers.

If You Would Have a Successful Club
Our club, with its nine year history, has cov-

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARRDWS

OF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
Winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts—
men, archers themselves, in America's largest

plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form, building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. R9 Pine Bluif. Ark.

 

ered a wide field of activities, has had many head-
aches as well as many satisfactions, and has
reached some conclusions as to essentials. Among
these essentials the following may be listed:

I. A balanced active participating membership
is imperative. The man who belong to the Otyokwa

Club have classes and study in connection with
their work and can not be as regular in attendance
on some nights of the week as the women. This
means that the membership list should tend in the
direction of a larger number of men than women.

  
 

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 

 

 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

Many Styles of Horseshoes
Official Courts 0 Stakes

Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

 

418 INTRODUCING BOYS AND GIRLS TO CO-RECREATION

 

.Schooll Activate/.5

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

 

 
 
   

Subscription

   

Price

$2.00

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living
and working together.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO.

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

2. Married persons are admitted to member-
ship only when both husband and wife are inter—
ested. When a member marries a non-member,
the new husband or wife automatically becomes a
member.

3. A membership larger than sixty or seventy
tends to become unwieldy.

4. A varied program is necessary.

5. Club responsibilities should be as evenly dis-
tributed between men and women as possible.

6. All outings and parties are expected to pay
for themselves—"that is, eXpenses for such events
are apportioned among those who participate.
Members who use their cars for transportation
are paid a definite rate per mile.

7. Groups are expected to stay together on
mountain climbing trips.

8. All parts of the program are for all of the
members. The club has been proud of the fact
that “pairing off” is not important. If at times
there seems to be a tendency in the direction of

too much pairing, definite efforts are made by
planning committees to counteract it.

Introducing Boys and Girls

to Co-Recreation
(Continued from page 394)
end of the volleyball season. Through the co—
operation of two members of the physical educa—
tion department, the boys and girls who are lead—
ers in the Junior class Were arranged in mixed
teams and played a round robin tournament
within one leader’s period. Although the girls
were hesitant at first, it was not long before they
entered into the game wholeheartedly, and when
the physical education classes were combined in
the same way, these leaders were helpful and
enthusiastic. Again, in anticipation of a seventh
grade party, the two sets of leaders danced the
Virginia Reel together. The girls had previously
been taught the dance, and they were a great help
in teaching the boys. On the evening of the party
when it was necessary to organize a large group
of children, there was a detinite nucleus around
which to build. Working with leaders’ groups is
an ideal way to start, because small groups lend
themselves more readily to experimentation.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 419

However, many schools use leaders in class without
having the opportunity of meeting a mixed lead—
ers’ group. In this case the leaders will still be of
untold assistance if they understand fully before-
hand how the program is to be presented.

In classes handled with no assistance from
student leaders, the program for a day of co—
recreation must be worked out in detail ahead of
time, and a foundation should be laid in the pre-
ceding physical education period to prevent con-
fusion and excitement from outweighing the
‘value of participation.

Whether the teachers have entire responsibility
or whether they have students to assist them,
there are certain fundamental rules to follow in
organizing a class with co-recreation as its basis:
(I) the activity must be one that all may enter
and all will enjoy; (2) rules must be adapted to
a mixed group, some regulations may be added,
or, as in volleyball, boys and girls may abide by
their respective rules; and, (3) mixed teams, ar-
ranged so that they will contribute most to the
success of the program must be planned in ad—
vance. Each teacher knows her particular situa-
tion best; she will know whether she wants all
teams of equal ability, or several classes of teams.
The planning must necessarily be done by the in-
structors of both groups beforehand. ‘

In conclusion, we must accept the fact that co-
recreation may take root gradually, and the real
results will not show immediately. The three
main essentials for the success of the program are
cooperation, a real desire to make co-recreation
popular, and careful planning, which cannot be
stressed too much. Every teaching situation is
different and each approach may vary in detail.
However, by following the general outlines that
others have found workable, a teacher will soon
find that she can build her program from her own
experiences. These experiences are going to give
her the best foundation for a successful program
of co-recreation.

'The Evolution of Flint's Co—Ed Night:

(Continued from page 397)
center experimented with some group counseling.

Discussions were held following talks, some group
tests were given and opportunities offered for in-
dividual tests. It was not particularly successful
‘from the standpoint of attendance, but some good
.contacts were made. the director reports, and some
follow-ups have been made at the center. Perhaps
I

 

it was too new for the members to understand

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 
of lnterest to the Recreation Worker

        

    

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, June 1939

“Planning the Recreational Swimming Pool”
by C. P. L. N icholls

School and Society, June 17, 1939

“What the Future Holds” by Professor Marvin L.
Darsie, University of California

The Camping Magazine, June 1939
“Tipi Camping” by W. M. Harlow
“Camera Campers and the Camera Counselor”
by Elizabeth G. Look

“A Study of Camp Accidents” by Light for Life
Foundation and the American Camping Associa-
tion

H ygeia, July 1939

“Camp Counsel” by Lawrence Riggs. Gives expert
advice on many aspects of camping that are often
unobserved by counselors and children alike. For
example, the effect of a higher altitude on the
physical condition of children, the necessity for
sleep and adequate rest.

“The Psychology of Loafing” by Kenneth P. Wood.
This is a plea for cultivating the ability to cast
aside completely the care of business with a view
to enjoying nature or absolute quiet without [bore—
dom.

“Highway Health” by Beulah France. Cautions
against the lurking dangers of food and drink

likely to be found on the common highways.

Student Life, April 1939
“Camp Life at Home” by Sid Katz
“This is Youth Hosteling” by Margaret J. Brown

Beach and Pool, July 1939

“How to Stage Annual Swim Week”
by Herbert Allphin

“Principles and Design of the Water Level Deck
Pool” by William P. Campbell

Youth Leaders Digest, July 1939

“Shall We Play to Win ?—Or Just for Fun?”
“The Professional Preparation of Recreation Lead-

ers” by Dr. Edwin L. Haislet
“Indicted!” by George HJelte

Parks and Recreation, August 1939

“Casting Pool Answer to Angler’s Prayer” .
“Archery Comes to Essex County” by L. C. \Vilsey

The Child, July 1939
“A Museum for Children” by Mrs. William L.

Garrison _ ”
“Museum FaCllltICS for Children

Character and Citizenship, September 1939

“Democracy and Education” by Robert M. Hutchins
“Recreation and the ‘Mormon’ Church” by T. Edgar

Lyon _
“Some Emotional Needs of the Child” by Clarence

G. Moser .
“The Evaluation of Propaganda” by Henry 0. EvJen

420 IT’S EASY TO HAVE FUN!

School Activities, September 1939

“Activities and Projects of Student Councils”
by C. C. Harvey

The Guardian, September 1939
“A Caravan Party” by Catherine Lee Wahlstrom

PAMPHLETS

Annual Report 1938,

Onondaga County Park and' Regional Planning
Board, Syracuse, N. Y.

Annual Report 1938

Department of Public Recreation, Board of
Education, Sheboygan, Wisconsm

Report 1938 I
Playground Athletic League, Baltimore, Maryland

Annual Report 1938
Park and Recreation Divisions, Toledo, Ohio

Annual Report 1938

Playground and Recreation Department, Santa
Monica, California

Report of the Board of Recreation Commissioners for
1937 and 1938 Elizabeth, N. 

Fourth Annual Report

New Jersey State Planning Board 1938, Trenton,
N. J.

Wisconsin State Planning Board and Conservation

Commission—Bulletin N0. 8
A Park, Parkway and Recreational Area Plan,
Madison, Wisconsin, 1939

First Progress Report

Louisiana State Planning Commission, Baton Rouge.
La., April 1938

Use oi Roois For Play

Otto T. Mallery, a member of the Board of
Directors of the National Recreation Association.
is anxious to seCUre information on play roofs
constructed on one-family houses. If any of our
readers are familiar with such projects, may we
not hear from them?

what it was all about, and since there was no
placement bUreau connected with it, those who
had the most need of such counseling could least
see its value because there was not immediate help.

A dramatics group has been tried almost every
year with varying success according to the ability
of the director. This year has been one of the
very best, and perhaps more has been done in the
way of creative dramatics than at any other time.
The best production undoubtedly was a skit about
the Y.VV.C.A. given at the annual dinner for As-
sociation members and friends. It was adapted
from Barbara Abel’s “Follow the Leadership”
and not only got ideas across to the members with

good humor, but made the co-ed group much more
conscious of being part of a large organiza-
tion and familiar with some of its underlying
philosophy.

After the classes, the last two hours, from 9 :30
to I I :30, are spent dancing in the gymnasium. An
informal atmosphere prevails here too, as more
come “stag” than with dates. Various mixers and
tag dances are used to help get everyone on the
floor. The same young woman is at the door
every time to take tickets and they have learned
that she will enforce the Council’s rules of check-
ing wraps and no smoking except in corridors:
There is no other apparent supervision, but a staff
member is always present. ‘

Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of young people
have come and gone in these years. Some we
have not known at all, some long enOUgh and in-
timately enough so that we know their Y.W.C.A.
contacts have helped them in problems of job,
personal appearance, family and marriage adjust-
ments. Some perhaps have stayed too long in this
program and should be moving on to new inter—
ests and greater responsibility in the community.
We believe that most of them are better fitted to

take their places in society because of the time
spent at the Y.VV.C.A. ’

It's Easy to Have Fun!
(Continued from page 401)

whose membership was due to him or to some
one whom he had interested. As a result of
this type of contagious enthusiasm we are
faced with the problem of just how large we
should permit the club to grow. Is there a
limit beyond which a group like this can not
go and still maintain its characteristic friend?
liness and informality? Should we take in all
who are interested or should we maintain a
numerical balance between the two sexes? We
have decided on the latter and keep a waiting
list of whichever sex is in the ascendant.

The spread of information by our “satisfied
customers” also resulted in inquiries by folks
of all ages. We decided to keep it a young
people’s group and therefore will not admit
any one over thirty-five. Our one notable ex—
ception is a man sixty-two years of age who
is affectionately called “Pop” by the rest of us,
and who can climb New England’s highest
mountain at the head of the line. He holds
our only honorary life membership.

l

EXHIBITS AT THE CONGRESS

Another problem which accompanies a
growing membership and an increasing num-
ber of activities is that of leadership. With
thirty-eight events in one month it is clearly
impossible for one leader to cover all of them.
Out of the club has emerged a group of young
men who have demonstrated the qualities of
leadership. They have been selected by the
planning committee. They accept assignments
of events and take their responsibility
seriously. They meet regularly to discuss the
techniques involved in leadership, to exchange
experiences and to help each other with prob—
lems which have arisen. \Ve do not think of
the leader as playing the role of a policeman.
Rather is he the “tour conductor” who handles
the details, collects the money, gives the signal
to move on to the next activity, handles
emergencies, and does all in his power to give
the folks the time of their lives.

Along Comes Hallowe'en!
(Continued from. page 407)
Refreshments

MENU No. l
Deviled Ham Sandwiches
Black Olives .
Ginger Ale and Grape Juice Punch
Orange Cups with Orange Sherbet
Orange Cups. Cut off top of oranges and scoop out
pulp. Keep orange shell in water until ready to use.
Dry out before using.
MENU No. 2
Man-in-the-Moon Cookies
Pie Faces Witches’ Punch
Witches’ Punch. Use grape juice to get dark color.
Pie Faces. Individual pumpkin pies with chocolate faces.
MENU No. 3

Assorted Sandwiches
Pickles
Doughnuts

Salted Peanuts
A Brief Bibliography

(Obtainable from National Recreation Association)

Plays, Pantomime: and Other Entertainment Material for
H allowe’en. A bibliography. Free

Olives Cheese
Cider

Candy

Fun for Hallowe’en. A seventeen page bulletin including

 

l

l
l

activities and ideas sufficient for several Hallowe’en
parties, as well as entertainment numbers for an audi-
torium or club program. $.25

Peter Pumpkin Eater, by Marion Holbrook. A short
play for young boys and girls. Only the spell cast by
a pumpkin shell house makes Peter’s wife stay at
home. $.15

Hallowe’en Gambols, by Marion Holbrook. Traditional
Hallowe’en characters appear before Mephistopheles
and report on the success of their evening travels.
Folk dance groups. Festive court scene. $.10

421

Exhibits at the Congress

THERE WILL BE interesting educational and com-
mercial exhibits at the Twenty-Fourth Na-
tional Recreation Congress which delegates will
not want to miss. They will be located in the ball-
room foyer of the Statler Hotel, Boston, head—
quarters of the Congress, and it is hoped that all
delegates will examine the exhibits and learn
about them through the representatives of the co—
operating agencies and firms. For your conveni-
ence in locating the exhibits the booth numbers
are given.

Booth

Name and Address Number

Abingdon Press—New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24 and 25

American Youth Hostels, Inc.—Northfield, Mass. 29
Association of American Playing Card Manu-

facturers—New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 26
Association Press—New York City . . . . . . . . . . ..24 and 25
A. S. Barnes and Company—New York City.. 18
Benjamin Electric Manufacturing Company—

Des Plaines, 111. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..21and22
Boy Scouts of America—New York City . . . . . . 28
J. E. Burke Company, The—Fond du Lac, Wis. 11
Chicago Recreation Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7
Cokesbury Press—Nashville, Tenn. . . . . . . . . . ..24 and 25
Cornell University Extension Service-—

Ithaca, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 32
Everwear Manufacturing Company, The—

Springfield, Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agricul—

ture——Washington, D. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 33
P. Goldsmith Sons, Inc.,The-——Cincinnati, Ohio 27
Hillerich and Bradsby Company—Louisville, Ky. 16
Law Pipe Railing Corporation—Long Island

City, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 38
Model Yacht Association—Eastern Division. . . . 30
Magnus Brush and Craft Materials, Inc.—

Wakeiield, Mass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 39
National Billiard Association—Chicago, I11.. . . . 40
National Golf Foundation—Chicago, Ill . . . . . . .. 31
National Recreation Association—Arts and

Crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34 and 35
J. E. Porter Corporation—Ottawa, Ill . . . . . . . . ..19 and 20
Prentice Hall, Inc—New York City . . . . . . . . . ..24 and 25
Public Affairs Committee, Ina—New York City .24 and 25
A. G. Spalding & Bros—New York City . . . . .. 14
U. S. Housing Authority—Washington, D. C... 4and5
University of Chicago Press . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..24 and 25
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation—

Los Angeles, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Wilson Sporting Goods Company—Chicago, 111.. 23
Womans Press—New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24 and 25

A Business Executive Turns Park
Administrator
( Continued from page 408)

At his call the operating family assembled.
Revolutionary change was in the air, but here was

422

YOU ASKED FOR IT!

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing —— or
not doing ~—

To lay the foundation for good citizenship

To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard demoCratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

School and Church Leaders
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation ‘

Dr. Francis L. Bacon, Principal of the Evanston,
Illinois, Township High School says, "The current
issue of your magazine, CHARACTER and
CITIZENSHIP, came to my desk this week. I
carried it home and pleasantly, I believe profit-

ably, too, spent an evening reading the entire
contents.

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too, that
civics and guidance teachers might well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti-

tute a superior service. More power to your
efforts!”

Send your order to

Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

’-.-'I-----------

0
¢ Please record my name as a sub-

scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP as checked below.

C] One year subscription at $2.00

N AMI: ............................................................................ ..
Annnxss ........................................................................ ..

CITY .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 

leadership, and proud to be consulted, they gave
him instant loyalty. He saved millions for the
taxpayer by refunding outstanding debts. Seizing
the opportunity to use Government provided
labor, he has modernized and rebuilt. The con-
necting Outer Drive Bridge across the River link-
ing north and south side boulevards is completed.
Highways have been redesigned for motor safety
and convenience. The recreation service has been
unified and extended uniformly throughout the
city, converted from a predominantly children’s
service to a service to the entire community, in a
frontal attack through the means of recreation
upon the problems of community morale. Think~
ing and planning has been converted from im-
mediate inspiration into long term expectancies.
Credit has been restored, and leadership is con-
stantly enlisting more of community participa—
tion, to make the parks of Chicago not only min-
ister to, but also creative of, a more effective
democracy.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 411)

9. At, least a week before a dance; a day or two
before a show.

10. Absolutely no. A girl should not ask a boy
for his athletic awards.

II. The girl should offer to return the boy’s pins
or letters after the break-0E of friendship.

12. If they go home immediately, the girl should
be home in half an hour after the function.
If they go to the restaurant they will need
more time.

I3. The girls should not refuse a dance unless
she already has the dance. It is correct for
the girl to tell the boy when she has a dance
free.

14. Not necessary.

15. If not objectionable to the girl.

16. Unless you restrict to only couples attending.

17. This leads to our boys inviting our own girls. .

18. Dance every third or fourth dance and always
the first and last dance.

19. Appear in person and very politely ask her
for a date.

20. May I have the next dance with you?

21. Appropriate for month, season, and type of
dance.

22. Just a simple good-night.

25. Usually a “Sunday Suit.”

24. At this time, not interested.

25. Will aid at any time.

  

The Complete Swimmer

By Harold S. Ulen and Guy Larcom, Jr. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $3.00.

ROM THEIR EXPERIENCE, one as swimming coach at

Harvard College and the other as competitor, the
authors have written an up-to-date and practical account
of how to become a competent swimmer. The beginner,
as well as the average swimmer and competitor, will find
much practical help in this book. There are over a hun-
dred photographs and drawings illustrating the text.

Yachting with Models

By John Black. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book
Company, New York. $3.50.

HIS VOLUME is designed for use as an instruction book
Tand contains general information about hull construc-
tion, types of fittings, the making of sails, and the actual
sailing of the model. The author tells what tools and
equipment are needed and gives the step-by-step pro-
cedure for the three principal ways of making the hull.
There are suggestions for organizing a model yacht club.

A Textbook oi Physical Education

By Jesse Feiring Williams, M.D., Sc.D. and Whitelaw
Reid Morrison, M.D. W. B. Saunders Company, Phila-
delphia. $2.75.

THE SECOND EDITION of this book is fully up to date, and

numerous changes and additions appear both in text
and illustrations. The volume will serve its purpose of
“arousing in the student a genuine appreciation of the
need for recreational facilities, as well as to give an ade-

‘ .quate education in recreational skills.” Throughout the
book the author has emphasized the importance of de-
veloping an intelligent regard for the physical activities
that play so large a part in our daily lives.

Sources of Free and Inexpensive

Teaching Aids

By Bruce Miller. Ontario Junior High School, Ontario,
California. $1.00.

l

l

BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS are given regarding the sources
mentioned and information on how the material may

i be secured. This list of material covers many subjects,

including arts, crafts, birds, foods, electricity, health, and
hobbies.

Youth in European Labor Camps

By Kenneth Holland. American Council on Education,

Washington, D. C. $2.50.
l HIS STUDY of work camps in European countries was
prepared for the American Youth Commission of the
American Council on Education. Tracing as it does the
' growth and present status of work camps abroad, the vol—

l

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

  

ume should be of real value to all who are concerned with

the social. educational, and political significance of the
camps in our own country.

Labor camps have been in existence since 1920. They

now seem to be a permanent part of the world program
for the care and training of youth.

Perspective Made Easy

By Ernest R. Norling. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $1.40.

THIS BOOK, illustrated by 271 drawings by the author,
is a treatment of line perspective for beginning stu-
dents in freehand drawing. The material is arranged in

a series of sequential steps, which makes the learning of
perspective simple.

Making Good Beiore Forty

By Walter B. Pitkin. Robert M. McBride and Company,
New York. $2.00.

IF YOU ARE LOOKING for new ways of making good in

both your private and business life, here are helpful
hints. “A guide to successful living,” the book contains
suggestions for well rounded leisure-time pursuits and
hobbies, and in the author’s opinion the essence of well
rounded leisure lies in “doing what you can and what

gives you satisfaction with the skills and abilities used in
your working life.”

What Councils of Social Agencies Do

Bulletin No. 100 of a Series on Community Flaming.

$Clorramunity Chests and Councils, Inc., New York City.
.0 .

ACLEAR STATEMENT of the objectives and activities of
councils of social agencies based on a study of twelve
large cities. The report shows many variations in what
councils do and points out that local structure and action
must be based on local situations.

Meeting the Needs of the
Mentally Retarded

Bulletin No. 420. Department of Public Instruction,
Commonrwealth of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg.

LASSES FOR THE mentally retarded have been in opera-
C tion in Pennsylvania for forty-live years, and the pur-
pose of the program has been “to capitalize each child’s
special abilities and to minimize his defects so that he
may live happily and effectively.” This booklet is an ex—
ceedingly practical one, dealing as it does with the es-
tablishment of classes, courses of study, methods, class-
room organization, and similar subjects. Emphasis is
laid on the importance of health and recreation activities
for the mentally retarded, and the recommendation is
made that at least an hour of each day’s program or its
equivalent be devoted to health and physical education.

423

424

Health Facts for College Students.

By Maude Lee Etheredge, MD. “I. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia. $2.00.

In the third edition of Dr. Etheredge’s book every
chapter has been revised to conform to present-day
knowledge, and two entirely new chapters 1have been
added. A chapter on Work, Leisure and Play stresses
the importance of recreation. “The challenge for the
college student to meet the increased leisure confronting
America today becomes great. He must 'meet it for
himself and help meet it for his family and his

community."

A Study of Education in the Civilian Conservation
Corps Camps of the Second 'Corps Area.

By Samuel F. Harby, Ph.D. Edwards Brothers, Inc.,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. $1.50.

In presenting the results Of his study, Dr. Harby first
establiShes a background against which the considerations
which follow stand out in relief. He then shows factually
what educational activities are being offered in the camps
and gives an interpretation of the program. In a chap-
ter on Informal Leisure-Time ActiVities Dr“. Harby tells
of the program of sports, music, dramatics, arts and

crafts.

“Your Neighborhood Club.”

A Manual for Group Leaders, by Gregg and Him-
ber. Association Press, New York City. $.60.

This Manual for Group Leaders, a booklet of 108
pages, will meet a growmg demand for detailed g. -
ance in the setting up of neighborhood groups of boys—
the influence of leadership, the nature of the program tO
be administered, the objectives to be sought, records to
be kept and a host of other suggestions as_ to member-
ship, financing, interpretation, club relationships and
relationship of boys’ leaders to parents in communities.
There is special emphasis on the relation of such boys’
groupings to training in the democratic processes of
citizenship. The book will be helpful not only to boys’
workers in Y.M.C.A.’s but to all those who have the
problem of setting up and conducting neighborhood boys’
groups.

“Let Me Think.”

By H. A. Overstreet. The Macmillan Company, New
York City. $.60.

Why do minds go dead and what can be done to keep
minds from dying? What can people do about the
unhappiness about them? What is tO be gained by trying
to do somet‘hing about that unhappiness aside from the
smug satisfaction of helping others? Dr. Overstreet
attempts in simple fashion to answer such questions
without laying down specific rules. He deals in principles
and shows how principles can be applied to life. The

chapter, “The Mind as Artist,” is especially stimulating
and helpful.

Fun with Words.

By Jerome S. Meyer.
York. $1.95.

Fun with lVords is the logical outgrowth of two very
pOpular pencil and paper games—Guggenheim and Alpha-
bet, and it combines the rbest features of each. A vast
amount of research has gone into this book which con-
tains twenty categories, including animals, radio, screen
and stage stars, Operas, musical instruments, etc. The
book 'will not only serve its primary purpose as a source

of entertainment, but it will also prove valuable as a
categorical dictionary.

Greenberg, Publisher, New

Knitting Manuals.

James Lees & Sons Co., Bridgeport, Pennsylvania.
A series Of booklets, each discussing in some detail
various phases of stitch-craft, accompanied by complete

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

and easy tO understand instructions. One is able to
choose from a variety of rugs, the ever popular afghan,
sweaters for every member of the family, and other
hand-knit costumes of every type.

“Complete Knitting Manual” Volume 44, includes in
addition tO general instructions fundamental knitting and
crochet stitches, models, and instructions covering all
kinds Of garments. This volume sells for 50¢. Others
can be purchased as follows:

Volumes 1, 2, 3 —Stitches and Styles—60¢ each
Volume 41 —Juvenile and Baby Book—25¢
Volume 45 —-Styles of the Future—25¢
Volume 46 —Afghans—25¢

Volumes 47,49, 51—Style Book—25¢ each
Volume 48 “Needlepoint Book—40¢
Volume 50 -—Men’s Book—25¢

Flowers and Still- Life.

Compiled by . B. Charles. Studio Publications,
Inc., 381 Fourth Avenue, New York. $2.50.

This anthology of paintings is designed for those who
are fond of flowers and who appreciate the painter’s
efforts to make fleeting beauty permanent. It champions
no school of painters, but confines itself tO reproduction
and description of beautiful pictures of every type. There

are reproductions of seventeen paintings, sixteen of them
in full color.

———___________________—_——————-——-————-———___

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUOIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
I‘IENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan. City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. II.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

T. SUI-“FERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

\

 

