Friends of Recreation

0 BOSTON as to a Mecca from the United States and Canada came the friends of recrea-
tion—for a week together—October 9-13, 1939, came to Boston as. the home of Joseph Lee,
the prophet of the recreation movement.

Not a convention this. Not the annual meeting of a single institution but a parliament on
gracious living, not on living tomorrow only but also today.

The emphasis was‘ upon the child, the man, the woman and their needs as human beings.
Man is man only so far as he plays. Play is the sign of life. When play ends death is on its way.

There is the play of the very little child in the home or the nursery school, the play of
the family together, play in the school, the play of men at work in industry, in the department
store, recreation in the church, in the service clubs, in the farm or as in the open country—
as well as on the playground in the established recreation center. Leaders in the Y.M.C.A., the
settlements, the Boy Scouts, the Boys’ Clubs; the 4-H, the labor organizations, school and park
recreation workers, paid and volunteer came together to exchange ideas, to sing and to play
together.

If no one of the thirty-nine section meetings met an individual’s particular need, there
was time set aside just for special meetings on any recreation subject desired by those present.

One special meeting had only one person present. Sometimes there were only three or
four. The Society of Recreation Workers of America had its own meetings as did other
special groups.

Music, drama, arts and crafts, hiking, nature activities, winter sports were debated from
the human point of view of satisfaction in living without too much attention to institutions.
Anyone interested in “the enduring satisfaction of life” found perfect freedom of discussion with
college presidents and students, employers and employees, mayors, lay board members, volun-
teers joining in. The machinery of the -Congress was only such as to keep perfect freedom of
discussion. There was almost no mention of the National Recreation Association and its prob-
lems and its financing.

_ Even the questions to be discussed had come from all kinds of leaders from all kinds of
; places. Thirty-two years of experience are behind these Congresses,—the first was in Chicago
l in 1907 one year after the national movement was organized. All recreation groups, private as
well as governmental, and all individuals have been free to share in it. It has never been used
to push any political party, or serve the interest of any special religion, race or class. The one
i thought has been to build that life here and now be made more permanently satisfying.

 

One early Congress had meetings attended by 4,000 persons but smaller gatherings have
seemed on the whole more effective for real discussion purposes.

The Recreation Congress meets not to fight vice, crime, “liquor,” gambling, bad motion
_ pictures, burlesque, salacious literature, nor to control each individual’s growth but to build so
lmany delightful, normal opportunities for fairly inexpensive recreation that vigorous flowing
' life more nearly cares for itself and leaves little time and inclination for what men have found

through the centuries leaves afterward a very bitter taste in the mouth.

Such a free Congress on living is unique and is worth maintaining. Such a Congress is
anot an accident. It does not just happen. Back of it is the labor of many—of many who have
passed on. Thousands each year have some share in this free discussion platform which is a
slow and natural growth of thirty-two years. “fith such a Congress, rich in traditions, open
‘to all, serving all, we ought to do everything in our power to preserve its special quality, to
lavoid duplication that would weaken it, to try through our united effort to keep it free and

3 growing.
[ HOWARD BRAUCHER

‘

 

 

 

 [939 1,._ __/‘  

In.

 

425

November

 

f

Courtesy Red Cross CI

4.3M

l

Recreation in the World of Tomorrow

AM GRATEFUL to the

Women’s National Radio

Committee for providing
me with an opportunity to take
a look ahead in recreation.
Two women champions of
recreation come to mind at
once: the hrst is the beloved
Jane Addams, who set forth
the need for recreation so
powerfully and appealingly in
her book, “Youth and the
City Streets,” and who work-
ed for so many years of her useful life in an
effort to bring about better recreation for youth.

To my mind at once also comes Mrs. Eleanor
Roosevelt, who, in her own life, so perfectly il-
lustrates the best possible use of leisure time, and
who, only the other day, wrote that recreation is
next in importance to food, health, shelter and
education. In a recent conversation Mrs. Roose-
velt made two very telling points. She said that
with a more prohtable use of leisure time some
countries might have prevented much of the pres—
ent marching and counter-marching abroad. The
second point had to do with the incentives for
maintaining ourselves in the state of well-being.
Ann O’Hare McCormick, competent observer of
European affairs, was struck by the amazingly
fine physical condition of the youth of the dicta-
tor-led countries. One of the tasks that faces us
in the recreation of tomorrow is that of encourag-
ing our people of all ages to sustain themselves
in the best possible physical condition for their

own sakes rather than because the whip of na— .

tionalism and dictatorship is held over them.

The recreation of tomorrow must provide both
the incentive and the means for the maintenance
of physical health. The public parks and forests
of our nation will be opened to people of all
classes, and mountaintops, once the sanctum of a
few, will be used by all those who may be healed
in Spirit by them, and by all those, and may their
ranks increase, who want to try their legs, their
hearts, and their lungs against mountainsides. We
are on our way to the greater use of state parks,
with their increasing number of camping places,

\ where release may be found from the confines

of the modern kitchen. Improvements will bring

By MARK A. MCCLOSKEY

This broadcast, on September 2nd. was
one of a series on "Women in the World
of Tomorrow" presented by the Columbia
Broadcasting Company in cooperation
with the Women's National Radio Com-
mittee. Mr. McCloskey. who made the
broadcast at the request of the National
Recreation Association. is Director of

Recreational and Community Activities'
Board of Education' City of New York.

people to our great outdoor
places. For many years the
declining agricultural popu—
lation and an increasing in-
dustrial life have brought
millions of our people to the
cities. They will temporarily
return to green helds, moun-
tains, and forests for sane,
satisfactory exercise, and for
freedom from the dust, noise
and tempo of our great cities.

The recreation of tomor-
row Will {ind a way for all children in America to
have a camping experience; for them to see the
varying greens of nature without a background
of brick and mortar; to see where milk comes
from and how the food they eat grows; to see the
curve of hills and the shape of trees; to become
sensitive to the smells of the country as against
the city smells; and to tune their ears to recog-
nize the harmony of country noises in contrast to
those of the city. ‘

N umberless thousands of our city children
grow to manhood without a camping experience
in the country. We should vow that this experi-
ence shall not be denied to children now growing
up in this country. Great numbers of our- young
people are growing to maturity without ever hav-
ing tried their bodies against nature’s resistance.
No one should grow to maturity without having
tried his back against stone, wood, and water.
Dotted throughout the country now are work and
state camps providing this free experience. There
should be more of them. They are needed.

The recreation of tomorrow will find cheap
means of transportation so that our young people
can go about the country on their holidays, sens-
ing the spirit of other cities and states, appreciat-
ing the immensity and physical grandeur of our
nation, and traveling through the artificial walls
set up by provincialism. The CCC, among many
other accomplishments, contributed greatly to the
physical well-being of our youth and moved them
about the country, but many of them might well
have been wrapped in cellophane, for they traveled
in body but not in mind. Cheap transportation,
good hostels, an interpretation of the places seen,
stakes out another task for the new recreation.

[4’7

428

Under the impetus of the nation’s work relief
program the parks and playgrounds of our cities
have been increased tremendously. Golf courses,
tennis and handball courts have been multiplied.
The nation’s housing program is making provision
for recreational facilities. City and county plan-
ners are giving fundamental recognition to recre-
ational needs. We will never again see a blue-
print for proposed development without seeing on
it space for recreation. City streets will no longer
be the cities’ playgrounds. The thrill of active
games will be gotten without the added hazard of
dodging cars, and fewer streets will be wet with
the blood of children killed or maimed while
playing.

For a country that likes to get value for money
spent we have failed miserably to get our money’s
worth out of the billions of dollars invested in
school plants. In the old school buildings we
locked the gates at 3:00 P. M. and the spiked
fences kept children out. Now we put up fences
high enough to keep baseballs in. Adequate play
space will surround every school to provide plenty
of room to stretch limbs, to expand lungs, and to
keep from annoying neighbors as well. They will
be illuminated for use at night by adults and en-
gineered foro skating areas in winter.

In England they are constructing separate
buildings for adult education and recreation. I
believe this is unnecessary. We can and will plan
gymnasiums and auditoriums with easy access to
streets; put movable furniture in lower floor class-
rooms ;' place our shops and music rooms on the
lower levels of the buildings and scoop out the
earth under them for game rooms and club rooms
where adults may smoke and artificial light is no
handicap.

Let us construct school buildings with adequate
adult sanitary facilities and storage space for
chairs and equipment. The school auditorium
should be built so that it can be used for amateur

or professional dramatic performances. It should ~

be possible to shut off the upper part of the build-
ing so that there can be economy of heating and
lighting, as well as protection of the school
property.

Then, too, in the community school building of
tomorrow, many of our school administrators who
now think they hold the deed
of the school property in their
pockets will be relieved of that
idea and will recognize that the
schools belong to the public and

"Light streaming from the windows

of a schoolhouse by night can be
iust as patriotic a symbol as the

flag flying over it by day."

RECREATION [N THE IVORLD OF TOMORROW

that the public should enjoy their maximum use.
The problems of plant and maintenance can be
met if we agree that from the small town to the
big city that the public is wiser financially, politi-
cally, and socially which gets the full use of its
school plant.

Can’t you see in your mind’s eye what can take
place when you match the unoccupied time of the
school with the unoccupied time of the public?
In the afternoons children will come back to
school to play and do voluntarily those things in
which they became interested during the day;
they will enjoy the gayety of music and dancing,
and will have the satisfaction of finishing a job in
the shop; mothers and teachers will be giving con—
sideration to their common problems, and there
will be adult classes for those who can’t go out
evenings.

In these lighted community schools the game
rooms will be busy; the hobby groups will be at
work in the shops; the music rooms will give
forth sounds unpleasant to some but dear to the
hearts of those who make them; and the audi-
toriurn will house those who meet for their own
enlightenment, those who want to maintain the
political status quo and those who want to
change it.

The dramatics on the stage will run from high
to low; but good, bad or indifferent, it will be
loved by those who participate and their relatives.
Boy Scout troops and Girl Scout troops, social
clubs and voluntary learning groups will have a
place to meet, and there can be dancing all the
way from those who want to be jitter-bugs, or

whatever the prevailing mode is, to those who

want to enjoy the dance.

The various civic and social agencies of the

community will hold their meetings here. The
gymnasiums will be busy with those who want the
satisfaction of hard-fought games and those who
want to play badminton or reduce their waistlines.

The classrooms will be used by those who want ;
to fill up the gaps in their education, and their;- "

numbers should be great, for those who have.
stopped learning have stopped living.

What I have portrayed I have seen—thousands
of people passing into a school building at night
for all the activities I have described.

These schools and all recrea—
tional services they offer should
be manned by competent peo-
ple. To organize the leisure
time activities of people requires -

RECREATION IN THE WORLD OF TOMORROW 429

a high type of personnel. It is not a job for
weight-lifters or dumbbell exercisers. It is a job
for a professional recreation staff paid at profes-
sional wages, and we should be glad to pay them,
for they would be very useful members of our
community.

All of this will cost money. Of course it will.
But we will be unwise not to spend money on it.
On the morrow we will not talk about recrea-
tion as though it were just a panacea for juvenile
delianency or
maladjusted be—
havior. It must
be more than
that. I have not
been talking
a b o u t s a n d—
boxes, wading
pools, swings and '
slides. Recrea-
tion must be that
and more, too. I
haven’t drawn
much distinction
between edUCa-
tion and recrea—
tion. I don’t
know how to
make that dis-

' tinction. Educa-
tion should be
recreational, and
recreation should
beeducational.
They are both a
part of living
and learning.

The increased leisure

I time of our people must be

1‘ used for developing our democratic culture. What

i we do in our leisure time will very much deter-

l mine what our civilization will be, what the quality
of our experience and what the quality of our

: people will be like.

Tomorrow’s recreation program can do much
to promote the love of our country. It can do
much to break down our prejudices and make tol-
erance a really living thing and not a concept to
which we give lip service. The interest in com-
mon, worth—while activities can dispossess the
baser feelings of dislike and distrust. This sum—
mer I was thrilled to hear 17,000 children of all

' 'colors and creeds singing and.dancing in an in-

 

At the Tyson Schoener Recreation Center
in Reading, Pennsylvania, is an orches-
tra which conforms to its own pattern!

ternational song and dance festival—beautiful to
the eyes and ears, and I was grateful that these
children could sing and dance without fear in
their hearts.

Our recreation program of tomorrow shall
eternally seek for the preservation of cultural dif-
ferences in our people and appreciation of those
differences. A new cultural pattern can be in the
making in America—a fusing of all the best that
has come to us from other lands.

Here’s to the
recreation of to-
morrow! May it
bring us sound,
straight, grace-
ful, healthy bod-
ies. May it bring
us an apprecia-
tion and an un-
derstanding of
our country and
its people. May
i t m a k e o u 1'
hands skilled to
produce those
things which are
pleasant and
beautiful to us.
Here’s to songs
coming from
hearts unafraid,
and to dancing
for pleasure and
for grace, and
here’s to the con-
flict in games
that tames the savage in-
stincts in us. Here’s to the
place and chance for calm
and solitude to balance the drive of our American
life. Here’s to those who recognize the need for
_statesmanship and leadership in this field Whose
edges have just been plowed. Here’s to those who

have pioneered for recreation in America!

I was supposed to talk to you on recreation in
the world of tomorrow. That was impossible. In
the whole world round, save here, men march to
one rhythm and march in one direction—to de-
struction. May the “right about” command come
soon in all languages, and may the promise that
the new leisure and recreation holds for us in this
beloved country be soon on their horizons as well.

A Creative Community Christmas

six thousand, the center

of a rural county in
mid—Wisconsin, but it might
have been in a much larger
town, a completely urban
area, and still have called
into a meaningful com-
munity expression the vari-
ed and often hidden gifts
of all kinds and ages of the people living there.

Early in November, at two “leaders’ ” meetings
of rural club representatives especially interested
in music, and at an evening meeting open to all
members of the clubs, there was, after some gen-
eral singing and simple talk about music, a sug-
gestion that we take advantage of the nearness of
Christmas and celebrate that happy occasion with
a simple festival. We sang “Silent Night” and
recalled how much more deeply and warmly we
feel the meanings of Christmas when we sing
carols. That deepening of the meanings of an oc—
casion, so that we enter fully into them, was said
to be the main purpose of a festival. What are
the meanings of Christmas? we asked. The won-
der, reverence, and divine promise of the coming
of the Child, and the love of our children and a
sense of their high promise that go with that
wonder and reverence is one set of Christmas
meanings. Another has to do with the ancient
peoples’ ever recurring renewal of hope and joy
at the winter solstice, the general friendliness and
jollity, with the feasting, the burning yule log, and
the delight in the evergreen trees and in the plants
that maintain their freshness and beauty even
when all the other trees and plants have seem-
ingly died.

What can we do to celebrate the wonder and
reverence, the religious side? was asked. The tell-
ing of the Christmas story was suggested—a Na-
tivity Play. St. Francis of Assisi, it was said, was
confronted by this same question when he gave
the first Nativity Play in 1223 to make the story
plain to the country people of his community in
Italy. Some talk of how he did it was now given,
and it was suggested that we together make such
a play with no directions save what are implied in
the story itself as told by St. Luke and St. Mat-
thew. To heighten the interest in doing this and

430

I T WAS IN a town of about

By A. D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

The story of a simple Christmas
festival which called into mean-
ingful community expression the
varied gifts of many people

to enrich the emotional tone
of the meeting, a series of
stereopticon slides* was
shown of paintings of the
Nativity, the Adoration of
the Magi, and related scenes
by the great and worship-
ful masters of old Italy.
The leader played familiar
carols appropriate to the
pictures as they were shown.

A sort of synopsis of the play—to—be was then
written on a blackboard as suggestions for the
making of it were given by various individuals in
the group. And as each scene and episode was
described, the question as to what carols could be
sung to accompany it was asked. Three carols not
generally known by the audience were suggested
at appropriate points by the leader, but all the
other carols were suggested by the people them—
selves. Each of the carols was sung amidst our
discussion, making the latter more interesting
and vital.

This done, though tentatively, we talked again
of the jolly aspects of Christmas, sang “Deck the
Hall with Boughs of Holly,” and then discussed
how we could celebrate those aspects fully. Lack—
ing immediate response and being conscious of the
approaching limitations of time and energy, the
leader suggested that the decorating of the hall,
the hanging of the greens, be itself an occasion
for celebrating with jollity and procession andl
lights. The outcome of this discussion will be ap-
parent in the description of the final program;
which follows.

Before the leader left the county center where
the meetings were held, a committee was formed
of a group of people who met at a luncheon to
discuss the Christmas festivities. This group was
comprised of the music chairman of the county:
federation of clubs, the county superintendent of I
schools, the superintendent and the music teacherl
of the schools in the county center, the principal,I
the music teacher and the art teacher of the.l
county normal school, a leading minister, the
county agricultural agent and home demonstra-
tion agent, a volunteer drama leader who lives in

 

* Obtainable from art museums, some public libraries, and uni-
versrty art departments’.

u—uj—

i

l

A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS

the county, the University’s own Extension Ser-
vice drama leader, its part-time music leader, and
the visiting music leader from the National Rec-
reation Association. This group gave unanimous
approval of the festival project. The most im-
portant feature of the project, for OUI‘ purpose,
was the expressed intention to try to interest all
members of all the rural clubs in singing familiar
carols and learning new ones at their regular meet—
ing or meetings in the ensuing month in prepara-
tion for the festival. Another intention was to
have the children in the schools sing the same
carols. The school music teacher, though exceed-
ingly busy, was very willing to give what time
she could to helping in the project of having the
homemakers’ and other clubs learn the carols. One
of her high school students might also help, she
said. It was expected that some of the county
normal school students could also help in this
project. The dramatic side of the festival was to
be worked on by a few people who had had ex—
perience in the production of plays in previous
years in the county. This drama group had not
undertaken any play for this year and so could
take the Nativity Play as its next project.

The home demonstration agent was shown
some very interesting plans and directions for
home Christmas decorations that might happily
engage many a person in contributing in that way
to the enrichment of Christmas meanings. It was
hoped that the Christmas festival would in this
way, as well as in other ways, be related to the
everyday life of many a home, having its roots
there and leaving them there to be nurtured
throughout the year by what in many instances
might be a new-found interest in family cultural
expression. The singing of carols in the clubs, to
sing them better and learn new ones, was to do
likewise for those groups, especially since this
singing was to be really significant, expressive and
lovable, not merely amusing or rousing.

It was believed that much of our effort at musi-
cal culture starts mistakenly where the branches
and leaves are, which can be plainly seen and ac-
claimed, and neglects the roots, with results that
should be expected from such an approach. The
idea of having the school children learn the same
carols that are being learned by their parents was
mainly for the same purpose of bringing about
family participation in the homes. The high
school a cappella choir was to have a very sig—
nificant part in the festival, thus again linking the
schools—this time in one of their best, most culti-

431

vated activities—with the life of people outside.
Another reason for the intertwining of music,
drama, crafts, procession, home decoration, and
beauty of other kinds was the idea that running
through them all, at best, is the same inherent will
to live more fully and significantly, to find some-
thing we love to do, and to give ourselves to it
just because it is lovable and inspiriting and not
merely another tribute to necessity or to our ma—
terial wants. All that is best in individual and
social living springs from that will. Music seems
to be its purest and most direct expression and the
most ready to awaken and nurture it. But for the
sake of the individual or group life as a whole.
and even for the sake of musical enjoyment it-
self, that will needs to find satisfaction in such
other kinds of expression as have been mentioned,
and even in one’s daily work and social behavior.
For some people, perhaps many, not music but
some other medium will provide the initial or
main means of awakening and nurturing that
wellspring of full, significant living.

Invitations had been sent to ministers and choir-
masters to come together to consider ways of
making the most of music’s place in the church.
A stock of fine, simple choir music for Christmas
was brought by the visiting music leader, as well
as ideas for making more of congregational sing-
ing with the thought that there might be interest
in having a joining of choirs and any existing
secular choruses in another festive Christmas cele—
bration, this one purely musical. But only two or
three churchmen responded to the invitation, and
the meeting to which they were invited was also
for club leaders and normal school students so
that little could be done with respect to the special
interests of the churches.

During the afternoon the president of the
county federation of clubs had been asked to be
chairman of the Christmas festival committee.
She had not been at the luncheon meeting so there
is no telling what her ideas as to the project were
when, after the evening celebration, she told the
departing music leader that the festival must be
held during his next visit, a month later. Though
he explained that his purpose was to help local
people to prepare and direct the festival them-
selves, his next visit being only to help them
further along the way, she insisted, saying that
next year they may do the whole thing themselves
but “this first year we must be sure that it is done
as well as possible.” She had already arranged
for an early meeting of'the committee to ma1<e

432 A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS

definite plans and set them in motion. Moreover.
the Agricultural Extension Service music leader,
who had attended every meeting held during the
two days, was to come again in a week or two to
give further help if it were needed.

The Festival

It began with a procession of about thirty carol-
lers who came from a rear entrance singing the
gay “Here We Come A-Carolling.” Many of the
audience, having learned this carol in our rehears-
als, also sang. The carollers in the procession
were of all ages and sizes from a four—year-old
to a sixty-five year old farmer who had his red
lined winter cap turned inside out, and each one
carried a wreath or other Christmas greenery. At
the head of this gay procession was the Spirit of
Joy, a lovely high school girl in appropriate cos—
tume. When she reached the steps in front of the
middle of the stage, she arose to the second step,
beckoned her carolling followers to stand on either

side of the steps, and exclaimed:

“I am the Spirit of Joy:
Here at the Christmastide
Where hearts are united,

I come to abide.

Let your candles be lighted,
Your holly be hung,

Your hearth fire be merry,
Your carols be sung.”

“In this of all houses
The Christ Child will bide:
Make room for His coming,
Throw the door wide;
Hang your greens for His welcome,
Trim gaily your tree
Put wreaths in your windows,
Follow me, follow me I” *

Then, as she resumed her place in front of the
line of carollers, she and they again walked gaily
around the hall hanging the wreaths on the walls
and distributing the other greenery on window sills,
the front of the stage, and the top of the piano
while everyone sang “Deck the Hall with Boughs
of Holly.”

It was at this point that two groups of school
children came marching in, each from a separate
entrance, one group singing “I Saw Three Ships
Come Sailing In” and the other, later, singing the
gay Burgundian carol, “Patapan,” with its Willie
and his drum and its Robin and his whistle lead-
ing the procession.

 

' This poem and much else of the ceremon of hanging the greens
and lighting the candles were drawn rom the celebration of

Christmas carried on at the Y.W.C.A. in Wausau, Wisconsin,
each year.

The decorating done, and the Spirit of Joy once
more back at the steps, she now called for the
lighting of candles, saying:

“We’ll touch the taper in our hearts
To the Hame of the Advent Star,

And set the light to 'burn a path
Where the shadowed places are.”

“And some who never lift their eyes
To the Star that floods the night
May find their way to Bethlehem
By our friendly taper’s light.”

Then to each of the two seven-tapered cande-
labra, set at either side of the curtained stage,
went a blue costumed “page,” one a boy and the
other a girl, each bearing a lighted taper. As the
girl lighted a candle, a member of the county
drama committee, seated inconspicuously off to
the side and front of the audience and half facing

the latter, read :

“We light a candle for the light
and wonder in children’s eyes
as they greet Christmas morn.”

Then, as the boy lighted a candle on his can-
delabrum, she read another sentence, this one for
the fragrance of balsam and pine. And so the
candlelighting and reading went on until each of
the fourteen candles had been lighted for some
joy of Christmas.

Now the high school a cappella choir sang the
Bach “Break Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly
Light” from behind the closed curtains. Then the
audience sang “0 Little Town of Bethlehem,”
after which a shepherd’s piping was heard from
behind those curtains. The latter then parted, and
we saw in dim light five shepherds watching their
flocks by night, one of them walking slowly about
while the others reclined or sat about a lire.
These, of various ages, were the best Christmas ,7
shepherds we have ever seen. Three of them were?
well bearded for the evening and all were in heavy
bathrobes and other simple adornment just right
for an ancient shepherd’s wintry night. When the
angel appeared, whom they had indeed never seen' :‘
before, and chanted the great news, their astoné 
ishment was as real a thing as could be seen on a
stage, and their movements in awe and reverence
were also very convincing. After the angels?
Gloria the audience sang as to the shepherds, “0
Leave Your Sheep, Ye Shepherds on the Hills.”
They left to seek the Child while the audience re»:
counted what they had just seen in singing the
first three stanzas of “The First Nowell.”

The curtains being now closed, the audience
sang “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” thus

A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS 433

incidentally filling the time needed to change the Finally ten of the high school girls, all in lovely
scene. When the manger scene now appeared, white dresses, came also from the rear of the hall,
.Mary was singing the beautiful French “Lullaby each bearing a lighted candle, as we all sang
of the Christ Child.” (She, a rural schoolteacher, “Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella.” The scene
was the most beautiful Mary imaginable, but de- was now complete, holding Mary, Joseph and the
spite much eager effort on her part she could not manger, the shepherds, the kings and the children,
be sure of the tune so two of the high school girls the latter’s candles seeming to join in sweet,
sang in the wings near her while she sang.) happy praise those on the still lighted candelabra
Joseph was excellent also. The audience then on either side of the front of the stage. We all
sang “Silent Night,” during the last stanza of (Continued 0,, page 474)

which the shepherds
came down an aisle from

the rear Of the  on 0   

their Way to the  English version by Old French Carol
    Katherine Huntington (Arranged)
tomed to tending farm mp Allegretto <

   
     
    
     

animals and walking on SOPRANO
rough ground, were again
ideal people for their
part. Their crooks were
tall sunHower stalks.
While the shepherds
made their obeisance to
the Child, the audience
sang “Away in a Man~
ger.” Then the three
kings in the rear of the
hall were heard singing
their “We Three Kings
of Orient Are” as they
came toward the manger.
Excellent kings they
! were, with costumes bor-
rowed from a local lodge,
and being members of the

1. 0 leave your sheep, You shep-herds on the hills,——- Leave
2. Come from a - have, He in " a man - ger lies, -— The
3. 0 East - ern Kings, Led by a shi - ning star.

 

   
  

fields and rocks, And all the care of flocks,-—-- Your sor - row
Ho - ly Child, So in - no - cent and mild! —— What per - fect
voi - ces raise Be - fore the babe in praise I— Your hom - age

     
 
 
 

 

 
 
  
   
 

‘
--"' I
____- V
-—_—

 

 

. . 67836. -<:: mf <
local V 1k1ng Chorus they .; —-==—
. sang well and with ma- __g::—— - ': 
. Jestic confidence. ' l‘“ " " J

Come hith - er and a
0n earth to seek for

 

deep Now change to joy that thrills,
love Has brought Him from the skies,

 

brings Gifts price - less from a - far.-——.- 0 give to Him as
The carol presented {I f <
171
here has been taken are“. I, 4 ‘ 1‘ l I" J 4 _F_ 4

    

from "l6 National
' Christmas Carols"
copyrighted and pub-
lished by the E. C.
Schirmer Music Com-
pany, Boston. Used
by permission. The

d0re Your God your God, your God who heals your grief so sore.
CZmE’lel: 59+ may life you! He is,’ He is, He is a shep-herd kind and true.
0. lame by rem'l' well Your hearts, your hearts, your hearts that in them He may dwell.
tmg forty cents to
the publisher. f; . .p. ,9.

g . —- —-—

 

What They Say About Recreation

" CIIOOL SYSTEMS which close buildings at

S night are not only saving light and heat, they

are denying light and heat spiritually.”—

Dr. Edwin A. Lee, Teachers College, Columbia
University.

“In the complexities and pressures of modern
life, our children’s leisure is in grave danger of
extinction. So insistent are the many demands
upon their time and attention that unless we do
plan a so-called leisure program, their leisure is
likely to disappear altogether beneath the rushing
waves of doing things and going places. Organize
leisure we must—or at least we must plan for it.
But in so doing we must also be careful to pre—
serve the very essence of leisure—the quality of
spontaneity and choice.”-——-]osetta Frank in “Chil-
dren and Their Leisure Activities,” Childhood

Education, June 1939.

“It is the non—commercial and community pro-
ducing groups existing all across the country that
are responding to the desire of the American peo—
ple for a non-merchandized, personal theatre. It
is very largely through them that a national thea-
ter is coming into being. They are closer to the
people than any professional theater can be and,
therefore, at their best they present a truer and
more fundamental reflection of American life and
thought.”--—Gilmore Brown.

It is signihcant that in the statement of phi-
losophy of Sun-Yat-Sen, who 'did so much to
create national feeling in China, one of the three

“To very few of us comes the opportunity for
adventure in far-off, unexplored lands, but fresh
experience that stirs the soul pleasantly is adven-
ture, and all about us lie little-known regions. The
old frontiers are gone, but close to our dooryards
lie the new frontiers, the preserving and restoring
of our plant and animal life. On these frontiers
every citizen may become an adventurer.” Mary
C. Butler in Happy Nature Adventures.

“Some contemplative freedom is required, and
some spiritual insight, to discern and realize, even
in the sports we ourselves play, the ardor of the
true amateur who, sportive and glad in each
moment of action, unperturbed by check or loss,
by triumph or victory, delighting in the loyal and
generous contest, rises to the creative joy of an
art that would express the utmost possibilities of
skilled‘ and disciplined play.”——Percy Hughes in
Journal of Health and Physical Education.

“N 0 one can look at the world situation today
without recognizing the unique function of edu-
cation in a democracy where the wisdom, the
morality, and the vitality of the state, and the
freedom, well-being, and happiness of the popula—
tion rest so directly upon the education of all the
people. It may well be doubted if there can be a.
democracy without free education, or anything:

else but democracy where education is free.”-—:
Dr. Luther Gulz'cle. j'

 

“If an individual is to be an adequate or aI
superior adult, successful in his undertakings and :’

items emphasized was, “The people are to enjoy
life.” The other two were: “The people are to

have national loyalty” and “The people are to
govern.”

“Increased leisure, brought about by the inven-
tion of so much machinery, brings another new
problem to education. There must be training for
the prOper use of leisure time and there must be
facilities which will enable adults to use their lei-
sure to good advantage.”-—Dr. Ben C. Graham,

President of the American Association of School
Administrators, N.E.A.

434

well adjusted to the civilization in which he lives,
then that person needs to have had a happy,
Wholesome childhood filled With worth—While ac:
tivities. And of all the activities of childhood play
is the most worth-while. The successful adult is,
nine times out of ten, the person who was a suc-
cessful child, and by successful child we mean not
the child who works steadily to prepare for his
future maturity, but the child who gets most out
of, and puts most into, the life of the present.”—.—-
Dr. Josephine Foster in Busy Childhood.

A Christmas Present to Decatur

t' CHRISTMAS present to
A Decatur” is what the
holiday shoppers
from near and far proclaim
the Christmas Village in
Central Park, Decatur, Il-
linois, erected and operated each
year by the Department of Pub-
lic Recreation under the sponsor-
ship of the Retail Merchant’s
Bureau of the Association of
Commerce. The Christmas Village is not a com-
mercial enterprise and no commercial aspect of
any description is in any way promoted or linked
with the activities of the Village.

The Christmas Village is erected prior to
Thanksgiving Day of each year. On the day after
Thanksgiving Santa Claus is brought to Decatur,
usually by train, and after a parade with appro-

priate ceremony is installed at the Village where
are to be found Santa’s Post Office, his Work

Shop, and a Marionette Theater. At his Post
Office, Santa interviews

The Retail Merchants Bureau of
the Decatur, Illinois, Association
of Commerce each year pre-
sents a Christmas gift to the
city in the Christmas Village

By R. WAYNE GILL

Superintendent of Public Recreation
Decatur. Illinois

broadcasts daily radio pro-

grams over Station WJBL,
Decatur, and through the
cooperation of the local
postmaster children can mail
their Santa letters in a reg-
ulation mail box, postage free.

In the Santa Workshop, new
toys are made and old toys re-
paired by workmen dressed in the
conventional red and white, for
the “Christmas Goodfellow Guild,” an organiza-
tion of women who operate a Christmas store for
the benefit of needy and underprivileged families.

Santa’s Marionette Theater completes the group
of buildings, and during productions is a magnet
for both young and old. Performances are given
at three different periods each week day. Sessions
are one hour and a half in length, and four com-
plete performances are given during each session.

Through an agreement of the local Retail
Merchants, the Santa Claus at the Village in Cen-
tral Park. is the only
Santa in Decatur. In-

the children each day,

With Workshop. Marionette Theater and Post Office.

Decatur is ready to meet any Christmas emergency!

 

436 A CHRISTMAS PRESENT To DECATUR

dividual stores do not employ men to play Santa,
but cooperate in the promotion of the Christmas
Village. Parents in the community have been re—
lieved from the task of explaining “why” so many
Santas, for in Decatur there is only one. Children
hear Santa’s voice on the radio broadcasts, and
when they meet him face to face and hear him
talk they can really believe their eyes.

In the course of two weeks last year Santa
received in his post office box over one thousand
letters from the children of this and surrounding
communities. He held in the neighborhood of
four thousand interviews with youngsters, and
made twenty—six fifteen minute radio broadcasts
,during which he would tell of the activities at the
Christmas Village and invite his little friends who
were listening in to call for a chat. He gave the
names of boys and girls who sent letters and on
each broadcast read one or two letters over the
’air. Noise-making toys were used on the broad-
casts such as horns, crying dolls, trains, and air-
planes. There was always a crowd of boys and
girls gathered at the door of the Post Office at
broadcasting time, and Santa would usually end
his broadcasts by having the children at his head-
quarters join him in singing Christmas carols.

At Santa’s Workshop children may see toys
being made by Santa’s helpers. All types of new
wooden toys are made and old toys are repaired.
In connection with the Christmas Village project,
five hundred new toys were made, and one thou-
sand old toys were reconditioned. These toys
were then distributed by the Goodfellow Guild
through their Christmas Store to needy and un-
derprivileged children.

The Marionette Theater, with its variety of
shows, furnished thousands of Christmas shop-
pers, both young and old, a few moments of
amusement, fun and relaxation during the rush of
the holiday season when everyone seemed bent on
catching up with the bewhiskered old gentleman.
During the 1938 season the theater presented five
different shows. Four of the productions were
given during the daytime sessions, and one, the
Nativity, a sacred production, was given at night.
The day shows included: “The Prologue,” “Frau
Lumpkin’s Kindergarten,” “Swingin’ Mother
Goose,” and “Santa’s Circus.”

A Santa Marionette was the master of cere-
monies in all day shows. In “The Prologue”
Santa represented America and played host to
welcome all his friends from foreign lands. Ten

characters made up the cast for the Prologue,
bringing greetings to Decatur.

The kindergarten sketch, “Frau Lumpkin’s
Kindergarten,” was a Dutch scene drawn in tulip
time in Holland. Santa visited the kindergarten,
much to the embarrassment of Frau Lumpkin, in
tulip time, “just to check on her girls and boys,
and mark in his book either good or poor, and
put in his order for his toys.” Santa and Frau
Lumpkin made many forget their troubles with
their acting and lines over whether Frau Lump—
kin’s chimney should be enlarged or Santa’s “great
big tummy” reduced.

The outstanding attraction of the Toyland
Revue was “Swingin’ Mother Goose,” which
captured the fancy of the crowd all during the
season. Mother, Goose, geared to swing time, was
scored as a “smash hit” from her debut. Opening
the scene, Mother Goose appeared old and de-
pressed as she entered on the back of her fowls,
who also seemed about ready to call it a day! Old
King Cole, Little Boy Blue and Bo-Peep were
other characters on whom life was beginning to
tell. But Santa, to the delight of the crowds, had
a remedy——swing music! Under Santa’s direction
Little Boy Blue came through with such fine
swing tunes as “Toy Trumpet,” “Old King Cole,”
and “Rhythm In My Nursery Rhymes,” as the
characters fell to trucking and pecking in a fiery
jam session which restored their youth.

The final show of the group, “Santa’s Circus,”
was the delight of youngsters and oldsters as well.
Featuring a galaxy of trick characters, the ring
master paraded the acts in rapid-fire order before
an awed and astonished public. The favorites of
the circus skit were: the elastic man in top hat, L
who stretched from six to thirty-six inches in
height, his partner Toto, the clown, and the dis— '
appearing lady. ‘

“The Nativity, ”a sacred production, was shown
only at night and was truly a masterpiece in mari-
onette construction, manipulation and lighting.
The story of the nativity was written in seven
scenes. The characters were: Mother Mary, the
Prophet, Joseph, the Three Wise Men, King,- 1'
Herod and the Shepherds. Beautiful sets and"
lighting effects that portrayed the scenes to the
best possible advantage held the large crowds in :
quiet meditation even after the final scene, “The'
Prophecy Fulfilled,” was reverently blacked out.

The equipment necessary to put on the first pro-.
duction in 1936 amounted to approximately $350:

(Continued on page 475)

"Boystowns" for Cleveland Youth

Ix POLICE precinct stations
S in Cleveland are used for
crime prevention instead
of places in which to incarcer-
ate lawbreakers. These police
stations are neighborhood “City
Halls” where boys eight to
eighteen years of age are carrying
on a model self-governing project.
The miniature communities are call—
ed “Boystowns” and a youthful mayor, council-
men, and judges elected by the citizens of each
“town” conduct municipal affairs just as a real
city administration runs a city.

More than three thousand boys have become
members of “Boystowns” since they were or-
ganized last January. They have set up their own
courts; they have written their city charters; and
with the help of city and WPA recreation super-
visors the boys have planned a program of cul-
tural, physical education and craft activities for
the coming year. The movement has received en-
thusiastic support from all juvenile authorities.
service clubs, school officials and similar groups
in Cleveland who believe this is an effective way
of preventing juvenile delinquency.

Experiments similar in some respects to the
Cleveland “Boystown” movement have been tried
before. Such a plan was started in 1904 at the
Hudson (Ohio) Boys’ Farm. Hiram House, a
settlement house in Cleveland directed by George
gBellamy, has supported a program known as
j“Progress City” during the summer for a number
inf years. The “Boys’ Brotherhood Republic” in
Chicago was incorporated in 19I4 and is still
aperating. Cleveland juvenile authorities believe,
nowever, that never before has such a program to
:ombat juvenile delinquency been planned on a
:ity-wide, year-around basis. In these Boystowns
pll boys are eligible for membership; they make
their own rules, mete out punishment according
:o the dictates of juries composed of their mem-
)ers, and actually control the administration of
.heir affairs. Adults serve only as advisors and
must consult with the boys before new plans are
adopted or old ones changed.

j The Boystown idea in Cleveland is the result
bf several years’ study by police and recreatiOn
juthorities. These officials realized that the annual

A large city attacks its

crime prevention problem

through the organization
of "Boystowns"

By FRED KELLY
Division of Recreation

Cleveland. Ohio

cost of crime in the United
States, according to the De-
partment of Justice, is about
$18,ooo,ooo,ooo—half the na-
tional debt. They knew also
that seventy-five to eighty per
cent of all criminals have pre-
vious records as juvenile delinquents.
In an effort to correct this appalling
condition a crime prevention bu-
reau was organized in the Police Department. An
officer particularly adapted to getting along with
school children was put in charge. He talked with
hundreds of youngsters in the course of conduct-
ing safety Work and found out who were the
leaders of neighborhood gangs. He discovered
one major cause of delinquency—lack of any pro-
gram in school or recreation centers Where boys
who were natural leaders could command a fol-
lowing except for antisocial enterprises. If it were
possible, the ofhcer told his superiors, to give these
boys who were leaders the opportunity for lead-
ership in constructive rather than destructive
channels, we might be on the way to a real solu-
tion of juvenile crime. ‘
Juvenile authorities know that it is misdirected
leadership of boys that causes gangs to plunder
and rob rather than engage in pursuits making for
good citizenship. But the question for decades
has been, “How can we encourage leadership in
worthwhile activities for a large mass of our

neglected youth P”

Housing the Experiment

Last fall the golden opportunity presented it-
self. In reorganizing the Cleveland Police De-
partment six old precinct stations located in slum
areas were abandoned. Civic groups had many
suggestions for the use of the buildings. Some
wanted settlement houses, others suggested branch
libraries or recreation centers. Police and recrea-
tion officials, however, had made up their minds
on the future of these old buildings. The chance
they had been waiting for finally had arrived.
loys' communities with each precinct as its city
hall would be organized. Talents for youthful
leadership which formerly had been dissipated in
delinquent pursuits now could be turned to de-
veloping model communities in which boys would

.15, 437

438 “BOYSTOWNS” FOR CLEVELAND YOUTH

learn good government, self-reliance, and respect
for law and order.

The idea took hold immediately. Harold H.
Burton, Mayor of Cleveland, appointed three
members of his administration to serve as a com-
mittee to put the Boystown program into opera-
tion. Recreation Commissioner J. Noble Richards
and Assistant Safety Director Robert Chamber-
lin, who had been active in the crime prevention
movement among boys, were named; the third
committee member was Robert Burri, Assistant
Director of the Department of Public Health and
Welfare. All three had had experience in dealing
with juvenile problems, and each serves a depart-
ment that is instrumental in carrying out the
Boystown program.

Heat, light, water, and the general maintenance
of the precinct buildings were continued by the
Safety Department. The Recreation Division
supervised the boys’ activities for the first few
months until they were able to take over entirely
their local government. The committee decided
to place special emphasis on a health program.
Were child health properly protected in delin-
quency areas, the committee felt that the con-
tributing causes of delinquency in the field of
physical pathology would tend to be eliminated.
The city Welfare Department, therefore, was as-
signed the task of making periodic health examin-

ations, both mental and physical, and teaching
correct health habits.

The Form of Government Adepted

Boystowns’ governmental structure is modeled
on Cleveland’s OWn municipal administration. Ten

elective positions for each “town” consisting of a-

mayor, seven councilmen, and two judges are pro-
posed by the committee and filled at a general
election. The voters are all boys who had been
registered for fifteen days prior to the election.
In addition to these elective officials, the mayor
of each “town” selects a cabinet consisting of a
law director, safety director, finance director, ser-
vice director and welfare director. Other appoin-
tees are a city clerk, fire chief and police chief.

Duties of these officers are similar in some ways
to those of real city officials. Of course, the same
problems do not confront a neighborhood club
that stalk most city officials. In the Boystown
communities such duties as supervision of a phy-
sical education program are an additional duty of
the safety director. The director of law looks

after‘oflice equipment. The cultural deve10pment
program is under the service director who is also
in charge of the general care and upkeep of the
buildings and grounds. Each director is charged
with the responsibility of a project particularly
pertinent to the Boystown program, as well as the
normal duties of his position.

In outlining the initial program it was the pur—
pose of the committee to start the boys in their
governmental experiment with only the bare es—
sentials. Even the task of drafting a city charter
for each “town” was left in the hands of the
young officials, although experienced adults were
available for advice. They felt that the boys
would learn many of the fundamentals of gov-
ernment if they, themselves, wrote their own
charter. Moreover, the committee did not attempt
to completely furnish or renovate the old precinct
stations. The building of furniture and painting
of the buildings, the committee believed, would
serve as an excellent objective for the first two or
three months’ operation of Boystowns.

Making the Plan Known

The general plan of procedure was worked out
by the mayor’s committee before any public an-
nouncement was made of the project. Shortly
after the first of the year bulletins were posted
on the five precinct stations announcing the‘date
of the primary elections and urging all boys in
the neighborhood to register so as to be able to
vote. Announcements .also were made in the pub-
lic schools. Boys in classes from the fourth grade
up through high school were asked to stop in and
look over the premises. News of the coming.
election spread quickly. By the middle of janui
ary more than one thousand had registered and.
heated primary campaigns were being conducted
at each “town.” Election day was set for Febru-
ary first.

There was nothing immature about the Boys:
town primary elections. Boys who were leaders
soon asserted themselves. To win .the nomina-
tions, it was explained, a definite platform of
what they expected to accomplish must be es-
tabli'shed. One sixteen-year—old aspirant for
mayor told his “citizens,” “I’m going to appoint a
police chief to make you fellows behave. Not a
husky one. That doesn’t make a good chief. A
good cop is a fellow who is honest and trust-r
worthy.” Believe it or not, this boy won the
nomination.

“BOYSTOWNS” FOR CLEVELAND YOUTH 439

The First Election Is Held

Two weeks after the primaries, Boystowns held
their first general election. Two candidates were
running for each office, and as election day neared
the hve old precincts took on the atmosphere of a
Democratic or Republican convention. Candidates
were buttonholing their friends, promising favors
and appointments if votes could be swung for them.
Platforms were extended to include almost every
attraction to citizens of teen age. One boy whose
best friend was a candidate for mayor took upon
himself the duties of police chief. “When my
friend is elected,” he said, “I will be appointed
police chief, so I might just as well start in now
keeping order.”

At another Boystown a “dark horse” suddenly
entered the running. Feeling the term “dark
horse” not descriptive enough he called himself
the “black horse.” By waging a “write in” cam-
paign he succeeded in winning one of the mayor-
alty positions.

To discourage too extravagant promises, super—
visors of the elections told the candidates that
their administrations would have to win re—elec-
tion or go down to defeat in the next year’s elec-
tion “on their records.” This thought served to
keep the campaign promises within reason.

In a genuine voting day atmosphere of vigor—
-our electioneering and a pro-

movie, “Boystown,” wired his congratulations.
The boys were introduced to the mayor and other
prominent persons in the city before a radio
microphone. For a time, it seemed that their new
positions might interfere with their schooling, that
this publicity might completely disrupt their lives.
Though it is possible the publicity given the young
mayors did give them an undue sense of import-
ance, the glamor served to impress on them the
seriousness and responsibility of their positions.
There was no doubt in the minds of the boys that
the welfare and growth of each Boystown de-
pended upon their individual efforts. The com-
mittee, remaining in the background during the
introduction of the mayors to city officials, be-
lieved that the ceremony would help impress the
young officials with their responsibility.

Learning About Government

Soon after the mayoralty election the cabinets
of each Boystown were appointed. Arrangements
were made for these officers to visit the various
city department heads and obtain a glimpse of
municipal operation before attacking their own
problems. The Boystown mayors spent a morn-
i11g with Mayor Burton and sat in on a session of
the City Plan Commission; council members at-
tended several Cleveland council meetings, and
the ten Boystown judges, two from each town,
were invited to sit as guest
judges on the bench and hear

fusion of campaign signs, bal-
loting was conducted in an
prderly fashion. Six mayors
and the other elective officials
jwere chosen, their ages rang—
ing from fourteen to eighteen.
jBefore being inducted into of—
ice, all promised to take a
eader'ship in the city’s juve-
nile crime prevention program.

Probably no other six boys
n Cleveland or America ever
vere transported so quickly
'rom the narrow confines of
heir lives to the glaring light
If public attention. First local
tewspapers, then journals in
ither cities, recognizing the
.niqueness of the Boystown
movement, carried articles and
lictures of the new mayors.
fiickey Rooney, the juvenile
[layor in the Hollywood

i

 

  
  
 
  

And while we're reading about
the boys of Cleveland, let's give
a thought to all the boys and
girls banded together in the
American Junior Red Cross!

 

civil and criminal cases. Con-
ferences between Boystown
and city cabinet officers were
arranged and the function of
each city department explained
to the boys.

A few weeks after the elec-
tion three thousand boys were
registered and taking part in
governing the towns. Even
girls of the community were
clamoring for admittance. The
question of whether or not to
admit the girls was left up to
the boys, who overwhelmingly
voted to bar them!

The enthusiasm of mer-
chants, professional persons,
and others in Cleveland for the
movement is amazing. With-
out solicitation, one radio dealer
donated a radio to each Boys—

440 “BOYSTOWNS” FOR CLEVELAND YOUTH

town. Members of the Cleveland Bar Associa-
tion offered their services to help the boys draft
a city charter and advise on legal matters. Clubs
such as the Kiwanis, Chamber of Commerce, and
Rotary invited the Boystown mayors to luncheons
where the youths were able to present their prob-
lems and ask for aid in the development of each
town. Others in the community are taking keen
interest. Mrs. Newton D. Baker, widow of the
former Cleveland mayor and Secretary of War,
has allowed the use of the name “Newton D.
Baker” for one of the Boystowns. Tools, lum-
ber, victrolas, three pianos, and furnishings have
been donated by individuals who for the first time
are taking an interest in the welfare of the boys

of their city.

The Program

At the instigation of the Mayor’s Committee, a
Boystown Mayors’ Association has been formed.
This Association outlined a
program of leisure time ac-
tivities to be carried on uni-
formly at each town. The
program consists of physical
education, social and crafts,
cultural activities, and ex—
tension of play facilities.
With the aid of WPA super-
visors and Recreation De-
partment personnel these
these four phases of the program are now being
developed.

Ball leagues, boxing, wrestling, swimming, and
ping-pong teams are organized under the physi-
cal education program headed by the Boystown
safety director. Teams from the different towns
compete and championship matches will be played
before all of the “citizens.” One-of the first reso-
lutions introduced in a Boystown council called
for the cooperation of the Cleveland Police De-
partment in removing cell blocks from the build-
ing to make room for a gymnasium. The Depart-
ment lost little time in obliging this governmental
body.

Under the social and crafts program, model
yacht and airplane building is being taught. Such
crafts as metalwork, woodwork, and leathercraft
are conducted under competent instructors. The
Boystown finance director is in charge and even
adult instructors must confer with him in setting
up the projects.

The cultural deveIOpment includes music, glee

"Although the Boystown movement has
not been in operation long enough to
determine whether there has been a de-
crease in juvenile delinquency. reports
would indicate that this is the case. Police
records show fewer calls for police
cruisers to break up gangs of boys loi-
tering on street corners in sections of the
city in which 'city halls' are located."

clubs, dramatic offerings, debates, lectures. and
plays suitable for radio productions. A monthly
newspaper has been started. Boys from each town
report and write sports, political and general news
events that take place in their communities. This
material is sent to the Recreation Division where
a trained newspaperman edits the news and ar-
ranges for printing. ‘Members. of the Boystowns
editorial staffs have been taken through the large
Cleveland newspaper plants. Boys writing for the
paper, through contact with a veteran newsman,
gain a good journalistic groundwork which may
well deveIOp into a profession for the more
talented.

A radio construction department has been or-
ganized. Boys are learning the Morse code and
it is hoped that money will be available soon to
purchase parts from which a short wave broad-
casting station may be built at each town. All
broadcasts will be on the some wave length, per-
mitting the boys to broadcast
sports events and debates,
and even transmit dramatic
productions from one town
to another.

Some of the Results

Results speak for them—
selves in the few months the
Boystown movement has been
under way in Cleveland. A
teacher in one of the public schools, in whose.
civics class one of the Boystown mayors is a pupil,
told a member of the committee, “It is remark-~
able how Jack has shown an increased interest in
this class since he was elected to the Boystown4
office. I believe this experience he gains enablesl
him really to appreciate the governmental prob-l
lems that we discuss in class.” ' 

A “citizen” of one Boystown had a chronic
weakness for playing hookey from school. School
authorities had not been able to convince him of
the necessity for regular attendance. The mayor
of his town learned about this disobedience, called
the boy before him and reprimanded him. The
Boystown police chief called on the boy’s parents
and successfully secured their cooperation in
keeping their son in school. For two months;
now, according to school authorities, the wayward
youngster has not missed a class.

Six members of the Cleveland Bar took timg
off from their regular duties to help the boys ifl

(Continued on page 475)

The Spirit of Joseph Lee Day

scene shown in this pic-

ture occurring 0n scores
of playgrounds in America.
The photograph of Joseph
Lee may not have been in!
the center, but in its place
was a leader telling the story
to groups of children such
as this. This leader told of Mr. Lee’s childhood and
youth, his‘loire of games and sports, his dedica-
tion of his life and future to the end that all chil-
dren everywhere might have a place to play. The
children heard of his long and faithful service to
the National Recreation Association; how he
helped to found it; how in twenty-five years he
never missed a meetingnof the Board of which he
was President. They learned of his simplicity and
his greatness, his love of play and his deep serious
purposes in life. They caught the impression of a
great man whom they could respect and love and
in some degree emulate.
On one Utica, New York, play-

IMAGINE, if you can, the

 

All over America last summer,
children paid tribute to the
memory of Joseph Lee in song
and story, in prose and poetry,

and, above all, in happy
play act

   
  

ground, a leader with imagi—
nation and a gift for teach-
ing told the story of Joseph
Lee and then asked the chil-
dren. to write poems about
him or to his memory. SO
many good ones were writ-
ten that it was decided to
print the best of them on a
long scroll and send them to the National Recrea-
tion Association. The scroll, made of plain green
paper, was carefully prepared, and the poems were
printed on it in bold letters in ink. The spirit of
the occasion and the depth of impression on the
children were expressed in these words:

IVItIes

Poetry Scroll
by the
Mary (Playground) Safety Patrols

\Ve the patrols of the Mary PlaygrOUnd
dedicate this Scroll to

JOSEPH LEE
Father of Our Playgrounds

. ¢4'ri :7

J‘
*- s a! 

Courtesy C ah'fornfa Commission, Treasure Island

441

442 THE SPIRIT OF JOSEPH LEE DAY

To celebrate Joseph Lee Day we
proudly present these poems and essays

Growth—by 5am Giglz'otti
Everything, if taken care of, will grow,
As a plant needs water, sunshine, care
80 it is with other things.
Playgrounds may easily be likened to a plant,
Only in this instance the plant was an idea,
An idea—even in Joseph Lee’s mind and heart.
For water—he used untiring effort,

For sunshine—he used everlasting patience,
For care—he used himself and his associates

Until finally his idea became rec0gnized.

No longer was he its only father.

Foster parents sprang up throughout the nation
Until the idea of Lee’s was no longer in infancy.
The playgrounds have grown,

And are continuing to grow,

As only their father Joseph Lee

Would wish them to grow.

Not Merely a Name—by Frank Costello

What does the name Joseph Lee mean to you?
To me it stands for greatness,

It teaches me the lesson of success by hard work.
For Joseph Lee met many obstacles;

But overcame them all,

His dream of playgrounds for children came true.

A Noble Monument—by Frances Krupa

Playgrounds today are living monuments

To a man who spent his life only that they might exist;
T o a man who loved children with his whole being;

To a man blessed with insight into the future world’s need
Especially for its children,

That man-—may we honor him—was Joseph Lee.

Thanks-by M arion Farrelli

To Joseph Lee we offer thanks,

Ever mindful of his devotion to children,

Of his ever persevering efforts in their behalf,
Until he reached his goal

Playgrounds for children.

What greater results could any playground
leader expect than that some children should sense
and understand the growth of the playground
movement, could realize that Joseph Lee was
more than a mere name, that the playgrounds
were monuments to him and his work and that
they should be thankful for his devotion to the

interests of little children “until he reached his
goal.”

The spirit of the Joseph Lee Day celebrations
was shown in the interest and hearty participation
in the preparation and carrying out of the pro-

gram. Mrs. Roosevelt in her column “My Day”
said,

“Last week on July 28, the recreational
authorities under the leadership of the Na-
tional Recreation Association celebrated the
second national Joseph Lee Day, in memory
of the father of the playground movement.
He devoted lifty years of his life and much
of his fortune to the cause of recreation for
young people, which is almost as important
as food, housing, medical care and. schooling.
Therefore the use of this day to call the at—
tention of the public to the recreation move-
ment and to keep Joseph Lee’s memory green
seems to me worth remembering.”

Governor Olson of California in a state procla-
mation said,

“Safe and happy play for children; recre-
ation and adventure for youth, and adequate
leisure time for adults-_—-all are of vital im-
portance to the vigor, vitality and welfare of
our citizens.

“It is therefore fitting and desirable that
we set aside a period to be observed as ‘Rec-
reation Week in California,’ and it is also
fitting and proper that during that period we
pay homage to the memory of Joseph Lee of
Boston, the ‘Father of Playgrounds’ who de—
voted much of his life to the development of
the playground and recreation movement in
the United States.”

Mayors in different parts of the country issued
proclamations calling for the observance of the
day and gave every assistance in making a suc-
cessful observance possible. ,

The press, as usual, gave excellent support tol
the program in heralding the approach of the day:
and in reporting its activities. Mrs. Roosevelt’s:
statement was widely syndicated. The close co-
operation of local papers with the leaders of the
recreation movement called for large commen-
dauon.

As one glances over the programs of the vari-
ous celebrations their joyous spirit seems to speak
of a glad and happy day—splay in memory of
Joseph Lee. Let your imagination play over these
events and you will see thousands of children
happy and free, and parents proud and glad toi
have a part in the day. You will see play leaders 
and directors who are conscious of leading whole ll
communities into better living relationships. Yogi'
will picture mothers’ and daughters’ teas with‘
short presentations of the history of Joseph Le?

THE SPIRIT OF JOSEPH LEE DAY 443

and the play movement; fathers’ and sons’
nights with games, dramatic skits and refresh—
ments ; doll shows and parades, pet parades; girls’
play day affairs; music—vocal and instrumental;
carnivals, the very names of which conjure up
happy memories; community nights; and—dear to

all boys’ hearts—rodeos. A day like that on a}

playground is a day to be remembered, and when
conducted with the historical background of
Joseph Lee’s life and the days of the early sand—
box gardens, the occasion gains significance indeed.

Two inter—city events that have been reported
should be noted for their widespread influence in
interpreting the importance of recreation as well
as observing the memory of Joseph Lee. In West—
chester County, New York, a thousand children
gathered from a dozen communities to celebrate
the day. Practically every activity used on the
playground of the county was demonstrated dur—
ing the day before the spectators who watched
from the great memorial stadium.

The celebration at the
Golden Gate EXposition in
Treasure Island gathered
children from the cities
around San Francisco Bay.
(The picture used on first
page was taken in this cele—
bration.) Not only the resi—
dents of these surrounding
Ecities saw the activities, but visitors from all parts
50f the country attended.

Mr. Charles W. Davis, Administrator of Rec—
rreation, California Recreation Building, Golden
gGate International Exposition, writes, “A great
ideal of interest was manifested on the part of the

l
t

newspapers throughout the West, because July 28
was officially designated as Joseph Lee Day on
ithe Island. Many of them inquired about the
background of Joseph Lee to run stories con-
:erning him and the tie—up with our program in
:he local papers. . . . One of the pictures taken by
:he press bureau in Treasure Island was sub-
Initted to practically all newspapers in California.”
‘ It is not known how many cities observed
loseph Lee Day for no special clipping service
vas retained. From scores of letters, clippings
1nd reports, it is obvious that the celebrations
vere scattered all over the country and that the
luality of programs was generally high. We
[Inow enough to feel sure that the observance of
’he day has left its imprint on the lives of thou—
ands of children and doubtless will deeply affect

l
l t
I

Readers of Recreation may wish to know
that copies of the December I937 issue
of the magazine. which was devoted to
the life of Joseph Lee and to tributes
to him by friends and associates. are
still available and may be secured from
the National Recreation Association.

the lives and service of scores of recreation
executives.

The spirit of the day was climaxed when Dr.
John H. Finley, who succeeded Joseph Lee as
President of the National Recreation Association,
left his vacation home in New Hampshire and
came to New York against doctor’s orders to
broadcast over N.B.C. at the close of the day’s
ceremonies. That act was characteristic of him
and of Joseph Lee, for the desire to honor Joseph
Lee was dominant in spite of health handicaps.

After reviewing the historical facts of Joseph
Lee’s life, Dr. Finley said, “In the book of the
prophet of Zechariah it was promised that a happy
time would come to the city, which is called the
City of Truth, and the outstanding reasons for
rejoicing were that old men and old women would
have their lives prolonged and that the streets
‘would be full of children playing.’ That was
written before the coming of the swift cars of our
times. Joseph Lee has been called a prophet, and
the word of his prophecy
which he had the joy to see
fulfilled in his day, was that
every child should have a
safe place in which to play.

“When he became Presi—
dent of the Playground As—
sociation, there were only
1,244 playgrounds. There
were in the year of his death nearly 10,000. In
Hying across the continent, I had most hope for
the future in seeing not only the churches and
the schools, but also the playgrounds. They are
together the best promise for the future. W ater—
100 was won on the playing fields of Eton—and
the battles for democracy are won on our fields
of play, as well as in our churches and school—
rooms—these places of joyous free life.

“There is a French word ‘joli’ which in its
original and highest use meant ‘full of life and
spirit.’ It came to have a less constructive defini—
tion which found a synonym in our word ‘jolly.’
tut if we were to coin a noun in our own speech
that had the higher significance, we should take
the name of our President, ‘Joe Lee.’ He was and
is the incarnation, the impersonation, of that full—
ness of life and spirit which is suggested by the
word recreation.

“Someone who knew him well has pictured him
as Greatheart in Pilgrim’s Progress. ‘And now
looking up, they (Greatheart and the little boy

(Continued on page 476)

Lighting for Night Tennis

HE GROWING interest in
I night athletic events

has led a number of
cities to provide lighting
facilities for tennis. Ten of the twelve cities in
the United States of between 300,000 and 500,000
population have -made available information on
this subject. Four of these cities—Portland, Jer—
sey City, New Orleans, and Washington, D. C.—
provide outdoor night tennis facilities for the
public. Seattle has plans drawn for two courts
and has an indoor court at present. Indianapolis,
Louisville, Minneapolis, and Rochester do not pro-
vide such facilities, nor does Newark, although
the Park Commission of Essex County in which
Newark is located maintains illuminated tennis
courts. Among the cities of the Pacific Northwest
of over 100,000 population, Portland now pro—
vides such facilities and Seattle has plans drawn.
Spokane and Tacoma have made no installations,
having dropped plans for two such courts on ad-
vice of neighboring Canadian city officials that
damp air is bad for rackets at night.

Information is also available for twelve other
cities that have public night tennis courts. These
include Binghamton, Denver, Houston, and New
York City; two Florida cities—Jacksonville and
Orlando; and six California cities—Beverly Hills,
Los Angeles, Oakland, Palo Alto, Pasadena, and
Santa “Monica.

The information received is tabulated in the
table which appears on the following page.

Types of Installation and Costs

Summarizing the information as to type of in-
stallation, materials used,
and equipment, it may be
said that two general types
of installation lay-out are
used. Four California
cities, Los Angeles, Bev-
erly Hills, Pasadena, and
Santa Monica, and Den-
ver, Colorado, suspend the
lights lengthwise. over the
center of the court. The
remainder space lamps
around the court or courts
in varying combinations.

444

Compiled by RUSSELL BARTHELL

Bureau of Municipal Research and Service
University of Oregon

The Bureau of Municipal Research and Service
of the University of Oregon has made a study
of the lighting of tennis courts for night
play in a number of cities. Information was
received directly from recreation officials in
all the cities except Birmingham. Jackson-
ville and Orlando' for which the National Rec-
reation Association supplied data. Through
the courtesy of the Bureau we are presenting
sections of the report. Anyone wishing the
complete report may secure a copy upon order
and remittance of twenty-tive cents to the Bu-
reau of Municipal Research and Service, Fenton
Hall. University of OregonI Eugene, Oregon.

Representative of this sec-
ond group, Palo Alto re—
ports that it has used sev-
eral arrangements in spac-

ing lighting standards and that the local tennis
players prefer one light Opposite each end of the
net and the other four at the corners of the court,
all being outside of the playing area. New Orleans
has eighteen courts that are grouped in series of
three, and each group is lighted with four 2.000-
watt lamps. However, their new installation now
being erected on fifteen adjoining courts provides
for separate illumination of each court with eight
1,000-watt lamps.

In cities that report total cost of installation
these costs range from $200 to $600 per court.
(See column 3 of table.) Three cities report only
equipment costs. Poles are a major item of cost
which varies considerably not only with the type
of pole used but also with the method of running
wires and the type of other equipment. A num«
ber of cities report that labor has been furnished
by the Works Progress Administration.

Lamps used most commonly are 1,000 and 1,500
watts, although Los Angeles uses 2,500-watt
lamps on some of its installations. Maximum

wattage per court varies from 3,000 to 9,000.

Fees and Charges

Amount. Eleven of the seventeen cities listed
in the table charge for night tennis. Jersey City
and Portland make no charge, Seattle is unde-
cided, and no information is available on Birming-j
ham and Orlando. New York City requires a $3

fee for a season permit to play on any of the city
courts and no additional

fee is charged for night
courts. The remainder
charge a flat rate regard-
less of whether singles 01‘
doubles are played. This
varies from Pasadena’s fee
of 25 cents for forty min-
utes to 75 cents per hour
in \Vashington, D. C. The
most frequent rate is 25
cents per half—hour. Bev-y
erly Hills, Houston, New
Orleans, and Washington

 

LIGHTING FOR NIGHT TENNIS 445
NIGHT TENNIS COURTS IN FIFTEEN AMERICAN CITIES
1930 No. Cost Max. FEES
Popu- of per w. per Method of Closing Length of
Cm lation Cts. Ct. Ct. Day Night Collection Time Season
Beverly Hills * . . . . . 17,429 13 $477 7,000 15¢ a person 60¢ per h. Attendant 11 :00 12 Mo.
Birmingham . . . . . . . . 259,678 2 250 3,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Denver * . . . . . . . . . . . 287,861 41' 500 5,000 No 25¢ per % hr Meter 11 :00 6 Mo.

Houston . . . . . . . . . . . 292,352 10 200 6,000 Yes 50¢ per h Attendant 10 :30 12 Mo.

Jacksonville . . . . . . . . 129,549 3 4,000 . . . . . . . . 40¢ per h . . . . . . . . 12 MO.

Jersey City . . . . . . . . 316,715 5 400 6,000 No No No 10:00 12 Mo.

Los Angeles * . . . . . . 1,238,048 39 400 8,000 No 25¢ per V2 hr. Meter 11 :00 12 Mo.

New Orleans . . . . . . . 458,702 33 666** 8,000 25¢ per h. 50¢ per h. Attendant 011.01%? 12 Mo.

New York . . . . . . . . .6,930,446 10 6,000 $3 season Included in Attendant Depends 6 Mo.

Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . 284,063 10 500 9,000 p610?“ $363330: Meter (110 3506 12 Mo.

Orlando . . . . . . . . . . . . 27,330 5 _ 10012 8,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Palo Alto . . . . . . . . . . 13,652 6 600 9,000 No 25¢ per % hr. Meter 11 :00 12 Mo.

Pasadena * . . . . . . . . . 76,086 11 300 6,000 N 0 25¢ per 40 m. Meter 10 :30 12 Mo.

Portland . . . . . . . . . . . 301,815 19 4,000 No No No 10 or 11 6 Mo.
Santa Monica * .. . . . 37,146 5 1501; 7,500 No 25¢ per IA hr. Meter 10:00 12 Mo.
Seattle . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365,583 2 338 9,000 No ? ? 10:00 6 Mo.
Washington, D. C.. . 486,809 10 230 3,000 40¢ per h. 75¢ per h. Attendant 11 :00 6 Mo.

*Installation suspended lengthwise over center of court.
’rIncIudes metered courts only.

** Estimate for equipment only, based on 15 court battery in construction.

iEstimate for equipment cost only.

 

lalso charge for day use, and Oakland has five
fcourts for which there is a daytime reservation
Icharge.

Method of Collection. Five California cities and
Denver, Colorado, use an automatic prepayment
time meter. Collection of fees by coin meters is
reported by several cities to be the most practical
procedure. Denver officials report that “we find
the use of meters meets with the approval of the
players both as to rate for playing and type of
equipment and construction of our courts.” It
appears that not all of the coin meters have proved
satisfactory, but there is at least one satisfactory
meter on the market, according to reports.

The cities listed in the table that use attendants
for fee collections also make a charge for day
play; thus similar collection methods have been
xtended to night courts. In Washington, tickets
re issued and fees collected at a booth located at
he courts and tickets may be obtained two weeks

 

- .1” pm“

in advance. Houston has an attendant on duty
from 6 A. M. to 10:30 P. M. No meters are used
and they have been considered impractical for
Houston. New Orleans groups its night courts
together at the city park and tickets are issued at
the tennis club house which is next to the courts.
This method is reported to be practical and eco-
nomical. The city is now providing approximately
one hundred lockers for men and women players,
which will be rented at a nominal fee. Beverly
Hills collects fees through a regularly employed
attendant, who is paid 60 cents per hour. The at-
tendant also inspects players for proper dress.
Nine of the courts are on a reservation basis,
which is reported to add to their popularity.

Revenues and Costs. In most instances revenues
approximate maintenance costs including lamp re-
newals. Cost of electric power is a major operat-
ing expense and varies according to local rates
and load factors. Los Angeles considers its night

446 LIGHTING FOR NIGHT TENNIS

 

A lighted tennis court which was in operation
more Jthan ten years ago in a mid-western ci’ry

courts to be wholly self—
supporting, including in—
vestment retirement. The length of the tennis
season would have a definite relationship to iixed
charges, such as installation costs, but its relation
to maintenance costs would be less pronounced.
The total amount of revenue would be based on
participation. This is discussed in more detail in
the last section of this report. Comments by rec-
reation oflicials on the relationship of revenues
to costs are summarized as follows:

Beverly Hills reports that on nine reservation
courts there was a total 1938 revenue from night

and day play of $11,000, with a total maintenance
cost of $7,000.

Denver reports that 1938 revenue of $372.50
took care of maintenance costs.

Houston estimates that the revenue from night
play in 1938 was in excess of maintenance costs.

Jacksonville figures electric current costs at ap-
proximately 50 per cent of income.

Los Angeles collected approximately $9,000
from night tennis in 1938. About 50 per cent of

maintenance costs was for
electric power, leaving an
ample sum for maintenance and investment re-
tirement.

Oakland’s night courts brought in $1,527.50 in
1938 and cost a total of $1,645.33, which repre- "
sents $645.33 for electricity and about $1,000 for
other maintenance, including lamp replacement,_
repairs to electrical equipment, and servicing.

Palo Alto received $379 in revenue for 1938.
Costs for electric current are estimated at $210,
leaving $169 to cover maintenance cost plus in-
terest on the investment. Ten dollars per year per
court is estimated for electrical upkeep.

Santa Monica’s five night courts were placed on.
a fee basis April 26, 1938, and produced $495.25,
in revenue by December 31. Revenues are con?
sidered ample to take care of all costs including
lamp renewals.

Washington, D. C., received $1,658.25 in 'rev-
enue during 1938 from night tennis and attend:
ants employed --during night hours were paid

$628.65.

LIGHTING FOR NIGHT TENNIS '447

Advisabilify and Acceptability. Recreation of-
ncials have commented as follows on the charging
of fees for tennis facilities:

Beverly Hills: “We have found that a fee is
acceptable, and agreeable to all concerned. Espe-
cially when reservations are available. The player
seems to enjoy the pride of possession of a court
after a small fee has been paid. Courts so operated
amount almost to a club membership situation,
and an atmosphere is created around the courts of
a high social order. (Certain courts are reserved
for public school students after school hours for
free play; otherwise children are charged 5 cents
per person per hour.) It appears that some
method should be employed on public courts,
whereby the ‘tennis hound,’ the fellow who likes
to play four, five or six hours a day, should be
kept moving along. Cliques of excellent players
develop and rotate courts among themselves, pre-
venting the person who would like to play now
and then from getting much benefit from public
courts. An attendant should be in charge of ten-
nis courts and a small fee should be charged in
order to pay salaries and overhead.”

Denver: “We find the use of meters meets
with the approval of the players both as to rate
for playing and type of ecjuipment and construc-
tion of our courts.”

Houston: “The tennis public is in favor of
charges for night and day tennis for it means bet-
ter conditioned courts. I think in night tennis the
public easily will see the extra costs and will be
most willing to help defray expenses.”

Indianapolis: “We have never at any time
charged a fee for the use of our courts. The local
tennis playing public being accustomed to free
play would not, in my opinion, agree to a fee even
though we provide illuminated courts.”

Los Angeles: “The lighting of tennis courts
was in response to the demand of the tennis play-
ing public for longer playing hours, the theory
being that if existing courts can be put to greater
use to satisfy the players, additional courts need
lnot be built. It also follows that spreading out
the demand through the evening hours of the
week lessens the play over a week end, evenings
and week ends being the time when the majority
of the adults are at leisure.”

' The public in general expects to pay for spe-
icialized services, particularly where such services
jare exclusively set aside for an individual or a
pgroup. Night lighted metered courts are reported

I

to be generally acceptable in Los Angeles and
there is a constant demand for their installation.

New Orleans: “We find no objection from
tennis players in paying the nominal fee we
charge. In a measure it gives the players a sense
of responsibility and when the fixed charge is so
much per hour they know they must vacate the
courts when their time is up. If there were no
charges we believe there would be endless argu-
ments and little control of the players, but as it is
now, they know that no favoritism is exercised,
that first call for a court is first served, regard-
less of who it is.”

New York City: “If we were to illuminate
other tennis areas where there is a large demand
for night play, a fee would be charged which I
am sure would be acceptable to the tennis playing
pubhcf’

Oakland: “By equipping tennis courts for

night play, a possible three additional hours is
added to the playing period, at a small additional
cost. The players seem glad to pay for the addi-
tional service.”
, Palo Alto: “There should be no hesitancy in
charging a fee for use of lighted tennis courts
that are kept up in good shape. The initial cost
for a first class lighting installation is a consider-
able amount. Reasonable people cannot but realize
this and when a charge is made for its use (if
only a nominal one) they better appreciate the
service.”

Santa Monica: “Prior to April 26, 1938 we had
been furnishing lights free from dark until 10:00
.P. M. and we found that the courts were being
held almost every night by youngsters who could
do their playing during the day time. This kept
the regular tennis enthusiasts, who worked all day,
from night play. These folks welcomed the
meters, in as much as it kept the younger people
off the courts at night as they did not have the
necessary quarters (25¢). It also saves the city
quite a large light bill each month.”

Washington, D. C.: “The cost of lighting and
maintaining these courts in good condition with-
out expense to the taxpayer makes it necessary to
charge a fee for their use. The making of such a
charge was readily accepted by the tennis playing
public in \Vashington.”

Length of Season, Closing Hours

In all of the southern cities listed night tennis
is played the year round. The play is heavier dur—

(Continued on page 476)

 

An Arts and Crafts Fair

are clustered many nationality groups, each

with rich traditions, culture, and handicraft
skills. Knowing that these heritages might vanish
through lack of appreciation and protection, the
Oglebay Park Institute determined to hold an
Arts and Crafts Fair which would encourage the
production of contemporary handicrafts using in-
digenous materials and design. This handicraft
fair, representing the work of practicing crafts-
men in the Wheeling area, was held last fall at
Oglebay Park. Local crafts groups, youth or-
ganizations, educational institutions, individual
craftsmen, and many cultural and nationality
groups assisted in the arrangements, and the dis-
plays showed a diversity of artistic and creative
ability.

Because of the nature of the exhibit, planning
the fair was the biggest problem. Craftsmen had
to work for months in order to contribute a fin—
ished example of their skill for the fair. Long
before the opening date, the idea was presented
at a meeting of the Oglebay Museum Association,
an organization of volunteers interested in the
museum phase of the Oglebay Institute program.
Developments such as the home craft movement
in New Hampshire were outlined and preliminary

448

I N THE REGION around Wheeling, West Virginia,

Miners of West Virginia con-
structing the wooden parts
of looms on which their wives
weave scarfs. luncheon sets,
pursesl neclctiesl and many
other useful and ornamental
articles which can be placed
on the market for sale.

groundwork started on plans for
exhibiting home crafts products
and folk arts.

Following this meeting, Her-
bert  Sanborn, Institute staff
member in charge of arts and
crafts, and Mrs. Robert M.
Browne, Jr., chairman of the crafts committee of
the Museum Association, called upon presidents
of crafts clubs, individual craftsmen, and leaders
of foreign groups. Contacts with craft groups
were easy to establish as the majority of them
were affiliated with the Institute. They uncov-
ered a startling variety of foreign cultural groups
who had migrated into the district in the latter
part of the nineteenth century because of the in- J,
dustrialization of the steel mills and the need for ‘
labor in the coal fields as well as in the mills. J
Syrians, Ukrainians, Bohemians,‘ Croatians,
Greeks, Czechoslovakians and other nationality
groups signified their willingness to participate in
the fair.

After obtaining pledges of cooperation from '
national groups and crafts people, the scope of
the exhibit was established. It was to be three-
fold: nationality handicrafts, assembled with the
cooperation of nationality groups and individuals
with nationality background in the Wheeling area;
old time crafts, including coverlets, weaving,
hand needlework, glass, wooden implements, cos-
tumes, and folk arts; and contemporary crafts of
the region, diSplaying pottery, sculpture, figurines,
wood carving, metal work, weaving, and needle-
WOrk.

'were sent to the participat-

AN ARTS AND CRAFTS FAIR .

The large carriage barn at
the park, over 12 5 years old,
was partitioned into booths
with the aid of the WPA
Museum Extension Project.
The floor plan was drawn,
and booths marked and as-
signed. Copies of the plans

hibitions.

ing organizations, and the

arrangement of the exhibits was left to the in-
genuity of the exhibitors. Each booth, however,
was to be arranged to contribute to the general
theme and educational purpose in building a wide
interest in appreciation of handicraft. Contacts
thrOUgh periodic visits and meetings with exhibi-
tors were established to check on the progress of
their plans. SUggestions of the park representa-
tives in arrangement, and their aid in the labelling
of objects, kept uniformity.

The fair opened with exhibits from the Oglebay
Arts and Crafts League, the Boy and Girl Scouts,
Ohio County Museum Extension Project WPA,
Ohio Valley Camera Club, West Liberty State
Teachers’ College, department stores, the needle-
work department of the Women’s Exchange,
Ohio Valley Home Craft Club, and the Art Club
of Wheeling.

The section displaying the crafts of nationality
groups was rich in design and fine workmanship.
It was composed of crafts-
manship brought from the
homelands as well as articles
made in Amer-
ica. The na-
tionality crafts-
men participat-
ing were fam—
ous as elabor-
ate whittlers—
their displays
ran from wood-
en chains to a
“Li feof Christ”
with 250 fig-
ures —— wood
carvers, potters,
jewelers, glass
blowers, weav-
ers, rug mak-
ers, and needle-
workers.

Another sec-

Some of the outstanding special events
at Oglebay Park have included an Eas-
ter Sunrise service, a high school music
festival. an Arbor Day celebration. a
hobby tairl a Panhandle autumn festival
and regional Four-H Club tairl tennis
tournaments. swimming meets and ex—
theatricals.
programs from the park. and a Tri-
State Farm and Home program.

amateur

A woman from Czechoslovakia weaves on a
loom which has been built by her husband an,

 

449

tion showed processes from
raw material to the finished
article: wool, vegetable' dye
materials, basket fibers, pine
needles, leather, cotton, linen,
and pottery. Calling attention
to the history, early proces-
ses, and present day use, the
wool exhibit was of special
significance. During the nine-
teenth century the panhandle region of West Vir-
ginia and adjacent territory in Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania had the reputation of being the finest wool
producing section in the country. The story of
wool attracted so much attention that part of the
display remains in the Mansion Museum at the
park as a permanent exhibit.

The booths were staffed with guides who ex—
plained nationality customs and use of tools. They
also took charge of the sale of pastries and home-
made articles. The exhibits, though colorful and
carefully labelled, became much more effective
through explanation, personal stories, and demon-
stration by craftsmen. There were demonstrations
of spinning, weaving, glass blowing, knitting, and
basket making.

Four nationality nights presented folklore
through music, dancing, narration, and drama.
The Quadrangle, formed by the stalls at the rear
of the carriage barn, became a natural informal
theater with i an entrance
through the exhibition area.
The Greek, Croatian, Syri-
Bohemian,
and Ukrainian
groups were
represented.
Most of the
members of
these units had
participated
during the past
ten years in
various festi-
vals of nations,
folk festivals,
and nationality
picnics at Ogle-
bay Park and
were eager to
participatein
the nationality
nights. The

radio

450 AN ARTS AND CRAFTS FAIR

Greek and Croatian group presented dances from
Greek mythology, including the Dance of the
Muses, of Apollo, and of the Three Graces. The
Syria-Lebanon nationality night featured a dra-
matic presentation, and the Bohemians demon-
strated native folk dances.

Four objectives have been accomplished by the
correlation of the crafts for the inspection of the
general public. First, the public has a more com-
plete conception of the folk arts of the valley.
Second, despite the industrialization of the area,
the exhibit shows that interest in fine handwork
has not died out. Third, the fair has developed a
keener appreciation of crafts by arousing in visit-
ors a desire to own the articles and by making
them available for purchase. Purchasing, of
course, has given the craftsman an added incen-
tive to work. Fourth, through bringing together
the achievements of craftsmen, the work of the
individual craftsman improves, because he is able
to compare his work with others, perhaps discov-
ering new methods by observation of the work of
others. In line with the objective of encouraging
contemporary handicrafts, the skilled work of
foreign groups of the region, together with craft
work in the early tradition, give a rich and varied
background for the in3piration of the contem-
porary craftsman.

Camps at Oglebay Park

Arts and crafts comprise only one of the many
activities recreational and educational in scope
which are conducted at Oglebay Park. Last sum-
mer the Park was host to three camps ——the
Caddy Camp, the Ohio County 4-H Camp, and
the Ohio Valley High School Music Camp.

The Caddy Camp made it possible for some fifty
boys who partially earned their way by caddying
to enjoy camp eXperience. In order to assure the
permanence of the camp, the Golf Club sponsored
a dance at Oglebay, the proceeds of which cover
some of the camp expenses. The boys were quar-
tered in one of the old CCC camp barracks and
they followed a regular routine. Divided into
squads, they alternated in their work as caddies,
weeded greens, played, and learned handicraft.

The Four-H campers, 120 boys and girls be-
tween 13 and 20 years of age, enjoyed a week at
the Park under the supervision of twenty leaders.
Leather work, membership in their camp orches-
tra, swimming, rope making, folk dancing, and

outdoor games occupied the time of the Four-H
campers.

The directors for this annual camp are em-
ployed by the extension division of the West Vir-
ginia University, and the members of the county
Farm Women’s Clubs donate time to prepare
meals for the youngsters.

A third camp at Oglebay Park, the Ohio Val-
ley High School Music Camp, was sponsored by
the Ohio Valley Music Educators’ Association.
Vocal and instrumental sessions were planned for
the young people who attended the camp. The
Ohio Valley Music Camp Chorus, composed of
thirty-five boys and girls at the vocal session, pre-
sented programs at the Oglebay Park outdoor
stage preceding the regular Sunday vesper ser-
vices. About fifty students enrolled for the in-
strumental session. '

Music is a part of the regular program at the
park. Among the features this summer was a
rhythmic dance recital together with a concert by
the Ohio Valley A Cappella Chorus. The VVheel-
ing Symphony Society Orchestra presented regu-
lar Thursday evening concerts in the Oglebay
Amphitheater. Friends of Music, the organiza-

tion which sponsors the orchestra, supplied out-

standing soloists for summer recitals.

Sigmund Spaeth, of radio “Tune Detective”
fame, was master of ceremonies at the second an-
nual Barber Shop Quartet Contest. Entries were
restricted to non-professional male quartets, resi-
dent or employed in Ohio Valley. Although any
instrument could be used to obtain pitch, the quar-
tets rendered their songs unaccompanied. Each
quartet had to be named and could wear costumes,
provided all four members dressed alike. Awards
were given after each barber shop quartet sang
two selections, one from any source and the other
one of the old time songs on the list made out by ~
a staff member of Oglebay Institute. I

The Oglebay Institute Activities Bulletin for
1938, recently released in printed form, contains
a summary of participation in arts, crafts and ex-
hibits, camps, conservation, music, rural activi-
ties, nature study and physical education. The
report shows to what extent the arts, crafts, and
exhibits program has broadened and dove-tailed
into many worthwhile community activities. It
also reveals that this program embodies far more
than occasional exhibits of beautiful or interest-
ing objects, and that it helps promote an under-
standing and appreciation of local and regional
history through visual aids. Further, it ties to-
gether the efforts of local artists and craftsmen.

The Growth ot Community Centers on Cape Cod

Cape Cod is a storied land. The beginnings ot New

England are to be traced here.

And here there is

rich soil tor the growth ot year-round recreation.

ARNSTABLE COUNTvu—and
B that means all of Cape Cod

-——-is essentially no different
from other American communi-
ties. Its commercial life is mainly concerned with
vacationers who come to the Cape during the
summer. But its native population is typical, and
faces the same problems of education, budgets,
taxes and depressions that trouble us all. To the
thousands of visitors who come to the Cape for
the summer season, it may have little reality as a
year-round colony. But our peninsula (it has
really been an island since the Canal was dug
laterally across its base) is very much alive from
November to May.

Contrary to widespread belief, Cape Cod is not
one isolated New England coastal village, but a
tongue of land that stretches some seventy miles
into the Atlantic Ocean southeast of the port of
Boston. In width, the Cape varies from twenty to
one mile at the narrowest part. The county seat
is at Barnstable, which this year celebrates its
three hundredth anniversary. In addition to the
county seat there are 142 other towns and vil-
llages grOUped around the main centers of popula-
ftion: Hyannis,’ the largest; Provincetown, of art
ifame; and Falmouth-Woods Hole, the jumping-
off place for Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard
llslands. Cape Cod is much larger in area than is
lgenerally supposed, and any problem concerning
it is correspondingly multiplied in scope.

The major part of the Cape’s revenue is from
.its summer visitors. Aside from this, it is an
Iagricultural community specializing in cranberries.
Metropolitan markets draw
much of their fish from the
Cape, and a good grade of
moulding sand is shipped.
'But these economic consid-
lerations do not alter our
ibasic status as a reasonably
.normal group of people. p|e,
.The problem of native rec-

 

By JOHN BRADLEY

Recreational Supervisorl WPA
Cape Cod. Massachusetts

Have you ever thought of what happens
at Cape Cod during the winter months?
Mr. Bradley assures us that the fact the
Cape is a vacation resort does not pre-
vent it from having problems of bud-
gets and taxes. and of recreation for
the resident population of 36.000 peo-
us an interesting

story of Cape Cod from November to May.

And he tells

reation is as important here as
elsewhere in spite of the fact that
our business is concerned-with
recreation. What has the native
element of Cape Code done about it?

We must bear in mind that Cape Cod is still a
rural community. None of its towns, busy as
they are, can in any sense of the word be called
metropolitan; they are simply clearing houses for
the vast majority who live in the surrounding
country. Here, as in all rural districts, life has
undergone an important change in the last cen-
tury. The industrial revolution has done its work
(both literally and Iiguratively) as efliciently on
Cape Cod as anywhere. More work is being done
in a great deal less time, and at the expense of *
intellect rather than of brawn. Desirable as this
may be, there is yet an important discrepancy.

' Man has succeeded in speeding up many proc-

esses, even organic ones. But he has not increased
the speed of the earth’s rotation, so that there are
still twenty-four hours in a day. Play to fill Iei-
sure hours was once a luxury. Now it is a neces-
sity because leisure is no longer the sole property
of the rich.

In this analysis we are not pioneers. The cause
which underlies the trend toward organized rec-
reation has long been recognized. But with ref-
erence to Cape Cod as a specific locality the cause
has had to be restated, since only the well-in-
formed are aware that Cape Cod is in better-than-
average social condition. The natural result
should be better-than-average progress. We think
that we have responded well in proportion to the
need.

What We have already
done is the result of an ex-
periment at Cotuit, a vil-
lage with a year-round pop-
ulation of about 800. Now
this may not, beside the
larger and more central
towns, seem the place to

451

452

 

look for such beginnings. It is by no means the
largest town on the Cape. Nevertheless, the im-
petus that has since caused five other towns to
establish recreation centers came from this place.
The work began in 1935. In a none-too-ade-
quate attic of the grammar school (enrollment
75), interested townspeOple managed to install
two tables for table-tennis, space for cowboy
hockey, a thirty foot skiball bowling alley, shuffle—
board, pool table and two checker tables. There
was also space for a boxing ring and wrestling
mat, medicine ball, punching bag, and table cro-
quet. All this in the cramped, poorly lighted and
ventilated (and for the most part unheated) attic.
Mere aggregations of equipment do not make a
dynamic recreation program, but they are usually
the nucleus around which such programs grow.
Recreation centers are not new ideas of course.
But it is surprising how slowly the need for them
is recognized to the point of action. There is a
certain amount of progressive thought in every
section on every subject. But as an excellent ex-
ample of the gap between thought and fact you

Photo by Leslie Love, M'odel Yacht Club, Essex County, N. I.

THE GROWTH OF COMMUNITY CENTERS ON CAPE COD

Boats invariably
come to mind in
thinking of Cape
Cod. But model

"railroading" is
a popular recre-
ational activity
at the community
centers through-
out the winter.

will recall that it
has taken some
six thousand
years even to be-
gin to approach
education from
a n o b  e c t i v e
point of view.
In the field of
recreation we
have an unex-
pected conflict

gains that edu-

with the very ,‘

cation has made; .

and this conflict seems paradoxical until it is un-
derstood. Taxpayers vote down recreation appro-

priations on the ground that equipment has al— j
ready been furnished to the schools, and that ‘

therefore it is duplication of school responsibility
to provide further means and equipment for
recreation.

Nothing could be further from the truth. The
schools cannot possibly assume the whole burden
of young peoples’ leisure, and they should not be
expected to assume it. Including extracurricular
activities of all kinds, children spend a maximum

of forty hours a week in school, sleep another .

sixty hours, and still have ninety-eight hours left
over. Very few homes, even in rural communi-
ties, have work enough to keep a child busy for-
those ninety-eight hours. Many have no work at
all. But this is an example of a simple sum in
arithmetic that taxpayers do not trouble to do.
There is time left over that schools do not and
cannot fill, but nothing is done. With their eyes
on mounting school budgets, taxpayers are reluc-

tant to appropriate money for recreation. The

l.

l

THE GROWTH OF COMMUNITY CENTERS ON CAPE COD 453

real paradox lies in the fact that these same peo—
ple do go on paying the bill for juvenile crime.

This reaction against our ideal is probably not
restricted to our community alone. But where
such situations do exist, recreation workers may
be interested in seeing how we have tried to meet
the reaction.

First of all, we have made an attempt to give
‘credit where it is due, and withhold it where it is
not. When people protest that recreation is largely
a school problem, we point out the facts which
prevent this from being possible. Again, people
must be made to understand that their own lack
of recreational (and of course educational) fa-
cilities in their youth is no valid excuse for deny-
ing such facilities to their children. It is not true
that if one generation can get along without a
thing, another can do the same. Such people have
to be carefully shown that the same conditions,
which made it easy for them to go without, no
longer exist.

These two instances of approach to the reac-
tionary type of mind should be sufficient to de-
scribe our tactics. Recreation will never become
a part of society by talking alone, any more than
equipment will make a program. What more
specific and ma-
terial moves have
3 we made in our
l work?

Doing Some-
thing About It

C o m m u n i t y
cer ters have been
established in six
C a p e to w n s :
C o t u i t, F a l-
mouth, Province-
town , Hyannis,

: Next in popular-
ity to games in
the program are
arts and crafts.
And this activity
whole families en-
iOy together as
this Hyannis
‘group testifies.

l

| a

Sandwich and Osterville. In order that the adult
public should know and share what we are doing,
they have been encouraged to take actual parts in
the establishment and government of their centers.
Thus have lay committees been set up who man-
age the affairs of the center, handle its hnances,
promote its interests. They stand in lieu of actual
municipal departments which we hope will in the
future be established by law.

Aside from the tangible advantages of the lay
committee, there is an equally important reason
for encouraging them to cooperate. Their very
existence emphasises the fact that recreation, like
education, is a community obligation and not just
another W'PA project. While we have often
managed to provide equipment and in some cases
rent space, the payroll is an item that only a reg-
ular municipal appropriation could meet. On the
other hand, the lay council gives the project an
air of permanence.

Another way in which we on Cape Cod have
sought to overcome opposition (and what is worse,
pure apathy) is in the type and purpose of our
various activities. The finest equipment in the
world will not make our centers the going con-
cerns that they must be to survive. Games them-

 

I

454 THE GROWTH OF COMMUNITY CENTERS ON CAPE COD

selves will not keep children off the streets. Adults
can adapt themselves to much monotony and re-
pression, but children dehnitely revolt against it.
And they are right, for their impulsiveness makes
us work harder for better recreation.

Stressing Dynamic Activity

The best results are obtained in recreation
when dynamic activity is stressed. Our figures
show that games have been the most popular of
all activities since we began our work, but that is
probably because we have in the past had little
else to offer. Next in the list, with very satis-
factory participation figures, stands arts and
crafts. Was this simply because the children liked
to do and make those particular things? We did
not think so. It seemed more reasonable to sup-
pose that arts and crafts were but media to ex-
press the same creative desire. We thought of
what we ourselves liked to do when we were young
—things which we were prevented from doing be-
cause of lack of equipment or help. Arts and
crafts, as important as they are, covered only a
small part of the list we compiled. And from this
grew the idea of a dynamic program that would,
by the sheer number of different activities, ap-
peal to every type of boy and girl.

Most boys like to play with trains, but soon tire
of them. It might seem that this is the inevitable
outgrowth of childish things were it not for the
fact that grown men play with trains in a highly
organized way. Just because the men who belong
to model railroad clubs do things in the accepted
manner of real roads does not obscure the fact
that they are gratifying the same creative urge as
the child playing with his first toy locomotive.
Children tire of their trains because their facilities
are limited. Few have enough space or money to
maintain elaborate sets. After the train has gone
backward and forward around the track for a
month or two, the novelty is gone, and the train
is neglected.

But suppose ten or twenty of these young rail-
roaders have space enough to pool their equip-
ment and lay out a really big system. Suppose,
further, that instead of the usual haphazard
methods used by children, there are real railroad
men—engineers or brakemen or conductors—to
help and to show how a railroad is really run.
Railroads, in their campaign to combat competi—
tion by other carriers, are only too willing to make
children railroad conscious. Each youngster is to
the wideawake railroad man a potential customer.

They have in many sections of the country been
prevailed upon to show young pe0ple “the works,”
and children have been in roundhouses, yards.
power plants, switchtowers and dispatchers’ of-
fices where twenty years ago they would have
been unwelcome.

The logical clearing-house for such activity is the
community center. Officials of our centers ap-
proach the proper authorities and arrange details. -
There is ample Hoor space for the model railroads.
Instructors entice enginemen and other railroad
employees to lend a hand. Soon the young
pioneers are talking in railroad slang and running
trains just as the railroads do.

We think that all this is very important, for it
does not apply as a method only to railroads, but
to a great many things that children like to do and
see. There is no air of the schoolroom, although
the youngsters are learning. (Listen to their talk
and you will be convinced of that!)

Under the present organization, model railroad-
ing is a part of a much larger group which we call
our Scientific Club. This is divided into appro-
priate age groups, which are in turn divided into
activity groups. Model airplanes are built, and
trips to“ the airport made. At Woods Hole the
Government maintains a marine biological labora-
tory which contains one of the most complete col-
lections of marine life in the country. A visit to
this laboratory may be combined with either a
hike or a bicycle trip in which both members of
the scientihc club and others may participate. At
the center shops we make telegraph sets, teach the
International Morse Code, do work on radio sets,
and eventually hope to own and operate our own
short wave amateur transmitter.

The great thing about this type of activity is 1
that it is practically limitless. One thing sug- 'i
gests another, and the child’s horizon broadens {
from the simple to the more technical. We think .
it represents a type of activity that will make the
recreation program a success. For it is chiefly by i
the value of activities that we win or lose in our II
effort to sell the recreation idea to the public so I
that they will finance it as generously as it de- ‘
serve's. Children who are interested in their cen-
ter and its progress can put tremendous pressure
on their parents, the taxpayers. How many par-
ents would oppose a plan that has actually (and
not theoretically) kept their children off the
streets? One that was at the same time teaching
valuable lessons? Theoretical programs fail be-

(Continued on page 476)

     
 

I
f

Nursery

Grows Up

PRE-SCHOOL nurs-
A ery in a recrea—

tion center? A
rarity in many cities,
it was an innovation
without precedent in
Cleveland. But here
was a neighborhood with a
great need for such a proj-
ect, and there was a recre-
ation center with available
space. Through the efforts
of two staff members who
had an urge to make the space fit the need, a fine
nursery grew up. ,

Neither the superintendent of the center nor
the staff supervisor had had much experience
with nurseries, so they first outlined a campaign.
Printed material was collected and read; other
pre-school groups, play schools and even day
Ilnurseries were visited. They gleaned valuable in—
,formation as they progressed on this tour. They
ifound a nursery specialist whose services were
available through the Child Health Association, a
lCommunity Fund agency. A city-sponsored
lWPA toy project could and would furnish toys
for the undertaking. In addition, they learned
that the Cleveland Foundation had partially or
completely supported other nurseries in town.

With all this information buzzing in their heads,
zand more determined than ever to have a nursery,
{the two staE members ended the tour at the Sal-
vation Army Store to see what equipment might
ibe purchased there to outfit a nursery. A victrola
in fine condition, selling for $1.50 and complete
‘with twenty-five records, was too great a bargain
l

 

to pass up. The nursery’s first piece of equipment
was purchased without hesitation.

Chapter two began with a visit to the nursery
ijspecialist. She wasn’t enthusiastic when the two
lstaff members admitted that they had no trained
leadership and no money. They rashly promised

 

By MARGARET E. MULAC

SupervisorI Division of Recreation

Department of Parks and Public Property
Cleveland. Ohio

It took lots of hard
work and just as much

patiencel but it was

well worth the effort
when a real community
institution of which
everyone was proud
wasthe happy outcome.

not to have a nursery
if they couldn’t meet
all the standards, and
with that promise the
specialist agreed to
look into the situation.

The next day the
three met at the center. The
specialist was pleased with
the surroundings. The walls
needed plaster in a few
spots and a coat of paint,
but the room was large and
well lighted with eight double windows facing
north and east, and there was a wooden floor.
Steam heat assured proper temperature during
the winter. The building, which served as a pub-
lic bathhouse was scrupulously clean, and toilet
facilities were conveniently located. There were
several rooms near by where small groups could
be taken for special activities. What was most
important, the room could be set aside for nursery
use only.

With the facilities approved, the problem of
furnishings was tackled next. WPA craftsmen
made the tables and stools to specifications; the
W PA toy project furnished doll house furniture,
toys, blocks and vehicles. A women’s organization
provided the curtains.

It was the question of physical examinations
and doctor service that nearly ended the project
before it began. The Commissioner of Health
was approached and asked that a period of ex-
aminations be set aside in a nearby dispensary.
The reply was that the clinic already had more
than it could handle. Then, when the interview
seemed to be coming to a futile end, the Commis-
sioner said: “If Dr. Blank in the Child Hygiene
Division can give you any help, it’s all right
with me.”

They enlisted the aid of a sympathetic doctor-
psychiatrist and child specialist and a nurse, who

AF!"

456 A NURSERY GROWS UP

were assigned to the center for a special clinic
one morning a week. But there was a difficulty.
The doctor and nurse would need a room equipped
in the proper manner, which meant scales with
a measuring rod. a cupboard for supplies, tables
and chairs and other things.

So far the project had progressed without any
money, but the time. had come when the two staff
members could go no further. A letter sent to the
Cleveland Foundation listed the needs and the
approximate cost of supplies. Within a short time,
seventy-one dollars was sent to the nursery. It
was all that was needed. Three weeks from the
day the staff members had first discussed the idea,
the nursery was furnished and ready for the first
group of children.

Three leaders were supplied by the WPA Rec-
reation Project. The nursery specialist outlined a
program of reading for the girls, only one of
whom had any previous nursery experience. She
devoted hours of her time to training them in the
technique of nursery procedures, and made ar-
rangements for them to visit existing groups so
they might observe them. In the mornings the
girls observed, and in the afternoons they can-
vassed the neighborhood for children between the
ages of three and five whose mothers would be
interested enough to bring their children and call
for them every day.

On December I, 1937, the Central Recreation
Center Pre-School Group opened its doors. It was
not to be called a nursery until trained nursery
teachers could supervise the program. The plan
was to let the nursery get off to a slow start, with
the first group of children passed by the doctor.
So the first week there were fewer than ten chil-
dren. This number increased until there were
thirty enrolled, and a waiting list had to be estab-
lished. NYA supplied nursery aides to keep the
toys and furniture washed. The councilman of
the ward promised milk, codliver oil and crackers
for the first six months. Later the donations made
by the mothers bought all supplies except the
skim milk which was donated by a milk company.

3Jelieving that unless the parents were educated
along with the child, there was little to be gained
in educating the child, the leaders approached the
Family Health Association and asked for someone
to conduct the Mothers’ Club meetings. A na-
tionally-known parent education lecturer was sent
to the center every week to help the mothers with
all types of problems from budgeting to child care.

Gradually the school took hold. New equip-

ment was added from time to time. The Federal
Art Project contributed a mural and three ap-
propriate pictures. Goldfish, turtles, garden proj-
ects and other types of projects were added to
make the program more interesting. All this time
the mothers had been making small weekly dona-
tions (no charge can be made for activities in the
recreation center), and those who could not pay
served the nursery in one way or another.

In January 1939, an afternoon group, started
on the same basis as the morning group, raised
the total enrollment to sixty; with as many on the
waiting list. The age requirement was dropped
from three to two and a half years and a rest
period was added to the program. A milk fund
established by Flora True Bowen, young Cleve-
land musician, provides milk for this group.

The one weak link in the whole chain was the
uncertainty of leadership. By this time the nurs-
ery was being run by two competent and trained
nursery teachers, but because they were subjected
to WPA regulations, no one could be sure how
long the nursery could count on them. Some-
thing had to do done to insure permanent teach-
ers. Up to this point the staff members and the
teachers had shouldered all responsibilities. It
seemed time to let the Mothers’ Club take over.

After several exciting meetings of the Mothers’
Clubs, a constitution was drawn up and accepted.
Committees were organized to run a benefit to buy
needed equipment, cots and linoleum. Weekly
donations, however small, and attendance at club
meetings and lectures were voted to be necessary
duties of each mother. A fund was started to take
care of. a teacher’s salary, and a movement was
begun to try to get a teacher on the city payroll.

Those mothers who protested that the require—
ments were too strict, and others who regarded
the nursery as a “parking place” for their children
were told: “Your children need us more than we
need them. The waiting list is crowded with

mothers who understand the purpose of the nurs- ‘

ery and are ready and willing to help.”

And the mothers saw the point! They have a
new respect for the project and are responding
valiantly. Their plans for the year are enough to
make any campaign manager sit up and take
notice!

Besides the actual benefits to child and mother,
the ntlrsery has helped to acquaint the other mem-
bers of the families with the recreation facilities
of the center. Whole families make use of the

(Continued on page 476)

Co-Education and Recreation
in the

Jewish Community Center

HE HISTORY of the Jewish

Community Center movement

in the United States is from
one point of view a striving for
the development of a pattern of program and or-
ganization that encompasses the leisure-time needs
of all members of the family. The Jewish com-
munity is in a sense the enlarged Jewish family
and the Community Center the larger home. The
conditions of urban life, which have deprived the
home of much of its power and ability to meet the
after-school and after-work needs of its mem-
bers for recreation, social life and cultural growth,
have emphasized the obligation of the Community
Center to serve in these areas of human interest.
The Center can, of course, readily become a sub-
stitute instead of an adjunct of the home with a
consequent serious loss of value to the individual
and to society. But it will not happen if the Com-

munity Center in truth represents a community

of interest of parents and children.

The Principle of Universal Membership

This philosophy of the Jewish Community Cen-
.ter governs the program, policies and manage-
[ment and has implications also for Jewish com-
munity organization which perhaps are beyond
the immediate scope of this article. One of the
!basic principles that follows naturally from the
concept of the Jewish Community Center as the
ienlarged Jewish family is
‘that of universal member-

 

ship. All individuals of
the community, regardless
of sex, age, social or po-
litical status, are eligible
for membership. Member-
ship privileges are alike
for all, men, women,
boys and girls, except for
those minor limitations
Ithat may be necessary in
“,the interests of good ad-

Eministration. In order to

By LOUIS KRAFT

Acting Executive Director

Jewish Welfare Board

"The Jewish Community Center is still in the
process of development as a cultural and so-
cial agency. Many phases of its work are as
yet experimental. It is, however. of the es-
sence of its character as a community organi-
zation that it views its program in the broad-
est terms of service to all elements in the
community. Hence its co-educational approach
is basic. The records of participation give
encouragement to the belief that it is suc-
ceeding as a co-educational enterprise. Ap-
proximately forty per cent of the 380,000
members of the Jewish Centers are women
and girls. and in many joint activities they
are dominant in numbers and in leadership."

make membership actually avail-
able, allowance is made for differ-
ences in ability to pay fees, so that
no one maybe barred from affilia-
tion. A very substantial number of Centers have
family memberships, in order to further empha-
size the desire to serve all members of the family.

The principle of universal membership has not
always been recognized in Jewish center work.
Many of the Centers that now function on an all-
inclusive basis originally served more limited
groups. Some began as Young Men’s Hebrew
Associations, serving men only and later opening
membership to boys. Young women formed
Young Women’s Hebrew Associations of their
own, or such organizations were established by
older women to serve girls. Jewish settlement
houses, Educational Alliances and similar organi-
zations were established to help immigrant groups
to become Americanized. ‘

All of these organizations had limitations as to
clientele, purpose and program. Gradually they
assumed a common pattern, that of the Jewish
Community Center, although a few still function
on the original basis. The movement towards an
acceptance of the Community Center idea has
been stimulated by the Jewish Welfare Board,
which since 1921 has served as the national c0-
ordinating agency of local Centers and kindred
organizations. The total number of these organi-
zations is in fact smaller
than it was twenty years
ago. But whereas, in 1921,
there were 150 Y.M.H.A.’s
113 independent Y. W.
H.A.’s, and but 62 Cen-
ters, that might be said to
serve on a broader plan of
membership (Settlement
Houses are included), at
the present time 261 of
the 325 constituent socie-
ties of the Jewish Wel-
fare Board are of the

457

458 CO-EDUCATION AND RECREATION IN THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER

Community Center type. Y.M.H.A.’s have merg-
ed with Y.W.H.A.’s in many communities to
form Community Centers and in each case mem-
bership was opened to adults and children as well
as to young people.

Universality of membership implies not only
equality of privilege in use of facilities but free-
dom to share in management. Progress in this
direction has been slow. The government of
Jewish Centers is still largely man-controlled,
though the tendency is definitely in the direction
of more adequate representation of women on
Boards of Directors and committees. The prin-
ciple is gaining in acceptance not only that adults
of both sexes should share in management, but
that young people should, as they demonstrate
ability and interest, be given Board and Commit-
tee responsibility. Similarly it is true that men
and women are increasingly elected to the Board,
who do not represent wealth or social position.
This development is in part due to recognition of
the democratic character of the Center as an in-
stitution of the people, to some extent because of
the degree of self-support of the Center, and be-
cause afliliation of the Center with the local Jew-
ish Federation or Community Chest, makes “com-
munity” support impersonal. All of these factors
limit the need of depending upon individual phi-
lanthropy, and encourage the selection of individu-
als for responsibility in the government of the
Center on the basis of ability to make a contri-
bution of leadership and service.

Cooperation of the sexes is further promoted
through a variety of house councils, club councils
and functional councils, the latter organized on
the basis of a common interest in a specific ac-
tivity or group of related activities. These coun-
cils are, ‘with few exceptions, composed of mem-
bers of both sexes. Some of the councils have
limited governmental functions. They are pri-
marily concerned with program and may be re-
garded as part of the government of the center
only when they have representation in the board

or on committees of the board. They are of in- '

terest in this discussion because they play a vital
role in engaging the cooperation of members of
both sexes in the exercise of responsibility and the
planning of activities, thereby contributing to
normal relationships and cultivating the habit of
working together for socially desirable goals.

Cooperation in Planning and Administration
Cooperation of the sexes in the planning and

conduct of activities is a significant factor in Jew-

ish Center life, primarily because of two charac-
teristics of the center. First, it is a voluntary as-
sociation or fellowship. Men and women join of
their own will and pay for the privilege. They
have a strong consciousness of belonging to an
organization of their own, where the act of affilia-
tion symbolizes entering fellowship with equals.
They are joining a “Club House” to which they
feel free to come at any time. The need of indi-
viduals for a “Club” responds to an inner drive
for the society of their fellows. It also answers
the urgent need for status. In the free atmosphere
of the center young men and young women are
accepted as individuals for their contributions they
make in activity—social, cultural, recreational
without reference to success or failure in the out-
side world. This is particularly true of girls and
single women.

The restrictions imposed by conventions upon
their social activities outside of the home are shed
when they enter the Center. No one will question
their going to the Center unescorted or attending
activities with members of the opposite sex in
their own club house. Because the Center is so
vital to the satisfaction of individual needs, mem-
bers of both sexes can be readily encouraged to
assume responsibility for helping to make it a
good, desirable and interesting place.

The Program of Co-Recreation

The second important characteristic of the Cen-
ter is the “co-educational” character of most of
the activities. It may be said that practically every
leisure—time activity in which it is natural or de-
sirable for members of both sexes to participate
finds place in‘the program of the well organized 
Jewish Community Center. Dances, entertain— '-
ments, social games, suppers, Parents’ Day pro-'
grams, observance of civic and Jewish holidays,
dramatics, art, formal classes, forums, concerts,
choral societies, informal cultural groups, some
clubs and special interest groups, discussion
groups, religious services, study groups in Jewish I
and general subjects and many other activities are-
conducted for both sexes. Indeed, some couldg'
not be held otherwise, the activity depending upon
participation of men and women, boys and girls.
In recent years some Centers have introduced;
activities in the gymnasium in which boys and
girls play together. Mixed swimming is likewise
no longer a novel venture. Naturally the Center
has not been immune from the general movement
for mixed participation in sports that is a grow—
ing manifestation of activity of young people.

“— .I—I— mum “I‘D- au—

CO-EDUCATION AND RECREATION IN THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER 459

The Center is not exceptional
among the many youth-serv-
ing agencies that recognize
the need for participation of
the sexes in leisure-time pur-
suits of an informal and for—
mal character. If there is any
distinctive element in the
Center program, it derives from the fact that
such participation is regarded as a normal purpose
of the Center and that people engage in co-educa-
tional activities not as invited guests, but as mem-
bers of an organization which treats both sexes

as equals.

Interests Which Cannot Be Shared

It should not be concluded that all activities are
on a co-educational basis. The Center recognizes
that boys and girls have interests also as boys and
as girls which they cannot share with members of
the opposite sex. There are age levels at which
boys prefer the companionship of boys in activity.
This is also true of girls. It is true of adult
groups as well. Certain activities are designed for
or appeal more to boys than to girls, and vice
versa. Practically all of the typical boys groups,
e.g., Boy Scouts, and the typical girls groups are
given place in the Center program. Special classes
and cultural courses for senior and adult women
are conducted in the domestic sciences, child care,
personality development, and other specific inter—
ests which they have as women. The Center
houses many adult women’s societies with specific
programs of their own.

The separation of the sexes is most striking in
the gymnasium and allied activities, formal classes,
in some games, and special activities such as Men’s
Health Club, married women’s groups.

Many Centers conduct Day Camps and coun-
try camps. The former serve boys and girls, but
in the case of country camps, co-educational pro-
grams are as yet limited. Although some camp
sites are used for boys and girls, sometimes si—
multaneously, there is little mingling of the sexes
in daily activity. Dramatics, social functions, re-
ligious exercises, holiday observances are often
jointly planned and conducted. In some instances
children eat together and there is some inter—
Camp visiting. Except for the very young chil-
dren, however, camp life as a whole is not shared
by campers of both sexes. Even under the pres-
ent limitations in co-educational activity, there
are nevertheless obvious advantages in joint man-

"The values of co-education and recrea-
tion cannot be measured statistically.
They are the intangible by-products of
normal association of men and women in
a rich social experience of benefit to
themselves as individuals and to the
society of which they are members."

agement, common use of fa-
cilities, convenience to par-
ents who visit sons and
daughters in camp, central
registration and promotion
and economies in purchasing.

The fact that so many ac-
tivities are offered for the
members of one sex is a reflection of the policy
of the Center to try to serve the individual needs
of members, to recognize common interests and
differences of a' psychological nature. It does
not signify a modification of the essential charac-
ter of the Center as a Community Center and as
a co-educational enterprise. It is necessary to bear
in mind that affiliation with the Center is on the
basis of life time interests. Boys may grow into
youth, young manhood and adulthood in Center
life. The same is true of girls. Interests change,
but affiliation may continue since the Center rec-
ognizes, in its manifold program, the importance
of satisfying changing needs. At many points,
therefore, in the association of the individual with
the center, there are opportunities for co-educa-
tional activity.

Physical Facilities

The ability of the Center to serve various age
groups and members of both sexes depends largely
on physical facilities that provide for common
interests and also for special needs of the sexes.
They must further permit the simultaneous use
of facilities by both sexes, and in so far as pos-
sible, all age groups. The architectural problem,
while difficult, has been effectively solved. In gen-
eral, the facilities may be classified into those for
common use and those especially designed for
separate use.

The common areas are the auditorium (used
for dances, social functions, dramatics, forum
concerts, banquets, religious services, mass meet-
ings, annual meetings and dinners of communal
groups, and sometimes as a gymnasium), stage,
class and club meeting rooms, library, common or
social lounge for seniors, a similar lounge for
adolescents, quiet game rooms, social game room,
bowling alleys, art rooms, arts and crafts, gym-
nasium, swimming pool, basket room, health club,
roof garden or play yard, restaurant or coffee
shop.

The special areas for women consist of a
women’s lounge, sometimes a special meeting

(Continued on page 477)

 

Ally the Arts!

By HUGH LACY

ISCUSSION of the enormous con—
D tribution which more leisure

time will bring to national culture has made
it almost a platitude. Recreation leaders, how-
ever, give only a subordinate position in the rec-
reation program to cultural subjects. The basis
for this action lies in the belief that boys and girls
disdain cultural pursuits. Obviously this opinion
results from weighing popular activity prefer-
ences rather than needs; from ignoring the fact
that appreciation of the arts follows cultural
exposure and discipline.

The recreation program in Huntington Park,
California, has shown that potential participation
in the arts exists in any playground group. Chil-
dren of all ages can definitely be interested in
cultural activities through an integrated, properly
presented program. Using Huntington Park as a
representative metropolitan area, the problem of
imparting culture is one of approach.

Making the arts intelligible and natural—and
therefore appreciated -—— as-
sures participation, the Hunt—
ington Park Recreation De-
partment has found. Leaders
must introduce art as a by—
product of living, rather than
as something divorced from
everyday life. They must show

460

Mr. Lacy whoI in this article. makes
a plea for the development of an ap-
preciation of the arts as an objec-

tive of the recreation program. is edi-
tor of the "Recreation Round Table."
published by the WPA Division of

Recreation, Los AngelesI California.

young people that art is a way of see-
ing things more satisfactorily.

According to Richard C. Littleton, Hunting-
ton Park’s City Director of Recreation, successful
deve10pment of an interesting cultural program
which will fulfill its aim of contributing to indi-
vidual completeness and satisfaction depends on
the program directors’ knowledge that apprecia—
tion and underStanding go hand in hand, “As
long as art is something esoteric,” Mr. Littleton
says, “It will hold no position of worth in the
community recreation program. Art must be .
brought home to the young participant as an ex- ‘
perience he can have in his own way, and not as i
an effete possession or thing belonging to the
privileged. Then art begins to come into its own.”

That is the basis of culture in Huntington Park.
This method of presenting a cultural recreation
program attracted 1,500 participants in music
activities alone during the first six months of
the organization of the program.

At the outset, the campaign
stressed music, as this art has
probably the highest receptiv-
ity among the untrained. Since
the beginning of the plan
dozens of adults and children,
many of whom had no previ-
ous interest in music, gather

ALLY THE ARTS! 461

at the Miles Avenue auditorium to practice or
hear and take part in programs. One novel feature
of the program is the Miles Avenue Kitchen
Symphony, a rhythm—band group of boys and
girls from six to ten years old' with an enrolled
membership of fifty. Another is the band for
older boys which gives weekly concerts in the
city park. Two other highly organized groups
are the Gage Avenue Swing Band, and the Miles
Avenue Symphony.

But the musical program was not aimed just at
the appreciation of music. The plan included the
integration of the arts. As synthesis is the key to
unity, integration of the arts was considered the
key to an effective cultural program. The rhythms
of musical note, of spoken line, of visual form
and of motion are interlinking. Young musicians
began to examine their instruments with a crafts~
man’s eye. As a result, many are making their
own violins and guitars. The youngsters’ rhythm
group made their own sal-
vage-craft instruments--
drums of pasteboard and tin-
can xylophones. Then too,
craft enthusiasts interested in
instrument-making have been

With this lead, recreation
musicians turn naturally to
.dance and pageantry; dance
enthusiasts gravitate to music
and drama; dramatic groups to song and rhythm;
craftsmen to stagecraft, painting and design.
Further development follows with heightened in-
terest in drawing, modeling and carving. The in-
ter-relationship is complete when recreational
playwrites, poets and lyricists begin to appear
within playground confines.

This cultural growth and achievement has not
been without problems. Many are circumvented
or solved by leaders; others solve themselves.
Professional conflict is one unfortunate obstacle,
but it is not insurmountable.

In the formative stage of the program private
music and dance instructors justifiably feared for
their livelihood in the face of "a free city-spon-
sored program in which beginners could practice
these specialties. Careful planning during this
period, limited instruction to groups with no in-
dividual assistance even in instrument tuning, and
time smoothed over this situation. Citizens grew
to realize the values of a broad program of art
appreciation. As many children with hitherto un-

"When art is shown to be expression and
self—realization in which all can take
partI then art is liberated. A program
that promotes the cultural phase on an
intelligible participant basis rather than
introduced to music. on a misunderstood
places culture on a sound footing. Then
the art of living can become the
greatest art."—Ricbatd C. Littleton.

discovered talent turned to music and dance, they
learned that group participation is insufficient for
perfection and sought private instruction. Stimu-
lation of this sort also resulted in sale of instru-
ments and Wider use of drawing supplies, arts and
crafts materials. No survey has been made, but
one can 10gically assume that library reading,
school activities, dramatics, and literature have
come in for their share of the enthusiasm.

In considering resultant personal enjoyment and
the aggregate contribution to the arts themselves,
the value of community cultural arts programs is
immeasurable. Schools, by making literature a
part of their curriculum, provide every literate‘
person with hours of enjoyment from reading.
Similarly, recreation pr0grams, by bringing
into the home less-known mediums such as the
interpretive dance, discover for the spectator and
participant new areas of pleasure and experience.
As this also creates greater appreciation for the
professional, it is a movement
in which all gain.

For urban dwellers this in—
tegrated cultural program has
a manifold reward. It adds
to education and versatility,
thereby to confidence and
poise; and, opening new
realms for personality ex-
pression, it counterbalances
hypertension and city strain.
In practice, it is what Rodin meant when he said,
“Slowness is beauty,” for leisure and reflection
are requisites of art. Most important of all, cul-
tural pursuits provide a basis for home stability,
enlivened and enriched home life, home dramatics,
photography, crafts-and-game rooms, music, read—
ing, and a higher type of discussion. Ultimately
these pursuits reach the highest art—the art of
living. The child whose home life is antipathetic
needs activities which absorb his mind and crea-
tive powers as well as his body. On the other
hand, a congenial home finds its congeniality
enhanced.

These results have appeared in the recreation
program of Huntington Park, a program in which
culture is not a fad but a permanent phase. These
results were achieved not by accident, but by de—
sign which can be applied anywhere. Director
Littleton knew that the common ingredients of
art are the human materials. He began with his
own hobby—music. Then he simply made each of
the arts interesting and allied them.

spectator basis,

Under the Harvest Moon

ANY YEARS have passed
M since a harvest moon
shone down on the Ply-

mouth Colony and the Pilgrim
Fathers’ thanksgiving; many
have passed since President
Lincoln proclaimed T h an k s -
giving a national holiday, but
today Thanksgiving is still the
same. Not forgetting its dig—
nity in thankful worship, we celebrate with feast-
ing and joyous sport. An informal, old-fashioned
party seems more appropriate for Thanksgiving
than for any other holiday. Here are some jolly
games which will help celebrate the occasion at

your Thanksgiving party.

Puzzle Relay. Prepare a large picture of a tur—
key and cut it up as a ig saw puzzle, into as many
sections as there are members on a team. For a
contest, two or more teams are necessary, and one
turkey is needed for each team.

Teams are lined up at one end of the hall, one
along side of the other,’ all facing the same way,
with the members of each team in single file be-
hind their captain. About five feet in front of
each team a chair, a table, or box is placed, and
on this table the cut-up parts of the turkey picture
are arranged, upside down so the picture is not
noticeable. The parts should be thoroughly shuf-
Hed after being cut up.

At a reasonable distance from this chair a circle
about two feet in diameter is drawn on the floor
in front of each team, and in the circle the puzzle
is to be put together. Another table will serve the
same purpose.

Starting line is marked in front of each captain,
and at the signal “Go” the captain runs to the
first table, takes one section of the turkey picture,
and runs to the circle, laying it down so that the
rest of the sections can be put there one by one to
build up the turkey. Then he runs back to his
team and touches the hand of the next person in
line; this player, after being touched, repeats the
performance of the captain, and
then runs back to touch off num—
ber 3. This continues until the
turkey is properly put together.
Each runner, after touching
the next player, falls in at the

462

A tew suggestions for a

Thanksgiving trolic from
which you are invited to

select a iolly game or

two, a few social mixers
’
or some mental "teasers'

The game suggestions offered here
were taken from a bulletin entitled
"Thanksgiving Party Suggestions,"
compiled by the Recreation Divi-
sion of the Chicago Park District.

rear of his team; if there are
more pieces than players, each
one may run twice. After the
turkey has been assembled, the
captain of each team runs
again to the turkey and sees to
it that the puzzle is properly
put together. Then he raises
his hand and runs back to the
starting line. The team finish-

ing lirst, of course, is the winner.

Putting the Head Back on the Turkey. Draw a
large headless picture of a turkey, goose, duck, or
chicken, on cloth, cardboard, or wood. Then draw
the head on a separate piece or make the head of
a piece of paper. This headless picture is placed
at the other end of the room, hanging or standing
vertically, as a blackboard would be.

Each player, one at a time, is blindfolded and
given the bird’s head with a couple of pins, and is
then led to the headless bird and instructed to pin
on the head. After each player does this, the spot
where lie or she pinned the head is marked With
the player’s name ;i and after all have had a turn,
the one closest to the proper place is given an
award. In case of a tie, the accuracy of the posi-
tion of the head shall determine the winner.

Mayflowera Divide players into groups of about
twenty persons who are to be Pilgrims. Have a
leader of each group start with number one and
say, “we are about to sail for America. What
do you plan to take with you?” Number one
names an article—suitcase, soap, chair, horse,
pipe, etc. The leader asks number two what he
expects to take, and number two selects an article.
This proceeds around the group.

The leader returns to number one and asks,
“What do you intend to do with this article?”
Number one makes a sensible reply; if he men—
tioned a suitcase, he says, “Carry my clothes in
it.” Then number two repeats his article and ap-
plies this answer; to it. If he took soap, he says,
“I’m taking soap; I intend to carry my clothes
in it.” If number three took a
chair he says, “I’m taking a ,
chair; I intend to carry my
clothes in it.” When everyone
has used number one’s answer,
the leader goes to number two

UNDER THE HARVEST MOON 463

and asks what he intends to do with his article.
He answers sensibly, “Wash my hands with it.”
Then number three applies this answer to his
article: “I’m taking a chair; I intend to wash my
hands with it.” This game continues in this man-
ner until each player has given an intended use
for his article.

Football Teams (a mixer). Pin on the back of
each guest the name of a football team such as
Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Yale, Harvard, Prince—
ton, Army, Navy, Notre Dame, N. Y. U. Each
is told not to let anyone see what is pinned on his
back. The leader then tells the guests that they
are to try to see how many names they can get on
their lists, at the same time trying to keep anyone
else from seeing what is written on their backs.
Require them also to secure the name and color
of the eyes of the person whose word they suc—
ceeded in getting. Let this continue for five or six
minutes, and then have them count the number
they have, giving a prize to the one who has the
largest number.

Thanksgiving Menu. The players should be asked
to suggest a Thanksgiving menu, each item of
which will begin with a letter in Thanksgiving.
The following is a suggestion:

T Turkey G Grits

H Hominy I Ice Cream
A Applesauce V Vinegar
N Noodles I Iced Tea
K Kraut N Nuts

S Sugar G Grapes

A prize may be given for the quickest to make
a list, another for the most balanced menu.

Turkey Hunt. Before the party starts, hide small
turkeys, purchased at the
five and ten cent store

other, one side being the Indians and the other
the Pilgrims. One person, who is blindfolded,
beats a drum. A dishpan may be substituted, al-
though a trap drum is better. One of the players
is given a tin can with rocks in it so that it will
rattle. As long as the drummer keeps beating, the
rattle passes back and forth. The line caught
with it when the drum stops is the loser, so the
other side wins five points. When the drum starts
again, the rattle moves on. Continue the game
not longer than five or ten minutes. A piano may
be substituted for the drum.

Feeding the Turkey. Choose one couple from
each team, and have the boy and girl sit facing
each other. The girl is given a paper bag with
twelve peanuts in it. At a signal from the leader
she is to open the bag, shell the peanuts, and feed
them to her partner. The others look on and root
for the couple from their team. The couple that

finishes first should receive a prize.

Stormy Weather. The grand march is used to
get the guests lined up in eight lines, each guest
taking plenty of room for himself. The leader
tells them that a terrific storm has arisen and that
if they are keen barometers they can sense the
feeling of the storm. She will read weather re-
ports to them, and as she does this they are to
pantomime the action of the storm. However,
when she calls out the direction in which the wind
is blowing, they are to face in the opposite direc—
tion. For example, when she says, “The wind is
blowing toward the east,” everyone must face the
west; but when she says, “The wind is whirling,”
they must spin around in a circle three times.

When she says, “The

wind is variable,” they

or cut out .of brown
paper or cardboard,
over the room. Tell the
guests that they are all
going turkey hunting
for these hidden tur-
keys. There will be a
mad scramble to find
them. About five min-
utes later, blow the
whistle and give a prize
to the one finding the
largest number.

Indian Drum Race.
The players line up in
two files facing each

THE FIRST THANKSGIVING

"It was the autumn of |62| in the Plymouth Colony.
The Pilgrim Fathers, having gathered in their meager
harvestsl decided to set aside a time for the giving
of thanks. Governor Bradford sent out four men to
shoot game. and they came back heavily laden with
wild gamel particularly wild turkey. Many friendly
Indians were invited to the feast. and they brought
in a great deal of deer meat and other game as their
contribution. A whole week was taken up with feast-
ing and recreational activities. including archeryI
target practice and Indian sports. From this time on'
Thanksgiving as a custom spread to the other col-
onies and was finally observed as a national holiday
by proclamation of President Lincoln. who designated
the last Thursday of November as Thanksgiving Day'
and called upon the people of the nation to offer
thanks for blessings received." — From Activities
Bulletin Series No. 3, Chicago Park ‘ District.

must sway back and
forth until she gives
them another direction.
All orders must be con-
tinued until another
order is given. If the
leader will end her re-
port by saying, “And
the wind whirled (al—
lowing the players to
Whirl three times), and
whirled (repeat), and
whirled”—the game will
end in helpless laughter.
(Continued on page 478)

You Asked for it!

Question: We are having great difficulty in
interesting the boys and girls of our centers in
civic affairs and in feeling any sense of responsi-
bility for helping in conducting a program directly
affecting their own welfare. Can you tell us of
any experiments in which self-government prin~
ciples have been used in an effort to meet such a
situation?

Anmver: In one large city two approaches are
being made to the problem. In the first project,
in a neighborhood where there is a high delin-
quency tradition, a boys’ self-government court
has been established with weekly court hearings
and regular court procedures. The judge and a
prosecuting attorney are appointed for three week
terms. Any boy guilty of misbehavior at the com-
munity center is served with a summons to ap—
pear at the next session of court. He is permitted
to have an attorney of his own choosing to repre—
sent him, and he may appeal for jury trial. If
charges are sustained, the usual penalty is some
form of labor contributing to the center operation.
For example, he is sentenced to scrub the floor,
wash windows, or perform some other service.
The feeling of participation in self-government
has resulted in a definite change of attitude on
the part of the boys.

In another project designed to create a feeling
of responsibility on the part of the boys and girls,
the plan was tried during Youth Week of having
an election for mayor, a state’s attorney, and a
commissioner of public service in each park of the
city. Legion posts, parent-teacher groups, schools,
and adult clubs frequenting the parks became in-
terested and took an active part in the forthcom-
ing campaign. In several of the parks sound
trucks were provided to support the juvenile
tickets, and while voting was restricted to chil-
dren between the ages of ten and sixteen, the
adult groups became more excited over the elec-
tion than they had been over some of the recent
municipal campaigns! Posters and banners were
made by the children with the aid of adults; sur-
rounding neighborhoods were organized into vot—
ing precinct wards, and in some instances there
were door-to-door campaigns, and canvassing can—
didates had their watchers at the polls and dur—
ing the counting of ballots. At one park boys
printed the ballots for their own and other parks.

404

On Election Day, though it rained violently while
the polls were open, nearly 8,000 votes were cast.
Each ticket had its announced platform, and an
interesting fact in connection with the platform is
that in every park one of the first principles enun-
ciated was that the candidates pledged themselves
and their party and supporters to an administra—
tion eliminating vandalism and other misbehavior.
In a number of the parks the candidates pledged
themselves to support clean-up activities to im-
prove the appearance of the parks, as well as to
help develop its services. Elaborate meetings were
staged to induct the elected officers into office,
their terms to run for the year. '

Elected officials have taken their offices with the
utmost seriousness. In one of the parks, where
girl officials were elected, the officials wrote a
letter to the Mayor and to the President of the
Park Board pledging themselves to support the
efforts of the park administration to make the
park a better influence in their neighborhood.

Park supervisors have been sitting in with these
juvenile officials ever since their election, and a
number of plans have been developed through these
cooperating representatives of the neighborhood
to appoint special youth committees with specific
functions to perform. In one of the parks the
children, looking over the building, decided there
should be a general house cleaning, and they en-
listed the entire electorate in helping the park
maintenance staff in a building and grounds clean—
up. Another group approached the park super-
visor regarding an unsightly and unused wading
pool in front of the building which had been con-
demned. After the maintenance department had
filled in the area and arranged for a flower bed.
the children took over the task of caring for the
Hower bed and planting it.

The park officials plan to call together from
time to time the elected officers of the various
parks and to discuss with them some of the prob-
lems they will face and some of the activities they
can undertake in their own field of operation.
The plan represents a new adventure in active
junior citizenship and service for the common
good made adventurous, and appealing also to the
ambitions of the children to accomplish things on
their own account. '

WORLD AT PLAY

THE entire week be-
fore Christmas is de-
voted to Christmas
celebrations at the Los

Angeles recreation centers. Each playground has
its own illuminated Christmas tree, and there are
programs throughout the week including chil-
dren’s and adults’ seasonal plays, operettas, pag-
eants, tableaux, puppet shows, dances, community
and carol singing, dramatized ballads, verse choirs,
harmonica music, costume parties, toy band selec-
tions, readings, pantomimes, and other entertain-
ment appropriate to the season. Children's parties
are an important part of the program, featuring
as they do plays and skits, storytelling, games,
singing, doll parties, and many other activities.
Instrumental music programs are presented by
Federal Music Project bands and orchestras, and
other musical groups. Choruses fostered by the
Recreation Department go a-caroling during
Christmas week to bring holiday cheer to hospitals
and shut-ins. All the choruses, orchestras, and
radio groups of the Department participate in the
celebrations. The groups broadcast over various
radio stations a series of Christmas songs. In 1938
they presented “The Creation,” “A Christmas
Carol” by Dickens, and other selections at
churches, schools, and playgrounds.

Christmas Time in
Los Angeles

Christmas Seals
1939-1940

THE annual sale of Christmas
Health Seals will begin this year
on December Ist instead of the
day following Thanksgiving.
Recreation workers all realize
the importance of cooperating
in this movement to eliminate
tuberculosis.

 

See the Museums
of Chicago

 

THE Chicago Park District is
sponsoring a project to bring

CHRISTMAS SEALS

 

Help to ProtectL Your
Home from Tuberculosis

out-of-town groups into Chicago for personally
conducted tours of ten museums and points of
public interest located in the Park District or on
park property. Several all-expense tours have
been set up and folders have been prepared for
general distribution. Further information may
be secured from Fred G. Heuchling, Chairman,
Chicago Museum Tours Committee, Chicago Park
District.

AN attractive poster
issued by the Public
Recreation Commis—
sion of Cincinnati,
Ohio, invites residents of the city to enjoy activi-
ties “under light” which are listed as bicycling,
archery, horseshoes, tennis, badminton, and ping—
pong. The poster also urges that groups plan a
bicycle picnic party.

Play Activities
“Under Light”

THE Union County,
New Jersey, Park
Commission reports a
631.7 per cent increase
in assessed valuations on properties adjacent to
Warinanco Park for the seventeen year period
from 1922 to 1939. This is nearly fourteen times
the average increase of 46.4 per cent for the en-
tire city during the same period
of years, according to a survey
recently made. In 1922 property
in Elizabeth, adjacent to the
park, was assessed at $703,155;
now the assessed valuation of
the same property is $5,144,980.
A similar, though less spectacu-
lar, increase was shown on lands
adjacent to the park in Roselle
where valuations on land ad-
jacent to the park jumped 256.7
per cent. By using the 1939 tax
rates for the two communities
it was found that the tax rev-
enue on the increased valuations
directly traceable to park de-
velopment totals $251,049 for
one year. The Commission also

calls attention to the fact that '
less than three cents of each

465

Play Areas Increase
Property Values

466 WORLD AT PLAY

dollar paid in property taxes by the residents of
the county is required to pay for the entire annual
cost of the county park system, including amor—
tization of and interest on bonds, and the yearly

maintenance appropriation.

For Conservation of America’s Resources—
Congress has authorized the expenditure of ap—
proximately one billion dollars for Conservation
during the fiscal year 1939-40, according to the
American Forestry Association. Analysis of the
bill of expenditures by the Congress which ad-
journed last August 5 shows regular appropria—
tions of $870,193,223 and Unemployment Relief
Allocations of $23,866,840, making a total of
$894,060,063. This total is divided among the
Civilian Conservation Corps and the conservation
bureaus of the Departments of Agriculture and
Interior. The largest item, $500,000,000, is for
payments to farmers for soil conservation

practices.

“A Tribute to Youth” — The Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, Bureau of Recreation 011 August
18th presented a pageant in Schenley Park under
the title, “A Tribute to Youth.” The pageant,
which was two hours in duration, showed the ac—
tivities of the Bureau during the summer months.
Among theSe were singing games, volleyball, bas-
ketball, a Polish folk dance, boxing, party group
games, a campfire scene, pantomime, and a toy
symphony. In this way the main divisions of the
program were covered—physical, arts and crafts,
social, nature study, drama, and music. The script
was written by John M. Wilkoff, one of the work-
ers of the Bureau of Recreation, of which Louis
C. Schroeder is SUperintendent.

Festival Making—The September, 1939 issue
of Childhood Education is devoted to the subject
of making festivals. Among the articles are the fol—
lowing: “Festival Making the Means of Growth”;
“A Festival of Lights” ; “How a Community Festi-
val Contributes to Democratic Living”; and “Fes—
tivals in a Mountain Community.” There is a
helpful bibliography on festivals under the title
“The Calendar in Books.” This source material
has been classified according to age groupings.

Training Standards for Aquatic Directors-—
The National Council of the Young Men’s Chris—
tion Associations announces the establishment of
new standards for accrediting professional direct-

ors and instructors of aquatics. These standards,
Mr. T. K. Cureton, Jr., Chairman of the National
Aquatic Committee, points out, are in strict ac-
cordance with the professional standards of the
National Council of the Y.M.C.A.’s and of the
Standards Committee of the American Associa-
tion for Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
tion. During 1939 approximately sixty training
institutes have been conducted in various parts of
the country for the introduction of the new pro-
gram to Y.M.C.A. physical directors and their as-

sociates.

Full information is given in a circular issued
by the Y.M.C.A. National Aquatic Committee,
347 Madison Avenue, New York City.

A Salute to Sidney Teller—Sidney Teller,
Director of Irene Kaufmann Settlement in Pitts—
burgh, Pennsylvania, has completed his twenty-
third year of public service as a social worker in
Pittsburgh and the thirty-seventh in his chosen
profession. The American Jewish Outlook in its
issue of September 1, 1939, selected Mr. Teller as
the thirty-first “salute” winner, Henry Kaufmann,
founder. of the Irene Kaufmann Settlement, hav-
ing been the first. Says the Outlook: “The wel-
fare of his community has ever been foremost in

Sidney' Teller’s mind.”

Along Coronado’s Trail—Miss Sarah Ger—
trude Knott, director of the National Folk Festi-
val, is now in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where
she will be working on the Coronado Cuarto Cen-
tennial Festivals to be held along Coronado’s trail
of four hundred years ago. She will be glad to
hear from any recreation groups in Colorado,
New Mexico, Arizona, or West Texas who might
be interested in cooperating in the festivals. Miss
Knott requests that communications be addressed
to her in care of \Vashington Post, Washington,
D. C.

Soap Sculpture Contest Announced—The
National Soap Sculpture Committee, 80 East 11th
Street, New York City, announces the sixteenth
annual competition for small sculptures in white
soap. The contest will close May 15, 1940. Copies
of a folder giving full information about the
classifications and conditions of the competition,
together with suggestions on how to do soap carv-
ing,may be secured on request from the Committee.

On the Wheeling Playgrounds—An all-time

WORLD AT PLAY 467

high for weekly playground attendance at the
eighteen playgrounds of Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia, was recorded this summer at the figure
of 50,244. Among the competitions carried on
at the centers were basketball, with three—man
teams, a new fad in novel tournaments called
“Stick in the Mud,” mumble—de-peg tourna-
ments, boxing, model airplane contests, horse-
shoe contests. mushball, softball, and tennis.
The boys and girls also enjoyed pet shows,
hobby shows, moving pictures, hiking, marsh-
mallow toasts, and other parties.

Junior Inspectors’ Clubs on the Playground
-—Last summer the Bureau of Recreation of
Scranton, Pennsylvania, introduced into the play-
ground program the Junior Inspectors’ Club
which proved of great help in keeping the play-
grounds clean and free from rubbish. There were
fifteen units in the club, one for each of the four—
teen playgrounds; the other the Long Table
Council. Each club held a weekly meeting. Any
boy or girl between the ages of eight and seven-
teen previously registered on the playground could
become a junior inspector and wear the official
red—on-white button provided by the Bureau. A
junior inspector was permitted to‘continue in
active standing until he persistently violated the
junior inspectors’ honor code or failed to take an
enthusiastic part in the club and playground pro-
gram. The purpose of the organization was “to
help make every week Clean-up Week in the an-
thracite capital of the world” by refraining to
throw rubbish in the playgrounds, buildings and
streets, and by picking up scattered papers and
depositing them in receptacles.

New Facilities in Cincinnati—According to
the annual report of the City Manager, over three
hundred acres of new facilities were put in use
in 1938 in Cincinnati, Ohio, and improvements
costing over a million dollars were completed
through the cooperation of WPA. Among the fa—
cilities were ten shelter buildings, a golf club
house, five hundred concrete park benches,
bleaclier seats for seven hundred people, and out-
door lighting facilities for sixteen tennis courts,
two general play areas, and two softball diamonds.

Respect for Beauty—Before the Great Lakes
Exposition held in Cleveland, Ohio, during the
summers of 1936 and 1937 the lake front was a
city dump of the most unsightly variety. Skeptics

   
 

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  

 

 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DBTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,

the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

Many Styles of Horseshoes

Official Courts 0 Stakes

Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
Rule Books ° Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

 

said it would never be anything else. A man with
a vision and a sense of beauty, however, made it
into horticultural gardens covering three and a
half acres and stretching for more than a thou-
sand feet along the shores of Lake Erie in the
city’s downtown area. With the closing of the
exposition, the gardens were turned over to the
city of Cleveland, automatically becoming a part
of the park system. The gardens now belong to.
the citizens of Cleveland and are open every day
from noon until evening. An admission fee of ten
cents is charged except on Mondays and Fridays.
Children with their parents or teachers are ad-
mitted free at all times. Sunset orchestral con-

Regarding Photographs

May we explain that the frontispiece of the
September issue of RECREATION should have been
credited to the New England Council, and the
picture showing a group of hikers on page 323 of
this number to the VVPA of Massachusetts. We
regret the omission of the courtesy lines.

468 WORLD AT PLAY

certs add to the beauty of the gardens on a sum-
mer evening. After the concerts, with few excep-
tions, the gardens are as lovely as before the
crowds come—a hne mark of appreciation on the

part of the citizens.

At a State Conference of Mayors—At the
New York State Conference of Mayors and other
municipal officials held in Niagara Falls, New
York, June 5-6, a number of the speakers men-
tioned the use of tax delinquent properties for

recreation.

Activities for Girls and Women in Lincoln,
Nebraska—Functioning under the Recreation
Department of Lincoln, Nebraska, is a Council of
Girls’ and Women’s Activities which is very en-
thusiastic and active. The Council has arranged
for a questionnaire to be filled out by each girl
enrolled in the junior and senior high schools.
These questionnaires will be analyzed and the
findings made available. It is hoped that more
girls will be reached by the various organizations
as a result of the survey. Recreation clubs for
girls known as the Beacon Clubs are functioning
in various sections of the city, ten clubs having
been in operation during the past winter season.
One club will continue throughout the summer
months. This program reaches girls who are not
served by other agencies. Eight women’s recrea-
tion clubs were organized during the winter sea—
son, two of which will continue through the sum-
mer months. Free golf and tennis classes for
business girls and women will be conducted by
the Recreation Department.

Nineteenth Annual Meeting of National
Conference on State Parks—Colonel Richard
Lieber of Indiana was elected to the newly cre-
ated position of Chairman of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Conference on State
Parks at their nineteenth annual meeting, June
4-7. Harold S. Wagner, Director, Secretary of
the Akron, Ohio, Metropolitan Park System, was
elected President of the Board. Major William
A. \Velch of New York and W. E. Carson of Vir-
ginia were re-elected Vice-Presidents, and Miss
Harlean James was re-elected Executive Secre-
tary. This year’s meeting was held at Lake Itasca
State Park, Minnesota, and was attended by ap-
proximately one hundred delegates from twenty-
six states. Next year’s meeting will be held at
Starved Rock State Park and New Salem State

Park, both in Illinois, and Spring Mill State Park

in Indiana.

Beach Safety—According to a release from
the Los Angeles, California, Playgrounds and
Recreation Department, it’s the youthful “he-man”
swimmer who has to be rescued at the beach most
frequently rather than the weaker swimming but
more cautious feminine bather.

This was one of the facts brought to light in a
report by C. P. L. Nicholls, aquatics supervisor
of the Recreation Department, following a ten
year survey of rescues at local beaches. Mascu-
line swimmers who had to be hauled out of the
sea by lifeguards far outnumbered girls and
women, the proportion being 71.32 per cent male
to 28.67 per cent female rescues. Age group
studies showed that the majority of individuals
saved by the beach guards were in the years be-
tween ten and twenty-live. Youths from fifteen
to twenty topped the list with 21.44 per cent of
the total rescues: Children from ten to fifteen
were responsible for 20.13 per cent, and young
adults from twenty to twenty-five contributed
16.04 per cent. The study showed that the Los
Angeles municipal beach guards had made a total
of 2,830 rescues during the ten year period from
1929 to the present year.

It was pointed out in the release that the em—
phasis has shifted to accident prevention and
safety education by which lifeguards warn bath-
ers against potential hazards, in that way remov- ‘
ing the necessity for many rescues.

Aiding Churches in Their Recreation Pro-
grams—The Playground and Recreation De-
partment of Los Angeles, California, working in
cooperation with church educational leaders, con-
ducted in February a demonstration of types of
social recreation. Church leaders were invited to
attend the gathering where demonstrations were
given in leading community singing, conducting
folk dancing and folk games, and putting on stunt
programs and social mixers.

Toy Lending Centers in Racine—Racine,
Wisconsin, has three toy lending centers
operated by WPA, and two more are to be
opened. The libraries are very successful. At
one of them alone there is an attendance of
125 a day, and over 900 toys are in circulation.

WORLD A T PLA Y 459

Winter Activities in Cincinnati—As the Cin-
cmnati, Ohio, Public Recreation Commission has
almost no municipally owned facilities, it has been
obliged to exercise great resourcefulness in secur-
ing facilities for its program. During the current
winter season the Commission has utilized the fa-
cilities of more than 170 different institutions,
forty of which are public schools, forty parochial,
while others include a great variety of types of
facilities such as branch libraries, the county jail,
the art museum, the general hospital, the National
Catholic Community House, and the Jewish Com-
munity Center. Tens of thousands of boys and
girls use the coasting streets and facilities for
coasting at the Commission’s municipal golf
courses and playhelds. On the play streets set
aside for coasting there was not a single instance
of serious injury.

Music Enjoyment in Dartmouth—The De-
partment of Music at Dartmouth has put into ef-
fect a new schedule of eighteen courses which are
divided into non-technical and technical. As a
prerequisite for the non-technical group, students
will now be required to take an introductory
course dealing with the essentials of music com-
position which is designed to stimulate the enjoy-
ment of music by the development of intelligent
listening. In the non-technical group there are
also courses on chamber music and the art song
which have been combined with former elemen-
tary survey courses.

Extensive outside musical activities on the
campus include outstanding orchestras, artists,
ballet as a regular part of the year’s musical pro-
gram subsidized by the college.

An Old—Fashioned Picnic —— Philadelphia’s
first annual picnic day sponsored by the Bureau
of Recreation was a great success. In preparation
for the event the city’s recreation centers had been
divided into eight districts with a chairman in
charge of each. Meetings had been held, pro—
grams planned, and eight ideal picnic sites selected
for the outing. At 9:30 on July 19th, mothers,
fathers, sisters, and brothers met at their respec—
tive centers loaded down with lunch boxes, and
climbed into busses. On arriving at the picnic
site, the district centers gathered together around
the Hag pole for patriotic exercises. Even though it
had not been planned for lunch to follow immedi-
ately after the fiag raising, the program was tem-
porarily disrupted until appetites were appeased!

_

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARHDWS

OF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
winners throughout America. Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men. archers themselves, in America's largest
plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting farm, building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

I BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. BS Pine Bluff. Ark.

After lunch scheduled events were held, similar
throughout the city with slight variations. They
included bathing where facilities permitted, a free
play period, quiz contests, spelling bees, baseball,
volleyball, dodge ball, sack races, egg races and
peanut scrambles, water contests, a treasure hunt,
fishing, band concerts, community singing, and a
home talent hour. At 5 :00 o’clock the picnic was
officially over, and the picnickers returned in
busses to the starting points. Over 2,000 people
took part in the picnic.

Autumn Festival at the Golden Gate Inter-
national Exposition—On September 22, 23 and
24, a gala festival was held at the Golden Gate
International Exposition in San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, with a continuous country fair and rural
Olympic competitions. On the first day came folk
music and dances by English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh,
Spanish, and Mexican groups. The second day
featured native America in song and dance,
climaxed by a barn dance. International groups
participated on the third day when rural Olympic
finals were scheduled, and an international ball
was held at night.

Day Camp Programs in Milwaukee—On
each of its three nature playgrounds last sum-
mer, the Milwaukee Department of Municipal
Recreation conducted day camp programs.
Each playground was given an opportunity to
send a group of children to one of these nature
camps to spend the entire day “adventuring in
nature.”

After securing written permission from their
parents, the children were picked up at the
playgrounds by a specially chartered bus for
which they paid twenty cents a round trip.

470

WORLD AT PLA Y

Keep in touch with trends
in Character and Citizen-

ship education through

the magazine

CHARACTER
and CITIZENSHIP

Its stimulating articles on character develop-
ment and citizenship training through work
and play in the home, school, church, and
community give you a well-rounded picture
of all character and citizenship building

agencies.

Learn to Understand the

Children. and Adults Too. with
Whom You Have Contact

Read the fascinating story of personality
development,

UN TYING APRON STRINGS

by Helen Gibson Hogue

A book scientifically accurate yet easy to
read as your daily newspaper.

Send your order: to:

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP
5782 Harper Ave.. Chicago. III.

I enclose $ ............................ .. for

E] One-year subscription to CHARACTER
and CITIZENSHIP

D One-year subscription to CHARACTER
and CITIZENSHIP plus a copy of the
book, UNTYING APRON STRINGS $2.50

Name ............... .._ ................................................... ..

Addrerr ............................................................... ..

City ........................................ .. State .................. ..
Rec.

 

A day camp assistant supervised the bus trips
of the forty children between the ages of 11
and 14 who could be included and acted as
assistant to the director at the camp. The
children brought their noon lunches. Meat and
Wieners were broiled and potatoes and corn
were baked over the campfire. Each child was
given a half pint of milk to drink with his
lunch.

The activities at the day camp included
nature trails, nature talks, stories and discus-
sions, nature handcraft, scavenger hunts,
nature games, camp cooking and swimming.

Discussion of Swimming Pool Construc-
tion———Recreation officials will be interested in
noting a discussion of swimming pool con-
struction which has appeared in the June and
July issues of Parks and Recreation. This
material was prepared by C. P. L. Nicholls,
Supervisor of Aquatics, Department of Play-
ground and Recreation, Los Angeles, Calif-
ornia. It is entitled “Planning the Recreational
Swimming Pool.” '

Houston Park Dedication———In conjunction
with the Juneteen Celebration, seventy—fourth
observance of the Emancipation Proclamation,
the Emancipation Park Civic Improvement
Club of Houston, Texas, and the Houston
Colored Recreation Council dedicated Emanci-
pation Park in that city this summer.

The Emancipation Civic Club boasts fifteen
years of service to the community in trying

to improve the physical surroundings, per— 

petuate and preserve the natural beauty, im-
prove the moral conditions, encourage social
and recreational experiences of the highest
type for both the youth and the adult citizen
of Houston. In addition to improving the

playground and building a bandstand forl

Sunday afternoon concerts, the Club agitated
for tennis courts and instituted a library
reading room. The membershave now pledged
themselves to secure city—wide membership
so that Emancipation Park will remain “one
of the finest leisure time units in the entire

South.”

A Demonstration Playground—In its annual

report for 1938—1939 the Playground and Rec-2

reation Association of Victoria, British Col-

TO PROMOTE NATURE RECREATION 471

umbia, tells of the success of the demonstration
playground conducted in Carlton for the pur—
pose of arousing the interest of the citizens in
the project. Daily programs Were rigidly
planned. Sports included cricket, football,
Wrestling, jumping for boys; and for both boys
and girls, basketball and other team games,
relay races, ball games, and deck tennis. There
were such quiet occupations as clay modeling
and finger printing, storytelling, and play with
toys from the toy lending shop. Water sprays
were much enjoyed, and as many as four
hundred children a day were taken from the
playground to the Olympic pool where swim—
ming lessons Were given. Attendance averaged
between three and four hundred children of all
ages, and on a gala day the record reached
over seven hundred.

The demonstration was of special importance
because a large section of the public saw for
the first time a modern playground in opera—
tion. A working model of the recreation center
which was on display attracted much interest.

Steubenville Holds Sports Gathering—Play-
grounds are awarded city championships in
games and athletics in Steubenville, Ohio. At
their annual sports gathering the winners from
each center competed in checkers, horseshoes,
bean bag tossing, hand tennis, jackstones, hOp—
scotch and swimming. On the day following
the competition, more than a hundred children
from one of the playgrounds visited the state
park under the sponsorship of the Recreation
Department.

Chicago at Play—-—Some of the summer rec-
reation facilities enjoyed by Chicago’s citizens
are listed in the June 9th issue of the Service
News Bulletin prepared by the Chicago, Illi-
nois, Recreation Commission. They include
twenty-three street—end beaches under the
jurisdiction of the Municipal Bureau of Parks,
Recreation and Aviation which also supervises
three natatoriums, thirty-nine playgrounds,
and numerous small parks. The 'Chicago Park
District last summer administered fifteen lake—
front beaches, fifty-two outdoor pools, six in—
door pools, five golf courses, forty-one picnic
groves; thirty-six archery ranges, 353 softball
diamonds, 571 tennis courts, III baseball
diamonds, 282 horseshoe courts, and fourteen

To Promote Nature Recreation

HE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL of the Society

of Recreation Workers of America has made
the promotion of nature recreation one of its
major objectives for 1939-1940. The importance
of this action and ways in which best results
might be accomplished were enumerated by V. K.
Brown of Chicago, retiring president, in his re-
port to the Society at a meeting held on October
12th at the Recreation Congress in Boston. “I
want to propose,” said Mr. Brown, “that concert-
edly we make nature recreation a major objective
of the coming year. I propose that as a profes-
sional organization we institute a nation—Wide cam-
paign, whether our function be that of adminis-
trators or groups, whether we be physical experts,
drama experts, crafts or arts, or music experts,
that we resolve we will add to our accustomed
planning and program a determined emphasis on
developing and organizing a nature eXploring
movement.” In doing this Mr. Brown urged co-
operation with garden enthusiasts and park au—
thorities, home owners’ associations, and inter-
ested citizen groups.

“W e can carry on nature interests in the Win—
ter months in preparation for spring. We can
extend gardening interests by window boxes in
our shelter buildings. We can plant vines to cover
enclosure fences. We can promote the making of
nature study collections, the use of nature pat—
terns in art, the study of natural color in flowers
and vegetation. We can hold exhibitions of
flower arrangement. We can organize insect zoos.
We can gather mineral specimens, develop aqua-
riums, give attention to pets. Even in small parks
we can organize nature trails in the guise of
treasure hunts.”

As a result of a campaign for nature recreation
Mr. Brown predicted two main results. “For
ourselves and our following in the communities.
if we agree to make this a matter of special effort
this year, we will develop naturally a new ex--
tension of the recreation movement into another
field of interest. We will get nature study started
everywhere on a more vigorous program of de—
velopment. But, secondarily, We will safeguard
our movement against indifference or misunder-
standing at the hands of a great many peOple in
the country who are not without considerable in—
fluence and who think. of us now as being inter-
ested only in sports and physical activities alone.
Merely talking recreation from the viewpoint of

472 WORLD AT PLAY

its cultural significance is not convincing to them.
Joining with them to effect, in community life, a
partnership in operational deve10pment of pur-
poses about which they are enthusiastic will go
much further in convincing them that our move-
ment is actually interested in a richer pattern of
life than anything which we can can say. Our
action will be eloquent, beyond the eloquence of

words.”

 

 

miles of bridle paths. In addition, many parks
have bowling greens, shufHeboard, roque, la
bocce, badminton, volleyball, handball, 'and
croquet courts.

Annual Play Day——As the final event of the
Springfield, Illinois, playground season, the
city Playground and Recreation Commission
sponsored their annual play day at Lincoln
Park. The twenty playground units all
gathered together to celebrate the last outing
of the summer.

During the summer months the playgrounds
offer among their sports dodgeball, ping-pong,
horseshoes, and a game devised by a play-
ground director, which has no name but is
played with homemade paddles, a tennis ball
and a volleyball net. The day’s activities at the
park included a dodgeball tournament, hop-
scotch tournament, checkerboard contest,
horseshoe doubles and singles, mile bicycle
race, bean bag pitching, softball, picnic con-
tests and games.

The Newest Municipal Rose Garden—-—“As
we go to press, Boise, Idaho, seems to have
the newest Municipal Rose Garden, having
dedicated it June 21, just ten days after Presi-
dent Kirk of the American Rose Society dedi—
cated Salt Lake City’s new garden. The
Boise Garden is located in Julia Davis Park,
and at dedication time had 112 beds containing
102 different varieties of roses with some
2,600 plants on hand for additions and re-
placements.” Extract from The American Rose
:lfagasine, July-August, 1939.

The Sandlotters Play Ball in Cleveland—
Leading the nation in the development of
sandlot baseball, the city of Cleveland spon-
sored a patron drive for their Amateur Day,
the one day when the Cleveland Baseball

Federation asks financial support through
patrons and gate receipts at the baseball game
held that day. Six hundred and forty-one
teams are affiliated with the Federation, mak-
ing a total of 9,615 players, not including the
independent and wildcat leagues which rely on
the organization. Of this total, 4,755 youngsters
play in the Catholic Youth Organization and
in three unbacked classes. As the Cleveland
Baseball Federation is responsible for the
activities of these children, the Amateur Day
funds supply bats, baseballs, catcher’s outfits,
gloves, and free umpire and scorer’s services.
Aside from this use, the funds make it possible
to guarantee each player free medical attention.

Keeping Money at Home—Representative
Thomas A. Jenkins from Ohio recently fore-
cast that the resumption of land purchases by
the Forest Service of Ohio would add millions
of dollars to the value of forest areas and rec-
reational facilities of the state. The removal of
restrictions on land purchases in Ohio cleared
the way for the ultimate acquisition of 1,000,-
000 acres in the southeastern counties. Having
set up five sections for inclusion in a land
purchase program in 1934, the Forest Service
has bought 34,234 of the 1,000,000 available
acreage.

The reason for the marked emphasis on land
purchases lies in the statement of Representa-
tive Jenkins that no state comparable to Ohio
has so few recreational centers. By some such
method as land purchases, Ohio will be able
to hold tourist money at home. Now a large
percentage of southern resort traffic is com-
prised of cars with Ohio license plates. Into .
Michigan, too, a state whose $300,000,000
tourist patronage arises partially from her rec-
reational advantages, Ohio sends more tourists
than any other state.

World Federation of Education Associations
——Early last July 750 teachers sailed from New
York and returned on August 28th after a
goodwill cruise of 15,000 miles to fifteen Latin
American ports and a conference of the World,
Federation of Education Associations. A
pamphlet giving the history, aims, and objec-
tives of this organization may be secured from-

the Secretary General, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

WORLD AT PLAY 473

Fifty Years of Growth—With a population
of 450, Lakewood, Ohio, was incorporated in
1889. This year Lakewood celebrated its
fiftieth anniversary with a parade witnessed by
100,000 spectators. The highlights of the
parade were a group of colonial Hags, a por-
trayal of the spirit of ’76, and a covered wagon
drawn by two mules. Contrasting modern
Lakewood to the village incorporated a decade
before the turn of the century, a “dinky”
streetcar of the nineties traveled through the
parade by the side of a modern Cleveland
streetliner. Included in the lines were the
Cleveland mounted police, the sheriff and 50
deputies, and a 40-piece Salvation Army Band.
An additional activity, the Lakewood mer—
chants’ eighth annual community picnic, con-
tained on its program numerous contests with
prizes, and distribution of peanuts, candy, and
coffee. Still another part of the anniversary
was the celebration pageant, “Wagons West.”
With a cast of a thousand persons, the eighteen
episodes of the spectacle dramatized the
history of the Lakewood area.

Fun with Education—Staff and students of
the 12th Annual Nature Leaders Training
School last summer spent a four week session
of education and fun at the school’s mountain
camp at Lake Terra Alta, Preston County,
West Virginia. The campers interspersed rec-
reation with training: they studied botany and
mammology, mounted insects collected during
the class in insect study, listened to informal
lectures, tramped on field trips, swam, and
‘ played games. After the camp closed, the
‘ volunteer workers of the West Virginia Nature

Association met at Oglebay Park for a review

and discussion of the camp activities. In

achieving their first objective, they discussed
I the school’s favorable and unfavorable aspects
‘ with a view toward making the 13th school
i more effective. A second objective was to plan
for the reorganization of the association. The
new development of an IS-acre camp site at

Lake Terra Alta necessitates an expansion of

its membership in order to make full use of the

proposed permanent camp.

i A New Playground for Cape May—Funds
I left by John W. Underhill, a Negro philan-

i
I
I

"KEEP THE RECORD”

of the Twenty-Fourth National Recreation
Congress at Boston by ordering a copy of
the Proceedings scheduled for publication
early in November.

The Proceedings will contain the main
addresses, summaries of discussion

groups, findings of committees, and other

important information about the Congress.

0 Order copies now at
$1.00 each from . . .

N A T I O N A L
RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

thropist of Mays Landing, New Jersey, are
making possible a playground for the public
school children of that county seat town. Mr.
Underhill many years ago opened a little
candy, tobacco, newspaper, and novelty store.
School children brought most of his trade.
He prospered, invested in a real estate business
which was financially successful. \Vhen Mr.
Underhill died it was found he had left his
estate of more than $100,000 to the township
and School Board for recreational purposes.
Part of the bequest has been used to improve
Memorial Park. Trustees of the fund have
used much of the remainder to buy a large
tract which will be equipped as a modern
playground.

1939 Softball Rules Available—The thcial
Softball Guide for 1939 containing rules, in-
terpretations, pictures, and sources of local
softball activities is now available. It is pub—
lished by the American Sports Publishing
Company, 19 Beekman Street, New York City.
Price 25 cents.

474

   
  

 
   

Subscription

   

Price

$2.00

A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS

§chooQ Activate;

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living
and Working together.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO.

 

 

A Creative Community Christmas
(Continued from page 433)

sang “O Come, All Ye Faithful,” thus closing the
festival. The curtains were drawn.

There was much hesitation in leaving. We had
to call out a “Merry Christmas” to indicate that
the festival was over, but two or three women
came to the piano to ask for more singing and
playing. So we had some more, informal and
around the piano or near it, and it was unforget—
tably enjoyable. Many individuals expressed sin-
cere appreciation of the festival, and almost all
regretted that there were not more people gath-
ered for it. The normal school principal, how-
ever, upon hearing this regret expressed, ex—
claimed, “That’s all right. This is only a begin-
ning. Next year there will be more!”

A very delightful part of the whole affair was
the informal chatting after it in the corridor while
people waited for the costumed and made up par—
ticipants to get back into their usual costumes and
physiognomies. One felt assured that the pur-
poses and faiths of a Christmas festival are en-
tirely true and practicable.

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

The following are the songs referred to in this
article. Each number beside the title of the song
refers to the song collection listed below in which
words and musical accompaniments are included.
Many of these are also included in other

collections.

Silent Night—1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 — 6

Deck the Hall with Boughs of Holly—1 - 2 - 3 — 4 - 5 - 6

Here We Come A-Carol-ling (in some collections called
Here We Come A-Wassailing)—3 - 6

I Saw Three Ships Come Sailing In—l - 2

Patapan—7

Break Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly Light—8

0 Little Town of Bethlehem—1 - 2 - 3 - 4

0 Leave Your Sheep, Ye Shepherds on the Hills—6

The First Nowell—1 - 2 - 4 - 5 - 6

It Came Upon the Midnight Clear—1 - 2 - 3 - 4

Lullaby of the Christ Child (under title “Entre 1e boeuf
et l’iine gris”)-——3

Away In a Manger—1 — 2 - 3

We Three Kings of Orient Are—1 - 2 - 3 - 4

Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella—2-3

O Come, All Ye Faithful—1 - 2 - 3 - 5 - 6

Song Collections

l—Treasure Chest of Christmas Songs and Carols.
Treasure Chest Publications, Inc., 303—4th Ave._.
New York City. 13¢

y
I

l
r

C

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 475

2——The Ditson Christmas Carol Book, by Norwood
Hinkle. Oliver Ditson Co., 1712 Chestnut St., Phila-
delphia, Pa. 50¢

3—Christmas Carols from Many Countries, by Satis N.
Coleman and Elin K. Jorgensen. G. Schirmer, Inc.,
3 -East 43rd St., New York City. 50¢

4—G01den Book of Favorite Songs. Hall & McCreai'y
Co., 434 South Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill. 20¢

S—Twice 55 Community Songs—The Brown Book. C.
C. Birchard and Co., 221 Columbus Ave., Boston,
Mass. 15¢

6—16 National Christmas Carols. E. C. Schirmer Music
Co., 221 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass. 40¢

7~erford Book of Carols. Oxford University Press,
114—5th Ave., New York City. $2.50

8—Avai1able from G. Schirmer, Inc., 3 East 43rd St.,
New York City. 10¢
The following are available from the National Rec-

reation Association:

“Christmas Carols” Word Sheet—80¢ per 100 copies.
Includes the words of ten carols.

“Christmas Music”—5¢
“Christmas Plays and Pageants with Music.”—Free in
single copies.

A Christmas Present to Decatur
(Continued from page 436)

Since the first production the Department has
added each year to the list of properties until now
there is invested a sum in the neighborhood of
$700. This equipment includes the portable build-
ings, electrical supplies, a public address system,
dolls, curtains, heating units and other necessities.
To install and maintain the buildings, purchase
new equipment and employ the staff necessary to
carry on the activities at the Village requires an
annual expenditure of approximately $800.

“Boystowns” For Cleveland Youth
(Continued from page 440)

each town draw up their city charter. The at—_

torneys explained court and parliamentary pro-
cedure to the law directors of each town. The
Boystown courts are conducted in the utmost
seriousness. Members of their juries are drawn
from citizens of the towns. The law director
prosecutes each case and the judge appoints an-
other boy to defend the accused.

One boy who persisted in smoking in the build—
ing after being warned that it was against the
rules was brought to trial. He was convicted and
the judge sentenced him to six weeks’ door sweep—
ing. The boy took his punishment without rancor
and told the youthful judge that he was going to
stop smoking altogether.

Cleveland believes that with the cooperation of

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles a
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

       

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, August 1939

“New Jersey Parks Increase Property Values”
“Archery Comes to Essex County” by L. C. Wilsey

“Checking Response to Recreation Programs” by
Samuel D. Marble

“Casting Pool Answer to Angler’s Prayer”

Journal of Health and Physical Education

“Interscholastic Athletic Standards for Boys.” A
committee report

“Noon Hour Coeducational Recreation” by Dudley
Ashton '

“A Tumbling Club Playday” by Lucy S. Proudfoot
“Folk Dance: An Expression of Culture” by Her-
mine Sauthoff

The Guardian, October 1939

“Play for the Modern Child”
“Fun with and for New Members”

PAMPHLETS

Children’s Book Week 1939
A manual of suggestions

Yearbook of the Association for Childhood Education,
1939, lNashington, D. C. $.25.

Cincinnati Municipal Activities 1938

Algiual Report of the City Manager, Cincinnati,
hi0

“Shall Our State Parks Be Self Supporting?”

Connecticut Forest and Park Association, New
Haven, Conn.

Annual Report 1938——Recreation Commission
Alton, Illinois

Annual Report 1938—Mott Foundation
Flint, Michigan

Annual Report 1938—Department of Recreation
Greenw1ch, Connecticut

Health Education Bulletin, March 1939
National Board, Y.W.C.A., New York City

Annual Report of the Playground Community Service
Commission 1938

New Orleans, Louisiana

Annual Report 1938-1939, Recreation Division, Community
Service Council Hastings-on-Hudson, New York

Annual Report 1938, Recreation Department
Superior, Wisconsin

Rural Youth by David Cushman Coyle
U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
1939

city officials and the general public, the plan of
self-government instituted by Boystown will play
an important part in introducing a new era in the
solution of juvenile crime.

476 THE SPIRIT OF JOSEPH LEE DA Y

The Spirit of Joseph Lee Day
(Continued from page 443)

whom he was leading by the hand) saw the house
beautiful not far ahead. . . . Greatheart went up
to the gate and knocked loudly. “The Pilgrims
will go in,” said Greatheart, “but I must return at
once to my master.” Then the little boy took him
by the hand and said, “Oh sir, won’t you go on
with us and help us ?” ’

“He has gone back through the darkness, but

his life will lead on. We shall ever have Joe Lee
as our guide in making this a better world for us

all, and especially for children.

“But what is needed above all in this movement
is more Greathearts, more laymen who will give
of their time and thought, of their effort and their
means, to provide recreation not only for children
but also for youth and the adult—lay leaders who
will themselves remain young till they die, ‘playful
up to the gates of death,’ versatile, resourceful,

and full of the joy of life as was Joseph Lee.”

After repeating the message of President Roose—
velt which was given last year on Joseph Lee Day,
Dr. Finley said, “This message, repeated in com-
ing years, should be accompanied by the beautiful
prayer in which thanks for his splendid life were
spoken at his funeral service at King’s Chapel in
Boston:

Let us thank God for Joseph Lee.

For his many years of life among us;

For his unselfish work to help others;

For his devotion to the life of all children;

For his faith that there is joy at the heart of things;

For his assurance that there is good in everyone;

For his persistence in expecting a nobler world;

For his generous purposes which were without guile;

For his delight in simple things;

For his imagination which bridged the gulfs of cir-
cumstance and creed;

For his counting himself no better than others, but
gathering up in himself the better thoughts of
many;

For his gentleness which made others feel greater;

For his continuing influence, and the things which
abide with us always—

we thank the God of Life and bless His Holy Name.

0 God, accept our thanksgiving for our beloved citi-
zen and for all of like spirit, in the name of Thy
son, Jesus Christ, who did lift up the weary and

set a little child in the midst of His disciples.
Amen.

 

Lighting for Night Tennis
(Continued from page 447)

ing the summer than in the winter months. Los
Angeles figures on 300 fair weather days. New

Orleans eXpects a larger number of participants
for night playing during the warm season when
nights are cool. Oakland reports that there are
few nights in the year when it is not possible to
play but that the largest play comes dUring sum-
mer months.

The Growth of Community Centers
on Cape Cod

(Continued from page 454)

cause they do not interest the children. All pro-
grams succeed when children demand them.

In the matter of physical equipment, our centers
on Cape Cod are not badly housed. At Hyannis,
we rent the Grange Hall from that organization
for $720 a year. In return we occuPy an entire
building that is reasonably well adapted to our
work. The main hall, which has a small stage,
has been lined off for badminton or volleyball.
At a boxing tournament recently we accommo-
dated I 50 people and a 14’ X 14’ boxing ring, and
were not overcrowded. This space supplies the
terrain for model railroads. On another floor we
have an office, arts and crafts room, shop, and
game room.

In Falmouth, Provincetown, and Osterville we
occupy space in the school buildings. Falmouth’s
Town Recreation Commission, like 0111‘ Council in
Hyannis, is a chartered corporation under state
law. Provincetown and Osterville have strong lay
committees. In Sandwich, the Catholic Church
has turned over its old parish house to the Sand-
wich Recreation Committee, so that they occupy
their own building. Of' these towns, three are the

largest on the Cape. It is evident that community ‘
centers are available to a large number of people. 3
But we have only begun. Eventually we shall '

impress the variOUs towns of the Cape that our
better-than-average social conditions can be

further improved by our work. The schools have
gone far in this direction. But for about one half

of every year, children are not in school (includ- '

ing extracurricular activities) nor are they asleep.
This is the rich ground recreation has to work.
On Cape Cod we have made definite progress.

A Nursery Grows Up

(Continued from page 456)

gym, pool and club rooms. The nursery has be-
come a community institution. Visitors come
from a wide area to observe and marvel at the
project which developed from almost nothing.
Both staff members agree that the success of the

 

CO—EDUCATION AND RECREATION IN THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER 477

Subscribe Now . . .
Don’t Miss a Single Issue . . . JUNIOR QRTS and ACTIUITIES

THE ONLY MONTHLY TEACHER'S MAGAZINE containing so much actual creative project material, activi-
ties and ideas for integrated classwork in the elementary grades! Now ranks among the best liked, most
useful and helpful magazines published in the interest of the teacher and pupil.

BRIMFUL OF MATERIAL TO HELP YOU IN YOUR WORK. JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES makes your work
easier, your pupils happier and their work more interesting. Intensely practical! Unequaled in amount of
usable project material in each issue. Created through collaboration of teachers and supervisors on the
firing line.

NEW . . . UP-TO-DATE . . . RELIABLE . . . USABLE . . . Every issue is brimful of full page (9in.x12 in.)
drawings, instructions and ideas for all types of required work. No teacher can afford to be without this

educational material to correlate with regular class studies. An essential to successful and happy teach-
ing. Teachers say, “It’s an inspiration.”

I0 THRILLING ISSUES CONTAINING MATERIAL
THAT MEETS YOUR NEEDS

Indutries
History
Geography
Seatwork

Creative Art
Decorations, Crafts
Social Studies

Units, Activities
Pictorial Maps

Health & Safety

Dioramas, Posters Constructive Work
Foreign Countries Book Reviews

Practical Suggestions, Ideas and Articles by Teachers

10 BIG NUMBERS only $2

No Money Down

Order today! When the big November issue arrives. examine it carefully.
page by page. If you are not entirely satisfied you may cancel your subscrip-

tion by notifying us within l0 days. YOU BE THE JUDGE.

Pay Later

JUNIOR ARTS 6ND HCTIUITIES

740 Rush Street

i

little experiment has surpassed their most rosy
dreams, and all connected with the nursery be-
lieve that in community benefits it has been well
worth the struggle to establish it.

Co-Education and Recreation
in the

Jewish Community Center
(Continued from page 459)

room for adult women’s groups, and Usually a
lseparate locker room equipped with dressing
booths, showers and hair dryers. In the larger
buildings a separate gymnasium is provided. Other-

IWlSC women and girls alternate in the use of the
main gymnasium and pool.

 

 

Separate provision for men consists of billiard
rooms, quiet game room, men’s lounge, separate
locker and shower rooms, exercise rooms, hand-
ball and squash courts. The athletic facilities are
lso arranged that men can use their locker room,
‘tshowers, health club, exercise rooms and hand-

ball courts at all times, without interfering with
'the use of the main gymnasium and pool by
women and girls, or by classes of younger boys.

 

 

Chicago. Illinois

 

It will be noted that dormitories are not a
feature of the typical Jewish Center. Only four
organizations make such provision, three for men
and one for women. The experiment of accom-
modating men and women in one building has not
been tried, though some Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.
buildings have, I believe, demonstrated its feasi—
bility. '

Aside from the fact that a well planned and
equipped building can adequately serve the needs
of both sexes, there is an obvious economy in the
cost of building and maintaining one structure
that can meet the requirements of all age groups
of both sexes.

Leadership

The conduct of a co-educational program has
implications in connection with the selection and
duties of professional personnel. Men and women
serve on the staff on the basis of qualifications for
the duties to be performed and the special needs
of the groups in the membership. Except in Cen-
ters in small communities, where the resources
and clientele are limited, the professional staff in-
cludes at least one woman. Since so much of the
contact of professional workers and membership

478 UNDER THE HARVEST MOON

is on an individual basis, it is recognized that the
services of a woman, generally known as Director
of Women’s Work, are necessary in dealing with
the personal problems of women and girls and in
planning special activities for them. Gymnasium
classes for women are customarily in charge of
a woman physical training teacher. Practice in
the direction of swimming groups varies. Often
the women prefer a male instructor. Frequently
junior activities for boys and girls are in charge
of a woman. Sometimes social activities and 'the
supervision of dramatics and music are assigned
to women workers. The librarian is usually a
woman, trained for the work. Women are em-
ployed in day camps and, of course, in country
camps for girls and for young mixed groups.
Leaders of clubs are of both sexes, usually de-
pending Upon the sex of the club members. Al-
though the trend is towards employment of a
professional staff, except for special needs of
women, without reference to sex, but solely on
the basis of qualifications, there are limitations
which thus far have restricted professional oppor-
tunities for women in Jewish Center work. The
executive head of a Center is almost always a
man, partly because of the arduous nature of his
administrative duties, but for other reasons as
well. The board of directors, as has been previ-
ously observed is still predominantly masculine in
composition and this is true also of other important
communal groups with which the executive has
relationships as the representative of the Center.
They prefer to deal with a man. The member-
ship of adults and seniors is largely male and
they naturally prefer an executive to whom they
can talk freely and in whose understanding and
authority they have full confidence. Since the
staff, by reason of the nature of the work, is
largely composed of men, it appears natural that
their chief be one of their own sex. The execu-
tive of a Center has long hours, including evening
work, that would be taxing on the physical capa—
cities of a woman and deprive her of normal social
life. These are practical considerations and to
that extent affect the policy of employment of
women solely on the basis of qualifications for
executive positions in the Center.

Under the Harvest Moon
(Continued from page 463)

Gobble. A speaker is to give a speech on
Thanksgiving, using all the barnyard animals in
it. Each player chooses the name of some animal,
and when the speaker raises her right hand, every

one immediately imitates the animal chosen; when
she raises her left hand, all keep silent; and when
she raises both hands, they imitate a turkey’s
“Gobble, gobble 1” All calls are continued until the

_speaker lowers her arm.

Remnant Stakes. Divide the guests into two
groups, and give each person in one group a piece
of colored material. Give the other group en-
velopes containing corresponding material. At a
given signal, the group with the envelopes rush
toward the other group, match their materials and
return with their partners to a winning post. Of
course there should be many shades of the same
material, so that the matching may not be so easy.

Turkey Walk. This is a relay race with about
ten players on each team. When the leader says
“Go,” the first person on each team starts out
crossing left foot in back of right, then right foot
in back of left, and so on, progressing about four
inches forward on each step. They continue in
this manner until they reach a goal line, then run
back, touching the next person in line who does
the same thing.

Thanksgiving Spelling Game. Players or groups
of players unscramble these jumbled words. The
one with the most correct in a given time wins.

Word . Key
1. reykut 1. turkey
2. thylopum 2. Plymouth
3. lapirlcis 3. Priscilla
4. sircarbeern 4. cranberries
5. wamelofry 5. Mayflower
6. hivistganngk 6. Thanksgiving
7. mippekipun 7. pumpkin pie
8. gismripl 8. Pilgrims
9. dinnias 9. Indians

10. peattos 10. potatoes

11. sunt ll. nuts

12. Miles Standish

Think Fast. Give each player a sheet of paper
upon which has been written the word “Thanks-
giving” along the left side of the paper, one letter, ;
written beneath the other. On the right side of -
the paper the same word should be written, but
with the first letter at the bottom. The letter T “I
will be opposite the letter G, the letter H opposite :
the letter N, and so on. The participants are in- .
formed they will be given just three minutes in i
which to write a word between these letters, be- r!
ginning with the letter on the left and ending with l1
the letter on the right. For instance, the first word l.
might be TryinG, the second HeleN. The player i"
who finishes first is entitled to a prize which can
be some little article significant of Thanksgiving
time.

12 damsselnitish

l
l
l
l
g
l

i
l

_l
l

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Cowboy Dances

By Lloyd Shaw. The
Idaho. $3.50.

FOR YEARS Lloyd Shaw has collected and taught cowboy
dances, and with his Cheyenne Mountain dancers has
demonstrated them from Coast to Coast. There are sev-
enty-five dances described in this volume, with complete
calls and explanations, each illustrated with photograph
and diagram.

Caxton Printers, Caldwell,

Romance of the National Parks

By Harlean James. Macmillan Company, New York.

$3.00.

OF THE MORE THAN sixteen and a quarter million per-
sons who visited the various units of the Federal
Park System in 1938, almost seven million passed through
the gateways of the national parks. Miss James tells the
fascinating story of the deve10pment of these natural
wonderlands which each year attract more people. She
has devoted the first part to giving the historical “back-
ground of the parks. The second section, profusely il-
lustrated with photographs—and there are more than 120
of them in the book—is appropriately entitled “Journeys.”
Here will be found imaginary travels through the parks
so arranged as to be helpful to those who may wish to
visit several of them on a single summer trip. Person-
alities associated with national park development, among

them Stephen Mather, John Muir, HoraceiM. Albright
and others, receive appreciative mention.

Creative Play

By Ivah Deering. Emerson Books, New York. $2.00.
THIS BOOK was first published in 1930 under the title,

The Creative Home. The continued demand for it
has necessitated a new edition. There has, however, been
no change in the content since the material is pertinent
to any period and is essentially scientific in its approach.
The book, designed primarily for parents of young chil-
dren, is based on the author’s own experience. As
Joseph Lee said in his introduction: “It tells what so
many parents want to know, with a combination of de-
tailed advice as to just what to do, with true insight as
to how to do it-—and, above all, how not to do it.”

Modern Basketball

By Lon W. Jourdet and Kenneth A. Hashagen. W. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia. $2.25. ‘

N THIS BOOK two former intercollegiate basketball play-

ers, both of whom are now basketball coaches, have set
down the fundamental techniques of the game in clear,
easily understood language. They have covered practi-
cally all the details which will prove useful to coaches of
college or high school teams, or to any group interested
in Playing the sport. Throughout the text excellent use
has been made of diagrams and action photographs to
illustrate the plays described. The appendix contains
thirty-six different drills with specific guidance on out-
standing scoring plays.

Bird Houses—How to Make and
Where to Place Them

By Edmund J. Sawyer. Cranbrook Institute of Science.
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. $.20.

OF THE UNDERTAKING of this practical booklet with its

many illustrations and diagrams, Mr. Sawyer says,
“The providing of suitable bird-houses needs no defense
or excuse. Whether it be the beautiful and demure blue-
bird, the bustling and industrious chick-a-dee, or the
alert and pompous flycatcher, the native tenant of the
bird-house will be a good and interesting and entertain-
ing neighbor, always prompt to pay his rent in one form
or another, or in many forms and with interest. Does

one need any special excuse for offering hospitality to
such a neighbor?”

Uses for Waste Materials

Compiled lby the Committee on Equipment and Supplies.
The Association for Childhood Education, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. $.20.

RECREATION WORKERS, continually on the hunt for hand-

craft projects in which waste materials may be used,
will find many practical suggestions in this pamphlet.
The bulletin is presented, says the committee in its fore-
word, “not with the idea that anything mentioned herein
is to be substituted for more desirable media of use and
expression, but rather as supplementary material which
has educative value and which provides opportunities for
experimentation and challenges ingenuity, particularly
when other means are limited.”

Selected List of Ten-Cent Books

Prepared by Mary Lincoln Morse. Revised by Alice
Temple. Association for Childhood Education, 1201
Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. $.15.

MODERN TIMES and reduced budgets have resulted in

the publishing of ten-cent books with recognized
standards rapidly being incorporated as to what makes a
book good in content, in approach, in form and illustra-
tion. Today parents of limited means and teachers with
a need for variety of good classroom books may both
seek and fin-d them in ten-cent editions. In the list pre-
sented by the Literature Committee 'books have been in-
cluded that are accurate and authentic as to fact and
also those with story, verse, and picture value. The list
has been classified to facilitate its use.

Government and the Arts

By Grace Overmyer. W. W. Norton and Company, Inc.,
New York. $3.00.

INCE THE ESTABLISHMENT of the Federal Arts Proj-
ects, WPA, and particularly since a fine arts *bill has
become a matter Of wide public interest, the question of
the extent to which the government should give encour-
agement to the fine arts has been much discussed. Pro-
ponents of the plan and those who Oppose it have had
little on which to base their information since compre-
hensive data on the subject have been lacking. This book

479

480 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

has been compiled to present facts regarding the history,
plan of organization, financing, and Operation of systems
used for the official support Of art and artists. There are
two parts, the first of which deals with state aid in more
than fifty foreign countries. The second section, de-
voted to the United States, presents important facts con-
cerning art institutions and activities sponsored by na-
tional or local governments, and art legislation, past and

present.

The World of Plant Life.

By Clarence J. Hylander, Ph. D. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $7.50.

Plants have their own design for living, and a thrilling
one it is as outlined in this popularized botany. In a
volume of over seven hundred pages Mr. Hylander dis-
cusses and classifies the native and naturalized plants
found throughout the United States from bacteria to
orchids. In all, 2,000 species are described in detail.
There are over 400 plant photographs and line drawings.
So inclusive is the book that it will be appreciated by
amateurs, students, and experienced botanists alike.

Teaching Wholesome Living in the
Elementary School.

By Alma A. Dobbs, M. A. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

This book is based on the fundamental premise that
children should be encouraged and taught to grow in all
ways. It has been demonstrated that physical growth and
the fullest development of the child are best attained
under conditions Of security, love, contented work, and
happy play, through all Of which the child builds a happy
personality. In Part One the author discusses the point
of view as regards principles of growth and fostering
child growth. Part Two takes up the question Of the
curriculum, and Part Three outlines specific phases de-
scribing the common life activities of the child with ref-
erence to the determination Of the quality Of living.

Health and Physical Education
Class and Record Book.

Prepared by Hugh Fischer. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $.75.

Record keeping can be an arduous part of the daily
routine. This book, prepared for the teacher of health
and physical education, is designed to facilitate the keep-
ing of records and to make them more readily accessible.

The Garden Encyclopedia.

Edited by E. L. D. Seymour, B.S.A. William H.
Wise & Company, New York. $4.00.

“A single, all-purpose volume for real dirt gardeners,”
said the New York Herald Tribune in its review of this
volume which answers in simple, nontechnical language
the many questions which are bound to arise when you
adopt gardening as your hobby. There are 1,300 pages
with 750 pictures and diagrams.

Motion Pictures in Physical Education.

By Thurston Adams, Ed.D. Bureau.of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University. $.90.

Motion pictures are now being used in almost every
field of activity. They have for some time played an ex-
ceedingly valuable part in the training of athletes, par-
ticularly in football, track and field, baseball, swimming,
and diving. This booklet discusses in detail the function
of the motion picture in physical education, production
and use of the experimental films, and the equipment
needed for taking and projecting motion pictures. In-
formation regarding the use of motion pictures is given.

100 Games of Solitaire.

By Helen L. Coops. Whitman Publishing Company,
Racine, Wisconsin. $.10.

Directions for play are given briefiy and simply, and
there are complete layouts for playing in this inexpensive
booklet which contains a hundred popular games of Soli-
taire and seventy-five well-known variations of these
games.

Motion Pictures in Sports.

Compiled by Elaine M. Dear, Louise S. Kjellstrom
and Jenny E. Turnbull. National Education Asso—
ciation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington,
D. C. $.25.

This selected and carefully annotated bibliography and
film list, presented by the Motion Picture Committee of
the National Section on Women’s Athletics of the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical Education, and
Recreation, has been prepared as a means of familiariz-
ing administrators and teachers of physical education
with the place Of the motion picture as an integral part
of the teaching program. Much of it will be of interest
to recreation workers as well, particularly the directory
of commercial and educational film services and the list
of films available on various phases of sports for enter-
tainment and instruction.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, TreaSurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL. Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

