What Is Recreation?

E THINK of play and recreation activities as those which
men and women and children engage in because of inner
desire and not because of any outer compulsion. The

same activity may at one time be recreation and at another time
not, and there are, of course, all degrees of recreation values.
Of course recreation fades into education, into religion, into
work. Man is after all an integrated human being and he does
not try to separate his activities into compartments. Recreation
has the greatest value when it creates the spirit in the human
life which permeates all the waking hours and to some extent
all the sleeping hours as well.~ In other'words, we like to have
a play spirit created which is the spirit of vital living which
makes all that the human being does more thoroughly worth

while.

Of course contact with nature is a very vital part of any
recreation program. The handcraft activities, the making of
beautiful things, art in all forms, music, drama, as well as
athletics, games, social recreation, are a vital part of the joyous
human recreation activities from which human beings can
choose according to their individual desires.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

MARCH I939

 

641

Courtesy Cleveland Metropolitan Park District

SPRING AT HINCKLEY LAKE

 

The Traditional
in

Recreation

By

SARAH GERTRUDE KNOTT
Founder and Director
National Folk Festival

"Few nations. it any, have as many
living folk expressions as we have
in the United States. and none of
them has the great variety which
the different racial groups give
to our country. A nation with a
great folk art deserves a great
classic art built on those roots."

NEW CIVILIZATION has beaten its way into the
A once peaceful, isolated communities of our

country, destroying much of our rich tradi-
tional heritages, before we as a nation have be-
come conscious of it. Five years ago the National
Folk Festival came into being in St. Louis, bring—
ing together representative groups from fourteen
states, with the folk songs, music and dances
handed down traditionally by people from the dif-
ferent sections of the country. Its objective was
to call attention to the amazingly rich variety of
our folk expressions and encourage continued
participation by giving opportunity to the people
who have it in their hearts to sing and dance and
play for the sheer joy of it.

Since that time annual National Folk Festivals
have been held in Chattanooga, Dallas, Chicago and
\Vashington. In many communities throughout
the country the liddlers are now taking down their
fiddles to “resin up the bows,” and dance and
play-party groups are stepping to the old tunes,
singing again the old ballads, and getting ready

 

Anthracite coal miners had a part in the Penn-
sylvania Folk Festival at Bucknell University

for the annual pilgrimage to the National Folk
Festival which will again be held in the nation’s
capital, April 27, 28 and 29, under the sponsor-
ship of the Washington Post Folk Festival Asso-
ciation, through the interest of ‘Mr. and Mrs.
Eugene Meyer of Washington.

Local Folk Festivals

Through the incentive of the national festival,
preliminary state and community festivals have
sprung up in the last few years in Missouri, Ar-
kansas, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Delaware,
Maryland, West Virginia, Tennessee, Pennsyl-
vania and Ohio, from which the best representa-
tive groups of the different regions have been sent
to the national festival each year. Throughout the
year festivals have been held through the coopera-
tion of the National Folk Festival under the

643

644 THE TRADITIONAL IN RECREATION

direction of leaders in the state, giving many
people a much needed cultural leisure time ac-
tivity. Twenty-seven states sent their representa-
tives to Washington for the last festival, with the
songs, music and dances used around home fires
or in community gatherings.

We Are Still Pioneering

These traditional expressions play an important
part in the lives of our people today as they did
in the lives of our pioneer forefathers during the
early Colonization days. We are pioneering in
many respects again today, searching for new and
better ways of life in a civilization much more
complex than our fathers found here. We need a
song, as they did. It is said, “Man cannot live by
bread alone.” The “staff of life” is not enough.
There must be beauty and something to challenge
the imagination to lift us
from the dull prosaic sur-
roundings of everyday life,
something in which the peo-
ple themselves can have a
part. Mankind has always
had an urge for self—expres-
sion of one kind or another.
Dance, drama, music and
other arts, classic or folk,
have been the creative ex-
pressions that have come
down to us throughout the
ages, showing how people in other days have felt;
what they have dreamed ; what they have wanted;
what they failed to get. History has recorded
facts, but the finer sensibilities of man, his inner
emotions, have been recorded only in some form
of artistic creation.

We sit on the side lines and hear great sym-
phonies play the works of old masters. We hear
eminent concert artists performing with finesse
and see impressive dramas unfold before us by
actors who know the art. But this is one of the
“golden ages” when the people are not satisfied to
sit and listen. They too must play a part. Folk
songs, music and dances made by unknown and
unsung creators, used by the folk trained only by
tradition, fit admirably into the need of the
present and furnish one of the finest types of
recreation because of their universal appeal. They
serve as a recreational source—and how much
more! They reflect, as nothing else could, life as
it has been lived here in all its varied moods and
must be the basis for future creative endeavor.

Miss Knottl Founder and Director of the
National Folk Festival. and in charge of
the courses in American Folk Expressions
given each summer at Washington Univer-
sity. St. Louisl expresses the hopes that
recreation workers will bring to her at-
tention folk groups who might be inter-
ested in participating in the forthcom-
ing festival at Washington. Miss Knott
may be addressed in care of the Washing-
ton Post Folk Festival Associationl I337-
43 E Street Northwest' Washington' D. C.

America is a young nation. Our literature has
not been written. It has just been begun. The
pictures with the coloring of America have not
been painted. They, too, are in the making. We
have merely glimpsed the possibilities in the great
music to come from the employment of America’s
distinctive rhythms in composition. When our
national art is created, if we run true to the his-
tory of other nations and ages, much of it will no
doubt be based on the folk songs, music and
dances which express the inherent characteristics
and heart-throbs of our people.

An Age of Transition

But conditions of life are rapidly changing as
civilization marches onward. We do not know
what the record of tomorrow will show. We do
know, however, that this is a significant age of
transition, one in which we
see the last generation of
old Indians whose memo—
ries carry them back to the
time when the War Dance
and Indian ceremonials had
genuine significance to In-
dian life, when their rich
store of legends and tradi-
tions were handed down
orally from one generation
to another. While, in the
case of the remaining
pueblos of the Southwest, time has touched
lightly and changed little ceremonial customs and
traditions, the Indians who live outside the pueb-
los have taken on the white man’s ways, in many
instances, and are forgetting the traditions of
their great mystic race.

We have today the last generation of old “be-
fore—the-mast” sailors who used the sea chantey
as the work-song of the sea. It is the last genera-
tion for the lumberjacks who had a part in mak-
ing the lumberjack songs and legends during the
golden age of lumbering in the great north woods.
The Anglo-Saxon ballad singers, fiddlers and
square dancers who, until a few years ago lived in
isolation in their cabin homes, during the recent
“war scare” were connected with faraway Eng—
land by radio. Strange new music has been
brought into the mountains which until recently
knew only the traditional. Good roads, winding
their ways up hill and down into the valleys, have
taken the place of the mountain paths so recently
traveled only by foot or on mules, as the fiddlers

THE TRADITIONAL IN RECREATION . 645

or dancers from the communities found their way
from one mountain cabin to another for the Sat-
urday night square dance, where the people, cut
off from the world, made their own recreation.

Now the people can come from one corner of
our nation to the other to the National Folk Fes-
tival with almost as much ease as when they went
only from one community to another in the old
days. No longer do we have the isolation that kept
our traditional expressions in their purest form
or gave incentive to the creation of the folk song,
music or dance. So if the surviving traditional
expressions which have gone into the making of
our nation are to be continued, a more conscious
attitude toward them must be taken by the people
themselves, as well as by educators and recrea-
tional leaders.

Today anthropologists, ethnologists, sociologists
and other specialists are making intensive studies
of the folkways of various peoples of the world
in the hope of arriving at a better understanding
not merely of specific groups but of the human
race in general. No doubt students of the future
will look back to our own time and find, in the
folk expressions surviving now in the United
States, a light upon our racial heritages, our social
life and conditions. Perhaps they will find them
characteristic of this age as other folk expressions
were of preceding epochs. The chances are that
the expressions growing up in our country today
will be found in the records of tomorrow when
the popular songs and fashionable dances of the
moment, not con-
nected with the
folk life will have
go n e with th e
wind.

Early Traditions
'Must Be Pre-
served

Collectors have
for a number of

A square dance and
singing game group
from Tennessee tak-
ing an enthusiastic

part in the Fifth An-
nual Folk Festival

held last year in
Washington. D. C.

years been energetically recording the folk songs,
music and dances, believing that with the passing
of a few generations many of the early traditions
will be gone. While it is important to preserve
them in black and white as a future record of the
early and later social life in America, that is not
enough. Their importance in today’s picture
should be emphasized now. Recording them saves
them from history but fails to pass on the vital
spark which oral transmission gives. While many
of these traditions are passing, since new condi-
tions make new customs necessary, many with
their roots in the remote past have a place in the
present as the “living past” and should be pro-
jected into the future. Both the old expressions
and the ones being made today have a place in our
American social, cultural and recreational life.
Some of these expressions will be passed on
from one generation to another whether anything
is done about it or not; others need stimulation.
If our leaders in education and recreation have
sufficient vision, while this material is still a living
force, there is no reason why there should not be
a transition from the unconscious traditional art
to a more conscious one, keeping the sincere hon-
esty and simplicity of expressions that character-
izes the folk. Much can be done to make the ma—
terial live longer in its original form if the people
who know it are encouraged to use it. For with
the radio, picture shows and other new methods
of recreation within easy reach of all, many of the
forms that served an older, simpler America, will

 

646 THE TRADITIONAL IN RECREATION

pass unnoticed from the scene
unless stimulation is given to
- those who carry in their hearts
these fine traditions. A more
abundant life will be given to
those who do not have this
heritage if information is disseminated and en-
couragement given so that these expressions will
be more generally used.

Leadership Needed

Intelligent leadership is necessary if the use
of the traditional in the future is to be really
significant. Such leadership is often found among
the groups themselves, in people who are steeped
in the traditions. On the other hand, recreation
leaders who do not have the heritage can do much
by familiarizing themselves with the expressions
which are likely to be right around them, and by
going further into research in the various fields
already pioneered by collectors whose works can
be found in every library. Both the trained and
untrained leader should include either genuine
survivals or sincere revivals. To be able to dis-
tinguish between the real folk songs, music and
dances, and the popular ones, is the first of several
problems that confronts the leader.

To meet the need of teachers and leaders who
want to make use of the folk songs, music and
dances in their work, the English Department of
Washington University, St. Louis, has put into
its summer session a course on The American
Folk Expressions, giving a general background of
the expressions found in the various communi-
ties in the country, and practical suggestions as
to their use in educational work. We find a great
enthusiasm among those taking the course, as they
are made more conscious of the color and vitality
in our national folk life and feel new interest and
possibilities in the expressions they had not seen
in their own communities.

World-Wide Recognition of the Value of
Folk Lore

People of every nation have, at one time or an-
other, seen the value of folk
songs, music and dances to na-
tional life. Often, however,
they have failed to recognize
their worth until it is too late.
In the past few years many
European nations have been
interested in encouraging sur-
vival of folk songs, music and

"That which is a product of our racial
life should not be blown away with
the changing environment. but should
remain to enrich the soil from which
it sprang."—Howatd Odum.

"With life changing to meet modern
living conditions. a new attitude to-
ward folk music and dances had to be
developed if they were to survive. . .
The folk songs. music and dances of
old world origin give us a richness and
cultural background. The newer ones
add vitality and the color of a new
country." —Satab Gertrude Knott.

dances where they are dying
out, or, if they have altogether
passed from the scene, efforts
to revive them have been
started Three years ago, eight-
een European nations came to- r
gether for the first International Folk Dance

Festival in London. England has had for a num-
ber of years its English Folk Dance Societies;
Russia and Germany have their folk-movements
encouraging the revival of traditional folk songs,
music and dances, as well as developing their own
of today, giving to people a fine activity and form
of expression that makes them happier; Ireland
has its Folk Tale Association; Hungary, its Na-
tional Festival; France its Folk-Museum. Bolivia
and other nations have movements which are defi-
nitely tied into national life. Leaders in these
nations recognize the cultural leisure time activity
value in national and international folk move—
ments, because they give better international un-
derstanding among nations and create more sym-
pathy among varied racial groups living in one
nation. Such associations give a basis for com-
parative study and meet a very real need in the
social life of today.

America should profit by the experience of
older nations. We should not let our folk heri-
tages pass without recognition. We hope that the
National Folk Festival is making a contribution
in awakening interest in these treasures that lie
just beneath the surface of our somewhat monot-
onous American life. We have our varied racial
groups who live side by side with their distinctive
folk cultures which have poured into our country
from many lands. Unlike the European nations in
the International Folk Dance Festival, we are
bound together by common language and laws.
Our Old World traditions transplanted here give
richness to our folk life, while the newer expres—
sions which have grown up from our own soil,
expressing the conditions of life under which our
people have lived here, add the vitality of a new
nation whose folk songs, music and dances are
still in the making.

If we as a nation, rich in
Old World heritages and in the
freshness of our New World
creations, can fully appreciate
the possibilities; if all cultural-
recreational associations in the
country will move forward

(Continued on page 680)

The Parks oi Metropolitan Cleveland

Public approval ol: the conserva-
tion oi natural beauty spots and
tar-sighted planning on the part
ol: park officials have resulted
in this outstanding development

OR THE PAST eighteen years

William A. Stinchcomb has

been superintendent of the
Cleveland, Ohio, Metropolitan
Park System, one of the out-
standing examples of metr0p01i~
tan park development in the
country.

It was in 1901 that Mr. Stinch-
comb hrst received public recog-
nition for his abilities. At that
time he was appointed assistant
city engineer of Cleveland; live
years later he became city park
superintendent. In his report to
the Mayor the next year he stress-
ed the importance of securing
reservations and properties out-
side the city limits, and he drew
up a county park law which was
passed by the legislature in 1909
permitting such purchases. N0
plan for financing was included,
but it was provided that the
County Commission might make
an appropriation.

In 1912 Mr. Stinchcomb was
elected county engineer, and
$40,000 was appr0priated by the
county for a survey and plan of
a regional park. The Park Com-
mission made him its consultant
and planner, and specified that
the money appropriated was to be
expended under his direction.
When as county surveyor 0f

 

Cuyahoga County Mr. Stinchcomb consented to
act in the capacity of consulting engineer of the
Metropolitan Park Board, the following statement
was made:

“Mr. Stinchcomb has made a life-long study of
parks and park development in the district, and
combines not only the practical knowledge, but
the vision that is required for the work upon
which the board is engaged.

WILLIAM A. STINCHCOMB

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

647

648 THE PARKS OF METROPOLITAN CLEVELAND

“He is thoroughly familiar with the entire ef-
fort to establish these park areas from the time
of the original agitation, several years before the
board was created. He has been of immense help
in the initial stages of the work, both in his pro-
fessional capacity as engineer and in his ability to
favorably interest the individual property owners
to be affected.”

In 1915 a suit was brought questioning the le-
gality of the county park board and its appoint—
ment by the county courts, and the next year the
law was changed to provide for a Metropolitan
Park District and Park
Board as now constituted.

Elected city engineer

Glimpses of natural beauty. undisturbed and
"unimproved." are to be had in all the areas
of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District

 

four times, Mr. Stinchcomb was made Superin-
tendent of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park Sys-
tem in 1921, a position in which he has served
ever since.

Recreational and Cultural Opportunities

The Cleveland Metropolitan Park District is
one of the finest examples of regional park areas,
containing as it does 10,000 acres and some of the
most beautiful scenery in the region. It offers
outstanding recreational, educational, and cultural
opportunities to the people coming to the parks.
Special emphasis is laid on
nature education. Through

(Continued on page 681)

Courtesy Cleveland Metropolitan Park District

Planning a Community Recreation Building

ERTAIN ELEMENTS are
C important in determin-

ing the success of a com-
munity recreation building:
1. Proper location; 2. Func-
tional design; 3. Intelligent
leadership, and 4. Adequate
maintenance.

The neglect of any one of
these four factors may lower
seriously the operating effi-
ciency of the community rec-
reation building. Each one deserves equal consid—
eration and attention in the planning of the
building. It is, however, the lield of functional
design which taxes the ingenuity and imagination
of the planner. This is due to the fact that prob-
lems of leadership and operation are so closely
related to the physical layout of the building.

Every part of a building—room, corridor, stair-
way, i’ixture—has a specilic function to perform.
The size, form and arrangement of these elements
for the most economic and efficient use is func-
tional design. It is an essential architectural prob-
lem, yet it must take into consideration the broad
concept of recreation with all its related problems
—leadership, programming, budgeting, mainte-
nance. The principle of multiple use is an integral
part of functional design. Multiple use is the
adaptation of a facility to several purposes, made
necessary because of the varying requirements of
the activities to be carried on. For example, a
room designed for club activities may be adapted
for use as a dressing room for dramatic produc-
tions. A room may serve as a club room at one
time, a craft room at another, and a game or
music room on still another occasion. A gym—
nasium. is sometimes combined with an audi-
torium. There are, however, certain specialized
facilities, such as bowling alleys, swimming pools,
rier ranges, or billiard rooms, that cannot be
adapted to other uses than the particular one for
which they were designed.

In the detailed planning of the community rec-
reation building it is desirable to employ an archi-
tect who' has had wide experience in this spe-
cialized field. Regardless of his experience,
however, the architect should in any case collabo-
rate with a recreation specialist in the formula-

By P. ELLWOOD ALLEN
National Recreation Association

The purpose of this article is to point
out some of the important principles and
features involved in the planning of a
community recreation building. It is as-
sumed that before any attempt at actual
planning is made. a careful study of local
conditions will be conducted and the
real need for a building established.

tion and preparation of the
plans.

The Site

The community recreation
building can be located on a
site acquired for its exclusive
use; on land adjacent to or a
part of an existing play area;
or on land acquired for the
development of a new recrea-
tion center with indoor and
outdoor facilities. In the latter case the building
becomes the architectural feature and the center
of administrative control of the area. It also serves
the dual role of “field house” for outside activities
as well as supplying facilities for a diversified
indoor program.

Before the land is purchased the building should
be carefully thought through and an estimate made
of .the approximate size and type of facilities to
be provided. It is axiomatic that the building
should be designed to fit the site, but it is equally
essential that the site should be of sufficient size
to meet all the requirements of the building. A site
too small will prevent circulation of air, the pro-
per architectural setting of the building, and will
exclude valuable natural light. Accessibility is one
important factor in selecting the site. Unless peo-
ple can reach the building easily it will lose much
of its value. It is generally conceded that the
building should be located as near the center of
the area to be served as possible. Other influencing
factors are: trends in the growth of the neigh-
borhood, main thoroughfares and trafi’ic condi-
tions, location of railroads, zoning, and the price
of the land.

Planning the Building

The following are considered desirable features
in a community recreation building:

A gymnasium with locker, shower, and dressing
room facilities

An auditorium with stage

Rooms for games, club activities, and arts and

crafts
Kitchen
Lobby, lounge and office

649

650 PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING

Other service features: toilets, checking and
heating facilities, fuel and storage rooms,
janitor’s supply room and storage.

The Gymnasium

In planning a gymnasium for a community
recreation building it should be remembered that
the activities will be of a different nature than
those of the school gymnasium. The emphasis
will be placed largely on group activities and
games. These activities do not require elaborate
apparatus such as vaulting bucks, parallel bars,
traveling rings, pulley weights, and other gymnas-
tic equipment. There may be some communities,
however, where interest in gymnastics is so pro-
nounced that some such apparatus will be neces-
sary. The gymnasium should be designed for the
type of activities for which it will be used, such
as basketball, indoor baseball, paddle tennis, hand-
ball, badminton, volley ball, dancing, wrestling,
boxing, and social games and activities. It should
be of sufficient size to meet these various game
requirements. A floor space of 50 x90 feet, with
a ceiling height of 20 feet, may be considered a
desirable standard, although a smaller space may
serve. A basketball court is usually considered the
criterion for determining the minimum size of the
gymnasium floor. A minimum distance of three
feet free of all obstructions should be allowed
outside of the boundary line. Minimum dimen-
sions for a basketball court are 60 feet in length
and 35 feet in width.

It is usually advisable, in connection with the
various activities in the gymnasium, to provide
some seating facilities for spectators in the form
of portable bleachers. In estimating floor space
requirements, nineteen to twenty inches should be
added for each row of seats. There are a number
of types of folding and collapsible bleachers de-
signed especially for gymnasiums. The accordion,
or telescopic, recessed type of bleachers are ex-
ceedingly popular because they are simple and
quick to operate and take up little space. When
not in use they fold back, forming a smooth wall
around the gymnasium. It is always wise to in-
stall a type that can be set Up with a minimum of
labor. A balcony is sometimes introduced on one
side of the gymnasium equipped with permanent
seats on a sloping floor.

In a gymnasium, safety demands smooth walls,
free from all projections. This means that radia-
tors, piping, and ventilating apparatus should be
recessed and screened. Impervious glazed brick or

tile is considered desirable for wall construcuon.
Glass brick has many possibilities although it is
still in the experimental stage. If the gymnasium
is to be combined with an auditorium, soft brick
should be used to absorb sound. Certain sections
of the wall can be smooth for handball, tennis
serves, and .similar activities. Plaster should never
be used on the wall of a gymnasium.

The floor of the gymnasium deserves careful
consideration. It should be durable, resilient, easy
to keep clean, and non—slippery. If the floor
boards are narrow and laid parallel to the short
axis of the room, the joints and grain of the wood
help to prevent slipping. Hard maple, 1% inches
wide, tongued and grooved, laid on felt fastened
to a sub-floor of hard pine which is laid diagon-
ally, makes an excellent floor. The layer of felt
increases resilience and reduces noise.

The maximum amount of sunlight and fresh air
should be sought in the design of the gymnasium.
This necessitates locating the gymnasium on or
above the ground floor. Where the building is
used in connection with an outdoor area, it is de-
sirable to locate the gymnasium on the ground
floor so that the adjacent locker and shower fa-
cilities will be easily accessible from outside. Win-
dows of adequate size should be on at least two
opposite sides for proper cross ventilation. When-
ever possible, they should be brought down to the
floor. Skylights on the roof have not proven
satisfactory.

Sometimes folding doors are introduced to di-
vide the gymnasium into separate areas. The
doors are usually hung on tracks and operated
either mechanically or manually. It must be re-
membered, however, that it is difficult to make
folding doors soundproof and that they are also
expensive to install.

Locker and dressing rooms. showers and toilets.
Lockers, dressing rooms, showers and toilets
should be provided for each sex, the size, type
and equipment in proportion to the approximated
average use. It is rarely advisable to plan for
capacity use-of the gymnasium, because of the
high initial cost of installation, space requirements,
and the problem of maintenance. Here again the
situation differs from that in the school where
lockers, showers, toilets, and dressing rooms must
be capable of serving an entire class at one time.
If these facilities are to be used in connection with
activities outside the building, then a special prob-
lem in arrangement and equipment is presented.

PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING 651

Accessibility, circulation, ventilation, supervision
and maintenance must be carefully considered in
the planning process, as well as correlation with
other facilities, involving problems of water sup-
ply, heating, and sewage disposal. Much emphasis
should be laid on adequate light and ventilation.
Whenever possible, locker and dressing rooms,
showers and toilets should be located on or above
the ground floor in order to take advantage of
natural light and air. Where used in relation to
an outdoor area as well, they should not be above
the ground fltmr.

Non-absorbent, easily cleaned, non-rusting ap-
pointments should be specified. The use of wood
for walls and floors should be avoided. Hard,
smooth surfaces are most satisfactory because they
are easy to keep clean.

The locker and dressing rooms, shower and
toilet combination should constitute a unit.

FIGURE I
(Illustration of typical women's and girls’ unit, showing
arrangement of facilities.)

Figure I provides for a dressing room with in-
dividual booths, toilet facilities, and individually

controlled showers with separate booths. The unit

is adjacent to the gymnasium.

, FIGURE II
(Illustration of typical men’s and boys’ unit, showing
arrangement of facilities.)

In Figure II the private dressing and shower
booths are eliminated. Benches are provided in
the dressing room and each shower
head in the open shower is indi-

vidually operated.
FIGURE III

(Illustration of typical arrangement of
two units.)

Figure III illustrates the typical
arrangement of two units showing the
relation of the various plumbing fa-
cilities for economy and maintenance. '
Note the passage between the two
showers and toilet, housing the plumb-
ing features and providing easy ac-
cess for repairs.

7/GUPE I

40 c K52
and

R0 OH

The locker and dressing room. Walls
and floor should be constructed of a
material easy to clean. Glazed brick
is an excellent wall material and
should be carried to a height of at
least six feet. Hard plaster and paint
above the wainscoting and on the
ceiling makes an excellent finish.

JIIYGLE UNIT-

      

DRA'J‘: ING

    
 
  
  
   

NONI”:
Imwltt

  
 

DREJJING

Dressing booths are usually provided in the wom-
en’s unit. There are a number of metal products
now obtainable for satisfactory partition purposes.
Individual wall lockers in various combinations
from full-length lockers to lockers in tiers are
available and their respective merits should be
carefully weighed before specifying. The floor
should be of non—slip construction. Tile, terrazzo
and cement have all been used satisfactorily.

Sometimes it is desirable to install a basket sys-
tem of checking and here again there is a wide
field for selection. Space requirements as well as
initial cost and operating personnel often deter-
mine the type of system and facility. A drinking
fountain or bubbler should be included in every
locker room and dressing room. Artificial light-
ing should be so designed as to illuminate the en-
tire room, and windows should be so placed that
natural ,light may reach as much of the room as
possible during some portion of the day.

Showers. The shower should be a separate but
adjacent feature to the dressing and locker room.
It is desirable to provide at the entrance of the
shower a footbath filled with a fungicidal solution.
In the women’s and girls’ units the showers are
usually individual, although there is a growing
feeling that the open shower is preferable. How-
ever, the type of shower will naturally be gov-
erned by local opinion and custom. Individual
showers are expensive to install and they occupy
greater space than the open shower. Tile or

7/6 UP! 11'

W017!”

J/IYGLJ.‘ 0/717” Nth

AOCKIP
and

DPEIJING

ROOM

 

 
 

FIGURE m

MEN ma’ WOHI/YJ 'U/Y/T

  
 

MEN: '

  
    

40:1: 1:
and

DPEJ' III/G
ROOM

       
   

run

652 PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING

cement non-slip Hoors, and tile, terrazzo, or glazed
brick walls are satisfactory for shower rooms.
Basketweave tile prevents slipping. All materials
should be non-absorbing.

No pipes should be exposed in the shower rooms,
and no pipes should go through the floor. Ade-
quate drainage is an important factor and must be
provided. The recessed type of shower head should
be placed three feet apart in the open shower and
should be shoulder high. The overhead type of
shower is not desirable either for women or men.
There should be individual hot and cold mixing
valves at each shower, but a master thermostatic
mixer is desirable in order to prevent scalding.
There should be adequate space provided for dry-
ing. This does not necessarily mean a specific
drying room. Showers in field houses are some-
times operated under gang control, but this does
not seem practicable in the community recreation
building, unless it is used for a field house as well.

Toilets. A room equipped with toilet and lava-
tory facilities should be provided in each unit.
These do not in any way substitute for the general
toilet facilities of the building, and for this rea-
son they may be reduced to a minimum in size and
number of fixtures. Wall and floor materials are
similar to those used in the construction of dress-
ing and locker rooms, and they should be non-
absorbing and easy to keep clean. Ventilation is
an especially important feature and must be ade-
quate. It should be understood that toilet facilities
in connection with the locker rooms should be
restricted to persons using locker, shower and
dressing room facilities.

When funds are limited it is sometimes neces-
sary to combine a gymnasium with an auditorium.
This is not an ideal arrangement from many
standpoints. The interests of different groups
sometimes clash, causing conflicts in programs.
The activities in the gymnasium must be suspend-
ed during dress rehearsals and dramatic produc-
tions. Constant changes necessary in adapting the
unit to different uses increase operating expense.
The physical requirements of the gymnasium and
the auditorium in regard to Hoors, walls, acoustics
and heat, vary widely. For example, the gym-
nasium floor should be non-slip, while the audi—
torium floor, if used for dancing, should be slip-
pery. Certain commercial products are available
to make the auditorium fioor temporarily slippery,
if the Hoor is non-slip and used as a gymnasium.
This, however, also adds to the operating cost. In

an auditorium, the stage should be_ seen from the
seating on the floor ; in the gymnasium, the Hoor
should be seen from the seating on the stage. This
makes it difficult to incorporate a stage in a gym-
nasium-auditorium, because a stage running the
length of the gymnasium is not desirable for dra-
matic productions, but it provides the best oppor-
tunity for watching activities on the gymnasium
floor. Nevertheless, many communities cannot af-
ford to construct and to operate a building with
separate gymnasium-auditorium units and the
combination of the two is the only solution to
their problem.

An Auditorium with Stage. In order to provide
facilities for dramatics, music, social dance activi-
ties, moving pictures, forums, lectures, and vari-
ous other types of entertainment. an auditorium
with stage is necessary. When the auditorium is
used for a variety of activities, a,1evel floor will
be necessary. The sloping floor is applicable only
to an auditorium Where permanent seating is re-
quired. This is seldom the case in community rec-
reation buildings. The size of the auditorium will
depend largely upon the required seating capacity.
In determining seating capacity, six square feet
per seat, exclusive of stage, can be used for rough
estimate. For example, a room 30 x 60 feet will
comfortably seat approximately 300 people.

The auditorium should provide a stage, dress-
ing room facilities, and storage space for chairs,
tables and stage properties. In addition there may

be Special facilities such as a moving picture booth
and a balcony.

The Stage. This should be permanent and ele-
vated. The elevation of the stage will depend on
the length of the room, but three feet is consid-
ered a minimum. Whenever possible, the front
wall of the stage should extend across the entire
width of the room. The most important feature,
and certainly the one most neglected in the stage
design, is sufficient depth. Depth is necessary to
provide ample' Space for communication and circu-
lation between wings. It also assists backstage
operations, when space is at a premium. A depth
of less than eighteen feet presents a severe handi-
cap in the production of dramatics.

The proscenium opening is also important. Too
large a proscenium can often be corrected by cur-
tain control or by the introduction of a special
tormentor. For a room 40 feet wide a proscenium
width of 28 feet, with a six foot Wing space on
each side of the stage would be satisfactory. The

PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING

height of the prosceni—
um is proportionate to
the width and is often
regulated by the over-
all height of the room.
\Nhenever possible, at
least three feet should
be left between the top
of the proscenium arch
and the ceiling. This af-
fords an opportunity to
hang and conceal drops
and light borders. Light
plugs should be placed
at strategic points on the stage. The switchboard
should be located where the operator can easily
observe the action on the stage. It is usually placed
against the inner stage proscenium wall, on the
right.

When not in use for dramatic productions, the
stage can be adapted for many purposes. When
the curtain is drawn, the stage becomes a room
apart from the auditorium and adaptable to many
types of activities. The stage is often used as a
game or club room, and where size permits, active
games such as shufHeboard can be introduced.
This multiple use of the stage should be given
careful consideration in the early stages of the
design.

The need for a permanent stage has been em-
phasized. However, experiments in semi-portable
stage construction are now in progress. One type
suggested consists of
the front portion of the
stage constructed in a
series of uniform sec-
tions securely locked to-
gether and adaptable to
other uses. These sec-
tions may be of various
dimensions, as, for ex-
ample, 3 feet wide x 8
feet long, as is illustrat-
ed in Figure IV. The
sections can be placed
end to end on the audi-
torium floor to form a
three foot walk for spe-
cial types of entertain-
ment, such as fashion
shows and various con-
tests. This is shown in

Figure V. Figure VI

l._____

I

.7

   

 
   

I
L-- -L .- -- 0--

 

I
I
I
u
I
u
.l . -
gUD/ TOP! UH

we we: 17

47'

 
 
  

Jx4gr

I l

27

   

1400/ TOP! (#7

FIGURE

 
    
 

IIII
, ,~—

653

illustrates the arrange-
ment of these sections
in the center of the audi-
torium to form a box-
ing ring, or a bandstand
for dance music. If the
sections are of SUffiCieIlt
height they can be used
around the room for
booths during special
bazaars and exhibitions.
It is also possible to use
them out of doors for
the same purpose. In
connection with special stage productions they can
serve as bases for tableaux. This type of con-
struction has many possibilities, but it must be
remembered that two factors are necessary for its
success—perfect uniformity and rigidity of con-
struction and a device for locking them together
securely.

The auditorium in a community recreation
building is not in any sense a theater, except in
rare cases where an unusual interest in com-
munity dramatics exists. For this reason exten-
sivefacilities such as fly galleries, elaborate scen—
ery sets, intricate switchboard and lighting facili-
ties need not be considered. Such equipment in-
creases the initial cost and leaves little for the
imagination and resourcefulness of those engaged
in this form of activity.

Dressing room facilities will be_ required in any
' program which includes
dramatic productions.
These facilities consist
of two or more rooms
equipped with make-up
tables, mirrors, closet
space, washbowl, and
adequate lighting. The
dressing rooms should
be adjacent to and con-
necting with the stage
whenever possible. It is
also desirable that they
be readily accessible to
toilet facilities. Because
of limited space the
rooms will of necessity
be small and compact.
Sometimes, where space
does not permit the pro-
vision of special dress-

   

7100??

 

II?

654 PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING

ing rooms, improvised temporary 'facilities can be
set up in the wings or in the rear of the stage.

The provision of dressing rooms offers an ex-
cellent opportunity for putting into practice the
principle of multiple use. Any room which is ac-
cessible from backstage can be adapted for this
purpose. There is no reason why a club, game or
activity room or'even a kitchen‘cannot serve as a
dressing room during the dramatic production.
There are many examples of ingenuity in adapt-
ing rooms. For illustration, a cafeteria beneath
the auditorium of a high school is used as a dress-
ing room for all school dramatic productions. It
has at times served a cast as large as one hundred
people. Local dramatic enthusiasts may insist on
specialized dressing rooms, but for wide com—
munity interests to be served such a room often
becomes an expensive luxury.

Storage space for chairs, tables and stage prop-
erties must be provided. The space beneath the
stage is often used for this purpose. While this
provides a certain amount of space, it often causes
much inconvenience and expense as it is diflicult
to utilize the space in the extreme rear of the un-
derstage area. This can be accomplished, how-
ever, by the introduction of low trucks or dollies
on casters or wheels, upon which chairs can be
piled. They can be pulled from under the stage
into the auditorium, loaded, and then pushed back,
thus using the entire space. Sometimes these
trucks are placed on tracks under the stage so that
there is no swerving to right or left. In this way
the maximum storage peak is reached. Trap doors
are sometimes placed in the floor of the audi—
torium for the purpose of dropping chairs and
tables to a specially designed storage space in the
basement. If such an arrangement is used, great
care should be taken in fitting the door to the
floor and providing a secure locking device. It is
sometimes necessary to design a room adjacent to
the auditorium for the special purpose of storage.
In planning the auditorium a careful study of
chair and table storage requirements should be
made so that adequate provision can be provided.
Special care should be given in the selection of
chairs and tables which can be folded to occupy
as little space as possible. The size and shape
should be considered before designing the storage
space in order to make the most use of the area.

Special features. Many auditoriums are equipped
with such special features as a motion picture
booth. This is an expensive item in construction
and should be carefully investigated in advance.

It is now possible to offer excellent moving pic-
tures with sound from a 16 mm. projection
machine, as there is a wide variety of material
available and the subject matter is being constantly
enlarged in the fields of education, drama and
comedy. Compared with expense of installing a
moving picture booth, the 16 mm. projector which
requires no booth deserves careful consideration.
Another factor to be considered is the cost of
renting the films, for here is another point in
favor of the 16 mm. projector. An elaborately
equipped moving picture booth and projector at
one of the larger community recreation buildings
in the west has been discontinued in favor of a
16 mm. machine.

Another special feature is the construction of a
balcony in connection with the auditorium for ad-
ditional seating. As most balconies are designed
for a specific use, they are usually constructed
with sloping floor. This gives an opportunity for
the installation of permanent seats. The balcony
is an especially important feature in a combined
gymnasium-auditorium as it supplies seating fa-
cilities for spectators without taking up valuable
floor space.

Rooms for Games and Club Activities

Every community recreation building, large or
small, will require two or more rooms for arts
and handcraft work, club and social activities and
for a wide variety of quiet games. It is sometimes
advantageous to include a library and a quiet place
for reading and study, and also rooms for special
purposes, such as a photographic dark room, a
room for the installation of metal and woodwork~
ing machinery, and for other types of specialized
activity.

Most rooms can serve many purposes, and the
possible uses to which a room may be put should
be carefully considered in the preliminary stages
of the design. For example, a room used both as
a craft room and as a room for club meetings and
games will require ample cupboard and storage
space for craft materials and tools as well as un-
finished articles. It is always an excellent plan to
include a built-in exhibition case, and provision
should be made either in or adjacent to the room
for the storage of work tables and chairs. The
installation of a sink with both hot and cold water
is also recommended.

Careful consideration should be given to the
orientation of the rooms. Those devoted to arts
and crafts should be favored with north light,

PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING 655

while club and game rooms can be located on
almost any exposure. Natural light should be pro-
vided whenever possible, but if natural light can-
not be supplied then ample artificial light should
be provided.

The metal and woodworking craft room is
usually placed in the basement because of the vi-
bration from the machinery. The size and ar-
rangement of benches, space for supplies and
portable equipment, location of the lighting figures
—all must be given careful consideration in all
rooms for specialized use.

It is often desirable to place light switches to all
main rooms in the director’s office. Where switches
are placed indiscriminately throughout the building
there is always a temptation to turn lights on and
off, or to turn lights on when it is not necessary.
By locating the main switches in the director’s
office, the director has a further check on the oc-
cupancy of the rooms.

The interior decoration and appointments of the
rooms have a direct psychological value, not only
because they produce an environment pleasing to
the eye but also because they may reduce the ten-
dency to mutilate and destroy. The introduction
of a fireplace in a library or a club room not only
adds an architectural feature of beauty but pro—
vides the necessary background for fireside activi-
ties. The storytelling hour is far more impres-
sive when held before the open fireplace. Great
care should be taken to select color schemes that
are quieting and non-irritating. Materials should
be selected which will stand the wear and tear of
use and reduce maintenance. The floor of the
rooms will depend entirely upon the type of use
to which the room is to be put. Hardwood floors
well joined, cement, or cement overlaid with lin-
oleum are all durable and easy to keep clean. Built-
in chalk blackboards have many advantages and
they also provide a special activity in themselves.
They need not necessarily be
black as these facilities are
now available in green,
brown, grey-blue, and even
maroon, and a color scheme
may be selected to harmonize
with the interior of the room.

The Kitchen

A community recreation
building should be equipped
with facilities for the serv-
ing of light refreshments and

"There is no standard pattern for a com-
munity recreation building. Each build-
ing should be designed to meet the needs
of the people it is to serve. An elabor-
ately constructed and‘luxuriously equip-
ped building does not necessarily mean a
satisfactory structure from a functional
point of View. A community
building. like any other project in de-
signI should combine beauty and utility.
Simplicity is a fundamental principle of
functional design, and often the simplest
structure may be the most beautiful."

in many cases for the preparation of complete din-
ners. Such facilities vary from a small kitchen-
ette to a completely equipped kitchen. The kitchen
should be readily accessible to the auditorium,
gymnasium or other room where meals and re-
freshments are to be served. The problem of serv-
ing meals can be quickly and easily solved by pro-
viding two doors between the kitchen and the
room where the meal is to be served, by having
space for serving tables in that room, and by an
economic and efficient arrangement of cooking
facilities. The walls of the kitchen should be of
sanitary finish, non-absorbent and easily cleaned.
Mechanical ventilation is important to carry off
all cooking odors and excess heat. In planning
the location of equipment attention should be
given to gas, water, electricity, and sewage con-
nections. It is sometimes desirable to supply re-
frigeration for milk, cream, butter and other per-
ishables used in the preparation of a meal. The
sink should be arranged in such a way as to pro-
vide maximum efficiency and ease in use.

In the larger community recreation buildings
both a kitchen and kitchenette can be included.
The kitchenette can be used for small groups with
minimum equipment and the kitchen will serve
larger groups. It is sometimes desirable to intro-
duce a special serving pantry in connection With
the kitchen. This pantry will also store the glass,
china, and silverware, and should be equipped
with lock and key. Special emphasis should be
placed on noise reduction and elimination.

Lobby, Lounge and Office

The first impressions of the building are gained
through the principal entrance. A lobby is an im-
portant feature of the entrance and great care
should be taken to design a lobby which will radi-
ate the spirit of welcome. It often becomes the
gathering place before meetings or during inter-
missions, and for this reason
it should be supplied with
comfortable chairs and ap-
pointments. Sometimes a por-
tion of the lobby is treated
as a lounge, harmoniously
furnished, where an atmos-
phere of hospitality prevails.
The lounge is in reality the
“community parlor,” and it
can be used for informal
gatherings as well as by the
general public at all hours of

recreation

656 PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING

the day. Here one can
meet friends and find
pleasant companionship.
The provision of newspa-
pers and periodicals offers
an opportunity for those
who wish to while away a
leisure hour. The lobby
may contain some of the
service features of the
building, such as the check
room, public telephone
booth, bulletin board, and drinking fountain. At-
tention should be given to the interior decoration
of the lobby, and a homey atmosphere created by
the selection of attractive rugs, furniture, pic-
tures and window drapes.

The office is usually adjacent to, or a part of,
the lobby. Every recreation building should have
a central point of control. This control point is
usually the office of the director, which should be
so located that those entering and leaving the
building can be easily observed. This obviously
means that there should be but one main entrance
to the building. Secondary entrances and exits
will be necessary and will be regulated by the local
building code and by the requirements of the
building. In the case of the auditorium or gym-
nasium separate entrances are often desirable so
that the unit can be completely shut off from the
rest of the building. The importance of central
control cannot be overemphasized. It is necessary
for the leader or director to know at all times who
is in the building.

It is sometimes desirable to provide an outer
and an inner office, the former for the attendant
or office secretary, and the latter as a private of-
fice for the director. The outer office is the infor-
mation center of the building. The stranger on
entering makes his first contact there and for this
reason it should be convenient to the main en-
trance. It should also be accessible for the issu-
ing of permits, tickets for various events, and for
arranging for special uses of facilities.

Other Service Features

Other service features usually consist of toilets,
checking and heating facilities, fuel and storage
rooms, janitor’s supply room and storage. The type
and extent of these features depend upon the Size,
design and use of the building. As far as possible,
public toilet facilities should be centrally located
and easily accessible from any part of the build-

"Few communities can afford to build as large
a building as they want. The perfect build-
ing usually costs too much. In estimating
the money required’ for a new building' future
needs should always be consideredI for there
is little economy in cutting down the cost of
the original unit to the extent that new, ex-
pensive additions must be made within a year
or two. Inferior quality building materials
are not economicalI for replacements and

repair may also be costly." — From Com-

munity Buildings for Farm Families.

ing. If the building con-
sists of more than one
floor, they should be in-
corporated on each floor.

Heating is a subject re-
quiring special technical
knowledge. It must be re-
membered that it is some-
times more economical
from the standpoint of
operation and maintenance
to install a dual heating
(system rather than to attempt to heat the entire
building from a central point. Adequate hot water
for showers and taps will require special heating
apparatus.

Checking facilities should be provided either in
the form of a special check room or by the adapta-
tion of an existing service or activities room for
checking purposes. The check room is usually
located near the main entrance of the building and
convenient to the auditorium. \Nhere the audi-
torium and gymnasium are separate units and can
be completely isolated for use, it may be necessary
to provide additional checking facilities.

General storage rooms will be necessary in dif-
ferent parts of the building, and a special supply
room and storage space for the janitor should be
located conveniently for his work. On each floor
of the building a small closet should be installed
with SlOp sink and space for storing brooms, mops
and other implements for the janitor’s use in
cleaning.

Drinking fountains should be distributed at
strategic points throughout the building. Occa-
sionally a special ticket booth is provided for use
at activities in the building for which a charge is
made, such as dramatic productions. Also, if
funds permit, it is sometimes well to install a
fire alarm system with “break glass” stations dis-
tributed throughout the building.

Specialized recreation features. It is sometimes
desirable to include in the community recreation
building special features such as bowling alleys,
swimming pool, billiard room, a rifle range.
Often there is a community demand for such fa-
cilities and they fill a very definite need. Some-
times a small charge can be made for the use of
these facilities to help defray their operating ex-
pense. However, the cost of operation is rarely
met by this means, and such facilities should not
in any sense be considered revenue-producers. It

PLANNING A COMMUNITY RECREATION BUILDING 657

must be remembered that all of these specialized
features are expensive to install, operate and
maintain. They should be considered only after a
careful study has been made as to the benefits
derived from them and the ability of the com-
munity to finance and maintain them.

There are many technical problems involved in
the construction of a swimming pool not only in
the design of the pool itself but also in the in-
stallation of such pool equipment as filters, chlor-
inators, and the pumps necessary for recircula-
tion. The swimming pool is a valuable accessory
to the community building, but if not carefully
planned it may become a serious liability. The
same consideration must be given to the bowling
alleys and the other specialized facilities. These
too require special technical assistance in planning
details.

General Considerations

Good design should demonstrate its function.
Too often the emphasis has been placed upon the
exterior appearance of the building with little re-
gard to functional use. It is therefore important
to consider carefully the fioor plans of the com—
munity building before elaborating on the exterior
walls which enclose them. A building should be
designed from within, not from without.

There is a distinct relation between the design
of the building and financial resources, supervi-
sion, operation, and maintenance. The financial
resources—that is, the money available for the
construction of the buildingwdetermine to a large
extent its size, the type of construction, and the
physical equipment. The designer is interested in
getting the most out of every dollar. The type of
facility and the kind of materials used in the con-
struction must be selected and planned to come
within the._limits of the financial resources avail—
able. It is here that the planner will invoke the
principle of multiple use in order to serve a wider
community need. The old saying that it is not
the initial contract but the extras that break the
camel’s back may be as true of community recre-
ation buildings as it is in the construction of
private homes.

Anticipating all possible emergencies by study-
ing past mistakes due to the lack of functional
design will eliminate a great deal of unnecessary
expense. This is one of the reasons for a close
cooperation between the architect and the recrea-
tion specialist. A discriminating selection of build-

ing materials, interior fixtures, and special equip—
ment should be made before plans are completed.

The building can be planned to simplify the
problem of supervision. The arrangement of
rooms and facilities should be such as to require
the smallest possible staff. Reference has been
made in this bulletin to the importance of control.
Often it is possible, in small buildings where the
operating budget seriously limits the size of the
staff, to incorporate partial glass partitions be-
tween rooms. This makes it easy for the leader
to know what is happening in various parts of the
building without making a tour of inspection.
Excess corridor space, poor circulation, and scat-
tered facilities are factors in design which in-
crease problems of supervision. There should be
direct access to all rooms so that activities will not
be interrupted by people passing to and fro. A
clear understanding of the type of program and
the variety of activities to be carried on will
greatly assist the architect in designing a building
that will reduce supervision to a minimum.

The operating budget of the building should be
approximated before the plans are completed. This
budget should take into consideration leadership,
the cost of heating, lighting, water, insurance, sup-
plies, repairs, maintenance, depreciation, and other
miscellaneous items. A careful study should be
made of the minimum income that may be ex-
pected from various activities, if such a program
is to be contemplated, such as the renting of gym-
nasium and auditorium, membership fees, and fees
from other activities.

The ability of a community to support the
building after it is constructed should be care-
fully weighed. Too often funds have been set
aside for the construction of a community recrea-
tion building that is far beyond the resources of
the community to operate and maintain.

The maintenance of the building should also be
carefully considered. Only materials that are dur-
able and free from yearly repair should be used.
A building improperly maintained is a liability to
the community. All waste space should be elimi-
nated. Floors, ceilings, walls, plumbing and light-
ing fixtures, and other accessories should be
selected with an eye to maintenance as well as to

practicality of use and appearance.

NOTE: It may be of interest to readers of RECREATION
to know that reprints of this article on the construction
of community recreation buildings may be secured from
the National Recreation Association at twenty cents each.

What They Say About Recreation

“ LAY IS EXPERIENCE with satisfactions. This
P experience may be an anticipation, a realiza-
tion, or a memory of satisfactions. Ordi-
narily play is a sociable experience in which vol-
untary motor activity (physical exercise) is promi-
nent. But play may be passive. It may be solitary.
Fantasy, day dreams, and air castles are different
names for unsociable passive play. One may
secure his play, in part, watching the active play
of others. Absorbing work, mental or physical, is
play.”—- Thomas A. Storey, Pd.D., M.D., in

Principles of Hygiene.

“I like to think of hobbies primarily as builders
of companionship. Collect something, and in-
stantly you have thousands of friends in every
part of the world who share with you a com-
mon interest.”—-Francis Hatch in Leisure.

“As case workers we recognize that the ,differ—
ences of people are assets, that it is upon these
that we build societies. . . . Difference is a precious
thing to the individual and its recognition is one
of the contributions that we as case workers have
to make to the understanding of human relation-
ships. It implies fundamentally that we accept the
gifts that each one brings to the common wealth
and refrain from any attempt to mold everyone
after a single image, no matter how fine that
image may be."—Margaret E. Rich in The
Family, January, 1939.

“When words and signs and exclamations fail
to show forth the depth and strength of our emo-
tions, we break out at last, and all at once into
music, poetry and dancing.”——Confncius.

“I say I’m going out to play a game of tennis,
but what I really mean is—I’m going out to have
a wonderful time under the sun, under the sky.
I’m going to rush around feeling the motion of
the air and the movement of my body through
space. I’m going to forget everything except the
game. For a while to me the world does not exist.
I won’t know how old I am; I may be a child
again, or I may be grown up, but I don’t know.
I shall lose myself in the fun of the game, in the
competition which seems very real at the moment

658

but which is not important. I am going to .play l”
-- Helen Wills Moody at the H erald Tribune

Forum.

“The person who plans, organizes, and admin-
isters leisure programs for the future should be
something more than an athlete; he should be, in
fact, a lit representative of the best in our cul-
tural life. Since it will be a part of his task to re—
store to human dignity the losses incurred through
our present use of the machine, he should be a
personality of dignified proportions, that is, an
educator of the first caliber.”—Eduard C. Linde-

man.

“If persons can find no sense of worth and
dignity in doing work of a routine character, no
chance to utilize their abilities, skills, and creative
capacities, from What source may they develop
that sense of self-respect without which life is

_ barren and empty? It is a great tragedy in the

modern world that individuals must get their
meanings in life, if at all, outside of their work.
And the only other source from which a sense of
worth may be engendered, the only other channel
for creative expression, is that of avocational and
leisure time experiences.”———-—Hedley S. Diniock in
Religious Education, October-December, 1938.

“\Ne are on the threshold of an entirely new
approach to the problem of juvenile delinquency.
. . . The content of the new chapter will be largely
determined by the presence or absence of the
things which go to enrich life and promote indi-
vidual security.”—Dr. Milton E. Kirkpatrick.

“It costs a community no more to train a
good citizen than to train a ‘good’ gangster. At
the end of his training the gangster is a heavy
charge on the community. It costs society $300 a
year to maintain an adult prisoner in an institu-
tion; $400 for a juvenile delinquent. The good
citizen at the end of his training begins to support
the community and contributes to its resources.
The cost of keeping a youth in school averages
$100 a year.”—-—From Youth—How Can Com-
munities H elp?

  
 

A Mad March

When Alice’s Adventures

are made the subiect of
a very merry party!

INCE OUR social affair for
S the student body was to
be held in the middle of
March, we decided that it
should be a Mad March Hare party, with Alice’s
Adventures in Wonderland for its inspiration. Our
committee and enthusiasm were large but our
financial resources were comparatively small, so
we knew that the success of the party must de-
pend on our ideas and ingenuity. We anticipated
an attendance of around 120 adult young people.

Preliminary Arrangements

Our first assignment was to become familiar
once more with “Alice,” for decorations, costumes
and games were to be dictated by her. The rooms
available for our use were the library reading
room, two -large classrooms, and the “commons”
for the serving of refreshments. The entrance to
the library was contracted to a small “hole” by
the use of curtains of wrapping paper. A large
, sign reading “Rabbit, His Hole” (the paper an-
tiqued with candle smoke) was in evidence nearby.
The two classrooms were labeled “The Duchess’s
House” and “The Courtyard” respectively. In—
side the library, which was the preliminary meet-
ing room for the entire group, a few decorative
pieces symbolized the theme of the party: a dozen
large crayon sketches of various characters in
Alice, copied from the Tenniel originals; a toad-
stool created out of an open umbrella tied on to a
hat rack and clothed in taupe colored crepe paper;
perched on this, a rubber bal-
loon caterpillar, lifting an in-
quisitive head; two or three
large cardboard bottles, labelled
“drink me,” and other appro-
priate sketches.

It was decided that the guests
should be classified in three
groups as they arrived. A label

To a class in recreational leader-
ship which she taught last winter
at Garrett Biblical Institute. Mrs.
Leiffer assigned as a proiect the
planning of a party for the student
body of the school. The party which
was evolved was voted the most
enioyable the school had had for
years. We suggest that you try it!

DOROTHY C. LEIFFER

was provided for each guest-
a six-inch paper plate — on
which his name was to be
printed in large black letters.
A ribbon loop fastened to each plate served to at-
tach it to lapel or dress, and pasted in the center
of each plate was a small colored hat, rabbit, or
heart, which placed the guest in his proper classi-
fication. In order that each group might be auto-
matically divided into two teams, half the paper
cut-out motifs of each pattern were green and
half red.

The members of the committee were given defi—
nite assignments of responsibility. First, there
were the leaders of games which-were to be played
in the library and the two classrooms, or, as they
were now called, the rabbit’s hole, the duchess’s
house and the courtyard. A young man and
woman were chosen to be in charge of each room
and to conduct the games for each of the three
groups of guests in succession.

Alice and the White Rabbit held sway over the
rabbit’s hole, the Duchess and the Cheshire Cat
in the Duchess’s house, and the King and Queen
of Hearts in the courtyard. Each of these leaders
wore some costume elements which were sugges-
tive of the part he played: the King and Queen
wore pasteboard crowns, carried scepters, and had
attached large paper hearts to their clothing; the
Duchess was resplendent in a lamp shade head-
dress and a silk shawl, while the Cheshire Cat
sported large furry ear muffs and an extended
grin. The White Rabbit had
long pasteboard ears and white
shirt and duck trousers, and
Alice was a charming creature
with long hair and a little girl
dress. Other leaders-at-large
were in costume. The Mad Hat-
ter secured a twenty-five cent
cardboard opera hat and a black

659

660 A MAD MARCH HARE PARTY

silk lounging robe; the Dormouse had small furry
ear muffs and a tiny rubber mouse pinned to his
lapel, while the waiters who passed refreshments
had two-foot “playing cards” over their shoulders,

fore and aft.

The Program

The affair was scheduled to start at eight
o’clock. The first fifteen minutes were spent in
labelling guests. Three committee members sat at
tables outside the rabbit’s hole, equipped with
broad nibbed pens, india ink, and paper plate
labels—and some time was spent in admiring the
decorations. At 8 :15 the Mad Hatter, assisted by
the White Rabbit, led the group in a grand march.
In accordance with directions guests marched on
toes to represent Alice when tall; they bent over
and represented Alice~ after she had drunk from
the magic bottle; they jumped along in imitation
of the rabbit; they waddled from side to side, as
did the Duchess; they undulated up and down in
honor of the caterpillar. Promptly at 8:25 there
was a timekeeper whose function it was to see
that all groups moved at exactly the right time)
the group was divided into its three classifications.
The “Hats” went to the Duchess’s house; the
“Hearts” to the courtyard, and the “Rabbits”
stayed in the rabbit’s hole. Three twenty-minute
periods were spent in playing games in the three
rooms, the groups rotating until all had played all
the games.

Croquet in the Rabbit's Hole. In the rabbit’s
hole was staged the Queen’s croquet game under
the leadership of Alice and the White Rabbit. The
equipment was simple, consisting of two boxes
and two balls. Ten persons were selected from
each team to form the nine wickets. Two players
from opposite teams stood with joined hands
raised to form the arch and two stakes of the con-
ventional croquet court. The rest of the players
from each team lined up behind their respective
“stakes.” At the starting signal, the first player
in each line seized the ball which reposed in the
box at his stake’s feet and ran through the wickets
in the direction taken by a ball in a croquet game.
After returning to his own end, he dropped the
ball in the box once more and the second runner
started. In the _meantime runners were also
operating from the opposite end. But woe to the
runners if they touched each other in passing!
If they did, they had to stop and take the places
of the persons forming the nearest wicket, who
then continued the race. The team whose mem-

bers completed the course first won, of course. If
there was time in the twenty minute period, the
game was repeated, the wicket members being
given a chance to run.

Quiet Games in the Duchess's House. In the
Duchess’s house, presided over by the Duchess
and the Cheshire Cat, quiet games were going on.
The first half of each twenty-minute period was
occupied with a “Mad Spelling Match.” Guests
ranged themselves in two teams on opposite sides
of the room and engaged in a regular old-fash-
ioned spell—down—regular, that is, except for the
fact that in the spelling every vowel was to be
replaced by a whistle. The words were selected
from Alice and were reminiscent of her adven-
tures. During the second ten minutes, the Duchess
served up her pie. Thirty names of characters ap-
pearing in Alice had been chosen—such as dor-
mouse, cheshire cat, mock turtle, gryphon, cater-
pillar—and thoroughly pied. Slips containing the
pied names were passed out and guests competed
in deciphering them.

Courtyard Activities. In the courtyard the King
and Queen were giving guests a lively time. Here
again the twenty-minute period was divided be-
tween two games. First came “the Muddy March
Relay” in which the guests lined up in two teams,
relay fashion. The leader of each line was given
two bushel ba'skets. He started with both feet in
one of these baskets, placing the other one a long
step ahead of him. He then stepped into the sec-
ond basket and again moved the first one ahead.
Thus he progressed to the goal and back, and the .
next person in line followed suit. It might be
added that reserve baskets were provided ahead
of time, as large masculine feet were known to
split out the sides of their “boats.” The latter half
of the period was spent in playing “Storks.” One
team formed a large circle. Inside the circle were
the members of the other team, each standing on
one leg. A large rubber ball was provided for the
first team, whose members took turns in rolling it,
attempting to hit one of the “storks” (below the
knee) or to force him to put down the other foot.
The storks were permitted to hop around, but if
hit were required to leave the game.

With twenty—minute periods in each room, and
each group occupying hve minutes for movement
from one room to the next, an hour and a quarter
was consumed in games after 8:30. Promptly at
9:45, then, the entire company assembled in the

(Continued on page 682)

 

Skiing Comes to Essex County

HETHER or not “skiing” is
w an English or a Norwegian

word and no matter
whether it’s pronounced Sheeing
or with the hard sound of the letter K, it is all the
same to spectators and to many of the partici-
pants, particularly novices.

Five years ago the sport was considered some-
thing for persons of wealth, and one at which.the
individual must be an expert; but with the rail-
roads and purveyors of sports equipment popular-
izing it as a form of active recreation, even those
of us in the sections where snow has been rela-
tively scarce found it necessary to take stock of
physical facilities.

After looking over our facilities in Essex
County, New Jersey, in the company of experts
whose skiing had all been done in this country,
we were convinced that the county, in its parks
and reservations, held the answer to the question:
“Where shall we go for winter sports?” We
could not claim scenery which would rival that of
the Alps but we were fortunate in meeting Mr.
Sveinung Paulsen who was born in Telemark,
George von Lillienfeld, an exchange student at
Harvard, who taUght skiing as a hobby while at
the University of Munich and at Innsbruck,
Arthur Sedelmeier, who spent his first twenty
winters on skis in the Black Forest, and Madame
Helen Zechsmeister, an Austrian ski instructress
who stopped off here for a few weeks on her way
to Chicago. These four confirmed the reports of
our local experts, and assured us that South
Mountain and Eagle Rock reservations offered
practically everything that experts in both down-
hill and cross—country could ask, for there are bet-

By L. C. WILSEY '

Supervisor of Recreation
Essex County Park Commission

ter than 30 per cent grades Witn
natural slalom courses on our
bridle trails, to say nothing of
open slopes in the reservation and
on the golf courses for the accommodation of be-
ginners, novices and expert skiers.

When we decided to conduct the first cross-
country. race in the county—certainly the first one
to be open to the public—we were convinced of
two things: (I) The courses through the reser-
vation were much too difficult for any except ex-
perienced skiers; (2) Our open slopes in the res-
ervation were not accessible from- the trails. In
the end we finally chose Brookdale Park which
had two open slopes with plenty of room for spec-
tators, judges, and timers.

Since we desired to accommodate in one race
Juniors (boys and girls under 13), Intermediates
(boys and girls 13 to 18 inclusive), and Seniors
(19 and over), careful planning and scheduling
was necessary. Clearly identified trails with yel-
low markers for Juniors, green for Intermedi-
ates, and red for Seniors, with enough inspectors
to make sure that none took the wrong turns,
were essential since parts of the courses were
used by all three classes, timing had to be perfect,
because the stop watches were permitted to run
from the time the gun was fired until the last con-
testant crossed the finish line.

After receiving their numbers and giving their
names and addresses to the clerks, the contestants
lined up in pairs before the starter. The Main-
tenance Department had cooperated in the break-
ing of parallel trails by having a tractor drag a
stone boat over the course, so that it was possible

. (Continued on page 683)
661

Golt tor the Common Man

'1‘ THE PRESENT time the
A game of golf, one of our
most enjoyable recrea-

tive sports, is beyond the reach of many who
would like to play. It is beyond the reach of some
because of the cost involved, of others because of
the time required to play, and of still others be-
cause of the initial discouragements that make
them desert the fairways before they learn the

game well enough to enjoy it.

Providing a Training Ground

Certain communities need a modified type of
golf course to provide for those who are learning
and for those who play only occasionally. This is
not a substitute for our present courses but a
training ground for golfers. In one sport, soft-

ball, a substitute for the game of baseball has been-

offered. This game fits“ the needs of the less
active and less adept performers and costs less
money for equipment. Different bats, balls, size
of playing areas and cheaper equipment for the
variOus positions have been introduced until the
game is a real competitor of baseball in many
communities.

To provide for the less adept at golf, I propose
only a change in the type of course. (The balls,
clubs, bags and wearing apparel are to remain as
they are.) This should make the modified game
a preparation for, and an aid to, the game of golf.
Two significant alterations might well be made
for the eventual good of the game.

First, the cup should be increased in size to ten
inches in diameter. Then there will be oy where
there has been sorrow, and smiles where pro-
fanity has held sway! It is on the greens that
amateur golfers suffer. With a larger cup some
of the over-emphasis that the novice must place on
putting will be eliminated. The larger cup will
also help in the matter of reducing the cost. The
greens will not need to be as smooth as they are
now supposed to be. A slightly
improved section of the fair-
way may suflice. Since it will
cost less to provide an ade-
' quate putting area the duffer
will be able to play for a
smaller fee. Then too, less
time will need to be spent on

662

By E. F.- VOLTMER, Ph. D.

University of Iowa

Dr. Voltmer suggests here an ingenious
plan for malcing golf less expensive and
better adapted to the requirements of
less active and less adept players. He
emphasizes the fact, howeverI that his
suggested plan is not intended as a
substitute for the present courses. but
as a training ground for golfers.

the greens and play can move
along more rapidly.

In the second place, there
will be practically no traps, rough, bunkers and
the like. Those expensive handicaps are well
enough for the experienced golfer. He gets
enough out of the game to make it worth what the
additional sporty elements cost. The newcomer
and occasional player does not have enough con-
trol to avoid these hazards and consequently
should not be compelled to pay extra for addi-
tional, unpleasant obstacles to his game.

In this modified game the drive—that delight of
golf— is still with us. The real thrill comes from
hitting the ball hard and seeing it lily.’ Hitting
hard and having something happen because of
that effort is an elemental human urge. We also
retain the shot from the fairway, second only to
the drive in enjoyment. There will be more time
available for hitting the ball if there is less time
spent hunting in the rough or wading in the pond.
After all there is nothing sacred in the present
cup size or the amount and nature of the playing
hazards. They make the game more interesting
for the better players but not for most poorer
players. The dub feels that he must put up with
them because they are' there. He would not ask
for them but he has little caste in the realm of
golf and feels called upon to accept the situation
as it is. From the viewpoint of recreation it is
better to play golf for fun than to follow all
established forms. Then, too, it is not uncommon
for poorer players to feel embarrassed when play-
ing ahead of good players and for the better play-
ers to be annoyed because of being held up by the
former. The novice course will provide a means
of eliminating at least a part of this unpleasantness.

Those who wish to graduate to the regular golf
course can try their hand at it and if they like the
more difficult game better can continue to play it.
Those who prefer to return to the less difficult
course for further seasoning
can still do so and enjoy
novice golf. There will be
some who will always wish
to play there because they do
not have the time or money
necessary to play regularly

( Continued on page 684)

 It Has Happened Here!

ITH BATTERIES of statis-
Wtics to the right of it,

with miles of roads and
pipe lines and linear feet of
sewer description to the left of
it; in the midSt of lawn mow-
ers and the reports of the number of monkeys,
mammals, amphibians and vertebrates in the 200
-—-—250 pages of this-“stands a report on recrea—
tion, without any statistics, without categories of
activities for the various seasons and moods, and
in fact without most of the types of substance
found in most reports of recreation systems.

The author instead writes of such themes as
the promotion of the general welfare, the results
of competent leadership, the values other than
physical, developing attitudes toward life, putting
ideals of democracy to work and reconciling youth
to society.- Each subject is illustrated with human
interest stories that clinch
the point and make the
average person feel
that the job is
worth while and
well done. Without
mentioning names
we will go so far
as to say that the
very refreshing re—
port is from the
Director of Recre~
ation of the Chicago
Park District who
is at his best in this
report philosophiz~
ing about recrea-
tion in a great city
and in dramatizing
its significance for
public consumption.
Glimpses of his
thought are evident
as we follow him
through his report.

It was clearly an
implied meaning of
the Federal consti-
tution that local
government might

Courtesy Cleveland Foundation

Some thoughts on reading
the report of the activ-
ities of a park system

The provision of sports offers one means of
promoting the "general welfare of the people"

 

concern itself with the public
well—being —— with promoting
the “general welfare” of the
people. On this premise the
parks’ community service was
I based. The parks with their
various facilities have been centers to conserve
the health and productive vigor in succeeding city-
bred generations. From the start they set about
conditioning youth for life’s responsibilities on
their athletic fields, in swimming pools and gym—
nasiums. How well these efforts have succeeded
on the physical side was demonstrated in the great
war, when young manhood reared under the
smoke of our factory chimneys proved more fit
on the average than the product of the open coun-
try. The tendency toward physical degeneration,
the historic human menace of the city, had here
been reversed.

As evidence of one con-
tribution which the parks
and playgrounds of
the city have made,
the author states:
“Knute Rockne was
an Eckhart Park
athlete before going
as a student to
Notre Dame. Ralph
Metcalf was a run-
ner of note in Chase
Park when he en-
tered Marquette.
George Lott started
his tennis in Wash-
ington Park, Chick
Evans his golf in
Jackson ———- both to
rise to international
fame. Billy Webb,
now coach of the
White Sox, was a
product of Fuller
Park. Frank Motis,
representing C or-
nell Square, won
the national ama-
teur heavy weight
wrestling champi-

663

664 IT HAS HAPPENED HERE!

onship. Johnny Weismuller was a product of
Oak Street Beach. Al Green, Olympic champion,
did his early diving in Stanton Park pool. Bobby
McLean started skating at Garfield Park, to win

world renown.”

In illustrating values other than physical that
arise from the parks, the following instance is
cited:

“One of our later champions was member of a
boys’ gang, engaged as its major occupation in
theft from one of the railroad yards. He was so
sickly he had been removed from school. He
could encircle his arm with the fingers of the op-
posite hand. When the park opened, he came over
daily to play baseball. At the end of the summer,
stepping out of the shower before a mirror one
evening, and reaching up to scratch his head, he
noticed a little lump of muscle beginning to show
in the right arm, with which he had been pitch-
ing. He rushed in to the gym instructor, tensing
his arm, and said, ‘Look here!’ The instructor
countered by telling him, ‘Listen! If you’ll lay
off your cigarettes, quit drinking, and do as I tell
you, I’ll make a man of you!’ The boy was so
overcome he was unable to reply. He went home,
to throw into the stove his cigarettes and tobacco.
That night he resigned from his gang association.
He was awaiting the instructor at the park gate
next day. Five years later he won the diamond
medal for the national championship in one of the
most vigorous sports on the sporting calendar.

“He had to battle to overcome a violent tem-
per, on his way up. Observing that as he was
losing his temper he was in the habit of mutter-
ing curses at an opponent, under his breath,
merely to gain control of himself he decided to
quit profanity, and later even slang, sensing that
.such explosions were a loss of self-control. He
told us the story on the way home from the na-
tional tournament where he won his champion-
ship. He kept looking at the medal in his hand,
as he reflected on the step-by-step process by
which he had earned it—-—a step—by-step process of
self-mastery.”

Under the caption, “Putting Ideals of Democ-
racy to Work,” the author goes on to say:

“Civilization demands more than the cultiva-
tion of a gladiatorial spirit, a spirit of unrelieved
selfishness of aim, either personal or national.
Civilization depends on socializing that spirit, on
making it more considerate of the welfare of others

than ourselves. It depends on relating that spirit
to voluntary disciplines necessary to its control.
Those disciplines, in turn, depend on a broadened
point of view. They depend on contacts, apprecia-
tions, practical ideals, expressed and become a
habit in everyday relations with one’s fellow men.
They even involve our attitudes toward all man-
kind, beyond national boundaries, as well as with-
in one’s own community or country. And if we
accept responsibility for appealing to the intense
purposes of our youth, then we must see that
these other responsibilities are accepted also.

“Here in Chicago, we reflected, are gathered
representatives of all the races and cultures of all
the world. America believes old wrongs can be
forgiven and forgotten. We do not hold with
hymns of hate. We think that as men come to
know and appreciate each other for their present
and personal worth, they may discover ideals we
all hold in common, and join hands in a self-dis-
ciplined society to put those ideals practically to
work in everyday life together. If that is ever
to be proved, our city is an ideal place to give our
warring and suspicious world a prophetic demon-
stration of that ‘Parliament of Man’ toward which
poets point, statesmen labor, all the faiths of 'man-
kind aspire, and the masses of humanity can only
grope in a hope that often wavers, but never com-
pletely dies. In the mounting tide of paganism .
that hope lends a spiritual note to secular life.

“So, since recreation consists of what people do
together, since it involves the enthusiasms and
purposes which most profoundly affect their social
development, it follows that if in affording oppor-
tunity to people to engage in their leisure doings

I together we should emphasize the neighborly

spirit, take bitterness out of competition, develop
more of sharing and less of contention, we might
indeed effectively ‘promote the general welfare’
and contribute in essential ways to the strengthen-
ing of our democracy.

“That purpose now fires the imagination of the
park staff; it is their inspiration. As one of our
workers recently stated it—it is the ‘soul’ of the
park organization, in contrast to its body—those
facilities, equipment, and operations with which
the public is perhaps better achainted. We state
it here that citizens may know the spirit in which
their park servants approach their work; the
ideals, not realized, perhaps, but nevertheless held
before us as distant goals, unattained, yet inspir-
ing effort because they are conceived as attainable.”

The Problem of Community Recreation

ina

Manhattan Neighborhood

A study conducted recently in one
of the "blighted" areas of Manhat-
tan showed a lack of facilities

which only adequate planning and
united community action can remedy

EIGHBORHOODS in and around which there is
N a concentration of industry, tranSportation
and retailing are faced with the problem of
providing recreational facilities such as athletic
fields, gymnasiums and meeting rooms, not only
for the residents of that community but for the
working population as well. This is not a new
problem, but one of increasing significance, first,
because it has not been sufficiently recognized in
recent park and playground developments, espe-
cially within Manhattan; and second, because of
the increasing participation of the industrial and
civil service workers in recreational activities
which demand use of athletic fields and gymnasi-
ums originally planned for neighborhood use.

It has been estimated that Manhattan provides
approximately seventy-three per cent of the em-
ployment in greater New York but only forty per
cent of the working population live on Manhat-
tan. Employees come from all boroughs in
Greater New York, from Jersey and from West-
chester, to work in Manhattan. If this working
group is to enjoy the benefits of leisure by partici-
pation in organized sports, facilities must be found
conveniently near their place of work. Other-
wise it is practically impossible for them to get
together due to the limited amount of time avail-
able for twilight sports and the inconvenience in-
curred by extended traveling on subways and

buses.
There is no statistical data available to draw

upon to determine to what extent industrial em-
ployees depend upon their organizations for rec-
reation. Nevertheless, when men work side by
side there grows up between them a certain bond
of friendship and understanding which carries
over into leisure time activities. It is quite natural

By DANIEL CARPENTER
Assistant Headworlter
Hudson Guild
New York City

that in New York City much of our social life is
built around our associations at work and busi-
ness. Families live side by side for years at a
time without knowing each other or speaking to
each other. In other words, New Yorkers have
little chance for community life and participation
in community recreation except through member-
ship in local settlements, churches and clubs,
which are insignificant as far as total population
is concerned.

An investigation of this problem in Chelsea, a
“blighted” residential area mixed with industry
and surrounded by the fur and needle trades dis-
tricts, large department stores, warehouses and
the docks-—an area bounded by Fourteenth Street
on the south, Fifth Avenue on the east, Forty—
second Street on the north, and the Hudson River
on the west—reveals that thirty-three per cent of
the public and private facilities available for adults
were used by groups brought together by their
employment. For example, the only school in the
district adapted for community use as far as gym-
nasium and pool facilities are concerned is used
almost exclusively by industrial groups.

Approximately thirty-seven per cent of the
permit time in Chelsea’s only athletic field has
been used by industrial groups. During the months
of April and June of 1938 all twilight permits
were granted to industrial teams. Consequently
neighborhood groups had no opportunity for eve-
ning use of the park for games or practices. This
situation was finally altered this past summer
after the local groups organized and worked out
with the Park Department an arrangement whereby
local teams were given preference in the use of
the field. It is also interesting to note that the

665

666 THE PROBLEM OF COMMUNITY RECREATION

seven private agencies in the district with gym-
nasium facilities are receiving an increasing num-
ber of requests from unions and industrial groups
for the use of their facilities between the hours of
5:30 and 8:30 in the evening, which cannot be
granted because every gymnasium is being used
to a maximum. “

If the above condition is indicative of a trend
in adult recreation as far as highly organized,
vigorous sports are concerned, it reveals a grow-
ing and pressing need which city planners will
have to consider in planning for adequate recre-
ational opportunities.

Furthermore, Manhattan 'is faced with the prob—
lem of providing social life for the thousands who
have moved to Long Island, the Bronx and other
boroughs, but who still have their social roots in
their original neighborhoods. Many social agen—
cies have a large part of their adult membership
no longer living on Manhattan but nevertheless
returning for their social and recreational life. In
Chelsea this is particularly true. During the last
thirty years nearly one half of the population has
been forced to move to other parts of the city be-
cause of the lack of satisfactory housing. Ade-
quate low or medium rent housing in these old
neighborhoods would have prevented this popula-
tion shift and resulted in a more satisfactory
social life.

There is still another aspect of the problem
which must be acknowledged, and that is the ques-
tion of adequate outdoor recreation space around
the public schools. The policy of the Board of
Education in the past has not taken into consider-
ation the recreation needs of the students and con-
sequently little provision has been made for out-
door facilities. In' Chelsea, Textile High School
and the Central Needle Trades High School have
a combined enrollment of 11,000 students. Ac-
cording to minimum standards as used by city
planning commissions, boards of education and
the National Recreation Association, these schools
should have at least twenty acres of outdoor play-
ground space. Actually, they have none!° Here
again the limited outdoor facilities in Chelsea
(inadequate as far as the resident population is
concerned) must be shared with the 6,400 students
who come into the district from other parts of the
city to the local high schools.

From the standpoint of leisure time of adults
it is important to have occasional open spaces at-
tractively landscaped and provided with benches
for quiet repose in the sunshine and air. In

Chelsea, with a population of 55,263, we have only
seventy-eight benches available for such use. This
need is accentuated by virtue of the fact that the
surrounding businesses and offices have thousands
of men and women taking time off at various in-
tervals throughout the day, thus crowding out
mothers with small babies who need a convenient
and pleasant place to spend time out of doors.
For example, the Federal employees and postal
workers. from the Morgan Annex of the Post Of-
fice, one block away, on pleasant days throughout
the year, spend their lunch hours in the landscaped
end of Chelsea Park. There is great need for a
desirable place for relaxation in the textile and fur
districts. The sidewalks on Seventh Avenue and
the side streets between Twenty-fifth and Thirty-
eighth Streets are practically impassable during
the noon hour when the workers congregate on
the sidewalks for a breath of fresh air and re-
laxation. This not only results in a serious traffic
problem, but is very unsatisfactory to the work-
ers themselves. It is a city, industrial and union
problem which might be jointly worked out to the
satisfaction of all three groups by securing the
cooperation of those concerned in the use of roof
space and vacant lots.

Although nothing has been said in the discus-
sion thus far concerning the play life of children
it is, of course, of great importance. In Chelsea
the outdoor facilities do not measure Up to the
needs of the child population of 8,691 children
under fourteen years of age. In relation to stand-
ards established by city planners and recreation
experts the present facilities are adequate for only
twenty-five per cent of the children in Chelsea.
This lack of play space would not be so serious if
the facilities were more equally distributed over
the area and if the children had exclusive use of
them. The point is the 2.68 acres of actual acces-
sible play space must be shared with the youth and
adults, the industrial workers and the high school

teams, thus creating a serious lack of space for all
groups concerned.

United Action Essential

What is the answer to this difficult problem?
Undoubtedly it will take years before it comes in
terms of adequate facilities. However, plans must
precede the real accomplishment. The plan must
include the vital elements of the problem which
have been briefly touched on in the foregoing dis-
cussion. The one and only way to approach it

(Continued on page 684)

One Step Back of the Bad Boy

Back of the boy is his mother. Are we giv-
ing a fair chance to the girls who will be
the mothers of the next generation of boys?

ever tried to solve for boy,

girl, man or woman, the
mother has been the important factor in the case.”
This statement was made by a psychiatrist who
directs a well known child guidance clinic.

Seated in his audience, I wanted to cry aloud,
“Then why not start with the potential mother of
the next generation and solve some of these prob—
lems at the roots? Why not give more time and
thought to the hundreds of little girls of our coun-
try who live in crowded communities and in homes
that do not measure up to the minimum accepted
standards of well-being? While they are still in
the plastic stage is the time to prepare them for
the most important job on earth, producing and
rearing our future citizens.”

Educators have told us repeatedly that the first
live years of a child’s life are the most formative,
and therefore the most significant. This is espe-
cially true of a boy. During that time he is formu-
lating the" basic ideas that will dominate his later
life.

Who is closest to him at that time? Who sup-
plies the important foundation of physical fitness?
Who is most responsible for the environment that
adjusts the sensitive mental system of a little child
for good or bad? When the mothers in the ma-
jority of homes in any community face life with
the right attitude, and have assurance that society
will safeguard them, the security of that com-
munity is assured.

We seldom stop to think that the mothers of
the majority of children in our crowded communi-
ties are not those who have had opportunity to
take courses in child care and psychology, or even
to prepare themselves in the practical sense. The
majority of mothers are not college graduates, nor
even high school graduates. Too often they have
had no desire for an education, because their en-
vironment did not prompt them to want it. School
frequently was something to “get over with,”

" BACK OF EVERY problem I have

By DORA E. DODGE
Worcester Girls' Club

like bad medicine or the measles.

The most recent report of the
United States Office of Education
shows that fewer than fifty per cent of the chil-
dren of the country stay in school after fifteen
years of age. These young people, who leave
school so early to find employment, are those who
mate early and rear the greatest number of chil-
dren. It is safe to say that the majority of homes
in most urban communities are mothered by
women who have had little education beyond the
first year of high school. Yet we expect them to
produce children mentally and physically healthy,
able to cope with present-day confusing standards,
and to develop them into citizens equipped to run
the nation.

It may be that these mothers are not succeeding
very well. Perhaps it is they who, in their mis-
fortune, are the determining factors back of many
present-day evils. But in my search for help in
formulating a leisure-time program for girls, I
have become strongly conscious of the fact that
few communities give sufficient thought to the
needs of girls in congested areas, while they still
are young enough to accept training.

Little boys are very vivid creatures. In revolt
against their environment they make themselves
felt in the community by “ganging up” and leav—
ing a trail of destroyed property, thievery, noise
and confusion. Their need of leisure-time guid-
ance was recognized early in the history of our
slum areas, and it is to the credit of the United
States that we possess the wonderful club houses
and other facilities placed in the hands of trained
men, to meet this need. There is ample proof that
leisure-time training for little boys has been a de-
cided factor in helping to stem delinquency and
crime.

Understanding the Girl

Little girls react differently to poor environ-
ment. They are just as much affected by their

667

668 ONE STEP BACK OF THE BAD BOY

surroundings but, being more individualistic, they
do not travel in gangs and they are not so de-
structive because they lack the mass courage. They
shut up within themselves the results of misery,
frustrations and resentment. While they are
young, the community is not aware that their need
of leisure-time direction is as great as in the case
of their brothers.

At about fifteen they don their warpaint and
enter the so-called “boy-crazy stage,” and for the
first time are observed and censured for their lack
of standards. Then some communities belatedly
try to do something to “keep them off the streets.”
But if they have not learned how to be safe in
the streets by this time, they are bound to be a
disappointment to their would-be benefactors.

“\Vhat to do for the bOy-crazy girl?” was the
question before the house at a recent conference
of social workers. One woman who commanded
the respectful attention of those present because
of the position she held in her city, arose and an-
swered the question with apparent finality.

“You can’t do anything for them,” she said.
“We have tried and had to admit failure. We
brought them into community centers, to teach
them child care and housekeeping and how to
make hats and dresses. But they were not inter-
ested in child care and housekeeping. Some of
them made their hats and dresses, but put them
on only to be more attractive while chasing the
boys. 80 now we just try to keep the boys busy,
and to keep them away from the girls. We can
do a great deal for the boys.”

There in a nutshell was the whole sad story of
misunderstanding of the needs of little girls—the
mothers in our congested communities, and the
vital factors in our social problems of tomorrow.
They do not want to learn housekeeping and child
care, at fifteen. But show me the little girl who
does not want to cook and play house at any age
from four to ten, or who does not want to learn
all about the care of a baby from the age of ten
to fourteen, and I’ll show you the real abndrmal
girl. Since the God—given instinct for play is the
greatest force for good or evil in a child, we must
recognize and foster it; we must apply it in
training our girls, as well as their brothers.

If they want the companionship of boys when
they are fifteen, let us give it to them. Is there
any reason why they shouldn’t have it, and aren’t
there plenty of reasons why they should?

Co-Recreation an Important Factor

About six hundred boys take part yearly in
group activities for girls fifteen and over in our
club. we could not accomplish a quarter of what
we do for the girls without their brothers and boy
friends. These mixed groups have been the san-
est and happiest I have known throughout the
depression period. They lack judgment, yes. but

they do not. lack appreciatiOn of
standards, and they keep me in touch
with the thinking of their times and
alert to the added possibilities of
making my work more effective. The
boys have been quicker to accept the
high standard we insist upon for the
mixed groups. I have found girls
willing to go wherever the boys will
take them. Again and again boys come

"I bequeath to little gi
gladnessI rhythm and lic_
and silence' for these tl
great need of. And I b
ersl birds and trees an
God's playground. and".

curiosity about growing

harvest. . . . And I bequ

runI to dance. to be free
hearth' and to wish or
evening." From "Her

 

ONE STEP BACK OF THE BAD BOY 669

back to renew membership tickets with the remark, Girls Club versus Reformatory Treatment

“This is the only Place I want to take my girl", In a recent publication of Drs. Sheldon and

Coma“ With these groups Over a periOd 0f ' Eleanor Glueck of Harvard, entitled Five Hun-
years shows plainly the difference in attitude be- dmd Delinquent Women) is an analysis of the
tween the girls Who have grown up through our lives of that many women offenders after their

C1111) Program from the ag‘? Of'SiX fmd those who release from a Massachusetts reformatory. The

come to us for the first time at Sixteen for the . authors delved back into the history of the of-

mixed group activities only. These are the girls fenders to their early girlhood. Less than ten per

who, as mothers, are likely to become involved in cent of them had had any constructive recreation

SOCial Pmblems Smce they IaCk the at any time in their lives, and a vivid picture was

'ii-heall'h- beau’W and baCkground and pOise neEded by painted of what they found in its place to fill
3' color. form. sound girls of their age. Compared with their play time_

_ iOVe and Win haVe our club girls they seem silly and
a -:eath to them flow-

all other things of
eans to satisfy their

The following quotation from the book is a
brief analysis of their early environment. “Phy-
sical and mental handicaps, broken and inadequate

shallow, and the contrast makes us
certain that we must meet the

 

‘ings {mm seed +° needs 0f girls more adequately be— homes earl u rootin of famil ties abnormal
hthem +he right to fore they reach this age, if we . ’ y p .g .  ’ .

I, dream by an open are to make progress in social ad_ env1ronmenta1 experiences, 11m1ted educational
1e first Sitar of Hie justment. _ achievement, necessity for early support, poor in-

dustrial adjustment, hazardous recreation and,
habits, unwholesome companionship and haunts,

and early signs of anti-social habits. By the time

they fell into the hands of police courts and cor-

rectional institutions they were finished products,

the failures of all our socialized efforts.” Then

they were taken into a reformatory and, for the '
first time in their lives, given medical treatment,

education, trade instruction and wholesome rec—

reation. But all this did not adjust them socially

for the rest of their lives. Most cases slipped“
back into their former habits within two years

after their release. The authors ask a very per-

tinent question: “Why should accident of arrest

and conviction result in belated furnishing of

medical treatment, education, trade instruction

and wholesome recreation, when their sisters who

do not chance to be arrested and convicted, go

without these basic advantages of civilized com-

munities P”

.ightful Heritage."

. The minimum figure of the cost per year for
keeping the five hundred women in the reforma-
tory was $250,000. When we consider how little
was accomplished for them and the community, it
is time to do some serious thinking about what
might have been done if we could have used the
money for the little girls the authors found to be
back of these social failures.

In a program such as we are attempting to
build at the Worcester Girls Club, this is what
we could have done:

First of all, we could have supplemented those
inadequate homes by giving them a cheerful club
house to play in in their leisure hours. We could

 

670 ONE STEP BACK OF THE BAD BOY

have given them contact with friendly leaders who
would make them feel that “some one cared,” and
so given them a sense of security.

By means of health examinations, which should
be required for gymnasium and swimming pool,
we could have culled out the physically unfit and
placed them under medical care in time to prevent
a much greater cost to the community. Even
those mentally unht to profit by group work with
their more fortunate sisters could have been segre—
gated and through supervised play taught habits
which make for happier living.

For the rest, we could have given them, through
graded games and dancing in our gymnasium, an
increasing desire for a healthy body and alert
mind. Fair play and loyalty, friendliness and
tolerance are by-products of team play, when the
organized games are planned for all and not just
an outstanding few. Individual skill in sports,
such as swimming and tennis, are social assets in
later life. We could have provided an opportunity
to acquire it, and so sent troops of little girls off
the street into fresh air and sunshine.

Every little girl wants to play house. We have
proved at our club house that through play we
can treat the whole field of home economics upon
a small scale and form habits of cleanliness, order
and appreciation of beauty with a direct carry-
over into the girls’ homes. Our six-to-nine—year-
olds can offer a demonstration of housekeeping
that would put many a, housewife to shame. This
demonstration includes setting the table correctly,
serving the meal and eating properly, washing
dishes, polishing silver, washing and ironing
clothes, sweeping, dusting, general cleaning, bed-
making. and putting the dolls to bed. All utensils
are large toys and the whole course is taught
through play, but many a little girl has insisted
upon setting the table at home because she knows
how, and many a little girl’s brother has mended
his manners because sister learned how things
should be done at the Girls’ Club. We never can
know how much the future homes of these girls
will beneht, but surely to an incalculable degree,
for themselves and society at large.

Not long ago a film of the Girls’ Club activities
was shown to three hundred inmates of an in-
dustrial school. These girls, ranging in age from
twelve to seventeen years, remained unresponsive
while the classes in gymnasium, music and drama-
tics registered upon the screen before them. But
when the scene changed to the homecraft kitchen
the reaction was like an electric shock. They

leaned forward, their faces became animated for
the first time and a long-drawn “Oh—h-h !” seemed
to come from the entire group. They were
absorbed watching little girls washing, ironing,
cleaning silver and bathing a baby doll. No movie
star could have asked for better attention. When
the picture ended they asked to see it again, and
to those of us watching it seemed as if they had

changed into an entirely different group of girls.

Girls of eleven and twelve years of age eagerly
join home-nursing classes simplified to meet their
understanding because, thanks to their frequent
contact with the District Nursing Society, every
one of them wants to be “nice like a nurse.” Very
few want to work for a certificate as that sounds
like drudgery, but they all love to play nurse. So
we can teach them how to bathe the baby doll,
dress and feed her properly; how to care for the
sick-room and patient. Every little girl who at-
tends one class can go away with some knowledge
and desire for better living. “Why do they all
want to be patients?” asked an interested visitor
in one class. “Because the bed is so clean,” said a
little girl shyly. “It’s the cleanest bed I ever knew
about.” And we shall never forget the Polish
mother who watched the process of baby-bathing.
Almost angrily she uttered in broken English,
“Why for them? They just play. Why couldn’t
I know, when I needed it for my baby?” When
the instructor explained that if the little girls “play
at it now” they will know when they need to
know, a light of understanding broke over the
stolid face of the mother who hadn’t known.
“Oh!” she said, “I wish I had one million dollars
to give so they all could know!” This mother has

° come closer than any other visitor to the vision

back of the club program.

Nine-year-zold Eleanor’s eyes were glowing as
she announced to the homecraft teacher, “My
mother says ‘God bless the Girls Club!’ ”

“Why did she say that?” The leader was
curious to know. '

“Well, she was tired last night, and she had all
the kids to feed and a big basket of clothes to
sprinkle and she was kind of sick, so I said, ‘You
lie on the bed and I’ll sprinkle the clothes’; but
she said, ‘No, it’d be just as hard to show you
how.’ But I told her, ‘You don’t have to tell me
how ’cause they’ve already showed me at the Girls
Club.’ So then she layed down ’n watched me do
it, and when I got it done she said, ‘God bless the
Girls Club 1’ ”

ONE STEP BACK OF THE BAD BOY 671

 

\Vhat was drudgery
to the tired mother was
fun for the little girl who had become skilled in a
household art as she played at' keeping house. And
knowing “how to do things right” means that her
own housework will seem less like drudgery.

The girls the Gluecks described were social out-
casts at fourteen. We could have given them as-
surance through hostess clubs, afternoon tea clubs
and etiquette discussion groups. The beloved cos-
metics which seem so important to girls in their
teens can open up an avenue of training in per-
sonal hygiene, when presented as beauty culture
courses instead of sermons. This training makes
girls social assets instead of outcasts, and it is a
social sin that they are so generally left to the in-
fluence of the movies, cheap magazines and beauty
advertisements, at the age when they are groping
for ideas. I

We could have taught sewing and handicraft
and provided opportunity for many hours of
happy occupations even in squalid homes. If a
girl can have instruction in knitting and dress-
making she sometimes will stay a year longer in
high school, because she does not need to “look
different” from other girls. And for the tom-
boyish ones, a hammer, nails, and saw can work
off energy that otherwise might go to waste or
actual harm.

With an eye to cultural values in future homes,
we could have created for those little girls a back-
ground of good music by means of nature danc-

Members of the Senior Department of the Girls Club
are given instructién in playing the game of pool

ing, music memory con-
tests, choruses and
operettas. It is very difficult to learn to love un-
familiar good music if you have been raised on
jazz. We could have capitalized every girl’s de-
sire to be a"‘movie star” by giving her parts to
play in a dramatic program. The finest qualities
of great characters can best be acquired by imi-
tation, and all that is bestin literature placed in the
lives of any children allowed to participate in
graded courses of dramatics.

Clare came to us at thirteen. She was a beauti-
ful girl of Greek extraction, with one of the most
expressive faces that I ever have seen. She spent
every hour of her free time in the club house,
even bringing her lunch and supper, and always
seemed reluctant to leave at closing time. She ex-
celled in dramatics and music but enjoyed every
activity of the club, and was prompt to find a
means of helping the younger girls, although she
was quiet and retiring. It soon became apparent
that she possessed a lovely singing voice and a
decided talent for music.

One day she revealed to the leader that she did
not like to go home because her mother was em-
ployed, and an unemployed man boarder who
hUng around the house “made her afraid.” So
she was welcomed at the club house during the
hours the mother was absent.

Finally, we were able to announce to her that
she had won a scholarship which entitled her to a
year of vocal training in the Girls Club Music

672 ONE STEP BACK OF THE BAD BOY

School. Clare seemed quite overcome and left the
room murmuring, “Oh !—-oh! Thank you!”

But it was a long time afterward when we
learned the real story of what that day meant to
Clare.

“That was the day when they took all of the
furniture out of our house and there wasn’t even
a bed to sleep on,” she said. “I went to the club
trying to get up courage to talk to some one be—
cause it all seemed so hopeless, but you called me
to the 083cc and told me about the scholarship

and then it seemed as if I had wings, and it didn’t .

matter about the bed any more.”

Clare spent three years with us before circum—
stances carried her to a distant city, where she
hasn’t had a very happy time. But she still writes
to us beeause the “Girls Club seems like my real
home.” And the question she asks, over and over,
the writer passes on to those who may read this
story: “Why don’t all big cities have Girls Clubs
where a girl can find real friends?”

With the $250,000 spent on the cases the
Gluecks describe, we could have put this kind of a
“real home” into the congested area of any city
and opened its doors to every girl who had need
of a “real friend.” We could have made their
friendship with boys a happy, sane adventure.
Just by granting their desire to learn to dance, we
could have taught them not only
social dancing but the etiquette of
mixing, and given them a poise
which would have put them at
their case. Through social eve—
nings and parties we could have
taught them to play together and
to accept standards they could
take pride in maintaining all
through life, instead of leaving
them to flounder through the
awkward age; and gaining their
confidence, we could have sup—
plied useful instruction for wife-
hood and motherhood, to make
future homes as secure as it is
possible to imagine them.

"Every little girl wants to play
house. We have demonstrated at
our club house that through play
we can treat the whole field of
home economics on a small scale."

,But best of all, we would not have been doing
this for five hundred potentially delinquent women,
nor even for five hundred problem girls. We

would have been doing it for every girl in any
fair-sized city who had need of our program, and
at the age when she could best absorb it. We

could have served at least 18,000 in our own club.

A Program for All Girls

The program outlined is built upon increasing
knowledge of the needs of every girl in any com—
munity. Too often the so—called “underprivileged”
girls do not come from the poorest homes, in the
sense of lack of money alone. They are just any
girls whose homes and communities do not fur—
nish the opportunity to train them for abundant
living.

It is not easy to arouse interest in the need of a
leisure—time program for little girls. Tradition
still has it that they are protected in their homes,
and tradition dies very hard. The fact that homes
may be broken, unadjusted, or in many ways
poorly equipped to provide adequate training for
life, is seldom considered in the case of the girl.
The consensus of opinion is that social work for
girls can and should be done with very little
money.

(Continued on page 684)

 

You Asked for It!

Question: The Recreation Department is plan-
ning to stage a playground pageant during the
coming summer and would appreciate your send-
ing advice and suggestions which would help us
with such a production. Does it warrant the
amount of hard work, time and expense involved?
How would one organize and rehearse a pageant
in which children from a number of city play-
grounds would participate? Would you advise
speaking parts for an out of door production?
The question of costuming frightens us, and we
would appreciate your sending information on
this special subject.

Answer: The subject of playground pageantry
is not a small one. In answering the questions
raised in your letter we can but brieHy relate gen-
eral impressions gathered from reports on these
special events conducted by recreation depart-
ments and other community agencies and from
our own personal experiences. In addition, we
would suggest that you consult in a nearby com-
munity library some of the references which are
listed at the end of this letter. We believe you
would find particularly helpful the information
and suggestions included in articles which have
appeared in back issues of the RECREATION maga-
zine. Besides practical suggestions on how to
plan, write, organize, and produce playground
pageants, there are summarizations of a number
of pageants presented by recreation departments
throughout the country. Some of these were done
in pantomime, while a reader told the story; a
few stressed music and the dance; and others fol-
lowed special production plans to get desired re-
sults. Many ,of the latter could easily be followed
or adapted for use by others.

There is probably no type of dramatic enter-
tainment that provides opportunities for the par-,
ticipation of such a large number of children, that
creates such opportunities for making use of the
abilities and talents developed through drama,
music, handcraft, dancing, games, sports, and
other activities conducted during the summer
playground period. Pageantry certainly can be
one of the highlights of the summer program. It
does provide an exciting and thrilling climax to
the playground season. Through pageantry one is
able to present productions of a size and beauty
that are not usually achieved on the restricted in-

door stage, providing countless opportunities for
originality in their staging. It is an excellent
means of bringing people together. Surely it
should be considered as one way of bringing the
work of the department to the attention of the
public.

The success of the pageant depends a great deal
on careful and thorough organization. Simple as
it may be, it should be worked out and rehearsed
in every detail. Since your pageant is to be a
fairly large one, it can be most easily handled if it
were written in distinct episodes and brought to-
gether by comments of one or more speakers sta-
tioned in positions overlooking the scene. Proba-
bly your whole cast will be brought together for
an epilogue or some sort of a finale. In this way
each episode can be handled as a unit at each of
your playgrounds, with its own casting, costum-
ing and props committees, and its separate re-
hearsals. Perhaps all of the episodes will not then
meet until the final rehearsal. Of course these
unit organizations-should be under the supervi-
sion of a director and should be rehearsed by him.
He should also be in active touch with committee
chairmen. All the staging and settings, the lights
and the large properties should be taken care of by
committees of the pageant as a whole. Careful
consideration must also be given to such special
questions as publicity, transportation, arrange-
ments for handling of large audiences and other
problems. The plan of organization will always
depend to a great extent upon the size of the pro-
duction. It will in every case rest in the hands of
the director who in turn sees that the various de-
tails are handed over to responsible committee
members.

There is no doubt that in presenting playground
pageants and other outdoor spectacles amplifica-
tion is a real problem. It is usually necessary if
the audience is to get the real pageant story. Vary-
ing circumstances and factors have to be taken
into consideration in meeting local needs. Ampli-
fication was the biggest question faced by the
Kenosha, W'isconsin, department in the produc-
tion of one of their pageants. They did not want
to restrict the action of the performers but wanted
them to be free to move not only on the pageant
stage but on the grassed area in front of the plat-

( Continued on page 686)
673

WORLD
AT

PLAY

-*l_'a'l:I=i=l"ll": 2‘3! =  v -
 .. . a . '

 

I
'I

' Q
'I

i

l c

g'q‘gl
- A-
e:—

A New Use for
Jail Stones

"’6'

'4-

 

. “an-V

THE Reading Penn-
sylvania, Department
of Public Recreation
has erected a new field
house in Baer Park
which was presented to the city twenty-five years
ago by the family of the late George F. Baer, who
for many years was president of the Board of
Public Works of the city. Situated on the slope
which leads from the lawn portion of the park to
the playing field, making it one story on one front
and two stories on the playing field side, the struc-
ture is built of solid stone most of which was
taken from the walls of the old Berks County
jail. The total cost of the building will be $26,000
the funds being provided by PWA and a city

bond issue.

THE latest play-
ground in New Or-
leans, Louisiana, will
not only provide a
much needed facility for a thickly populated neigh-
borhood, but will mean the elimination of a full
square of old Negro tenements. The city is buy-
ing the tenements for about $39,000 and will
spend approximately $75,000 in developing the
playground. This is the fourth major new play-
ground space added to the city’s facilities in about
a month's time.

Playground Replaces
Old Tenements

A letter received by
the Mayor of Wind-
sor from the King’s

private secretary an—
nounces that his Majesty has decided to give to

the corporation of Windsor eighty acres of land
ad 101n1ng Windsor Castle. The letter adds that in

(:74

Windsor Castle Land
Given for Play

 

Courtesy Reading, Pa., Department of Public Recreation

making the gift the King hopes that in consider-
ing the future use of the land the council will be
mindful of the requirements of the youth of the
district and that everything possible will be done
to provide recreation to increase physical fitness.
The land is at the side of the Thames and is over-
looked by the north terrace of the castle.

GOLF is the first
choice of Cincinnati’s
adults in so far as they
have indicated a pref-
erence for the activities conducted by the Recrea—
tion Commission. Sixteen thousand different adult
citizens have played golf at two municipal golf
courses this year. Tennis is second choice with
more than 12,000 different citizens participating.
This year both golf and tennis have had the heavi-
est play recorded in the history of the Commis-
sion, the increase in the number of golf players
being twenty per cent over any previous year.
One of the reasons for the growing popularity of
these two sports is the increase of facilities, the
number of golf courses having been doubled and
the number of tennis courts trebled in the past six
years. The second reason is the encouragement
given beginners in these sports through the reduc-
tion of permit fees, rental of equipment, and the
year-round maintenance of free golf and tennis
group instruction. Tennis and golf group lessons '
were started earlier this year than has usually
been the case. Sixteen hundred people are now

enrolled in the tennis courses, while a number of

Adult Recreation in
Cincinnati

WORLD AT PLAY 675

golf players are enjoying group lessons. The Rec—
reation Commission has greatly facilitated winter
playing of tennis by increasing the number of
hard surfaced tennis courts and making available
tennis nets and equipment to permit players con-
tinuing their games on all pleasant days.

Winter Centers in Akron — October 17
marked the opening of fourteen winter indoor
recreation centers for children and adults in
Akron, Ohio, under the supervision of the Recre-
ation Commission, supplemented by the WPA and
NYA. Ten elementary schools are open for eve-

ning programs through the cooperation of the.

Board of Education and three park shelter houses
are occupied by programs through the coopera-
tion of the Parks Department. Altogether they
represent thirty—three afternoons and evenings of
community recreation per week.

Concerts at an Art Museum—The New York
Times of January 14th mentions editorially the
symphony concerts being held at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art as a fresh illustration of the

“reaching out of, thousands toward the things of

,

beauty.’ “Last week an audience of 9,000 per;
sons, the greater part standing, listened to the
first symphony of the Brahms cycle and showed
signs of deep appreciation. The remaining three
symphonies of the series will be played on suc-
cessive Saturday nights. The arts which are rep-
resented in the galleries of the museum must look
with favor upon the gathering of such vast audi-
ences under the same roof with them, for inci-
dentally some of their own treasures are open to
the view of these added thousands.”

Workers Utilize Play Facilities—In its re-
port for 1938, the Linden, New Jersey, Recrea-
tion Commission stresses a six hundred per cent
increase since 1936 in recreation for employees of
industrial plants. Beginning with a softball league
for five teams in the first year, the program has
grown to include bowling, basketball and table
tennis, in addition to the ever popular softball in
which last year thirty-two teams participated.
Fifteen local plants, large and small, took part in
the program, including DuPont’s, General Motors,
Standard Oil, Cities Service, American Cyanamid,
General Aniline, and others. The permanent reg-
istration record system used by the Commission
shows that over 400 individuals played in one or
more leagues during the year, with 15,277 spec-

 

O 0
GAMES, DANCES

AND ACTIVITIES

k (Junior Athletics)
FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
By FRED L. BARTLETT.B.A.Director of Physical Education,Toronto
Price $2.00

In this book you will find a wide selection of
games, dances, and activities in which the pupils of
each grade of the elementary school and junior high
school can experience success.

Thus you can enlist the interests of the pupils in as
wide a range of activities as possible. Following gen-
eral suggestions for group instruction, the book con‘
tains numerous individual exercises, both corrective
and playful, adapted to the growth level, interests
and capacities of the pupils. These allow for choice
of material suitable to the particular growth periods
and organic developments of the child, his capacities,
his interests, and his previous training.

Other devices are suggested for use at the end of
the academic instructional period for relaxation and
pleasure.

n-nnn-nn-n    III-III-n-nn-
NOBLE & NOBLE PUBLISHERS, INC.

l
| I
I 100 Fifth Ave., N. Y. .
l Please mail me ...................... ..copies of Games, Dances. =
I and Activities for Physical Education (I will pay post— .
: man $2. plus few cents postage). :
: Name ........................................................................................ .. I
| Address .................................................................................... .. :
l R. M.
L_-.-----------------------------

tators for the season. In 1938 the per capita cost
for recreation was '43 cents.

\

Sioux City’s Civic Chorus—The civic chorus
which was organized several years ago in Sioux
City, Iowa, has a membership of about one hun-
dred and fifty. The Department of Recreation as
its contribution to the development of the chorus
is providing through the Board of Education a
meeting place for rehearsals and is serving as a
clearing house for ticket sales and for business
details. “The Messiah” and two other productions
make up the offerings for the current winter sea-
son. A registration fee of $1.00 per person is
charged to defray the cost of music. The director
of music of Morningside College has volunteered
his services for a number of years.

Winter Activities in Kalamazoo—The Rec-
reation Commission of Kalamazoo, Michigan, has
made provision for skating at seven locations, two
of them lighted, and for coasting slides on five
hills. Nine schools are being used for community
center activities.

676 WORLD AT PLAY

   

PLAY is SAFE with

Ex tra

Safety

In the design of Mitchell
"BEI'I'ERBILT" Playground
Apparatus Safety is the
first consideration. Mitchell
Equipment is built stronger
and heavier with extra
safety features. Diversity
of play plus high play
value are important fac-
. tors which have made

Mitchell Equipment the
acme of perfection for

school. la round and
recreatian cgrizters. Write for Free Literature

MITCHELL MANUFACTURING CO.

Dept. RM—3 MILWAUKEE. WIS.

 
  

 
     
   
   
 
   

Dependable

Playground
and

Swimming Pool
Equipment

   
      
       
               
      

        
       

Women’s Division to Meet—The Women’s
Division of the N.A.A.F. will hold its annual
meeting on April 2nd at the Hotel VVhitcomb, San
Francisco, California. There will be greetings
from Mrs. Herbert Hoover and Dr. Margaret
Bell, president elect of the American Association
for Health, Physical Education and Recreation.
Speakers will include Dr. Jay B. Nash of New
York University, Dr. Rosalind Cassidy of Mills
'College, and Miss Mabel Lee of the University of
Nebraska. Reports will be presented from the
executive committee of the Women’s Division and
from state committees. A number of sectional
meetings have been scheduled from March 28th
to 3Ist, with a meeting in New York from May
3rd to 6th. Further information may be secured
from Miss Mary Van Horn at the headquarters
of Women’s Division, 303 West 42nd Street, New

York City.

The Elizabeth Civic Orchestra—The Christ—
mas concert presented by the Elizabeth, New Jer—
sey, Civic Orchestra offered an interesting sam—
pling of the programs presented by this group
which is sponsored by the Recreation Commis-
sion. On the back of the program appeared this
invitation: “It is hoped that many of the young
musicians who graduate from our high schools
will continue their music with the Elizabeth Civic
Orchestra.”

A Convention on Education for Character
and Citizenship—On March 23-25 the Chicago
Convention of the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship will be held at
the University of Chicago. The general theme
will be “Education Today for Character and Citi-
zenship.” Many topics relating to this general

theme will be discussed at the four general ses-
sions of the convention and at the numerous con-
ferences and discussion groups which are being
arranged. At one of the general sessions current
problems will be discussed by young people who
will present a variety of points of view. Discus-
sions and speeches will deal with realities rather
than generalities, and reports will cover concrete
problems and achievements. Further information
may be secured from the National Council on
Education for Character and Citizenship, 5732
Harper Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Recreation or Mal-Creation?-——In a review of

Dr. Jerome Davis’ book, “Capitalism and Its Cul-

ture,” Dr. Philip L. Seman of Chicago mentions
particularly Dr. Davis’s discussion of recreation,
which in our society he thinks often becomes mal-
creation. Much of our commercialized recreation
Dr. Davis places in this category, since he be-
lieves it creates negative values. Recreation,
which should provide wholesome re-creation of
the individual and group, has in his opinion fallen
into the hands of proht-makers. Dr. Davis points
out that probably the two most important forms,
of recreation in the commercial field are the radio
and the moving pictures, the moving picture in-
dustry ranking fourth in importance in the an-
nual production of America. It represents an in-
vestment of some $2,000,000,000, and there are
more than 22,000 moving picture theaters in the
United States. Each week some 77,000,000 peo-
ple attend the movies, 11,000,000 of them under
fourteen years of age. The moving picture in-
dustry spends about $5,000,000 a year in adver-
tising alone. America controls about ‘80 per cent
of the world’s production.

Nature Study in Santa Barbara—The Santa
Barbara, California, Recreation Commission has
given a series of talks on animal and bird life
illustrated with motion pictures and slides. Such
subjects have been covered as housekeeping of the

wasp; how the racoon lives; natives of Glacier
Park; and Catalina bird cages.

Civic Sports in New York City—More than
600,000 rounds were played last year on New
York City’s municipal golf courses. Golf is only
one of a number of sports fostered by the com-
munity. During the summer New Yorkers have
the use of a strategically located group of splen—
dld swimming pools which in the winter are

WORLD AT PLAY 677

turned into ice skating or roller skating rinks.
There are municipal yacht basins for small sailing
craft and motor boats. The city playgrounds are
equipped for every form of juvenile sport, and
there are football fields, baseball diamonds and
tennis courts. In two of the parks cricket fields
are to be found. There are municipal bridle
paths, lanes for bicycling, ski runs and toboggan
slides. One can go dancing or pitching horseshoes
at the city’s invitation. “In fact,” says The New
York Times of December 3rd, “there are no rich
men’s sports any more. Just being a citizen with
a modest pocketful of change and reasonably
good manners entitles one to recreation which a
century ago would have been a luxury.”

A Colored Work Conference—This year the
regional conference of recreation workers, with
colored groups promoted by the National Recrea-
tion Association, will be held at Raleigh, North
Carolina, beginning Sunday, April 2nd, and ex-
tending through April 3rd and 4th. Mr. E. T.
Attwell, I'lClCl director of the Bureau of Colored
Work, will preside at the sessions. The local ar-
rangements will be cared for by a committee of
citizens of which Reverend E. C. Lawrence, 708
Manly Street, is chairman. G. M. Matlack, Di-
rector.of Recreation of the Raleigh Recreation
Commission, St. Augustine’s College, and Shaw
University are cooperating in making arrange-
ments for the conference. Colored workers super-
vising community recreation programs in cities,
towns, or counties in the Southeast and adjacent
territory, and colored executives in recreation
projects are planning to attend.

Huge Camp Site Presented—The Executive
Board of the National Council, Boy Scouts of
America, has accepted a gift from Mr. and Mrs.
Waite Phillips of Tulsa, Oklahoma, of 35,857
acres of wilderness a few miles northwest of
Cimarron, New Mexico and $50,000 to be used in
improving and developing the land for camping
purposes.

Church Recreation — Plans, fun and pro-
grams for young people were announced by the
Collingwood Presbyterian Church of Toledo,
Ohio, as it opened its community house for the
fall season. The cover page of the announcement
states that “Guidance, not repression, is our
policy” and quotes “A Merry Heart Doeth Good

Like a Medicine,” from Proverbs 17:22. The
purpose of the recreational department of the

 

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE
May 29 -]une 16, 1939

Western Reserve University

0 A three weeks’ institute for experienced group
workers including credit courses in Principles of
Group Work, Supervision in Group Work, Work with

Individuals in Groups. The Use of the Creative Arts
in Group Work, and Methods of Workers' Education.

A bachelor's degree from a. college or approved
standing is required for admission.

For information address
SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Western Reserve University
Cleveland, Ohio

church is stated to be a means to an end, a train-
ing ground for young people in Christian living.
It is affirmed that in this department it is possible
for the young people of the community to learn
more about getting along with people and practic-
ing Christianity during the impressionable years
than in any other place in the community. The
broad outlook of the leadership of this enterprise
is indicated by the following statement. “This en-
tire church plan is not only intended for the ser—
vice of our congregation but of the entire com-
munity. Group meetings of a civic and social
welfare nature will be welcome.”

The National Story league

An organization replete with in-
terest for all those interested
in the age-old art of
Story Telling

Teachers, mothers, church and social
workers, recreation and scout leaders
are among our members.

Story Art, a magazine for Story Tell-

ers, is issued six times a year by the
National Story League.

Quarterly bulletins are issued by the
various districts and departments.

The 1939 year book, of special inter-
est to schools and libraries, will be

ready March 15.

For information address

ADLYN M. KEFFER. President

Marysville. R. D. 1
Pennsylvania

 

678 WORLD AT PLAY

    
 
  
  
  
    
    
  

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DGTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories;

the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Book: 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

Swimming Pool Data and

Reierence Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. Vl)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..
payable to Earl K. Collins

Make your plans for the
RECREATION CONGRESS!

The Twenty-Fourth National Recreation Congress
will be held in Boston, Massachusetts

OCTOBER 9 - '3. I939
Headquarters will be at the Hotel Statler

Additional information will be
issued at an early date

 

A Handcraft Exhibit—The Recreation De-
partment of Springfield, Illinois, had a display of
handcraft articles at the State Fair, and as an ad-
ditional feature the Department presented a series
of transparencies illustrating the activities of the
playground program. These pictures will be used
on various occasions throughout the year.

Recreation in a West Virginia County —
Under the sponsorship of the Monongalia County,
West Virginia, Recreation Council recreational
progress is being made. New centers are being
formed and new clubs organized. One of the new
centers in process of organization is at Laurel
Point, seven miles from Morgantown, in a rural
area which will serve four small communities. A
games institute fer workers was held in Septem-
ber at which workers were asked to learn how to
play 120 different games including relays and
quiet, active, singing and rhythm games. The ex-
amination proved that the average worker could
name and teach seventy-three games at the end of
the conference.

Tulsa, Oklahoma, to Serve as Host—From
March 27th to 30th, Tulsa, Oklahoma, will enter-
tain the members of the Southern Section of the
American Association of Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation whose members will meet
in convention on those dates. An interesting pro-
gram is being prepared. Delegates from the
southern meeting will go on to San Francisco to
attend the national convention.

A Community House for Wabash, Indiana—
Wabash, Indiana, is to have a new community
house as the result of a referendum vote with
3,790 favorable votes and 700 opposed. The com-

munity’s provision for $6,000 was successful with
$200 “over the top.”

Model Airplanes—Making model airplanes is
a very popular activity in Akron, Ohio, and plane

WORLD AT PLAY (.79

construction is going on at seventeen afternoon
extracurricular centers, nine evening centers, and
in the homes of fourteen shut-ins. According to
the annual report of the Recreation Commission,
4,000 models were constructed during the fall,
and approximately 5,000 boys and girls are en-
rolled. Materials and leadership are furnished
by the Commission.

Recreation as a Curb to Drink—The New 
York State Liquor Authority announces thata 
survey has disclosed a link between poor recrea- .

tion facilities and “temptation to excessive drink-

ing.” Opinions were gathered from recreation ‘ 7- For P| ayground and
authorities and home demonstration agents en- ..  Recreational Departments
gaged in extension work by the state. Consensus ,

of opinion was that in most rural communities the I. Complete Line of
recreational facilities lagged behind those in urban ’ . Equipment For all Sports

centers. Commissioner Henry E. Bruckman,
Chairman of the Authority, has urged “a com-
plete study of the recreational needs and oppor-
tunities of the state.”

To Promote Square Dancing —— Under the

auspices of the El Paso, Texas, Square Dance
Council a national square dance contest was held  P -   Inc-
on December 31st. The contest was open to all JOHN AND FINDLAY SIS, CINCINNATI, OHIO

squares, each of which consisted of four couples.
Each group contesting furnished its own callers
and music was supplied by the Council. Winners
were determined by a process of elimination,

Play Space in -
judging being 0n the basis of ease, gracefulness, New borhoods

uniformity, and the fewest number of mistakes.

0 Last OCtober the Society of Recreation
Workers of America requested the Na-
tional Recreation Association to appoint
a committee to draw up Standards for
outdoor recreation areas in housing de-
velopments.

Appraisal of Extracurricular Activities —
Pupils were asked to state which activity had,
during the year, given them the greatest satis-
faction. The per cents voting for the several
activities were as follows: athletics and sports,
37.9; literary activities, 9.2; musical activities,
9.0; social, stunts, etc., 5.4; religious, service,
and character building activities, 3.1; student
government, 2.6; publications, 2.1; vocational
activities, 2.0; academic clubs, 1.6; assemblies,
1.4; hobby activities, 1.0; miscellaneous, 10.6;

The committee, assisted by an advis-
ory committee of city planners and '
housing experts, has presented its report
and recommendations which will be of
interest to recreation ofiicials and many

blank, I4_I_ Other groups.

(From “What secondary SChOOl Pupils Send for a copy of Play Space in New
Think of Pupil Activities,” by Walter C. . Neighborboodh just 0E the Press.
Eells.)

. . . Price $.25

Community Sings in Washington Square—

Every civic organization in Greenwich Village   

joined with the local publication, The Villager, .
in promoting community sings in Washington 315 Fourth Avenue New York CRY

Square during the summer months. The first

 

680 SPECIAL RECREATION PROGRAM FOR NATIONAL CONVENTION

Special Recreation Program
for National Convention

N CONNECTION with the National Convention of
I the American Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation to be held in San Fran-
cisco, California, April 3—6, there will be a recre-
ation demonstration on April 5 presenting the ac-
tivities and accomplishments of the San Francisco
Recreation Commission. Miss Josephine D..Ran-
dall, Superintendent of Recreation, is program
chairman for the demonstration in which several
hundred young people will participate. A number
of musical groups will take part in the program.
The Junior Civic Symphony Orchestra, which will
play the overture and all musical accompaniments,
is composed of sixty young men and women inter-
ested in music and group playing. During the
past year the orchestra has illustrated the con—
structive nature of its accomplishments in several
concerts, one at the San Francisco Museum of
Art, two at the midsummer musicals held at the
Sigmund Stern recreation grove, and at the Civic
Christmas Festival in the Opera House.

The junior and senior dance groups are com—
posed of girls of high school age and of young
women who may or may not be attending school.

The playing of games to music is an activity
that is currently receiving considerable attention.
A number of play groups in San Francisco, par-
ticularly basketball teams, have experimented with
the idea, and it has been interesting to observe
how quickly the players sense the fact that each
of the several elements of every game has its own
peculiar rhythm and how smoothly they coordi-
nate the movements of the game to the rhythm of
the music. With the musical accompaniment a
game becomes a veritable symphony of movement.
This will be vividly illustrated at the demon-
stration.

The work of camera club members will beon
exhibit, and there will be a showing of colored
films portraying the activities of the Recreation

Department in dancing, games, dramatics, hand—
craft, and other activities.

h

 

sing was attended by more than 400 persons.
Intended to develop a community spirit akin to
the “little villages most of us left behind,” the
various groups of Greenwich Village were well
represented. In this heterogeneous 'group of
people, however, some of the songs like “Old

Black Joe” and “The Long, Long Trail,” were
scarcely familiar. The sing was led by Allen
Hinkley, Director of the Village Light Opera
group. Miss Ida Tarbell is honorary president
of the Villager League of Friendship.

Golf at Bargain Rates !—On November Ist
the Winter schedule of greens fees at the
Galloping Hill course maintained by the Union
County, New Jersey, Park System, went into
effect making it possible for players during
cold weather to make use of the course at
bargain rates. Through the new schedule,
Union County residents will be able to play all
day, any day, for 50 cents. The fee for non-
residents will be double this amount. Advance
registration, which has proved very successful,
will be continued in spite of the lower rates.

Official Sports Library for Women—The
Official Sports Library for Women prepared
by the National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, formerly pub-
lished by the American Sports Publishing
Company, is now being issued by A. S. Barnes
and Company, 67 West 44th Street, New York
City. The booklet on basketball has appeared.
Other guides to be published during the winter
and spring will include Individual Sports,
Recreational Games and Sports, Aquatics,
Softball—Volley Ball, Soccer—Speedball, Field
Hockey and Lacrosse. These booklets will be
available at 25 cents each. It will be possible,
however, to subscribe for the entire library by
paying $2.00. Each new volume will be sent
the subscriber immediately upon publication.

John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Is Honored—On
January 25th John D. Rockefeller, Jr., who be-
tween 1017 and 1937 contributed $17,871,533 for
the restoration and preservation of historic struc-
tures and antiquities and $20,928,755 for public
parks and roads, was the recipient of the award
for distinguished service for conservation made
by the trustees of Public Reservations, a Massa-
chusetts organization.

The Traditional in Recreation

(Continued from page 646)

together in continuing survivals wherever it is
possible, making revivals where it is necessary,
While there is still a pattern to go by we can do

THE PARKS OF METROPOLITAN CLEVELAND 681

much in creating a “roots-in-the—soil” culture, at
the same time giving joy to thousands who want
to sing and dance and play.

This is, of course, the chief concern of recrea-
tipn leaders in the challenging present, when lei—
sure time, with the search for constructive uses,
sweeps over us like the tidal wave.

The Parks of Metropolitan Cleveland

(Continued from page 648)
cooperation. with the Cleveland Museum of Nat-

ural History and with Dr. Arthur B. Williams,
park naturalist, four nature trails have been kept
constantly labeled, and two field museums have
been maintained with a naturalist constantly in
charge during the summer. Lectures are given at
the council ring at the museum on Saturday and
Sunday afternoons and on holidays.

During the spring bird walks are conducted in
at least two of the reservations. Garden clubs
have shown an increasing interest in the parks,
and some of them have furnished plant material
for various locations. '

Eleven camps were in operation during 1936-
1937. Permits for various organizations main-
taining children’s camps in the parks are cleared
through the Cleveland Camp Council operating
under the Welfare Federation. This group certi-
lies to the need of the camping service, the ade-
quacy of its personnel, facilities and services,
health and sanitary standards of the program.

Provision is constantly being made for active
recreation, and as new areas are opened up and
new picnic grounds provided, additional play or
ball fields are established. Riding trails have in-
creased, and more riding stables have been built.
The return to popularity of the bicycle has re-
sulted in the building of a bicycle path through
the Rocky River reservation. Bathing facilities
have been improved, and golf courses are main-
tained at a high level. Under the Cleveland
Archery Club this sport has become popular. En—
couragement is given to winter sports, and coast—
ing, skating, and skiing are enjoyed when the
weather permits.

Close cooperation with the Girl Scouts, Boy
Scouts, Y.M.C.A., Y.VV.C.A., and other local
groups has resulted in an extensive use of the
areas. It is estimated that there is an annual at-
tendance in the metropolitan parks of approxi-
mately 5,000,000 people.

During the past twelve years steady, consistent
progress has been made under Mr. Stinchcomb’s

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME Slay.

I4l7 ' 80th. Ave.

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARRDWS

OF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest

plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form, building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

Pine Bluff. Ark.

BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. RS

 

leadership, and a number of plans have been out—
lined for further development, including a west
side shore line highway with developments which
would involve a total cost of about $14,000,000.

Mr. Stinchcomb has been the recipient of many
honors. He was president of the American Ins—
titute of Park Executives in 1936—1937. He is a
trustee of the Ohio Engineering Society, a fellow
of the American Engineering Society, a directoro
of the Automobile Association of America, and
chairman of its committee on terminal and park
facilities. He is vice-president of the Cleveland
Automobile Association and of the Ohio State
Automobile Association, and chairman of the
PVVA Board of Ohio. He is a past president of
the Cleveland Kiwanis Club and the Cleveland
City Club, and has served two terms as a director
of the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce which
last year gave him the Cleveland medal for public
service with the following citation:

“The Cleveland Medal for Public Service is
bestowed upon William A. Stinchcomb as a living
testimonial of the regard in which he is held by

(Continued on page 682)

 

 

Minimum Space Required. 32 inches by 20 feet

 
   
   
  
     
 

MALABLE CAST IRON ° WHITE PLATED

  

ONE SET cousmrs on: 4 PUSH CUES and Will
6 DISC ( 3 A's and 3 6'5) owl”,
PRICE in.” per Set , Delivered 2 0" 3

cuRvm mom- GMS wooden sot:

POSITIVE (ON TROL IN

SHOOTING TH: Disc.

ERASS PIVOT. CURVED BACK FOR

Tm: rum-as: or
PLACING “ma DISC
0N 51mins LINE.

 
 
 
  
   

 
 

9ATINVII
AND “‘6...

CHAS. H.WILSON Oakland,Colif.

682 RECREATION CENTER FOR ALTON, ILLINOIS

Recreation Center for
Alton, Illinois

By JEAN PATTERSON COUSLEY
Alton Evening Telegraph

ALF A MILLION DOLLARS for recreation is the

dream of enterprising Altonians who are
basing their vision on an expected PWA grant of
$225,000 and the probability of Hoating a local
bond issue of $275,000.

\Vith the half million in hand, plans are under
way to build a recreation center for the city of
Alton whose population of over thirty thousand
has never had available a municipal auditorium, a
skating rink, or a place to stage commercial and
industrial shows of local interest. The community
center will have space for many forms of recrea—
tion including, besides the main auditorium which
will seat 5,000, a Little Theater to seat 400. Ad-
.ditional rooms may be had for club rooms, ping-
pong, billiards, and perhaps a ride range.

The central auditorium, versatile in its make-
up, may be turned from a skating rink into a
dance floor overnight. The floor will be designed
to accommodate four basketball games at once.
Acoustics in the auditorium are being considered
so that when the huge stage at one end is the
scene of a concert, spectators may hear equally
well from the side bleachers and center seats cov—
ering the basketball courts.

The plan of supervised recreation which may
be enjoyed by masses, who heretofore have
crossed the Mississippi river to enjoy stunts and
sports in St. Louis auditoriums, is not a new one.
Vague plans for such recreation centers were re-
cently shaped into more tangible form when the
Mayor appointed a citizens’ committee of three
city aldermen and several business men, as well
as the manager of the Recreation Commission, to
investigate possibilities.

An architect's plan for the 320 foot by 200 foot
building has been secured and a resolution is to
be drafted to put before the city council in regard
to the bond issue. The plan has been enlarged
since its inception, so that the money used in
the recreation center will include the building
of a separate smaller center for Alton’s Negro
pOpulation.

A tentative site for the modern building is cen-
trally located between the city’s two most thickly
populated sections. The center, it is planned, will

also draw from Alton’s fast growmg subdivisions
near the east end of town. Near—by industrial
workers and their families will not have far to go
to find their fun. The tract tentatively chosen
also allows for expansion of grounds which event-
ually will include landscaping, baseball diamonds,
and tennis courts. A wooded land to the north of
the site will furnish ideal picnic grounds. The site
is on one of the city’s through streets.

If plans for the recreation center are success-
ful, Alton’s need for community recreation will
some day be embodied in a beautiful modern
building of stone and glass where crowds may
seek an interesting, wholesome diversion in their
leisure time.

On January 24, 1939, Alton voted favorably on
a playground and recreation tax referendum, au—
thorizing a minimum tax of one and one-third
mills on each dollar of assessed valuation for play-
ground and recreation purposes. This will make it
possible for the city to enlarge its program and
help meet growing needs.

The Parks of MetrOpolitan Cleveland
(Continued from page 681)

his fellow citizens for exemplifying to them the
highest type of the career man in public service.
Appointed assistant city engineer thirty—six years
ago, he has employed his unusual professional
talents almost continuously since in advancing the
interests of this community. In particular he has
made an enduring contribution to the public wel-
fare in the upbuilding of the Metropolitan Park
System, whose trustees he has served as director-
secretary for sixteen years. For this posterity, as

well as the present generation, will remember him
gratefully.”

A Mad March Hare Party

(Continued from page 660)

large front hall (which was on the way to the
commons) where, grouped appropriately around
a long table, sat Alice, the March Hare, the Dor-
mouse and the Mad Hatter. With necessary prop-
erties, such as a tea pot, plates and cups, bread
and butter sandwiches, a worthless watch, which
would with impunity be dipped into a cup of tea,
and other accessories, these players dramatized
the Tea Table Scene from Alice (Chapter VII).
to the entire satisfaction of the audience. At its
close, when Alice arose in disgust to leave the

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 683

Mad Hatter’s table, she invited all to follow her
to the commons, where they might find a real tea
party.

Refreshments, served at daintin decorated
tables, consisted of a mixed fruit salad, nut-bread
and butter sandwiches, tea, and frosted cookies
cut out in the shape of rabbits. After refresh-
ments there was a brief “sing.” On mimeographed
sheets were the words of a half dozen of the
poems appearing in Alice, and for each one a
familiar tune had been discovered. Guided by a
pianist and a song leader, the crowd joined in with
a vigor and enthusiasm matched only by that of
Father William himself. '

At 10:30 the party was ended with a short
speech by the Mad Hatter, and the crowd soon
emerged from the magic underground realm of

Wonderland.

Skiing Comes to Essex County

(Continued from page 661)
for a fast contestant overtaking a slow one to pass
him without danger of fouling. Although there
were forty-nine entries and the maximum distance
was 3,300 meters, by starting them in pairs every
thirty seconds and turning the Juniors off at‘ a
point where they could finish on a slope after 800
meters, and the Intermediates where they could
complete 2500 meters before finishing on the same
slope, we were able to have the last Senior cross
the hnish line in less than thirty minutes from the
time the gun was fired.

The best time for the Juniors was 3’-28”, the
best for the Intermediates II’-I4” and for the
Seniors 15’-55”.

Every one who entered received a green con-
testant’s ribbon, while those taking first, second,
and third place in each class were given blue, red,
and gold ribbons respectively. Those establishing
the best time in their classes received small silver
cups.

From the enthusiasm exhibited by contestants,
parents, and spectators alike, there is no question
that the cross-country ski race will be an annual
affair, and that skiing has come to stay in Essex
County. Our next sponsored contest will, by pop-
ular request, doubtless be a slalom race, for we
have a 3200 foot trail in South Mountain reserva-
tion that is replete with curves, the grades varying

from 10 per cent to 30 per cent.
NOTE: The photograph shows the judges and the first
nineteen contestants to finish in the Intermediate class

(2500 meters).

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

       

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Educational Sociology, January 1939

The Support of Public Education in the United

States, with Special Reference to Negro Schools
by Fred McCuistion

The Parents’ Magazine, February 1939

For the Sake of Our Children by Clara Savage
Littledale, Editor (An Editorial)

Recreation News, January 1939

(Chicago Park District)
Archery

Parks and Recreation, January 1939

Cost Accounting for Park Departments
by R. R. Murphy

Child Life, February 1939

Let’s Build a Wren House by James Marquette
Outdoors and Indoors in February

by Verna G. McCulIy

'The Phi Delta Kappan, December 1938

(Issue devoted to Camping Education)
Socialization of the Camps by Raleigh Schorling
(Editorial Comment)
Camping, A School Responsibility by Jackson R.
Sharman (Editorial Comment)
The National Park Service and Camping
National Park Camp Areas

Camping World, January 1939
Morale Goes to Camp by Robert C. Marshall

The Nation’s Schools, February 1939
Evaluating a Club Program by Enid S. Smith

The Regional Review, January 1939

Signs and Labels for Nature Trails
by VVilIiam H. Carr, Director

Bear Mountain Trailside Museum, Palisades Inter-
state Park, Bear Mountain, New York

National Park Service, Region One, Richmond,
Virginia

Playing Fields, October 1938
A Playing Fields Association for South Africa

Rural America, November 1938
Rural Family Life, by Mrs. Raymond Sayre

Religious Education, October-December 1938

The Current Needs of Youth and the Church
by Hedley S. Dimock

Review of Educational Research, October 1938

Trends in School Architecture and Design
by Howard Dwight Smith

The Guardian, January 1939

What’s Right with America?
Hermann Hagedorn)

(Submitted by

The School Government Chronicle and Education Review

December 1938 o .
Cultural Centres in Rural Areas (Editorial)

684 THE PROBLEM OF COMMUNITY RECREATION

The Regional Review, December 1938

How a State Operates Organized Camps
by R. 'A. \Valker'

School and Society, December 24, 1938 . _
Garden Villages for Children in Great Britain
Policies on Public Service Training of the Regents

of the University of the State of New York

Public Education (Pennsylvania), January 1939
Teacher Education and Certification, by Henry
Klonower and Harry L. Kriner

Illinois Physical Education News, December 1938
Where Are We Going? by A. H. Pritzlaff

The Womans Press, January 1939
The Year 1939, by Rhoda E. McCulloch
Social Action and the Group Worker, by Margaret
Williamson

Collective Bargaining in Ideas (The Role of the
Volunteer, by Mrs. Ralph P. Merritt)

The Municipality, January 1939
Mid-Year Park and Recreation Conference

School Activities, January 1939
Los Angeles County Toy Loan

The Journal of Health and Physical Education
January 1939
The Dance in the Museum, by Grant Code

PAMPHLETS

National Story League

Year Book 1937-1938. Obtainable from Headquar—
ters, Marysville, R. D. 1, Pennsylvania. Price 25¢

Recreational Interests of College Alumni and Their
Evaluation of College Physical Education presented
by Professor H. S. DeGroat, Springfield College, at

meeting of College Physical Education Association,
December 1938. (Abstract of Thesis submitted by
John R. Newell, July 1938)

Catalogue of Recreational Activities in New York ’City,
January 1939
Issued by U. S. Works Progress Administration for
the City of New York, Recreation Project, 70
Columbus Avenue, New York City

Golf for the Common Man

(Continued from page 662)

enough to keep their game up to the place where
they can enjoy standard golf competition.

Possibly the use of this plan will enable more
people to play because it will cost less to keep the
novice course in reasonable shape and, hence, less
to pay; it will take less time to play because of
less hunting for balls and reduced putting time
on the greens, thus enabling the semi-busy to
play; and fewer will be discouraged-in their ef-

fort to make golf one of their leisure time
activities.

The Problem of Community Recreation

in a Manhattan Neighborhood

' (Continued from page 666)
satisfactorily is through joint planning of all

grOUps who have an interest or stake in the com-

munity. The city, the local businesses, the large
industries, the unions, the public and private rec-
reation organizations, the churches, the schools
and civic groups in the community working to-
gether can do much in this direction.

In Chelsea such an association has been or—
ganized, with fifty active member groups partici-
pating in a program of neighborhood improve-
ment. The Chelsea Association for Planning and
Action aims to provide a medium through which
the man on the job, the mother in the tenement,
youth from the local teams and clubs, the politi-
cian, the welfare worker, the churchman, the busi-
ness man and the property owner can attempt to
understand the needs of each other throngh joint
consideration of their common problems within a
icighborhood. The Association recognizes that
local self-organized groups often think of their
needs as a separate entity and without relation to
the same needs in other neighborhoods. There-
fore it has made an attempt to study local prob-
lems in relation to the city plan and the program
of the city administration. By this method Chel-
sea is focusing its attention on the recreation prob-
lem in its broadest aspects. The Association,
however, recognizes that the one hope for blighted
areas, such as Chelsea, where there is a concen-
tration of employment, will be the progress of the
rehousing program now under way. Low rent
government projects, housing the lower income
groups within walking distance of their employ-
ment, will reduce the continual shifting of popula-
tion and will stabilize land values and make pos-
sible improvements that have been considered too
costly heretofore. Ultimately this program will
provide a kind of community pattern where all
recreation needs are more adequately met.

One Step Back of the Bad Boy

(Continued from page 672)

Because of the individualistic tendency of girls,
constructive work of mass grOUps becomes ex-
tremely difficult. With the right equipment it can
be done at as low per capita cost as for boys, but
I See no reason to believe it can or should be done
more cheaply.

The idea that the sponsorship of girls’ work is
a “woman’s job” also seriously retards interest in
the need. Women seldom are philanthropists in
this type of work. Many wealthy men once were
poor boys and most men never get too far away

CACTUS CLUBS IN CALIFORNIA 685

from their boyhood, but few wealthy women
were ever very needy and to them the poor little
girl is an entirely different creature.

Boyhood and dirt are linked together without
too drastic results, and even in rags a small boy can
be most appealing, while a dirty, skinny little girl,
unattractiver clad, is a bit hard to accept as a
possible useful citizen. So those of us who are
deeply conscious of this great need find it difficult
to awaken the response necessary to do much
about it. It is not easy to interpret the almost in-
articulate voices of these little waifs, but if they
could speak of their need, their plea would be
something like this:

“We are the girl children of the American
SIUmS. We were born into a mad world which
shuts out light, pollutes air and prohibits grass,
flowers, trees, birds and sweet silence and all other
things that God meant for our playground; hav—
ing them, we might understand life. We were
born into a world that substitutes instead crowded
homes and streets,,filth, noise and crime, and bids
us find among them our place to play. Play is our
most important business, because what and where
we play determines how we shall grow and what
we shall become. We have capacity for beauty in
all its forms, sound, motion and composition; but
we can absorb as easily ugliness, discord, and dis—
organization. So it seems strange to us that the
world takes so little heed of what we are about.

“We may not seem so important to some be-
cause we are the girl children. Our brothers will
grow up to be men who will build or break the
nation, who will solve its problems and build its
bridges and temples, or who will rob its banks,
terrorize its people and conceivably destroy it. So,
if the world sets them straight, it would seem to
have met the need.

“But listen, 0 people of America, and we will
tell you a secret. We hold in our small hands a
power that is gigantic; a force that is ours to use,
either for good or for evil. We procreate life
itself, and once it exists we mould it through its
most precious years, for the strength or the weak-
ness of the nation. Try as you will, you cannot
undo all of the good or all of the bad that we can
put into the first few years of the lives of our
children.

“We are potential motherhood, the greatest
force in life.

“G0 one step back of the boy and build upon
us, if you truly would raise aloft the standard of
humanity and keep it there secure and unsullied.”

Cactus Clubs in California

IN FEBRUARY, 1935, a group of lovers of “cacti
and other succulents” began meeting once a
week under the sponsorship of the Los Angeles
Playground Department with Manchester Play-
ground as Headquarters. The attendance at these
meetings was around thirty to fifty each week.
The study of succulents was taken up seriously,
and clear and concise instruction in preparing ex-
hibits for shows was one of the main features.
Since that time the “Los Angeles Cacti and
other Succulents Show” has become one of the
horticultural events of Southern California in
beauty, in horticultural standards, and in educa-
tional value. Last year the Southwest Cactus
Growers gave their annual show in the spacious
gymnasium at Manchester. It ran for two days
and was free to the public. There was an average
attendance of 9,000 to 10,000 visitors and some
fifty exhibitors. Ribbons were awarded by the
Recreation Department and CUps were presented
by city and county officials and by local business
associations. Each year many fine educational ex-
hibits are entered, and the use of succulents in

decorative arrangements and landscape work is
ably demonstrated.

Less than a year after the first meeting of the
cactus club, a plot of ground was set aside at
Manchester Playground for a succulent garden,
plants to be furnished and cared for by the mem-
bers of the group. The Southwest Succulent Gar-
den lies in one corner on a perfectly flat piece of
ground, but in ’spite of this handicap it is being
steadily landscaped and planted, with plants cor-
rectly labelled and the botanist and habitat given.
Much of the work is done on Sunday mornings
since most of the members are employed during
the week. Trips are taken often to study the
plants in their natural growing locations, and re-
cently a trip lasting several days was made by
caravan into Lower California.

The plants are constantly segregated according
to geographical nativity, and the garden eventually
will be of considerable value to the student of
this type of plant. The succulents include around
20,000 plants and cover the globe. Some of the
Sedums and the Sempervivums come from cold
countries; Aeoniums, Kalanchoes and Euphorbias
from tropical climes, while cacti ranging from the
Canadian Border to the southern line of Argentina
and from hot deserts to high mountain peaks, are
found only in the Western Hemisphere. All of

686 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

 
  
 

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing — or
not doing —

To lay the foundation for good citizenship
To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

 
   
  
 

  

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

 
   
   
   
    

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

Leaders of Other Character Building
Agencies

 
 
    
     
   
  

Miss Maria Leonard, Dean of Women, Uni-
versity of Illinois, says: "I wish to tell you how
much help I feel CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP
is to us who are trying to build youth. The name
of the magazine itself emphasizes the two great-
est goals in building youth. The sooner that
character and citizenship can be made the basis
not only of all human relations but of education

itself. the sooner a new era will be ushered into
America."

 
       
   
   
   
   
     
 
  

  

Send your order to

National Council on Education
for Character and Citizenship

5132 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

.F'---'----------

 
  

      
    

. 0 Please record my name as a sub-
,' scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
" SHIP as checked below.

[___| One year subscription at $2.00

        
   
 
 

NAME ............................................................................ ..

  
   
 

ADDRESS  

   

Cmr .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

  

   
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

these genera and many of the species are being
acquired by the Garden through donations or
trades, while a nearly complete collection of Cali—
fornia cacti has been picturesquely arranged in an
individual planting. It is the earnest hope of Don
B. Skinner, leader of the Cactus Growers, that
this garden will be developed into an instructive
and beautiful affair.

One of the outgrowths of this enterprise is the
Junior Garden Club whose members number over
thirty and range in age from three to twelve years.
The enthusiasm of these youngsters is remarkable.
They are usually early and waiting at the door on
regular meeting days. They work earnestly at
removing offensive weeds, and instruction is given
them in transplanting, watering, cultivation, pro-
pagation, etc.

At first glance it might seem inadvisable to take
such small children into so spiny a place as a gar-
den of cacti, but a short period of observation
proves the value of the lessons learned. The chil-
dren, of course, must be careful not to step on the
plants; they soon learn the penalty of forgetful-
ness. Each child makes a selection and takes home
a plant after each garden session, and although
other types of plants may be chosen usually it is a
succulent of some kind which is carried carefully
away with a card bearing its name, 'cherished in a
grimy hand. Who knows—perhaps a future bot-
anist or famous plantsman is being born.

The Recreation Department has earned much
gratitude for sponsoring such an organization and '
for setting aside the generous allowance of grOund
which gives the opportunity to grow large speci-
mens and to make provision for future years of
study and enjoyment.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 673)
form. To overcome this difficulty an unusual de-

vice was used to make sure that the voices of the
actors could be heard. Of the characters only six
had speaking parts but the outdoor theater and
the movement necessary for these characters made
amplification a problem. This was solved by
choosing six duplicate characters to speak for the
actors. These six were seated behind the stage at
its center, shut off from view of the audience by
grill-like Venetian blinds through which their
voices came clearly amplified by a loud-speaker
system. The grills made it possible for the dupli-

cate characters to watch the characters on and in
front of the stage.

TRAVEL AS RECREATION 687

In some instances where the pageant theme
emphasizes pantomime, music and the dance
printed programs are distributed to the audience
in order that they can follow the story. Brightly
colored programs are inexpensive to print, espe-
cially if a cheap quality of paper is used.

Pageantry offers unlimited possibilities for bril-
liant and gorgeous color effects in costuming.
Costumes for each episode of a pageant should be
worked out with great care. Careful consideration
must be given to the effects desired, whether the
pageant is to be given at night under artificial
lights or during the daytime, costs of material,
and other related questions. Expensive materials
for costumes are certainly not necessary. Canton
fiannel, unbleached muslin, cheese cloth, certain
types of paper, are all satisfactory for costumes.
Through the use of dyes and paints attractive
costumes can be evolved. Rich embroidery can be
represented by stenciling designs on materials
such as burlap and muslin. Wigs and braids can
easily be made from rope and old stockings. At-
tics may be explored for cast-aside dresses and
other pieces of wearing apparel. Properties such as
crowns, shields, swords, and other pieces of
armor can be made from gilded corrugated card-

board.
A few references which may interest play-

ground pageant directors are listed below.

Art of Producing Pageants, The, by Esther Willard
Bates. An excellent handbook for the community di-
rector. A thorough discussion by a competent pageant
writer. Walter H. Baker Co., 178 Tremont St. Boston,
Mass. $1.75

Costume Boole, The, by Joseph Leeming. A comprehen-
sive and elementary book on costumes and directions
for their making. Frederick A. Stokes Co., 443—4th
Ave., New York City. $2.50

Historic Costume for the Stage, by Lucy Barton. The
heritage of European and European—American dress,
traced from Egypt through the lands mentioned in the
Bible to Greece, Rome, Byzantium then to Europe
proper and finally to its offshoots in the New World.
$\lglalter H. Baker Co., 178 Tremont St., Boston. Mass.

.00

How to Produce Plays and Pageants, by Mary M. Rus-
sell. A guide to their preparation and production for
church and community. Doubleday Doran and Co., 14
West 49th St., New York City. $1.50

Inexpensive Costumes. Reference is made to the costume
workshop, suggesting suitable material for costumes as
well as types to be worn by various symbols and other
characters. National Recreation Association, 315—4th
Ave., New York City. 25¢

List of Music for Plays and Pageants, A, by Roland
Holt. Suggestions for organizing the musical program
to accompany plays and pageants. Lists of music sult-
able for any type of dramatic situation. D. Appleton-
Century Co., 35 West 32nd St., New York City. $1.00

List of Plays for Children From 5 to 15, A. Includes
special section devoted to formal plays, pageants and
festivals. National Recreation Association, 315—4th
Ave., New York City. Free

Lists of Pageants, Masques and Festivals. Also offersan
outline to be followed in the writing and presentation
of these productions. National Recreation Assocmtion,

315—4th Ave., New York City. 25¢

Travel as Recreation

NSPIRED BY READING the column, “What They
Say About Recreation,” J. R. Anderson, Su-
pervisor, New York office, United States Travel
Bureau, National Park Service, has sent us the
following:

“Recreation, broadly speaking, is simply change,
any change, from the eternal daily job of grind-
ing out a livelihood. Few of us are so fortunate
as to have work which uses up all our natural
enthusiasms. Here at the Travel Bureau we are
visited daily by both experienced and would-be
tourists from all over the world. Included in the
range of variety seekers is the clerk or stenogra-
pher who saves religiously for fifty weeks out of
the year and comes to us for advice on how to ex-
tract the last drop of recreational pleasure from
their precious two weeks’ vacation. Perhaps they
can afford an occasional week end of nearby
winter sports, but have no idea how to get the
most from a limited budget. Then there is the
typical American family who has been saving up
for years to take a little trip, or the devoted old
couple who have looked forward all their lives to
‘seeing America first,’ or the European family
who has at long last realized their dream of com-
ing to the States, the college students planning
hiking tours, and countless others, all recreation-
bent.

“Shakespeare has perhaps given us the best
definition of recreation. We are all familiar with
Marc Antony’s reading of Caesar’s will, in which
he left his vast parks and estates to the people
‘to walk abroad and recreate themselves.’ This
is the literal meaning, yet how few of us stop to
think of leisure-time activity as the much-to-be-
desired recreation of our entire mental and phy-
sical equipment.”

Recreation Magazine, 315 —4th Ave., New York City.
25¢ a copy

May, 1938—"W hen the Finale Is a Pageant.” This
is an article summarizing a number of playground
pageants presented by recreation departments
throughout the country.

August, 1936—“Producing a Playground Pageant.”
Offers practical suggestions on how to plan, write,
organize and produce a playground pageant. Pag-
eant outline included for the stOry of Rip Van

Winkle.
June, 1935—“Start Your Planning Now for the

Summer Closing Festival.”
July, 1933—"Plays and Pageants for the Playground,”
by Helen Board.

Technique of Pageantry, The, by Linwood Taft. A re-
liable guide giving detailed directions for every phase
of a pageant. A. S. Barnes and Co., 67 West 44th St.,
New York City. $2.00

“New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Cokesbury Game Book

By Arthur M. Depew. Cokesbury Press, Nashville, Tenv
nessee. $1.75.

ANY RECREATon WORKERS have used with great profit
M the Cokcsbury Party Book published in 1932 and
the Cokesbury Stunt Book which appeared in 1934. Faced
with the problem of selecting from a great mass of ma-
terial six hundred games and activities which would be
most helpful, the author’s first consideration in his game
book was the provision of a ready reference book for rec—
reational leaders and workers with church, school, and
playground groups. He has also kept in mind the needs
of the individual using the book. The book accordingly
offers 50 active games, 50 quiet games, 50 writing games,
50 outdoor games, 75 games to make and play, 100 men-
tal games, 25 cultural games, 50 musical games, and 150

games for special occasions.

Table Tennis

By Coleman Clark. Prentice—Hall, Inc., New York.
$1.60.

Ix SPITE OF THE popularity of the game, comparatively
little has been written on the subject of table tennis.
The purpose of this book is to tell how table tennis is
played, how to get the most fun; out of it, and to answer
questions which have arisen about the game. It should
be as beneficial to beginners as to more advanced players
and a helpful guide and reference book for recreation
workers and teachers of physical education. A history of
the game is presented, and there is a discussion of equip-
ment as well as techniques. The final chapter is devoted
to the organization of tournaments, leagues, and clubs.

Community Buildings for Farm Families

By Blanche Halbert. Farmers’ Bulletin No. 1804. Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.10.

HERE IS A PRACTICAL pamphlet with many suggestions
for the construction of rural community buildings
of both many-use and special-use types with plans and
photographs. There are suggestions for remodeling old
buildings and for using school buildings. There are notes
telling what many communities are doing to provide cen-
ters. Not the least valuable sections of the pamphlets are
those which point out when a community should not erect
a building and enumerating the mistakes to be avoided,
for “white elephants” in the form of unused community

buildings unfortunately exist both in rural and urban
communities.

Children's Play, Indoors and Out
By Elizabeth F. Boettiger. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Inc., New York. $2.00.
HERE Is A BOOK which contains suggestions for setting

the stage for satisfying play—“play that provides
ample and varied physical activity; gives the Opportunity
for exploration and achievement; fulfills intellectual and

688

emotional needs; and allows wholesome social contacts.”
With this objective in mind, the author gives us infor-
mation and suggestions on first toys, materials for block
building, picture making, clay modeling, woodworking,
music making, storytelling, use of outdoor play space,
gardening, pets, and many other subjects. The volume is
a very practical guide for parents and teachers and for
leaders having the responsibility of caring for children,
particularly those from two to six years of age.

Square Dances of the Great Smoky
Mountains

 457. Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.
..2 .

ONE OF THE RICHEST sources of our colonial heritage
lies in the Southern Highlands, Mr. Frank H.
Smith points out in a foreword to this booklet which
contains fourteen dances for large circles, twelve for
small ones, together with four mountain folk songs and a
number of dance tunes collected in the Great Smoky
Mountain region and carefully edited.

Children Come and Sing—

Seasons and Such

Words and music by Clara Lyden. Illustrations by Mary
Hellmuth. E. M. Hale and Company, Milwaukee, Wis.
Paper bound, $.15; cardboard, $.25.

HERE IS A REMARKABLY good collection of songs for
little children of nursery, school or kindergarten
age. It is rarely one finds composed songs for children
of this age which are so genuine, spontaneous, and yet so
well suited to the interests and capacities of the children.
They are well suited, too, to the pianist of limited skill.
Delightful illustrations accompany the songs.

Dolls to Make: For Fun and Profit

By Edith Flack Ackley. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
New York. $2.00.

N THIS BOOK Mrs. Ackley, author of “Marionettes:

Easy to Make! Fun to Use 1” tells simply and exactly
how to make dolls and gives patterns both for dolls and
their clothes. Careful drawings show every step of the
making, as well as the finished dolls.

Coordinating Councils in California

By Kenneth S. Beam, Executive Secretary, Coordinating
Councils, Inc. State of California, Department of Edu-
cation Bulletin, September 1, 1938. $.25.

MORE AND BETTER recreation is one of the major inter-

ests of Coordinating Councils. Twenty years ago
two men lunched together in Berkeley, California—one a
school man and the other the city chief of police— to
discuss certain “cases” in rwhich both were interested.
They soon found, however, that if they were to do the

VS

NEW’ PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 689

best work with these problem cases they would have to
consult a wider group of interested people. This led to
the inclusion in a larger luncheon group of guidance and
psychiatrist specialists and representatives of health and
public welfare. This group was the beginning of the
Berkeley Coordinated Council. Ten years later this
Berkeley group was “discovered” by a State Commis-
sion for the Study of Problem Children. The report of
this Commission led to the rapid growth of the Coor-
dinating Council in California, so that in a period of ten
years there were developed 126 coordinating councils,
varying greatly in nature and effectiveness. More than
one-half of these were in cities of less than 15,000
population.

This booklet of more than fifty pages describes the rise
of the movement, its rapidly changing objectives, varied
types of organization, and some of the results achieved.
The new idea which is emerging on the horizon is that
if whole communities are to 'be made better places in
which to live all constructive agencies in the community
must be enlisted in cooperative effort. This goes beyond
the public departments originally included, beyond the
council of social agencies in the commonly accepted
sense, and includes the schools, the churches and civic

clubs. The booklet is well written and will be of in-
terest to recreation workers and other community
leaders.

Tennis—Fundamentals and Timing.

By Ethel Sutton Bruce and Bert 0. Bruce. Prentice-
Hall, Inc. New York. $2.50.

This book is novel in presenting a simple “accounting
method” for the rapid mastery of the basic tennis shots.
Each stroke is analyzed from start to.finish in such a way
as to fix the correct method in the player’s mind before
his racket even touches the ball. This method puts
rhythm into timing, footwork and balance. It offers‘a
natural, easy way for learning how to play tennis.
Eighty-six action photographs and many drawings illus-
trate the system.

The Education of Youth for Leadership.

By Arthur J. Jones. Published by McGraw-Hill
Books Co., Inc., New York. $2.00.

The author of this volume bases his thesis on the as—
sumption that the schools have the chief responsibility
for the selection of leadership. The effort of the schools,
then, he says, is largely mechanical and unintelligent.
The purpose of the book is to help the schools in the
selection and training of leaders and in stimulating re-
search along these lines. The author analyzes the prob-
lems of youth for leadership, submits data regarding the
characteristics of leaders and discusses the best methods of
discerning these traits early in life. The chapters on The
Meaning and Function of Leadership, The Characteristics
of Leaders, and the Fundamentals in a Leadership Pro-
gram are suggestive to recreation leaders who are re-
sponsible for the selection and training of workers.

The Cokesbury Stunt Book.

By Arthur M. Depew. nCokesbury Press, Nashville,
Tennessee. $1.75.

While this is not a new book, it may be timely to re-
mind readers of RECREATION of the availability of this
book containing more than six hundred stunts for the
stage, banquet, luncheons, party, boys’ camp and similar
occasions. Most of the stunts and skits described are
purely simple and nonsensical and are intended to be.
They can be adapted to the good-time hours of any
occasion.

A Professional Outlook on Group Education.

By Hedley S. Dimock, Charles E. Hendry and Karl
P. Zerfoss. Association Press, New York. 35¢.

“The discovery of group experience as a highly sig-
nificant educational resource is not new despite the recent
wave of interest in group 'work or group education.

Some of the major leisure time agencies from the be-
ginning have depended largely on the small volunteer
group as a central means of achieving their purpose."

With this frank acknowledgment of the long standing
use of the group method, the authors describe briefly the
origins of the present emphasis on group work, the social
function of group education, established criteria of group
education, discuss the distinctive role of the private lei-
sure time agencies, and in the second half of the book
discuss the case for professional training of informal
educators.

American Planning and Civic Annual.

Edited by Harlean James. American Planning and
Civic Association, 901 Union Trust Building, Wash-
ington, D. C. $3.00.

Here is a record of recent civic advance as shown in
the proceedings of the Conference on National Parks held
at Washington, D. C., the National Conference on State
Parks at Norris, Tennessee, and the National Conference
on Planning at Minneapolis, Minnesota. The papers pre-
sented at these conferences represent an exceedingly val-
ua'ble body of material on our national and state parks.
A section has been included on planning. Each Annual as
it makes its yearly appearance contains an increasing
amount of material on the recreational uses of national
and state parks. ,

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREcc BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRs. ROBERT WOODS BLIss, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRs. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill. N. H.
GUSTAvus T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS.,CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington. D. C.

