--.~-:-—— ‘7. .-

lncluded in the Field of the
National Recreation Movement

Every child in an orphan asylum needing recreation

Every person in a home for the aged sitting in idleness

'Every person with tendency to mental trouble who could be saved by

normal recreation

Every person in hospitals for the insane for whom life could be made more
bearable by recreation

Every child risking life and limb playing in the street because no play-
ground has been provided near by

Every child growing up without appreciation or power of expression in the
field of music, drama, arts, crafts, nature

Every child without an opportunity to sing or play a musical instrument

Every child longing to make model airplanes, kites, water wheels

Every child without opportunitynto know and enjoy the birds, the trees,
the flowers '

Every child who longs to act the part of king or queen or prince a
Every boy and every girl in school needing to be trained to live

Every boy and every girl in the schools in the states which have not yet
established physical education in the schools

Every boy and girl who ought to go to a day camp or a regular camp during
the summer months

Every boy who is acquiring bad habits, loafing, while there is no playground
in his neighborhood

Every man and woman who needs opportunity to go to a community center
in the schools or in the community buildings for his evening hours

Every father and mother who wants help with the play problems of children
in the family and in the home

Every church worker who wants help in building the normal recreation life
within his church

Every American Legionnaire, every Rotarian, Kiwanian and other service
group member who wants help to make him more effective in work-
ing for the recreation interests in his community

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

JANUARY |939

 

545

l .

l
Courtesy National Park'Sdr 
"Nobody knows when skal‘ing s'lar'ledl bul H was lil'era'lurel 'The Edda.l wherein Saemund 'll'le
a long ’rime ago. Some da’re if from a period Wise. who lived in ’rhe years around IIOO.
only lwo hundred years af’rer Chris’r. when lhe menl‘ioned skal‘ing. Wri‘H'en abou’r lhe same

Swedes and ’rhe Norsemen are said +0 have used ’rime. an old chronicle of Fi‘lz-Hugh also speaks
wooden snowshoes ’ro ’rravel over ’rhe frozen snow. of ska’rlng as a means of ’rranspor’r." —Diane

O’rhers refer ’ro an early collec’rion of Icelandic Cummings in "Figure Ska’ring as a Hobby."

546

 

 

n

Courtesy Minnesota Journal of Education

Recreation and Crime

By HENRY S. WALDMAN

N SPEAKING OF CRIME, I am reminded of Mark
Twain’s comment about the weather when he
said: “Everybody talks about it, but nothing

is done about it.” Yes, we do get exited about
crime and criminals when we read of a Dillinger,
Gerald Chapman and other sensational characters.
\Ve demand that the law be vindicated when these
men have been shot or executed. Then we forget
all about crime until screaming headlines once
again arouse our emotions.

This circular type of thinking about crime will
never solve the problem. We are out to catch the
criminal, but in our desire to punish him we over—
3 look thousands of potential criminals who at that

Litchfield. Minnesota.
believes that providing
recreation facilities
helps to prevent crime.
Here are a few of the
outdoor recreation ac-
tivities the community
furnishes: a sled race:
a swimming contest; a
bicycle club; a winter
carnival' and an "On

Wheels" contest.

very moment are be—
ing raised in the breed-
ing grounds of crime.
It reminds us of the
policy of controlling
fires by merely putting
out the flames and sit-
ting back to await
more fires, or the old
way of trying to stop
the spread of typhoid
by segregating the ty-
phoid carrier, while we
failed to clean up the
conditions which
caused the disease to flourish.

We have learned much about crime in recent
years. N 0 longer do we in New Jersey sentence
an offender upon the basis of his offence or a
judge’s “hunch.” In juvenile courts and county
criminal courts we have studies made of each in-
dividual delinquent by a trained probation officer.
We call in doctors, psychiatrists and psychologists
in order that we may have scientific knowledge
concerning the mental and physical condition of
the defendant. We like to call this the “individ-
ualization of justice” as distinguished from the
former mass treatment of offenders. From tens of
thousands of these case histories we have learned
a great deal about the underlying causes of crime.
We are anxious to know not only what crime the
offender committed, but who the offender is and
what factors in his life caused him to embark
upon a criminal career. This enables the courts
to judge the nature and character of the delin-
quent and determine what should be done to re-
form and rehabilitate him.

547

548 RECREATION AND CRIME

There is no single cause of crime! There are
generally numerous causal factors. Outstanding
causes are incompetent parental control, broken
homes, poor housing, slum areas, lack of recreav
tional facilities, mental deficiency and school mal-
adjustment.

It is obvious that our age-old policy of pursuing
and punishing the criminal has not gotten us very
far. W’e continue to build bigger jails. We con—
tinue to recruit a new criminal army. How much
longer are we to ignore the fact that crime cannot
be controlled if nothing is done to prevent it?
Prevention. is the key to the crime problem. We
know the conditions which make for crime. Then
let us be up and doing! By a systematic com-
munity organization and an aroused public opin-
ion we can abolish the evils which make crime
possible.

Crime prevention groups are today at work in
many communities in New Jersey. These people
realize that society must make a broad frontal at—
tack on the ne'sts of crime and the forces of crime.
\Ve spend taxpayers’ funds to prevent typhoid,
diptheria, tuberculosis and other dreaded diseases.
Prevention in this iield has saved many from
costly institutionalization. Every dollar spent for
crime prevention will cut down the criminal class
and reduce the size of our jails. This may sound
like the statement of a rabid idealist, but we have
facts to show that every word is absolutely true.

Tonight we are to discuss what part public rec-
reation can play in a community crime prevention
program. At the very outset, may I say that I am
not prepared to go on record as saying that rec-
reation will eliminate crime. But we do know,
from surveys made by experts and statements
made by penologists and social workers, that rec-
reation can play a tremendous part in reducing
and preventing crime. We know, furthermore,
that a vast number of juvenile delinquents have
absolutely no contact with character-building or—
ganizations or recreation groups. We know, too,
that fewer than 10% of our juvenile delinquents
were active members of such groups when they
committed their offences. Obviously, there is a
crying, imminent need of ex—
panding our recreational fa-
cilities so that the needs of our
underprivileged youth may be
served. Modern city life has
brought in its wake slum areas,
crowded tenements, lack of

play areas and a tremendous

This address was given at the meeting
of the New Jersey State League of
Municipalities held at Atlantic City on
November l7th. It is of special inter-
est in view of the fact that Mr. Wald- age-
man is Presiding Judge, Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court' Elizabeth.

increase of juvenile delinquency. More than
275,000 children pass through juvenile courts in
the United States each year. Of this number tens
of thousands would never have become delinquent
if society had taken an honest interest in them.
We have treated most of our underprivileged
children with calloused indifference. We create
leisure time for children and adults, and do not
care how the time is spent. Small wonder, in-
deed, that children swarm the streets in poor areas,
form gangs and cellar clubs, become prematurely
hardened and worldly Wise, and too often learn to
follow sinister and evil examples. '
Children have urges which we must guide. They
love group activity, sportsmanship, competition,
adventure and friendship. Shall we allow them to
get it in the gutter or in the neighborhood center?
I say to you that. society has a bounden duty to

overcome the forces of evil by the advantages of
goodness.

Recreation a Public Function

Public recreation is an integral part of munici-
pal government. Once regarded as a “fad,” it has
achieved the status of a necessity. It is as vital to
city life as the school. It supplements and com-
plements the school by guiding our young during
their leisure time. We cannot delegate the task of
recreation to private agencies alone. If we did, it
would reach a limited number only, and chiefly
those who already have many of life’s privileges.
Public recreation by its very term connotes recre—
ation for the general population. Collectively, the
citizens can afford through taxes to pay for prop-
erty and leadership which are beyond the resources
of individual families and private groups. Fur-
thermore, since public recreation serves children
without reference to creed, nationality or iinancial
circumstances, it is but right that it should be
municipally supported and operated. Recreation
includes health building, safety, character growth,
delinquency prevention, mental growth and train—
ing in good citizenship. These fundamentals have
been community’s pride and obligation since the
days of the Athenians.

Our system of compulsory
education compels our chil-
dren to attend school daily
until they are sixteen years of
A corresponding duty
compels municipalities to pro-
vide a common school educa-

tion for every child. But after
school, what?

When the school day is over
and the child’s leisure time be-
gins, do we take an interest in
him? Do we care what he
learns, where he spends his time,
with whom he associates, what

RECREATION AND CRIME

"Public recreation is not traveling.
it has arrived! It is for the city
of today as well as for the city of
tomorrow. No longer an experi-
mentl it is a vital branch of mu-
nicipal government. Municipalities
cannot afford to ignore it any more
than they can deny a common
school education to their young.ll

549

flre houses because they are not
revenue producing? We must
give at least as much attention
to the safety and welfare of our
children as we give to culverts,
street cleaning and an annual
display of fireworks. The growth
of slums, the economic stress of

habits he is forming? Very lit-

tle, if at all! We cast him aside as driftwood and
leave him to the ebb and flow of the tides of
chance. Left unguided and unguarded, to his own
devices, the child becomes an easy prey to every
evil and undesirable inHuence in his neighborhood
and environment. If it is not the community’s busi-
ness how a child spends his leisure time, then
whose business is it? \Ne applaud the police of-
ficer who discovers a child committing a wrong,
but what does the community do to offer a more
wholesome avenue of diversion for the child?
The community must keep a boy or girl away
from police and juvenile courts not by harboring
him after the crime, but by preventing him from
committing the crime. We should so properly

guide a child through recreation during his leisure '

time that he will not have the heart nor the mind
to do a wrongful act. To that end, in a community
crime prevention program, public recreation is the
most powerful influence for good that has yet
been offered. Guide the boy and you form the
man!

The Cost of Public Recreation

We must all be keenly aware of the rising cost
of municipal government and the increasing bur-
den on the taxpayers. Many will say that local
communities cannot include in their budgets an
appropriation for recreation. They believe it to be
“enormously expensive.” Yet that is not so. Rec-
reation is not a “self-liquidating” project, but it
pays dividends to the community in the form of
healthy children and good citizens that cannot be
calculated in dollars or shown on a financial state-
ment. You cannot measure the value and worth
of a municipal service or a municipal function by
the flnancial return to the community. Otherwise,
we would eliminate our schools, police and fire
departments, courts and many other governmental
agencies.

The only local service that brings a small capi-
tal return to our municipalities is a license bureau.
Would any taxpayer argue that we should close
our schools, disband our police or close up our

the times, the complexities of
modern city life, the great amount of leisure time,
the rise of unsupervised amusements and the
enormous increase in juvenile delinquency and
crime have all tended to make public recreation a
governmental necessity. It is an antidote to many
insidious influences upon a child’s life.

The last Year Book of the National Recreation
Association reported that fifty cities in New Jer-
sey and three counties expended for public recre-
ation through local budgets and local funds the
sum of $i,122,190.79. It is quite impossible to
number accurately the millions of play hours rep-
resented by this expenditure, or the tens of
thousands of children who beneflted thereby,'but
it is possible to say safely that in proportion of
the use to the expense, public recreation is the
least costly of all municipal functions not to men-
tion the fact that it probably does the most good.

Perhaps We can get a clearer picture of public
recreation when we realize that in 1937 incom-
plete figures report 539,292,664 visits during that
year to recreation areas in cities reporting for the
Year Book of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Various estimates indicate that in all proba-
bility 60% to 70% of these visits were made by
children or young people. The amount expended
for public recreation, as last reported, was
$47,933,781.2I, which included over $22,000,000
of Federal recreation funds. More than 1,280
cities in the United States have recreation facili-
ties supported by public funds and we must be
glad to note that nearly I /20th of this number
come from our own State of New Jersey.

No one should complain about the small cost of
public recreation when he is aware of the tre-
mendous cost of other governmental services. I
have yet to hear a single voice raised in protest
when we build new jails or mental hospitals. Why
should anyone complain when we spend a modest
sum of money to try to keep our young men and

' women out of jail? Let me quote a few figures to

show how much we spend on our penal institu-
tions in New jersey. But lest you think I am criti-
cizing the socially-minded men and women who

550 RECREATION AND CRIME

run our humanitarian institutions, may I say that
these figures in no way indicate that they are ex-
travagant; I simply want to make comparisons
between the cost of recreation and the cost of

jailing people.

New Jersey Institutions C 0st 1937 Per C apita
State Prison, Trenton . . . . . . .$562,6l4.00 $498.77

Boys’ Home, Jamesburg .. . .. . . . . . . . . 674.79

Reformatory, Rahway . . . . . .. 477,500.00 552.02

Prison, Bordentown . . . . . . .. 244,937.00 501.92

Prison, Leesberg . . . . . . . . . .. 101,815.00 441.61
Reformatory, Annandale . . . . 269,711.00 566.62
Reformatory, Clinton . . . . ...o 164,303.00 457.67

And this does not include city or county jails,
or the cost of policing the state. Millions, millions
and more millions for
bigger and better jails in
New Jersey! Yet we
spent a little over a mil-
lion dollars for public
recreation in New Jersey
at a cost of less than
thirty-five cents per an-
num for everyone who
uses our recreational fa-
cilities. Need I say any—
more about the economy
of public recreation?

In every one of our
municipalities there are
abundant sites available
for public recreation. Our
public school buildings,
in which hundreds of
millions of public funds
are invested, can be uti-
lized for recreation pro-
grams after school hours.
Auditoriums, g ymna s i-
ums and classrooms can
be put to beneficial use at
little expense. School
grounds should be opened
after hours so that children can enjoy free play.
Playgrounds can be purchased or rented at a
nominal cost. Community centers can be located
in rented buildings or properties owned by muni-
cipalities. None of these undertakings need be
“showy” or expensive. The important considera-
tion is that playgrounds and centers should be in
areas where they are most needed. Recreation

“.

must be brOUght near the child who can make the -

most use of it. Our juvenile court records indi-
cate that we seldom have the case of a boy or

girl who uses private or public recreational fa-
cilities regularly.

 

 'I \
Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

Delinquency and Lack of Recreation

Lack of recreational facilities is undoubtedly an
outstanding cause of juvenile delinquency. Look-
ing over the 1937 report of the Union County
Probation Off-ice, it is significant to find that out
of I98 boys and girlsplaced on probation that

year, I4I children were victims of bad neighbor-

hood conditions. Only fourteen boys and girls
had the benefit of character-building agencies.
Many of the children were members of gangs.
They banded together because they yearned for
group activity. They got into trouble because

"' rt.» . - ‘
«(.5-  i.
A» " V ‘

We need more activities of this type
with their strong appeal to children

there was no one to guide them the right way.
Legally, we were obliged to call them juvenile de—
linquents, but morally the responsibility for their
waywardness rests squarely upon the community.

The New Jersey Juvenile Delinquency Commis-
sion in 1937 made a survey of inmates of our re-
form institutions and prisons to ascertain what
started them on a career of crime. The majority of
offenders admitted that as children they played in

RECREATION AND CRIME 551

the streets most of the time. Of 663 State Prison
and Rahway inmates who testified on this point,
531 said they played in the streets; I 32 said they
did not; of 779 Annandale and Jamesburg in-
mates, 374 said they played in the streets and 405
said they did not. Those who said they had play-
grounds near home said also 'that they tended to
use the playgrounds rather than the street. That
certainly is cogent evidence that bringing play-
grounds close to children takes them off the city
streets.

The study also showed that a relationship ex-
isted between the places in which the offenders
played and the kind of companions they sought or
found. Those who played in the streets went with
bad or mixed gangs in greater number than those
who used the playgrounds. From this we may
conclude that where therelare supervised play-
grounds there is less likelihood of young people
forming undesirable companionships.

Many of those interviewed confessed that their
' out-of—school time was spent in loitering, gam—
bling and stealing. A goodly number admitted that
they associated with former inmates of institu-
tions when they were first arrested.

I think we can all agree that these excerpts
from the Commission’s report make interesting
reading. It is safe to say that if these offenders
had enjoyed the fruits of supervised public recre-
ation, many of them would never have gotten into
conflict with the law.

How Public Recreation Helps

Two communities in Union County have shown
what can be done toward crime prevention
through recreation. One is a residential com-
munity, the other, an industrial town. Each made
a careful study of sections Within their recrea-
tional facilities in the spotted areas.

An example of what can be done in a suburban
community is found in Union Township, Union
County, New Jersey. A few years ago we had a
number of boys from that Township before our
Juvenile Court. Our investigation showed appal—
ling conditions existing in certain sections of the
Township. One day I told several of the officials
that they were unwittingly creating a rural slum
and denying a large group of children a whole-
some environment. At first they resented my re—
marks. Then, under the leadership of Commis-
sioner Biertumpfel and Rev. Joseph A. Keiper, a
recreation group was formed in the blighted areas.
They called in a representative of the National

Recreation Association. A community recreation
center was established. They set up a WPA Rec-

reational Project and in the basement of the cen-

ter fixed up a machine shop where boys can tear
apart auto motors and' reassemble them. Leagues
and teams were formed. A Youth Welfare Coun-
cil was organized to do pre-delinquency work and
bring boys and girls to the recreation centers.

And what was the result? Whereas we used to
have not 1e5s than twenty-five cases a year from
this area, we have had fewer than eight cases so
far this year. This showing is due to the civic—
mindedness of the local government in aiding un-
derprivileged youth. They brought the children
into the center, established thirteen playgrounds
and baseball fields in all sections, provided
113,000 play hours of recreation and they did all
this at a cost of only $5,000.00 to the Township
budget. This splendid example can be followed
by every urban community in New Jersey.

Elizabeth is a prime example of what can be
done when public recreation is developed at its
best in a larger city. A few years ago our system
there was lagging. We opened a few playgrounds
and used a few schoolrooms and that was all. Our
good Mayor, Joseph P. Brophy, was enthusiastic
about recreation. The National Recreation As-
sociation made an intensive survey of Elizabeth’s
needs and then we appointed Arthur N oren as our
Recreation Director. Things began to hum. The
budget was increased, a program was tformulated,
more playgrounds were opened under better su-
pervision, more than four good-sized centers were
opened, a swimming pool was built. All these rec-
reational facilities were wisely placed in selected
areas where delinquency predominated. What
was the result? Thousands of children left the
slums and the city streets and made their head-
quarters at the centers and playgrounds. In 1931,
464 children from Elizabeth were summoned to
Juvenile Court. In 1937 only 179 local children
were complained of in court, giving Elizabeth the
lowest delinquency record in the United States
for a city of its size.

In 1937, the Elizabeth Council of Social Agen-
cies made a detailed study of juvenile delinquency
in that city, from the years 1931 to 1937‘ inclu-
sively. The report credited the Elizabeth Recrea-
tion Commission for its part in reducing delin-
quency. It said: “The establishment of new su-
pervised play areas, the progressiveness of its

(Continued on page 584)

Digging Out for Recreation!

A "Treasure Hunt" in the basement ot your
school building may well result in the dis-
covery of additional space for recreation

HE PROGRAM of the com-

munity centers of the Board

of Education of Cleveland,
Ohio, has been expanded
through the discovery of unex-
cavated space in the basement of a number of
school buildings. Through labor supplied by
WPA, this space has been cleared and made suit-
able for such activities as horseshoes, archery,
golf, rifle practice, table tennis, wrestling and
boxing.

In one center a dark dismal room filled with
dirt has been transformed into a well lighted area
equipped with eight horseshoe courts, live rifle
ranges, five archery ranges, and space for instruc—
tion in golf. Additional space is now being made
available for shufl’leboard, table tennis, wrestling,
boxing, and a game room. By utilizing this newly
discovered space in the basement for activities
which formerly required
the gymnasium, we have

By G. I. KERN
Supervisor of Community Centers
Board of Education
Cleveland. Ohio

One of the sports for which space has been
found in the community centers of Cleveland

been better able to meet the de-
mand for such activities as bait
casting, tennis, badminton, danc-
ing, gymnasium classes, social
dances, and social mixers.

An increased interest is apparent in many of the
hobby groups which include knitting, painting,
sketching, metal craft, art jewelry, paper craft,
clay modeling, photography, radio, sewing, and
cooking. Most of these activities require no spe-
cial instruction and are offered free of charge.
Some organization, however, is necessary to stim-
ulate interest in participation. This is accomplished
by securing for each group a volunteer leader
with some experience and with a keen interest in
the particular activity. The leader of each activity
group becomes a member of the Community Center

Council, and as a member he assists the director of

the center in formulating policies and planning ac-
tivities for the community
center in general.

 

552

The Recreation Calendar

JANUARY

Special Days—United States

1 New Year’s Day
1 Negro Emancipation, 1863
7 Gregory XIII (Ugo Buoncompagni) 1502.
(Our present calendar is known as the Gre-
gorian Calendar)
8 Battle of New Orleans (at New Orleans only)
14 Maury Day (Virginia)
17 Benjamin Franklin’s Birthday
19 Edgar Allen Poe, 1809, Poet, Writer
19 R. E. Lee’s Birthday (observed in Alabama.
Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and
Virginia)
25 Robert Burns, 1759, Poet
28 Child Labor Day
31 Franz Schubert, 1797, Composer

Special Weelts—U nited States

17—23 National Thrift Week
20-25 National Drama Week

Special Days—Foreign-Born Groups

7 Christmas (Balkan States, Ukraine and Greece)
20 Chinese New Year or Spring Holiday (Jan. 20-
Feb. 19)

Special Events

Snow and ice events (skating, hockey, polo, etc.)
Various types of indoor ball games

Quiet games

Story telling

Pageants (Inauguration Day)

Minstrel Shows (Negro Emancipation)

Poetic readings (Poe and Burns)

Dramatic presentation (National Drama Week)
Musical numbers (Franz Schubert)

FEBRUARY

Special Days—United States

2 Ground Hog Day

8 Boy Scouts of America, founded in 1910

12 Abraham Lincoln's Birthday, 1809

12 Georgia Day (in that state only. Date of
Oglethorpe’s landing in 1733)

14 St. Valentine’s Day

14 Admission Day (in Arizona)

22 George VVashington’s Birthday, 1732

Special Weeks—United States
18—23 Better American Speech Week

Special Events

Same events as for January, plus:

Demonstration by Boy Scouts (Boy Scouts of
America)

Recitation—Gettysburg address, etc. -— (Abraham
Lincoln)

Valentine party (St. Valentine’s Day)

Pageant (Georgia Day; Admission Day)

Story acting, biographical sketch (Lincoln and
Washington)

ApprOpriate party (Leap Year)

MARCH

Special Days—-llnited States

1 Mardi Gras (observed in Alabama, Florida and
Louisiana)
2 Texas Independence Day (in Texas)
2 Sam Houston _Memorial Day (in Texas)
4 Pennsylvania Day (in that state, whose charter
was granted March 4, 1681)
6 Michelangelo, 1475, Art
7 Luther Burbank, 1849, Nature
8 Birthday of Joseph Lee
17 St. Patrick’s Day
21 First day of Spring
25 Maryland Day (in that state only)
30 Seward Day (in Alaska)
Easter (earliest possible date March 24; latest
possible date April 25)

Special Weeks—United States

17—21 Clean-up and Paint-up Week
Girl Scouts International Month

Special Events

Same events as for January, plus:

Pageants, floats, contests, etc. (Mardi Gras)

Trip to museum (Michelangelo)

Nature talk, garden club, etc. (Luther Burbank)

Parade and community singing (St. Patrick’s Day)

Hike through woods (First Day of Spring)

Choral festival (Easter)

Handcraft activities (Girl Scouts Month and Clean-
up and Paint-up Week)

APRlL

Special Days—United States

1 All Fool’s Day

3 John Burrough’s, 1837, Nature

6 R. E. Peary discovered the North Pole, 1909

11 Arbor Day and Bird Day

12 Anniversary of founding of National Recrea-
tion Association in 1906

12 Date of passage of Halifax Independence Reso-
lutions (in North Carolina)

13 Thomas Jefferson’s Birthday, 1743 (in Ala.)

18 Paul Revere’s Ride, 1775

19 Patriots’ Day, (Battle of Lexington and Con-
cord, 1775) (in Maine and Massachusetts)

21 Battle of San Jacinto (in Texas)

27 Grant’s Birthday ‘

30 Washington Inaugurated First President of
United States, 1789

Special Weeks—United States

7-12 Forest Protection Week
20—26 National Garden Week
Be Kind to Animals Week( latter part of April)
Better Homes Week
Health Promotion Week (latter part of April)
International Boys Week (April and May)
Own Home Week (first week in April)

Special Events

Party (All Fool’s Day)

Tree planting, gardening, nature activities (John
Burroughs, Arbor Day, Forest Protection and
National Garden W'eeks)

Track activities

Sidewalk games

Roller skating

Ball games

Musical and dramatic presentations (Easter)

553

554 THE RECREATION CALENDAR

MAY
Special Days—United States

1 May Day
1 Child Health Day
4 John J. Audubon, 1780, Birds, Nature
9 R. E. Byrd flew to North Pole, 1926
11 World Good Will Day
18 World Peace Day
20 Anniversary signing of Mecklenburg Declara-
tion of Independence (observed in N. C.)
21 Charles A. Lindbergh flew the Atlantic, 1927
21 American Association of the Red Cross founded
1881
22 National Maritime Day (observance by flag
display, commemorating first successful trans-
atlantic voyage by steam of SS Savannah
. from Savannah, Ga., 1819)
' 25 Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1803, Poetry
30 Memorial Day or Decoration Day (all states
and possessions except Alabama, Arkansas,
Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi,
North Carolina, South Carolina)
Mother’s day (second Sunday)

Special Weeks——United States

Music Week (beginning hrst Sunday, annually)
3 Boys Week—Rotary Clubs
4—10 Mothers and Daughters Week
Poetry Week (fourth week)
Youth Week (first week)

Special Days—Foreign-born Groups

1 Labor Day (in Philippines)
3 Constitution Day (Polish)
17 Constitution Day (Norwegian)

Special Events

Outdoor athletics and ball games of various types

Maypole party, contests, health exhibitions (May
Day, Child Health)

Nature activities (John J. Audubon)

Model Aircraft display, contest, party (Byrd,
Lindbergh Days)

Outdoor exercises, demonstrations, debates, con-
tests, first aid, dramatic portrayals, pageants
(World Good Will Day, World Peace Day.
Am)erican Red Cross founding, Memorial Day,
etc.

Essay and poetry writings (Emerson Day and
Poetry Week)

Folk festival, folk singing and dancing (Polish and
Norwegian Constitution Day)

Craft, art, dramatic, music skills, physical activities
(Youth Week)

JUNE
Special Days—United States

3 Confederate Memorial Day (in Tennessee)

3 Jefferson Davis’ Birthday (in Alabama, Ar-
kansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Missis-
s1pp1, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia)

5 Rose Festival

14 Flag Day, 1777

15 Pioneer Day (in Idaho)

17 Bunker Hill Day, 1775 (in Massachusetts)

20 West Virginia Day (in West Virginia)

21 First day of Summer, 10ngest day of year

21 Daniel Carter Beard, 1850, Boy Scouts

Father’s Day (second Sunday)

Special Days—Foreign-born Groups

5 Constitution Day (Danish)
10 China, Dragon Boat Festival
11 Kamahameha Day (in Hawaii)
24 Mid-summer Day (Sweden and Finnish)

Special Events

Playground activities

Garden activities

Picnics, hikes, outdoor games, boat trips

Appropriate party (Father’s Day)

Outdoor exercises, special patriotic pageant (Bun-
ker Hill Day, Idaho Pioneer Day, Confederate
Memorial Day, Flag Day, etc.)

Pageant, floats, community concert, singing (Rose
Festival, First Day of Summer)

Folk dancing, folk singing, (Swedish, Finnish and
Danish Days)

Concert. Hawaiian guitars, (Hawaii Day)

Dramatic presentation, dances, parade, floats (China
Dragon Festival)

JULY
Special Days—United States

1—3 Battle of Gettysburg, 1863
4 Independence Day, 1776
6 John Paul Jones, 1747

13 Birthday of Gen. Bedford Forrest (in Tennessee)
14 Rembrandt, 1607, Art

24 Pioneer Day (in Utah)

Special DaysmForeign-born Groups

14 Bastile Day (France)

17 Munoz. Rivera Day (in Puerto Rico)

21 Anniversary of National Independence
(Belgium)

25 Occupation Day (in Puerto Rico)

27 Dr. Barbosa’s Birthday (in Puerto Rico)

Special Events

Outdoor swimming and water sports of various
types

Tennis, badminton, ping pong and other ball games
and contests

Archery, quoits, croquet, etc.

Trips, outings, playground activities

Outdoor pageants, flower shows (Gettysburg, Inde-
pendence Day)

French folk dances (Bastile Day)

Trip to art center (Rembrandt Day)

Patriotic rally, songs, story-acting (John Paul
Jones, Utah Pioneer Day)

AUGUST
Special Days—United States

1 Colorado Day (in that state only)

9 Izaak Walton, 1593

15 Sir Walter Scott, 1771, Author

16 Anniversary Battle of Bennington (in Vermont):
17 David Crockett, 1786, Frontiersman
29 Oliver Wendell Holmes, 1809, Poet

Special DaysmForeign-born Groups
13 Occupation Day (in the Philippines)

Special Events

Fishing, motor boat races, model boat sailing
contests

Swimming, water sports and carnivals

Nature activities, craft activities

Story telling, story and poetic readings (Scott and
Holmes Days)

Story acting, pageant, play (Colorado Day, Battle
of Bennington, David Crockett)

Camping, musical entertainments, picnics, hikes

Outdoor concerts

THE RECREATION CALENDAR 555

NOVEMBER
Special Days—United States

2 Daniel Boone, 1734

SEPTEMBER

Special Days—United States
6 Lafayette Day, Marquis de Lafayette, 1757

(also the anniversary of the First Battle of 11 Armistice Day, 1918
the Marne) . _ . 11 Indian Summer

9 AdmISSIOI‘l, Day (1_n CallfOI‘nla) 13 Robert Louis Stevenson, 1850

12 DCfendel‘S Day (in Marxland) . l9 Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address, 1863

14 Star-Spangled Banner wrltten by FranC1s Scott Election Day (first Tuesday after first \
Key, 1814 Monday)

15 James Fenimore Cooper, 1789, Author
17 Constitution Day, 1787

22 Emancipation Proclamation, 1862

23 First day of Autumn

Labor Day (Erst Monday)
American Indian Day (fourth Friday)

Thanksgiving Day (last Thursday)

Special Weeks—United States

31% EH? ‘3‘“? V5665 k

, , - 1 ren’s 00 ee

Specnal Weeks—United States 11—18 National Father and Son Week
16_22 C t't t' W k 18—23 American Education Week

27.30 1%; W221, ee 19- Open School Week (New York City)

Special Days—Foreign-born Groups

20 Unification Day (Italian) SPeClal Evenls

Gymnasium activities, indoor swimming
Indoor ball games

Special Events
Fencing, boxing, wrestling

Bicycling, roller skating

Hunting, shooting, horseback riding

Archery

Track and field events

Soccer, football and other field ball games

Reading, debating, discussion, (particular emphasis
on Constitution Day, Emancipation Proclamation
Day, Labor Day, etc.)

Harvest festival, exhibit handcraft projects (First
Day Autumn, American Indian Day, etc.)

Folk singing and dancing (Italian)

OCTOBER

Special Days——Unitecl States

1 Missouri Day (in that state’s schools)

7 James Whitcomb Riley, 1853

9 Fraternal Day (Alabama only)

9 Fire Prevention Day (Chicago Fire—1871)
12 Columbus Day (America discovered—1492)
18 Alaska Day (in Alaska only)
20 Will Carleton Day (Michigan)
23 Frances C. Willard Day
27 Roosevelt Day
27 Pennsylvania Day (Pennsylvania)
31 Hallowe’en
31 Admission Day (in Nevada)

Ice skating and other ice rink activities

Sleigh riding, skiing, tobogganing and other win-
ter sports

Hobby clubs, music clubs, dramatic groups

Book clubs, forum groups (Book Week, World
Court Week, etc.)

Essay contest (Armistice Day)

Current events, political discussion clubs (American
Education Week, Election Day)

Craft activities in connection with harvest festival
(Thanksgiving, Indian Summer)

DECEMBER
Special Days—United States

7 Delaware Day (in that state; U. S. Constitu-
tion ratiEed on that date, 1787)

14 Amundsen reached South Pole, 19]]

17 Red Cross

21 First day of Winter, shortest day of year

21 Forefathers’ Day (landing on Plymouth Rock,
1620; celebrated by New England societies
everywhere)

25 Christmas Day

28 Woodrow Wilson’s Birthday (in South
Carolina)

31 New Year’s Eve

Special Weeks—United States

8—11 Good Citizens of America Week
8—13 National Fire Prevention Week
24—31 Good Health Week
Apple Week (latter part of October)

Special Weeks—United States
6 Safety Week

Special Days—Foreign-born Groups

Special Days—Foreign-bor'n Groups
28 Independence Day (Czechoslovakia) '

30 Rizal Day (in Philippines)

Special Events

Same events as for September, plus:

Football and volley ball type activities
Races Same events as for November, plus:

Hiking Communit_y_s_inging of Christmas carols (Christmas)
Paper craft, dramatic presentation (Hallowe’en) Craft ac-t1v1t1es for decorating communlty Christ-

Essay contest (Fire Prevention Week, Good Citi- mas tree _ _ O H
zens Week, etc.) Pageant depicting act1v1t1es (Red Cross)

Exhibition physical skills, contests (Good Health Story-acting (Forefathers‘ Day, Amundsen)
Week) Patriotic rally, addresses,_essay contest (U. S. Con-
Harvest festival (Apple Week) st1tut1on, Woodrow Wilson, etc.)

Folk dancing and singing (Czechoslovakian Inde- Winter carnivals .
pendence Day) Part1es (New Year, Chr1stmas)

Special Events

What They Say About Recreation

u HE VERY NATURE of youth demands adven-
T ture, the opportunity to be active, the chance
to create and discover, the challenge of a
career, the promise of achievement, the right to
be identified with a cause, and a reasonable hope
to give reality to high ideals.”—Thomas H. N el-
son in Planning the Future with Youth.

“A hobby is a pursuit which adds zest to life
through the sheer satisfaction of doing, not some-
thing dropped into an unfilled space simply to fill
it. No hobby is satisfactory unless it simultane-
ously satisfies and stimulates curiosity and intel—
lectual interest. It must give us joy on the road
but interest in pressing on to new revelations.”—

Bassie D. Sharp.

“Leisure is here and here to stay. The \Vestern
World as. a whole has more hours of leisure than
of work. Leisure can be a blessing to men and
women or it can be their complete undoing. One
of the most important functions of the schools
today is to educate boys and girls for the whole-
some, wise use of leisure time. Culture has been
built upon leisure. Until a civilization advances
far enough to free some of its people for art and
music and science and philosophy, mankind re-

mains in a barbarian state.”—Carlefon Washburne
in Our Schools.

“If I have learned anything throughout these
many years it is surely this, that it is our common
life that matters, and that to stay apart from it is
the death of art, of politics and of religion.”—
.Mary K. Simlehoz'itch in Neighborhood.

“I want to make a plea for a program in your
schools and playgrounds which will prepare folks
-—and particularly children-in the art of outdoor
living and in the appreciation of those values in
nature which are indescribable and which one
must experience for himself. . . . Conservation of
nature’s gifts is a sacred duty of this generation
and all generations to follow. To conserve does
not mean to refrain from human use and enjoy-

556

ment but rather to use understandineg and with
respect for nature.”—Franla A. Kittredge, Re—

gional Director, National Park Service.

“We shall never have any great art in this
country until many people are doing things with
their hands. How can we understand the man of
skill unless we try to do some of the things he
does? We should all try painting and modelling
—not with the idea of becoming great artists, but
to know something of the difficulties of the arts
and be able to appreciate it when we meet the
triumphant achievements of the great masters.”—

Lorado Taft.

“It should be a principle, infiexible, a policy,
fixed, unshakable, that recreation shall not be ruth-
lessly, recklessly exploited for private profit. A
policy of ample community recreation should be
unalterably established; like law enforcement and
the police department, like fire protection and the
fire department, and health and sanitation.”—

Austin E. Griffiths.

“The use of leisure is a highly individualistic
problem. It cannotbe solved by anything but in—
dependent thought and a fair—minded investiga-
tion of its possibilities. It is an all-important
problem, for upon its happy solution depends the
quality of life necessary for the development of a
personality capable of serving, cooperating with,
and contributing to humanity, and finally of en—
joying the happiness which is the fruit of living
wisely.”—Austen For Riggs in Play.

“The criterion of play for the child should be
fun, zest and spontaniety. Dry and cold formality
will chill the spirit. One should seek here'neither
a training in discipline nor a disciplinary process,
but an expansive and expressive adventure in en-
larging life. . . . Play is something more than an
arrest of the child’s turbulent power. It should
carry the child deep into friendly human life, and
bring him back with enriched understanding and
faith.”—Jolm Eisele Davis in Play and Mental
Health.

Recalling Old Times

If you're giving a party, now that the
old year is a thing of the past, why
not make it a new and timely one?

Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
And never brought to mind?
Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
And days of auld lang syne?

NCE UPON A TIME there was an old, old man

who went about at the end of every year

unmercifully mowing down everything in
front of him. But there were two things which
escaped his relentless scythe. These were old
friends-and old times. They were too good for-
Old Father Time.

And so each New Year we snatch a minute or
two from our hilarity to pause and consider the
significance of “Auld Lang Syne,” to remember
old friends and “the good old days.” i

_ Suppose you have already had your big celebra-

tion—with other, newer friends, perhaps? What
about the “gang”? Should auld acquaintance be
forgot? By no means! And there’s no time like
the present to have that party you’ve always
wanted for them.

First, pin on the walls of the entertainment
room a miscellaneous collection of cartoons, snap-
shots, or newspaper pictures illustrating past “red-
letter” days in your community. Mix in with
these any kodak pictures from your own or
friends’ memory books—scenes-that are reminis—
cent-of the gay times you and “the crowd” have
enjoyed together. Only the happy events should
be among your pictures. A few cartoons featur-
ing amusing predicaments which have befallen
some of your old buddies usually causes great
merriment. For instance, if you have a picture of
Rosalind in the costume that won her first prize
at the Tacky Picnic, by all means use it!

Naturally there are limitless possibilities for the
kind of party you can have, but since you’re giv-
ing it for your old friends, and in memory of
“the good old times” you may be able to use some
of the following games:

Time Tables. Make a timepiece by placing a.

white paper cover over a round table and marking

 

it with bold black hours and hands. The hours
should be cut out of black paper and pasted in
place. Black cardboard should be used for the
hands which are fastened with a pin to the paper
tablecloth. The leader “sets” the hands of the
table clock, and then asks the person sitting by
the hour hand to draw a slip from a box marked
“The Pass-Time of the Hour.” \V hen the stunt
is drawn, the unfortunate victim is not asked to
perform alone, however. The minute hand is
pointing to her companion in misery, and the two
perform together.

Timely Tots. To make sure that your party gets
off with a hilarious start, dress each guest, re-
gardless of sex, size, or protest, in a baby bonnet
made of crepe paper. Make the long paper strings
in a bow tied under the chin. Prepare the hon-
nets beforehand and appoint a few “nurse maids”
who can be relied upon to see that the “babies.”
are all arrayed in the timely garb! '

What Time Is It? Now give the men a chance
to get in the spotlight and show off their new
bonnets. Have each one drawn from a hat a slip
of paper on which is written a sentence pertain-
ing to time.’ The girls draw from another hat
which contains duplicate slips. Each man in turn
steps forward and demonstrates his particular
kind of time. His only chance to get out of the
spotlight is to act so effectively that the girl with

' the matching time slip will recognize him as) her

partner. N 0 one is allowed to show his card; I‘

I I v. I 1 -¢ . 1.
Cards might have “t1mes”.th,at are eaSIIy acted,
such’as Killing Time, Beating Time, Saying Time,

557

i

q

558 RECALLING OLD TIMES

Marking Time, Losing Time, the March of Time,
Two—four Time, Six-eight Time, Fast Time, Slow
Time, Night Time or Supper Time. Or more dif-
ficult ones like a Stitch in Time Saves Nine, Once
upon a Time, Time will Tell, Time Is Money, the
Nick 0’ Time, Punching the Time Clock, Time
and Tide Wait for N 0 Man, Time Heals All
Wounds, Backward Turn Backward, Oh Time in
Your Flight, Time on My Hands, Time Out, and
Footprints in the Sands of Time.

Time to Sing. An impromptu singing contest
can be great fun. Select two leaders and let each
in turn choose a singer for his choir until both
choral societies are assembled. Now tell them that
you have a pathetic little song which has no tune.
Give them fifteen minutes to compose a suitable
tune, and then require them to sing the song with
actions. Emphasize your demand for actions!
Then hand the rival choruses about half a dozen
“song sheets” on which the following is written:

I wish I wuz a little clock
That didn’t have a chime

Or strike or nothin’ all day long,
But just be tellin’ time.

I’d run on slow time all my life;
I’d never run on quick,

And if they didn’t wind me up
I wouldn’t even tick.

The applause of the audience—if any—deter-
mines the winner.

The Riddle of Life. Each couple is supplied with
one pencil and a sealed envelope containing a set
of riddles. On the word “Go l” all the envelopes
are torn open and the riddles attacked. Each cou-
ple works together. Here is an easy list.

1. What makes a striking present? (A clock)
2. When is a clock dangerous? (When it strikes one.)

3. What day of the year is a command to go forward?
(March 4.)

4. When the clock strikes 13, what time is it? (Time

to take it to the repair shop!)

5. What is always behind time? (The back of a clock,
of course.)

6. I have hands but no fingers; no bed but lots of ticks.
What am I? (A clock.)

7. What comes once in a minute. twice in a moment,
but not once in a thousand years? (The letter M.)
8. What is it that every living person has seen but will
never see again? (Yesterday.)
9. What is time and yet a fruit?
(A date.)
10. What does the proverb say
time is? (Money.)
Set. an alarm clock to ring
in five minutes, and warn the

players beforehand that this

will be the signal to stop. If at the end of this
time nobody has solved the entire list, give them
another few minutes. Then read off the answers.
Award the winning couple two little calendars
tagged “Time Will Tell.”

Up with the Times. Guests are given sheets of
paper marked into seven divisions to resemble a
week’s page of a diary. Each signs his name at
the top, and folding over the paper passes it to the
player at the right. In not more than seven words,
players write in Monday’s space an account of
what they did on that day. Then the diaries are
passed to the right again after being carefully
folded. The next player writes in the space for
Tuesday. This continues until a full week has
been entered. Then each in turn loudly announces
the name at the top of the page he is holding and
reads the confession.

Passing of Time. Here is one of the old “pass-
ing” games, always exciting while they last. Pro-
vide a double set of tiny tokens symbolic of the
months of the year, such as calendars for Janu-
ary, hearts for February, rabbits for March, paper
umbrellas for April, Maypoles for May, paper
roses or pictures of a bride for June, flags or fire-
crackers for July, oak leaves or pictures of a
picnic for August, schoolhouse pictures for Sep-
tember, Jack-o’-lanterns for October, nuts or tur-
keys for November, Santa Claus for December.
Most of these may be illustrations from maga-
zines, while a few could easily be miniatures of
the actual thing. With your “months” prepare two
large cardboard sheets on each of which you have
marked in black crayon twelve squares and above
the squares, in correct order, the names of the
months.

Divide your guests in equal sides and line them
up facing each other with the leaders at the head
and the calendar charts at the foot of the lines.
Each leader is given a tiny tray containing a year
of jumbled “months.” On the word “Go l” the
leaders start their months, one at a time, down
their respective lines. When they reach the end
player, he puts them in their proper places on the
calendar. The side whose end man is the first to

do this accurately .wins the

The activities suggested for this party race-
are based on material taken from "Sum-
mer Activities and Independence Day
Celebration." Number 8 of the Activi-
ties Bulletin Series issud by the Chicago
Park District. and used by permission.

Time to Retire. Father Time
stands in his “sphere” which
is chalked off from the rest
of the room. He has a white

RECALLING OLD TIMES 559

forelock, beard, and a cardboard scythe. He stalks
solemnly back and forth, trying the edge of his
scythe from time to time.

“O Father Time, what time is it?” the leader
of the mortals asks. Father Times does not look
at' his questioners but replies, “One o’clock” or
“Three minutes past two,” or some other iigure.
Whereupon the mortals sigh with relief and re-
peat their questions. This goes on as long as
Father Time feels like keeping them in suspense.
When he gives the time to retire, which is twelve
o’clock midnight, the mortals must turn and run
to the goal for their lives. Father Time is pur-
suing and should his scythe touch them, they are
called “dead ones” and must fall out of the game.

A clever Father Time can give the mortals pal-
pitation at any time of the game by merely reply-
ing, “Twelve o’clock,” and stopping. There is in-
stantly a wild stampede for the goal, but since he
did not say “Twelve o’clock midnight” it was not
retiring time, and so these would-be “fly-by-
nights” have their names listed to pay forfeits
later on. When all but one have succumbed to
Father Time’s scythe, the survivor becomes Father
Time. ‘

Wishing Time. A half sheet of note paper is
handed to each guest as chairs are drawn around
a large table. Holding their papers under the
table the players are asked to tear out “by guess”
the shape of some “thing” they particularly de-
sire. It may be a dog, a car, a diamond ring, or an
airplane. Pencils are passed, and still without
looking, each one puts a “trade-mark” on his mas-
terpiece. When all have finished, the papers are
passed around the table from player to player.
Each one examines the torn out object as it
reaches him and jots down on a card the “trade-
mark” and what he thinks it is. Then one by one
the “artists” arise, exhibit their own works of art
and announce what they represent. Prizes are
given to the best guesser and the most skillful
artist.

Timely Stunts. “Slow Time” requires only three
characters, the Stranger, Old Timer, and the
Scene Shifter. The Stranger stands hesitatingly
beside a cardboard mile-post which reads “Busy
Corner.” He looks up and down the street, tries
repeatedly to cross but retreats to the sidewalk
before the imaginary stream of traffic. If the
Scene Shifter honks a horn off stage, the little
man’s narrow escape of being run down by a taxi
can be made almost as breathtaking as the real
affair.

Finally the Old Timer strolls up and the
Stranger hails him, “Say, does the Riverside bus
come along this way?” (Use local name) “Sure,”
replies Old Timer. “Just watch for No. 51.”
“Thanks,” says the Stranger, and Old Timer
leaves. The Stranger continues to wait. He yawns
and looks at his watch. The Scene Shifter shuf-
fles in and places a large sign marked “Four
Hours Later” where all can see it.

Old Timer comes in again. He stares in utter
astonishment at the Strangers. “Well,” he cries,
“for pity’s sake! Hasn’t your bus come along
yet ?”

The Stranger smiles patiently. “Not yet,” he
says, “but it won’t be long now because I’ve
counted forty-nine so far. Two more will make
the fifty-first.” Old Timer puts his hands to his
head, staggers dizzily and falls dead on the rug.

By this time Old Father Time has probably had
enough frolic for one evening. You may still have
time for a little ragtime at your party. But- then
you’ll want to depart in pretty fast time because
it’s way past time for your slumber-time.

But from time to time you will remember that
this time you really had the time of your life. You
and “the gang” . . . and auld lang syne . . . sing-
ing farewell till next time!

Here are a few additional activities:

The Game of Months. One of the players is ap-
pointed to be Father Time. He appoints the other
months beginning with January and proceeding
through the year, giving each player a month.
Everyone is then lined up in front of Father Time
who throws a ball toward the line, at the same
time calling out the name of some month. The
player who has the name of that month must
either catch or get possession of the ball before
Father Time can count ten. If he is unsuccesful
he must take Father Time’s place.

Lost Time. Cardboard hour-glasses have differ-
ent amounts of time written on them, such as one
day, thirty seconds, six hours, twenty-five min-
utes, etc. The hour-glasses are hidden about the
room and the leader announces that much time has
been lost during the year and that a prize will be
given to the team finding the most time in two
minutes. Time is counted according to the amount
written on the hour-glass.

NOTE: Suggestions for parties of various types will be
found in “Parties for Special Days of the Year,” pub-
lished by the National Recreation Association. Price
fifty cents.

~.——..r—»__
-r

 

The Great Recreational Adventure

and the ski enthusiasts are

thrilled with the knowledge
that a long season for winter
sports is promised! Since the last of October,
with fall sports taking the spotlight and with
weather conditions ideal for golf and football,
each week end the more adventuresome have
wended their way into the mountains surrounding
Salt Lake where the skiing is already good.
_ With four feet of perfect powder snow in the
winter resorts, skiers report the snow deep enough
for safety and so light and fiuffy turns can be
made with great case. This year, with skiing
starting in October, and the hope that it will last
until the first of June, as it usually does, Salt
,Lake City can now boast of being one of the few

cities with a seven month skiing season only thirty
miles from Main Street.

560

IT'S SNOWING in Salt Lake City

By JESSIE SCHOFIELD
Superintendent of Recreation

Salt Lake City. Utah

, The ski shops are open and
merchants are displaying their
wares in fashion shows, at dinner
meetings and afternoon teas. The
Recreation Department is cooperating with the
Chamber of Commerce, Forest Service and the
Tribune newspaper in conducting its third annual
\Vinter Sports Show, which was held November
28th, 29th, and 30th to inaugurate officially the
winter program. Each of the merchants selling
ski equipment and apparel has been invited to
have a booth in the hall in (which to display his
merchandise and apparel. An entrance fee of
$10.00 is charged to cover the cost of the show
itself, the booths being built by the newspaper in
whose auditorium the show is held. -

The program for the Winter Sports Show wil
feature a showing of the “Ski Chase” film and a
Fashion Review. Each merchant who wishes to

THE GREAT RECREATIONAL ADVENTURE 561

enter the Review—and no extra charge is made for
it———is limited to two models, a boy and a girl. Ski
clothes and lounging clothes to be donned after
skiing will be shown. Because of the large num-
ber of people who are interested in skiing and the
limited seating capacity of the auditorium, admis-
sion is by tickets. These are distributed through
the newspaper office at no cost.

An additional stimulus to winter sports in Salt
Lake has been added this summer by the comple-
tion by the National Forest Service and Salt Lake
County Road Department of a wide highway to
Alta, the former world-famed mining town just
an hour’s drive from the heart of the city.

From Mining Camp to Ski Paradise

Many ski experts and professionals of the
United States and European countries have visited
Alta in the past few seasons when access to the
town for skiing was possible only in the late fall
before the heavy snows closed the road, or by
skiing some six or eight miles over the mountain
tops from Park City and Brighton. All have ex-
tolled it as a skiing paradise second to none in the
United States and comparing favorably with ski-
ing areas in the Alps.

A ski lift is being built at Alta financed by local
ski leaders as a community enterprise. The dedi-
cation of the lift was held November 27th as the
first event in the Winter Sports Show and the
only event in the festival taking place at a skiing
area.

Alta has a romantic history. In 1868 it was
established as a mining camp. Seventy years have
ticked off since its “bonanza days”; now it is
virtually deserted, dozing high on the northern
flanks of Mount Baldy, a lofty peak of the Wa-
satch range, and looking off west to the green Salt
Lake Valley far below.

It has dreams to dream—of the estimated
$37,000,000 in lead, silver,
copper and gold it produced

lation in excess of 5,000. Then it had a hundred
buildings, some of them three—story affairs. Now
its population numbers two, both of whom vote
religiously each year, and all that remains of the
town is a mere handful of buildings along the
faded Main Street; their roofs beaten down by
the crushing snows of many winters.

Until the railroad was completed in Salt Lake
City ore was hauled by ox team down Little Cot-
tonwood Canyon to Ogden some sixty miles away.
Then it traveled by rail to San Francisco, by sail—
ing vessel around Cape Horn to Swansea, Wales,
where it was refined. There were no smelters in
this country for ore at that time.

The story of the Emma Mine perhaps describes
best the life of the mining camp, showing as it
does its feverish years of prosperity, its fitful
flashes of reviving production and its many years
of unproductivity. Four early miners spent ten
months sinking a shaft ninety—three feet through
hard rock—and found ore. The Emma poured
out its riches with a lavish hand. It was operated
by its discoverers until early in 1871 when it was
sold for $1,500,000 and the Emma Mining Com-
pany of Utah was formed. The size and extra-
ordinary richness of the ore had gained by this
time international fame for the Emma. British
capital became interested, finally buying it for
$5,000,000 half in money and half in shares.

Due to the demonetization of silver and the
excessive cost of getting the ore to smelters, 1873
saw the virtual cessation of mining in the district.
Now in 1938 this romantic old mining camp is
receiving a “shot-in-the-arm” by the hardy ski
rider. The new road built by the United States
Government through the National Forest Service
and the Salt Lake County Commission has made.
it possible for winter sport enthusiasts to get into
this famous old district by car the year round. The
road will also afford low cost transportation for

the mines of the district with

the hope of Mr. George N:

in its heyday years of the
60’s and 70’s and of its possi-
bilities as a gold producing
center of the future. Alta
was a prosperous camp of
the first magnitude when its
mines produced much- high-
grade ore. There were some
fifteen large mines with many
small ones. At its zenith in the
gilded age it boasted a popu-

"Have you ever stood on the summit of
a high mountain in winter on a clear.
frosty morning and drunk in the beauty
around you? Have you ever felt the
keen wind on your face as you glided on
long sl<is silentlyl smoothly and swiftly
down a twisting mountain trail carpeted
with soft and brilliant snow? If you
haven’t done these things r-then you
haven't experienced some. of the finest
pleasures life has to offer."—-;From a
bulletin issued by the Western Massa-
chusetts Winter Sports Committee.

\Natson, Mayor of Alta and
now ski enthusiast, that again
it will become a mining cen-
ter of note.

Making the Area Accessible
~ The Utah State Road Com-
mission and the Salt Lake

'County Commissioner have

made plans and have pur-

567 THE GREAT RECREATIONAL ADVENTURE

d

chased equipment for keeping the highway cleared
of snow throughout the winter. A lodge is being
built by the Forest Service to provide shelter for
“after skiing.” The snow averages eleven feet
deep in the area; the average elevation is 8700
feet above sea level, and therefore the finest pow-
der snow exists in this area affording splendid
skiing for seven months of the year.

Salt Lake City’s winter sport enthusiasts will
long sing the praises of the National Forest Ser-
vice who have assisted in opening this and other
ski areas to the population as a whole. This in—
creased enthusiasm has only come during the last
live years. Previous to that time only the more
daring knew the thrills of skiing over the moun-
tain tops some 10,000 to 12,000 feet high on a
long six mile trek to Brighton, one of the most
popular mountain resorts near Salt Lake, carry—
ing bedding and food in packs on one’s back.
When the destination was reached one had to “dig
down” to the cabins to get in, and woe betide if
enough wood had not been left in the fall for a
three day stay!

The new road will not bring the thrills those
days afforded. The worst experiences came if an
unforseen storm came up on the long trek over
W'indy Pass which even in clear weather always
has a wind which threatens to blow skier and
snow right off the mountain side. The fears and
hard work in reaching Brighton were soon for—
gotten as soon as a cup of hot soup had been
devoured. The ecstasy in viewing the beauties of
winter by moonlight, of skiing through the dark
pines in the hush of night when the stillness was
broken only by the shouts of one’s comrades and
by the sound of one’s skis on the snow was worth
the hard grind of “Skiing to Brighton.”

The second day was spent skiing on those mar-
velous slopes which now, because of the diligence
of the County Road Commission, can be reached
by car. The third day the more ardent and endur-
ing skied over the mountains (another six miles)
to Alta and then home, while the remainder skied
the long fourteen miles to the mouth of the can-
yon where friends saw that cars waited. Four-
teen glorious miles of downhill unbroken snow
(if you were the first down _or none in front of
you had fallen) afforded the thrills of steep
slopes for the better skiers and gentle slopes for
the others—fourteen miles of just “skiing” with-
out having to climb back up the hill. What a
thrill if the next day one could proclaim, “I skied
right to the mouth of the canyon without a fall.”

The new roads into all the skiing paradises
around Salt Lake—and only a few have been
mentioned—mean that many, many more people
are skiing, and are skiing much better. Gone are
the days when the best skier was the one who
could ride the steepest and longest hill in the
shortest time and stand up in a straight down hill
run. Now the talk is of “Gelandesprung,”
“Christiana” and of “Slalom.” Now the best
skier is the one who can turn the best, is the most
graceful and adept in all the intricate phases of
skiing.

And is it fun? The thousands of cars filled
with skiers of all ages and sizes which each week
end or holiday are seen wending their way to the
hills prove the popularity of winter sports. The
National Forest Service has also cleared many
lakes for ice skating which heretofore has suf-
fered in the city itself for lack of cold enough
weather. Tobogganing has always been popular
wherever enough snow was found on a steep
slope. Now all three winter pastimes—skiing, to-
bogganing and ice skating can be enjoyed the same
day in the same area. Winter sports are truly the
great recreational adventure! .

Salt Lake City invites the world to come and ski.

“It never ceases to amaze me what pleasure the
elongation of one’s feet—which is really ,what the
ski is—can give. It also never ceases to amaze
those who try it-for the first time, no matter
what age they are. The beginner can get real
enjoyment from the slightest slope. The expert,
on the other hand, can never run out of ticklish
places to try his skill. Skiing is adaptable to
everybody. After this fact of universality, I think
the most valuable aspect of the sport is in the
realization that it gives you a freedom undreamt.
With skis on your feet the whole wide, snow—
covered world becomes your playground. The
untrailed vastnesses of mountains are made ac—
cessible, and new beauties opened up which are
never seen except by this medium.

“Skiing is the least monotonous of the uni-
versal sports. No two hills are alike, no two
trails offer the same curves, runs and surprises:
and even if you are limited to an after-supper
radius of miles, no two days are alike as to speed
and other conditions. . . . On the ski trail lies
health, tingling, muscular, ozone-made health, on
it lies beauty, and at the end a self-satisfaction
which is the basis of content.”—Omulf Poulsen
in Skiing.

 

Royal Games in the Land of Loch Lomond

ROM THE

m o d e s t

country
dance on the vil-
lage green to the
might and pomp
of the modern
Olympic Games,
the world today
i s s p o rt c o n-
scious. Football,
wrestling, weight
throwing, high
jumping—ath-
letics are ath-
letics the world
over. Except in
Scotland!

Months have
passed, leaving
in their wake the memory of a glorious sunny day
in September, the Royal Gathering on Deeside,
perhaps the most successful and most glamorous
of all the one hundred years of Scottish Braemar
Games since the time of Queen Victoria. And
almost before the new year has both feet on the
ground, Scotland will be dreaming and planning
for even a greater Royal Braemar Gathering in
1939—and years to come.

True , the Scottish Games include the broad
jump, the Ioo-yard dash, pole vaulting, and the
other usual events of track and field common to
most countries. But it was not only these tests of
athletic skill, speed, and endurance that drew over
25,900 people to the Royal Deeside last year for
the Braemar Gathering. No other country is quite
so rich in historic color and tradition—lovely,
romantic Scotland, the land of Loch Lomond and
Glen Derry, the Auld Brig o’ Balgownie and
Aberbrothock Abbey, Invercauld House and Bon-
nie Glen Shee ; the country of the romantic, beau-
tiful Highlands and the sweet, storied Border-
land with its Palace of Holyroodhouse and its
haunting memories of Mary Queen of Scots,
tragic and beautiful. Yes, the kilts and the clans,
the birches and the bagpipes are all a part of that
enchanting country immortalized by Bobbie Burns
and Sir Walter Scott, a part the cherished tradi-

 

tion of old Scotland which new Scotland cannot
let die.

And so—each year the Royal Highland Gath-
ering is planned once more, to rekindle in the souls
of the Scots something of the ancient lire ; to re-
store and to keep alive in their minds something
of the national pride and love, the tradition, the
color, the pageantry of that Scotland so loved by
Victoria.

And so—they come, thousands of them, to see
the hammer-throwing and high-jumping contests,
but even more eagerly to watch the march of the
Duff Clansmen, the massed piped bands, the High—
land Fling, to look upon the panorama of Scot-
land’s grandeur, a kaleidoscope of color and
romance, and to visit the historic haunts of Scot—
land—the abbeys, cathedrals, castles, towers, and
glens.

And so—the Braemar Games, combining suc-
cessful athletic interests with picturesque, story-
book tradition, have become a world-famous
Scottish Highland event.

The Legend of King Malcolm Canmore

Even the Scottish Games have their own legend-
ary foundation which adds another dash of color
to Loch Lomond traditions. Like the Olympic
games of ancient Greece, these old Highland con-

563

564 ROYAL GAMES IN THE LAND OF LOCH LOMOND

tests grew out of the necessity of the times, that
of training the young men in feats of endurance,
skill, and strength; and how could that be better
achieved than by pitting the strength of man with
man and of clan with clan in friendly contest?
Legend says that King Malcolm Canmore in his
royal residence at Kindrochit realized the need for
strong, swift messengers to serve His Majesty
and the country when cause arose. Here in this
Highland region there were men of brawn, en—
durance and courage. So the King called a great
gathering of the men of the strath and the glens
to meet on the wide level haugh between the Dee
and the precipitous cliff which was known as the
Rock of the Lion’s Face. And in the haugh of the
Dee at Invercauld, the King saw the big, strong
Highland men prove their htness to be a King’s

messenger in many forms of athletic prowess. .

But the competitors reached so high a standard
that the King knew not how to choose his man,
till looking around, his eye caught the towering
face of the Lion Rock.

“Who first wins the summit of yonder rock
will be King’s messenger!” he said. It was a
gruelling race, but in a second three gallant
brothers sprang to the task. The youngest was a
mere stripling, and everything favored his elder
and more seasoned brothers. But he was very
game, and his mind was set on gaining the coveted
honor. W'ithin a dozen yards of the crest of the
rock he drew leveLwith his foremost rival. A
superhuman effort gained him a foot or two of
ground, but his brother, equally determined not
to lose the prize at this stage, seized the young-
ster’s kilt as he swung past. In a flash, the gar—
ment was loosened from the stripling’s waist, and
he had mounted the rock in triumph.

The feat was talked of for a long time, and it is
a fact that the race which tradition says was
instituted by Malcolm Canmore in the tenth cen—
tury formed a feature of the Braemar Highland
Gathering up to the time when Queen Victoria
herself became a deeply interested patron and
showed her practical interest in many ways. One
of these was to request the discontinuance of this
dangerously strenuous trial of strength.

Queen Victoria’s Patronage

It was in 1832 that the hrst Scottish Games
were held at Braemar, but many years passed
before they attracted really wide interest. In the
royal palace at Kensington the Princess Victoria
had read and re-read Scott’s novels and had

steeped herself in the history and description of
this romantic nation. When on the advice of a
physician, the young Queen Victoria was sent to
Deeside in search of a healthful change of air,
she immediately fell in love with the valley, and
before long Her Majesty was in possession of a
castle of her own, the royal estate of Balmoral.
Here she learned more about the Highland Clans
and how much their heritage of kinship meant to
them.

She had heard how in the old days the High-
land Gatherings were contests between champions
of local repute. She was thrilled by the knowledge
that for weeks before the event the glens had
resounded with the music of bagpipe practice and
that the local joiner, shoemaker and blacksmith
rehearsed with one another in tossing the caber
and putting the shot in preparation for the great
day. She encouraged the idea of local competi-
tion, realizing the advantage of developing the
individual in those things that come nearest the
spirit. In this way she had a great bond of un—
derstanding with her retainers at Balmoral. She
brought back to Scotland something of the clan
spirit of equality. Attempts were often made to
influence her to postpone her frequent Scottish
visits, because of the difficulties encountered in
England by her long absences, but these were
seldom successful. She longed and waited for
the early days of spring when she could visit her
beloved Balmoral.

The Queen, at an early stage of her occupancy
of Balmoral, manifested a lively interest in the
Highland Gathering, and many marks of royal
favor were bestowed upon it. Not only was the
Society itself honored by the designation “Royal,”
but its annual Gathering was invited many times i
to hold the meeting at Balmoral. Her Majesty on
these occasions extended to the clansmen lavish
hospitality, and in the words of an old chronicler,
treated them more as friends than subjects. The
gatherings of the later Victorian days had begun
to take hold of a wider public outside the neigh—
borhood of Balmoral, and grew from a modest oc-
currence concerning mainly the people of the glens
of Upper Deeside to a royal event of importance
in the district. The patronage of the dearly be-
loved Queen Victoria made of the Gathering the
glorious spectacle that it is today.

Other Sovereigns Approve

The sovereigns who followed the great Queen
carried. on, the Royal traditions that had gathered

ROYAL GAMES IN THE LAND OF LOCH LOMOND 565

around the Braemar Games. King Edward gave
his patronage to the Braemar Royal Highland
Society, and he and his Queen and their family
were always present at the Gathering. The ac-

. cession of George V set a further seal upon the

popularity of the Braemar Gathering.

The Princess Royal Park, presented by the
Duke of Fife to the Braemar Royal Highland
Society, was carefully laid out and many improve-
ments carried out in the early years of George
V’s reign, and by August, 1914, everything seemed
set for an unprecedentedly successful Gathering.
But the war intervened, and for five years there
was no great assembly of royal and noble resi-
dents of Deeside, of famous athletes and pipers
and dancers, of eager spectators from every point
of the compass, gathered around the green arena
with its circling hills at Braemar.

The revival of the Gathering came in the
autumn following the cessation of the war; cars
and coaches rolled up in hundreds by all the routes
that lead to Braemar. The Braemar Gathering
had become an event of world-wide interest!

The coming to the throne of the present King
and his much loved Queen Consort meant a great
deal to the Balmoral countryside. A Scottish
Queen stirred the romantic hearts of the Highland
folks that had always beat strongly with royal
regard for the reigning house. They knew how
genuine and deep was the attachment of the new
King and Queen and their daughters to their
Highland home and indeed to all that pertains to

Scotland.

The 1938 Gathering a Success

With sprigs of holly and fir in their bonnets and
standards proudly borne at their head, to the skirl
of the pipes the Duff Clansmen and the Invercauld
men marched to the Princess Royal Park where

they circled the arena be—
fore disbanding to await
the arrival of the royal
party.

The enthusiastic greet—
ing that awaited the King
and Queen and Princesses
as they rode in the pic-
turesque semi-state coach
with outriders through
cheering crowds lined by
the Duff and Farquharson
Highlanders was worthy
of the occasion. The obvi—

"The Braemar Royal Highland Society has been
in existence for over a hundred years. Its
chief object has been the creation of a Fund
for Widows and Orphans and Maintenance of
Sick and Superannuated Members. The ordi-
nary funds of the Society are applied entirely
to this purpose. Any Lady. Nobleman or Gen-
tleman may be admitted as an Honorary
Member by making a donation of not less than
tive guineas. The Funds obtained from such
sources are devoted to the encouragement of
Athletic Sports and are given as prizes at the
Annual Gathering which takes place each year
by approval of His Majesty the King and
other patrons." — From the Games program.

ous enjoyment of the Royal Family and their
relatives and friends in the Royal enclosure added
zest to the interest of thousands taking in the
whole splendid scene from the arena.

The 1938 Gathering at the Princess Royal
Park, one of the most perfectly successful gath-
erings ever held in the long history of these
events, was notable for its return to the ideals of
earlier years which gave opportunity for local
athletes to show their prowess to the folks of the
immediate surrounding countryside for the mere
love of sport. Amateurs only were allowed to
compete, a requirement which proved an added
attraction to what was already a most p0pular
annual event.

Again there were hammer throwing contests,
caber tossing, Ioo—yard sprints, running high
leaps, wrestling, and other heavy and light events.
But there was as much interest in the pipe band
competitions and the dancing to a sailor’s horn-
pipe as in the number of athletic records broken.
Ever since Donal’ Dinnie, Scottish showman and
athlete, who is as much a part of Scottish tradi-
tion as Malcolm Canmore and Robert the Bruce,
conceived the idea of swinging the hammer round
his head in a complete circle before throwing it,
the Scottish Games have been emphasizing skill
as well as power in their contests.

The climax of the whole day’s proceedings was
the magnificent spectacle of the march of the
massed pipe hands. This parade was an innova-
tion in the Coronation year, and was an immensely
popular one. The King and Queen asked the
massed pipe band at the Braemar Gathering to
play “Over the Sea to Skye,” a song which was
sung by boatmen to their Majesties when, as
Duke and Duchess of York, they visited Skye.
The revival of the Highland Reel, which was so
popular at the Gatherings of Queen Victoria’s
time, was a picturesque
feature, and was followed
with keen interest by

Their Majesties and the
Princesses. '

The Empire Exhibition

In connection with the
Games and as a part of
the Braemar Gathering was
the Empire Exhibition
where different countries
of the Empire gathered

(Continued on page 584)

Hints for the Hiker!

creation Department

of the city, the Beth-
lehem, Pa., Hiking Club
has as its purpose the
stimulating of interest
in nature and the out of
doors through hiking.
The club is divided in-
to two groups———a senior
branch for those six—
teen years of age and
over, and a junior
branch for those under
sixteen years. Dues are
50c a year for seniors;
25c for juniors. The
money derived from
the dues is used for club
correspondence, printed
forms and a magazine,
and for club equipment
such as first aid kits
and topographical
maps. On payment of
dues membership cards
are issued which place
the members upon the
secretary’s correspon-
dence list to receive
the club magazine and
notices of all activities.
Members may invite
guests at any time ex~
cept at special events,
but guests may not
participate in more
than two hikes without
joining the club.

Short and long hikes alternate at two-week
intervals throughout the year. The short
hikes are planned over comparatively easy
country and for moderate distances to permit
inexperienced or handicapped hikers to join
the group. The longer hikes are scheduled
over rougher terrain and are designed for more
hardy and ambitious hikers.

The planning of club activities is done
mainly by the Executive Committee and com—

566

SPONSORED by the Rec-

 

 mittee chairmen. Gen-
eral membership meet-
ings are held twice a
year, and on these oc—
casions special enter—
tainment such as mov-
ing pictures and lectures
are supplied. Activities
are not restricted solely
to hikes, but include
special functions such
as dinner hikes to an
inn where games may
be enjoyed in the eve—
ning, sleigh rides, over-
night camping trips,
seasonal social parties
and excursions to such
points of interest as the
Philadelphia Zoo and
Horticultural Hall.
The ofhcers of the
club consist of the
president, vice presi-
dent, and secretary and
there are committees on
membership, hikes,
leaders, publicity,
transportation, enter-
tainment and projects.

Hiking Equipment
Hints

The club has issued
the following sugges-
tions on equipment and
procedure:

One of the most per—
plexing questions for inexperienced hikers is
relative to what to wear and what to carry
along on a hike. In the matter of clothing,
comfort and durability are the main requisites
and appearance only secondary. Rough cloth—
ing that can withstand rain, brambles, etc., is
essential.

The most important item is footwear. Shoes

should be flat-heeled and heavy-soled. If used
solely for hiking, they should be heavily

(Continued on page 585)

Public Recreation on Exhibit

HE GOLDEN GATE In—
Tternational Exposition

will open on Treasure
Island in romantic San
Francisco Bay on February
18 and will continue through December 2, 1939,
commemorating the completion of the San Fran-
cisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and the Golden Gate
Bridge.

Charles W. Davis, Administrator of Recrea—
tional Exhibits. who is Director of Health and
Physical Education in Berkeley, California, in an
article in the November issue of the Journal of
Health and Physical Education states that the Ex—
position marks the first time in the history of
VVorld’s Fairs that public recreation, as such, has
been given financial support and recognition. As
an important part of the exhibit, recreation—its
place in the life of every person in the community,
its relation to the general welfare, the facilities
provided and supervised by the municipalities——
will be told and shown to the visitors attending
during the 288 days of the Exposition.

Ajacent to the athletic stadium where football,
rugby, soccer, baseball, softball, track and field,
volleyball, and other outdoor competitive sports
will be held, a space of 30,000 square feet has
been set aside for the building of a large recrea—
tion pavilion. This building will occupy approxi-
mately 20,000 square feet of the total area, with a
children’s playground and model backyard recre-
ation area, such as any home owner might wish to
build for the enjoyment of his own family, taking
up the remainder of available space.

In the recreation pavilion, which will be 200
feet long, will be found a complete little theater
seating two hundred, where dramatic groups will
present plays, music organizations will give re—
citals, puppet shows will be held, and moving
pictures of interest to recreation groups will be
shown. A large room will house a craft and hobby
exhibit and a Junior Museum. A kitchen for the
preparation of refreshments, offices and informa-
tion booth, a recreation library and study room,
and the large entrance rotunda and exhibit spaces
comprise the interior of the building.

I The Exhibits
The recreation exhibits, prepared by some of

A preview of the exhibits of public
recreation which will be shown at the
Golden Gate International Exposition

the outstanding artists in
the United States, will
be especially noteworthy.
They will be presented in
the form of dioramasmtlie
modern display form which tells a pictorial story
through the use of models built in perspective, in
conjunction with scenic background, all skillfully
handled to preserve the illusion of looking through
a window upon the actual full size scene. Four of
the ten displays will be animated and synchronized
with a mechanical voice reproducing system, so
that a complete interpretation of the story behind
the visual picture is given at the same time.

The subjects of these displays will cover the
entire field of recreation. One large central ex-
hibit will present the general theme of recreation
———the story of the gradual transition in working
conditions that has taken place since the introduc-
tion of the machine, during which the hours of
labor have been shortened and the hours of leisure
time increased in number. It will tell the history
and background of recreation in this country. It
will depict the modern concept of recreation as
being any form of sport, athletics, hobbies, music,
art, crafts, or games in which persons of all ages
take part during their leisure time.

The complete recreational area comprising play-
grounds, athletic fields for outdoor sports, tennis
courts, roque and croquet courts, horseshoe pits,
archery, golf, picnic tables, and outdoor fireplaces.
field house and many other facilities, will be
shown in one display. Night lighting of various
athletic fields will be shown. Water sports at
ocean beaches, plunges, pools, lakes, swimming
holes, wading pools and the many facilities pro«
vided for their enjoyment will be the theme of
still another exhibit. California’s winter sports
and the splendid municipal camps in her high
Sierras will receive recognition through one of the
animated dioramas.

Summer vacation facilities in municipal moun—
tain and ocean camps will be presented in another
exhibit. Three of the displays will show the vari—
ous handicrafts which afford recreation for thou—
sands of young and old alike. Wood-working,
metal craft, basketry, weaving, leather tooling,
model making, carving, and many other crafts will

567

568 PUBLIC RECREATION ON EXHIBIT

be demonstrated by workers in these three “craft
niches.”

A great demonstration program of physical
education and recreation activities is being planned
by San Francisco and East Bay leaders for the

afternoon of April 6.

On November 20th Governor Merriam of Cali-
fornia with a silver spade broke ground for the
recreation building at a ceremony attended by a
number of prominent citizens and recreation lead—
ers of California. The ceremony was preceded by
a luncheon at which Charles W. Davis pointed out
marked improvement in playground planning na—
tionally and stressed California’s important posi-
tion in modern planning for recreation for youth.
Hollis Thompson, City
Manager of Berkeley

the necessity for providing for the boys and girls
of today the best possible recreational opportuni-
ties. He predicted far-reaching results from the
recreational exhibits and activities to be associated
with the Exposition.

It was announced by State Commission engineers
that work will begin immediately 'on the recrea-
tion building dedicated to “better public play—-
grounds and wider opportunities for the youth of
this and succeeding generations.”

“Almost unknown or comparatively incidental
but a few generations ago,” states a release from
the Public Relations Department of the State
Commission, “planned recreation today is de-
cidedly a reality of major proportions with all
progressive municipal governments. Through the

California State Com—
miss10n, in cooperation

and State Commission
Committee Chairman
for Recreation, praised
the results being
achieved by the State in
fostering playground
activities, while Gover-
nor Merriam stressed

Lett to right: Hollis R. Thompson. City Manager.
Berkeley; Josephine Randall. Superintendent of
the San Francisco Recreation Department and
Chairman of the Citizens' Recreation Committee;
Mrs. Sigmund Stern. member of the San Francisco
Recreation Department; Governor Franlc F. Mer-
riam; Charles W. Davis. Recreation Administrator
for the State Commission; Mrs. Vernon Skewes-Cox.
member of the Citizens' Recreation Committee.
and Mr. Paul Fay. also a member of the Committee.

with the Golden Gate
International Exposi—
tion, the State is plan-
ning an exhibition which
will bring the advan—
tages of healthful rec—
reation—more leisure
time—directly to every
community within the
State.”

 

Play Nights or Circus—Which?

FTER WE HAD pre-
sented playground
circuses in Chico

for two years, we found

we had learned some valuable
lessons. The circus if well
done was an expensive proj-
ect. Because a high type of
leader on a playground or on
a special assignment was un-

willing to put on a ragged act, .
the circus proved itself to be something of a dis-

integrating force as far as the continuity of the
playground program was concerned. Ambitious
circus directors and their helpers and parents of
the children, uniting in their desire to place a
creditable performance before audiences, forgot
that the children were on the playgrounds for the
primary purpose of wholesome free play activity.
There was no place in the circus preparation for
the Unskilled child; instead greater emphasis was
placed on his lack of skill, thus creating an un-
wholesome situation.

Over all of these objections, however, rode the
demand for another large scale exhibition. What
were we to do about it?

Weighing the credits and debits of a city-wide
exhibition, the Recreation Department workers
proposed a plan of education for board members
and a substitute for the circus. The educational
phases of our program included a long—time plan
involving visits to play areas by board members,
reports with added emphasis placed upon the edu-
cational features of the program, and conversa-
tions with experienced
workers who continually

A substitution which worked out
happily for everybody concerned

By ELDRIDGE FARNSWORTH
WPA Supervisor

and

RALPH HENSLEY
Superintendent of Recreation

nation, had gone in

heavily for softball. It

was noticed at the soft-

ball contests which were
held at night that there was an
ever increasing attendance on
the part of children and youth.
Because of the method of or—
ganization softball was pri-
marily used as an activity for
adults, leaving no place for
the children. Nevertheless children came in grow—
ing numbers to these nighttime play areas and
organized their own tag games and activities, eager
to play along with their fathers. From watching
these children came the idea of a series of play
nights as a substitute for the circus.

The Idea “Took!”

The play nights were an instantaneous hit. The
first required several leaders for the various ac-
tivities; the second called for a larger number,
and those which followed made it necessary for
the entire staff to be on hand to take care of the
huge crowds of children. Unlike the circus or
other types of shows, play nights required little
or no preparation on the part of the children. The
fields, which were lighted, were blocked off into
sections for softball, games of low organization,
and sports such as croquet, badminton and horse—
shoes. Special leaders were in charge of each
section. The chief preparation for the night
parties was made by the play leaders and directors.
Equipment that the depart-
ment had on hand and, in

stressed the importance of
the everyday playground
program.

The substitute for the
large scale performance
thought by many necessary
in order to secure public ap-
proval of the program came
as the result of an accident
and by evolutionary proc-
ess. Our city, in common
with others throughout the

Chico. California. announces a change of
heart on the subject of playground cir-
cuses! In the November I937 issue of Rec-
reation, under the title. "Don't Double Your
Show." Mr. Hensley shared with us his ex-
perience in producing circusesl as a result
of which he had reached the conclusion
that they can be too big! And now he and
his associates have come to feel that in
spite of the approval of the public. andI
it may be. of recreation board members.
circuses have definite drawbacks. some of
which he and Mr. Farnsworth have set
forth in this article. And so Chico has
substituted play nights for circuses.

some cases, organized games
scheduled ahead of time
were the main requisites
other than leadership train-
ing for play nights.
Interestingly enough, the
parents approved and were
on hand in growing num-
bers to view the programs.
Of course there were not as
many spectators as there

( Continued on page 586)
569

Recreation for the Mentally lll

ROVIDING recreation for a

P mental hospital is a respon-

sible and important task, be-

ing the counterbalance, as it is, of

occupational therapy, and counted

as one of the most beneficial therapeutics em—
ployed in dealing with the mentally ill.

Various recreational activities are being con-
ducted by the Recreational Department of Long-
view State Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio, all tend-
ing to dovetail with other therapeutics developed
by our Superintendent, Dr. E. A. Baber, in order
that complete relaxation may be experienced dur-
ing recreation periods.

Under the leadership of this department classes
are formed for definite activities such as soap sculp-
ture, dancing, dramatics, sketching, Horiculture,
nature study, hikes and literary circles. Twenty
social clubs consisting of patients from various
wards meet in the recreation room for games and
refreshments, each at its own allotted hours.
Tournaments in cards, checkers, chess, horse-
shoes and shuffleboard are arranged for both men
and women. Social contacts are made possible
every day on the wards. Cards and singing are
enjoyed by those who are not able to attend classes
and clubs. Pageants and shows are given twice a
year by the patients, under the leadership of the
director.

In the fall an outdoor carnival is held for the
patients, sponsored by organizations and clubs of
Cincinnati. This is composed of all concessions
such as found at amusement parks with prizes for
all winners of the games. Tickets to everything
are gratis to the patients, who have the privilege
of inviting their friends and relatives to spend the
day with them.

All classes are under the direction of teachers
who are qualified to direct the activities. The first
requirement for this work is an understanding of
the condition of the individual with whom one is
working. The method of approach must be such
that it will not intimidate the patient, and inferi-
ority or supersensitive complexes must be care-
fully studied and properly approached. Full
credit for all efforts made, with constructive ex-
planations for further progress will accomplish
wonders. Tactless criticism causes the patients to

570

By EDNA KIRKER GE-Is
Recreational Director

Longview State Hospital
Cincinnati' Ohio

O

become reluctant to continue ac-
tivities and to lose interest in
recreation assignments.

A ward library is maintained
by the Recreational Department.
Here the patients may rest and enjoy good books
that are donated by the city library and organiza-
tions. Each ward in the hospital is furnished a
number of books each month. This is in charge
of a privileged patient who has proven valuable
in this capacity, and who, through the activity, is
being provided with an outlet for her energies. All
clubs .have their own secretaries. As far as pos-
sible the patients are made to feel that their ac-
tivities are free of rigid discipline, and good fel-
lowship is the keynote of all recreations.

we are justly proud of our splendid vested
choir of thirty patients, men and women, who
sing at all services. They are led in their choral
work by a competent nurse. The Sunday school,
which has a membership of 265 patients, is divided
into eighteen classes and taught by volunteer
teachers from various churches. Catholic, Pro--
testant and Jewish services are held.

Every Wednesday evening there is either a
picture show, dance or a show from the outside
which is enjoyed by more than 700 patients in
our auditorium. During the summer months there
are band concerts and out-of—door shows on the

lawn.

The picnics which are held at city parks are
attended by large numbers. Outings to the city
zoo, with lunches and dancing, and drives through
parks and points of interest are made possible by
cars donated for the occasion by persons inter-
ested in the patients. An outing to the County
Fair every year is anticipated eagerly by all.

A garden club recently formed will appeal to
a large number of women. It will have as
its objective not only the beautifying of the
gardens, but also the furnishing of sick wards
with flowers. Thus, with everything undertaken,
there is some motive which, it is hoped, will
stimulate interest and provide the feeling of work
and play well done, thereby accomplishing the end
for which recreational therapy is intended in a
mental hospital.

Progress ot the Recreational Study

HE RECREATION study is pro-
Tviding pertinent data for the
formulation of policies for
an integrated development
of park and recreational fa-
cilities. It is taking inven-
tory of existing facilities,
analyzing present and fu-
ture needs, investigating po—
tential areas, and examin-
ing the financial resources
of the states with the view
toward establishing a sysa
tem and administrative or-
ganization commensurate
with their ability to pay. In
addition to these major ob-
jectives, special studies are
being made on a nation+wide basis covering park
use, fees and charges, legislation, organized camp‘—
ing, personnel, leadership training and programs.
In general, the study is based upon an approved
procedure which is sufficiently uniform to permit
comparison, analysis and study on a nation-wide
basis and also to allow necessary adjustments to
meet the requirements and conditions in each state.
The National Park Service has set up a small
organization to cooperate with the states in carry-
ing out this undertaking. A small staff of techni-

By SIDNEY S. KENNEDY

Park Planner

in the September I938 issue of the Region-
al Review published by Region One of the
National Park ServiceI Mr. Kennedy tells
of the present status of the Parkl Park-
way and Recreational Area Study which is
being conducted by the states in coopera-
tion with the National Park Service. The
study was authorized by an Act of Con-
gress, Public 770l/2. approved June 23.
I936. which provides for the collection of
"data helpful in developing a plan for co—
ordinated and adequate public park. park-
way and recreational-area facilities for the
people of the United States." We pre-
sent extracts trom Mr.- Kennedy's article.

cal, administrative and clerical

personnel in the Washington

office works through correspond-
ing staffs in each of our
four Regional offices, which
in turn have a limited num-
ber of state supervisors.
Each state supervisor is as-
signed to a state or group of
states and is the direct rep-
resentative of the National
Park Service in cooperating
with the state agencies con-
cerned.

The serious interest of
the states in this work is
shown by the fact that
twenty states are contribut-

ing funds or detailing personnel specifically to
assist in the conduct of the study, and seventeen
others are making more limited contributions
through the part-time assignment of regular per-
sonnel and facilities of state agencies. Twenty-
four state agencies also have obtained WPA proj-
ects to assist in the conduct of their part of the
study.

Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Missis—
sippi, New Jersey, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Ten-
nessee and Virginia have already completed pre—

 

572 PROGRESS OF THE RECREATIONAL STUDY

liminary or tentative final reports, and it is ex-
pected that seventeen other states will have com-
pleted similar reports by the end of the calendar
year. These reports vary considerably in scope
and in the detail of analyses and recommenda-
tions. In general, the states which have had an
established park organization for a number of
years have proceeded further in the way of spe-
cific recommendations for perfecting and round-
ing out their systems and for providing for the
recreational needs of the people. The other states
have not had the springboard of experience from
which to start and have necessarily had to pro—
ceed more slowly. Most of the reports have cov-
ered quite fully the inventory phase of the work.
The reports for Louisiana and New Jersey have
been published by the states and the reports for
Illinois and Nevada will be off the press shortly.
Park Use Study. Material progress has been
made in several of the special related studies
enumerated above. The Park Use Study is being

conducted in 292 state and
local park and recreational
areas throughout the United
States by National Park Ser—
vice, CCC, WPA, state and
local personnel. The purpose
of this study is to collect in-
formation on attendance, ori—
gin and income of patrons, use of facilities, habits
and interests, etc., which will be valuable in de-
termining the adequacy of present facilities and
the need for additional provisions.

Fees and Charges. Last spring the National
Park Service, in cooperation with the American
Institute of Park Executives, initiated a compre-
hensive study of fees and charges covering the
practices and policies of some three hundred state
and local park authorities throughout the country.
The results of this study will be made available
during the coming year.

A Study of Camps. Since the beginning of- the
recreation study, the National Park Service has
been cooperating with the American Camping As-
sociation and the states in conducting a census and
study of organized camps throughout the coun—
try, with a view toward obtaining a complete pic-
ture of this activity and formulating certain poli-
cies and standards. The inventory has been com-
pleted or is well under way in all of the states
except Indiana, Montana, Nebraska, New York,
Ohio and Tennessee. The National Park Service
Advisory Committee on Camping is interested in

The story of the Swift Creek Recre-
ational Area development mentioned
by Mr. Kennedy is told in the Sep-
tember I938 issue of Recreation by

Lee C. Crutchtield. Jr.. under the
title "Virginia's Better Mousetrap."

compiling data on the design, construction and
operation of camping facilities on .public areas
and in formulating standards for health and
safety.

Recreational Planning. Recreational planning
problems which are under consideration by the
National Park Service Advisory Committee on
Skiing include observation and reporting of snow
conditions; first aid, health and safety for skiers;
desirable practices in the design, construction and
maintenance of winter sports structures and fa—
cilities, and desirable policies in the regulation and
use of public lands for winter sports. A special
study of winter sports structures and facilities is
under way, and it is hoped that a monograph on
this subject will be ready for publication some-
time during the coming year.

Topics now under consideration by the Na—
tional Park Service Advisory Committee on Hik-
ing include desirable practices in the deveIOpment
of trails; first aid, health and safety for hikers
and climbers; desirable poli-
cies in the regulation and use
of public lands for hiking and
climbing; development and
protection of “trailways,” and
the distribution of hiking in-
formation.

Leadership. It has been real—
ized that the appropriate use of park and recrea-
tional areas is fully as important as the provision
of physical facilities. Park authorities are becom-
ing conscious of the need for trained leadership
which will assure the optimum use of areas and
facilities with the resulting maximum benefit to
the people. Because no provision for program
leadership has been made in most of the state park
systems, the National Park Service, in coopera-
tion with state authorities, the Works Progress
Administration and the National Youth Admin-
istration, inaugurated demonstration programs in
a number of state parks throughout the Middle
West in the summer of 1937 and has continued
this work in 1938.

An extensive leadership program is being con-
ducted in the greater share of the state parks in
Michigan and Wisconsin by means of personnel
and supervision supplied by the Recreation Divi-
sion of the Works Progress Administration.
Similar programs are being carried out or art
contemplated on several areas in Nebraska and
Minnesota. A naturalist program is being con-

(Continued on page 587)

Teaching Safety by Make-Believe

MALL BOYS and girls with
S home-made badges, hats
and traffic officers’ white
bandoliers, proudly directed
other youngsters with signs on
their chests informing the world at large that they
were automobiles of modern and ancient make, up
and down whitewash marked streets on the play-
ground. The air was tense with excitement;
make-believe motorists changed gears. put out
hands when making turns and stopped for stop
signs, lights or traffic officers. A radio patrol car
weaved through traffic at terrific speed; a peanut
vendor whistled shrilly, and a farmer with a load
of hay hugged the curb as his old horse shied at
passing cars. The traffic officer left her position
to assist an old man on crutches across a busy in-
tersection while “traffic lights” and “automobiles”
applauded enthusiastically.
That’s how the new traffic game of the Montreal

Parks and Playgrounds Association looked to hun— .

dreds of startled adults who stopped to see what
all the excitement was about.

Safety Week Comes to Montreal

Dramatizing traffic by making it a game pro—
vides opportunities for a child to obey traffic rules
hundreds of times during the time the game is in
progress. The game was one of the features of
Safety Week sponsored by
the Playgrounds Associa-
tion last autumn.
It overshadowed
safety talks, pos-
ter contests and
visits to fire sta‘
tions. Each dem-
onstration was in
charge of play-
ground supervis-
ors and an of—
ficer from the
Police Depart—
ment who had
been doing spe-
cial safety edu-
cation work in
schools.

By STANLEY ROUGH

General Supervisor
Parks and Playgrounds Association

Montreal. Canada

Two peanut venders have a collision at a busy
intersection to the despair of the constable!

 

At the commencement of
Safety Week all supervisors
on whose grounds the game
was to be staged met with the
director of playgrounds and
the police officer who had been released by the
Traffic Bureau to work with playground officials.
The idea was carefully explained and the super-
visors made many valuable suggestions. Some of
the supervisors were rather hazy on several of
the traffic laws and these points were made clear.

On returning to their grounds the supervisor
talked over the proposed game with the children.
Very little encouragement or promotion was
needed, however, as imaginations ran riot and
there was little that the agile young minds did not
think of. There was an ambulance with a doctor
and nurse, the ambulance consisting of a small
cart drawn by two small boys. The crew of this
mercy vehicle were suitably garbed and equipped
even down to a home-made first aid satchel and a
stretcher. When an accident occurred with some-
one trying to cross in the middle of a block, the
ambulance rushed to the scene escorted by motor-
cycle police. Traffic was rerouted and the victim
rushed to the hospital. For obvious reasons su-
pervisors allowed only a limited number of acci-
dents and fires.

One hundred and fifty children participated in
each demonstration. Of
this number sixteen were

officers, sixteen
trafhc lights,
chosen from the
ten to twelve
year age-group.
and the rest were
cars, trucks and
pedestrians, with
ages ranging
from eight to ten
y e a r s. A t r e —
mendous num-
ber of children
up to eight years
of age were the
most interested
spectators. Each
demonstration

573

o,_,.:" rI-I
' o

' Kiwis-A; ‘§- ‘3 ‘ Mn};-
Courtesy Montreal Daily Star

S74

lasted one hour, and at
its conclusion all those
taking part were given
a talk by the police of-
ficer in charge and urg—
ed to put into practice
what they had learned
during the time they
were playing.

Traffic officers were
changed frequently to
give as many as possi-
ble a chance to take
part. Different setups
were tried. All traffic
would be directed by
officers, then the offic-
ers withdrawn and
lights installed. Next

TEACHING SAFETY BY MAKE-BELIEVE

"There is no doubt that the 'habit-forming' princi-
ple is of paramount importance when it comes to
educating children of the pre-school and elementary
school age in the various phases of traffic safety.
The practice followed in the United States whereby
safety education in the elementary school places its
chief emphasis on safe pedestrianism and the de-
velopment of proper attitudes toward safety has
been productive of very beneficial results. This is
amply demonstrated by the fact that child fatalities
in the 0-9 year age group have decreased twenty-
five per cent since I922l while all other age group
rates have increased. The consistent teaching of
safety psychology in the schoolroomI graphic pic-
turing of traffic dangers and how to avoid them' and
extracurricular activities such as School Boy Patrols
and Junior Safety Councils have stirred the chil-
dren's interest in safety and have been largely re-
sponsible for improved fatality rates." —Fetnand

Dufresne, Director of the Montreal Police Depart-
ment and Past President of the World Police.

The Setup

Streets eight feet
wide, boulevards ten
feet wide and blocks
fifteen feet square are
involved. On a grassy
surface plenty of dry
whiting is used to mark
the lines, and on dirt sur-
faces lines are painted
in the usual manner.
Lines should be six

.inches Wide and as

white as possible. Traf-
fic moves in all direc-
tions except where a
Street is marked with a

“One Way” sign. Chil-
dren wear signs on their

stop signs were added, and finally a combination
of all three was in force at one time. It was dis-
covered that many of the children were not at all
familiar with what traffic lights stood for, or with
the fact that it is dangerous to cross in the center
of a block or run out from behind a parked car.
When anyone made a mistake, the director, su-
pervisors, officers, lights or stop signs told the
offender about it. Second offenders were rushed
to the police station in the patrol car.

The big moment of each demonstration came
when two six-foot traffic cops from the Traffic
Squad solemnly took their places at busy inter-
sections and directed traffic.

As a result of these demonstrations the children
talked of the affair for days; they played “Traf-
fic” at home, and the press and police departments
are enthusiastic
about carrying it on
next summer.

Many things
were learned in the
three demonstra-
tions conducted.
The streets must
be narrow and the
number of blocks
limited so that the
area covered by
streets be suffi—
ciently small so
that those in charge

may easily observe
mistakes.

X "' Far/{Kc 0/53:ch

 

chests designating what type of car they represent.
The outer white line enclosing the six blocks rep-
resents the boundary of the area where traffic may
go, and traffic going into a street made by this
boundary must turn either right or left. With
smaller groups a four block setup should be suf-
ficient. Traffic lights are children with colored
cardboards, red and green. Lights change on
whistle signals given by the director.

Seven hundred and fifty individuals took part
in the three demonstrations and there were 1,500
spectators. The cost for cardboard and whiting
was $4.00—surely a small cost for the lesson
taught.

“There is a natural relationship between play-
grounds and safety. A playground is a place not
merely for more
play but for better
play—and in our
crowded cities bet-
ter play must mean
safer play. A safe
playground should
be a place for the
better adventure
that has been made
possible by safety,
a better adventure,
.for example, than
dodging traffic on a

crowded thorough-

fare.”—Albert W.
Whitney.

The Dimond Athletic Club

LMOST ANYTHING worth
A while has “a reason for
being,” and the Dimond
Athletic Club’s reason for ex-
istence was the presence of “Old Man Depres-
sion” who stalked through our midst about live
years ago. Money was scarce, and people were
greatly in need of good wholesome recreation.
And so in August, 1933, a community gymnasium
class for women was started. The class was to be
free, an important factor at that time. The Oak-
land Board of Education cooperated with us by
giving the use of a school auditorium one evening
a week. The class was started by two women in
the community who had no real training for the
work but who did have the desire to promote
good fellowship in their neighborhood. The first
night thirty-two women, most of them mothers,
attended and joined in the fun.
The response of the community was greater
than had been anticipated, and the leaders soon

realized they must have assistance. So they called‘

on the Oakland Recreation Department and told
of their need. The Recreation Department was
then, as it always has been, ready and willing to
cooperate, and in a short time a free class in gym-
nasium leadership was sponsored by the Depart-
ment at the local recreation center. Several mem-
bers of the class attended and were given instruc-
tion in marching, games, and the many other ac-
tivities which help make up a balanced recreation
program.

The routine program of the evening was gone
over each week by the two leaders before it was
presented to the class. They learned just how
much of each activity the members were prepared
to participate in. The program included marching,
games, folk dancing, exercises, community sing-
ing, and volley ball.

An award system for per-
fect attendance was started,
and a small felt emblem was
given to a member who had
been present at each meeting
for six months. This system
proved that adults, as well as
children, enjoy working for
an award, and at this time we
have two members who have

By JUNE E. KISTNER
Supervisor and Publicity Director

OaklandI California

There are clubs and clubs! ln the
October issue of Recreation we pub-
lished an article on the Homemak-
ers Clubs—the clubs for women spon-
sored by the LansingI Michigan. Rec-
reation Department. This month we
offer you a type of recreation club
for women primarily athletic in its
nature. though many other activi-
ties are included in the program.

attended the class every meet-
ing night since the class was or-
ganized five years ago. These
two were presented with a small
gold numeral “5,” to be attached to the Dimond
Athletic Club pin which all members are privi—
leged to wear.

It was decided that beginning with the fall
semester, in 1936, the class would be managed by
a board of directors, each director to have charge
of a separate activity. These directors meet each
month and handle the routine business of the
class. We started with eight directors—*a director-
in-chief who took charge of marching; a super-
visor who presented the business to the class,
called the roll, wrote publicity and managed the
games; a treasurer; a director of music, a director
of exercise, a director of dancing, a volley ball
director, and a sunshine director. Later two more
were added——a secretary and a pianist. Thus the
responsibility of keeping a growing organization
running smoothly was gradually distributed. At
this time, too, a new uniform was adopted consist-
ing of gold blouses, royal blue shorts, blue ank-
lets and white tennis shoes.

After the director system had been in effect for
one year, we decided to give more people an op-
portunity to help so each director appointed an
assistant to aid her. At the present time we have
many sub-committees at work, as we have found
that people like to be doing things, and the surest
way to keep them happy is to keep them busy.

Beside our routine gymnasium work we have
special nights and parties. Sometimes they are
costume affairs; sometimes the regular uniform is
worn. Stunts are presented by members, and
there are special games and dances. Refreshments
are served, with the table decorations carrying
out the theme of the evening.

We have had competitive
volley ball with other gymna-
sium groups from time to
time, but we find that the spirit
of competition is likely to over-
shadow the spirit of good fel-
lowship, so we do not indulge
in outside games very often.
We do, however, have inter-

(Continued on page 587)
575

What Kind of Leadership?

u E DON’T need profes—
W sors of ballistics to
teach the average
(New York) boy how to play
baseball; instructors of me-
chanical engineering to con-
duct classes in top spinning;
or associate professors of
mathematics to apply the prin-
ciples of plane geometry to
show playground children how
to shoot marbles. Our supervisors, therefore, find
their principal duty lies in seeing that the games
and exercise of the children are conducted in a
fair and orderly manner. I have found no diffi-
culty in obtaining the services of a high type of
personnel for just this purpose from the play—
ground, directors’ list established by the Municipal
Civil Service Commission. The major purpose to
be served (by a recreational program) is to give
healthy children adequate opportunities for the
development of their bodies in proper sur—
roundings.”

These words portray an attitude toward the use
of qualified leadership on the playgrounds of a
large city. In contrast we add the words of a
superintendent of recreation in a smaller city,
whose years of experience and leadership have
contributed greatly to the enrichment of the life
of that city.

“A play leader who perfunctorily carries on
activities and guards his playground against physi—
cal mishap has a job. He who adds skill and
technique to these duties creates a profession, but
he who crowns his profession with consecration
and devotion performs a mission, and the chil—
dren, youths and adults who come to him for play
and sport carry away deeper values and greater
riches than the mere memory of a happy day, and
the community which has instrusted to him the

leisure hours of its citizens
shall call him blessed.”

some of the most experienced
recreation superintendents in
the county in an effort to set
up standards of selection,
training and experience of
recreation personnel, states:

576

"society can afford the trained lead-
ership and facilities needed for ef-
fective recreational activities. It can
afford the socialized educational
programs the times require. It can
afford the laughter of little children.
the guidance of youth for purposeful
living. and the extension of educa-
tional advantages to adults. It can
afford a renaissance of recreation
and education."—Agnes Samuelson.

. "The recreational agencies of the com-
A committee made up of munity offer not foodl but leadership.
The cost of this service is small in pro-
portion to the number of people it
reaches. but it is definite. nevertheless.
We need more and better leadership
if we are to save .the spirits as well as
the bodies of our people from stunt-
ing and disease."—Mary C. Burnett.

“The object for which com-
munity recreation work is con-
ducted and the ideals of the
profession of recreation lead-
ers demand high standards of
personal character, devotion to
the work and belief in the high
calling of the profession. The
fact that a large part of the
work is conducted on behalf
of children necessitates the
exercise of the greatest care in the selection of
those who are to do the work.”

Perhaps the most discerning analysis of play-
ground leadership was made by two groups of
children, one in Chicago and the other in New
York. These children, in schools, settlements, and
recreation areas were asked what qualities they
most liked in their leaders. The two outstanding
requirements named by these children were kind-
ness and a knowledge of activities, especially
games, and skill in performing and teaching them.

It is significant that kindness was ranked first
by both groups, and that a knowledge of games
with ability to teach them was second! Neither
of these qualities would necessarily be required
by the first executive quoted. Kindness, the
supreme qualification, cannot be tested by a civil
service examination, and “the lists” might' fail,
therefore, to include persons with that qualifica-
tion most desired by the children. Their desire
for leaders who can teach games would seem to
refute the arguments that “the average boy does
not need to be taught how to play baseball and
that We do not need instructors in mechanical en*
gineering to conduct classes in top spinning!”

We know full well that children want to play,
that most children need no urging. Wide experi-
ence has also clearly shown that with skilled play
leadership a much larger number of children will

make Use of a given area and
«enjoy themselves more fully.
Various age groups are guid—'
.ed in activities suitable to
*their age. The more back-r
ward "children are encouraged-
‘to comefdrward and with’
'careful. guidance take" a no’r:
(Continued on page 588)

 

Horses Preferred!

T THE TIME of the organi-
A zation of the Wyoming
Valley Equestrian Club in
June, 1933, Wilkes-Barre, Penn-
sylvania, and the surrounding towns boasted of
only two riding academies. As the interest in
horseback riding stimulated by the activities of
the Equestrian Club grew, new facilities became
more numerous.

From the very beginning the group has gov-
erned itself under regulations and by-laws ap-
proved by the Wyoming Valley Playground and
Recreation Association. Miss Iva Reynolds, staff
member of the association, has served continu—
ously on the board of directors since the group
was created, and through her
contact is maintained with the
parent organization. The club
has steadfastly clung to its
original purpose with the re-
sult that today it is recog-
nized as a community asset,
offering adults, both young
and old, an opportunity to
participate in a healthful out-
door activity.

The. club is now incorpor-
ated and its destinies are
guided by the usual presi-
dent, secretary and other club officers, and by a
board of directors elected by the club. The board
outlines a general yearly plan and program, and
the executive officers arrange the details involved
in putting the program into effect. Membership is
representative of widely diversihed interests. and
school teachers, college students, and business and
professional men and women are to be found on
the roster.

Originally onl’y weekly horseback rides were
undertaken, but as interest and ability developed
more varied features were initiated. Overnight
eighty mile rides, introduced in 1935, have become
a much enjoyed part of each year's program. Con-
stant application and practice have brought a num-
ber of the members to a point where they are able
to compete in local amateur horse shows. At first
competition was limited to horsemanship classes but
later several members participated in hunting and
jumping events. The many prizes and ribbons

By EDWARD L. JOHNSON
President

Wyoming Valley Equestrian Club

With the simple purpose of encouraging
interest in equitation and stimulating
sociability among those desiring to par-
ticipate in the sport' the Wyoming Val-
ley Equestrian Club was organized more
than four years ago under the auspices
of the Wyoming Valley Playground and
Recreation Association. In the May I937
issue of Recreation there appeared a
brief statement regarding the activities
of the clubI but since that date there have
been so many developments it has seemed
desirable to publish' another statement.

which adorn the trophy room of
the club house belonging to the
group attest to the members’
success and ability.

In 1937 the club obtained a long-term lease on
a house located on a bluff overlooking the up—to-
date riding ring of the Harvey’s Lake Riding
Academy, and since that time the members have
worked together to furnish and equip the site as a
club house. Many splendid events have been en-
joyed here. Breakfast rides and moonlight rides
have wound up at the club house where riders and
their friends enjoy either a breakfast or supper
as the occasion warrants.

Through the courtesy of State Senator Andrew
J. Sordoni, the club has been
given permission to use his
private bridle paths and the
auxiliary state game preserves
which he maintains at Alder-
5011. This natural habitat of
Pennsylvania wild life fur-
nishes some of the best trails
available in the country. Sev-
eral “drag and paper” hunts
have been held and overnight
camping trips enjoyed.

During the course of a year
the club sponsors four social
functions, usually dances, and these are always
well attended by members and friends. While the
club is an adult organization, it assists juvenile
activity by making its facilities available to chil—
dren at certain times during the week. Several in-
terested members give instruction to the children
of local high school riding clubs and take them on
rides.

At one time the club had both a men’s and
girls’ polo team, but the inability to secure mounts
has to a great extent handicapped this activity. A
few members have, however, purchased mounts
and as time goes on others are looking forward

to acquiring private mounts. Polo will then be

resumed.

This year the club sent fifteen members to the
opening of the national horse show in New York
City where they gathered the latest ideas and
practices available to prepare them for the annual

(Continued on page 588)
577

You Asked for It!

Question: A few people in our small town in
Northern Michigan are deeply concerned over the
effects of a long winter’s idleness on many of our
community residents. As a means of combating it,
and also of adding to the incomes of many, we
have discussed the possibility of home industries.
Attractive articles made in local homes would have
an excellent market during the summer since
there are many resorts in this region.

We feel that at first it would be best to keep to
crafts where the initial cash outlay is modest.
We do feel, however, that the articles made should
be attractive and valuable. I feel sure of being
able to get from local people and a few interested
summer residents enough money to finance a
modest beginning and the salary of a technical
adviser, if that would be the way to go about it.
There are two quite skillful woodworkers in town
and several other people who, with some technical
training, would make good leaders. Our sense of
the need of this work is much greater than our
knowledge of how it should be undertaken.

Any advice and help you can give from your
own experience in developing such projects would
be most welcome.

Answer: Many of the recommendations that I
make in this letter are due to my eXperiences in
New Hampshire Where I spent a number of years
in the organization of a state-wide craft program.

I agree with your plan of starting in a modest
way. I would suggest that at the beginning your
craft activities be limited to simple woodwork for
men, including the making of benches, trays, small
tables, and similar useful articles which would be
of practical use in the summer homes of people
vacationing in your community. Today there is
also a keen interest in pine and maple furniture.
Women’s craft activities might at first be limited
to needlework and weaving. They could make
inexpensive articles, such as attractively styled
table squares, aprons, guest towels and luncheon
sets. In both woodwork and weaving there should
be special emphasis on proper style and color so
that the articles for sale will fit into the home set-
tings of the summer residents. During the first
year of the New Hampshire program the making
of inexpensive articles that could be sold from
$1.00 to $2.50 was stressed.

578

The method followed in the organization of arts
and crafts centers in the small towns in New
Hampshire may interest you. First of all, contact
was made with a few of the leading civic-minded
people of the community in order to get their
wholehearted support of the project; secondly, a
meeting of the townspeople was called at which
time handcraft opportunities, programs and or-
ganizations were presented. Organization of the
group and the development of a program of pro-
duction and marketing resulted. In the third
place, a local exhibition and meeting was planned
with a few outstanding craft articles brought in
from another locality for display purposes. For
example, one community was interested in the
making of fine hooked rugs. At an exhibit of local
work there were on display a few exceptionally
beautiful rugs from the collection of a gentleman
living in a near-by city. Local people became aware
of the fact that the collector’s rugs were old, more
beautiful, more serviceable and better made than
those exhibited by themselves.

Learning of the slowly increasing market for
the finely hooked rug, they have been willing to
hook by the old method, although it is slower.
People were discouraged from making rugs if
they were not willing to work with creative and
original patterns and hook closely and firmly. It
has been found that the same thing is true of
weaving, needle and other handcraft. We can-
not compete with a machine-made article so must
therefore work completely from the point of view
of handwork and fine craftsmanship. Articles
pr0per1y styled and designed to meet a practical
and useful need backed up by good design and
color do have a ready sale.

At this meeting, those interested in forming
craft groups were brought together, each select-
ing a temporary leader and at the same time mak-
ing plans for the next gathering. Someone was
invited to be present at the next meeting to speak
on a phase of craft work that would be of interest
to the group. A nominating committee was ap-
pointed and a general organization plan agreed
upon. The organization usually consisted of presi-
dent, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and the
following committee chairmen: education, mar-

(Continued on page 588)

 

WORLD AT PLAY

SNOW’ modeling,

also known as Snow
Sculpture, was con-
ducted at twenty-one
playgrounds, divided into five districts and
judged on originality, design and performance.
This activity was conducted as a regular part
of the program, but during St. Paul Carnival
week special stress was laid on exhibits in the
downtown area. Competition was entered in—
to not only by the playground groups but by
many of the neighborhood houses and com-
munity chest agencies. This workmanship of
this exhibit was commended very highly by
the judges, who were appointed by the Carni-
val Association. A total of 720 children took
part; 18,000 witnessed the exhibits.

Snow Modeling in
St. Paul

READING, Penn—

Children’s Theater for

Readmg’ Pa' children’s ’cheater

sponsored by the
Public Recreation Department. Meetings are
being held each Saturday morning in the
Southern Junior High School, which is making
its auditorium and stage facilities available to
the group. Instruction in making stage scenery
and handling stage lighting is a part of the
course. Such materials as still movies, panto-
mimes, imitations and story dramatizations
will be used. The first project of the children’s

theater was a presentation for the community

Christmas party given each year at City Hall.‘

THE Guild Regional
Branch Library in

Chicago, according
to an article in the
American Library Association Bulletin, indi-
cates that 60% of its patrons are adult;
62% of them are employed. The users are
rated in the following order: housewives,
clerical workers; professional service; manu-
facturing and mechanical industries; trade,
domestic and personal service; transportation
and communication; agriculture and forestry.

Who Uses the
Library?

sylvania, is to have a.

THE October, 1938,
issue of “Safe—T-
Gram” published by
the Greater Spring-
field Safety Council, Springfield, Massachu-
setts, states that the past summer was one of
the most active and effective in recreational
safety ever had in Hampden County. The
Council was able to carry on a program which
included the issuing of posters and safety ma-
terial, the registration of bicycles, storytelling,
contests in poster making, and the writing of
essays on safety and radio programs. In
Springfield, in cooperation with Arthur Gard-
ner, Director of Recreation, and Robert
Clement, WPA Supervisor of Recreation, the
Council was successful in having a member of
WPA staff appointed as safety supervisor for
all the playgrounds.

For Safety in
Recreation

THE Airport Center
at Akron, Ohio, with
shelter house, fire-
places, sled and to-
boggan rental service, food service and recrea-
tion facilities, last winter was a veritable “St.
Moritz” surrounded by the ski jump, ski run,
toboggan slide and sled hill. A registry kept
at the shelter showed visitors from twelve
states.

Sledding and Skiing
in Akron

THE Poundridge
Reservation, a 4,000-
acre public camping
ground and recrea-
tion area established by the VVestchester
County, New York, Park Commission in 1925,
was rededicated on October 15th as the “Ward
Poundridge Reservation in memory of William
L. Ward, who did so much for the county’s
system of public parks and parkways. Among
the speakers at the dedication were Gerard
Swope, Chairman of the William L. \Vard
Memorial Committee; Robert Moses, Park
Commissioner, New York City; William F.
Bleakley, former Justice of the Supreme Court
and William J. Wallin, President of the \Ves't-
chester Park Commission.

Honoring the Memory
of William L. Ward

579

580 WORLD AT PLAY

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME SET
MALABLE CAST IRON - WHITE PLATED

  
   
 
    
       
 
 
    

ONE SET CONSISTS OF 4- PUSH CUES and Will
6 DISC ( 3 A's and 3 5'5) °u+las+
2 or 3

PBICE i|2.°° per set , Delivered

CURVED FRONT GIVES
POSITIVE CONTROL IN
SHOOTING THE Disc.

wooden sets

(URVED BACK FOR
THE PURPOSE or
PLACING THE. DISC
ON STARTING LINE.

BRASS PIVOT.

 
 

FATENTII
AND MFG.-

CHAS. H.WILSON Oakland,Calif.

I4l7 - 80th. Ave.

 

 

A Club for Young F ishermen—Each Thurs-
day night a group of young fishing enthusiasts
known as the Tackle Busters Club, meets at
the Belmont Recreation Center in Long Beach,
California. There are about fifty-nine members
in this club who, in addition to their weekly
meetings, go on fishing trips on Fridays.
Interest is added to many such meetings by
the presence of state, county or municipal
ofhcials who give talks regarding fish and
game regulations. Occasionally an experienced
deep sea fisherman relates some of his inter-
esting tales. The Long Beach Fly and Bait
Casting Club assists the Recreation Commis-
sion in promoting the activities of the club.

A County Arts and Crafts Program—The
Westchester Workshop, fostered by the West-
chester County, New York, Recreation Com-
mission, has entered its ninth year of service.
The 1938—39 program which began on Septem—
ber 19th, shows a variety of new or advanced
courses that will greatly broaden the scope of
the workshop’s usefulness. These include the
layman’s music course designed to induct the
non-musical, the amateur and even the pro-
fessional into the joy of listening to music
through a series of twenty demonstration
lectures. New courses have also been intro-
duced in French and international relations.
Significant progress in the teaching of the fine
arts and the several crafts is reflected in the
steadily growing enrolment in sometwenty-two
individual courses now offered by the work-
shop. A new class in commercial art and car-
tooning has been added to the art program.
Mural painting also makes its bow this year.
Handicrafts taught at the workshop include

basketry, dressmaking, metal art and jewelry,
weaving and woodworking. A course in
dramatics for children offers training to three
age groups, six to sixteen inclusive, who will
stage and produce such plays as “The Snow
Queen” and “The House of Heart’s Desire.”

City Employees’ Recreational Activities—
Four major recreational activities were par-
ticipated in by the official city family of five
hundred of Berkeley, California, during the
fiscal year. The activities included a Hal-
lowe’en party, a Christmas party, a picnic and
a camp opening.

The Seemen—The Seemen of the North End
Union of Boston is a group of approximately
sixty boys between the ages of fifteen and
eighteen years, who seek “to break down group
barriers and club differences, and attempts to
develop a cooperative and sympathetic spirit
in the minds of the members and to stimulate
thought and action on personal confiicts and
community needs.” The great majority of boys
are Italians. A full-time worker is employed
who is assisted by a number of part-time
workers.

The Seemen, who meet every other Friday
night, have their own elected officers and con—
duct the meetings themselves. They secure
competent speakers for monthly meetings on
subjects associated with their objectives such
as information on safety, fire and police pro-
cedure, law and court machinery, prisons and
delinquency, and recreation including arts and
crafts, sciences, forums and social programs.
Each season they have one major objective.
This year leisure and hobbies are prominent in
the program. During the summer the group
held 250 “boy nights” at a nearby overnight
camp.

Boys Win Doll Contest—“Sad-faced Sweetie-
Pie,” orphan doll adopted by the Rinky-Dinks
Boys Club of New York City, brought first
honors to her benefactors in a raggedy doll
contest at the Roosevelt Street Playground
last summer. Defying anyone to call them
sissies, the Rinky-Dinks (all seven of them),
after reconditioning the broken, unsightly doll
which they had found across the street from
their headquarters, and entering her in the
contest, were jubilant when the judges an-

(-

 

WORLD AT PLAY ' 581

nounced that ,“Sweetie—Pie” had won. The
girls, slightly disconcerted at such masculine
intrusion, had to content themselves with
mama-doll and prettiest-doll prizes. The oc-
casion was part of the fourth anniversary pro-
gram of the 83 Roosevelt Street Playground,
where five hundred children from the East Side
neighborhood were entertained with music,
songs, dances, and contests. The playground
was vividly decorated with gold, silver, and
purple bunting.

Helping to Build Their Own F acilities—The
1938 senior class of the Watertown, South
Dakota High School, contributed $125 toward
the cost of tennis courts to be constructed at
N orthside Park. The Park Board is planning
to start the development of the Northside area
in the near future. ‘

Recreation Program Is Popular at Ann
Arbor—VVhen figures on ,the attendance at
parks and playgrounds were released recently
in Ann Arbor, it was found that approximately
I67,622 persons had made use of park or play.-
ground facilities, or had participated in super-
vised games. More attention is being given to
the needs of adults in Ann Arbor’s recreation
program, as well as to the fact that some sort
of activity is desirable for children during the
summer. The already extensive program
which the Ann Arbor Recreation Department
boasts will be expanded to include more ade-
quate facilities for winter recreation.

Regarding PersOnnel—Of outstanding im-
portance in a report of the Board of Play—
ground Directors in Oakland, California, was
the completion of the Civil Service Board’s
survey of the personnel department. In line
with its findings, new job titles, more de-
scriptive of the work being done, were
adopted; new salary scales better correlating
the compensation within the department and
putting it on a comparable basis with the rest
of the city personnel were set up and all part-
time positions under the jurisdiction of the de-
partment became subject to Civil Service
procedure.

Recreational Progress in Akron, Ohio—Dur-
ing the past summer the Recreation Commis-

    
 
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
  

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

     
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

.Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

Many Styles of Horseshoes

Official Courts 0 Stakes

Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
Rule Books ° Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

sion of Akron, Ohio, employed 41 summer
playground workers paid by the Board of
Education. In addition, six women students at
the University of Akron worked three hours
a day on special activities, and I41 VVPA and.
twelve NYA workers aided in the program.
Twenty-one playgrounds and 48 tennis courts,
six of which were lighted, were maintained.
An interesting development has been the or-
ganization of four neighborhood associations
formed to work with the Recreation Commis-
sion, particularly on the problem of securing
facilities. One of them conducted a camp to
help raise the sponsors’ share in a PWA
swimming pool. They all conducted special
Fourth of July and Hallowe’en programs. The
associations are made up of representatives of
such organizations as churches, parent-teacher
associations, and boards of trade. In 'one asso-
ciation forty organizations are represented.

A Puppetry Institute—On November-IIth
and I2th, the first New England Puppetry In-
stitute was held under the sponsorship of

582 PVORLD A T PLA Y

The Book of Festivals

Dorothy Gladys Spicer
O

O A year-round reference on the festi-

vals and folkways of thirty-five nation-

alities represented in the United States.
The story of the calendar is included,
and a complete bibliography of festival

literature. Delightful “reading.

$3.00

THE WOMANS PRESS

600 LEXINGTON AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

Curry, Boston’s College of Expression. The
program included a puppet clinic, demonstra-
tions on various phases of puppetry, the presen-
tation of plays, lectures and discussions.

Outings for Playground Children—Each of
the playgrounds in Steubenville, Ohio, last
summer enjoyed a weekly visit to local indus-
tries and other places of interest. Over 2,000
children made 95 such trips during the course
of the season. A civic project was introduced
through which the children carried on a cam-
paign for playground officers involving speech
making, election parades, the election and in—
stallation of candidates, and visits to City Hall
and the court house. The follow—up program
included the witnessing of an actual case tried
in the municipal court and playground trials

in which offenders were brought before the
court of justice.

A Picnic Shelter for Fritz Memorial Park—
A new picnic shelter constructed from the
materials which originally formed the home of
the late Michael J. Fritz has been completed in

the Fritz Memorial Park, Ann Arbor, Michi-
gan. The shelter is built with an outdoor fire—

place at either end and is equipped with picnic
tables.

Fritz Memorial Park is the former Schutzen—
bund Park, an historic landmark famous as the
scene of German gatherings and celebrations.
It was given to the city in 1936 by Mrs. Elsa
Fritz DeFries and John C. Fritz, niece and
nephew of Michael J. Fritz. The park consists
of a wooded area of five acres. The gift carried
with it the provision that the Fritz homestead
be carefully razed and the material used for a
shelter. Ornamental trees and shrubberies at
the Fritz homestead were a part of the gift.
Michael J. Fritz was a member of the Board of
Park Commissioners for twenty years and was
instrumental in obtaining a center tract of
land vital to the development of West Park.

A Mexican Party—The new Century Com-
munity House of Oakland, which is the center
of a great deal of Mexican activity, celebrated
Mexican Independence Day, staged the typical
Mexican pinata party at Christmas, and a
special Mothers’ Day Fiesta for the Mexican
colony. Other social parties and club activities
among colored groups and Slovonians also
played an important part in this center’s
program.

A Festival of Music and Dance—An inter-
esting festival of music and dance was pro—
duced by the Indian Federation of America in
the Sculpture Court in the Brooklyn Museum
on American Indian Day, September 24. The
program consisted of presentation of the tribes,
call of the dances, storm dance, squaw dance,
boot dance, feather dance, drumming, blanket
sign language, Iroquois war dance, papoose
dance, corn dance, hunters dance, etc., etc. The
names of performers were interesting—Chief
Blowsnake and Swift Eagle, Bright Eyes,
Princess Chickadee, Dave Little Bear, Chief
Little Moose and others.

Recent Children’s Books—The American
Library Association, Chicago, Illinois, has
issued a circular listing thirty-one noteworthy
books of the year, Which are recommended for
children’s reading. They were selected from
hundreds of 1938 titles carefully examined by

WORLD A T PLA Y 583

 

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL

PORTABLE

with TOUCH CONTROL

    

Yes, you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash

or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY, with initial

down payment. See your Royal Portable dealer
or mail coupon today for information.

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY. Inc.

Dept. BNR 139

2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

Elizabeth A. Groves, assistant in charge of
children’s books on the staff of the American
Library Association’s Booklist. Copies of this
circular may be secured from the American
Library Association, Chicago (100 copies,
$1.00; 500, $3.00; 1,000, $5.00).

Physical Training in English Villages—The
National Fitness Council for England and
Wales has announced that it is prepared to
recommend grants toward the erection and
equipment of village halls in order to en—
courage their use for physical training. This
is undertaken under the Physical Training and
Recreation Act of 1937.

A Program of Lecture-Discussions—VVest—
chester County has taken a further step in the
direction of making democracy work by estab—
lishing a series of lecture-discussions at the
County Center, White Plains, under the aus—
pices of the Westchester WorkshOp, a depart-
ment of the County’s Recreation Commission.
The course on International Relations is to be

conducted by Nathaniel Peffer, an interna-
tional writer of note. The discussions will be
modeled on the New England Town Meeting,
that is, the audience participating in the dis—
cussion that follows the formal talk. The pro-
gram at the Center will be kept professional
and controversial, no conclusions being drawn
and no indoctrinations being intended.

A more formal part of the program entitled
“Government” will be a general survey course
covering the more important factors of inter-
national relations.

A Monthly Golf Ticket—Because of the de-
mand on the part of the public for a monthly
playing ticket which included Saturdays as
well as weekdays, Oakland has set up a $3.00
monthly ticket good every day except Sundays
and holidays.

American Camping Association to Meet—
The sixteenth annual convention of the American
Camping Association will be held at St. Louis,

584 WORLD AT PLAY

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming poolsin any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. efc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

Missouri, February 2-4. The Jefferson Hotel will
be headquarters for the convention. The theme
will be “Camping Problems Today.” On the first
day of the conference problems having to do with
health, safety and sanitation will be discussed; on
the second day problems relating to the camper
will be in the foreground, and on the final day
problems of personnel and administration will be
taken up. Further information may be secured
from Karl G. Johanboeke, Chairman, Convention

Publicity Committee, at 613 Locust Street, St.
Louis.

National Drama Week—February 5th to 12th,
1939 is being observed as the Nineteenth National
Drama Week. It has been suggested that en-
couragement and support be given to the produc-
tion of plays by local groups; that there be dis-
plays of costumes and photographs in connection
with school libraries, clubs and shops; that where
possible there be radio announcements and produc-
tion of well-known plays, lectures, discussion of
current plays, editorials and special announce-

ments in daily papers and in the bulletins of
libraries.

At Penderlea Homesteads—-At Penderlea
Homesteads, one of the Farm Security Admin-
istration’s projects at Raleigh, North Carolina,
a new school has been erected which is planned
to meet the recreational needs of the com-
munity. The building contains a separate
auditorium equipped for visual education,
music, arts and crafts; a gymnasium for
athletics and various forms of recreation, a
social building for home economics and clubs;
a cooperative community store, an agricultural
and woodworking shop for vocational work,
and a 50-acre farm to be used in connection
with the administrative building for the office
force in charge of the administration of the
community. In addition, there is a well equip-
ped teacherage for the teachers in the school.
It is planned to utilize all the opportunities
and possibilities available in and around this
center for broad educational purposes. The
project employs a full-time recreation super-
visor who works with the young people of the
schools and with the adults of the community.

Recreation and Crime
(Continued from page 551)

program on a city-wide scale, has undoubtedly
acted as a preventive cause.”

Public recreation in Elizabeth is responsible in
a large measure for this notable decrease in juve-
nile delinquency. Incidentally, every juvenile de-
linquent who is placed on probation in the Union
County Juvenile Court must attend a recreation
group. This has materially reduced probation vio—
lations and checked delinquencies. The City of
Elizabeth today has one of the finest public recre-
ation systems in New Jersey and officials else-
where would do well to study it.

Royal Games in the Land of
Loch Lomond

(Continued from page 565)

together to show their skill in their many varied
ways under the unifying presence of the “Crown,”
and where many different individual aspects of
Scottish life and history were shown. Welcomed
with the true Highland hospitality to people from
all over the world, the Exhibition provided inter-
est and entertainment for as many different visit—
ors as possible, producing a really constructive
work in which the arts of peace was the main
theme, hoping that on the ancient soil of Scotland

 

HINTS FOR THE HIKER! 585

a contribution to the friendliness and peace of the
world could be made. Buildings were painted the
gayest and brightest of colors, magnificent foun-
tains danced and sparkled, flood-lit by night in a
hundred shimmering colors, and the avenues were
lined and terraced with flowers.

Years roll on, but Braemar remains the same,
the Mecca of loyal subjects of the Crown, the
rallying ground of sportsmen and of great ath-
letes. When the spirit wanes on Deeside, then,
and then only, will the glory of Scotland’s great
traditions be in danger of fading away into a

sadly forgotten past.

N OTE: Information for this article has been taken from
The Scottish Annual and Boole of the Braemar Gather-
ing, printed and published by the Herald Press, Arbroath,
Scotland.

Hints for the Hiker!

(Continued from page 566)

painted over all, but particularly at the seams
with a water-proofing liquid, procurable for a
small sum at any shoe dealer’s. Such treat-
ment will not only prevent wet feet in rainy
weather and in crossing swampy ground or
over slushy trails, but will also soften the
leather, moulding them better to the feet and
preserving them against cutting on sharp
rocks, etc. Never wear silk stockings or socks.
Heavy wool socks or stockings will not only
cushion the feet, but will also prevent undue
chafing by absorption of excess perspiration
or water.

Top clothing should be sturdy and com—
fortable. Many girls wear shorts in‘ hot
weather, but these are little protection against
insects and brambles. The majority of ex-
perienced women hikers wear sturdy slacks,
jodphurs, ski—trousers or riding breeches. Be
certain, however, that such garments are not
too tight and do not chafe the skin. Most men
wear washable slacks in hot weather and heavy
trousers or hunting breeches in the winter
time. Suede or leather jackets are best in
winter because of their warmth, snugness and
imperviousness to wind and brambles. A wool
sweat-shirt or water-proof jacket should be
carried in all weather against possible rain or
sudden changes in temperature.

It is advisable to procure a small weather-
proof haversack or rucksack, costing about
$100—$200, which will permit carrying of
extra clothing, lunches, cameras and extra

     
   
       
       
     

Wh y They Subscribe.I

What School Activities brought to its
readers the past year for only $2.00!

AQlIVLlles

47 articles on Ad-
ministration and

Supervision of Ex-
tra-Curricular Ac-
, tivities

 2| articles on School
' Assemblies

             
         
       
     
       
     
       
         
       
     
   
   
   
     
   
     
     
     
 

5(sz rx 3’ cm:- S'm no $an

 I if I4 articles on
‘   Athletics

m ¢mmm$moumm
“hm-an?» :0 x- 521-me

13:331.”... I  56 articles on Clubs

human-«o: :: 0
mgrmwwwlm y I I  

a “mags W)

.............. . u . Commencement
ngm?x “wot .' _ .t

33mins; I s. 7 articles on Debate
WVm‘u’Mw

i2?..;.m..l..e.sl - 3 I3 articles on

ewm)mnsw I ‘l I
girwymmamnmwm  Drama+lcs

Th 9 ohm Since WA

mm .  7 articles on Fi-
nancing Activities

6 articles on Home

 

Rooms
SChOOl Activities 7 articles on Music
in their school 20 articles on
Parties

means . u . 23 F I P
ar lc es on ro-
For the PRINCIPAL gram Material
School and community in- 3 amcles on School
terest —- attention that is
always given to things
going on.

School interpretation—dem-
onstration of what' the
school is doing. exhibi-
tion and explanation oi
the work that justifies the
modern school.

School spirit. harmony with-
in and among , school
groups. school loyalty
and goodwill.

For the TEACHER

Material for assembly and
community programs.
Practical ideas and sugges-

tions for clubs and home “mes “1e 605+ would

rooms. _ have brought to
Plans for parties. banquets, ihemI

and socials. Wm, B na+ionally

For the STUDENT prominent editorial

Always an educative some- and adVlSOTY board—

thing-to—do. — SC H 00 I. AC-

A wholesome good time... TIVITISS speaks with
a happy eventful school authorlty pn matters
life, of great Importance

A rich experience in genu- 1‘0 '3” schools. .
ine democratic living. Only $2.00 per year

Publications

3 articles on School
Spirit

I2 articles on Stu-
dent Government

It) articles on Mis-
cellaneous Ac-
tivities

Also scores of pithy

Editorials. News

Items. Book Reviews.
etc.

    
         
     
       
       
       
     
   
         
     
       
     
         
       
       
     
     
       
     
 
 
     
   
 

(Completely indexed
in Education Index)

This is more usable
material than sev-
eral books at many

  

Subscribe NOW to

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES MAGAZINE

College Hill
Topeka Kansas

"The Magazine with a Big Place in Every School"

586

BREATIVE
' PBDJEETS

.5[HUBEE
MATERIAL

HELPFUL
ID EA_5

The JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES magazine
supplies the creative project material needed
to meet the requirements of present day
methods of teaChing. Each” issue is brimful of
full-page project illustrations, new and up-to-
date material, creative project ideas, articles

by teachers, editorials, book reviews, etc.

It not only brings you interesting, concise
ideas and plans, but it supplies timely, reli-
able, usable source material———things to cut,
construct and color —that which closely cor-

relates with classroom requirements.

Junior Arts & Activities

740 RUSH STREET
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

One year $2.00 Two years $3.00

 

PLAY NIGHTS OR' CIRCUS—w—WHI'CH?

equipment without burdening the hands or
arms, which should be left free. Odds and ends,
which will fit into the pack and which may
prove handy, include iirst-aid equipment such
as gauze bandage, iodine, cotton, adhesive tape
and foot powder; a small can opener; safety
pins; needle and thread; pencil and paper; a
pocket knife; cord; matches; and a light metal
cup. The rule to remember, however, is to
travel as light as possible, for each pound
grows ten times heavier on a long trek.

Lunches should include only easily digested
foods. Many experienced hikers carry only
such foods as fruits or fruit juices. either
fresh or canned, crackers and cheese, raisins,
dried fruit and pure chocolate. Hikers should
always guard against drinking copious quanti-
ties of water, which tend to tire one more
quickly without actually assuaging thirst. Far
better to carry a pack of gum, or chew on dried
fruit, or drink small quantities of fruit juice.

The rule of the trail is comradeship No
introductions are needed on a hike. Grumbling
or complaining is absolutely taboo, but this
rule is seldom violated because hikers are by
nature invariably the best of sports.

Play Nights or Circus—Which?
(Continued from page 569)

were in the crowds who watched the much “bal-
lyhooed” circus, but the purpose of these parties
was participation, and this purpose was achieved.
The sight of several hundred children playing at
one time on the green turf under bright lights had
an element of “exhibitionism” all its own and
seemed to- fill the void left by the omission of the
circus.

The cost of each play night was approximately
$5.00. This money represented the cost of the
electricity for lighting the football field used as
the play area. The cost of the circus each year
had totaled approximately $150, and having bud—
geted for a circus, it was a considerable saving to
have ten play nights at $50 to replace the circus.

The outstanding argument in favor of the play
night was the close relationship between the day
program of playground activities and the featured
nights of play. The transferring of certain cham-
pionships in special activities and the feeling of
anticipation which the play nights aroused were
of assistance to the continuity of the playground
program. The leaders found that assigning duties

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 587

to be performed on the play nights helped greatly
in training in child leadership.

Progress of the Recreational Study
(Continued from page 572)

ducted by means of state and WPA personnel in
a number of areas in Illinois, Iowa and Missouri
and throughout the state of Nebraska. Naturalist
programs have been conducted in the Indiana
state parks for a number of years. Several of the
state universities have assisted by conducting nat-
uralist training schools and providing naturalist
personnel in the state parks.

A Practical Demonstration. This past summer
the National Park Service initiated a recreational
program on the Federally owned Swift Creek
Recreational Demonstration Area near Richmond,
Virginia, for the purpose Iof demonstrating the
value of such a program on a large natural area.
A Recreational Council representing several com-
munities was organized as a non-profit corpora-
tion and assumed responsibility. for the organiza-
tion of the recreational program. It is also re—
sponsible for the operation of the revenue-pro;
ducing facilities, the profits from which will be
used to finance the program. Assistance in this
work is also being received from the Works
Progress Administration which is supplying fif-
teen recreation workers, including life guards, at
music leader, a dramatics and dancing leader, an
art and handcraft teacher, a pottery teacher, two
nature leaders, two bathhouse attendants and a
games person. A clearing house has been set up
in each community for scheduling events in the
area, and NYA workers were secured to com-
municate with organized groups in order to pre-
sent the opportunities for group outings.

The various items which have been diSCUSsed
briefly outline the scope and progress of the Rec-
reation Study. Although the study has not ad-
vanced to the point where definite conclusions
may be drawn, it does point the way toward cer-
tain trends and to the solution of certain prob-
lems in the park and recreation field, as well as
the deve10pment of certain planning techniques.

The Dimond Athletic Club

(Continued from page 575)

class competition which creates greater interest
and makes for better playing.

Last year, for the first time, we had “Open
house” night and invited our families and friends.
A hundred visitors came, and we demonstrated

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I

of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Recreation News, October 1938

(Chicago Park. District)
Employees Welfare

School Management, November 1938
NE“; _York Schools Use Ferryboats in Study of
1v1cs.

Child Study, November 1938
Family Life-Then and Now, by Sidonie Matsner
Gruenberg

Education Abstracts, October 1938

Measuring Achievement in Physical Education, by
Ruth B. Glasgow and Marion R. Broer.

New Directions in Physical Education for the Ado-
lescent Girl in High School and College, by Rosa-
lind Cassidy.

Coordination of Recreation Agencies,
by George Hjelte.

Personality Growth Through Athletics,
by Goodwin Watson.

Standards for the Selection of Persons to Be Trained
for Placement in Health and Physical Education,
by Elmer Bert Cottrell.

Recreation in Church and Community,

' by Warren T. Powell (Ed.) '
The Physical Education Director, by Jay B. Nash.
Tests and Measurements in Physical Education,

by John F. Bovard and Frederick W. Cozens.

The Camping Magazine, November 1938
‘What Method of Behavior Recording Do You Use?

by Melvin Dorsett

Childhood Education, November 1938
Guiding Children’s Social Development,
by Dorothea McCarthy '
(Section on the Importance of Play Materials)

Community, October-November 1938
The Greatest Athletic Event in the World,
by Sir Patrick Hannon, M.P.

Educational Dance, December 1938

Dancing and the Recreational Program,
by Lillian Powell

Youth Leaders Digest, December 1938
The Play Street Fails, by William M. Wener

PAMPHLETS

Camp Parker, Pembroke, Mass, Season 1938
Camp of the North 'End Union, 20 Parmenter St.,
Boston, Mass.

“What Price America?”

Outline of a series of twenty-six radio programs on
conservation, to be broadcast in 1939. United
States Department of the Interior, Division of In-
formation, Washington, D. C.

Persons Participating in Leisure-Time Activities by
Economic Status—Greater Cleveland
Prepared by Howard Whipple Green, Cleveland
Health Council, 1001 Huron Road. 1938.

Library Bulletin No. 9, October 1938

List of lantern slides available from the Recreation
Division Library, Chicago Park District.

588 WHAT KIND OF LEADERSHIP?

The Federal Government and Education '
Summary of findings and proposals of the Admsory
Committee on Education. Available from the Com-
mittee, i\'orth Interior Building, Washington, D.C.,
or from the Superintendent of Documents, Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. Price 10¢.

Report of the Mayor’s Advisory Board on Playgrounds
and Recreation, January 1, l937—July 1, 1938

Issued by the Mayor’s Advisory Board on Play—

grounds and Recreation, 638 Terminal Tower

Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

Annual Report, Recreation Commission

Highland Park, Michigan, May 1, 1937 to May 1, 1938

Short Courses in Colleges of Agriculture,
by E. L. Kirkpatrick

Report of findings of a specific phase of the rural
youth situation. Includes chapters on the extent of
of the agricultural short course movement, the
present situation, schools maintaining general
course in agriculture, etc. Published by the Amer1~
can Youth Commission, American Council on
Education, 744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.
November 15, 1938.

 

 

our regular program. The evening was a great
success and it was decided to make it an annual

event.

We also have our anniversary dinner each year,
held at one of the local hotels or restaurants. This
is the one big social event of the year, but we
keep it informal in order that all members may
feel free to come and enjoy themselves.

For the past year we have had a Dimond Gym
Bee which meets once a month from 10:30 A. M.
to 3:00 P. M. Each member brings her sewing,
crocheting or knitting, and ideas and designs are
exchanged by the members.

Still another activity is our crew which meets
weekly on Oakland’s beautiful Lake Merritt and
makes possible an enjoyable morning filled with
healthful outdoor exercise.

A dramatic group is one of our outside activi—
ties, and members interested in giving plays meet
once each week while rehearsals are in progress.
The plays are presented for gymnasium members,
fraternal and church organizations.

Our gymnasium class is open for enrollment
only the first two weeks in the fall semester. We
do not meet during the summer, and we find when
fall comes our members are ready to start the new
term with greater enthusiasm after their absence
from classes. This year our enrollment closed
with II 3 members, possibly the largest class of its
kind in Oakland. We have some unmarried girls
but the majority are mothers, and there are even
a few grandmothers! So we have a well-balanced
membership representing both “pep” and stability.

We have purchased equipment as we have

added to our treasury. Now we have a fine col—
lection of gymnasium equipment, dishes, silver—
ware, tablecloths, dish towels, a large coffee um
and a duplicator machine. We mimeograph our
own song books, include songs we like to sing
and many parodies about our gymnasium class
written by members.

Our philanthropic work consists of giving
Christmas baskets to pe0ple in our community and
in making substantial donations to the school
where our meetings are held.

What Kind of Leadership?

(Continued from page 576)

mal place in the play of the group. Children who
are poor in coordination need to be given oppor—
tunity for practice in various games without being
made to feel inferior to the better players. A well-
trained leader is familiar with a wide variety of
activities for special occasions and has a store of
knowledge upon which to draw in order to add
zest and variety to the daily program.

. “Only as competent leadership is available can
the benefits of participation in organized games
and play activities be assured and the potential
evils eliminated.”

Horses Preferred!
(Continued from page 577)
interclub competition sponsored to promote public
participation in the activity. Last summer mem—
bers of five clubs, composed of employees in local
department stores and silk mills, met in riding
competition, and trophies and ribbons were awarded
the winners. A local horseback riding enthusiast
acted as judge. The affair was highly successful.
All applicants for membership in the Equestrian
Club are placed on probation for three months.
During that time they must complete ten hours of
supervised riding. This entitles them to member-
ship but they are not permitted to wear the club
pin until they have had twenty—five hours of rid-
ing, using standard equipment (English saddle).
Membership dues in the club are $5.00 a year.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 578)

keting, production, and publicity. This group
made up the governing board which was called
a council, usually consisting of seven or eleven
members. At monthly meetings of the group there
are discussions on production, marketing, sala—

YOU ASKED FOR IT! 589

bility of articles, good design, color, craftsman-
ship, and an education program.

In NewwHampshire there were three problems
that had to be solved: first, the training of local
people to make beautiful, salable articles; second,
the establishment of a marketing outlet, and third,
the education of the buying public to the desira-
bility of possessing meritorious handmade articles.

In planning for instruction it was realized that
the townspeople would not be able to meet the
demands of the discriminating public unless they
were trained to be craftsmen. Good craftsmen
were more expensive teachers than mediocre
craftsmen. Instructors were secured from leading
near—by universities and colleges and from other
individuals and organizations who knew and un-
derstood the objectives of the newly organized
group. A salary of $5.00 a day and expenses was
paid to all instructors, with the exception of one
person who received a larger amount.

Many interesting experiences have resulted in
the marketing of handmade products, both as to
location and type of shop as well as displays. It
was found that a shop which would not appear
like a store or just a “gift-shoppe” was highly
desirable. The objective was to create a museuni-
salesroom atmosphere. It was found that intro-
ducing craft demonstrations such as having some-
one weaving, doing needlework, knitting or some
other activity helped create interest. It seemed
best to present in another section the picture of
how the articles for sale could be arranged in a
home by making provision for shelves and cup—
boards supplied with a great variety of the various
crafts from which the customers could choose.

The method of managing the shop might be of
interest to you. A volunteer manager possessing
good business judgment and excellent artistic
taste was secured. That person would be reSpon-
sible for the general running of the shop, the ar-
ranging of displays, the proper shelving of goods,
bookkeeping, and the supervision of salesladies.
When the shOp showed sufficient profit to pay the
manager, this was done. Volunteer salesladies
were also secured. They were usually not the local
crafts people but residents who had some interest
in the community. In some cases they were sum-
mer residents who were vitally interested in the
cultural life of the community. Very careful
leadership is needed when other than native peo-
ple are used as volunteers in the shop. The local
people must realize that it is their organization and
that they are runnning it.-—Frank A. Staples.

   
 

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agenéies are doing ~7— or
not doing ——

  

  
  
 

  

 
   
    
 

To lay the foundation for good citizenship

 
 

To build good character

 
 

To develop personality

 
 

To solve community problems
To safeguard democratic institutions

    
     
 

To improve family life

 
 

To promote recreation and good health

    
 

To encourage cooperative activities

    
 
 
 

  

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

 
     
 

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

 
   
    

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

Leaders of Other Character Building
Agencies

 
     
   
   
  

To introduce the magazine to new read-
ers, a special rate for six issues, Ianu—
ary to June inclusive, is being offered
for $1.00. The regular subscription price
is $2.00 per year.

 
     
     
 
  

  

Send your order to

National Council on Education
for Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

’---..-----------

 
       
    

. 9. Please record my name as a sub-
" scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
'9 SHIP as checked below.

,’ El One year subscription at $2.00
’ El 6 months subscription at $I.00

 
     
   
   
 

NAME ............................................................................ “

  
    
  

ADDRESS .. .....................................  ............................... ..

  

CI'IY .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 
 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Keep on Playing

An Album of Ensembles for Chamber Groups, Band and

Orchestra, edited and arranged by Irving Cheyette.
Paull-Pioneer Music Corp, 1657 Broadway, New York

City. Piano Book, 75¢; all other parts, 40¢.
WITH A REMARKABLE increase in the number of civic
orchestras and the like, and also in the number of
school-trained players who might be in such orchestras.
this set of orchestral accompaniments for songs in the
same publisher’s “Keep on Singing” should be very wel-
come in communities all over the country. The songs are of
very good quality and lasting enjoyment, suited to all
sorts of groups liking to sing, and the arrangements are
by a man who is not only very skillful, but who also
has had a great deal of experience in arranging music
for players of modest skill. Indeed, even where there is
no singing, a group of instrumentalists could enjoy very
much playing these accompaniments. These have been
so arranged as to be adaptable to any combination of
instruments which provides a solo part, second part, third
part and bass part.-——-A. D. Zanzig.

Recreation

A Selected Bibliography. Compiled 'by Grace P. Thornton.
Russell Sage Foundation Library, 130 East 22nd Street,

New York. 10¢.
THIS LIST Is GENERAL in scOpe and represents material
published between 1928 and 1938, on the general sub-
ject of recreation and play areas. Special phases of
recreation, such as camping, athletics, games and similar
activities, have :been omitted because of space limitations.

A Study of the Modern Drama

By Barrett H. Clark. D. Appleton-Century Company,
New York. $3.50.

N THIS, the second revised edition of his book, Mr.

Clark has revised all play lists and bibliographies, has
brought up to date vital statistics about the authors,
has completely overhauled all biographical lists, and has
written two additional chapters—one dealing with Ameri-
can drama from 1928 to the present; the other with
significant drama which has arisen in Russia. All the
significant dramatists from the time of Ibsen to the
present day are given a place in Mr. Clark’s volume, and
each playwright has a chapter which includes his bibliog-
raphy, an account of his achievements, a general com-
mentary. and a complete list of his plays.

Fishing Memories

By Dorothy Noyes Arms. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $3.00.

THIS IS SOMETHING more than just a book about fishing

for through it runs an appreciation of the beauties
of nature and a sympathetic understanding of the people
who cross the pages of the volume, which make it a
delightful book for everyone who loves the out-of-doors.
The illustrations by William J. Schaldach are out-
standing.

590

Make It Yourself

By Julian Starr, Jr. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

HERE IS ANOTHER book for the amateur craftsman who

enjoys making things at home with tools. It offers
complete detailed instructions together with working
drawings for sixty projects, including chairs, tables.
screens and fences for out of doors, furniture and acces-
sories, games, toys and holiday projects, novelties, and
useful things around the house. A few Special playrooms
are described, and information is given on tools required
and methods of work.

Rural America Reads

By Marion Humble. American Association for Adult
Education. New York. $1.00.

THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION for Adult Education esti-

mates that there are nearly forty million pe0ple in the
United States living in rural districts who have no public
library service. In Rural America Reads, Miss Humble
tells us of the efforts which are being made to supply
books to rural districts through libraries, library stations,
by mail, messenger service, truck, car and horseback. It
is an. interesting story which takes us behind the scenes
into the heart of America.

Everyman's Drama

By Jean Carter and Jess Ogden. American Association
for Adult Education, New York. $1.00. '

IN THIS STUDY of the non-commercial theater in the

United States a wide range of groups has been sur-
veyed in twenty-seven states, and information has been
gathered about such well organized little theaters with
full-time workers such as the Cleveland Play House and
the humble dramatics club with volunteer leadership in
rural North Carolina or Wisconsin. The result is a
fascinating portrayal of amateur groups and their activi-
ties so clearly set forth that each group of players comes
alive and assumes a real personality.

A look into the future indicates that the direction of
developments, if present trends are trustworthy indicators,
is toward a theater which is polycentered both geo-
graphically and as to auspices; toward larger and more
discriminating audiences; toward increased Opportunities
for development and utilization of talent of actors, play-
wrights, and the many creative artists required by the
theater; and toward the continuance of experimentation
with new forms, new techniques, and even new purposes.

The Game of Weaving

By Osma Couch Gallinger. International Textbook Com-
pany, Scranton, Pennsylvania. $1.00.

HROUGH THE PAGES of this book, Fanny and Bob, ten _

and fourteen years of age, follow the romantic step-
by-step story of the sources of fibers, how they are

gathered, washed, spun and woven into real cloth. The
volume is a picture book of twenty-one lessons in weav-

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 59.1

ing designed for the instruction and entertainment of

boys and girls who enjoy making worth-while things
with their hands.

Singing Games from the South.

“Kit” 44. Edited by Katherineuaiid Lynn Rohrbough.
Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. 25¢.
Twenty-six singing games are described in this new
member of the Recreation Kit family, and the air of each
song is given.

A New Deal for Youth.

The Story of the National Youth Administration.
By Betty and Ernest K. Lindley. The Viking Press,
New York. $3.00.

In this book the authors have given us a panoramic
picture of the NYA and its activities, with some of the
new aspects, problems and evolutions that have emerged
as the program has developed. “The National Youth
Administration,” state the authors in a concluding para-
graph, “has not solved and cannot solve the basic prob-
lems of the groups of youth it has touched. These
problems are interwoven with and inseparable from the
general social and economic enigmas of this era. NYA
does demonstrate that, given the chance, these youth
show a willingness, often an eagerness, to work, to learn.
and to assume their responsibilities in this civilization.”

Fellowcrafters Series of Instruction Manuals.

Fellowcrafters, Inc., 64 Stanhope Street, Boston,
Massachusetts.

The series of nine inexpensive manuals covering a
variety of craft activities which is now available from
Fellowcrafters, Inc., should prove particularly helpful to
elementary craft classes. The directions for each activity
are clear, concise, and well illustrated. The manuals are
Gimp Braiding Projects and IlIetal Tooling, both by
Charles E. White, Jr., 15 cents each. Other 15 cent
booklets are,New Clays for Old Uses, Chip Carving,
Easiweaoing,“Leathercraft for Beginners, M etalcraft for
Beginners, and Amberolcraft. Silk Screen Process Print-
ing, giving a method of printing often used in making
posters, magazine and book covers, and Christmas cards,
may be secured for 25 cents.

Offstage.

Making Plays from Stories. By Marguerite Fellows
Melc‘her. Alfred A. Knopf, New York. $1.50. . o
This is a book on making plays from stories and in it
Mrs. Melcher gives us the fundamentals which Will make
it possible for us to go about dramatizing or acting for
ourselves. The book also serves the purpose of increasmg
our enjoyment of the stage and various forms of drama.

Community Planning.

By Wayne D. Heydecker and W. Phillip Shatts.
Regional Plan Association, Inc., 400 Madison Ave-
nue, New York. 25¢. . o _
This manual of practical suggestions for Citizenship
participation attempts to answer briefly the questions:
“How organize for community planning?” “How de-
termine what community improvements are needed?”
“How obtain community improvements through plann-
ing ?” A few suggestions are offered for the evaluating
of recreational facilities.

Basketball, 1938- 1939.

With Ochial Rulebook. Edited by Wilhelmine
Meissner for the National Section on Women’s
Athletics of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education 'and Recreation. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. 25¢.
This attractively printed booklet is the first of the
series of the Official Sports Library for Women now.to
be published by A. S. Barnes and Company. The guide

contains the revised rules for 1938-39, published as a
separate booklet, and a number of articles and other in-
formation of interest to athletic directors and all con-
cerned with establishing high standards in the playing
of basketball by women.

Report of an Investigation into Recreative
Gymnastics for Older Women.

Published by the Central Council of Recreative
Physical Training, Abby House, Victoria Street,
S. W. 1, London, England, Price 1 Shilling.

This concise and clear booklet gives the problems aris-
ing from recent Keep Fit and other movements in
England with very fair analysis of the exercises used,
their benefits and dangers. Thirteen pages are devoted
to descriptions of exercises and criticisms of their values.
Excellent recommendations are offered, eSpecially on
pr0grams and leaders. A two—page summary is of value
to 'both English and American leaders, and the seven-
teen pages of sketches illustrating the effect of unsuitable
exercises on posture and movement are excellent. Every
physical educator and recreation leader interested in
women’s gymnastics can profit by this booklet.

Ventriloquism as a Hobby.

By Sydney Vereker. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $1.75.

It is a fine ambition, the author states, to take up
ventriloquism only as a hobby, but he urges those who
have shown special aptitude in it to make it a profession
and help preserve this ancient art. Mr. Vereker in his
book presents by a step—by—step method the techniques
involved in ventriloquism.

The Program Supplement.

Compiled by Jesse L. Murrell. Board of Education
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 740 Rush Street,
Chicago. 15¢.

This descriptive bibliography of program resources
for young pe0ple covers a wide variety of subjects or-
ganized under twelve areas, including the church,
citizenship, the economic area, friendship, health/home,
recreation, school, vocation, and world relationships. Six
hundred and fifty-five booklets and pamphlets are listed
from 171 publishers and distributors. The average price
of these pamphlets is 15 cents.

Effective Group Discussion:

A Guide for Group Members.
By Thomas Fansler. Revised Edition. Service
Bureau for Adult Education. Division of General
Education, New York University. 15¢.

In his introduction to this practical little paniphlet,
Dean Dearborn of the Division of General Education of
New York University says: “Small group discussion
can be one of the most effective ways of learning. It can
also be one of the most wasteful ways. At its best it
assumes the active, constructive participation of each
member of the group.”

American Youth.

An Annotated Bibliography. By Louise Arnold
Menefee and M. M. Chambers. The American

' Youth Commission of the American Council on
Education, Washington, D. C. $3.00.

What is youth thinking about work, wages, war,
religion, marriage? Twenty-Five hundred books and
pamphlets have been written on this subject, most of them
since 1930. This remarkable bibliography lists them_all
under such headings as: The Problems of Modern Youth,
Attitudes of Youth, Education, Health, Family Life and
Housing, Leisure and Recreation. Citizenship, etc. Each
book or pamphlet is described in a paragraph giving the
name of the author, name of the volume, and the date of
publication, and a brief statement about the contents of
each document. Recreation executives or laymen seeking
help in compiling materials or preparing addresses will
find this an invaluable guide for locating materials.

592 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The Principles of Physical Education.

By Jesse Feiring Williams, A.B., M.D. W. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia. $3.00.

In this, the third edition of his book, Dr. Williams has
brought the text up to date 'by rewriting a number of
important subjects and making significant changes in
almost every chapter. Two of the four aims of the book
will be of special interest to recreation workers: “The
development of favorable attitudes toward play” and
“the development Of standards of conduct by instilling

standards of fair play.”

Adult Abilities.

A Study of University Extension Students. By

Herbert Sorenson. The University Of Minnesota

Press, Minneapolis. $2.00. "

That adults learn much better than is commonly

believed is the conclusion reached by Dr. Sorenson after
a study of many thousands of adult students in university
extension classes. Dr. Sorenson further states that the
diminution of mental powers with age is very moderate
if those powers be systematically exercised. This study
will be very valuable for all interested in adult
education.

Safety for Myself and Others.

By George L. Bush, Theodore W. Ptacek and John
Egzévats, Jr. American Book Company, New York.
This is a complete and separate unit on safety covering
home, school and outdoor safety, safety in industry,
safe driving, highway and traffic safetyw—all the major
problems of personal and public safety.

Seventy-five Years.

Volume XVIII of the Bulletin of the Buffalo Society
of Natural Sciences.

This history of the Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences, 1861-1936, is as Chauncey Hamlin, its president,
says: “a scientific record of pioneering, of evolution from
collecting things for the sheer sake of collecting to
collecting ideas for the sake of disseminating a coherent
concept of the universe, the earth, and the living crea-
tures that people it.” The museum was the first in the
world to pioneer in work with children; the first to plan
its exhibits so that they would tell a continuous and
related story of man’s scientific knowledge, and it is a
pioneer in adult museum education in evening exhibit
hours to make the museum available to business peOple.
Its record of accomplishment places it in the foremost
rank among museums Of the world.

By T. Shozo Kuwashima and Ash'bel R. Welch.
Printice-Hall, Inc., New York. $2.50.
'Here are thirty lessons in the modern science of Jiu-
Jitsu, a sport which offers a method for keeping fit and
at the same time is equipment for self-defense. The book

contains over 140 photographic illustrations of performers
in action.

Directory of Hobbies and Spare-time Opportunities.

gszrk City Book Supply, Bridgeport, Connecticut.
_While this is not an exhaustive bibliography of hob-
blCS:'1t offers a Wide range of source material and. in
addition, lists a number of magazines dealing with

hobbies. There are also some brief articles and interesting
notes on hobbies.

“Hpnor Your Partner.”

Ten Square Dance Calls with Explanations by C. L.
“Buck” Stinson. Available from James R Clossin
2924 Van Buren Street, El Paso, Texas. 75¢. ,
This attractive little book has been prepared to assist
those who are learning to do square dancing and to know
the calls and their meanings. Some of the most common
figures danced at dances today are included. with ac-

companying calls and explanations as to how each figure
is executed. '

Literature as Exploration.

By Louise M. Rosenblatt. D. Appleton-Century Co.,
New York. $2.25.

The Commission on Human Relations of the Progres-
sive Education Association has been charged with the re-
sponsibility of helping young peOple with the urgent
problem of personal and social living today. One Of the
means of rendering such help was the publication of
Literature as Exploration. While this book is addressed
to teachers of literature in high schools and‘colleges, its
ultimate purpose is to give the study of literature a cen-
tral place in the growth of the social and cultural life of
the democracy. Literature is dealt with as a form of art.
Its enjoyment by students is the source from which all
other values spring. Reading brings the student into the
experience of other people. It combines literary appre-
ciation and social understanding. This book will be of
importance to recreation workers who are deeply inter-
ested in reading and its place in the personal lives of
readers as well as in the program of the recreation
department.

Guide to the Appalachian Trail in Maine.

Publication NO. 4. The Appalachian Trail Confer-
;ncse, 901 Union Trust Building, Washington, D. C.
l. 0.

This publication supplies detailed_trail data in both
directions for the now completed 266 miles of Appala-
chian trail in Maine. It includes a series of ten maps of
the trail route, one of them a large scale map of the
entire route across Maine.

Oflicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROEERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAvus T. KIRDY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRs. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York. N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRs. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HAstLL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA. M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LAsSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUsAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

