The Spirit of the

National Recreation Movement

NEVER HAS the national recreation movement been a centralized
national movement with control at the top.

The effort has always been to help local recreation units to
become strong, vital, dynamic, adventuresome, experimental.

There has always been effort to have centralization of knowl-
edge and experience on a cooperative basis.

Many have .wished that the National Recreation Association
would make an effort to secure greater uniformity so that the work
in various cities would be more alike.

The leaders in the Association have believed that there is in the
long run greater strength in individualization, in encouraging origi-
nality, in helping cities to be different from one another while
knowing all about one another.

 

" This desire and effort to encourage differences is rather contrary
to the strong world tendency at the present time toward ‘centraliza-
tion, toward control.

Of course in the national recreation movement there never could
be any large degree of centralized control because the local work is so
largely governmental, municipal. Yet the national recreation move- ,
ment has studiously avoided accepting the degree of "leadership"
control which localities have often desired.

Recreation is an expression of the inner life of a people, of what
the peOple really are and desire. It is more important in recreation
than in other fields that there be the greatest encouragement of free-
dom, variation, creativeness, originality.

Clerk mindedness, red tape, bureaucracy, regimentation, sys-
tematization are contrary to the true spirit of recreation. Music,
art, sport, recreation on the national side need a light and, not a
heavy touch. Any national leadership in recreation which is not
in the direction of spontaneity and creativeness would be a step

backward.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

FEBRUARY, I939

 

593

K '-

Courtesy Butler Hospital, Providence, R. I.

 

Toward an Understanding of Leisure

What preparations are you making for the
leisure which will be yours on retirement?

often picture men of :55

or 66 as they are retir—
ing on an annuity for life.
These men are shown wreathed in smiles upon the
reception of their first check. You are left with
the impression that they spend the rest of their
lives in contentment, laughing secretly at the toil—
ing world, and dying at a ripe old age at least four
years older on the average than the non-annuitant.
The picture embodies the imagined success of
many a hard-pressed American.

The chances are small that these men remain
contented for very long after their period of re—
tirement begins. It has been my observation that
the cessation of a busy routine, the precipitous
stopping of a regular occu-
pation, often makes men

I NSURANCE advertisments

By DR. ELIOT D. HUTCHINSON

Department of Psychology
University of Rochester

The leisure of retirement has much to offer

I

restless, neurotic. The sit-
uation is usually this:

For a brief time after re-
tirement they enjoy their
freedom, revelling in the thought that now at last
they can do as they please. But suddenly they
wake up to the fact that they do not please to do
enough, that for active people managing leisure
time is a serious responsibility. Furthermore,
they are now out of the running; they have a
different occupational status than formerly. The
rest of the world, including their business and
professional associates, continues its routine. But
they are not needed any more—driftwood caught
in the backwash of events. They lose grip and
self confidence; they became introspective, fright-

' ened of social contacts which »

formerly they made so

men who are interested in creative activities

 

Courtesy Ion-a WPA

595

596 TOWARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF LEISURE

easily, even hypocondriacal. The less discipline
they impose upon themselves the greater is their
depression. Something is wrong: and they strug-
gle desperately, pathetically even, to regain con-
fidence, self-respect and zest. Leisure which
promised so much in happiness, yields so little in
actual reward.

Particularly is this situation apparent in those
who are forced into idleness by unemployment or
by the increasingly shortened hours of modern
industry. Few have plans for such an emergency.
Not long ago a large group of unemployed sales-
men were interviewed in an attempt to determine
their relation to such leisure. Their attitudes
ranged from a sense of personal failure to one of
fatalistic acceptance of misfortune. A new and
subtly undermining social distinction arOse be-
tween them and the fortunate ones who still [had
jobs. During the initial phases a feeling of use-
lessness prevailed. Then hopeless indifference
which lacked the energy for open political rebel-
lion took its place. The effects of enforced leisure
upon personality are usually these: increased in-
stability (seen even in children), lowered morale,
increased indulgence in escape mechanisms —
movies, alcohol, sex and other outlets—and disor-
ganization of personal and social habits. Leisurez
in the sense of just undirected time, is not only
unsatisfying; it is often psychologically dis-
astrous. If undisciplined, it soon makes men un-
employable, producing peculiar mental effects
which frequently persist even after ostensible re-
adjustment has taken place.

The hopeful aspect in the national situation,
however, lies in the fact that there are now thou-
sands of people in early and middle life who are
saving money under the Social Security Act for
retirement at age sixty-five. These people are
facing with a new seriousness the problem of
planning for their coming leisure. What was for-
merly only a dream of delights that could never
be theirs, is now an imminent reality. Little won-
der that they are looking forward to the posses-
sion of leisure with an interest born of adventure
and release. But somehow we need a new con-
ception of the nature of leisure, an appreciation
of the principles which make it tolerable. To this
end let us bend our thOUght.

In the first place, I think that we must revise
the common notion that leisure is just unor-
ganized intervals of time. Sheer loahng is pos-
sible only when there has been strenuous activity
preceding it. It is ordinarily tolerable only when

it is the necessary relaxation following construc-
tive ePfort. Under such conditions a man may
spend some time in recuperative idleness. But
when one is facing an extended period of time,
such as “years of unemployment or retirement,
idleness can be no solution. There is not enough
activity in it to impose a discipline on living. The
moment of transition to retirement, with its
change of pace; becomes thus a particularly criti-
cal and dangerous period. How can it be met
successfully?

Preparing for Leisure

Such a transition obviously demands prepara-
tion. One cannot plunge into a period of extended
free time without being ready for the change.
And that preparation begins not only at the
moment of retirement but mentally much prior to
it. Activities that are to be the chief interest after
retirement must have been in progress before it.
The age of sixty-live is, by very nature of habits
already long established, a difficult time to start
really new interests, but an excellent time to ma-
ture older ones. I have seen many men who have
long devoted themselves exclusively to their rou-
tine work, who, upon retirement, have found
themselves too old, too inflexible, too habit-ridden
to commence a consuming interest successfully. A
particular example may be of value.

A man, now sixty-six, who had been a success-
ful business manager for a large eastern concern,
retired last year. All his life he had followed a
strict routine, failing to develop secondary inter-
ests because of what he thought were‘the en-
grossing demands of his position. Now he has
gone to live in a pleasant New Hampshire town
where in the meantime his wife has had the fore-
sight to rebuild a charming old house. But within
the first month after his retirement he nearly went
to pieces, became depressed, irritable, discouraged,
a misfit—unhappy with his new neighbors, and
forgotten, so he thought, by his old.

What such a man needs is not further relaxation;
he has too much of that already. He needs, rather,
major interests to direct and consume his now
unused energies. But these, owing to his age, are
difficult to promote and will grow only slowly,
while in the meantime he has to suffer. The point
I want to make clear is this: had he tasted avoca-
tional interests years ago—gardening, hobbies, in-
tellectual pursuits, creating something—he could
not now wait to seize the opportunity to carry
these reserve interests into action. They would

TOWARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF LEISURE 597

Prepare for future leisure
by cultivating an interest
which will be lifelong

have given him spiritual
adventure and saved him
from the neurotic dan—
ger of introspection.
Whatever you think of
the moral values of hav—
ing definite purposes in
life—interests, usually
the more the better, di-
rected toward some long
term end and c0ntinuing
through life, are cer-
tainly of immense psy—
chological import. The particular type of inter—
est matters little; it’s functional effect upon char-
acter, a great deal. Men lacking such absorbing
concerns usually fail to meet the advent of leisure
successfully; they fail, that is, in their own esti-
mation, if not in that of others. Thus for most
people leisure programs should be carried along
with their struggle for existence as a parallel en—
terprise. Dividends may be deferred, but are pay—
able eventually with rich reward.

And yet it is not always impossible to begin an
interest late in life. Sometimes in fact men grow
faster in regard t0‘such wOrk, accomplish more in
less time, than do the young. They have greater
preparation and background for a productive en-
terprise. .They have greater motivation. Conse—
quently, if they can maintain a degree of mental
flexibility, they have greater accomplishment. I
know a man who did not begin painting until he
was forty—five, but so great was his matured in—
sight and so true his perceptions that he rapidly
became one of the foremost artists in a large
eastern city. He grew more in reference to his
avocational interest in five years than he had in
reference to his routine work in twenty. It is not
impossible, but merely unlikely, that such new
reaches of enthusiasm will come late in life to a
man who has not entertained them earlier. The
time to begin an avocational interest is the present.

In the second place, leisure for most people
must be devoted to things which require little ex.-
pense, and in the main are non-profit making. The
man whom I have just mentioned has only a mod-

 

 

Photo by William Newkirk, Cambridgie, Mass.

erate retirement annuity. He cannot afford yachts,
or horses, or extensive travel. His activity must
be near at home. Four main types of avocational
interests offer suggestions for his thought— (1)
those connected with sports and games; ( 2) learn—
ing something; (3) creating something; (4) col—
lecting something. All of these, especially the first
three, are open to him at little expense. It is not
necessary to list his opportunities. The important
thing is that he take them, as he took his regular
work, seriously. The thing he lacks is not the op—
portunity to employ himself at moderate cost—
almost everyone has that—but the discipline of
living which his former work imposed upon him.
That work was the directing factor of his life.
Now somehow he will have to develop new in—
terest so coordinated and so exacting as to invite
for himself a similar routine— freer perhaps in
some respects—but a routine nonetheless which
will relieve him of the necessity of making every
morning the decision as to what he will do. The
thing that is wearing him down is not the lack of
things to do, but the necessity of making decisions
about what to do. The function of his interests is,
then, this: to act as a director for his general
habits of living, dictator of his routine practices.
In short, to relieve him of constant worry about
things normally decided automatically.

In the third place, leisure for most people will
become an opportunity for individual employment.
When a man ceases his routine work and retires,
the type of activity in which he subsequently en—
gages is usually different from his former work.

598 TOWARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF LEISURE

He changes not only= pace but content of activity.
No longer does he work at a machine, in an office,
or in competition with others. By force of cir-
cumstance his interests are now related to what
his personal efforts can accomplish. They are cul-
tural in the same \sense that his previous avoca—
tional interests functioned as a relief from too
routine a life. In particular, therefore, their ef-
fect upon his OWn growth is more immediate.

One of the things leisUre does for a man is to
allow him to experience many things personally,
freshly and for the first time. He can, therefore,
cease to be herd—minded, opinionless, and inarticu—
late. He learns what he wants, what he likes, and
almost invariably he chooses those things which
have the greatest expressive value for his own
personality, which yield the greatest ego-satisfac-
tion. And since his leisure activities are thus re-
lated to his fundamental desires, they are in a real
sense of the word character—forming, creative.
And because they are creative, they are more
likely to put him eventually in a position of lead-
ership among others. Thus, although his interests
start as individual, they wind up with a strong
social import. It is always from others that we
gain support for our own legitimate self esteem.

Dangers Inherent in Use of Leisure

But in the use of leisure, as we have intimated,
lurk a number of specific dangers. What are some
of these? The first is the danger of allowing
standardized amusements to usurp leisure time.
Recently there have been several studies reported
on the diagnosis of leisure time activities. One of
these deals with the activities of young people on
New York’s lower west side. Diary schedules
covering a period of four accurately recorded days
in early spring were obtained from 1,100 Junior
High School students of 75% foreign parentage.
On analysis it was found that the most frequently
reported leisure activities were, in order: (I) lis-
tening to the radio (chiefly entertainment fea-
tures); (2) attending motion pictures (84% of
which were considered unsuited to children) ; (3)
reading tabloid newspapers, (five-cent magazines,
adventure story books); and (4) spending time
outdoors (84% unsupervised play on the streets).

In another study of the leisure time activities of
Illinois and Georgia students in schools ranging
in size from 90 to 650 pupils, a questionnaire re-
vealed the same control of time by these standard—
ized and effortless forms of amusement. The type
of radio program' which ranks high in interest

value for these adolescents is concerned with the
transient and more superficial aspects of life. The
effortless nature of these presentations, the im-
mediacy and continuity of them makes them not
only enticing but also unproductive of self—sus—
taining attitudes.

While the same proportion of older people may
not indulge in these pursuits, it is my guess that
the habits of youth carry over little changed into
adulthood. A study of the reading of 46,000
older people is reported. Popularity was found to
influence greatly the types of books read, as well
as the magazines and newspapers. Three—fourths
of the reading done was light fiction. Sixty per
cent of the people had read no books for six
months. In such reading there is little to develop
judgment, discrimination and the critical facul—
ties. Again standardized co‘ntent takes the place
of constructive interests. A study of the movies,
the radio, and the newspaper indicate that their
appeals, because regressive, recurrent, and acces—
sible, are as captivating to the old as to the young.
While no harm, perhaps, results from moderate
use, they often develop attitudes of dependence
which are hard to revise when leisure becomes
compulsory, and positive readjustment of life
necessary. Herein lies at least one danger—that
leisure may not foster that self-reliance which is
capable of meeting further leisure with equanimity.

A second danger in the possession of leisure
lies inherent in the vagueness of the ambitions it
contains. Few people ever formulate what they
want definitely enough to do anything about it.
Their conversation is of yesterday, their thought
of a vague tomorrow when things will “break”
for them in a half dream world where anything
may supposedly happen, and “some day their
Prince will come.” They do not see leisure time
as a period in which their unexpressed longings
may find fulfillment. Hence they are forever
looking beyond the present, never realizing the
solid satisfaction of actual accomplishment. But
day by day we hammer away at the marble which
is time; chip by chip it falls at our feet, and un—
less we have Some model or design to objectify,
the result is simply a heap of wasted chips, form-
less and pitable. Witness the pathos of unre-
warded age.

The necessary sense of direction is best achieved
by a concrete statement of projects or goals. And
these like charity begin at home, grow out of po-
tentialities-already realized. It is a matter of
choosing some aim, realistically within the power

TOW’ARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF LEISURE 599

of the individual, and of applying to it all avail-
able energy and persistence. The adventure at
once becomes the foundation upon which more
extended success is built.

All this, to be sure, is an old truism, but it takes
on new significance when we realize that it means
for the individual a statement of self respect, a
sense of comradeship with others in a common
adventure, often a public appreciation of value to
society, a stimulating substitute for formal em-
ployment. But the danger, I say, is that owing to
the fear, hesitation and lack of knowledge as to
how to procede, the individual never gets under
way with anything. So many» people want to
write, to act, to paint, to sculpture, to engage in
handicrafts, to be of service. Ambitions toward
such goals, especially now in time-free adults, are
amazingly widespread. Counted in millions today,
such people have, it is estimated, increased five
fold since 1930. You only have to show the re-
sults of your own labors to them and they say,
almost wistfully, ‘fI wish I could do that.” And
for the moment they do. But when they learn
that creative accomplishment requires discipline,
persistence, insight, and long periods of tedious
elaboration, they fall by the wayside for lack 'of
the will to eXpend the necessary energy. It takes
a dogged wrestling with the fates to achieve the
“integrity of one’s own soul.” So I say, begin
easily, choose a project within reach, climb slowly,
achieve solidly. The satisfactions of patient e11-
deavor should never be dissipated. Otherwise
passivity and indifference may contribute as an
obstacle to social welfare in this country.

A third danger lurks in our lack of imagination
as to the possibilities of leisure. Not long ago, in
Des Moines, Iowa, as similarly, I know, in Roch—
ester, New York, a hobby show was held. Now
hobbies are only one form
of leisure activity. But what
happened was amazing. The
show was started as a leap
year adventure by a depart-
ment store in one case and
as a museum project in the
other, and confined exclu-
sively to men. At first the
men were timid and sent in
their wives with entries.
Later they came openly.
Presently contributions be-
came an avalanche as news-
boy and millionaire, store

"A person who has rarelyI it everI played.
who has been over-serious. over-strenuousI
and has become stale and humorlessI looks
forward to retirementI otten plans for it,
but when the plan is realized he is apt to
go to pieces immediately and rapidly. Why?
Because he is a confirmedI chronic special-
ist in work and has no other interests. Take
that away from him and he is lost. With-
out worl< his self-importance dies of star-
vation. He has leisure but he doesn't know
what to do with itI for he has lost the
ability to play as well as the opportunity
to workI and consequently is a thoroughly
miserable person.'I ——Austen Fox Riggs.

clerk and banker, brought in his own handwork—
anything from collections of coins to antique fur—
niture. Over a thousand articles were submitted.
Space had to be roped off and attendants placed
to direct visitors. Educators came filled with curi-
osity and remained to admire. One man who had
done his puttering in secret, suddenly found him—
self with city-wide and state-wide recognition ——
certainly an ego-satisfaction of real import to him.
It is unnecessary here to list the exhibits. There
were hundreds of them from model ships to hand
woven rugs, from prints to—mimbile dictu—em-
broidery, from collecting stamps to collecting
beetles and old glass. The point to realize is the
variety. It opens one’s eyes to the number of such
legitimate secondary interests, and confirms the
opinion that no one need lack suggestions as to
how to use his time profitably. And yet the dan-
ger is that we do not advertise this wealth in avo-
cational possibilities. The failure is in part a fail—
ure of imaginative and directive power, which too
constant insistance from sources of standardized
stimulation has produced. We have often failed
to see leisure as necessary and formative; now,
when we must depend upon the imaginative flexi—
bility which its proper use should have engen-
dered, we are hopelessly inadequate and prosaic.

Avoiding Pitfalls in Leisure

These dangers, then, are inherent in the posses-
sion of leisure. How can we avoid them? How
reap the fullest reward from those years of free-
dom which almost certainly will crown the lives
of thousands of us? The answer is in one sense
simple; its challenge to fulfillment more difficult.
By way of summary and conclusion, I suggest
the following:

(I) We should,-I believe, take regular vaca-
tions long before the period
of retirement begins. We
should learn the taste of
leisure, have some acquaint-
ance with its essential prob-
lems, estimate in some part
its rewards.

(2) We should, I believe,
launch really stimulating
avocational interests early
in life in order that the
transition to such interests
at the time of retirement
may be made easy. Only in

(Continued on page 629)

 

Adapting Baseball

to the

Needs. of the Blind

blind people, the San Francisco Recreation De—

partment has included in its athletic program
a sound baseball game. The game was originated
by R. V. Chandler, Superintendent of the Indus—
trial Home for the Adult Blind of California
which is located in Oakland, California. It has
been experimented with by the inmates of the In-
dustrial Home and has proven quite successful.
Since adopting this activity the athletic staff of
the San Francisco Recreation Department has
worked consistently with the blind and now has
several teams using the equipment.

The game is quite simple and is played with
eleven men on each team, the only seeing person
being the pitcher. Inasmuch as he has sight he is
not included as a regular member of the team and
is not allowed a time at bat, nor can he field the
ball. '

The nine players in the field line up an equal
distance apart facing home plate. They knee] on
a continuous pad placed five feet immediately
back of the base paths between first and second,

600

IN AN EFFORT to provide physical activity for

The National Recre-
ation Association
will make available
to anyone request-
ing them a copy of
the rules of sound
baseball and a dia-

gram of the playing
field used in this

modification of the

game which is being
used so successfully
in San Francisco.

By J. P. LANG

Supervisor of Athletics
San Francisco Recreation Department

and second and third bases. When the game is
called for play they are to be on their knees and
in a position to field the ball when it is batted in
their direction.

' The base paths are constructed of round
wooden dolls three feet in width and thirty-three
feet in length, each doll being separated by three;
quarters of an inch. These paths tie into the
wooden bases thirty inches square which are open
to release sound. There is a bell or buzzer of a
different tone located under each base, which is used
as a signal for the batters and runners and to indi—
cate the location for the fielders. The bases are
bevelled on each side to prevent obstruction of the
ball. The ball is seventeen inches in circumference
with jinglers inside for sound. The ball is rolled by
the pitcher to the batter who listens intently for
the approach of the ball and attempts to hit it with
a standard outdoor hockey stick. When the ball
is hit, the buzzer at the closest base to which the
ball is being directed rings as a warning to the
fielders that the ball is located in their territory.

(Continued on page 631)

Fees and Charges for Public Park Services

ARKS ARE in every sense of
P the word a vital necessity.

They are an essential to the
welfare, health, and orderly en-
joyable life of every community,
commonwealth, and the nation as a whole. Every
inhabitant should take pride—and I am sure the
great majority of thinking people do———in the fact
that they have common ownership in their parks,
be they municipal, state, or national in character.

There are, generally speaking, no free parks
nor park services. The common ownership is
based on the fact that all of the people are con—
tributing to their establishment, operation, and
upkeep through both direct and indirect taxation.
“Free” park service is a misnomer. The more we
bring it home to the people that as joint owners
of those properties they must share in the sup-
port and protection as well as benefits of their
parks, the greater will be their appreciation and
participation in the pr0per use and enjoyment of
these their common properties. We must make
more use of the word “public” in referring to
such possessions and service. Instead of adver-
tising “free concerts,” for instance, in such and
such a park, we should say “public or park
concerts.”

I maintain that public parks are a necessity and
must be provided for through public funds ob-
tained through some manner of public taxation.
If so acquired, they must be open to all people
alike. To charge admission to enter them is, to
say the least, unjust and unwise. I want to think
of parks as God-given to all alike—owned and
supported in common proprietorship—which they
certainly are. To exclude those who cannot or
will not pay for admission is, to my mind, funda-
mentally wrong. Such parks would cease to be
“public parks” in the true sense of the word. The
justification for their exist-
ence as universally-bene-
licial common properties is
greatly diminished and their
claim to universal public
support naturally impaired.

Public parks—municipal,
state, or national—are
worthy of all the public
support they have received

By THEODORE WIRTH

Superintendent Emeritus
Board of Park Commissioners
Minneapolis. Minnesota

We are very glad to have the opportunity
of presenting to our readers extracts from
a letter discussing the propriety of levy-
ing taxes and charging fees for services ren-
dered through commonly acquired. owned
and administered public parks, which was
sent by Mr. Wirth to a number of officials
in the National Park Service. Mr. Wirth's
statement of opinion will be of great in-
terest to park and recreation officials.

in the past, and if their real value
is more and more appreciated,
the willingness to provide such
support will increase. It must in-
crease as the demand for com-
mon ownership and public service increases. The
general taxpayer is willing to carry a reasonable
share of that burden, just as he is for other pub-
lic services rendered by the community, state, or
federal government. Because some people cannot
or do not care to visit parks is no reason why they
should be exempt from such general taxation for
the benefit of all—not any more than they can
be exempted from general taxation for schools
because they have no children.

What we park men have to watch for, with the
at present so-wide-awake movement and demand
for outdoor life and recreation facilities, is that
we keep within reasonable bounds in providing
them, giving careful consideration to available or
prospective means of operation and upkeep in the
future. Let us not solicit or accept gifts or bar-
gains for things which we do not need badly or
which we know or have grave doubts about our
ability to utilize or maintain in the future.

I have thus far devoted my remarks to advo-
cating the justification for general'taxation for
park purposes. I have in mind mostly municipal
parks. However, the same principles, I feel, ap—
ply also to state and national parks.

The question of taxation is an ever-present, per-
plexing, unpopular problem, not only all over the
country, but in the world at large. Nevertheless,
it has to be solved, and there are more ways than
one of doing so. There is no universal rule that
can be justly applied everywhere.

There must be some way in most communities
to find means to accomplish such desirable objec—

' tives. Every community has its own problems to

solve, but in most instances,
where there is a will, there
is a way to be found—if
there is leadership'and pub-
lic spirit behind it.

Of course there is a limit
to the extent of the needs
of such public ownership
and provisions for recrea-
tion, entertainment, and

601

602 EEES AND CHARGES FOR PUBLIC PARK SERVICES

pleasure. I believe it is gen-_
erally assumed that one acre
of such property per 100 in-
habitants is a fair ratio of
sufficiency in that line of
public provision, provided the
area is properly distributed.
The general taxpayers in pro-—
viding the community with
.such grounds for common
ownership and reasonable fa-
cilities and service to make
them safe and useful for
their intended purpose are doing their full share
towards such community service. Many of the
facilities offered by those grounds, while open to
all, are made use of by only a part of the popula-
tion—in fact, some of them by only a small per-
centage. For example, our bathing beaches may
‘serve a total attendance of 300,000 people a sea-
son, but most likely it is less than 20% of our
population that makes use of the opportunity——
utilizing the facilities over and over again—and
that comparatively small percentage of users, in
all fairness, can be charged a reasonable fee for
using the facilities provided by the general tax-
payer. 'I think it is agreed by all seasoned, ex-
perienced park men that there is a justification as
well as need for making a charge for the use of
special facilities which are used by only a limited
percentage of the population.

The real problem, in all probability, is to de-
cide what accommodations are really desirable or
essential and can be classed as such special facili-
ties, and what is a reasonable charge for their use.
That is indeed a perplexing question, greatly in-
fluenced by demand and patronage. Take tennis,
for instance, for which we have provided 199
courts in our park system, 87% of which are con-
crete courts. We do not furnish nets and there is
no charge made. They are spread over our entire
system and are located chiefly in neighborhood
parks and playgrounds. However, we have a bat-
tery of thirteen special clay tournament courts
that are available for reservation for the use of
which charges are made.

Without going into detail of character and ac—
commodations and amount of reasonable fees and
charges, I would list the following services that
should be classed as special and for which charges
may be justilied:

1. Tourist accommodations of all kinds in all
parks.

"What is a park? In my opinion it is an
area. of land selected and preserved or
designed' developed and maintained for
the purpose of satisfying the fundamen-
tal need for recreation. The latter may
be active or passive in character and
its satisfaction may vary' from lying on
one's back and contemplating the beauty
of the clouds to the most active sport
you can think of. but that this need ex-
ists among all ages and all classes will.
I believe. be unquestioned."—Mark-
ley Stevenson, National Park Service. ment-

2. Bath houses, swimming
pools, and beaches.

3. Golf—no course to be
operated unless self-sus-
taining. *

4. Ref reshment-commissary
establishments—none to
be operated unless self-
sustaining, and to be
operated by the depart-

5. Tennis courts where
practical.
6. Dancing facilities.
7. Seating accommodations for theatrical, musi-
cal, or other entertainment.
8. Parking for special occasions.
9. Boating.
10. Docking and anchoring facilities for private
boats.
11. Seating accommodations for special athletic
competitive or exhibition games.
12. Exclusive use of facilities by individual
groups or organizations.
13. Certain picnic accommodations.
14. Various other facilities for outdoor games not
indulged in by the general public.
15. Toboggan rentals, skate rentals, checking.
16. Cabins, fuel for heating, cooking purposes.

The earnings of such revenue-producing activi-
ties should revert to the department’s treasury
and be a part of its budget calculations.

We all theorize about problems before us and
come to certain conclusions which influence and
determine our policies. Conditions change more
or less in most things from time to time, and what
was a sound policy years ago may not be so today
or in the future. We must be willing and ready
to change our policies if the changes in conditions
are correct and for the better. We must resist
them if they are not so. That we should differ as
to the best solution of such questions of theories
and facts as well, is obvious and only human
nature. My theory is that a reasonable tax levy
for the establishing, operation, and upkeep of
facilities and services commensurate to the re-
quirements of a community is justified.

I may explain, for the sake of discussion, what
my theory is. For illustration, let us use a mu-
nicipality of 500,000 population, with a modern,
up-to-date park, parkway, and playground sys—
tem of 5,000 acres—or one acre per 100 inhabi-
tants. Let us assume that the park system pro-

FEES AND CHARGES FOR PUBLIC PARK SERVICES 603

vides all the proper equipment for the efficient
operation of necessary functions to render satis-
factory service through recognized, essential and
highly beneficial activities and uses within reason-
able requirements, and that such properties are
properly maintained and safely protected. The
probable annual cost of such efficient operation
and maintenance would be $1,000,000, or an
average per annum of $2.00 per capita.

If we figure the school population to be 20% of
the total population, the tax population would be
reduced to 400,000, and the average cost per
capita increased to $2.50 per year. To this can be
added the income from such revenue-producing
services which may be provided.

Assuming that the total tax levy for all mu-
nicipal activities and purposes is 100 mills on the
assessed valuation (about 35% of full and true
valuation amounting to $250,000,000), the park
tax would be 4 mills or 4% of the tax dollar.
What a small contribution from the individual
towards this great and so-very-beneficial com—
munity service, when we consider how liberal
most all of us are in spending money for other
recreation and pleasures such as movies, automo-.
biles, smoking, and drinking!
On such a minimum tax rate
a department can give fairly
adequate and efficient ser-
vice with proper compen-
sation for labor and ma-
terial. Considering the great
variety of service given, the
benefits of which are ob-
tainable and enjoyed by
every inhabitant, young and
old, I claim that such taxa-
tion is amply justified and
will be gladly paid by the
well-informed taxpayer —
especially if he considers
also the aesthetic value
which a well—devised, ap-
pointed, and maintained
park and recreation system
gives to the city as a whole.

The question has been
raised as to whether parks
can be made self-sustaining.
There is a publicly owned
amusement park in West-
chester, New York, which
is more than self-sustain—

__r  2r .
gawk-at ->v  .. -

Lacking the public park many a boy
would be without a place to skate

 

_,_._  ,.-, _.

Photo by William Newkirk, Cambridge, Mass.

ing, I believe. There is a difference between a
strictly amusement park and a regular public park.
The latter cannot be made self-sustaining through
admission and other fees without losing its char-
acter as such, and its sound, desirable spirit of
public service and ownership.

Wherever practical at all, all required service in
parks should be rendered by the department direct
and not through third parties, lease-holders, or
concessions. This I realize is for adequate rea-
sons not always nor everywhere possible. I be-
lieve public parks should not be used and manipu—
lated for private gain; that by rendering such
direct department-controlled service, the public’s
interests are best protected; and that all earnings
from such service should revert to the department
for the good of the public. This service should
be rendered in a way not to create unfair compe—
tition with outside commercial establishments.
The aim should be good merchandise, good ser-
vice, reasonable, modest profit. It stands to reason
that such service, or at least the total services as
a group, must be self-sustaining and should not
be rendered unless they are self-supporting. They
ought to earn money for the department. We
have successfully operated
along such lines for the past

thirty years—to the pub-

lic’s as well as the depart-
ment’s benefit.

My comments on the
questions of policies re-
garding charges for special
accommodations and privi-
leges are based mainly on
my observations and exper-
ience with municipal park
administration over a period
of more than forty years,
during which interval many
changes in the service, func-
tions, and utilization of
park properties have taken
place. The whole country
has become park conscious,
and during the past two
decades, thousands of com-
munities, large and small,
and practically all common-
wealths have acquired such
prOperties for the use and
benefit of all their people.

(Continued on page 631)

 

What They Say

" HAT YOUTH as well as age needs is zest for
W the world in which they live. How can

this be acquired? You know as well ‘as I.
You get it from the best people you have ever
known or the best ones you have read about, like
Jesus Christ, through contagion of personality.
Bring young people in touch with vital people.
The tragedy of life is those people who have never
had a chance to see the best, and therefore they
are satisfied with the second best, or the fiftieth
best."—Richord Cabot, M.D., speaking before the
Girls Service League, October 25, 1938.

“The significance of our free time activities is
that they place us in a sharing mood. Thus in
hiking through the country, in games, in music,
painting, weaving, in the discussion of ideas, we
issue from our isolation. We learn the fine art of
companioning and of wishing for others the hap-
piness we ourselves enjoy.”~—From report of con-
ference of Cincinnati Schoolmasters Club.

“Recreation, rightly interpreted, is a re-creating
of the vital energies of man whether by physical
exercise, creative activity, entertaining absorption,
or mere relaxation. It is as essential to his well-
being as food, sleep and work. It is a pressing
need in the present—day tempo of life, and will be
a future necessity for today’s youth because of
the routine, monotonous jobs in which most of
them will engage.”~—Dr. Homer P. Rodney, speak-
ing before the Fourth Annual Chicago Recreation
Conference.

“The drama is of all the arts perhaps the most
important and rewarding for neighborhood life.
The awakening of intellectual interest, beauty of
scene and costume, purity of diction, grace of
body, the discipline of ensemble, the group de-
velopment that comes from working together fOr
a common end, combine to make the drama one
of the best mediums for social development.”—
M ory K. Slmkhow'tch in The Settlement Primer.

“Recreation, if it is to accomplish its real pur-
pose, must have a recreative value, a social value
and a creative value. If the individual and the
community are to benefit to the fullest extent,
these three ends must be considered as a whole.

604

About Recreation

Any plan for the utilization of leisure time, there-
fore, must consider these ends and must properly
evaluate them. The whole program for leisure
should be integrated with the community’s needs
and should serve the spiritual, as well as the ma-
terial, needs of the community.”—Philz°p L.
Semen in an address before the Fourth Annual
Chicago Recreation Conference.

“We are not a factory or a construction gang.
W e are dealing not with tangible things but with
spiritual forces. Our results are counted not in
yards of earth nor thousands of bricks nor in
dollars banked. We are engaged in building char-
acter into the very warp and woof of our citi-
zenry. We are not merely teaching people how to
play; we are taking their hours of leisure and
manufacturing them into worth—whileness.”—
From Our Times.

“Recreation has come to us as the great chal-
lenge. It stands beside the home, the school, and
the church as one of the most profitable areas for
the realization of the ultimate aims of democracy,
namely, a people who will be able to live finely,
expressing themselves as individuals in socially
desirable ways.”-——Pronk 5. Lloyd in The Journal
of Health and Physical Education, June 1938.

“Recreation means the opportunity to experi-
ence those satisfactions which arise from the
dignity of work, from joy in play, from apprecia-
tion of beauty in art, drama, literature and music;
from a love and understanding of the world

around us, from the pleasures that arise in the

pursuit of some special interest, and from the
happiness that comes through fine human rela-
tionships in work, play and other activities.”—
Eduard C. Lindemoh, at the Fourth Annual Chi—
cago Recreation Conference, November 21, 1938.

“In the intefests of democracy we must not
depend on regimented recreation for the people
of this country. We must find as many different
ways as we can for the development of individual
personality, and more satisfactory ways than we
have at present for the use of leisure time. In
recreation there lie as important values as in any

(Continued on page 631)

Hatchet and Cherry Blossoms

HEN IT COMES to thinking up new party
W ideas it seems a little too bad that the sym—

bols for important events do not change
every year so we might have something different
to work on. . . . No, we are only joking. We
wouldn’t have it so even if it were possible. For
the cherry tree and the hatchet rightfully belong
to George Washington just as the log cabin and
the split rail belong .to Abe Lincoln and Santa
Claus to Christmas, and hearts and flowers to
Valentine’s day, and fire crackers to the Fourth
of July.

Perhaps you have been overworking the twelfth
and fourteenth of February these past few years.
If so, how about holding your party over a few
days this year and having it on the twenty—second
in honor of that southern colonial gentleman who
hacked down a cherry tree and became the first
president of our country?

You needn’t spend much time trying to decide
what kind of George Washington party to have
because no matter how long you consider, it
always boils down to one of three choices: (I) for
a jolly good time you will have a party whose
theme is the hatchet and cherry tree; (2) for an
historic appreciation and good entertainment you
will have a purely patriotic party; (3) and for
dignity and atmosphere you will have a colonial
cotillion. If you have a feeling that any one of
these would cramp your style, then make it a
combination !

Cherry Blossom Party

Whether you believe the “I cannot tell a lie”
story doesn’t matter. At least it has provided us
With the cherry tree and the hatchet, the most
novel of themes for George Washington day
parties. This is the simplest kind of party to give
and usually the most fun, too. Invitations should
be written on brown paper hatchets in little—boy

scrawl, as follows:
This is the truth, so help me
I cannot tell a lie,
I want you at my party

To help eat cherry pie.
Time . . . . . . . . . . . . Place . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The guests need not come in costume, although
there may be one “Martha” and “George,” prob—

 

ably the host and hostess. Cherry earrings made
with cranberries and thin wires may be given out
to the girls, and cherry boutonnieres to the boys.
Paper caps with painted cherries might also be
used.

Decorations are easy. You can make hatchets,
cherries, and even artificial cherry blossoms out
of crepe paper. Barricini’s candy cherries are not
expensive, but cranberries may be used as substi-
tutes if desired.

Naturally, cherry pie deserves a conspicuous
place on the menu, but sometimes cherry jello is
used instead. Or you might bake a cake in the
shape of a log and cover it with roughish choco-
late frosting to give the appearance of a tree.
Place a cluster of candy cherries on one end of
it to help get the idea across, and then cut it with
some kind of a novelty hatchet.

Any of the following games are appropriate for
such a party:

Snatch the Hatchet. Line up the boys on one
side and the same number of girls on the other so
they are facing each other. Fasten a hatchet made
of light wood or cardboard into something for a
base so that it will stand up. The guests in each
line number from one to ten (or whatever the
number happens to be). Be sure and number
from opposite ends so that number one stands
opposite number ten, etc. The leader calls out a
number such as “Number Three,” and both Num—
ber Three’s grab for the hatchet. Each one who
succeeds in snatching the hatchet scores a point

for his or her line.

Cherry Race. Each player in turn puts his hand
palm down into a large bowl of cherries (cran-

berries may be used here), taking as many as
possible on the back of his hand. Then he must

run (not walk) to the end of the room with them.
The one who carries the most on the back of his

hand is the winner.

Hatchet Hunt. Hide small paper hatchets about
the room and have the guests look for them. Give
a prize to the one who finds the most.

Blowing Cherries. Stretch a string across the
floor, dividing it into two fields, the girls on one
side and the boys on the other. A giant cherry

605

606 HATCHET AND CHERRY BLOSSOMS

(large rubber balloon, inflated) is thrown to the
ceiling in the center of the room. When it comes
down, each side blows it around, trying to make it
touch either an opponent or the floor on the op-
posite side of the line. Nobody may step. over the
line nor touch the balloon nor be touched by it,
or it goes to the opposite side. The side who suc-
ceeds in getting it across the line puts the cherry
into their basket and another is tossed into the air.
The side which first gathers ten “cherries” wins.

Nothing But the Truth. Guests form a circle,
girls and men alternating. “It” in the center
swings around unexpectedly and points an ac-
cusing finger at somebody in the ring, snapping in
a stern voice, “Who did it ?” The flustered player
must immediately notice whether “It” is pointing
with his right or left hand. If with the right, he
must say, “I cannot tell a lie. So—and-so did it,”
mentioning as the culprit the player who stands
on his right. If the left hand is pointing, he must
blame the whole thing on his left-hand neighbor.
In either case he must act before “It” counts ten.
The idea is to get the players so rattled that the
smartest of them cannot remember his left hand
from his right nor the names of friends he went
to school with. Those who fail to tell right from
left or to answer before the count of ten are
penalized by being called upon for forfeits—
either to tell a true “hatchet” story, an account of
some time when they “got it in the neck” or to
pronounce the famous sentence, “Father, I can-
not tell a lie, I did it with my little hatchet” thir-
teen times, each time emphasizing a different
word and striking a different melodramatic attitude.

A Purely Patriotic Party

The birthday of the nation’s greatest heroes
cannot help but inspire thoughts of patriotism. If
this theme is to be carried out in your party, you
should begin by writing the invitations on small
paper American flags. Or you may use white
cards with flag-seals or tiny crests in red, white
and blue. Two tiny crossed American flags would

be attractive and easy to paint. At any rate, your
invitation should read something like this:

For the good old U. S. A.
And Mister Washington
We’re celebrating on his day
And we want you to come.

Time . . . . . . . . . . . . Place . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

If the guests wish, they may devise some kind

of red, white and blue costumes but this is not -

necessary. However, they should be provided with

Uncle Sam hats, red, white and blue boutonnieres,
or tiny flags.

Here again decorations will not require much
thought. Flags and bunting, or red, white’ and
blue crepe paper are all that’s needed to make a
room look as patriotic as Uncle Sam himself.
Tables should also be decorated in patriotic colors
and designs; and for a patriotic snack you can
have tomato—jelly salad, sandwiches cut in the
shape of stars, and cakes with icing put on in
stripes.

For a patriotic party a few games to test one’s
knowledge of American history will not be amiss.

Picture Gallery of Presidents. Arrange pictures
of presidents of the United States around the
room, numbering each one. Pass out cards and
pencils, and give a prize to the one who knows the
most presidents.

Our Flag. Give a prize to the person who knows
the most correct answers to the following

questions :

How many stars in the flag?. . .Forty-eight
How many stripes in the flagi’. .Thirteen
What do the stripes represent ? . .Thirteen original colonies
Are there more red or white
stripes? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Red
How many stripes ofeach color?.Seven red, six white
Which star does your State
represent? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second from the left in
the first row
What do the stars representP. .Forty-eight states
Who made the first flag? . . . . . .Betsy Ross
In the navy what is the mean-
ing of a flag upside down?. .Distress
Where was the first flag madei’. Philadelphia
What is the meaning of the
flag at half mast? . . . . . . . . . .Death

Our Nation. The guests are handed paper and
pencils and told to fill in the word—-—part of which
is nation—which will appropriately fit into the

following statements :

1. “Heaven’s My Destination.”

. His actions need no explanation.

. The assassination of Lincoln was most unfortunate.
The nomination was unanimous.

Children live in their imagination.

He was filled with consternation at the sight.
His choice showed great discrimination.

The Red Cross would appreciate a donation.

. Character and personality are a fine combination.
10. He accepted the verdict with resignation.

11. Those who succeed must have determination.

12. She stamped her foot in indignation.

WWNQMPWN

Paul Revere Relay Race. The group divides into
sides forming separate lines. The leader of each
side is given a broomstick to ride and a toy lan-

HATCHET AND CHERRY BLOSSOMS 607

tern to carry. He must rush down his line rap—
ping each person on the head and shouting, “Wake
up, the Red Coats are coming!” Then, handing
his lantern to the last player in line, he takes his
place while that player becomes Paul Revere. The
side who first gets the original Paul Revere at the
head of the line wins. The prize may be a'toy
lantern filled with red, white and blue wrapped
candies.

Cornwallis and Washington. Players are divided
into two groups, each with a general who “ma-
noeuvres” his “men,” selecting those best suited
to the type of characteristic called out by the
leader, as for instance, “the tallest man,” “best
looking girl,” etc. The leader may call the same
characteristic as often as he pleases, but each per-
son may be played only once. It is best to set a
time limit of thirty seconds for generals to decide
which of their group to play. At the end of this
time the leader blows a whistle and entries must
be sent to the center to be judged. Have one
judge who can act quickly. The army who sends
the person best suited to the characteristic wins
the battle, and the one winning the most battles
wins the war. ‘

Patriotic Charades. Charades are older than the
Revolution itself, but they are always fun. At this
party you can act out different colonial events
such as Washington taking command under the
Washington Elm, Washington at Valley Forge,
crossing the Delaware, throwing a half dollar
across the Potomac, giving his Farewell Address,
lighting at Bunker Hill, and Betsy Ross making
the flag. To make the game more difficult, do not
speak or use any properties. Perform by panto-
mime only. ,

If you want to make things really patriotically
difficult you might give a prize to the one who
can repeat the most of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and demand forfeits from those who
remember the least of that famous speech.

A Colonial Cotillion

The nice thing about a colonial party is that it
may be as simple or as elaborate as desired. If
done up properly it would be a good deal more
expensive than the others, but with skillful man—
agement and a few of Grandma’s old nightgowns
to make over into Martha Washington costumes,
it is possible to give a delightful colonial party at
very little expense. It is best when planned for a
large group, perhaps a combination of church

groups, school children, or playground boys and
girls. Such an elegant affair deserves a suitable
place—the high school gymnasium, church base-
ment, or playground field house. Again, let your
invitations set the tone of your party by writing
them in flowing script that looks old-fashioned,
on white cards with a tiny crest or a George and
Martha Washington silhouette. They might read
something like this:

We wish the honor of your presence
At a grand colonial ball,
’Twill be quite a merry occasion,
So come in costume, wig and all.
Time . . . . . . . . . . .. Place . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Girls should try to imitate a Martha Washing—
ton costume, wearing kerchiefs and dresses with
tight bodice and full skirts. Boys should wear
knee breeches, hose, and slippers with buckles on
them—also lace ruffles on their coat sleeves. The
costumes need not be too elaborate; they may be
easily improvised. Some of them perhaps can be
made from your old organdie afternoon dresses
of two or three summers ago, and prizes should
be given for the best costumes. Frilly paper ker-
chiefs, nosegays, and cotton curls might be pro—
vided for the guests.

Decorations should be in the old colonial style,
with pictures of Martha and George Washington
hung on the walls and soft, blue and gray lights
reflected on them. Blue-gray cotton or flannel
curtains may be used as a background, and can—
delabras with white and blue candles would be
effective. You might have large mirrors hung
around the walls to reflect the candle-light and the
costumes.

Old-fashioned, home-made cookies and punch
might be served.

No colonial party, however simple, is quite so
successful without an opening grand march and
the master of ceremonies. As its name suggests.
the cotillion should also include other dancing, for
this pleasure was not neglected by the grand old
colonial dames, nor indeed by Mr. and Mrs.
Washington themselves. There might be a min—
uet as a special feature, and certainly the party
cannot close without the Virginia Reel.

1f games are needed, here are a few that would
not be unappropriate in a colonial atmosphere:

Washington Curtsy. Have three men stand about
ten feet apart so that they form a triangle. Place
a tricornered hat on one of them who will be
“Washington.” Place a girl in the center of the

(Continued on page 632)

Cutting the Cloth to Fit the Pattern

A superintendent of recreation defines some
of the limitations placed on executives in
the development of their recreation programs

N IDEAL recreation depart-
ment is one that meets the
needs of the community by

offering, or seeing to it that there
is offered, a program that covers the entire field
of leisure-time activity. As this ideal state will
never exist, the director must attempt to put into
effect a program that can be carried on with the
limitations that are placed upon him.

There are a great many of these limitations, but
the three principal ones seem to be facilities,
finances, and leadership. Because of these limita-
tions it is not possible to achieve many of the de-
sirable activities; consequently the director must
decide which are to be included and which Omit-
ted. In’ deciding the question a plan or basis
should be established in the determining ‘of his
choice.

First consider facilities. It is not possible to
carry on activities unless there is available ’space
or an area in which to work. If none can be
found, forget that
activity at least
until the available
space or area can
be provided. You
may find that you
have facilities that,
are suited for a
great many activi-
ties, but in the dis-
tribution of these
a time element en-

may sometimes be 
solved by the use
of natural hills Ti
and vacant lots!

608

By G. M. PHELAN

Superintendent of Recreation
Kenosha, Wisconsin

ters in that would prevent you
from sponsoring all the desirable
ones. In this case you will have
to consider other standards of
measurements in determining your choice.

The following considerations are not given in
the order of their importance but should be taken
into account.

Consider first the possible number of partici-
pants or those who may take part. Second, is
there any similar activity being conducted by an-
other grOUp that may be available? Third, what
are the values of this particular activity from a
social or character-building standpoint? Is it a
passing fancy here today and forgotten tomor-
row? Next, is it interesting to watch or would
spectators be interested in this particular activity,
and can you afford it? And, finally, have you the
good leadership available?

(Continued on page 632)

 

 

 

Card Playing in the Modern Recreation Program

FTER FIVE and one half
A years of experience in
conducting community
game rooms, we are con-
vinced that the value of cards
in our modern recreation has been almost com—
pletely overlooked. When we read recreation re-
ports from departments all over the country we
find much space and high praise devoted to so-
called cultural arts, but it is quite evident that the
majority of our recreation heads frown on the
lowly game room as a desirable form of recreation.
Yet anyone who has watched the growth in
Boston of game room for cards, checkers, chess,
and table tennis, cannot help but realize that this
form of recreation makes a definite contribution
to the daily lives of our
community people. There is,
perhaps, no other phase of
recreation that has the gen-
eral appeal to all age groups
and to people from all walks
of life.

Mr. James V. Mulhol-
land, in his article in the
October issue of RECREA-
TION, says, “Boston, for ex-
ample, with eighteen card
rooms is reported to have

By GORDON L. NORTON
Supervisor. Community Games Division

Adqu Recreation Project. WPA

BostonI Massachusetts

In an article appearing in the October issue
of Recreation under the title "A New Deal
for Cards." James V. Mulholland expressed
the opinion that in the matter of card play-
ing "many of us recreation workers haven't
played our hands to the fullest extent."
Mr. Mulholland's opinion finds corrobora-
tion in this article. Mr. Norton's experience
as Supervisor of the Game Room Division
conducted by the Adult Recreation Project,

WPA. Boston' has given him an unusual op-
portunity to pass on the value of card
playing as a part of the recreation program. our last contract bridge

had considerable success with
room, inter-room and city-
wide tournaments.” It is true
that we have had remarkable
success with card tourna-
ments, but this success is not nearly so important
as that enjoyed by having members of the com-
munity gather in the rooms night after night to
play cards for the love of the game and for the
recreation that it offers, rather than the competi-
tive appeal engendered by tournaments.- Consid-
ering the large following of card players that
visit our rooms daily, we might list our tourna-
ments as complete failures.

To illustrate this point, during the past year,
our rooms have entertained over twenty thousand
different individuals. Less
than five percent of these
people knew anything about
card games. The others had
some knowledge of at least
one card game, and in the
majority, they were quite
proficient; at the game they
chose. Out of the thousands
who play contract bridge we
had an attendance of only
one hundred and four in

609

610 , CARD PLAYING IN THE MODERN RECREATION PROGRAM

tournament. This would seem to indicate that al—
though they enjoy card playing, they are not in-
terested in competition. This fact is more signifi-
cant when we realize that from ten o’clock in the
morning until ten, and in some instances eleven
o’clock in the evening, card games are in progress
in some game room 'in the city.

Our daily average runs around 1,242 individual
participants for the eighteen rooms, or sixty-nine
players per room. And yet there were only I44
players at our largest tournament. Doesn’t this
seem to indicate that the large majority of card
players prefer to enjoy their favorite game with-
out the restrictions of tournament rules?

We have had far greater success in organizing
contract bridge groups. One evening a week is
set aside for the followers of this fascinating
pastime. The following procedure is at present
being used in thirteen of our game rooms with
excellent results:

The groups are not organized as classes, but
one period of the evening is devoted to instruc-
tions. The instructor usually gives a half-hour
lecture, using a blackboard to illustrate points, and
then devotes the rest of the evening to play.
While the games are in prog-
ress he visits the tables and
answers questions that are
puzzling the players. He acts
as instructor, host, and pub-
lic relations man, and during
the course of an evening, he
makes certain that every per-
son in the group has met
every other person present. When partners lose
interest in playing with each other, it is his job
to provide new partners. When husband and
wife object to each other as partners, that is his
problem, too!

Although contract bridge leads in city-wide ap-
peal, other games are more popular in certain com-
munities. Strange to say, each community has its
own favorite game—one game that is more p0pu-
lar than the rest. In Roxbury, among the Irish
lads, pinochle takes the lead, and it is the favorite
game of the Negro population in our Outer South
End. Bid whist follows the lead of pinochle
among the Negro players and contract bridge is
now running a clbse third among them. In the
Italian sections of East Boston, rummy leads the
race and cribbage predominates in Jamaica Plain.
The Jewish groups are in the large majority
bridge fans. Although all of these games are

playing a

Anyone desiring it may secure tree of
charge from the Association of Playing
Card ManufacturersI

Avenue. New York City. a capy of The
Official Rules of Card Games (Hoyle
up-to-clate). containing directions for

arge number of card games.

played in every room, each has its own favorite.

We have been unable to determine the reason
for this favoritism in the various groups. Whether
it is due to racial inclinations, home surroundings,
or just “happenstance” is still uncertain. This
we do know: that card games give us one of the
most convenient means of bringing neighborhood
people together for an evening of fun. They re-
quire less supervision, less planning, and are per-
haps the most inexpensive form of group adult
play available.

The field is a cosmopolitan one, giving enjoy-
ment to people from all walks of life. Among the
professional people who visit our rooms are_
prominent doctors, lawyers, dentists and leaders
in the field of education. Others are salesmen,

«chauffeurs, office workers, laborers, tradesmen,

housewives, maids, waitresses, and even recrea-
tion workers. In the game room the barriers are
down and the groups join in the spirit of fun
unconscious of their class distinctions. Chamber-
maids play cards with doctors, and‘never hesitate
in censuring their opponents or partners for trans-

lgressing the laws of the game; waitresses feel

free to claim the revokes on those who profess to
know the law; the so—called
meek housewife rises in her
might and demonstrates that
taking care of babies is not
her ony accomplishment.
Consider this as compared
to other forms of non-physi-
cal recreation, and name one
that has a more general ap-
peal. Drama' draws from all walks of life but is
limited to those who are interested in play acting,
stage craft, or playwriting; the orchestra-“appeals

to those who are musically inclined;marts and
crafts to those who wish to use their hands in
making useful articles for the home or for sale.
The game room, with its large variety of card
games, chess, checkers and table tennis, appeals to
the whole community because it is a place to play.

Recreation leaders who frown upon card games
are overlooking a valuable avenue for building up
the attendance in other activities. Through the
general appeal of these games, many people are
attracted to our centers who would not otherwise
visit them. Once they are in the groups. their
interest may be directed to other activities that
are more in accord With the leader’s own inclina-

(Continued on page 633)

420 Lexington

HATEVER may be
done to improve
the material
standards of living will
be handicapped and
will not come to the

Giving Joy to Lite

Extracts from presidential address
given by Dwight Sanderson, American
Country Life Association, reprinted

from "Rural America," December l938

made a short trip by
motor through the
highlands of Virginia.
Eastern Tennessee and
Western North Caro-
lina. I went into some

best fruition if means
are not taken to bring more joy into rural life.
This may be promoted through better recreation
and the encouragement of appreciation of the
beautiful. Time permits only a mention of this
phase of our problem, but I cannot neglect calling
attention to it, or it may be lost sight of in our
subsequent discussions.

Life is drab without some fun and without
wholesome social contacts. Healthy amusement is
an antidote and preventive for many of the ills of
humanity, whatever its social or economic status.
Recreation and social life need not involve ex-
pense and are within the reach of all if there be
some leadership. The school, the church, and the
extension service have an opportunity and an obli-
gation to train this leadership in programs of
simple and enjoyable forms of recreation and
social life.

And life is sordid where there is no apprecia-
tion of beauty. The house with a few dahlias in
the yard, or red geraniums in the window, with a
few shrubs and a little green
lawn, is thereby labelled as a
better home. Last summer I

 

"The people who have a little music
in their lives are thereby given a
source of enjoyment and strength."

out-of-the-way places
and visited some places which I had not seen for
forty years. The'one thing which gave me most
satisfaction, and which is doubtless in part due to
the penetration of good roads, was the improve-
ment in the home grounds. Village yards were
attractively landscaped, and many a humble moun-
tain cabin had flowers and shrubs, and the ve—
randa shaded by trumpet-vine or moon-vine. The
very definite increase in the love of beautiful sur-
rOUndings, however simple and inexpensive, is a
notable advance in our rural culture in recent
years.

The people who have a little music in their lives
are thereby given a source of strength and enjoy-
ment, and this is native to some of the disadvan-
taged rural classes. Is it not remarkable that the
only distinctive American music has come from
the Negro folk songs, the ballads of the Moun-
taineers, and the songs of the Western cowboys;
from the work songs of the common people?

So in any program for improving the life of the
disadvantaged classes consider-
ation should be given not only

(Continued on page 634)

Ciiiirtesy WPA, Des: Moines, Iowa

6i 1

The Planning of [School Grounds

for

School and Community Use

test, the School Board

in a small, growing com-
munity on Long Island pur-
chased at a reasonable price
a ten-acre tract of land as a
site for a future elementary
school. The land, irregular
in shape and rough in to-
pography, was located in the “wilderness” on the
outskirts of the town. Today, ten years later, the
“wilderness” has vanished and in its place there
is a substantial residential community. Highest
praise has replaced the bitter protest—praise for
the courage and foresight of those responsible for
the acquisition of a school site ideally located, as
well as of sufficient size for the deve10pment of
adequate facilities, particularly since the cost of
the land would be prohibitive today.

I N 1928, despite bitter pro-

The present School Board, like its predecessor,
believes in careful planning. It feels that the
school is more than an institution for instruction
during a few hours of the day. It believes in the
wide community use of the school and its facili-
ties both inside and out, and feels that the School
Board has a definite responsibility to provide rec-
reation opportunities where few exist.

The school building is now in the process of
construction and will be completed for the open-
ing of school next fall. The National Recreation
Association has cooperated with the School Board
in preparing a study for the development of
the school grounds for the physical educational
program of the school and for a program of rec-
reation for the community. While the plan indi-
cates facilities for football, soccer, and other
sports not applicable to children of elementary
school age, it should be borne in mind that such
facilities are necessary as a part of the community
recreation use of the area.

612

A problem in functional design
which many cities are facing
in their recreational planning

By F. ELLWOOD ALLEN
National Recreation Association

The Plan Analyzed

Variations in elevation of
twenty feet from the east
to the west ends of the
property and the grade of
the existing boundary streets
already established present-
ed an interesting problem
in relating areas to topogra-
phy. Economy in grading necessitated the divi-
sion of the property into three distinct levels. The
first level, in the immediate vicinity of the school
building, contains such facilities as the kindergar-
ten playground, apparatus area for small children,
a hard-surfaced, multiple-use area for various
types of activities, parking space, lawn area, and
a small garden. The second level, approximately
eight feet below the upper level, provides for an
athletic field, correctly oriented. 'A further drop
of approximately five feet was necessary in es-
tablishing the grade of the third level. This level
is more informal in character and provides an
open area for a variety of additional facilities.
Because of existing trees on the south bank of
this level, a small informal park has been intro-
duced. The slopes separating the three levels are
to be planted solidly with shrubbery to reduce
maintenance costs and to establish definite
boundaries.

From an aesthetic point of view the division
into three levels is very pleasing; from a func-
tional point of view it is extremely valuable.
Functional design provides for the most efficient
and economic use of space. It is an essential
problem in the landscape development of an area
and must take into consideration the broad con-
cepts of recreation and physical.education with
the related problems of leadership, programs,
budgets and maintenance.

The upper level of the area contains facilities
for those activities which require closer super-

613

- (N! E s5... 9......“

THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS

.m0m+_>m+00 _0co_+00._00._ +0 >+0t0> 01E 0 >070 0+ 00:0;0 0 3238800 0.: 03m
:3, 1:0 _00c_3 0.: cm 5:00:10 .3130 *0 «E0505 100.5 00* m0_+_::._.._0n_n_0
..0¢0 E3 .: .m0:_0> 3.0005 9.10085 cm +00¢0 101301 0 0>0._ 1—321 .10£0+
-cm0E 1:0 10m_>._0n_:m 2.0005 0; £01 «I... E 100530 m_ «0 20.002961 0 :05

moZDOmO ..OOIOm “.0 mmD-m._n_:.._D_>_ mI._. m0“. 241?. <

 

\snh\u. xka . \(IV‘
t°\|hQ\.VOh-u|‘ .20sF‘NQUNAK - itkOFhQ“

      

LNQL. H QQUhI

{No.5 .LKKQQVKEQU .120 . 10030.3

. 2.0x . mdmxb 006 . Sun‘th XQWRENEM NM
.03. . khhtoxo Eth

 

      

         
           

 

UZT‘QE

q .0. .

 

      

       

l grill-n

\. 95.an 0" Ohio

I. .. .1“! .. 
. . ...uuu). u. .. l u 

 

.  .../“aw

a

a....... .u o. . . - .I r

. .. ... .. .  ... a....u..\\\\..
. . . . .- ......
—

 

I-
4“. .
\h 4 e as .. u
.
.n
. .35... Q .06. Mount... Git! .. .
p o-
. a. , u...
. . .. . n laou )3... {all ....
In a O
I I a II
\I . I . . .
v . .a u . o a . H ..
II‘ I it In. "a
. .. . .
. . n . o. .
. a

 

In to?

 

w .
Hutu-09 1:3..le Ian! . c

 

 

. . . . ..~ . . . . ......G\ I..
. .\\ . .. . .. . .. 
. . . @005:qu .QNQQQ   \
. . . . . . . with}. 
c I .ELS .
l I. I I I - o'nld %
I . . a. ......o.
. . . . .... ... %

     

W . . . . . . . u
I» . .. ... .. . . . . _. .
_, . . o... .... . r u . a
, . . s. .. . . .. . .. .
. . ".. . .I a o . I. t u
0§00kuxtak .. . .
. . . . . . . c a
o. . {MLSQNQ . . ..
n I ‘ I

,
o
. fm. .-
.1 ,. ... a
..\
r .

 

_—_

614 THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS

vision such as the kindergarten playground, the
apparatus area, and the hard-surfaced multiple-
use area. French doors in the kindergarten room
lead directly into the play area. Actually, the
playground is merely a kindergarten room out of
doors. There is an open lawn for informal games,
a sand box in partial shade, a small wading pool
and shelter, and a few pieces of standard ap-
paratus. The playground is completely enclosed
by a chain link fence for protection, and by a
shrubbery border for screen and aesthetic pur-
poses. A gate on the north side of the area af-
fords an opportunity for the use of the kinder-
garten playground after school hours. Thus it
becomes a play-lot, or a substitute for the back-
yard playground.

The apparatus area is also completely fenced
and planted. It is of hard-surfaced construction
and contains playground apparatus such as a jun-
glegym, slides, seesaws, and swings. Between
these two areas a small garden has been intro-
duced not only for its aesthetic value but also in
connection with the gardening and nature work
of the school. It also acts as a transition between

the two areas.

Multiple-Use

The multiple-use area is one of the interesting
features of the design. Multiple use is an in-
tegral part of functional design. It is the adapta-
tion of a facility to several uses to meet the
requirements of the wide range of physical edu-
cation and recreation activities. Of hard-surfaced
construction the multiple-use area serves a variety
of purposes. Game courts can be painted on the
surface and portable standards used to support
nets. When not in use for active games it can be
transformed into a roller skating rink, and for
social dancing. During the winter it can be
sprayed and used for ice skating. In connection
with evening activities in the auditorium of the
school it can be used as an emergency parking
area. Such an area is very valuable in any school
or playground program. When the turf areas
are soggy and wet, the hard—surfaced area is avail-
able for active use. Because of its cOncentrated
use, it is essential that this area be located near
the point of control. After school hours it also
becomes a center of activity and can be used both
by children and adults.

The Upper Playfield
The second level has been designated as the

upper playlield. The direct approach is by means
of ramps. From the standpoint of physical edu-
cation it becomes the outdoor gymnasium for boys
and girls during school hours. It is provided with
facilities for after-school recreational use. The
area is of sufficient size for laying out a regula-
tion football field adaptable to all of the varia-
tions of the game, for soccer, field hockey and
for many types of organized games. Two soft-
ball diamonds with sixty foot base lines can be
used simultaneously without interfering with each
other. At the southeast corner of the held two
handball courts have been suggested. Space is
available for bleachers if desirable, although the
field has been designed primarily for participants.

The Third Lever

The third level is the lower playfield which also
contains two softball diamonds with forty-five
foot base lines. Two standard tennis courts,
horseshoe courts and a lawn area for all types of
informal games have also been provided. The
tennis and horseshoe courts, While not necessarily
a part of the physical education program of the
school, are an essential factor in a playground of
this type.

Beauty has been combined with utility in the
entire landscape development of the area by the
judicious use of trees and shrubs. The problems
of supervision and maintenance have been corre-
lated throughout the design. '

“The modern school should be a community
school. . . . In the shops adults, as well as youths,
working together or separately, should enjoy new
experiences and acquire new skills. . . . The gym—
nasium facilities, including locker and shower
spaces, should be planned not only in terms of the
requirements of basketball, but also with due re-
gard to the requirements of games adults like to
play. The school auditorium should not be merely
a place where citizens come to listen, as its name
implies, but a place in which adults constantly
participate in all activities associated with stage
productions of their own, in forum discussions of
important current issues, and in experiences lead-
ing toward higher appreciation and greater skills
in the fine arts. A school adapted to meet present-
day community needs can be developed adequately
only as new criteria of planning are recognized,
and faulty, traditional concepts of planning are

discarded.”—N. L. Engelhardt.

   


5’3
.
   ----  ».

GEORGE HJELTE

GEORGE HJELTE, First Vice-
President of the Society of
Recreation Workers of.
America, is Superintendent
of the Department of Play-
ground and Recreation, Los
Angeles, California. He
served for a number of years
as Superintendent of the
Westchester County, New
York, Recreation Commis-
sion.

ARTHUR T. NOREN as Secre-
tary of the new Society is
carrying heavy responsibility.
He is Superintendent of Rec-
reation in Elizabeth, New
Jersey, and is also teaching
in the Department of Phy-
sical Education and Health
at New York University

ARTHUR T. NOREN

 

  

Otticers

ot the

Society
of

Recreation

Workers

0t America

V. K. BROWN

The President of the Society
of Recreation Workers of
America is V. K. BROWN, Di-
rector of Recreation, Chicago
Park District. In May, 1934,
when the twenty-two park dis-
tricts of the city were consoli-
dated Mr. Brown, who had been
in charge of activities at South
Park, assumed the task of ad-
ministering recreation for the
entire Park District.

 

 

DOROTHY c. ENDERIS

Miss DOROTHY C. ENDERIS,
Second Vice-President of
the Society, is widely known
for the work she has car-
ried on over a long period of
years in Milwaukee, Wis—
consin, where she is in charge
of the Department of Mu—
nicipal Recreation and Adult
Education, Milwaukee Pub-
lic Schools.

Formerly Superintendent of
Recreation at Des Moines,
Iowa, LEWIS R. BARRETT is
now Coordinator and Execu-
tive Secretary, District of
Columbia Recreation Com-
mittee, Washington, D. C.
He is serving as Treasurer
of‘the Society of Recreation
Workers of America.

LEWIS R. BARRETT

 

 

 

Hartford

N OPEN AIR reproduction of the Nativity of
A Christ was the outstanding feature of this
year’s municipal observance of Christmas in
Hartford. Set in the hillside of historic Bushnell
Park, it was a magnificent spectacle of twenty-two
life size figures grouped around a replica of the
Bethlehem stable. Remarkable in the perfection of
minute detail, natural and appealing in color, au-
thentic in adherence to history, it was an impres-
sive sight, particularly from dusk to dawn when a
battery of spotlights illuminated it in soft shades
of midnight blue and amber.

Throughout the hours of day and night from
December 20th to January 2nd, long lines of
townsfolk and visitors—more than half a million
of them—passed before the scene. Words of
praise were on everyone’s lips. Newspapers de—
voted columns of space and pictures to it, and
city ofhcials were enthusiastic. Clergymen used
it to illustrate their sermons on the century-old
Christmas message of “Peace on earth, good will
to men.”

Aside from artistic considerations, it was a not-
able achievement which might well stand as a
symbol of the united efforts of municipality, Fed-
eral government, and private industry in a com-
munity service which merits serious attention of
park and recreation officials.

Preliminary Planning

The idea for the Nativity scene had its incep-
tion last August in the mind of J. H. Dillon, Di-
rector of Recreation for the Board of Park Com—
missioners. Mr. Dillon, in planning the observ—
ance, wanted something that would be a change

616

Celebrates Christmas—

from the customary municipal Christmas tree
program and which would be more lasting in
nature and more picturesquer symbolic of the
Yuletide. An outdoor reproduction of Christ’s
Nativity was his selection, and he soon took steps
to enlist the cooperation of local agencies and in-
sure their participation. From the outset he had
the wholehearted support of George H. Hollis-
ter, Superintendent of Parks, who gave impetus
to the movement in its final stages by offering a
site in Bushnell Park.

In launching his plan, Mr. Dillon obtained the
approval and assistance of WPA and its Federal
Art Project, the city of Hartford and its Board
of Aldermen, and of private persons through the
corporate body of the Hartford Electric Light
Company. Through the cooperation of these
groups he was able to arrange the necessary
financing through the WPA with the alder—
manic Amusements Committee, which annually is
in charge of the city’s Christmas program, assum-
ing the role pf sponsor and 'making the sponsor’s
contribution. " It assured him the services of tal-
ented artists- from the Federal Art Project, the
money, labor and materials for the undertaking,
and the technical staff of the lighting company,
which assigned its lighting engineer, Wilbert D.
Gorman, to the task of designing and installing
the system of illumination, as well as furnishing
without cost all electrical current that was needed.

The Location

Superintendent Hollister’s choice of Bushnell
Park was admirable and singularly htting, for
Bushnell holds a place of distinction and honor

 

And the Nativity Is Presented

among American parks as it was the first in the
United States to be purchased, back in 1853, with
the proceeds of public taxation. Furthermore, it
had natural advantages unexcelled and unequalled.
Near the heart of the business district of Hart-
ford, it was the north lawn of the State Capitol

and in the direct line of vision of thousands of .

pedestrians and motor vehicles that daily pass
along Asylum Street, one of the city’s principal
thoroughfares. In addition, it was the first sight
to greet the eye of a traveler alighting at the
Union Station, and in full View of every passing
train on one of the main lines of the New Haven
Railroad. It was, too, so situated that vehicular
traffic could not approach near it, thus eliminating
problems of congestion, and it can be reached
only by foot for a close-up view.

The Artists Go to Work

M r. Dillon’s preliminary plans were complete by
September first, and the way cleared for the proj-
ect, which actually was launched in mid-Septem-
ber when the Federal Art Project assigned six
artists—Theodore Monaghan, Vincent and Ge-
rard Rossi, Walter O. R. Korder, Louis La
Brecque and Nicholas Angelotti—to the creation
of the set. These artists collaborated in drafting
a rough sketch of their visualization of the scene
that transpired 2,000 years ago in the stable out-
side the inn in the foothills of Bethlehem. From
the sketch, Mr. Monaghan, a sculptor, fashioned
a clay model of each figure scaled to life size. The
model was covered with a coating of plaster of
Paris by the Rossi brothers to make a “shell” into
which later was poured another mixture of plas-

By JOHN M. HURLEY
Board of Park Commissioners
Hartford. Connecticut

ter that, when extricated, became an unpainted
figure for the finished set.

As the next step, the model was taken to a
studio in Colt Park, where Mr. Korder. Mr.
Angelotti and Mr. LaBrecque painted it in the
realistic colors that won the commendation of
discerning art Critics and added enormously to the
picturesque setting.

In spite of the comparatively brief period al—
lotted them, the artists completed in record time
the group of twenty-two figures, which were re-
moved to Bushnell Park, the difficult task of
transporting them being accomplished by encasing
them in special cases made from 2 x 4 wood lined
with soft rags and excelsior.

On the evening of Tuesday, December 20, the
Nativity set was formally opened to the public
and illuminated for the first time when Mayor
Thomas J. Spellacy threw the switch that turned
on the electric current. The simple ceremony was
witnessed by city, civic and VVPA officials and a
crowd of a thousand spectators.

It was a magnificent scene, nearly a hundred
feet long and twenty feet high, that was revealed
in clear detail. The stable was the focal point, its
thatched roof of straw surmounting a structure
of stout, unfinished,weather-stained beams flanked
on either side by the natural brownstone face of

(Continued on page 634)
617

Bob Davis Reveals

IME IS ON THE WING.
How many days do you
have to squander before
the curtain falls?

What are your prospects for rubbing elbows
with life between now and eternity?

It is important that you measure with eye and
heart the short gap between today and tomorrow
lest you miss the measure and the strain.

Quite recently in the lounge of a trans-Atlantic
steamer, while attempting to entertain—at their
request—a covey of undergraduates, I mentioned
the fact that in a comparatively short period dur-
ing my travels I had looked upon the highest peaks
of Asia, North America, South America, Africa
and Australia, as well as into the Dead Sea at
Palestine, the lowest point of the earth’s surface,
stressing the fact that between Indo-China and
Alaska, where Mount McKinley keeps cool at
20,464 feet, but eighteen months of time had
elapsed.

“That’s looking at ’em,” remarked one of the
boys, tapping a cigarette on the back of his pa-
trician hand, “but have you seen a model of the
new gearless, stern-drive motor car soon to be
put on the market ?”

Before I could reply that I had never seen
Clark Gable or Robert Taylor or the shrinking
Howard Hughes except on a film, another lad,
spread out like a sport shirt thrown on a chair,
wanted to know whether it had ever been my
privilege to see Donald Budge deliver a backhand
sock at a tennis ball. Another boy took the answer
out of my mouth, and before I could again grab
the conversation, the little company had thrown
my entire range of high mountains and low levels
into the discard and taken up the question of who
would capture wreaths at the Olympiad billed for
Finland in 1940. Fact is, my audience ran out
one at a time, leaving me alone to contemplate the
innocuous and mildewed past.

It wouldn’t have mattered one tinker’s dam to
that flock of electrons had I
summoned them back to hear
that once, in the unforgettable
past, I had seen and heard Ade-
lina Patti sing and Henry Ward
Beecher preach; that I have
known Edward Everett Hale,

618

The art: of growing old with-
out: loss of precious hours

This articleI which appeared in the
December eighth issue of The Sun,
New York City, in the column, "Bob
Davis Reveals." has been reprinted

in Recreation through the cour-
tesy of Mr. Davis and The Sun.

Marion Crawford, Bret Harte,
Mark Twain, and ridden over
a Nebraska prairie on the raw-
hide pommel of Sitting Bull’s
saddle; or that Colonel William F. Cody, in the
dust of 300,000 moving buffalo, rode past our
prairie home on the'banks of the Missouri when
I was a kid. I could have told those upstart col—
lege boys some stories about Geronimo the Apache.
Rain-in-the-Face, Red Cloud, Nana, Chief Joseph
and Yellow Hand that would have kept them
awake the rest of the night. But they were in a
hurry and quit me.

Indeed, had they but known, I could have re-
tailed some surprising first-hand stories about
Thomas Edison, George Bernard Shaw, John L.
Sullivan, Hermann the Great and Sir Henry
Irving, to say nothing of Kalakaua, last King of
the Hawaiian Islands. Then again, I was in Car-
son, Nevada, forty-one years ago come St.
Patrick’s Day when Fitzsimmons took the heavy-
weight championship from Corbett. Yes, and to
make it close to the rail, as they say in billiards,
I was in the next house when Maurice McLaugh-
lin, the “California Comet” of lawn tennis fame,
was born. Maurice was my cousin by marriage.
That would have been something for Donald
Budge’s admirer to hear about. It would require
a little time to hear these things, but there was no
more time left, so it seemed. Hurry! The hours
are gliding by; the clock is cutting coupons with
tireless shears.

Reverie is for those who sit alone. It is much
easier to think without an audience. And so, tak-
ing advantage of the forced isolation, I allowed
myself to drift backward, to appreciate fully the
realization that I had lived in the golden age, and
that whatever the future had to offer, there would
never be another era so productive of progress, or
another transformation in human affairs upon so
vast a scale. During my own lifetime, and in my
own country the air brake, the quadruplex tele-
graph, telephone, talking ma-
chine, linotype and motion pic-
ture mechanism had come into
existence. The submarine, auto-
mobile and airplane appeared in
three successive .years — 1894,

(Continued on page 635)

The Board of Recreation Commissioners

E SHALL take for

granted that a_ board

of recreation is a
lay board, unpaid, and ap-
pointed by the mayor or
city manager, with or without
the approval of city council.

What are the functions of a
board of recreation? A board
of recreation should act as
legislative and not as an executive body. The
board must use good judgment on problems or
proposals as presented either by the superintend-
ent, who is the executive official, or by individuals
or groups from the town or city at large. When
a board makes a decision the execution should
rest with the superintendent. The board has many
other functions such as relating the desires of the
community to the superintendent; acting as a
coordinator between school, park and city plan-
ning boards and other groups; shouldering the
responsibility of securing adequate financial sup-
port; appointing efFicient personnel without re-
gard to politics; providing adequate facilities for a
well rounded recreation program and planning
for the advancement of the recreation movement
in an orderly manner.

The Wise executive will acknowledge the fact
that each board member should have a definite
assignment of work either as a member of a sub-
committee or as an individual. When sub-com-
mittees are appointed by the president of the
board, much time consumed in worthless debate
at board meetings can be avoided. The superin-
tendent may easily call a sub-committee together
to discuss personnel, finance, program or other
problems and the sub-committee will be better
prepared to suggest a solution to the problem
before the whole board.

Board members often have particular hobbies
or represent the school board on the recreation
board. When this is the case, to give a board
member a specific assignment
is quite advantageous. For ex-
ample, school board members
might well have as their as-
signment “the wider use of
school property for recreation
activities.” Members of the

The functions, responsibilities and
possibilities of a recreation board
as viewed by a recreation executive

' By THOMAS W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
ReadingI Pennsylvania

Some of the responsibilities of recrea-
tion boards as seen by a board member
are presented in the April I937 issue
of Recreation in an article by Clyde
Doyle under the title. 'lThe Duties
of a Recreation Board ' Member."

board who are of the same

political faith as those in

power at city hall might

seek the cooperation of

the mayor and city coun-
cil in providing, new play-
grounds, tennis courts or a
larger appropriation of funds.
Another member who may be
interested in a civic club could
seek the aid of his club or the combined civic clubs
in a new venture such as a municipal camp for
children. ,

Other specific objectives for board members
might well be that of stimulating interest in youth
participation, especially among those who have
just graduated from high school; representing the
board at meetings of the leisure time division of
the Council of Social Agencies; seeking ways and
means of creating more interest in the cultural
side of the recreation program.

I.
0

Board Meetings

The meeting of the board of recreation is es-
sentially a most important part of its duties. Every
board should meet at least once a month at a
stated and regular time. Meetings can be held
more often if necessary, but usually lay people who
are members of the recreation board are very
busy people and usually sit upon other boards;
They will respect the plan of monthly meetings
rather than the one of holding meetings every
two weeks or more frequently. A board needs by-
laws to govern its procedure. The superintendent,
after conferring with the president of the board,
should, by all means, send an agenda of the meet-
ing at least a week in advance. This step permits
board members to give some thought to the prob-
lems which are to be discussed. A typical agenda
might read thus:

1. Roll call
2. Reading minutes of last meeting
3. Communications
(a) School Board grants per-
mission to use school play-
grounds this summer
(b) Parents Association re-
quests permission to sell re-
freshments at r playground
during adult baseball games

619

620 THE BOARD OF RECREATION COMMISSIONERS

4. Report of superintendent (should be brief and cover-

ing period of one month)
5. Report of standing committees ,
(a) Personnel—summer playground leaders to be ap-

pointed
(b) Property—new WPA projects to be started

(c) Program—summer playground program.to be

discussed
(d) Finance—financial standing to date

6. Report of special committees
(a) Bond issue committee to report on meeting with
City Planning Commission
7. Election of officers (takes place once each year)

8. Appointments
(a) Summer playground leaders

(b) Lifeguards
(0) Extra maintenance men
(d) Extra office clerks

9. Unfinished business
(a) Discussion on progress of mayor’s special com-
mittee for a free municipal children’s camp

10. New business
(a) Council of Social Agencies wishes board to oper—

ate Community Gardens as recreation project
(b) Local branch, American Federation of Hosiery
Workers, wishes use of travelling theater for one

month
(c) Approval for the purchase of summer play-

ground supplies
(d) Children’s Division, Council of Social Agencies
plans to make study of juvenile delinquency and
requests our assistance
(6) Information on the playground leaders’ two
weeks institute
11. Adjournment.

Records

The minutes of each meeting should be kept
fully and accurately as a permanent record. Al-
though it is the custom for the board to elect one
of its members as secretary, the superintendent
should likewise take copious notes at the board
meeting and confer with the secretary on the
minutes before they are sent to each member of
the board. A copy of the minutes should always
be sent to the mayor to keep him fully informed
on the progress of the board. Board minutes are
often not read at board meetings, but this policy
is not at all good. The minutes of the previous
meeting will insure a continuity of thought on
discussions which may again come to the atten-
tion of the board. By all means keep an accurate
indexed record of all discussions for ready and
easy reference.

First-hand Information

From time to time have members of the super-
vising staff present at board meetings to keep

board members posted on the workers’ particular
part .of the program. For example, in seeking
more funds for maintenance having the supervisor
of maintenance appear at a board meeting will
give members a better insight into his and your
problems. Board members can evaluate the work
of a supervisor by having first hand inforrriation
from him.

Good Politics versus Bad

Most boards of recreation are presumably ap-
pointed Without regard to politics. Yet every
board member, selected by the mayor, has some
political affiliation and perhaps has been active in
party affairs. The wrong kind of politics and an
efficient recreation system do not go hand in hand.
The board member who injects politics into a
board meeting or forces his political views upon
the superintendent does more harm than good.
Newly appointed members active in some politi-
cal party may attempt to coerce the superintendent
into employing some political friends. Here is a
real problem and it requires careful attention.
The superintendent, as the executive officer, must
be the person to determine the qualifications of
the person to be employed and the standards must
be of such a high calibre that a board member
will not try to force an unwelcome person upon
the superintendent. When newly appointed board
members, with political inclinations, understand
that the superintendent interviews each applicant
for a position impartially, using an interview rat-
ing system and requiring college students or
graduates for obs, a different attitude usually re-
sults. An efficiency rating system requiring high
standards among personnel to maintain a high
percentage, will eliminate the problem of politics
to a great degree.

On the other hand, one cannot refrain from
stating that good politics is important to a recrea—
tion system. N o matter who the superintendent is
or where he may be located, he must play good
politics. Any recreation system, be it a part of the
schools or the municipal government, is a part of
a political unit where governing bodies are elected
by the people. In order to accomplish certain
things the superintendent must be a tactful poli—
tician. Perhaps we should say that he should use
indirect methods or leadership to gain his point.
To be more specific, our system of government
works on the “pressure group” principle. A “pres-
sure group” is nothing more than the voice of the

(Continued on page 637)

y, The Will to Endow

exist for making a will.

An individual who has got over the hurdle of
procrastination in this matter and has faced this
responsibility, for such it is, experiences a sense
of deep satisfaction. This is true whether he pos-
sesses little or great wealth. Drawing or redraw—
ing a will, thereby providing for dependents, mak-
ing provision for the institutions which have won
admiration, respect and active support, is to have
discharged an act—in a sense a duty—often not
performed because of that bane of our existence
mentioned above, procrastination.

Our probate and surrogate courts report that
over 70 per cent of estates administered are with-
out wills. This means heavy costs in settling
estates. An hour or so applied to the business of
making a will might have eliminated a great deal
of that cost and would in some cases have avoided
suffering on the part of dependents. It may be

SEVERAL excellent reasons

due to sentiment or sense, but records reveal that‘

more wills are drawn, re-drawn or codicils added
to already existing wills during the months of De-
cember, January and Feerary than during any
other time of the year.

What Can It Mean?

Rabbi Stephen Wise once said, “A will ought
to be the expression of personality,” and he
further implied that the projection of that per-
sonality into the future was a practical and sat—
isfying experience for the individual. An even
greater satisfaction comes to those persons who
go a step farther than the wise act of providing
for their interests in the future. These people,

very sensitive to present-day conditions, experi- ,

ence a second major satisfaction by distributing
portions of their estates
during their own lifetime
and by watching these gifts
at work. The act of draw-
ing a will causes the indi-
vidual still a third satisfac-
tion in that, having thought
through his holdings and
having evaluated his estate,
he becomes a better steward
of his possessions.

By PAULINE R. V. SCHAEDLER

Through the courtesy of the Womans Press
we are permitted to reprint this article
which appeared in the October issue of
the magazine. In order to make the mate-
rial more generally applicable. a few para-
graphs referring specifically to the work of
the Y.W.C.A. have been omitted and the
term "organization" has been substituted
for "Y.W.C.A." We wish to express our
gratitude to the Womans Press for making
it possible for us to use the material.

The Donor’s Problem
The problem that often
confronts a prospective donor either as he gives
directly or through his will is: .

I. Whether he shall give freely to an estab-
lished endowment fund, trusting to the judgment
of its trustees as to how the income from that
gift shall be used

2. Whether he shall follow his own personal
inclination and thereby restrict the use of such
income to a particular phase of the work in which
he is interested

3. Whether he shall give to an organization in
which he is interested a “special gift” to be used
both as to principal and income as revealed by the
needs of the institution and determined by the
wise judgment of its trustees.

In any case the nature of the fund should be
clearly interpreted to the prospective doner.

What Is an Endowment Fund?

There is a great deal of confusion in the use of
this term endowment. According to Mr. Webster,
to endow means “to furnish with a permanent
fund or source of income for support.” A fund
so established is inviolable and should not be used
for any purpose; the income alone may be used.

If for any reason a gift is not to be added to
the permanent endowment of an organization, it
would be well to create a fund of a special nature,
in order to distinguish such gifts from permanent
funds. “Once endowment, always endowment” is
recommended as the only safe and clear rule.

Types of Endowment

There are two types of endowment: restricted
endowment and unrestricted endowment.

I. Restricted endowment
confines the use of the in—
come to purposes designated
by the donor. If a donor
will make a gift only if it
be designated for a particu—
lar purpose, he should be
helped to make that pur-
pose as broad as is consist-
ent with his desire. Many
philanthropists and others

621

622 THE WILL TO ENDOW

deeply concerned with varying aspects of the
business of giving, question the wisdom of re—

stricting a gift for all time.
2. Unrestricted endowment permits the use of
income for the general work of the organization.

Policy for Endowment or Special Funds

Every organization should adopt a policy for the
wise use and investment of any funds left or given
to it. In seeking gifts to such funds it is incum-
bent upon the organization to assist the donor to
a realization of the changes which constantly
come about in the social fabric of each community
and also in the everyday life of an institution.
These call for a continuous appraisal of the in-
stitution’s program and methods of work, for
elasticity of purpose and skills in the adaptation
of its program to the needs of the present day.

Atrend in giving today reveals a desire on the
part of many donors to see the more or less im—
mediate use of their gifts. They feel that this
generation should not usurp the responsibility of
oncoming generations in the matter of facing their
responsibility to human needs, nor should the
present generation condition the future.

Both the principal and the income from
“special” funds may be used at the discretion of
the organization, under proper action by those re-
sponsible. It is, of course, the part of good finan-
cial management to conserve the principal of such
funds for the extraordinary needs of the or—
ganization.

Use of Income from Endowment Funds

The use of the income from endowment or
other funds should be determined most. carefully.
As a rule such income should not be used for
reduction of mortgages. In each instance when
this question arises, the particular situation should
be dealt with on a case basis. Careful analysis of
all the facts should be made and weighed in the
light of the present and the future. Efforts should
be made to reduce mortgages and debts by means
of debt-reduction campaigns. These have been're-
markably successful. Through the latter pro—

cedure the interest and participation of the com- ‘
munlty are secured, the organization is freed vof ,

debt, while at the same time income from a care-

fully invested endowment fund has been'available
for budget requirements“ ' '

The income from endowment f‘should ‘not be

used,for.new_ buildings, unless asrestricted gifts-

to the fund they are so. earmarked. A community

collectively raising" money for a new building Wlll
have a greater interest in the structure and an
attendant sense of responsibility to it through
having shared in its erection.

Reasonable Endowment

It is well to note here that a situation may de-
velop wherein an organization may protect the
future at tremendous cost to present needs. Very
often the fact that an institution possesses a siz-
able permanent endowment precludes the acqui-
sition on its part of additional gifts to such a
fund. The above fact raises the question of the
wisdom of over-endowing any organization.
When the income from an endowment fund is
adequate to meet a reasonable portion of budget
requirements, then it might be considered wise to
center attention at the point of securing gifts for
a “special fund.”

Tax Exemption

The federal and state governments encourage
philanthropic gifts by tax deductions and exemp-
tions. In all probability if more people of wealth
were well informed on this point, their gifts and
legacies to philanthropy would be increased rather
than lessened. According to Estate and Tax
News: “The Revenue Act of 1936 and corre—
sponding sections of prior statutes permit indi—
viduals to deduct from gross income, contribu-
tions or gifts made during the taxable year to a
corporation, association, trust or foundation, or-
ganized and operated exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational pur-
poses. In any one year the total deductions for
such gifts may not exceed 15 per cent of the tax-
payer’s income as computed without the benefit

of the deduction.”

No More Large Gifts?

Some say that no more large gifts are to be had.
Granted that, as a result of the recent depression,
values have so changed that in many instances
estates have literally disappeared, an assumption
of responsibility for social needs by many people
heretofore indifferent is evident all around us. If
recent giftsito private social work agencies, to
community chests, to colleges and universities, to
churches, were carefully analyzed, that analysis

' v' would substantiate this.' It takes courage and

vision to give! It takhs courage and'ivi’sion to
administer wiselysuch gifts! _ ..  ' I
( C ontinued on page 638)

At a Fiftieth Anniversary Conference

ARTHA ELIOT, Assistant
Chief of the Children’s
Bureau, in opening the

meeting devoted to “The
First Years,” said that the
foundations of democracy are
laid in the early years of a
child’s life. She urged that all
individuals, organizations and governmental units
cooperate to secure the application of known facts
concerning the rearing of children in the many
places where they are unknown.

In a telegram to the conference Angelo Patri,
well-known educator and writer, emphasized the
fact that the home is the first and best school, the
mother the first and best teacher. The home, he
believes, performs the important function of set-
ting values for an individual. He concluded his
statement by asserting that the home is essential
and that community agencies and institutions only
contribute to the development of individuals. ‘

“Every child should have leisure, space and
quiet,” said Jessie Stanton, Director of the Har-
riet Johnson Nursery School. She emphasized the
need of children for experiences and the import-
ance of letting them learn all they can by them-
selves. Children of nursery school age need raw
materials such as clay, brushes and paint, and

blocks.

Sanford Bates, Executive Director of the Boys’
Clubs of America, made the statement that an in-
dividual’s real character is made in his leisure
hours. He pointed out that there is much compe—
tition outside the home and between undesirable
influences and desirable leisure-time activities for
the free time of the child. Every boy, in Mr.
Bates’s opinion, needs five things: recognition;
adventure; a friend; power of achievement; and
security.

“Most knowledge of children must come from
their parents,” said Dr. William E. Blatz, Di-
rector, St. George’s School for Child Study, Uni-
versity of Toronto. Dr. Blatz was greatly con-
cerned over the fact that in most of our schools
today pupils have little or no chance to express
disagreement with what the teacher has to say.
He believes a definite opportunity to express
doubts is essential for the pupil.

I'What do we know today about rearing
children and developing better family
life that we did not know a half century
ago?" This was the theme chosen by the
Child Study Association of America for
its fiftieth anniversary conference held in

New York City. November I6-l8. I938.

“A somewhat disillusioned
religious educator” was the
description applied to him-
self by Arthur L. Swift, Jr.,
Associate Professor of Ap-
plied Christianity at Union
Theological Seminary. He
feels we are educating youth
for a world that does not exist. Mr. Swift de-
cried the competitive system and called for a prac-
tical education, a planned economy, and a com-
monwealth of nations.

Some of the modern trends in youth education
were cited by Charles Maxwell McConn, Dean,
Washington Square College, New York Uni-
versity. The three major trends in education to-
day he enumerated as follows:

(I) The trend toward an enriched curriculum
——toward the idea that a curriculum is not so

much a list of subjects as it is a portion of life
to be lived.

(2) The trend toward guidance. The future of
guidance rests on the further development of three

things: (a) testing; (b) cumulative records; (c)
counseling.

(3) The trend toward the realization of the
educational value in extracurricular activities.

Caroline Zachry, Chairman, Committee on the
Study of Adolescents, Progressive Education As-
sociation, pointed out that our culture has no plan
for introducing adolescents into “adulthood and its
accompanying responsibilities.’Miss Zachry listed
the needs of adolescents on an emotional level:

(1) Youth needs an attitude toward a changing
body.

(2) Youth needs an attitude toward sex be-
hav1or: he needs to know what the place of a
man or a woman, as such, is in our society.

(3) Youth needs to build a conscience. Pretty
generally young people do it by visualizing an
ideal man or woman and then striving to be like
him or her.

(4) Youth needs an adjustment to the chang—
ing relationships between himselfand his parents,
his sisters and brothers, other-people.

(5) Youth needs a definite purpose. The pur-
pose will change as he grows, but it is essential.
Whether it be called a religion, a philosophy, a
code-of ethics or something else, it is an essential.

(6) Youth needs a sense of achievement.

623

624 YOU ASKED FOR IT !

At Chicago's Exhibit

EN 0R TWELVE years ago the amateur photo—

graphic program conducted by the Chicago
Park District started with the idea of juvenile
photographic clubs. One of the clubs fiourished,
and by the time the Chicago park officials put on
their display at the Century of Progress in 1933
the club had developed some creditable examples
of photographic art which were shown in one of
the booths at the Fair. The display was accom—
panied by the request that individuals interested
in joining photographic clubs in their home neigh-
borhoods register so that they might be communi-
cated with later. This registration, which was sur-
prisingly large, provided the park officials with
nuclei for clubs in many sections of the city, and
there are now twenty-one of these groups.

The clubs have no difficulty in attracting from
the largest business concerns and most expert cir-
cles in the city speakers and demonstrators who in
a volunteer capacity greatly enrich the skills and
technical abilities of the members. The Park Dis-
trict provides merely a sink and water and elec-
tric connections. The clubs furnish all other
equipment, sharing personal and club possessions
alike in their darkroom and developing quarters.
As a result of this cooperative planning, the ex-
hibits progress from year to year in quality and
artistic merit.

(Continued on page 638)

 

Photo by Marion Aldrich

You Asked for It!

Question: Can you suggest a use for old auto-
mobile tires? We have a number of them and it
occurred to us that something might be done to
make them usable for family and neighborhood

recreation.

Answer: Nine used tire casings, nine broken
high jump cross-bars, nine paper pennants with
numerals in successive order from I to 9, a bag of
several dozen discarded practice golf balls, enough
old mashies (usually out-of—date with their, wooden
shafts) to go around, a vacant lot or back-yard,
and you have all the elements necessary for a

game of tire golf.

The chief attraction of tire golf is its simplicity
and ease of immediate performance. Teeing up an
old golf ball at a definite starting place (a tee)
and with a smooth pitch stroke using a mashie,
the newcomer is quite likely to drop a sixty yard
shot into the hole for a a hole-in-one on his first
attempt. The object of the game is to play the
ball from the tee to the hole in the least number
of strokes, or at least in a smaller number than
those taken by the opponent.

A tee is designated by a stake or marker. The
hole, from which the game derives its name, is
constructed by excavating sufficient earth from a
hole to allow a discarded automobile tire to be
placed in such a manner that the tire is the
boundary of the hole. The size of the hole will
be the same as the circumference of the wheel
from which the tire was taken. This large hole. a
feature which allows for a large amount of suc-
cessful shots, 'does away with the necessity for
putting in the game.

The limited areas used make it a rule that tire
golf be a one—club game. This club is a mashie
f or number hve iron). (Golf professionals often
state that this club is one of the simplest to mas-
ter.) The nature of this club sends even the poor-
est shot into the air and results in immediate sat—
isfaction for beginners. Wooden-shafted mashies
are at present rapidly disappearing from regular
play and can usually be had for a small sum. As
there is no putting in the game, low priced sec-
onds, repaints, or practice balls may be used.

Some courses have but one or two holes placed
so that club control must be used to keep from
going out of bounds into the street or the neigh-
bors yard with the holes placed anywhere from
20 to 100 yards apart. Fortunate people with
large areas arrange nine-hole courses with the

(C ontimced on page 638)

WORLD AT PLAY

 

DURING the week
before Christmas New
Yorkers doing last
minute shopping
noticed groups of players moving from church to
church, from corner to corner, singing Christmas
carols and recounting the tale of the Nativity.
They were the Nativity Players of the WPA
Federal Theater Project who made a very suc-
cessful debut during Christmas week a year ago.
There were two companies of players, Negro and
white, and each evening of the week the groups
met at the steps of the New York Library. From
this point they headed in different directions, each
company with its own electrical and scenic equip-
ment transported on Federal theater trucks. Six-
teen carol singers accompanied each of the groups.

Nativity Players of
New York City

IN discussing golf
courses in the Detroit
area, Dr. Henry 8.

Winter Use of
Golf Courses

Curtis, Executive Sec—‘

retary of the Huron-Clinton Parkway Committee,
emphasizes the desirability of using golf courses
for winter sports. He cites as an example of such
use the Huron Hills Golf Club which last winter
opened its club house and grounds to the public
for a $2.00 fee. The club offered tobogganning,
skiing and skating on its tennis courts, ping-pong
and shuffleboard in the club house. The plan was
so successful that an extended program is being
offered this winter. The Pleasant Valley Golf
Club will make similar provisions during the com-
ing winter.

THERE will be win-
ter sports to suit every-
one’s fancy in Union
County, New Jersey,
this winter, and residents of the county, may have
their choice between the mile-a-minute speed of a
toboggan or the leisurely pace of a horse-drawn
sleigh. In addition to tobogganing and sleigh rid-
ing, there will be facilities for skiing, skating and
coasting. Many days of skating are predicted as
the result of the Commission’s decision to Hood
seven shallow areas in addition to keeping cleared,
whenever there is sufficient ice for skating, thir-
teen ponds and lakes in the park system. Some

Winter Sports in Union
County, New Jersey

of the shallow areas as well as the lakes will be
Hoodlighted for night skating, and at the larger
lakes heated shelters will be maintained. Gallop-
ing Hill golf course is slated to be Union County’s
winter sports center, and here work has been com-
pleted on the erection of two chutes for tobog-
ganing, each 800 feet long with a twenty-five per
cent grade at the start. Fairways 2, 3 and 10 of
the eighteen-hole golf course have been officially
designated for skiing and coasting, and a practice
fairway not far from the club house has been
Hooded for skating. A new skiing trail three-
quarters of a mile long has been developed by
CCC workers in the Watchung Reservation.

ON November 8th the
voters of Portland,
Oregon, approved by
referendum vote a ten
year sewerage disposal program and a ten year
park program, both to be financed on a pay-as—
you-go basis. The park program involves the es-
tablishment of a system of public recreational
areas consisting of neighborhood parks, play-
grounds and play fields in locations of the city
where they are most needed. The City Council
has been authorized to acquire the land by pur-
chase from private owners, by exchanging with
private owners any of the real estate owned by
the city, or by leasing land with an option to
purchase.

A Pay-As-You-Go
Park Program

 

THE Oakland, Cali—
fornia, Recreation De-
partment is issuing a
series of Special holi-
day “party suggestions which is known as the
Home-Centered Recreation Bulletin Service. For
over a year the Department has been preparing

Home-Centered Recre-
ation Bulletin Service

- and distributing these bulletins to any individuals

who wish them and the list now numbers in the
hundreds, including many parents who wish the
material as a means of promoting family parties
and home recreation. The bulletins are also dis-
tributed to executives of all youth serving organi-
zations in the city, such as Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Y.M.C.A., Y.VV.C.A.,
Eastbay Church Federation, orphanages, and
children’s homes.

625

626 WORLD AT PLA Y

Poster Postal Cards
Available—In the DeCember
issue of RECREATION we re-
produced, under the title
“Advertising Your Center’s
Activities,” four cuts show-
ing activities at the Irene
Kaufmann Settlement in
Pittsburgh. Sidney Teller,
Director of the Settlement, 1835 Center Avenue,
Pittsburgh, has written that a set of the poster
postal cards may be obtained for ten cents (stamps
accepted). The Settlement also issues a set of
etching reproductions on postal size cards of fif-
teen diiferent activities which are obtainable for
ten cents a set. Requests should be sent directly
to Mr. Teller.

 

City Coordinates Its Recreation—On De-
cember Ist the City School Department and the
Municipal Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment of Los Angeles, California, began a closely
coordinated program of school and municipal rec-
reational activities. This is being accomplished
through the creation of a new administrative posi-
tion, that of Supervisor of Coordinated Recrea-
tion, for the purpose of aligning school and mu-
nicipal recreation. W. H. Orion, who has been
Chief of the Division of Health and Physical
Education of the California State Board of Edu-
cation for the past four years, has been appointed
to the post as the liaison officer between the pub-
lic schools and the city recreation system. Mr.
Orion will work to bring about the maximum pub-
lic use of the facilities of both organizations to
effect increased service and economy and avoid
duplication. It will also be his responsibility to set
up uniform rules and regulations, help conduct
carry-over activities for former school students
now under Recreation Department guidance, and
to study procedures for meeting growing com-
munity recreation needs. He will be employed
both by the City School Department and the Play-

ground and Recreation Department, working i

under the administrative supervision of the Super-
intendent of the Playground and Recreation
Department.

Film Strips Available—The Extension Ser-
vice of the United States Department of Agri-
culture announces that prices for film strips issued
by the Department for the fiscal year 1938-39 are
lower than those in effect during the past fiscal

year. The prices until June 30, 1939 will range
from 45 cents to 65 cents each, depending upon
the number of illustrations in the series. The
majority of the three hundred series the Depart—
ment has available will sell for 45 or 50 cents each.
The subjects covered include soil conservation,
farm crops, dairying, farm animals, farm forestry,
plant and animal diseases and pests, roads, farm
economics, farm engineering, home economics,
and adult and junior extension work. Lecture
notes are provided with each film strip purchased,
with the exception of those that are self-

explanatory.

A Community Shell—The community shell
completed in Ann Arbor, Michigan, may be con-
sidered a memorial to the joint cooperation of
many organizations and agencies in the commu-
nity. Its dedication on August 14th marked the
beginning of a series of musical, dramatic and
civic events which it is hoped will contribute vitally
to the cultural development of the community.

Recreation for Shut-Ins—Although varying
to some extent in different seasons of the year, the
activities for shut-ins in Akron, Ohio, homes have
been and are as follows:

A cts'm'ty Children Participating
Airplane modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 48

Reading and Story Telling . . . . . . . . . . .. 92

Instrumental Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 116

Handcraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 104

Number in convalescent homes served . . . . . . . . . . .326

The swimming pool at Lincoln School was also
reserved one night each week complete with in-
structors for the adult handicapped group.

Planning for Michigan—Commenting on the
establishment of a permanent State Planning
Commission for Michigan, the Ann Arbor News
says: “There are many things for a State Plan-
ning Commission to do in Michigan. Parkways
need to be built, recreation areas have to be de-
veloped, and all of Michigan’s mighty resources
must be utilized to the best advantage.”

A Radio Regatta—Through the cooperation
of all of the aquatic bodies of Chicago and of the
Radio Industry, a novel event was staged in the
progressive program along the lakefront last sum-
mer. North side boats, a joint Heet of over 200
vessels, South side craft, only slightly smaller in
number, moved toward the heart of the city and

 

WORLD AT PLAY

staged programs off—shore at all beaches from con-
centration points, ending in final evening program
north of Municipal Pier. Ideal weather conditions
prevailed, and small and large craft made a very
colorful picture. Close in shore there were drills
and boating spectacles, hydro-planing and various
entertainment repeated at. each stopping point.
The fleets kept contact with headquarters by short
wave radio, and during the evening several sta-
tions staged their regular feature broadcast pro-
grams from the boats out on the water.

Lest We Forget l—The Everwear Manufac-
turing Company of Springfield, Ohio, has issued
a poster decorated with American flags and call—
ing attention to the significance of Armistice Day.
Under the caption “Lest We Forget” the poster
reads in part: “Today we commemorate the time
spent in our country’s service and recall the joy
of November 11, 1918. With clouds of discord
darkening the sky and guns again thundering
overseas, we must meet the new challenge and
dedicate ourselves to work for national and in-
ternational unity.”

The Polk County ’Possum Club—The only
club of its kind in the world, the Polk County
’Possum Club, originated and organized in the
hills of Arkansas, has for the past twenty-six
years held an annual feast to which everyone is
invited. Here lawyers, senators, governors and
bankers rub elbows at the banquet table with car-
penters and road builders, and here everyone be-
comes Bill, Jack, Tom. Mary, Susie and Jennie.
“We feel,” writes Sarah Jane York, Recreation
Supervisor, “that it is one of the happiest and
gayest festivals that takes place in the world to-
day.”

The club in planning for its 1938 banquet issued
a formal bid blank stating that about a hundred
and fifty possums would be needed. Under “terms
of payment” the contract states: “Each bidder
will state cash discount he will allow. This dis-
count will be (cheerfully) taken by the club
treasurer. Payment will be made when we have
the money.” Another item falls under payment:
“On presentation of invoice to club treasurer bid-
ders have a 2 5-75 per cent chance of getting paid.”

Feeding Stations for Birds—A few days after
the first snowfall of the season, six bird feeding
stations were set out in Watchung Reservation

COORDINATION of mind and hands in
craftwork brings out artistic talent and

lays the foundation for pleasant hobbies.

Here are just a few of the things children
will be proud to make: a bright basket for
the living room at home, an attractive cos-
tume belt for mether, desk accessories for
father, an apple penny-bank. All are easy to
make of Dennison Crepe. InstruCtions for
these and other craft objects are in the Den-
nison book, “New Dennison Craft Ideas,"
10¢ a copy. Write today, in time for the
Spring term.

DENNISON'S. Dept. No. B-283, Framingham, Mass.
Please send me the book, "New Dennison Craft
Ideas," for which I enclose 10¢.

NAME ........................................................................ ......

ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

CITY ............................................ ..STATB .................... ..

Why not let us send you other stimulating booklets
of Dennison Craftwork for use in the school room?
Check those you want and enclose 10¢ for each.

C] How to Make Crepe Paper Flowers

D Gay Decorations

CI Gay Colorful Costumes of Crepe Paper

gal/[WW CREPE

 

627

628 WORLD AT PLAY

   
  
  
 
 
   
    
  

  

. EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DBTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,

the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

areas maintained by the Union County, New Jer-'
sey, Park Commission. These are wooden struc-
tures with a roof which prevents the food being
covered by snow. In addition to the grain supply,’
which is replenished as often as necessary at each
station, stale bread supplied by the CCC veterans’
camp at Clark Township is scattered about. Help
in the feeding program is given the Commission
by Boy and Girl Scout troops, 4-H Clubs, and
other youth organizations which maintain auxiliary
feeding stations in the county parks in their
communities.

With the National Association of Audubon
Societies—Among the highlights of the 34th
Annual Meeting of the National Association of
Audubon Societies, held at New York City, Octo-
ber 21-25, 1938, were the Reunion of the Audu-
bon Nature Camp, two field trips, one to Mon-
tauk Point, L. 1., and the other to Cape May,
New Jersey, unusually interesting and effective
colored motion pictures of familiar birds, and a
special lecture “(the Artistic Talent of _ John
James Audubon,” with an interesting use of
colored slides. Considerable discussion was

aroused by the paper presented by Dr. Ralph T.
King, urging that the resources and energies of
those interested in preserving wild life in
America be used to increase native wild life rather
than to replace depleted stock with exotic types.

During the meeting the association held a
house-warming at its new quarters, 1006 Fifth

Avenue, New York City.

Skiing in New England—Ten years ago a
hearty skier could have covered all of New Eng-
land skiing trails in one afternoon had they all
been located in the same township. Today he
could not do it in an entire season. According to
the New England Council, the runs would stretch
600 miles if laid end to end. Two hundred trails
have been completed in the past year. Other de-
velopments of 1937 include twenty new ski tows,
fifteen new jumps, nearly forty shelters and
cabins, and the careful grooming of some one
hundred open slopes. Thirty new winter resort
communities have been added.

“Ash-Canning”—A winter sport which is
proving a popular diversion in Yosemite, Rainier
and Sequoia National Parks is known as “ash-
canning.” The equipment consists of an ash-can
lid minus the handle, a burlap bag for a cushion,
and a great deal of nerve. The courageous sports-
man sits in the lid, is given a push at the t0p of a
toboggan slide, and goes whirling around and
around and down to the bottomH—or to a point
where he goes head over heels into a near-by deep
snowdriftl

English Folk Dance Authority Visits
America —Doug1as Kennedy, Director of the
English Folk Dance and Song Society, and suc-
cessor of Cecil Sharp, will visit this country dur-
ing February and March. An authority on the
English folk dance and folk song, Mr. Kennedy
illustrates his lectures with demonstrations and
solo and group singing, also drawing on his wide
knowledge of related American dances and songs.
His emphasis on the folk dance and folk song as
contributions to the field of recreation reflects a
growing recognition of their importance by lead-
ers in this field.

Mr. Kennedy will lecture in a number of col-
leges in the East and Middle West, will speak be-
fore associations of teachers, and will lecture and
teach at the Conference of Southern Mountain

WORLD AT PLAY 629

Workers to be held in Knoxville, Tennessee,
March 7-9. His visit to the United States will be
under the auspices of the English r011: Dance and
Song Society oi America, with headquarters at I 5
East 40th Street, New York City. Further infor-
mation regarding Mr. Kennedy’s engagements
may be secured from Miss Catherine White, Sec-
retary of the Society.

Annual National Folk Festival Schedule—
The sixth annual National Folk Festival will be
held at Constitution Hall, Washington, D. G,
April 27, 28 and 29, 1939, under the sponsorship
of the Washington Post Folk Festival Associa-
tion. Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott, National Di-
rector of the festival, holds very much that this
year a number of recreation groups will take part
in the festival, and she urges anyone interested to
communicate with her at the Washington head-
quarters of the National Folk Festival Associa-
tion, 1337—43 E Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Neighborhood Committee Secures Rink—A
favorable reply was received when a committee
representing residents of the southwest side of
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, appeared before the Board
of Education and requested the use of a portion
of the Hayes School grounds for a skating rink.
The Recreation Commission will maintain and
supervise the area, together with three other rinks
and a hockey rink for league play. A portable
building 6’ by 36’ by 8’ to be used as a warming
house at the Roosevelt rink has been purchased
by the Recreation Commission at a cost of ap-
proximately $330. It will accommodate about
seventy-live skaters.

_ An Outdoor Recreation Conference — The
sixth annual Outdoor Recreation Conference held
under the auspices of Massachusetts State Col-
lege will take place at Amherst, Massachusetts,
March 9-12, 1939. The theme of the conference
will be “Coordination of Outdoor Community
Recreation.” There will be a section on nature
study and gardening under the leadership of Dr.
William G. Vinal, Director of the Nature Guide
School which will hold morning and afternoon
sessions for two days, with well-known leaders in
nature recreation participating. On the afternoon
of the second day there will be an auto-caravan
trip to see dinosaur tracks and the proposed reser—
vation. The Nature Guide School dinner and re-

 

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARROW!

UF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest

plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form, building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. R9 Pine Bluff. Ark.

union will be held at night, and there will be exhi-
bitions and talks by Nature Guide students. A
colored film will be shown of the Nature Guide
School activities.

National Americanism Week —-— Marion H.
Marshall, Vice-Chairman of Americanism of the
United States Junior Chamber of Commerce,
Lansing, Michigan, has announced that the an-
nual observance of National Americanism Week
will be February 12-22, the time being set aside
by a statement of the President of the United
States and proclamations by the various state gov-
ernors. There will be nation-wide radio broad-
casts, newspaper publicity, local observances and a
continuation of the program of education in the
public schools. The cooperation of all the recrea-
tion systems throughout the country is sought this
year as in other years.

February always seems particularly appropriate
to think of the fundamental principles on which
our government was founded, since Lincoln’s
Birthday and Washington’s Birthday both come in
this month. In connection with the observance
of these two birthdays, recreation systems do have
a special opportunity to consider the problems
which are facing democracy, to call attention to
the way in which our country has been built up

through the years.

Toward an Understanding of Leisure
(Continued from page 599)
this way can we rescue leisure from banality, and

retirement from neuroticism.

(3) Further, we should plan new enterprises
which will begin at the moment of retirement and
mature at a still later date. By such a program
we shall assure zest, anticipation and enjoyment

630 TOW’ARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF LEISURE

 

 

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL.

PORTABLE

      

Yes, you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY, with initial
down payment. See your Royal Portable dealer
or mail coupon today for information.

Inn-7%!

 

Roy-I" 3

 

.bout

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. RNR 239

2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

of the future much in the same spirit as a young
person looks forward to life—an antidote to the
hopelessness of age.

(4) We must see to it that both the enterprises
now in progress and those begun at the time of
retirement are serious enough to employ time
fully. They must offer a discipline to life, must

command a routine—an antidote to the aimless-
ness of age.

(5) we must see to it that some of our activi—
ties are shared with others. When a man retires
from active life he is in danger of letting his
social contacts lapse. Almost inevitably an in—
creased seclusion is forced upon him. He must,
therefore, deliberately plan activities of a social
and cooperative nature as an antidote to the
friendliness of age.

(6) we should, I believe, plan not only finan-
cially for the period of retirement, but plan also
for emotional independence from family and chil-
dren. The younger generation, however much its
affection, does not like to be burdened with re-
sponsibility for the older. As an antidote to the
impositions of age, therefore, we should plan for

independent residence, and for social contact
largely with contemporaries.

(7) We should, I think, prefer creative enter-
prises to stereotyped ones, capitalizing always on
previous experience. The man with a creative in-
terest leads two lives, one routine, one exhilarat-
ing—the latter an antidote to the boredom of age.

And What are the rewards? They are as mul-
tiple as the uses to which men put their time, as
individual as the person. I would leave with you
this thought, a routine system of habits becomes
for some men so compulsive that they dislike to
be disturbed. They are literally afraid of leisure
in any quantity. It calls for readjustments which
they are loathe to make. But just because it does
so, it is mentally therapeutic for those millions
who need'self-expression, who are caught by the
machine age in work which has no continuous
satisfaction. And when leisure is intelligently
planned, its rewards are endless. It maintains
flexibility, increases contact with the outside world,
keeping a man oriented in interest healthily away
from himself. Evidences of neurosis and frustra—
tion, therefore, disappear. In addition it offers op-

 

ADAPTING BASEBALL TO THE NEEDS OF THE BLIND 631

portunity to learn a new discipline, to increase
aesthetic appreciation, to become an authority in
some field. Life, in short, becomes progressive,
integrative, leading one constantly to review his
philosophy, to add new reaches of meaning and
experience to it. All this builds into character the
stuff of which real personality is made; and that,
I take it, is the true function of leisure.

Adapting Baseball to the Needs
of the Blind

(Continued from page 600)
They listen for the approach of the ball and after

making a catch attempt to throw the runner out
at the closest base. All that is necessary for the
put out is that the ball pass in front of the runner
prior to his touching the base.

The buzzers for the various bases are operated
from a control box located behind home plate by
one of the officials of the game.

Each batter is allowed live strikes and five balls.
Balls and strikes are determined by the umpire
who is a seeing person. He rules upon the pitch
in relation to its passage over the home plate,
which is divided into three lanes. Players bat
from one of the three lanes depending upon
stance etc. in relation to the position of home
plate.

In the games played to date the scores have
been quite large, proving that the batter does hear
the approach of the ball and is able to hit it. The
big weakness now is that the ball travels with
such speed that the players are unable to locate
it fast enough. However, the players feel that
within a short time, with practice, they will be
able to play a much better game.

Fees and Charges for Public Park

Services
( Continued from page 603)
It takes time to bring full realization to the

whole population of the value of their state and
national parks and the benefits and enjoyment
they have in store for them. As the number of
park visitors grows, so will the popular sentiment
for their retention and support increase. I be-
lieve that all visitors to our state and national
parks cannot help but be impressed most favor-
ably as they enter a park to register at the gate
or contact stations and receive a courteous greet-
ing of welcome from the ranger who is well-in-
formed and willing to furnish them guidance and
advice about the park and how to see it to the best

advantage.

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME $51%/ 4

 
 

MALABLE CAST IRON ' WHITE PLATED

.

  
  
   
  
 
    
 

ONE SET consm's OF 4 PUSH CUES and I Will
6 DISC ( 3 A's and 3 8'5) ouflasi,
PaICE $12.00 per set , Delivered 2 or 3

cunvm momcwts W°°d°n 80’“

POSITIVE CONTROL IN

SHOOTING THE DISC.

BRASS PIVOT. CURVED BACK FOR

THE PURPOSE or
PLACING THE. DISC
ON STARTING LINE.

 
 
 
  
     
 

PATIN‘I’II
AND MIOI.

CHAS. H.WlLSON Oakland,Calif.

l4l7 " 80+h. Ave.

 

 

Does not the name “State and National Parks”
convey the meaning that they are the public’s
property, and is it not strange that the public
should be required to pay an admission fee to
enter such property? Let there be a reasonable
charge for all special accommodations, privileges,
and facilities that may be offered within the park,
but do not exact a toll from the public to get into
and enjoy by ordinary travel and observation the
beauty, nature’s gifts, inspiration, and happiness
which the scenic attractions convey, and for the
conservation and enjoyment of which the parks
have been acquired at the expense of the public at
large. The road fee charged at some national
parks is a misnomer. It is an unjustified admis-
sion charge, pure and simple. . . . .

I believe it is not so much a well-grounded feel-
ing that the great public in general will resent
such admission charges that is the cause of the.
reluctance with which most park administrators,
I believe, look upon this movement to collect sus-
taining revenue of this character, as it is the con-
viction that in principle such charges have no
justification, constitute a wrong application of
authority, and are an imposition. I trust I am not
wrong in this assumption and hope that such a
contention among park men will prevail.

What They Say About Recreation

(Continued from page 604)

other branch of education, in spite of the fact that
in our schools the people who come to study arith-
metic go in by the front door, and those who come
to play basketball go in the side door. As soon as
the public recognizes that the recreation program
is just as important as any other part of educa-

tion, then we will have a real educational pro-
gram.”—Marle McCloskey in Child Study, April

1938.

632 HATCHET AND CHERRY BLOSSOMS

 

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

L_________

Hatchet and Cherry Blossoms
(Continued from page 607)

triangle, blindfold her, turn her around three
times, and tell her to advance eight steps and
curtsy to Washington. The girl who succeeds in
doing this is rewarded with an old-fashioned
nosegay.

i Quaker Meeting. Guests are seated in rows and
warned not to laugh or speak out loud during this
game. The person on the right end of each row
must shake hands with the one on her left and
whisper to her some absurd thing to do such as,
“Thee is to walk sedately to the front and set
Sister Agatha’s kerchief straight.” Each one
passes this message on, accompanied by a hand-
shake, to the next person. The one at the end of
the row is to carry out the whispered bidding as
she has heard it. Any one who laughs or makes
undue noise must rise and stand facing the wall
until the game is over.

Truth. Cut pictures from magazines which illus-
trate common phrases not literally true. Patch
pictures together if necessary to get complete
phrase. Number them and pin them on the wall.
How many can guess the meanings as George
Washington would have seen them? Examples
are “Her eyes fell to the Hoor” (eyes cut out and

dropping to floor) ; “She went all to pieces” (per-
son cut in pieces) ; “She ran across a man” (car
on top of man) ; “She devoured a book” (person
holding a book with a bite out of it). Others are:
“drank in the music,” “swept into the room,”
“burst into tears,” “time flew by.”

Writing Lists. Have some writing games. For
instance you can see who can make the most
words out of “George Washington,” “Martha
Washington,” or “Revolutionary.”

Any one of these three parties can be given suc-
cessfully and made worthy of the occasion if you
but keep in mind that it must be centered around
the things that are generally associated with
Washington and colonial times.

Cutting the Cloth to Fit the Pattern

(Continued from page 608)
Assuming that you have decided on a program

that will use up all your facilities, money or lead-
ership, your work is only partly done because the
preparation of the groups or the community for
this program is a determining factor of its success.
May I give an example of what I mean?

Several attempts had been made in Kenosha
before the present recreation director took office
to organize and operate a civic orchestra. Friction
between union musicians and non-union players,
fear on the part of the unions, and misunder-
standing caused a collapse in a very short time.
When we decided to introduce the activity, a great
deal of time was spent with both of these groups
working out very clearly and definitely policies
and misunderstandings, and at the present time
we have the union and non-union players sitting
side by side in a civic orchestra. As a matter of
fact, the president of the local union played in this
orchestra for several years.

Choruses have been attempted and failed be-
cause factional groups broke up the harmony in
the activity. If we had selected as the director of
our choral society a leader from one of the church
choirs, friction would no doubt have developed,
but the plan of choosing a leader from outside
existing organizations has worked harmoniously
for several years.

The program, to grow and prosper, must be
built slowly and on the same dignified basis as
education. Do not overadvertise and thereby
cheapen your department. Cooperate with other
agencies; you will find them willing to cooperate
with you. Your business as a recreation director
is to see that your town as far as possible has ade-

 

CARD PLAYING IN THE MODERN RECREATION PROGRAM 633

quate recreation. Your department cannot operate
it all. Church groups, Y.M.C.A.’s, lodges, indus-
trial organizations and unions are all carrying on
a recreational program. It is your responsibility
to work with them and to help them achieve the
objective of offering to the people they are trying
to serve a program which will be to the best
interests of the community. See that they get the
‘credit for the work they do and you will find them
willing to help you in your programs whenever
they are given an opportunity.

It would be utterly impossible for us to at-
tempt to say what should be an adequate program
for any city of a population of 50,000, for ex-
ample, because of the different interests and prob-
lems that arise in these various towns. I am con-
vinced, however, that the conscientious director
will go a long way toward solving community
problems if he takes a commOn-sense view of the
situation, if he is sincere in his efforts and desires
to be of real community service.

Card Playing in the Modern

Recreation Program
(Continued from page 610)

tions. The rooms can be used for recruiting
stations for all activities.

Those who have little enthusiasm over card
games usually present the argument that it is the
lazy man’s form of “recreation; that no lasting
benefits can be derived from playing cards, and
that it does not build one physically. They over—
look the fact that through card playing we learn
to concentrate, to improve our memory, to de-
velop our reasoning powers, to overcome ob—
stacles and to instill confidence in ourselves. We
take to the game, whatever it may be, with a zest,
keeping our minds alert and functioning all the
time. The competition of the game stimulates
«effort within us, and subconsciously we are broad-
ening our thinking capacities and training our-
selves.

The card games that are played in the game

rooms can be equally as successful and popular in -

' ‘the homes. For instance, the woman who has
learned contract bridge has done herself a service
which she can share with her neighbors. She is in
a position to transform a dull evening at home
into a period of fascinating mental entertainment
for her friends. And, an ordinary deck of cards
is her medium. Her presence will be continually
in demand to enlighten the uninitiated with the
knowledge she has acquired. Each deal of the
cards produces kaleidoscopic changes in the pat-

  

Wh y Th ey Subscribe.I

What School Activities brought to its
readers the past year for only $2.00!

 A E; m  ii.  
Activities

    
      

 47 articles on Ad-
I‘ ministration and

Supervision of Ex-

tra-CurricularAc-

 tivities

  2| articles on School

 Assemblies

I4 articles on
Athletics

mans... } 56 articles on Clubs

7-»:- WOJO‘W «m

J v—bm hilt-(t . . I 4..
A §htlmito M

.............. 'h  Commencement
bausXVMM$m . ‘ 
7 articles on Debate

I3 articles on
Dramatics

articles on Fi-
nancing Activities
6 articles on Home

        

4......-
‘_

 
     
   
    
     
       
            
     
 

«as-m; <2...” e was}; Mid
{Wm-u aw

    
 

J f-vwn‘w' Vim $9 lie-ruse» "6131-150

3 R Goa-w: , t ,5:

1N- ».WMQW . "

Arm‘s/‘4'. , :  ' 7

             
     
     
   
 

Rooms
School Activities 7 articles on Music
in their school 20 articles on
means . . . Pam“

   

23 articles on Pro-
gram Material

8 articles on School

 
 

For the PRINCIPAL

School and community in-
terest-—attention that is Publications
al‘jvaYs given ‘0 thing' 3 articles on School
going on. spirii

School interpretation—dem-
onstration of what the
school is doing. exhibi-
tion and explanation of
the work that justifies the
modern school.

School spirit. harmony with-
in and among school
groups. school loyalty
and goodwill.

For the TEACHER

Material for assembly and
community programs. times the cost would

Practical ideas and sugges- h a v e b r o u g h t to
tions for clubs and home them!

rooms. _ (Completely indexed
Plans for Parties: banquets: in Education Index)

and socials. With a nationally

For the STUDENT prominent editorial

' and advisory board—
Alggxgtg-razducauve some- _ SCHOOL AP-
A wholesome good time— TlVlTIES Speaks Will

a happy eventful school GUH‘ONW .0" matters

life, of great Importance
A rich experience in genu— ' *0 all icliOOlSo -

ine democratic living. Only $2.00 per year

     
   
    
    
     
     

I2 articles on Stu.
dent Government

l0 articles on Mis.
cellaneous Ac-
tivities

Also scores of pithy

Editorials. News

Items. Bool: ReviewsI
etc.

This is more usable
material than sev-
eral boolrs at many

  
     
     
      
     
      
 
        
       
         
   
    
       
        
       
    
        
      
 
 

   

Subscribe NOW to

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES MAGAZINE

College Hill
Topeka Kansas
"The Magazine with a Big Place in Every School"

    
     
 

634 HARTFORD CELEBRATES CHRISTMAS

A
5 MONTHS
TRIAL
0FFER

. . . Jour opportunity

to really become acquainted with one
of the most stimulating and helpful
school magazines. 5 months’ trial

off er of the

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only

$1.00

. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to, this new type of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proj-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied With first copy—your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
your name, address and a dollar bill,
and receive the next iive issues of

Junior Arts 82 Activities

DEPT. R

740 Bush Street Chicago. Illinois

 

terns of the hands. An ever changing series of
situations lends variety enough to provoke inter-
est in the most uninterested. Competition in bid-
ding keeps this verve at white heat, and the un-
certainty in fulfilling a contract engenders a
suspense that is not dispelled until the last card

is played. _____
Giving Joy to Life

(Continued from page 611)
to those means which will give them more of the
so—called necessities of life, but it must be recog-
nized that the fulness of life is in the human spirit
and that better recreation and social life and the
appreciation of the beautiful are what give joy

to life.

Hartford Celebrates Christmas -— And

the Nativity ls Presented
(Continued from page 617)

an historic terrace which had been built into the
hillside back in 1866 and had been used as a
pedestal for two ancient cannons that saw service
on the U. S. S. Hartford during the engagements
on the Mississippi River and Mobile Bay.

The interior of the stable was reproduced as
nearly as possible to the life that research showed
was contemporaneous with the time of the birth
of Christ in Bethlehem. The floor was earthen,
and the furnishings few and crude. On one side
sat the Virgin Mary with the Christ Child on her
lap, Joseph standing slightly in the rear, and at
her Side was the little wooden manger with her
white cape draped across it. Kneeling in adora—
tion before her was the figure of a shepherd boy,
while opposite, a sedate donkey, gazing stolidly at
the scene, stood near an ox whose head and
shoulders protruded from a stall.

Approaching from the right, past a row of
evergreens and cedars transplanted from the Bat—
terson Park nursery, were three brightly capari-
soned camels bearing on their backs the Wise Men
of the East who held in upraised hands their gifts

_ of gold, frankincense and myrrh. Coming from

the other direction were shepherds and a flock of
sheep passing three open archways that revealed a
panorama of the town of Bethlehem in the
distance. I

In front of the stable, other shepherds knelt,
while high overhead a huge electric star shone on
the setting. Hidden under bushes and shrubberies
placed at advantageous points were powerful spot-
lights of blue and amber that shed a soft radiance

over the scene.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS - 635

A wire fence set in a wide, sweeping arc formed
an enclosure that kept spectators at a distance,
thereby increasing their visibility and improving
the perspective. Behind the stable and also hid-
den from view, an electric orthophonic phono-
graph played a continuous program of Christmas
carols.

Never-ending streams of pedestrian traffic filed
past the set and thrilled at the lifelike reproduc-
tion of the immortal scene. At night, it was im—
possible to find parking space for blocks around,
and visitors came from far and near drawn by
news of the spectacle. Their numbers amazed
even a city used to crowds.

The setting drew particular attention from park
executives who visited it from Massachusetts,
Rhode Island and all parts of Connecticut, and
the Hartford department 'was besieged with in-
quiries seeking information and details, many of
them originating from an intention of duplicating
it next year.

The Nativity scene was a success far beyond
Hartford’s expectations, but Mr. Dillon regards
it only as the beginning of the ultimate set he

hopes will become an annual feature in his city.-

From the inauguration of his earliest plans, he
has insisted upon permanency in design and ma-
terial, and the nucleus that has resulted o'ffers op—
portunities for improvement and enlargement

year! by year.‘

Bob Davis Reveals

( Continued from page 618)
’95, ’96—followed by radio and wireless as an in-

troduction to the twentieth century.

Time and space were annihilated; the globe
ceased to be a dimensional problem. Europe, aug-
menting American inventions and discoveries, ad—
vanced scientific rivalry to a competitive point that
baffled prophecy. To what heights man’s imagina-
tion would ascend and transmute into accomplish-
ment became the universal query.

Seated in a corner of the luxury liner, alone
with my thoughts, it was borne in upon me that
practically all I had seen and heard and lived in a
lifetime could be brought back from the past and
reenacted in all its original magnificence and drama
before one parked in an easy chair in a closed
room; that all things occurring today, anywhere in
the world, could be made to leap the hemispheres
and be summoned in the twinkling of an eye to

any given spot.
(Continued on page 637)

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles )
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

  
    

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Health and Physical Education

December 1938

Unépibrling Must Keep Pace with Hockey, by Martha
a e

Beach and Pool, December 1938

An Elementary Treatise on the Construction, Sani-

tation and Operation of Swimming Pools, by Louis
J. Day and C. W. Stedman

Public Management, November 1938

The Broadening Scope of City Planning, by Hugh
R. Pomeroy

Scholastic Coach, November 1938
Girls’ Invitation Sports Days, by Catherine O. Dreher

The Journal of Health and Physical Education

October 1938
Re-Evaluation of the Professional Curriculum
'by D. Oberteuffer

The National Elementary Principal, December 1938

Teacher Relations to School Playground Activities

The Assembly—A Socializing Agency, by Mrs.
Homer L. Wilson

The W'omans Press, December 1938

Volunteers for Conflict, by Helen Beavers
General Without Portfolio, interview by The
l/Vomans Press of Elisabeth L. Richardson

The Nation’s Schools, December 1938
Intercepting Juvenile Crime, by Sam Allen

Parks and Recreation, December 1938

Why Do We Want Parks? by L. H. Weir

The Horticulture Gardens of Cleveland, by Mrs.
Robert H. Jamison

Exceptional Late Blossoming of Flowers in Calgary
Parks, by William R. Reader

A Step Toward Making Skating Rinks Pay,

by George B. Caskey

Public Management, December 1938

Thirty-Six Cities Get Federal Funds for Public

Forums
Community Centers Built by Nearly 200 Cities and

Towns

The Girl Scout Leader, January 1939
Pleasurable Learning, by Margaret N eedham

Parents’ Magazine, January 1939
This Way to Creative Play, by Elinor Fitch Grifiin

PAMPH LETS

Improving Our Rural Civilization — Youth Section,

American 'Country Life Association, January 1938, by
A. M. Boynton and E. L. Kirkpatrick
Study outline to stimulate interest in group dis—
cussion on the topic of the Youth Section, A.C.
L.A., 1938 conference: “Improving Our Rural

Civilization.” I
Recreational Activities for the Pre-School Child

By Elizabeth D. Embler, Program Specialist, Pre-
School Activities, WPA Recreation PrOJect for
the City of New York.

636 CHICAGO’S RECREATION CONFERENCE

Porter Sargent Publications

A HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
4000 schools. 1208 pages. $6.00.

“The Handbook, with its concise descriptions of
private schools remains the most useful thing of
its kind available to parents, teachers and libra-
ries.”—Christian Science Monitor. “Spicy com-
ments on things pedagogic. Concise and critical
information. A guide for parents and teachers, it
serves that purpose without fear of treading on an
occasional academic toe.”—New York Sun.

HUMAN AFFAIRS. 204 pages. $1.00.

“A discursive criticism of our cultural life written
in a lively, pungent and at times wholly devastat-
ing style. One is kept on reading it in the same way

as one listens to a brilliant conversationalist who
never loses his breath. It is held together by the
persistence of a fresh and inquiring mind that
wants to strip aside the nonsense and get at the
facts.”—Alvin Adey, Events.

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE
1200 schools. 160 pages. 25c.

1200 schools—boarding, day, junior college. 14
maps, 97 illustrations.

THE SUMMER CAMP GUIDE
400 camps. 104 pages. 25c.

400 better private camps, 8 maps, 82 illustrations.
Write for circulars of above and announcements
of forthcoming publications

Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon St, Boston, Mass.

 

Agricultural Extension Work with Older Rural Youth

By Agnes M. Boynton and E. L. Kirkpatrick. Pu'b-
lished by the American Youth Commission, Ameri-

can Council on Education, 744 Jackson Place,
Washington, D. C. October 1, 1938

Recent Surveys Pertaining to Rural‘ Youth

By E. L. Kirkpatrick. Published by American Youth
Commission, American Council on Education, 744
jackson Place, Washington, D. C. September 1,
1938

The Activities of Rural Young People in Missouri

By E. L. Morgan and Melvin W. Sneed. A Survey
of 2,297 Young People Attending High School.
Research Bulletin 269, November, 1937, issued by
the University of Missouri, the Agricultural
Experiment Station, University of Missouri, and
the Rural Section, Division of Social Research,
Federal WPA c00perating.

Essex County Park Commission

Thirty-ninth report of the Park Commission of
Essex County, New Jersey, 1936—1937

Roadside Improvement

Supplement to Planning and Civic Comment, Octo-
ber-December 1938

Rural Youth: Their Situation and Prospects,

By Bruce L. Melvin and Elna N. Smith.

An analysis of the present situation and future
prospects of rural youth. Research Mon0graph
XV, 1938, Publication of the Division of Social
Research, Works Progress Administration. Avail-
able from U. S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D. C.

Chicago's Recreation
Conference

BOUT 2,000 public and private leaders and
A prominent persons interested in the best use
of leisure time conferred on November 2Ist re-
garding the best methods of interesting in the
widest possible way many thousands of Chi-
cagoans and suburbanites through participation in
recreation. It was anticipated that through the
leadership gathered on this important day of

' training, 50,000 more public citizens could be

interested.

The meeting was held under the auspices of the
Chicago Recreation Commission, and all of the
greater organizations of Chicago were repre-
sented on its committee. These included the par-
ent-teacher associations, women’s clubs, Ameri-
can Legion, various workers’ groups, the churches,
local groups with active memberships on central
coordinating committees, youth in the junior dis-
trict recreation committees, professional recrea-
tion workers, and Federal emergency recreation
workers.

Speakers on this occasion were Dr. Eduard C.
Lindeman, Miss Ethel Bowers of the National
Recreation Association, V. K. Brown, Dr. Philip
Seman and many others from Chicago. There was
one grand session in the ballroom with a dozen

'sectional meetings by other organizations. Social

recreation claimed its place during the leisure
period. Extensive exhibitions with demonstra-
tions and consultation were features of the con-
ference.

The major topic of the conference was “The
Community’s Function in Recreation.” Follow-
ing the discussion of this subject, recreation lead-
ers took a look at Chicago’s 1939 recreation pro-
gram. The highly successful event was climaxed
by a gala dinner in the grand ballroom with speak-
ers dealing with the topic, “The Community’s
Part in Making Recreation a Positive Force.”
This event was said to be a red letter day for all
recreation forces in the Chicago area.

This is the fourth annual conference which the
Chicago Recreation Commission has held, and each
has been attended by large numbers of people who
have enjoyed interesting programs and stimulat-
ing speakers. Dr. Philip Seman is chairman of the
Commission; Edward L. Burchard, Executive
Secretary. Over fifty outstanding citizens of Chi-
cago are serving on the Commission.

THE BOARD OF RECREATION COMMISSIONERS

(Continued from page 635)
For what purpose need one travel, seeking the

material splendors of far countries; why sally
forth in restless wandering to hear distant voices

of mountebanks and prophets; why jostle with the.

mobs of other countries and exhaust ourselves in
strange places, breasting wind and tide, discom-
forts and disappointments, dangers and pestilence,
when the entire. panorama can be re-enacted at
will? Why?

From the bowels of the ship echoed reverbera-
tions of harnessed horse-power, the mighty hull
swaying gently under the control of gyroscopic
domination, undulating seas gliding by in the im-
ponderable dark.

In a flash I escaped from the impending coma!
It was not enough for me to see 'and to hear. I
wanted to touch and taste and smell, to be
drenched in rain, to feel earth under my feet, to
sense sunlight and the next dawn, to experience
exhaustion and hunger, to keep in motion until,
fatigued at last, it was my portion to reap that
great rejuvenation prefaced by the mystery of
sleep.

And so I prefer to spend in the companionship
of my five senses those precious hours, such as
they are, with whatever joys and sorrows belong
on the program—in short, to take all there is of
life, advancing to meet the oncoming pageant

rather than waiting for it to arrive.
Copyright 1938. All rights reserved.

The Board of

Recreation Commissioners
(Continued from page 620)
people and surely it is more potent than the voice
of one man, professionally engaged in recreation
and paid for the job. Board members can be used
to advantage by having them create sentiment in a
neighborhood for a new playground site, using
this idea as an example. A board member visiting
his own political groups within a neighborhood to
create an “asking group,” is a powerful factor in
securing an area where badly needed. Then, too,
if the majority of the board members are of the
same political faith as the majority of city council
members, there is every opportunity of getting
closer cooperation and the always needed funds
for expansion.
Board Members as Coordinators
Board members make excellent coordinators.
School board representatives on the board of rec-

reation are able to bring about a better under-

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of What community organizations, insti—
tutions, and agencies are doing -—-- or
not doing —

To lay the foundation for good citizenship
To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation.

Leaders of Other Character Building
Agencies

Miss Marla Leonard, Dean of Women, Uni-
versity of Illinois, says: "I wish to tell you how
much help I feel CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP
is to us who are trying to build youth. The name
of the magazine itself emphasizes the two great-
est goals in building youth. The sooner that
character and citizenship can be made the basis
not only of all human relations but of education
itself, the sooner a new era will be ushered into
America."

Send your order to .

National Council on Education
for Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

637

F...I-----------

0. Please record my name as a sub-

,’ scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP as checked below.

l] One year subscription at $2.00

NAME ................................ ..; ......................................... ..

ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

CITY .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 

638 THE BOARD OF RECREATION COMMISSIONERS

standing between janitor and playground leader,
between school principal and recreation center di-
rector, between the superintendent of schools and
the superintendent of recreation. Once a board
member has been introduced to the objectives and
philosophies of the recreation movement, it is re-
markable to see them work on representatives of
other agencies which are closely allied to the rec-
reation department. Other board members should
be asked to attend meetings of the leisure time
division of the Council of Social Agencies, or to
sit in juvenile court, or the mental health clinic.
One might well be definitely connected with the
athletic organizations of the city since athletics
usually has the largest number of participants in
a recreation program. Another might be used
better to coordinate the functions of the park de-
partment and the recreation department, espe-
cially with reference to administration and main-
tenance of facilities.

Looking to the Future

Finally, the board of recreation needs to think
of the future at all times. Planning for new play-
grounds, additional community centers in school
buildings, for a larger participation in the cul-
tural activities, for every normal, healthy child to
have the experience of camping, for a continua-
tion of hobby clubs after graduation from high
school, for support of the recreation system on a
millage basis rather than by an annual indefinite
appropriation from city council each year, these
are vital problems the solution of which keep
boards of recreation alive and alert.

Fortunate is the city which has an active city
planning engineer and city planning commission
to Whom the board of recreation may go for coun—
sel. Joint meetings of the two boards or commis-
sions are most valuable to the success of future
developments. Boards of recreation must contin-
ually be doing research and making surveys in
order to be assured that they are on the right way
for future activity.

The majority of members of boards of recrea-
tion who take an active part feel that it is a real
education for them and they serve with a great
amount of enthusiasm. The possibilities and the
successes to come in the field of recreation lie
with a conscientious, enthusiastic and cooperative
board of recreation.

The Will to Endow

(Continued from page 622)
Is Yours an Informed Constituency?

It goes without saying that every organization

 

should keep its constituency so informed of its
work and of its aspirations in behalf of the com-
munity as to cause that community to wish to
support it both through current gifts and through
legacies. Many gifts are lost annually because of
neglect at this point.

It is wise to secure the interest and apprecia-
tion of this work from the legal and banking pro—
fessions since more often than we realize clients
and customers seek the advice of these profes-
sions when they are about to distribute their
wealth. Many of these clients and customers,
when they finally decide to draw their wills or to
create trust funds, have no'specific organization
in mind when asked the question, “Do you wish
to leave a sum to an organization of a charitable,
religious or educational nature P” These donors
often ask their legal advisers this question. “To
what organization shall I leave the residue of my
estate?”

Al: Chicago's Exhibit
(Continued from page 624)

At the exhibits which are held periodically the
judges determine the blue—ribbon exhibits, using
their own judgment as to what constitutes art
photography, but as a means of registering pub—
lic reaction to the exhibit, which now runs to
thousands of pictures almost all of them enlarg-
ments and beautifully mounted, a voting box is
provided in which the public at large deposits
votes for the picture which appeals most to the
individual visitor.

The picture which received the largest popular
vote in the exhibit held recently is reproduced
here. It was taken by Mrs. Marion Aldrich.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 624).

holes ranging.- in distance from 40 yards to 200
yards. In all cases, low scoring and satisfactory
performances are dependent upon the short 8 to
IO yard pitching ability to put the ball in the tire,
rather than the might of long hits.

The work of placing the tires in the ground is
light, the materials for play may be collected at
low cost, and the result is a back—yard recreation
whose attraction reaches both children and adults.
Best of all is the startling fact that Dad will find
his scores on the real course improving because of
the accuracy he is developing by playing tire golf
with the family at home.--—Ralph E. Hensley,
Superintendent of Recreation, Chico, California.

.- qu‘...‘ nun-w —

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Folk Dances of Tennessee

By Lucien L. McDowell and Flora Lassiter McDowell.
Edwards Brothers, Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan. $1.00.

MR. MCDOWELL is principal of a county high school in
Smithville, Tennessee, where he has done some re-
markable things in deve10ping play party games at recess
and at noon with rural children. His wife is a ballad
singer and musician. Working together as joint authors,
they have produced an authentic and delightful book
which will be an invaluable addition to the recreation
worker’s library. In collecting material for these old
play party games, Mr. and Mrs. McDowell visited many
aged people of the isolated Caney Fork Valley where
ancient songs and customs survived until within the
memory of the authors. No pains have been Spared in
verifying the accuracy of both *words and tunes. Each
dance includes words and music of a song, with a com-
plete description of the steps and actions which went
with it. Many diagrams are given.

Extra-Curricular Activities

By Harry C. McKown. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $3.25.

IN THE REVISION of his book, first published about eleven
years ago, Mr. McKown has given us practically a new
volume. The new edition includes discussions of neWer
activities, emphases and procedures, improved methods of
organizing, supervising and handling the older activities.
and references to more recent literature on the subject.
There is much valuable material here in the discussionof
recreation activities which will be of interest to recrea-
tion workers as well as school ofhcials.

The Nature Science Series

By Clyde Fisher, Ph.D. and Marion L. Langham. Noble
and Noble, Publishers, Inc., New York. $.96 each.

ACH BOOK of this series———and there are six—is full of
fascinating facts and stories about birds, flowers,
trees, insects, marine life, minerals, stars and planets.
There are over 450 separate topics. Conservation of nat-
ural resources is stressed throughout the books in the series
which are: Our Pets (First Grade); On the Farm
(Second Grade) ; W orld of N atare (Third Grade) ; Ways
of the le'ld Folk (F0urth Grade); Our Wonder World
(Fifth Grade) ; In Field and Garden (Sixth Grade).

Key to the Out-of—Doors

Compiled by Richard James Hurley. The H. W. Wilson
Company, New York. $2.50.

N THIS BOOK Mr. Hurley has given us a bibliography of

nature books and materials under the following titles:
Heavens Above; Sunshine and Storm; Earth Beneath;
Flowers, Ferns and Allies; Green Arches; Six-legged
People; Cold Blooded Neighbors; Fish—and Others;
Wild Wings; Four-footed Friends.

5

The Administration of'lntramural
Athletics for Men in Colleges

and Universities

By Carl L. Nordly, Ph. D. Bureau of Publications,
gleachers College, Columbia University, New York.
.60.

HIS VOLUME is the result of study made to ascer-

tain the status quo of intramural athletic programs and
of various administrative policies in selected colleges and
universities and to formulate recommended procedures
for the administration of intramural athletics. There are
many practical and concrete suggestions to physical edu—
cators and recreation workers who are developing intra-
mural activities. Methods of administering the program
are presented with recommended procedures on such sub-
jects as program content, organization of program,
health safeguards, personnel, publicity, budget and finance.

Leisure Reading

For Grades Seven, Eight, and Nine. Prepared for the
National Council of Teachers of English by Its Com-
mittee on Recreational Reading—Stella S. Center and
Max J. Herzberg, Co—chairmen. The National Coun-
cil of Teachers of English, 211 West 68th Street,

Chicago, Illinois. $.20.
THIS WIDELY USED LIST of books for junior high school

reading which is issued periodically has been entirely
revised and brought up to date. The new arrangement of
material makes the list more readily usable than ever
before. Annotations have been rewritten to give them an
appeal to young people. New classifications include the
Animal Kingdom, Discovery and Exploration, Etiquette,
Games and Sports, Handicrafts, Hobbies, and Pho—

tography.

Mexican Folk Plays

By Josephina Niggli. Edited by Frederick H. Koch. The
University of North Carolina Press, Chapel H111. $2.50.

ACOLLECTION OF FIVE one-act plays originally produced
by Professor Koch and the Carolina Playmakers at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, and on various tours North
and South. Three of the plays are hilarious comedies of
Mexican village life; one is a drama of the Agrarian
Revolution of 1910, and the fifth pictures a great Aztecan

ritual.

The Boole of Major Sports

By William L. Hughes. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $3.00.

THIS Is THE FIRST time that the basic fundamentals of
the four major sports—football, basketball, baseball,
and track—have been incorporated into a single volume,
and a very excellent and authoritative performance it is.
Each of the sections is written by an expert in that
special field—football by W. Glenn Killinger of the West

639

640 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Chester, (Pennsylvania) State Teachers College; basket-
ball by Charles Murphy of the Bristol (Connecticut)
Boys’ Club; baseball by Daniel E. Jessee, Trinity Col—
lege, Hartford; and track and field by Ray M. Conger
of the Pennsylvania State College. The editor and col-
laborator, William L. Hughes, Ph.D., Associate Profes-
sor of Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia
University, states in his preface that the book is designed
to aid coaches who are frequently called upon to coach
two, and sometimes three, of the major sports. “Only
those techniques and tactics which have been thoroughly
tried and found satisfactory have been included.” The
style is straightforward and the eXplanations brief. At
the end of each chapter is a. set Of “questions for discus-
sion,” and one of “true-false test questions.” The book is
generously illustrated by Katherine C. Tracy of the Art
Staff of Scholastic Coach.

3,000 Books of Leisure.

Published by Leisure, 683 Atlantic Avenue, Boston,
Massachusetts. $.10.

In this bibliography, issued under the auspices of
Leisure, the Magazine of a Thousand Diversions, 'books
have been listed on a wide variety of subjects including
hobbies, recreational activities, and other phases Of the
leisure-time movement.

Youth Education in a Changing World.

By Walter L. Stone, Ph. D. Informal Education

Service, 2622 West Ashwood Avenue, Nashville,
Tennessee. $1.00.

There are seven chapters in this mimeographed bulletin
which deals with character and personality development,
vocational guidance, methods of religious education, sex
education, and the place and function of the home in the
life of ‘youth. Of special interest to recreation workers
isothe hnal chapter on “The Uses of Leisure” which deals
With the philosophical aspects of leisure.

Community Planning in Adult Education.

Prepared by the Staff of the Department of Adult
Education, School of Education, New York Uni-
verSity. Published by Service Bureau for Adult

Education, Division of General Education, New
York University, New York. $.50.

This booklet has been prepared as a practical guide to
the administrator of adult education in meeting the many
problems With which he is confronted. It is addressed to

those who are actually conducting programs in centers
of all types.

Shepherd’s Pipes.

“Kit” 45.. Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough.
Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.

$.25.

Directions for making shepherd’s pipes for amateurs
are offered, along with suggestions on how to play the
pipe and a list of sources for music for pipes. A num-
ber of melodies for the D pipe alone are given.

Developing Volunteers.

By Idelle Scott Jeffer and 1' F.
Press, New York. $35. In 1a caper}. womans

Thisopublication has to do with the selection, training
and guidance of volunteers in the service of the Y.W.C.A.
It emphaSizes the fact that for sound administration
more serious thought should be given to selection place-
ment, preparation and training. It suggests a committee
on volunteer personnel, and urges an understanding on
the part of staff members of the value of volunteer ser-
v1ce and an understanding of how to work with volun—

teer leaders: The pamphlet has he] ful S t.
leaders working with volunteers. p ugges Ions for all

Aeronautical Occupations for Boys.

By Captain Burr Leyson. E. P. Dutton and Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $2.00.

This book is intended for those who have an interest
in aviation as a career, and it offers careful details as to
the training required for each job, where and how it may
be obtained and at what cost, and opportunities for pro-
motion. It covers the entire field of major occupations

in aviation.

The School Health Program.

By C. E. A. Winslow. The Regents’ Inquiry. Mc-
Gra'w-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $1.50.

This book is one of the reports being made as a result
of the Regents’ Inquiry into the character and cost of
public education in the State of New York. The Inquiry,
organized late in 1935 under the direction of the Special
Committee of the Board of Regents, has been divided
into three major undertakings having to do with the
educational enterprise of the state and an appraisal Of
policies and programs. A section of the book is devoted
to an appraisal of physical education and recreation, and
the Committee as a result of its study recommends “a
program of physical education and recreation designed to
promote the sense of well-being which comes from vig-
Orous physical activity, to promote social adjustment and
furnish wholesome outlets for the energies of youth, and
to lay a foundation for the leisure-time activities which
will increasingly occupy a more and more important
place in the adult life of the future.”

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLRY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BiDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLiSS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WiLLiAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELViLLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HiCKox, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MiNA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSiTER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MiLLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN  WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington. D. C.

‘ ——r————-un—_—-_. __ __-'_w--_4-

