.- 1.
-I.--

JULY

MacMurray College Library

Jacksonville, Illinois

Recreation in Defense Time

PREPARATION for defense is our first need in the United States. Our
first question regarding each undertaking is: Does it help defense?
Ships, airplanes, tanks must be built, and quickly. Much that we have

enjoyed that is not essential must be given up or suspended for a time. '

What about recreation, education, religion? These are needed now
more than ever before. In defense times life must be kept as normal
as may be for children, youth and for our families. Morale for us all
is fundamental. Morale is a part of defense. Italy, Russia, Germany
have used recreation to the limit in attempting to build a united people,

a people physically strong, a people ready to endure for their country. .

Surely democracies will not be less wise and foresighted.

Recreation has had, perhaps, a development in the United States
beyond what has taken place in any other part of the world. And this
occurred in peace times, and has been largely voted by the people out
of their taxes. In the First World \Nar, under the leadership of the
Federal Government, with the cooperative help of many national socie—
ties, a great morale—building recreation movement was carried on with
more than five hundred thousand people at one time helping. President
Wilson, Secretary of War Baker, Secretary of the Navy Daniels,
Raymond Fosdick—all testified as to the great value of this program
in helping to make men and the country efhcient to win the war.

The task in the immediate present is not one of war but of prepara-
tion for defense. However, the need for recreation is the same. Any
cutting down of recreation, of music, drama, sports, of the community
morale—building forces, weakens our country just that much for
defense. The need for recreation is greater than it has been, and
there ought to be found financial and other resources for increasing
the program and making it a part of our defense effort. Surely in
this respect our cities, our states, our nation will not be less wise than
the dictator nations abroad who in times of great financial difficulty
in recent years spent more rather than less for recreation.

l

' W GWczéu/r/

 

l91l-O"

 

213

 

Photo by ("fairies Howard Cunningham

"We fishermen dream far more offen of our fish and game laws. For fhe sake of con-
favorife sporf fhan ofher men of fheirs." servafion. learn fo puf back as much as
If fhe wonderful recreafion of angling is you fake from nafure's playground and pre-

fo lasf indefini’relyl we musf abide by fhe serve for pos’rerify fhe sporf of angling.
214

Alma Simon: Pam

@142 1
Haggai,“

-~

0
.vvia,‘ .qu
O.
"i

«mum am Pam

mm» W n '

i ' Jain“ "‘  l

H (Emmi-aw

' f m m: mamas-4m

a m: ,
3‘3 'i-‘i‘h‘taf'h’fév
0&0 “crux: .
IND ‘. _ . '
(an: avenue:- .
nsume 6mm aroomh
Rim Jam 11

 

and VVabansia, can be found a one and a half

acre plot of land housing a brick fieldhouse
known as Almira Simons Park. One of the many
fieldhouses of the Chicago Park District, this
park has to curtail its outdoor activities due to
lack of space. Because of this handicap the park
supervisor and his staff are always on the look—
out for new and different activities which will fit
into a well-rounded park program.

In searching for a program to surmount this
difficulty last summer, they evolved the idea of a
‘ Huckleberry Finn Fishing Carnival in their own
. little 60’ x 30’ wading pool. Posters were made
' and displayed about the neighborhood. Beside a
humorous picture of Huckleberry F inn fishng by
a stream, the posters urged the children to come
and “catch real fish in the wading pool.” They
were instructed to come barefoot, wearing old
clothes and carrying a can of worms and a pole
with a small fish hook.

The main obstacle in the children’s minds, of
course, was the fact that they had never seen any
fish in the wading pool, where they went wading

IN THE CITY of Chicago, on the corner of Drake

By

GEORGE SONNENLEITER

Supervisor
Almira Simons Park
Chicago, Illinois

almost every day. But if the posters said they
were to go fishing in the pool, they couldn’t miss
the fun. So excited preparations began.

In the meantime, the park staff had made ar—
rangements to secure fish from the Government
Pier in Lake Michigan. At dawn on the day of
the Fishing Carnival, the Mayor, State Attorney,
the Commissioner of Public Service (elected by
the park youngsters during Youth Week), and
the park staff members left the fieldhouse for
Lake Michigan. With the aid of nets they began
fishing earnestly from the pier. Finally they
emerged with a catch of 250 small perch. They
placed the fish in cans'of fresh water, kept aerated
by hand pumps which forced air into the cans, and
the carloa‘ds of cans of fish safely traveled to
Almira Simons Park.

“7 hen the fish arrived the commotion was un-
surpassed. There were large numbers of boys and
girls gathered around the wading pool critically
trying to detect the presence of the fish they were
to catch that afternoon. Youngsters were dig-
ging up worms through the community. From the
stories circulated by excited children and amused

215

216 A HUCK FINN FISHING CARNIVAL

adults, it seemed evident that Old Mother Hub-
bard’s cupboard was not bare! In addition to the
prosaic worm, the children had gathered every-
thing they thought would be particularly enticing
to the eyes of a fish. Candy, spaghetti, noodles,
bacon, liver, meat, radishes, gum, and “magic
hooks” (baitless bent pins) were in vogue.

Although the fishing contest was not scheduled
until three o’clock in the afternoon, at eleven
o’clock the children began to gather—barefooted,
in old clothes, with their fishing lines and bizarre
bait. They began “practicing,” and all over the
park could be seen dry land fishermen pulling in
imaginary fish with skillful flips and jerks. Even
parents entered into the spirit, and many of them
were instructing future Isaak Waltons on the
proper techniques of casting and reeling with
bamboo rods and fishing poles made of long tree
branches.

At exactly 2 :30 the suspense reached its climax,
for then the park supervisor ordered the fish to
be placed in the wading pool. Although this was
thirty minutes before starting time, the children
couldn’t wait and the fun began. Barefoot boys
were fishing in a wading
pool for the first time in

If yOu have never gone fishingiin a wading
pool you have missed a. fhrilling experience!

their lives. Parents and onlookers at once became
cheer leaders, urging over 200 Huckleberrys on

to success.

Gales of laughter were heard throughout the
crowd as a Huckleberry gave excited determined
yanks on his pole to land a fish which was just as
determined to get away. The fishing continued
for fifty-five minutes. Finally, waiting for the
fish to bite became too tame a sport, and several
eager, wild—eyed boys and girls bunched in on the
fish. When it became apparent that “fishing con-
trol” was doomed because of the over-enthusias
tic fishermen, the boys and girls were told to wrap
up their lines and place their poles some distance
from the pond. After the fish hooks were safely
put away, the children were told that they could
catch the remaining fish by hand. This caused
more commotion than fishing with a line. Ducki
ing, splashing, tugging, hooting, and yelling en-
sued for the remainder of the Huckleberry Fish-
ing Carnival.

The contest ended in a hilarious mood with the
dripping, disheveled youngsters trudging through
the city streets, fishing poles slung over their
shoulders, their fish held
high for all to see.

 

l

l

J

U.  Ambassador of Song

By FAIRFAX DOWNEY

VISITOR at the State De-
A ‘partment a while ago

might have supposed
that the Government was go-
ing into the concert tour
business. Around a table were
gathered representatives of
our foremost musical organi-
zations, members of the De—
partment’s Latin American
staff, and delegates from six countries below the
Rio Grande. The purpose of that meeting was to
make music a new instrument of friendship be-
tween the American continents.

Present at the conference was a square-should-
ered man in his mid—fifties, black hair turning
iron gray, who has done much to prove that some
of the most effective diplomatic notes are musical
ones. For more than a quarter of a century
Marshall Bartholomew has served as a United
States ambassador of song, known as such in a
score of countries. He has led singing from Swe-
den to Siberia, and has brought tOgether student
choruses from all over Europe in musical good
fellowship. Four European tours by the Yale
Glee Club, under his direction, were returned by
visits here of University singers from Hungary,
Finland, and Norway. His songs-across-the—sea
efforts interrupted by war, he now turns toward
South America.

Bartholomew trained the song leaders who in
1917-19 helped regiments through long hikes. He
was a pioneer in community singing, in the organi-
zation of factory choruses, and in musical therapy

ll in hospitals. His collections of American folk

songs are noted. His own compositions are sung
in schools and colleges from Maine to Manila.

Born in Belleville, Illinois, in 1885, he had his first
piano lessons from his mother, a pianist of con—
cert calibre. At Yale his interest in music in—
creased, he sang in the glee club, revolutionized
student song leading, won a prize for musical com-
position. After graduation he taught two years
at Haverford School and turned out an oratorio
which earned him his Bachelor’s Degree in Music
at the University of Pennsylvania, an opera, and
other vocal compositions. Then in 1910 he went
to Berlin for study.

Marshall Bartholomewl firmly convinced
"there is too much talking in the world
today and too little singing," plans to
sail southward this summer to blaze a
trail for future generations of student
singers in all the Americas.
old and young, will wish him success.

In 1914 he returned to the
United States and volunteered
for Y.M.C.A. war relief
work, drawing the tough as-
signment of Siberia. In Rus-
sian camps he found such
hopeless misery among Ger-
man and Austro-Hungarian
prisoners that suicides were a
daily occunence. Bartholo-
mew traveled 1200 miles, across the border into
China, to bring back ether. Homesickness and
the monotony of confinement in those remote
wastes, even more than outright brutality, were
wearing men down to the point where life seemed
no longer worth living.

Music might help, Bartholomew thonght, so he
organized glee clubs and choirs. Skilled craftsmen
in the Hungarian prison camp carved instruments.
Bartholomew had strings. There might have been
no bows had not a troika drawn by three horses
visited the camp one day with a load of provisions.
When the trot/ea left, its nags were minus most of
their tails, and fiddlers had begun tuning up.

“Then,” Bartholomew says, “I witnessed the
miracle of music—its power to lift men out of
despair, physical suffering, homesickness, and
hatred.” Suicides in the prison camps almost
ceased.

One prison commandant, a retired Russian gen-
eral, was persuaded to attend a celebration that
Christmas Eve. He came with his staff to one.
of the crowded, SOC-men barracks, sunk half un-
derground for protection against the fierce Sibe-
rian cold. A small Christmas tree had been stuck
in a barrel in the midst of the densely packed
prisoners. Bartholomew stepped in front of his
singers—Germans, Austrians, Hungarians and
their Russian guards.

“There is one song all can sing tonight,” he
declared, raising his eloquent hands with the in-
fectious smile that‘makes him a natural leader.
Then he led them in Silent Night, Holy Night.

They sang, each in his own tongue, but all united
in the beloved melody. When its last note died
away, tears were streaming from the Russian
commandant's eyes. He spoke in halting, broken
German.

SingersI

217

218 U. S. AMBASSADOR OF SONG

“This is the second year of the war,” he said,
“and tonight is the first time I have been able to
forget that you and I are supposed to be enemies.”

From then on the prison camp was a changed
place. Hospital care improved, and the mail from
home came through more regularly. Between
prisoners and captors was understanding and
friendliness.

\Nhen the United States entered the war,
Bartholomew was called home and made director
of the music department of the National War
Work Council. Part of his task was to organize
the schools which trained 30.000 song leaders for
the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps. It is no
mean feat to induce a lot of men to forget their
shyness, open up their throats and let go with a
more or less musical noise. Often the only attrac-
tion in “Y” huts and mess halls was mass singing.
In camps at home and with the A.E.F. in France
and England, Bartholomew observed again and
again what stirring marching songs and the sim-
ple songs of home can do for morale, fatigue, and
war nerves.

One night in New York in the hot summer of
1919, Bartholomew was talking over the success
of war singing with a fellow song leader, Robert
Lawrence.

“Call ‘Fire’ anywhere in a town,” said Lawrence,
“and take the first thousand people who run out
to see where the trouble is, and I’ll bet we could
found a choral society right on the spot. Any
bunch of people anywhere.”

Bartholomew laughed and suggested:

“Why not try it now, right here in New York P”

They chose for the experiment the city’s Hell’s
Kitchen slum district. If people would sing there,
they’d sing anywhere. They moved a piano out
into the street. Bartholomew played it. The tow—
ering, 6-foot—4 Lawrence climbed up on top of his
car, while a curious crowd gathered to see what
these two nuts were up to. A song was launched.

Hesitantly a few young voices joined. More
children, men, and women chimed in. Soon police
reserves were compelled to rope off the street. for
5000 had jammed into it. A grand time had been
had by all when the two exhausted experimenters
at last broke away and departed amid cheering.

Something had been started. Two small trucks,
called sing wagons, were put into operation, each
carrying a piano and a screen on which a stereopti-
con lantern fiashed the words of songs. They
made the l‘OllndS of fifteen centers established in
congested districts, and by midsummer 20,000

people a week were lifting voices in America, The
Battle H ymn of the Republic, M 3; Old Kentucky
Home, Mother M achree, anything they felt like
singing. Politicians and other speech-makers
were never permitted to hitch their stars to the
sing wagons. This was for fun, nor was there
any mistaking the joy brought to thousands. How
vastly the morale of neighborhoods was improved
was testified by welfare workers and policemen.

The tide of community singing spread from the
cities into rural districts—to country fairs and
grange meetings. It was even strong enough to
sweep through industry, where the triumph of
the machine age over handicraft has almost killed
the singing spirit. Bartholomew points out that
the miller’s song had vanished in the depths of
the modern grain elevator; that chugging donkey
engines raising ship's anchors had drowned the
voice of the chantey; that spinning songs have no
chance amid the din of textile factories.

Financed by philanthropists, Bartholomew set
out to bring song back to men at work. His ex-
perience in a Connecticut brass factory is typical.
Asking for a fifteen-minute recreation period for
singing, officials told him that shutting down the
machinery would cost hundreds of dollars; but
they let him have his way. He put one of his young
leaders on a barrel in the yard, and soon the
singing was in full swing. Workers were so
noticeably freshened that the scheme was given a
trial. As a result accidents were considerably cut
down, for eighty-five to ninety per cent of them
had been attributable to afternoon fatigue and
carelessness. Such demonstrations of the commer-
cial value of singing induced scores of companies
to include the expense in their budgets. Glee
clubs often comprise executives, clerks and work-
ers in the shops, and BarthOlomew repeatedly has
proved that music is an dil that lubricates indus-
trial relations. _

He learned, too, that music could‘heal the sick, .
bring peace of mind to the discouraged, and even:
work miracles in the minds of thementally de-J
ranged. He accepted the conductorship of the"
Junior League Glee Club of New York City on-
condition that it would sing in hospitals. Regu--
larly he leads the chorus in concerts broadcast:
throughout the buildings of the Medical Center.
Trios, quartets, and octets from the club sing in
other New York hospitals with notable success.

Bartholomew has spent vacations collectingi
American folk songs— songs of mountains, plan—
tations, cattle range, and the sea. Old salts qua-

l
l
0

.students refused to partici-
. pate until Bartholomew ap-

U. 5. AMBJSSADOR OF SONG 219

vered for him chanteys of clipper-ship days. He
made expeditions into the southern Appalachians
where, among descendants of Scotch, Irish, and
English immigrants of the 17th and 18th cen-
turies, folk music is valued as an heirloom. From
children to grandparents, the mountaineers obliged
with songs such as Cindy or Grandma Grunts

with its chorus :

' “Whistling girls and crowing hens
Always come to some bad ends.
Boys can whistle. Girls must sing.”

University students, Bartholomew and his col-
leagues noted, often become officials in key posi-
tions of a nation and wield an influence out of all
proportion to their numbers. If as undergradu—
ates they visit and make friends with students of
other countries, will not their foreign policy later
on be more friendly? And what better way is
there to form such bonds than for student choruses
of different nations to sing together?

That is the theory behind the International
Student Musical Council, formed by men asso-
ciated with the University Glee Club of New
York. Organized by Bartholomew, its member-
ship grew to 170 college glee clubs, with more
than 6000 students taking part annually in regional
contests or festivals. The group’s founders from
Germany, Austria, Hungary, Jugoslavia, Poland,
Latvia. Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, and the
United States went into action. Considerable ne-
gotiations and travel—Bartholomew alone has
made thirty ocean crossings and visited seventeen
countries—resulted in international tours and fes-
tivals for university choruses. Norway and Fin-
land joined, and plans were made to include
England, Italy, Spain, and Bulgaria. An Inter-
national song book with translations was pro-
jected, so that members could understand each
other’s songs.

Now and then a snag was
struck, such as the ruckus
which nearly ruined the gath-
ering at Munich in 1931.
Learning that Polish dele-
gates were to attend, German

singing' . . . I

pealed t0 the authorities of
the University. The next day
he beheld a strange spectacle.
Out on a rock at a swimming
resort, in bathing suits, were

"Robert Henri. the painter. somewhere
wrote: 'An artist should paint a picture
like a man going over the top of a hill
think of the millions
of young and old in 20.000 communi-
ties in our own land who go about their
morning duties. and afternoon and eve-
ningl building this nation like men and
women going over the top of a hill sing-
ing. And I pray again that they and we
will have the will to nurture and pro-
tect the things of the mind as well as
the things of the pocketbook."—-—From
American Library Association Bulletin.

German and Polish students in animated and
friendly conversation. Singing together, they ex-
plained to him, made a lot of difference.

Bartholomew brought his own country into this
musical entente by taking the Yale Glee Club on
European expeditions. During four 10,000-mile
tours, the club sang before royalty, hereditary and
musical, diplomatic corps and fellow students. To
receive American hospitality in return came stu-
dent choruses from Hungary, Finland, and Nor—
way. Again Bartholomew paved the way, arranged
manifold details. The tours were successful musi-
cally, financially, in friendships formed. Given
more time, their weight might have counted.

Even now Bartholomew feels that the effort
was not altogether in vain. A man who believes
in an idea as strongly as does Marshall Bartholo-
mew, who has given much of his life to it, will
not give it up. That is why his summons to the
State Department conference on exchanges of
music with Latin America was so welcome. The
olive branch can still be entwined with the musi-
cal staff.

Assistant Secretary of State, A. A. Berle, Jr.,
remarked at that meeting that twenty-one Ameri—
can republics are trying to evolve a system of co-
operative peace, a system that has given more
peace to more people, over a larger territory, and
for a longer time, than has been known in any
other period of history. “This means,” Mr. Berle
declared, “that the American republics must un-
derstand eachrother’s ideals and civilization. They
must know something about each other’s art, and
music, and books.” .

Bartholomew, firme convinced that “there is
too much talking in the world today, too little
singing,” plans to sail southward this summer to
blaze a trail for future generations of student
singers in all the Americas. Singers, old and

young, will wish him a suc-
cessful journey.

“Not only life but the
whole universe is an expres—
sion of rhythm. No doubt
the poet had this in mind
when he wrote about ‘the
music of the spheres.’ And
no doubt it is the meaning of
the Bible phrase about the
morning stars singing to—
gether.” From the Dance of
Life in “Parade.”

 

Nature Advising

In
Girl Scouting

By MARIE GAUDETTE

Nature Adviser, Program Division
Girl Scouts' Incorporated

Paul Parker Photo

HE GIRL SCOUT organization has set up four
Tgoals for itself in relation to its nature pro-

gram. It is our hope that participation in
nature activities will offer each Girl Scout an op—
portunity to:

Appreciate and interpret her natural environment
—whether this be city, town, or country.

Develop her powers of observation, investigation.
and reason.

Realize her debt to and responsibilities toward
all other living things. This we hope will lead to an
intelligent conception of conservation due to an
understanding and appreciation of the balance of
nature.

Enjoy the out—of—doors as the result of increased
knowledge and understanding. This, it is hoped,
will result in more outdoor activity in the form of
hikes and camping with an increased respect for
property and a keener appreciation of proper out-
door manners.

We have tried to outline and interpret the Girl
Scout nature program so that it will contribute to
the knowledge and enjoyment of living things and
the way they live which is_ the basis of any good
nature study program. Obviously this is opposed
to the indoor study of outdoor things with the
emphasis on classification and collections. This is
not a new interpretation of the Girl Scout nature
program, but our recent revision of the suggested
activities in this field has been done with an effort

220

to further this idea. The progress we have made
over the years in the nature program is largely
due to the ceaseless efforts of Dr.Bertha Chapman
Cady who was for many years the Nature Ad—
viser. Dr. Cady, in writing on the Girl Scout
nature program some years ago, said:

“The tendency has been all in the same. direction——
away from rote, from standardization, from the mere
acquisition of the names of things, from the acquiring
of ‘collections’ to stow away for moth and dust and
decay. More and more our progress has been toward
the understanding of the living thing; toward an appre-
ciation of its beauty, without desire for possession; to-
ward preserving a memory or record of the object
through picture, line, or word, instead of possessing its

dead form; in short, toward conservation in every sense ‘

of alllbeneficent or harmless life, toward a love of things
as they live, and a search for an understanding of their
function in the great scheme of nature.

“If we can but stir the curiosity. start the search, and

free the imagination for the common, everyday nature “

objects, we have given youth one of the greatest possible
gifts. Through eye and ear, through touch, taste, and
smell, life is broadened, and this means the acquiring of
as great an amount of first-hand experience as possible.”

Nature study lends itself to group activity as
well as to individual activity, and, since it is
usually more enjoyable to do things 'with other
persons of like interests, the Girl Scout organiza-
tion hopes that group participation will be empha—
sized whenever and wherever possible. We men—
tion this here because there has been a tendency
at times, in our organization and in others, to let

I

l

c...—

. by itself, and all are

NATURE ADVISING IN GIRL SCOUTING 221

‘

those interested in nature become “lone wolves’
and thereby miss the toning and broadening (we
might say, chastening!) effect that working with
other would-be “naturers” would give.

The Leaders

Our volunteer leaders carry the burden, directly
or indirectly, of interesting the girls in nature. It
is needless to say that only a small percentage of
the 25,000 leaders have much background in
nature study, but they proceed valiantly and do a
good job. They use the nature resources of the
community, such as the people who do know, the
libraries, institutions, and organizations. But it
takes a little time to impress our leaders with the
fact that a great amount of knowledge in the
nature field is not necessary in order that the girls
in the troop may not only become interested in the
subject but will take a few steps in further knowl-
edge along with the leader. It has been our experi-
ence in nature that no knowledge of the subject
on the part of the leader makes it very difficult
for her to evince enough enthusiasm to attract the
girls. But a little knowledge and the wish to know
much more and to help others to know seem to be
almost an ideal condition! Sometimes considerable
knowledge is a hindrance instead of a help, in that
questions are often answered that should, in all
fairness to the person concerned, be left to the

fun of discovery.

The Badge Areas

There are eleVen badge
areas in the Girl Scout
nature program. Each
one is in a little package

properly labelled with
such words as “birds,”
“trees,” “stars,” and so
on. This segregating of
the subjects is for con-
venience and clarity, but
we ask our people to re-
member that a person in-
terested in nature will '
not find it too easy to
keep everything in such
orderly pigeon-holes! A
bird perches on a tree and
the tree often takes on
as much importance as
the bird. A snake eats a

frog and they both become a matter of impor-
tance to the nature student. To help make some
kind of a tie between these nature subjects an
effort has been made to list one activity in each
badge that will lead directly and obviously into
another in the nature field.

We felt it wise to drop out statements in the
nature program that would say that this number
or that number of things must be identified, and
have simply indicated in each nature subject the
number that would be fair for most parts of the
country. This occasionally causes confusion be-
cause many people are in the habit of being told
just how many objects must be known or names
learned. It is our belief, and the belief of many
who work with nature, that knowledge gained
from watching or caring for some living thing
over a period of time will be considered of more
value than identifying a given number of things.
The actual decision as to volume of work on a
given subject is left to the individual girl and the
person who is helping her. This, we hope, will
allow for the girl’s own mental capacity and in-
tellectual pace.

We try to keep our conception of nature a
broad one including all things—bears, birds, ink,
glass, sheep, vanilla, even parsnips! This makes
it possible to use almost anything to stimulate an
interest in this field. It seems difficult for many

 

Photo by Ruth Alexander Nichols

222 NATURE ADVISING IN GIRL SCOUTING

people to realize that a nature program can be
carried on in the largest city and without the aid
of public parks, though they are of tremendous
help. This fact has made it necessary for us to
gear the suggested activities in the nature field to
urban possibilities as well as suburban. To carry
out the real interpretation of nature study there
must be freedom enough in the choice of activities
to make the work practical and enjoyable in every
given community or situation.

Because the majority of people know little
about nature, it is easy to see that help in the sub-
ject is of paramount importance in the mind of
every Girl Scout leader—help for herself to ex-
pose her group to the subject and help for mem-
bers of her group who progress beyond her own
knowledge. Not only is a leader concerned with
helping her group to become acquainted with the
things in nature, but she is faced with the prob-
lem of finding as many channels as possible
through which an interest in nature may be
turned, directly or indirectly, to the betterment of
the community, such as tree planting, flower pre-
servation, gardening, and bird protection.

Making the Introduction to Nature

It is probably well known to many people who
work with nature that many children (too many!)
have a decided aversion toward anything labelled
“nature.” We have our own ideas of why this is
so, but have no space to present our “great pearls
of wisdom” in this little article! However, it does
mean that a leader has to be more than ordinarily
'watchful to pick up chance questions, remarks,
and occasions to introduce nature into the lives of
her little angels! Here follow a few instances of
the way things got started in some groups:

A group of girls became interested in medicinal
plants because the leader, while on a hike, men-
tioned that country people used tansy to drive
away mosquitoes. The girls got in touch with a
physician in the neighborhood who, for a hobby,
was studying the medicinal plants in that vicinity.
He is now their teacher and they his able and
interested helpers in the study.

While down on hands and knees on a lawn look-
ing for a lost bobbie pin, a small group of girls
noticed a few ants and in a short time forgot the
bobbie pin. The latest report is that they are now
enthusiastic observers of insect life!

\Nhile on a hike, a girl was sitting under a tree
and a squirrel dropped a nut on her head. This
was the beginning of many things. Perhaps it is

necessary at times, as in the case of Newton, for
something to fall on the shell that protects the
human brain before the bump of curiosity gets
started! There is not room here for the whole
process in this particular instance—but the first
evidence of curiosity was examining the nut and
finding the squirrel’s tooth marks. The final cele-
bration was a hike to the same site and the talking
over of all the adventures with animals since the
first two nuts came in contact with one another!
We have not found the secret of making each
one of our 75,000 members (great and small!)
an enthusiastic nature student and, of course, we
know that would be a hopeless aim. But we do
want everyone to have the opportunity to know
more about it and see its relationship to all other
helds of interest such' as arts and crafts, music,
(lramatics, community life, and literature. More
than all else, we want them to find a way to put
such knowledge to use for the community. This
is, however, not going to be possible unless we
find ways and means, or shall we Say methods and
procedures, to make an interest in, and under-
standing of, nature a vital and living experience.
For our parting words we would like to quote
from the chapter on “Nature Study and Science”

in Creative Group Education * by S. R. Slavson:

“The human body (as well as the bodies of lower
animals) is organized for pursuit because survival de-
pends upon it. The nature and development of culture
reveals the same characteristics on the psychological
plane, and the behavior of children confirms the existence
of this pursuit tendency. This tendency, because of its
basic nature, must be one of the foundations of a natural-
istic education. Science, being chiefly a pursuit subject
and one that Whets natunal curiosity, offers important
possibilities for character education. But in order that
it may serve these ends, it must conform with the dis-
covery drives and be initiated by the pupil rather than
consist of adult teaching.

“One of the greatest delights of man is derived from
discovery. In addition, discovery begets power and
greater control over environment. It also makes a very '
strong appeal to the ego, and increases self-esteem. The
acquisition of all knowledge should. therefore, occur
through original discovery on the part of the learner, '
even if it is only re—disco'very from the point of view of
existing knowledge.”

'Another quotation from the same book.

“In the maze of experiences that make up the formal
and informal education of the growing personality, a'
feeling-relationship with nature is a supreme necessity.
Native impulses of man, as a heritage of earlier life and
environment, are directed toward the expanse of the
fields and forests, the setting and coloring of the sun, and

_ (Continued on page 268) I

 

* Published by the Association Press, New York City, 1937.

, ing in time for

“Club Organization

’ The form of club
' organization was

l

 

'l

. ithe club would be 3.

Cycling tor Sociability

HE CYCLING CLUB of

 Athens is unique in that
5 ——it was organized purely
' for fellowship. Most clubs

are interested in racing, or
cross-country riding, or hos-
teling. In Athens it was found
that a great number of young
married people enjoyed rid-

 ing because of the social
* values that went with it. The

l.

, it important that the rides should not last too long
,nor cover too much ground.

A beginning was made with a nucleus of thir-
ltecn, who met one Wednesday afternoon during
lJuly 1939 and laid plans for the formation of a
rcycling club. Officers were elected after an initial
'ride of about ten miles, and a publicity program
was begun. Though the appeal had been pri-
marily to adults, with the time for riding planned
|to accommodate them as much as possible, there
was soon an influx of college age young people.
llt was fOUnd that

great diversity of their oc-
cupations and schedules made

 

Wednesday after-
lnoon was a good
ltime for everyone,
as the stores were
l closed on that after-
lnoon during the
summer. Sunday
morning rides were
’also scheduled, with
.the group meeting
at a central place at
sunrise and return-

church services.

lpurposely made
very loose so that

'llexible instrument.
“Instead of having
I regular dues assess-

Bg ROZELLE HOLMAN

Superintendent of Recreation
Athens, Georgia i

Because bicycling is one of the most et-
tective and popular ways of getting peo-
ple out into the country to enjoy nature.
even though the avowed purpose may be
sociabilityl iust a good time' or some
other objectivel we believe that an arti-
cle on cycling has a place in an issue
devoted largely to nature recreation!

ments were made for special
events, or, if food was to be
provided, each person often
brought something along. A
committee was appointed to
handle publicity and to notify
members as to where and
when rides were contemplat-
ed. It performed very eff-ici-
ent service. Within a month
the club had grown to fifty
members, and at the end of
the season there were sixty-

live on the roll. Average attendance on the rides

was around thirty-five, though there were several

 

occasions on which the entire roster was present.
This is not as low an average as might seem ap-
parent, for many of the students went home for
week ends, and many of the married members had
irregular work schedules which prevented them
from coming out every time.

At the beginning, very few long rides were
attempted, as most of the members had not ridden
for years and had to get in condition slowly. There

are a number of
very scenic roads
around Athens,
however, that can
be covered in two:
hours, and these.
were all explored
pretty thoroughly.
As weeks went by
the club became
more adventure-
some and enjoyed
a number of rides
on some of the hilly
roads which are
typical of this sec-
tion of the Pied-
mont. A number of l
special events were :7
planned to add in-
terest to the rides,
such as watermelon

cuts, wiener roasts,

(Continued on
page 271)

223

Some Adventures in Vacation Reading

The last day of school! How eagerly each child awaits with breathless

anticipation that longed-for time!

To him it means no teachers, no les-

sons, no books—just endless days which are his own. At first this new-
found freedom is thoroughly enjoyed; but a week passes, then two weeks,
and the greatly desired vacation begins to poll. The child needs a new
adventure. In some communities there are interesting vacation reading
projects provided by libraries which are helping to meet this need.

Westward Ho!

By JANE KITCHELL
Vincennesl Indiana, Public Library

girls to visualize life without motor cars,

movies or radios. Today the spirit of the
pioneer, the glory of frontier days, is fading.
Among the unique and romantic figures that have
marked the development of the far west is the
American cowboy, who will'always be a hero
among young Americans. Some thrilling stories
of this period are still greatly discredited, yet his
life was a series of striking and unusual themes.

In order that this atmosphere might not entirely
fade, the Vincennes Pub-
lic Library planned for

IN THIS MODERN age it is difficult for boys and

A demonstration. at the "rodeo." of the art of
book roping was an exciting part of the program

the vacation period—-a time to let off youthful steam
——an intimate study of “Hair Pants Heroes” de-
signed to give to the children what has been pre—
served of the far west that is still useful and
beautiful. They see bucking broncos in the movies,
know how cowboys dress, but cannot tell you why
he wears chaps or bandanas. Back of it all is a
reason, but the reason they do not know—inter-
esting stories they have yet to read and enjoy.

The Main and North Branch libraries became
the gateway to vacationland, as well as the source
of advance information for parents and teachers.

The cowpunchers were divided into four groups,
Bronco Busters, Buckaroos, Wild Rovers and
Rough Riders, according to grades. At the time
of registration, the
boys were given chaps,

 

SOME ADVENTURES IN VACATION READING

the girls divided skirts, made by the WPA proj—
ect which the library had sponsored for some
fourteen months. The suits were made from cof-
fee and bean sacks donated by several wholesale
houses and grocery firms. Large straw hats were
secured through the c00peration of the Kresge
stores, each child purchasing his own hat for a
nominal sum. Branding symbols made from
bright colored cardboard were given for each book
roped (read), which were clipped to the chaps or
skirts, squares, circles, bars and triangles, each
group having its own brand.

It was not long before the costumes took on a
great deal of color. To stimulate a better book
report, each week the child submitting the best
report from each group was presented with a
colored handkerchief ,with the brand of the special
group stamped upon it.

At the close of the registration, Wagons West—
ward moved over the downtown streets led by
the Chuck Wagon drawn by two dappled grays,
the prize possession of one of the few remaining
sales barns. (The Chuck Wagon carries the food
the cowboys eat when on a round-up, pots, pans
and kettles; the tail piece, which is let down, serves
as a shelf.) This was followed by mounted cow—
boys, a float demonstrating book branding, and
yelping, singing cowhands, guitars and harmoni—
cas, reviewed by many adults who gave up their
favorite radio programs to see the westerners on
parade.

A Round—Up was held each Saturday morning,
and at that time Foreman, Bosses, and Wranglers
were selected for the best book reports, most books
read and honorable mention. An intimate study
was made of the life of the cowboy. It was learned
“the profession of cowpunching reached its great-
est height after the Civil War.” The cowboy was
reckless, fearless, yet possessed of chivalry. “He
fought back the Indians, to him is credited, more
than to the gold seekers or Uncle Sam’s soldiers,
the conquest of the west.”

A W'ill Rogers day was held whén his life, his
achievements, and his memorials were discussed
by the children in a most creditable manner. Cow-
boy lingo was studied. “Home on the Range” and
“Comin’ ’Round the Mountain” were the theme
songs. Slides were shown each week through the
courtesy of the Chicago Public Library which
greatly added to the enjoyment and popularity of
the occasion. Storytelling was part of each Round—
Up; the tall tales of Paul Bunyan, Pecos Bill, one
of the greatest cowboys of all ages, Holling’s

225

Book of Cowboys and Will James’ stories were
always popular.

The project culminated after eight weeks in a
rodeo at Gregg Park for the children who had
read ten books and were entitled to a diploma.
The shelter house made an ideal ranch house.
With much gusto Torky Chorbojian and Billy
Ann Herr. mounted on ponies, were acclaimed
the Champion Book Roper and the Sweetheart of
the Rodeo; the cowboys circled around and sang
to her “I Want to Be a Cowboy’s Sweetheart.”
Mayor Taylor and the Park Commissioner broke
all rules and regulations by allowing several trick
ponies to perform some feats upon the green.
Rodeo games of Bull in the Corral, Look out for
the Wouser, Lariat Throw, Tenderfoot Relay,
Ride the Rail and Chuck Wagon Races were
played, and each rancher was delighted with a
Lightnin’ Jim ice cream bar appropriately wrapped
in a cowboy wrapper.

A “Rootin’, Tootin’ Rodeo”!

Some 3 50 diplomas were awarded Book Week
at a joint meeting of all Parent-Teachers Associa—
tions in the city, when a rodeo was staged. It was -
no place for city slickers, just a “cowboy’s rootin’, ..
tootin’ rodeo” where plaid shirts, gay bandanas,
pistols and lariats were much in evidence. Here is
the picture:

As the curtain rises the stage is set with bleach-
ers, a ticket office and a corral to shoot the books
through to be roped and branded. There is much
noise, demonstration of rope spinning and whip
cracking, cowboys presenting ten book brands for
a seat upon the bleachers. When all are assembled
the Champion and Sweetheart are presented, the
entire assembly singing “I Want to Be a Cowboy’s
Sweetheart.” Jane Duffy, an outstanding cow—
girl, outlined the project to the parents, closing
with a splendid recital of “Aren’t We Lucky”
which so forcibly points out how fortunate chil—
dren are today in America in contrast to the war-
torn world. Munro Leaf’s “Watchbirds” was the
book selected to be roped. A head and costume
looking very much like Ferdinand the Bull were
secured from a costume house and worn by two
boys: After the roping and branding the charac-
ters came to life— Sniffers, Sulkers, Squirmers,
Food F ussers, Bed Bawlers, along with Just Me,
Greedy, Lazy, Flighty, Stubborn, cleverly imper—
sonated by the children, presided over by two
“Watchbirds.” In closing, the youthful Championl
denounced such characters as not being good

226 SOME ADVENTURES IN VACATION READING

Americans, stating that to
keep America the greatest
country in the world its
boys and girls must have a
respect for themselves and
their fellow beings, and that
it is just as important to
live gloriously for one’s
country as to die for it. Two
things, it was announced,

which help boys and girls .

to become good Americans,
to “play fair” (Munro Leaf)
are schools and public libra-

"Here possibly is the library's fundamental
task . . . to help build the tranquil strength

‘ ot the people—the kind of strength that

stems out from experience of the things
which challenge the spirit of man. And that,
among other values, is the power to enjoy
the beautifully simple things—like the wind
making melody in an old orchard; like glanc-
ing rain across a window: like the strength
of a great painting; like the lilt and rhythm
of a poem: like a song across a valley in
the evening; like green leaves in April and
their golden age in October; like the long.
long thoughts of youth; like the words of a
great man or woman coming alive again
from the pages of a book." ——-Ameti-
can Library Association Bulletin.

our children by a new type
of summer reading program
which satisfies the child’s
desire for adventure and
also stimulates an interest
in reading better books.
This program, as conducted
by the Public Library, takes
the form of reading con—
tests. The first contest,
which was held in the sum-
mer of 1936, saw the or—
ganization of a “Balloon
Club.” A city skyline was

ries. With the singing of
“Home on the Range” the
curtain fell on what the library believes to be its
most worthwhile, as well as its happiest, vacation.

Much valuable assistance was given to the li-
brary in the material donated by the Hoosier Gas
Corporation from their Old Stove Round-Up
without which it would have been. impossible to
have the project as colorful as it proved to be.
The word “Old Stove” was blocked out and “Va—
cation” substituted. Their bright colored pennants
and hand bills were used to good advantage, the
programs for the rodeo being printed on the back.
This work was done by our WPA project which
also made more than six hundred cowboy suits
and colored folders.

The library was a bunkhouse for the summer;
two life-sized cowboys mounted on b‘ucking
broncos, gayly painted and cut out of beaver board
guarded the entrance to the children’s room. A
display was made of saddles, bridles (some quite
rare found in the attic of a saddlery company),
steer’s horns and lariats, along with a display of
cowboy pictures, some by Remington.

The Cowboy Project came as a suggestion from
a little lad of eight years at the close of the Trek
Back to Che-Pe-Ko—Ke Project of I938. If our
work is of enough interest to children, if they
enjoy it to the extent they are looking forward to
the next year, if it is possible for them to create,
then we believe we are beginning to accomplish
what vacation reading is designed to be!

A Summer Reading Program

By ELEANOR BENDLER

IN HILLSBORO, OREGON, the need for an interest—
, ing vacation activity has been met for some of

cut out of black paper and
placed at the bottom of a
white bulletin board, and the sky above was
blocked off into ten horizontal spaces. Different
colored balloons, a color for each grade, were cut
out. As each child read one book his name was
placed on the balloon, and for each additional
book his balloon went up one space, so that it
took ten books to put him at the top of the board
into the stratosphere. The one who first sailed to
the top in each grade from a particular school won
the prize—a book, while the runnner-up received
a notebook. Of course, in order to get credit for
his book, each child had to tell the story of the
book he had read to the librarian. In this way
Mrs. Smith became the friend of each child and
encouraged him to read further. The result was
over four hundred reports.

The following summers the second and third
reading contests carried the vacation readers
“Around the World via the Book Route.” The
theme of the second contest was travel books,
while the third took in any'kind of adventure
reading. The bulletin board was decorated with
pictures of other countries. When each child read
and reported on a travel book or story of another
country, he was given a long traveler’s ticket with
his name, grade, and school printed at the t0p.
He was credited on his ticket with the number of
pages in any fiction book that he read, and double
the number of pages in any non-fiction book. As
he read another book the score was added on, so
that it was easily seen which traveler had pro-
gressed the most miles. The tickets were long
thin strips of colored paper about an inch wide
with a fold division for each new book read. The
tickets hung on the bulletin board showed that

(Continued on page 270)

What They Say About Recreation

a wholesome respect for the amateur, espe-

cially in the spheres of recreation and of

social c0ntrols. We all tend to become specialists

I about something or other, and this cannot be

H I N A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY there will always be

avoided. But a specialist may defeat the demo-
} cratic process if he does not know that there are
| points of view concerning reality and importance

other than his own. When the professional knows
I that an amateur may step forth in a crisis and ex-

cel him in finding the way toward right action, he
l may be said to be the kind of a specialist suitable
~. for democratic conditions.”—Eduard Lindeman.

' “The proper use of leisure is the first line of
1,- defense in the health field.”—Dr. George S.
Ii Stevenson, Secretary, National Committee for
j Mental Hygiene.

‘ “Today there is much talk about the conserva-

tion of forests, the restoration of land, and the

| lengthening of the span of life. The conservation,

- as well as the revival, of surviving folk heritages,
must also claim our attention. In giving consid-
eration to these things, creative artists now living
may find inspiration for classic music, art, danCe,

I

|

and drama based on the American pattern.”—
Thad Thomas.

_ “To serve one’s fellows is to give them what
1!. they need, what they enjoy, what is worth while.
" And if we are in search of the final term by which

all our activities and all our teachings are to be
l justified, we must find it among those things the
having of which is good and the lack of which

robs human living of its values.”—Alexander
M eikle john.

“One who has not known the taste of a dinner
cooked over the camp fire at the end of a day’s
l hike to some remote and lofty mountain glade,

who has not lain on a deep bed of pine needles

and viewed the stars through lofty tree tops, who

i ' has not reached the heart of a friend and comrade
j i around some glowing camp fire far from civiliza-
 i tion, has missed a lot of the joy of living and the
beauty of the land in which he lives.”—From

‘ ' Trails Magazine.

“Leisure to do what? To use what education
we have received to do the things we enjoy doing
and have been taught to do; to come into contact
with the beautiful things that God has put into the
world and the things that man by his skill has
added; to develop more fully our gifts and apti-
tudes; to round off our knowledge; to experience
new delights of mind and emotion; to escape the
drudgery of work and the oblivion of sleep in joys
of our own choosing.”—-—Daniel 1. Lord, S. J., in

Hours Of.

“The folklore of a land constitutes the un-
obliterated tracks of both individuals and nation-

alities that have crossed and dwelt on that land.”
—J. Frank Dobie.

“Recreation as a movement in the United States
has directly or indirectly infiuenced every indi-
vidual’s life. It has changed government, indus-
try, business, education and religion. . . . Munici-
pal, county, state and federal governments are all
assuming responsibility for the establishment and
maintenance of public recreation facilities. Puri-
tanical ideas of play as a vicious waste of time are
giving way to the recognition of recreation as a
fundamental need in the normal development of
children, and as a socially desirable mode of ex-
pression for everyone. . . . Recreation is a func—
tion of democracy.”—G. M. Glass.

“The final test of the value of park and recrea-
tion facilities will be found not in the record of
the annual total of visitors, but rather in the rec-
ord of the uses which the visitors made of the
facilities provided.”—E. Dana Caulkins.

“Spare time is the time for adventure, for the
satisfaction of inner drives and yearnings which
are the legitimate expression of personality. Both
for his growth and security every boy and girl in
his childhood and adolescent years needs an outlet
for energies, a chance to play under decent cir-
cumstances with other boys and girls. Denied this
opportunity, children seek and succeed in finding
dangerous and illegitimate outlets. Crime or
criminal conduct under such circumstances is
merely the search for adventure.”———From the
Handbook on Interstate Crime Control.

227

A Housing Development in Durham

ham, North Carolina, re—

ceived as a gift from O. B.
Wagner and  F. Barfield, a
sixteen acre tract of land which
was turned over to the Recrea—
tion Commission for the de-
velopment of an area that would
best meet the needs of the pub-

IN 1937 THE City of Dur-

lic. Realizing that a nature program is a very
definite part of recreation, and that bird study is a
definite part of a nature program, the city decided
to devote this tract entirely to the preservation of
wild bird life. This is one of the few park areas
used exclusively for this purpose, and it has aided
tremendously in fulfilling the ever-growing de-
mand for the facilities necessary in the pursuit of
such a worth-while leisure—time activity.

The Sanctuary not only
provides food and shelter for

But only birds need ap-
ply tor houses in this
very exclusive colony!

By JOHN CAMPBELL

National Recreation Association

Children of the city's playgrounds supply
birdhouses for the trees of the sanctuary

literally thousands of birds, but
it is in itself a spectacular display
of nature as well. Through it
flows a sparkling stream that
divides the area into almost two
equal sections of open fields sur-
rounded by beautiful pine edges.
These lowlands are dotted with
group plantings of shrubbery

and flowers and are joined with rustic bridges so
that the creation of Mother Nature is left undis-
turbed. It is a place of peace and tranquility,
despite the fact that it is located within the limits
of the hustle and bustle of the city.

Nearly all types of birdhouses are located
throughout the park, and numerous feeding sta—
tions have been erected to supply adequate food
for the birds. Many of the birdhouses are secured

from the annual birdhouse
(Confirmed on page 267)

 

‘ Our Tin Can
' Gardens

The authors. who are enthu-
siastic boosters for gardens.
believe that if there is any
perfect recreation gardening
may well be a worthy candi-
' date -tor the accolade! For
it is a hobby. so they tell
us. that "carries its riders
tar and well. and many side
roads will be open to them."

ARLY IN MARCH, 1936, WPA
. E took charge of recreation in
Fall River, an industrial city
of 115,000 people. The School
‘ Committee and the custodian of
school buildings were sponsors of
the project. It became necessary
., to organize over two hundred
workers, for the most part inexperienced, to oper-
llate more than thirty centers, indoors and outdoors.
}' And yet it was decided that gardening must be
{included not casually but as a complete program.
yTime was short, skilled leadership was lacking,
ilbut the children "and the soil were there, both
lwarming up fast. The thing had to be done and it
l. 'was. By April first over a hundred gardens were
l’iunder way. By May first 215 had been started.
" The central plan laid down for 1936 has worked
“successfully in practice for four years “and will be
zlfollowed this year. In the four years 954 gardens
:rhave resulted from the plan, of which 724 were
illcarried through to completion. How many more
l' 'have resulted from these nobody knows, for like

=-the atomic bombs of Mr. Welles gardeners set off
;other gardeners!

l The First Hurdle Is Passed!

l After a survey of personnel it was found that
Inthe writers of this article alone had had experi—
lence or training in gardening, and only one Of

 

 

By JOSEPH F. CASEY
and

STANLEY F. VINECOMBE

WPA Recreation Proiect
Fall River. Massachusetts

them could be spared for field work. Six women
and men had had personal gardening experience
of varying worth. So leadership was the first
hurdle and the highest one.

The leadership problem was solved by calling
for volunteers from the general staff to learn gar-
dening. Instruction sheets covering the essential
phases of the prospective program were prepared.
The chosen leaders were given a short intensive
course in theory, followed by field demonstration
and practice. After this each leader selected the
site for his own model garden, which had to be
approved by the program director, and prepared
it for sowing according to the routine established.

229

230 OUR TIN CAN GARDENS

In the meantime, at every indoor center the
leaders had formed their clubs and the members
had chosen officers and selected club names. Men-
tal games based upon gardening and discussion of
plans occupied the clubs until the weather had
broken and the leaders had their model gardens

ready for sowing.
While the club members were having their sites

approved and were busy spading and raking, the
leaders were busy with their own sowing. And
so on throughout the season. From the first it was
a hare and hounds race with leaders keeping one
jump ahead of their club members.

For young beginners it was decided that twenty—
live square feet of garden were enough to tend
adequately the first year. This is our basic division,
with larger gardens multiples of it, so we had all
fertilizer and lime packaged in one pound lots,
which is about the right amount for this area of
new ground. Older and apparently abler members
were allotted two or more' basic divisions.

Sowings were decided by individual aptitudes,
also by consideration of the probability of an in-
dividual remaining a gardener during the hot sum—
mer days after school closing.

Everyone Helped

The city finance board granted us money for
fertilizer, lime and seeds. The city real estate de—
partment and a private corporation allowed us the
use of the grounds of two abandoned textile mills,
with water and watchmen, for community gardens
for the neighboring club members whose dwelling
yards were impossible. The largest community
garden included eighty plots. Interested people
and dealers augmented our supplies with seeds,
plants, summer bulbs and a’few tools. The tool
problem, however, has always remained trouble—
some. Each club tried to buy one of each of the
larger tools and each of these would travel to
hfteen or twenty gardens in turn.

Where We Gardened

Where possible, gardens were located in the
yards of dwellings. This almost invariably brought
in members of the family and other residents as
converts, orthodox or independent. Members
without yard facilities who were far from the

community gardens grouped together by arrange-
ment on private land.

The search for land drove many boys to estab—
lish gardens in places which ordinary practice
would condemn as hopeless, such places, for ex—

ample, as ash dumps. So many old cans and other
trash had to be cleared from these sites that we
dubbed them “tin can” gardens and adopted them
as our symbol, though our clubs also included
many members who had the best of advantages
and consequent results. The “tin can” gardens
were all big producers, which says much for aged
coal ash in gardens.

Since that first hectic year we have modified,
expanded and contracted variOUS phases of our
program, naturally, as experience or necessity
dictated.

A Few of Our Activities

We have found that most beginners have
trouble raising flowers from seed in the open
ground available to them. So we have secured
space in a hothouse for starting the more difficult
species for the less competent, as well as tomato
plants for all.

In 1937 and 1938 we were flooded with requests
for advice to elder gardeners. We did what we
could. We added an advisory service for public
or semi—public institutions. At the local tubercu—
losis hospital we installed and filled boxes and
helped interested patients to sow and tend them.

Our leaders are now selected about the middle
of February, about the time when our hothouse
preparations for the coming spring are started.
Clubs get underway indoors late in the month or
in early March, for radishes can be started late
that month. We have added some indoor work in
pot plant culture, but lack of facilities limits this.
A simple primer of plant culture was prepared
for us by the garden columnist of the local news-
paper and is distributed in quantity in late winter.

During March we are able to make use of a‘
few improvised cold and hot frames for starting.
lettuce and cabbage. Second-hand loose bricks,
and second—hand sash are used. In March and.
April we conduct garden forums and discussions
for outside organizations, which is about the onlyl
way we can afford to give time to adults in gen-J
eral. We encourage them, as we do our club-
members, to plant both iiowers and vegetables.

OUr mimeographed instruction sheets now?
number nine, most of them devised by us, but'
several based upon articles in periodicals. we:
make a practice of passing around other helpful
printed material and make frequent inspections,
Club members like to be inspected and all members.

are listed and graded, with a detailed assay of:
their gardens.

___ -

OUR TIN CAN GARDENS

During the gardening season the keeping of
scrapbooks is encouraged. We have held only one
show, for which a dealer provided prizes of gar—
den equipment. We give no prizes at all and have
never seen the need of any, and we are well aware
of many disadvantages. We do distribute choice
seedlings to progressive club members. There are
no charges, and expenditures by members are
voluntary.

In the fall we sow all gardens, where this is
practicable, with winter rye for conditioning and
fertilizing.

Into the discussion which has developed in some
quarters as to whether the spirit of competition
should be fostered in gardening, we draw atten-
tion to our statement that we see no need for
prizes, are even against them, and then state that
the utilization of the competitive spirit is one of

, the leader’s greatest aids. Our leaders try to place

i

two private gardens near enough to each other so
that progress is compared, but never obviously.
Our guiding principle in selecting club mem-
bers—~for the requests always have exceeded fa-
cilities—-is a missionary one. Gardening lasts most
people for life and is a form of recreation that
stands on its own feet, needing no outside super-
vision once it becomes a habit. Consequently we

| try to include each year as many new members as

l

9

possible, turning the old members loose as soon
as they are experienced. Many set up gardens of
their own accord. As one old amateur phrased it
for us, if you “catch them young and start them
right" the resulting benefit to the individual in
physical and emotional health is incalculable.

Future Plans
This year we hope to combine in one venture

éthe advantages of camping and of gardening. It

l l
I v establish a community gar-
iden in a natural setting

.facilities for one third of
' the gardening group in ro-
' tation every two days. For
.camp gardens, we believe,
'would add a wagon to a

is by no means assured, but as soon as circum-
stances allow we intend to

with ove rnight camping

hobby already full of life
.and vigor. Its passengers
would be carried more cer-
‘tainly toward that reserve
:security so valued in

"The returns that one gets from a garden are
of varied kinds. There are the material pro- is
ducts—flowersI vegetableI fruits—to be en-
ioyed through the several senses and thereby
doubly enjoyed. There is the physical bene-
tit and enioyable recreation to be gained
from garden work. There is the pride of own-
ership of something tine and beautiful' and
the inspiration of working hand in hand with
nature in creating it. . . . And always there is
the well-merited satisfaction of accomplish-
ing something that benetits the community—
ot taking a step. however small. toward that
noble goal—a more beautiful America."—-E.
L. D. Seymour in The Garden Encyclopedia.

231

France and at last reaching appreciation here—
that partnership with God’s earth which has
always cushioned the blows of economic adversity.
It is, at least, an easily and pleasurably attained
form of insurance against the disaster of indus-
trial inadequacy. Such a fortunate result might
well be an economic byproduct of what is essen-
tially a real recreation for the average city person.
The recreational value, however, is primary, for
we know that the things we really live by are
those creative things we do by choice—an increas-
ingly diflicult achievement in a world growing
ever more complex.

Statistics and Commentary

Gardens Seeds Furnished Cost to

Started Completed Flower Vegetable City

1936 .. . . 215 160 5 11 14.53
1937 . . . . 470 300 10 14 49.22
1938 . . . . 159 154 3 11 27.78
1939 .. . . 110 110 3 11 19.57

NOTE: Cost includes fertilizer, lime and winter rye.

Largest garden: 7,500 square feet, 1939.

Smallest garden: 4 square feet, 1937.

Most vegetables included in one garden: 14, 1937.

Most flowers included in one garden: 8, 1937.

Fewest vegetables included in one garden: 2, 1937.

Fewest flowers included in one garden: 3, 1937.

Most transplantings: 22,150 in 1937.

Greatest extent of cultivated area: 2% acres in 1937.

Fertilizer: 5-8-7 (All purpose). Lime: Hydrated.

Age of club members: Boys, 6-21. Girls, 7-18.
Average 12-13.

Oldest registered age (not a member of a club) : 52.

Proportions of plantings: Vegetables, 80 per cent.

Flowers, 20 per cent.
Hours of leadership: April 180, .May 360. June
360, July, August and September 135.

Varying yearly totals reflect leadership facilities.
Our recreation project has shrunk from 220 mem-
bers in 1936 to 65 at present. We plan to have
the same number of gardens in 1940 as in 1939.

The number of gardens completed, that is,
brought through to har-
vest or successful display,
indicative of the in-
creased skill in the craft of
the leaders we have re-
tained from year to year,
also of their keener esti-
mation of applicants. Be-
sides these two factors,
groups handled by one
leader are now smaller, as
the club leaders are avail-
able for gardening only

(Continued on page 274)

Dramatics Come to Life

By MARGARET E. MULAC

THE LITTLE FAIRY, dressed

in a simple gingham dress

but wearing a silver head-
band which indicated her au-
thority in fairyland, stretched
out her glittering wand, waved it very slowly over
the heroine’s head as she said in a slightly fright-
ened voice: “I have goven you your wush l”

The Cleveland City Playground Drama Tourna—
ment was off to a thrilling start!

Of the seventy-six playgrounds operated last
summer by the Division of Recreation, forty en—
tered teams in the district semi-hnals, and seven
district winners plus one honorable mention group
competed for the city championship in the Little
Theater of the Cleveland Public Auditorium.

We had long wanted to introduce drama tourna—
ments in our summer playground program, but
lack of funds made it seem an impossibility.
When, in the middle of the season, a representa-
tive of the Distillata Company approached the
Division of Recreation and expressed a wish to
sponsor some activity, we felt that we, too, had
been “goven our wush.”

Within a very short time the rules of the tour-
nament had been outlined, the tournament organ-
ized, and the program gotten under way. A very
intensive four hour drama institute was held
which resulted in the admission for the first time
by the men instructors that drama was fun!

Rules of the tournament were very simple:
plays must be non-royalty or original adaptations;
maximum playing time was to be twenty minutes
-—minimum playing time, twelve minutes; maxi-
mum number of players,
twelve—minimum num- '-

Supervisor

Department of Parks and Public Property
ClevelandI Ohio

erties; general effect on audi-
ence. Groups were given from
one to seven points on each
item. In every contest com-
petition was so keen that
often the semi-hnalists won by less than a point.
In the finals there was less than four points dif-
ference between number seven team and number
one, and less than one point between teams one
and two.

The plays ranged from Tom Sawyer to Ferdi-
nand the Bull, with children ranging from six
years to sixteen. (Next year we shall have two
divisions.) There were peace plays and problem
plays with gangs of toughies that would make the
Dead End gang envious. There was even an
original play, H is M other’ 3 .Memory, that was a
tear—jerker from the opening curtain to the last
woefully spoken: “Gee, if I ever get out of this
mess, I’m going to turn over a new leaf l” A very
lovely skit written around Stephen Foster’s Jeanie
with the Light Brown Hair had a simple ballet
group, a speaking chorus and a singing chorus,
and two principals all in a cast of seven!

Semi—finals were held in the gymnasiums of the
recreation centers or in small theaters loaned by
the settlement houses in the districts. In most
cases the plays had been rehearsed in a far corner
of the playground, and costumes and props made
at the same time. There was great interest ex-
hibited by the parents and their help was enlisted.

The sponsor furnished soft drinks at all the
semi~finals—a greatly appreciated service with the
sun beating down through the skylights! The
sponsor rented an audi-
torium in downtown

her, four; drapery was
to be the only background
and various settings were
to be suggested by prop-
erties only.

Judging was done on
the following points:
choice of play; direction
and teamwork; move-
ment and pantomime,
voice and diction; make-
up and costumes; prop-

232

Dramatics will play an important part in the play-
ground program this summer. "Our thoughts
are now being concentrated on the forthcoming
outdoor matinee season in which children from
our fifty municipal playgrounds will partici-
pate,” writes Minnette B. Spector of the Los
Angeles Playground and Recreation Department.
"The children are all eager to take part again
in these performances. which add so vitally to
their summer enjoyment, and all are looking
forward to the opportunity to indulge in their
favorite entertainment of 'make believe' and
'dressing up,' especially since we have added
so many new costumes to our Workshop supply.'I

Cleveland, and on the I
next morning played host ’
to four hundred contest- ‘
ants at a theater party
where The W isard of
02 was the feature. After
the party the president
of the Distillata Company '
presented the awards.
We feel that the tour-
nament was a success

(Continued on page 270)

Camp

HERE SEEMS to have been a
Tgreat spurt of interest in

nature lore among Camp
Fire Girls since we revised and
eXpanded our nature program
at the time the whole program
was revised three years ago.
Perhaps the fact that so many
people had a voice in the re-
vision is partly accountable
for the increased interest. In

preparation for it we had been accumulating the
suggestions of Guardians, Executives, camp coun-
selors, and nature specialists who had been acting
as advisors‘. Nor did we overlook the very perti-
nent suggestions that came from girls themselves.
Suggestions from these many sources strongly in-
Huenced the reshaping of the nature program.
Several times before we put the revision into form

for printing we sent
tentative drafts to ad-
visors in all parts of the

Fire Girls Learn to See

By C. FRANCES Looms

I'The more I think of it. I tind this
conclusion more impressed upon me.

that the greatest thing a human soul
ever does in this world is to see some-
thing. Hundreds ot people can talk
for one who can think, but thousands
can thinlc for one who can see."

—John Ruskin.

Camp Fire Girls from New York at Camp Taulalac
at Palisades Interstate Park are clearing away

country and made the final
draft in the light of this ad-
vice. The resulting program,
we felt, was challenging and
broad in scope.

The trends in the revised
program were towards the fol-
lowing:

To develop clearer realiza—
tion of the interrelations in
nature; hence less emphasis on

identification as such, more emphasis on how
things grow and live and react on one another.
Not to pigeonhole “nature,” but to show how
interest in different phases of nature might grow
out of or lead into interest in other activities.
To provide Opportunities for the least experi-
enced and challenges for the more experienced.
T 0 suggest activities attractive to girls in dif-

f erent parts of the coun-
try and in different
types of situations,

the dead branches and making a nature trail

 

Acme New: Pictures

233

234 CAMP FIRE GIRLS LEARN TO SEE

urban, rural, and others; hence to make the pro—
gram very flexible, with a wide range of choice
of activities.

\Ve kept in mind, of course, our fundamental
objective of helping the girls recognize, under-
stand, and appreciate the beauties and wonders of
nature. This for the pleasure and satisfaction it
will give them now and in later life as well as for
its effect on their mental and emotional develop-
ment.

Each year we choose some of our regular pro-
gram activities to highlight in a special project,
and year before last, because of the growing in-
terest in nature as manifested by Camp Fire Girls
and the general public, we chose conservation.
\V e were surprised at the enthusiasm of the girls
for what, to many, may seem a dull subject. One
answer may be in the fact that in camp and in
their Camp Fire groups they had already become
interested in many of the activities suggested. An-
other reason may have been because the suggested
activities represented a wide choice of things they
could really do individually and in groups, learn-
ing as they went along many of the challenging
facts about the need and means of conservation
in this country.

We were anxious that our program should be
basically sound, so we first consulted Government
services and other organizations concerned with
conservation, such as the Soil Conservation Ser-
vice, the Park and Forestry Services, the Na-
tional Association of Audubon Societies, and the
Conservation Committee of the Garden Clubs of
America. We not only benefited by their- advice
in planning the project, but, with the endorsement
of the national offices, paved the way for local
cooperation. This was one of the outstanding
values of the project—the bringing together of

these young people with those vitally concerned
with conservation in their own communities.

Some Group Activities

Among the group activities suggested, visits to
demonstration areas of the Soil Conservation Ser-
vice were very popular, especially when this was
closely related to a study of camp grounds and
picnic areas. For example, the girls in Buffalo,
New York, made a model of their camp to show
erosion. They made a report to their Camp Com-
mittee about what they thought needed to be done,
and the committee has taken steps to carry out
plans suggested. This included the planting of
thousands of trees, with which the girls helped.

Making nature trails, establishing bird feeding
stations and bird and wild flower sanctuaries,
special plantings of nut trees and of trees and
shrubs that are both ornamental and attractive to
birds, were other popular activities. Sometimes
this was done on public grounds with the co-
operation of the Park Commissioners.

Diaries of “My Favorite” (plant or animal)
were popular with younger girls. They made il-
lustrated notebooks recording the environment of
their “favorites,” the hazards they faced, and
what might be done to help them flourish.

Exhibits and public programs spread the inter—

est throughout the community. Though this proj—

ect was launched as a special activity in 1938, it
was based on the regular nature program, serving
to stimulate interest in conservation, and we are
pleased to note in reports of Guardians and nature
counselors that this interest seems to,be continu—
ing. We have been able only to touch briefly on a
few of the activities enjoyed by the girls, but will
be glad to send an outline of the conservation
project to anyone requesting it.

An activity that we suggest to older Camp Fire
Girls is that they choose a small tract of land and
explore it just as far as their interest will take
them. Often it takes them pretty far. We read
the accounts of some of these explorations with
great pleasure. The whole staff at headquarters
had to take time off to hear Betty’s description of
“My Domain—by Right of Discovery,” a tract of
land in western Kansas which seemed largely
made up of three large gullies and a limestone
cliff. Long a favorite objective for horseback
rides because of its current bushes and wild
grapevines, now most of the vegetation had been
killed by dust storms, but still there was much to
observe and record, including the evidences of
erosion. Our favorite character was young sister
Susie who was pressed into service to carry equip-
ment on the days when Betty made her notes——
poor, faithful Susie, who was afraid of Spiders.
but bravely pushed through masses of spiderwebs ;

_to follow Betty as she explored the gullies, who

slipped on the loose limestone at the top of the
cliff and skidded all the way down, who observed
a vine too closely and next day broke out with
poison ivy rash! Geology and insects most deeply
engaged Betty’s attention, though various plants:~
and a few animals were delightfully described.
Prize discoveries were a turtle shell, a hawk’s nest
-—and fossils. The report was illustrated with

l
f

l

1
l
l

- l

i l
.

l

CAR/[P FIRE GIRLS LEARN TO SEE

photographs, in some of which we were glad to ‘

find sister Susie.
Quite different was the experience of Carolyn

on the coast of Washington. Her favorite tract of
land was a state park and her greatest interest lay
in exploring the rocks at ebb tide. Her descrip-
tion of the procession of plant life from the rocks
inland was interesting ecologically, and we en-
joyed with her the flight of yellow warblers and
her delight when she first recognized the Nuttall
white-crowned sparrow and its clear, sweet song.
To read her report, which was illustrated with
pen-and-ink sketches, was to share the sort of e11-
riching experience we hope many Camp Fire
Girls may enjoy.

\Ve feel that it is particularly important that
nature‘study should not be pigeonholed as such.
but that every hike and camping trip and many
group meetings and individual interests can lead
to an increased familiarity with nature. At camp
this is worked out by the camp director and
nature counselors in various ways, most success-
fully, we feel, when a procedure somewhat like
this is followed:

The camp director engages the best nature
counselors she can lay her hands on—counselors
who not only are trained in natural science but
have the ability to imbue others with their
enthusiasm.

She appreciates the fact that interest in the
camp environment is an asset to
every counselor and chooses the
rest of her staff as much as pos-
sible with that in mind.

From the beginning of the pre-
camp counselor training confer-
ence, interest in the natural sur—
roundings of camp is stimulated
so that by the time the campers
arrive they find that the swim-
ming counselor can show them a
kingbird’s nest in a dead tree
trunk on the water front, and the
camp craft counselor helps them
to “see” when they are on their
hikes and campfire cook-outs. In-

San Francisco girls at Camp Wa-
sibo can differenfiafe between
poisonous and harmless snakes

235

stead of a couple of periods a day when they can
“take” nature, they are aware of it most of the
time and can, with the nature counselors, satisfy
curiosity and deepen appreciation aroused along
the way.

Special table decorations, what-is-it mysteries
on the bulletin board, a weather bureau, sharing
of special finds, exhibits that find their way from
the nature den to the porch of the main lodge, all
help to spread interest, the more spontaneous and
the less forced the better. But most important is
the counselor keenly alive to her environment who
can help campers see, and help them find the
answers.

How a whole camp became conscious of the
variety of wild flowers on their camp grounds is
illustrated by this account of a wild flower show

at the Detroit, Michigan, camp:

“Each cabin was asked for a contribution to our wild
flower show. Some of them were surprising in their
originality and attractiveness. Both campers and coun-
selors responded beautifully. A striking centerpiece was
arranged using a white washbasin from one of the
cabins. Cattails and huge orange day lilies were corn-
bined to form another beautiful arrangemnt. A few days
before the show, a loose old stump was planted with
ferns and dainty flowers. By the day of the flower show
the plants were growing beautifully, so the whole was
tranSported into the lodge and was judged by all as the
most unusual method of display. Dainty miniature gar-
dens in washibasins, boxes, and one on a table top, were
created. In collecting our Howers, we observed the sim-

 

236 CAMP FIRE GIRLS LEARN TO SEE

ple rule of picking one flower only where we could see
ten more like it. This way we avoided stripping any
spot. The handcraft department helped with several

flower posters. The value of such an activity lies in the
fact that it helps to familiarize children with the com-

mon flowers of the camp vicinity, many of which are
usually regarded as weeds, and to demonstrate how, by
artistic arrangement, their beauty can be brought out.
For example, one of the most striking bouquets was
made by combining Queen Anne’s lace with the rusty
flower of the common narrow-leaved dock, which covers
hillsides and fields. A flower show is a type of exhibit
which might well be repeated every year. Differences in
organization and arrangements would keep it from be-

coming too hackneyed.”
\Vhat is possible at camp Under trained leaders

is not always attainable in a group under volunteer
leadership, but the trend does seem to be towards
a greatly increased interest in nature activities and
more capability on the part of our Guardians. We
help our leaders all that we can through our own
publications and by recommending particularly
usable books in this field. “AdventUring in Na—
ture” by Betty Price, a publication of the Na-
tional Recreation Association carried by OUr Camp
Fire Outfitting Company, has proved a best seller.
We make a special effort to catch the interest of
Guardians who attend National Summer Training
Courses. These are given at camp, and the locale
is favorable to awakening the interest of even
those Guardians who are still wary of nature lore
because of their own lack of interest or of con—
fidence in their ability. We have been fortunate
to have such inspiring leaders as Dr. Harold
Madison, formerly director of the Cleveland Mu-
seum of Natural History; Dorothy Treat, now on
the staff of the National Association of Audubon
Societies; Dr. William Alexander, of the Buffalo
Society of Natural Sciences; and others who were
able to give Guardians, in a few days, a taste of
what a nature interest might mean to them—and
start them on their way.

Museums of natural history have been most co-
operative in organizing or helping with local train-
ing courses, and such courses as those given by
Reynold Carlson of the National Recreation As-
sociation have proved most helpful to Guardians.
Many colleges are now offering courses in nature
guiding, and we encourage attendance at these and
at the special nature schools. The interest of the
girls only awaits stimulus and guiding. The prob-
lem is still one of leadership, but this is less of a
problem than it was a number of years ago, thanks
to these Opportunities for training, and the gen-
erally more widespread interest in nature study.

\Vith all the effort put into the nature program,
we should be disappointed indeed not to see an
increasing interest among girls, but we are espe-
cially pleased and still a little surprised to find
adult leaders becoming nature enthusiasts.

Here is a farm woman, GUardian of a rural
Camp Fire group, who sends us her diary of “Just
Common Birds,” with its story of the killdeer’s
nest and eggs that were saved from destruction
becaUse the man at the plow knew of her interest
and wanted to show it to her in his field.

Here is a woman in a small town whose de—
veloping interest in astronomy is being shared by
husband and neighbors, both parents and children,
as well as by her Camp Fire Girls. Besides star-
gazing sessions on her lawn, it has meant delving
into books, making a telescope, and a trip to visit
an observatory.

Here is a socialite who has turned the exten—
sive grounds around her home into a bird and
Wild flower sanctuary where Camp Fire Girls may
explore at will, and who has discovered there
much she never knew existed before she started
exploring herself. As evidence, she sends US a
map gaily decorated with water-color sketches of
her discoveries.

Best of all we like the story of two mothers
(who were also Guardians) and their daughters,
who spent a happy summer earning a Camp Fire
rank in nature lore. They made all—day trips to
state parks and forests, took their families along,
and treated them to delicious campfire meals as
an added attraction. Each excursion had its}
special interest. There were rock formations to,
study, unfamiliar plants with which to become.
acquainted, shore life to explore. Experimenting

with edible plants, they picked hUCkleberries for

pie and made teaberry tea, once considered such
a reliable remedy for rheumatism! They tried
taking photographs of wild animals and almost
gave up in despair until a pompous frog agreed
to pose for them.

Park superintendents and foresters were so de-I:
lighted with people who had other ideas than just!-
picnicking that they were most cooperative and-
took pride in showing off the unique features of:
their domains. In between trips there were collec-
tions to arrange and visits to the libraryfor books
to help them find out more about their discoveries.
They started a natUre library of their own, visit-.-
ing the State Conservation Department and the.
State Advertising Council and getting their pub—'

(Continued on page 274)

what I
should do with
the first, full
round hour
that was all
m y o W n P”
asked the Of— '
f i c e \Vi f e,
looking wist-
fully a w a y
from her type—
writer, out of
the great win-
dows thirty
stories above
ground. Be-
low, the Hud-
son River lay
stretched out
like a relief map. “I mean,” she
went on, “the first hour which I
can have to live and not merely pay the sixty
minutes for something to live on, the first hour
that belongs to me.”

“What will you do P”

“I shall go out and look for wild flowers—to
look for the first wild flowers which I have not
seen for years. I look from this office window all
winter, and time slips so suddenly into summer
that I never seem to know when it is spring.
Some day I mean to take off time in spring to
look for those fragile, gossamer little things that
break through the last snow of winter before
hardier things come again to life.”

From far above the lowering city clouds, buf-
feted as she was by subway currents, by the

' . shrieking noises in the “masts and rigging” 0f

1

skyscrapers, disturbed by the swells of mass psy-
chology, this simple child of the city was throw-
ing out anchors to nature to steady the longings Of
her soul. For all of us are
timid before the overwhelming
forces of the world around us.
Though we long for the sooth-
ing delights of forest and hill,
we feel naked and unprotected
and alone when we try to face

 

Courtesy Essex Caunty, N. 1., Park Commission

By SYDNEY GREENBIE

Through the courtesy ofthe author and
of the publisher. George W. Stewart.
67 West 44th StreetI New York City'
we are presenting extracts from a chap-
ter of a book, "Leisure for Living."
which was published last

e v e n t h e
woodlands in
spring. We
feel that we
m u s t h a v e
with us some
staff or sym-
bol of security
by way of a
s p o r t o r
hobby.

Itistooawe—
some just to
stand on our
own in the
presence of
nature. The
hunter carries
his gun, not
so much to kill
as to guard
himself; the scientist takes with
him the means for making fa-
miliar the unseen forces; the photographer feels
that into his little box he can snare the fleeting
denizens; the fisherman, that his rod will haul the
pluckiest little fighters of the deep. On boats the
engulfing waters cannot drag you down; through
telescopes, the stars lost in the universe come
down to us; in hiking boots, neither bramble nor
pebble nor snake can stay your stride. Man is
always seeking to circumvent the denials of the
earth, penetrating them, dissolving, removing,
overtaking.

And always, when we cut loose and launch our-
selves alone, or in the company of two or three
kindred spirits, upon the woods, on the open road,
on the long slope of a snowy field, on the frozen
pond, or even seek the seclusion of the garden and
the company of the phlox and the bees, there is an
immensity in nature that is like the immensity of
the sea. This wind, this sky, this sunshine, this
self-absorbed life of organic
creatures puts, our narrow,
busy ways to shame. No man
can stand alone, in a meadow,
on a dock on the river without
realizing how unimportant is
his own web of little cares in

237

spring.

.233 ANCHORS TO NATURE

this great scheme of things. And so when we go
forth into this world beyond OUr man-made af-
fairs we need some simple activity, some excuse
of curiosity or physical exercise, to serve] as our
anchor in this great ocean of being.

Anything will take us out of this man-made
world—a bicycle, a .pair of hiking boots, and a pup
tent; amateur science or nature study; sports or
games; pageants and fiestas. A thousand simple
instruments lie at your hand, and any one trans-
ports you into health and revivifying experience.

See then the mighty hosts of knights of joy go
forth into the wilds, singly and in pairs and in
groups. W'ith the motor car cumbering all open
ways, many seekers for solace turn to the bicycle
or to their own feet. The bicycle is to the motor
car what the canoe and rowboat are to the steamer.
No one who has crossed the ocean in a luxury
liner knows what a sea voyage really is; to know
the sea, one must travel by slow ships, and best of
all, under sail. So, too, the hurried crashing
through space along the highways affords little
or no real contact with the world about. The
smells, the sounds, the ups and downs of earth,
the lights and shadows are all blurred into one
kaleidoscopic sensation of mere motion. It is all
well enough to enjoy speed, but to live on speed
alone is not more satisfying than to live on bread
alone. It is therefore a healthy sign of return to
some normality, that more and more young people
are taking to the bicycle, not merely because it is
more available and less expensive, but because it is
living on many planes rather than one.

With only a few necessaries strapped to their
handle bars, thousands of happy souls swoop over
the landscape on bikes at the rate of a hundred
miles a day. Keeping off the main highways, they
picnic in strange woods, stop for a dip in some
hidden stream, and turn Up now and then at some
friend’s house to which a change of clothes has
been shipped ahead.

For those to whom even this is far too modern,
there is recourse to that ancient and ever-trust-
worthy steed, Shanks’ Mare. With pup tent and
hiking boots for ballast, the tides of nature will
carry no voyager too far. With youth hostels as
ports of call everywhere along well marked trails,
where they can sleep for twenty-five cents a night,
the hat never was which could not find a happy
home at will. Sallying forth with all worldly goods
on their backs, they may gather hikers on the
trail or go on and on alone, literally escaping on
their own feet from the cares and restrictions of life.

There is much false jabber about the psychol-
ogy of escape, the impulse to run away from one’s
troubles. But why should one not run away from
them? The trouble is more often that men drag
their cares along with them. Escape, if it is from
wrong thinking to right thinking, from brooding
and boredom and loneliness into vivid living, is
not only necessary, but it is the only healthy way
for the psyche. What did nature provide feet for
if man is to turn them into roots? And from no
liaison with leisure does a more happy outpouring
of released good feeling come than from this liv-
ing out of doors. '

For most towns, there lies within easy range a
world of ever changing wonders, now grey with
rain, now warm with filtered sunshine, now black
with the November menace. Doctors, engineers,
salesmen, factory workers, college boys and girls,
meet in the outskirts of cities to become new peo-
ple. They become just woods people, sitting be-
side their camp fires, swimming in lake, pond or
sea, fishing in tumbling streams, or stalking deer
quietly. What they talk about when they meet
would not move armies or stir senators, it would
not sell stocks or settle strikes, but it has trans-
formed civilization and taken the meanness out of
money changing. Inversely, it has reminded Bab—
bitts of their souls and saved many a grafter from‘
perdition.

For the encouragement of the exodus to the?
wilds we need more and better mountain trails,‘
more and better bridle paths, and above all, paths}
for pedestrians along our highways. With our.
urban life encroaching so violently on the country,
in sheer self-defense the individual still down on‘
the ground with his feet should get a chance tor.
exercise them as the first approach to natUre.
Motorists must share the highways with pedes-
trians, but both are driven neurotic with the mis-
placed demands of each. Carrying no lights and:
no refiectors, the unfortunate hiker, if at all ab—f
sorbed in his walk, jumps constantly off the road}:
sometimes to his amusement, sometimes to his:-
chagrin and too often to his misfortune. Millionsl
for roads but not one cent for the human foot,’
seems to be the policy. Adequate paths along then
highways, or circling off through fields and woods;
would save lives and increase happiness and en;
hance property values and reduce ill-mannered
recklessness. There seems no reason why, as thf
late Edward A. Filene suggested, every contract

for a highway should not include a portion f01
footpaths.

ANCHORS TO NATURE 239

The return to the wilds is more interesting to
many if they make friends with the creatures who
live there or collect some kind of treasure such as
rock crystals. To men like Carroll Lane Fenton a
dull strip of Florida coast becomes an absorbing
rendezvous for the horseshoe crab. He finds that
the moon—snail of Maine has a strange way of
hunting and eating clams. Throwing over his nets,
\Villiam Beebe drags up in one hour from the
surface of the sea, millions of creatures to sight
unseen, that take days and weeks to classify.

Contact with the wild creatures is open to us
everywhere outside of the great cities. Out upon
every doorstep innumerable creatures are disput-
ing possession of this world with men, leading
their OWn cheerful, egotistical little lives as if
your property were theirs. With a lordly air
Buttons, the cat, steps out upon the lawn pre-
pared to defend our domain against the grey squir-

r rel laying in his winter harvest of horse-chestnuts.

i sunroom a skunk has made her
.-about the lawn giving her kittens
' an airing. Somewhat disturbed,

- me any more than I like his quills,
' a porcupine has taken refuge in

Does the little thief run away to
avoid arrests? Listen to him. He
is daring the cat to catch him, but
he does not run. Underneath the

home for generations, and now
and then she strolls defiantly

bewuse after all he doesn’t like

a tree and sits and stares, resolute
in his right of eminent domain.

" Looking for inanimate treas-
ares is no less effective than the
study of living creatures in mak-
ing an adventure of one’s contact
with the world beyond our hu—

lman concerns. Keith, as a country
" boy knowng his own landscape
I, well, has had his eyes opened by
' his friend, the artist, to the reve-
| '_ations of science. So he has in-
..vested in a microscope that he
nay extend his limited knowledge
.lbOUt minerals. Here is the hard,
{orbidding world of rocks and
stones, but here also is his ham-
ner and a canvas bag for speci—
nens, and Sunday, far from

i )eing profaned, is made more

' loly with a deeper insight into

God’s most lasting creation. Evenings and rainy
days he puts order and reason into these speci—
mens, mounts them in little pill boxes whose in-
terior he has painted black, and labels them with
the legends of his progress in his favorite pursuits.

As the geologist looks into caves or sees only
rocks on the shore, so the driftwood maniac goes
about, like the alcoholic, seeing snakes in weath—
ered stumps and saplings, or Chinese jade carvings
in gnarled roots. The faces, the forms, the twisted
relics tie the under-earth reachings of the world
up to the wildest imagination. In my own study
they serve as end—post to a bannister, as bracket
for electric light, as door—stoppers, even as for
Eugene O’Neil they served as visions for his per-
sonages, and as significant suggestions in the paint-
ing of Waldo Peirce. A collection of driftwood

"It is Jtoo awesome just to s’rand on
our own in Jthe presence of nature."

 

240 ANCHORS TO NATURE

provides such a gallery of hitherto unknown beasts
as is only to be equalled when the Dartmouth
students get busy with snow sculpture and deco-
rate the campus with imaginary polar fauna for
their winter carnival.

An so these ties that bind us to our objective
world are the links in the chains that anchor us
to nature and its truth. In order that this chain
may be flexible, mankind has from the beginning
of time sought to domesticate animals.

To us the dog has become the perfect link with
nature. When we are shut up in our city apart-
ment, he is even more a reminder of our open
lives than when we go forth into the forest with
this little creature at our side. Out of the heart of
nature he has come to us, and he takes us back
into its heart with a happy good will. Himself a
creature of intense affec-
tion and loyalty, he evokes
from us a reflection of his
love. Our kindliness he
exercises in relation to an
unkind world, and misses
perfection only in that
through this inordinate
trustfulness he is prepared
to betray all other wild
things. to us.

If, on the active side,
the dog takes us out of our
limitations into the spacious
world, on the passive side,
the cat spells rest and self—
sufficiency. The cat is soft padding in the friction
of chain against flesh. If there is a galley slave who
has forgotten the pain of the chain on his ankles,
the spirit of some cat must have lodged itself be-
neath the iron. If there is restlessness in your
soul and itch in your feet to wander, the cat will
seat herself upon your lap and say “Soul, be
still!” and I defy anyone to rise from his chair
until his cat makes Up his mind to step loftily
from it. There is no greater fallacy in life than
that a cat has claws. I have had cats for years and
know whereof I speak. She has thorns, perhaps,
but who is foolish enough to bring out the thorns
under roses?

There is a way of transferring to the country
even the artificial machinery of social life and
finding it transformed by something the city can
never give. Mrs. Yardley presides over collective
golf on beautiful lawns in summer, gay fox hunts
or grouse shooting on the moors in fall, ice llshing

"Lucky are those peopleI young or old. who
know how much of beauty and spiritual aware-
ness can be gathered unto their souls from the
great outdoors. To know how amazing are all
other forms of life is to know more implicitly
the divinity of the whole—to know more com-
pletely what to bring to our own lives. And for-
tunate indeed are those who have been guided
in youth toward this appreciation. Today. just
as truly as in the mellow reflections of Omar
Khayyam long ago' mankind has been granted
a spiritual heritage—a strange deep beauty and
peace—a nearness to God—out under 'that

inverted bowl we call the sky.’ "—J. Otis Swift
in The National Parent—Teacher Magazine.

and skating in winter, long rides over hills and
valleys on horseback in spring.

But even more gregarious collective enterprises
brighten our lives. Kenneth Bruce, as lecturer,
keeps track of the seasonal feasts and pageants
beginning to develop all through the country-—
from Apple Blossom Féte in the Shenandoah
Valley, the Annual Masque of Yellow Moon Pag—
eant at Phoenix, Arizona; the Rose Show at Santa
Rosa, California and Portland, Oregon; the Float
Night at Wellesley ; the Corn Dance at San Felipe,
New Mexico; the Azalea Festival in Charleston,
South Carolina. “These celebrations are growing,
and soon we shall have the circling round of the
seasons marked as of old with appropriate cere—
monies and drama,” says Bruce. But we have far
to go yet before we develop any adequate pag-
eantry. One of the great—
est dangers in all these
celebrations is the too 0b-
v i 0 u s commercialization,
though few of the great
pageants of history were
free from this. Inevitable
as this must remain, need
the hotels and automobile
clubs blare their wares so
blatantly? Can’t the Cham-
ber of Commerce remain
a bit discreetly out of
sight?

These flestas make us
conscious of the beauty of
our land and begin to gather around individual
spots the kind of lore that has grown for cen-
turies about places abroad. Many old civilizations
like China and Japan have through the centuries
developed a kind of poetry and ceremony of place,
a geographical ritual of affection and worship.
Shrines along the roadsides have enhanced men’s
consciousness of the presence of higher things.
Making shrines of beautiful places has exalted the
human mind, with the gods living on the Greek
mountains and the mountains themselves being
sacred, as in Japan. Thousands of Japanese, old
and young, and even ancient, make the ascent of
Fujiyama annually; millions leave business and
pleasure to view the cherry blossoms or hurry out
to spy the first peach blossoms in spring; the same
millions clamber over the mountain sides to tint

their souls in the delicate red leaves of the maple
in autumn. Great religions and leisured classes

l

.h-,._..._... —- —

ANCHORS TO NATURE

have everywhere taken the lead in establishing
such ritual of nature loving.

We have natural shrines in America as mag—
nificent as any in the world—such as Niagara
Falls and the Grand Canyon—but so far we have
made of such only a pilgrimage for brides and
grooms. The government, through its National
Park Service, has snatched some of our grandest
sites from the clutches of selfishness, and com-
munities here and there and even private persons
are extending this. '

So by one trick or another, man defeats the
materialism from which he seems never to be able
wholly to escape. At one moment, he utilizes all
the collective force of invention and imagination,
at another, he falls resolutely back upon his own
inner thoughts or feelings. Whether it is in the
use of a steamer for a sea trip or a canoe, whether
he takes sketch-book in hand and ots down scenes
and colors or taps a croquet ball across his lawn,
he is a materialist only to the degree that he fails
to enhance the little instrument at his disposal for
living.

At no time since man began has there been so
much love, and opportunity for love, of nature as
today. Ruskin, and in our time, Havelock Ellis,
point out that the ancients never knew wild nature
as we know it, nor did it enter VigOl‘OUSly into
their thinking. Greek art, says Ruskin, concerned
itself with man, and the mountains were for the
gods, safely to be let alone. Theirs was a city
civilization, involved in the problems of men, and
nature was tamed and brought safely within the
walls of the garden. Beyond, all things were
fearsome and unknown, and the word that comes
down to us as horrid was first used as horridus,
bristling, referring to forests. But with the con—
quest of America and the exploits of the trappers
and the pioneers, the unfamiliarity with nature
grew, till the train and the motor car dispelled all
fear of the open, so that no longer is there any
spot where our feet have never trod. ..

Youth naturally takes to the open world, but
nothing comes with greater thrill and revelation
than discovery of the outdoors made late in life.
Some have shed the dry husk that had grown
about them and come out on wings like the locust.
So Hutchins Hapgood describes his delight when
late in life he learned to drive a car, and driving
over country roads seven miles for his groceries,
with his dog in the seat beside him, he felt like
one whose stiff old joints had by some miracle
been made lithe again. So an old man in his

241

seventies has learned to ski, and found in a
tumble in the snow a delight the boys whooping
past him can in no wise know till they too are old
and try something hard for the first time. So to
Bernarr Macfadden, having walked himself into
fame in his youth, and driven himself into bore-
dom in his middle life, took to soaring into the
air as a pilot in his own plane at sixty-eight.

But not all civilizations have enjoyed nature,
and some of the finest seems to have got along
without doing so at all. Nature is not a kind mis—
tress, and man has found it well to provide him-
self with powers greater than his own to keep her
sweet and.amenable. Hence the machine. And
what is wrong with enjoying nature from the
vantage of that machine, just riding, just moving?
What is nature? Does Einstein enjoy nature when
he roams the realms of relativity? Isn’t music
nature? If so, isn’t speed and motion only another
form of rhythm, another way of experiencing
objectivity, of breaking through illusion?

There is a perennial snobbery of mind which
makes certain things culture and calls down scorn
upon others. Professor Stalwart exhorts you to

.read as the greatest good and tells you not to

wander over the hills unless you are studying
geology. He is merely doing what the advertiser
does who in an unctious voice exhorts you not to
buy any cigarette but his. If the lowly peasant
absorbed the beauty of nature inadvertently while
lashed to the plow, why may not the youth with
his foot on the gas do no less? Each of us has a
God-given right to enjoy what he likes in his own
way. Our pleasure is but an earnest of a soul of
beauty that may some day grow for us, too, even
out of nature controlled by the machine.

For as civilization, and especially mechanized
civilization, increases, what remains of wild and
growing nature on this globe will become increas-
ingly precious. There is no society that can re—
pay us for loss of sylvan solitude, no vitamins in
tablets that can be to us what the taste of the wild

strawberry plucked with our own fingers is. For

the individual, whoever he is, of any class or op—
portunity, there is always the great democracy of
wild nature—of the earth and that sea from which
we all sprang and which receives us back stripped
of all privilege and power. How can it matter
how we come by that beauty, whether in an ox
cart or in a limousine?

.cAt no time has there been so much love, and
opportunity for love, of nature as today.” ‘

Appalachian Trail Conference Activities

Almost entirely the result of voluntary efforts of
outdoor organizations and interested individuals,
The Appalachian Trail is over 2000 miles in length

RAVERSING fourteen states
Talong the crest of the

Appalachian range from
Maine’s finest peak, Mt. Ka-
tahdin, south to Mt. Ogle-
thorpe in Georgia, the south—
ern end of the Blue Ridge
Mountains, The Appalachian
Trail passes through two na—
tional parks, eight national
forests, and many smaller
state parks and reservations.
The elevation of the Trail
varies from its highest alti-
tude of 6,641 feet at Cling—
man’s Dome in the Great Smokies to slightly above
sea level where it crosses the Hudson River.
Originally estimated as a 1,200—mi1e trail, its con-
struction and measurement have shown the dis-
tance to be some 2,050 miles in length.

How the Trail Started

The Appalachian Trail project was originally
proposed in 1921 by Benton MacKaye of Shirley,
Massachusetts, who conceived the vision of a
master trail which, for the ordinary walker, should
be practically endless. His desire was that it
should be the development of a primeval environ-
ment, a source of rejuvenation in nature, a retreat
or refuge from a civilization which was becom-
ing too mechanized. He gave expression to his
plan in an article in the October 1921 issue of the
Journal of American Institute of Architects. His
proposal aroused the interest of many individuals
who became volunteer trail workers and carried
forward the location and construction of The Ap—
palachian Trail. Their activities led to the organi-
zation of clubs inspired with the_desire to par—
ticipate in the completion and maintenance of the

Trail. The clubs around New York City were the
first to undertake actual work on the Trail, the

first section being opened and marked during 1923
in the Palisades Interstate Park.

242

By DORA MARQUETTE
Vice-Chairman. Publicity Committee
Potomac Appalachian Trail Club

"In the mountain wilderness of the east-
ern United States. there has been devel-
oped and is being maintained for recre-
ational purposes. a footway for the pe-
destrian known as The Appalachian Trail.
As a continuous marked route for foot
travel only—the longest in the world today
—it is a mammoth amateur recreational
project originally almost entirely the re-
sult of voluntary efforts of outdoor or-
ganizations and interested individuals.’I

The formation of clubs re-
sulted in the creation of The
Appalachian Trail Confer-
ence, a federation of trail
clubs which became the fos-
tering parent of The Appa-
lachian Trail project, coor—
dinating the activities of the
scattered organizations, insur-
ing the completion, continu-
ity, maintenance, perpetuation
and utilization of The Appa-
lachian Trail. The first Ap—
palachian Trail Conference
was held at Washington,
D. C., in March 1925.

As outlined in its Constitution, the Conference
was formulated for the purpose of promoting,
constructing, and maintaining a connected trail, to
be called “The Appalachian Trail,” running, as
far as practicable, over the summits of the moun-
tains and through the wild lands of the Atlantic
Seaboard and adjoining states from Maine to
Georgia, to be supplemented by a system of primi-
tive camps at proper intervals so as to render ac-
cessible for tramping, camping, and other forms
of primitive travel and living, the said mountains
and wild lands, as a means for conserving and
developing within this region the primeval en-
vironment as a natural resource.

In August 1937 the entire length of The Appa-
lachian Trail was initially opened. The activities
of the Conference have been numerous and varied
to meet the requirements of a unique undertaking
of such magnitude.

The Conference is now divided into six dis-
tricts: New England, New York-New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland—Virginia, Unaka and
Southern. Each district has three representatives
on the Board of Managers, the governing body of
the Conference. Its administrative functions are
conducted by the Chairman of the Board.

APPALACHIAN TRAIL CONFERENCE ACTIVITIES 243

After the Trail had been constructed, marked,
and measured, the major problems of the Con-
ference became the continued maintenance, neces—
sary relocations and improvement in the route and
marking of the Trail, construction of side trails,
preparation and issuance of guidebooks and maps,
construction of a chain of shelters and lean-tos a
comfortable day’s journey apart, development of
trail maintenance technique, assembling of equip-
ment data for trail users. publication of a Con—
ference trail-news magazine, publicity to assure
utilization of the Trail, and plans for protection
of The Trail and its surroundings as a wilder-
ness area.

With few exceptions the entire Trail route is
now apportioned for maintenance among the
various trail clubs.

The Trail Marker

There was much experimentation in the de—
velopment of a standard trail marker. Trail in-
signia of The Appalachian Trail are four-inch
diamond shaped galvanized iron markers or square
copper markers, bearing The Appalachian Trail
monogram and “Maine to Georgia” legend. For
the marking of the Trail route itself, except on
high standard graded trails, rectangular paint
blazes are used. White is the prevailing color,
with blue for side
trails. Because of
local conditions,
the main Trail
blaze in New York
and New Jer-
sey is painted yel-
low, while in Con-
necticut and east-
ern Vermont it is
blue. Two super-
imposed blazes or
markers constitute
a warning sign of
an obscure turn

Hikers resting .at
Center Point Knob
Monument--the mid-
point of the Appa-
lachian Trail on

South Mountain in 
Pennsylvania ‘

which might be overlooked. Board signs giving
directions, distances and termini are now provided.
The Trail Conference has issued a printed Manual
on Trail Construction.

Side Trail Systems

Subordinated to the development of the main
Trail project, but not necessarily of secondary
importance, extensive side trail systems are being
developed which are quite as much a part of The
Appalachian Trail project” as the main Trail. The
Appalachian Trail, while a trunk-line trail along
the ridge crest with its panoramic scenery, will also
afford access to the gorges, waterfalls, stands of
timber, and other places of great beauty which
can be reached only by side trails.

Of extreme importance to the Conference has
been the issuance of guidebooks to the Trail. The
measuring of the Trail and obtaining of the data
have kept progress with the actual construction.
A series of five guidebooks with measured and
detailed directions for the entire Trail has been
made available. The Trail Conference has also
issued a comprehensive pamphlet, detailing the
history, route, guidebook data and literature of
the Trail project.

(Continued on page 268)

 

Photo by Abbie Rowe

Cincinnati Discovers the Fountain of Youth

1115 DEVELOPMENT of Cincinnati’s Airport

Sports Field on the two hundred acre site of

marsh land is no miraculous discovery, but in-
stead a concrete illustration of foresight and plan-
ning. Visualizing the need for the development of
a sports held, the Director of Recreation per—
suaded the city to transfer this piece of land,
which it owned, to his Department, the Director’s
argument being that whereas the land was lying
'idle and undeveloped, the Recreation Commission
could well utilize it.

Upon acquiring the land by transfer, one of the
first tasks was draining the land and increasing by
two feet the elevation of thirty acres. This was
no small problem, undertaken in 1933 with the
aid of Federal funds made available to munici-
palities for public purposes to relieve unemploy-
ment. Through the cooperation of F ERA, CWA,
and the City of Cincinnati, the development was
begun.

At the outset, the sports held was criticized
severely as being impractical for two
reasons : first, whatever improvements 4 f. .
might be made on the land would be
destroyed in case of fiood; and, sec-
ond, people would not come seven
miles from the center of town to
utilize the facilities.

\Vork progressed nevertheless, and
the City Council after careful deliber-
ation authorized an expenditure for
the purchase of eleven tons of grass
seed for the entire two hundred acres
by the fall of 1936. However, the
fiood of February, 1937 brought with
it grave doubts and misgivings for
the future of the sports field, and
when the crest of eighty feet was
reached, it was hardly conceivable
that the newly planted seed could
thrive on the inundated field. But
when the flood subsided and the river
returned to its course, the turf was
found to be intact, and the grass
grew into meadows. Incidentally,
much of this same grass has been
used since for sod on the municipal
golf course and on playgrounds in ' *7
Cincinnati, saving the Recreation 

244

'1 1.85:

 . __ V  ,
. “ a o

. ‘ , l
 .'k. ,4: I‘ .
i , "v .
 .. '
C  e l

'i v A - I

. ' z
"1 ‘ 3:24 (a -
a; r  .~ .
e V.

By HERBERT M. WEINBERG

Commission a considerable sum. A similar gain
accruing from the rehabilitated marshes has been
a community garden whose products consumed by
the gardeners themselves have been estimated at
a. value of $25,000 a year.

As it stands at present (and it is still not com-
plete, new improvements and activities being
added every year), the Airport Sports Field has
an estimated value of $1,000,000 invested in one
and one-half miles of combined roadway and
parking area, one hundred feet wide with a heavy
gravel base; a mile of water lines with seven
bubblers; and electric light-
ing layout with a capacity
of 200,000 watts to service

. 0 ’H
, r“ “4.. -.
" a ":v

a

1‘ " l l.  ‘ .  'I is '- . ii i

I. d" '3“  v ' A l. ' ¢  " O i“ o "7

. " ' . I , 2 _: ks -. Q," .:" w 1 \, .; '

I ‘n F“ 53". kg» in: :  L . £, "‘ ' a . IV i ¢ " .

 

A bird's-eye view of the 
of the grounds. The int.
can be seen in the lowed

 

twenty-two tennis courts, general play area, rest
rooms, and. administration building; more than
500 concrete park benches; general landscaping
with thousands of trees and shrubs; and the con-
struction of playing facilities for approximately
twenty different sports.
‘ Having disproved its critics’ first claim, it re-
mained for the sports field to demonstrate its
drawing capacity. The naturally level topography
of the site in contrast to that of the rest of the city
gave the first clue for securing an enticing capacity.
Consequently three and one-half miles of bicycle
trails, some (of dirt, Others macadam, and still
others of concrete were laid out invitingly for the
rider to cycle in safety down interesting roads,
amid scenic beauty. In the summer of 1938, the
first year the sports field opened. the Recreation
Commission with some trepidation purchased
twenty bicycles. Public acceptance of this activity
was so strong that' after a few days of operation
with the limited number of bicycles additional
ones had to be purchased. In 1939, I65 bicycles
were used for a total of
45,000 individual rides.
W'ill people come from

A‘- ....——— "—1-.— ‘Jm :- n

a.” l..-

arts Field showing the layout
ittern of the bicycle trails
' Ind portions of the picture.

 

 

Two years ago Cincinnati discovered the
fountain of youth which the world has
sought since the time of Ponce de Leon.
The group of discoverers is known as the
Cincinnati Recreation Commission. and
they have called the fountain a sports
tield and have flooded it with light so
that people may come to it at night
and recapture their lost youth in play.

the widespread areas of the city to use the facili-
ties? Attendance records prove conclusively that
they do. Total attendance in 1938, the first year
of operation, was 52,000. This figure was almost
doubled in 1939 there having been a total of
95,000 active participants. Neither of these totals
includes spectators, but it is estimated that there
has been at least one spectator for each participant.
The activities in which these participants engaged
were: archery, badminton, baseball and softball,
bicycling, checkers, croquet, golf, horseshoes, pic-
nicking, pony rides, roque, table tennis, lawn
tennis and bowling-on-the-green.

._  ,. Each year new activities were added
to make the program as comprehen-
sive as possible as well as to stimu-
late public interest. The summer of
1940 will introduce a beginners’ golf
course and children’s swimming pool.
New activities which will be available
under night lighting as well as during
the day for the first time in 1940 are:
six additional hard surface tennis
courts (which can be flooded in win-
ter for ice skating), and twenty shuf-
fieboard courts. In 1941, boating,
casting and other water sports will be
made available through the construc-
tion of three inter—connected lakes
laid on top of the surface instead of
excavated due to the seepage 0f the
Little Miami River. The bottom and
sides of the lakes are being built up
from the surface allowing an approxi-
mate depth of five feet.

The success of the Airport Sports‘

Field may be attributed to two things:

first, a variety of activities is offered

which appeals to persons of all ages
(Continued on page 268)

245

Training for Nature Recreation Leadership

ation Association began its In-Service Recrea-

tion Training Institutes, a course in nature
activities for recreation leaders was included as a
part of the curriculum and Dr. William G. Vinal
was secured to give the instruction. When Dr.
Vinal became director of the Nature Guide School
at Massachusetts State College, Reynold E. Carl-
son carried on the course as Director of the
Nature Activities Service.

Since the initiation of the nature activities
course some 6,000 leaders have received fifteen to
thirty hours of instruction in the techniques of
carrying on nature programs for children or
adults. Most of the students in institutes are
already engaged in some form of leadership either
paid or volunteer. They are workers in public
recreation departments, volunteer leaders from
clubs, professional workers in private and semi-
private organizations working with boys and girls,
camp leaders, teachers, and workers on WPA
Recreation Projects. A
few participate entirely

IN SEPTEMBER, 1935, when the National Recre—

A nafure class at the Knoxville. TennesseeI Rec-

because of their own hobby interests and not be—
cause they expect to use the materials with other
groups.

In the short time available for the conducting
of the nature classes there have been three things
that the courses have endeavored to do. First an
effort is made to introduce the group to some of
the interesting fields of natural history—birds,
trees, shrubs, conservation—and to the possibili-
ties that they offer to provide leisure-time activi-
ties and interests for children and adults. In every
case efforts are made to relate these fields to the
various age groups that might be worked within
the recreation program.

A second objective has been to provide the
leaders with actual experience in some of the rec-
reation activities in the field of nature. Field
trips are taken, nature craft work is offered, out-
door games participated in, and instruction given
in preparation of nature displays, trailside muse—
ums and nature trails. Even leaders without a

great background in the

(Continued on page 270)

reai'ion Training Institute. goes on a nature walk

 

Photo by R. E. Carlson

~Jw ‘I._‘ E, .13"

A Program of Education Through Recreation

HE READING Public Mu-
Tseum and Art Gallery

was conceived in 1904
by its founder, and present
Director Emeritus, Dr. Levi
W. Mengel, as the Depart-
ment of Visual Education of
the Reading School District.
Since that time it has de-
veloped so far beyond the usual concept of a de-
partment of visual education that we have been at
a loss for a title that properly describes its ac-
tivities. Perhaps “sensory education” is as good
as any term that has been suggested to date.

Slides, photographs and motion pictures, the
usual vehicles of visual education, form only a
minor proportion of the means that are in use in
this moderate-sized but active museum which pro-
vides, as an integral part of the Reading School
system, visual and sensory aids innthe teaching of
geography, art appreciation and nature study.
While its geographic and art material covers the
entire world, its nature education program has
been largely restricted to the neighboring region,
although the Museum houses collections that cover
practically every part of the globe.

Besides acting as a center of distribution for
the nature material that is circulated among the
schools, illustrated lectures and demonstrations
are held for the grade and junior High School
children who visit the Museum on schedule
throughout the school year,
supplementing their regular
classroom instruc-
tion by contact with

the objects, proc-
esses, and creatures
about which they
are studying. Some
thirty-four thou-
sand children from
the public, parochial
and rural schools,
within a radius of
forty miles, made
use of the muse-
um’s facilities dur-
ing the past year.

A Public Museum and Art

Gallery which serves the
schools of Reading, Pa.

By EARL L. POOLE

Director

A class in Microscopy at the Museum
finds fascinating material for study

 

The rocks, minerals and
fossils of the neighboring
region, life histories of the
insects, reptiles, amphibians,
birds, beasts and other living
creatures, are available for
demonstration, and in season
living specimens of many of
these creatures are kept for
the edification of the pupils.

While there are many complete organized ex-
hibits illustrating the natural history of the region
and of the world at large, a great deal of the less
valuable material is held for demonstration and
more intimate examination. We have found that
the children gain more through this informal
method of presentation than through studying the
specimens in the cases.

As the Museum is picturesquely located in a
park of over twenty—live acres, a splendid garden,
botanical garden and arboretum, with trees and
plants plainly labelled, add to the educational ad-
vantages of the institution. A special effort has
also been made to plant the varieties of trees and
shrubs that attract birds. As a result many of the
native birds are constantly in evidence, and the
park has become one of the most attractive locali-
ties for bird life in the environs of the city. An
attractive pond with several species of semi-do-
mesticated and wild water fowl is another feature
that attracts many visitors, besides furnishing an

opportunity to study some of
less-known species of water
birds.

One of the fea-
tures of the Mu-
seum’s activities for
the past ten years
has been a summer
course in nature
study which is con-
ducted for the na-
ture-minded citizens
of the community,
old and young.

The courses in
astronomy, geology,
bird study, insect

247

248 A PROGRAM OF EDUCATION THROUGH RECREATION

study, vertebrate zoology, microscopy and nature
photography have proven most popular, and have
resulted in stimulating much local interest in all
phases of nature study, so that several permanent
organizations composed of those interested in sev—
eral of these studies have come into existence and
have resulted in a widespread and persistent
interest.

Field Trips

Regular classroom instruction is given in the
fundamentals, made more attractive by the use of
both living, mounted, and prepared study speci-
mens. Then there are frequent held trips to the
more interesting neighboring regions: Each year
a few all-day or overnight trips are planned to
localities Which offer contrasting biotic conditions,
such as the larger swamps and bogs, the moun-
tains, and the seashore.

These trips are always looked upon as adven-
tures and are contemplated with the greatest en-
thusiasm. Through them the students acquire a
taste of the romance of exploration and adventure
that is craved by most children, although many of
them are able to satisfy this
craving only. vicariously through
their reading. Under the direc-

“Geography becomes a much more
interesting subject when it is

tion of the instructors and older students, their
powers of observation are developed and a rich
background of experience is acquired that could
be obtained in no other way. When this is rein-
forced with laboratory or classroom work, it be-
comes a vital experience that is not soon forgot-
ten. The results are usually in contrast to the
customary classroom work, which too often de—
velops an aversion to the subject by divesting it
of its esthetic background. After all, most of the
subjects that are lumped under the title of nature
study are only means to an end, which is a healthy
love of’ the grand ensemble. The things that count
most are the memories of those fine days afield
when the woods and fields seem populated with
so many fascinating neighbors, and the stories that
are written in the rocks, the plants and the ani-
mate creatures, become intelligible to us, little by
little.

Those who are seriously collection-minded are
encouraged and instructed in the proper methods
of preparation and care of collections; but for the
most part the policy stressed is of conservation
and enjoyment of things as they are.

For the more advanced stu-
dents the Museum maintains

(Continued on page 273)

studied at the Public Museum

.
0
lb

-‘-. '
0

.4
I

g. 9‘0.
.0
. .‘Iu-
I

.0.

t..‘

 

Nature Study in the National Parks

5 LONG ago as 1899,
A years before the es-
tablishment of the
present National Park
Service, the first pioneer
naturalist activities were
under way in a choice
section of the Rocky
Mountains, later in-
cluded in famous Gla-
cier National Park,
Montana. Only a limit-

' ed number of Univer—
sity of Chicago geologi—
cal students had oppor-

. tunity to take part in this-

5 field trip of forty—one
years ago. But during
the 1939 season several
million people enjoyed
the privilege which had
been the joy of the few
at the turn of the cen—
tury. While Yellow-
stone National Park

I was created by Con-

! gressional action in 1872
and other national parks

l came into existence during
the 90’s, with still others fol-

: lowing in the 1900’s, the Na—
tional Park Service was not
established until 1916.

These federal areas had

, been administered by what are now consid-

‘ ered more or less haphazard methods with in-
? adequate planning for public service or pro-

vision for present and future needs. Notably
y lacking were the numerous services the public
. now takes for granted in national parks, but
i While they were not missed by the early visit—
Ors, the scenic splendor and natural phenomena

I were less appreciated and understood than they
are today.

When Stephen T. Mather, the first director of
l the National Park Service, undertook his duties

of the fledgling government bureau, he turned his
. early attention to the development of a program

I

In the Rocky Mountain National Park

special provision is made for children
through the Junior Nature School

By ERNEST A. ROSTEL

 

Coast-to-coast broadcasts were a fea-
ture of the Junior Nature School dur-
ing the I938 and I939 seasons. These
informal trailside discussions carried
on without preparation or script met
with favor among children and adults.

to encourage a better un—
derstanding of the parks

by their visitors. In 1917

a chief was named for

an educational division

with primary objectives
of disseminating na-
tional park information
for the benefit of the
uninformed millions of
the nation. No plans
were yet to be made
for actual work in the
field, now performed by
park naturalists and
their staffs.

However, at that early
date persons unattached
to the National Park
Service had carried on
outdoor nature studies
on their own initiative.
One of these men who
attracted attention to his
work was Enos Mills.
who had developed na-
ture guiding in rugged

Rocky Mountain National
Park, established in northern
Colorado in 1915. Mr. Mills
wrote numerous articles on
methods used and published
several books on the scenic
wonders and wildlife of the
region. In California, John Muir, of the Sierra
Club, stimulated interest in nature study in na—
tional parks of the coast.

Plans were started in Washington to encourage
outdoor appreciation through work in the field,
but dehnite arrangements were slow in coming.
The California Fish and Game Commission co-
operated in the held by sending its educational
director to deliver a number of lectures in popular
Yosemite National Park on natural history sub-
jects. The hrst guided field trips were also of-
fered, resulting in a response which quickly jus-
tified the efforts.

The first park naturalist was appointed in 1920

249

 

National Park Service Photo

250 NATURE STUDY IN THE NATIONAL PARKS

for Yellowstone National Park, followed by the
appointment of a staff of two assistants in 1921.
Later expansion of the service was rapid in this
particular work, also providing the satisfaction
that an important public service had been begun
and that it would spread to all National Park
Service areas. Emphasis was placed on the ex-
planation of natural phenomena and provision of
information on wild flowers, trees, birds, mam—
mals and other natural history subjects through
guided field trips, evening lectures, caravans and
other facilities. Later came the development of
museums.

Annually interest in these naturalist services in-
creased. More and more park visitors wanted to
know the “why” of many things they observed,
with the result the wonders of the national parks
became better understood. The naturalist pro-
grams reached a high stage of development, leav-

ing but little to be desired by the public.
This was true in Rocky Mountain National

Park as in other federal areas, but the schedules
still retained a deficiency. Little provision had
been made fOr children and youthful visitors
whose acumen was insufficient to graSp informa—
tion meant for mature listeners during guided
field trips or evening lectures.

A Junior Nature School

This deficiency became particularly noticeable
in Rocky Mountain National Park, attracting over
600,000 visitors annually. A substantial number

of the visiting families remain in the park and i

surrounding area from periods of two weeks to
all summer, camping, leasing cottages, or living in
their own summer homes. Children during long
vacation visits often became a problem for these
middlewestern and eastern parents not knowing
how to keep the youngsters’ summer days
occupied.

“Why not pay some special attention to the
children,” reasoned Park Naturalist Raymond
Gregg. Suiting action to the word, he announced
the opening of a free junior nature school in June,
1938. The response was immediate. Here not
only was a solution for parents to keep their chil-
dren occupied, but here better yet, was an op-
portunity to absorb knowledge of the outdoors
hitherto denied them.

The school was initiated on a thrice weekly

schedule with a beginning enrollment of nineteen -

young students whose avid interest assured suc-
cess from the start. Much of this was due to the

complete absence of classroom atmosphere, and
to actual visual and physical contact with outdoor
subjects studied.

They learned what made glaciers, how the moun-
tains were formed, secrets of trees and flowers,
habits of the elk, deer, porcupine and other mam-
mals. They made acquaintance with the birds
which filled the air with song about them and how
to identify them. The children were told of the
Indians who roamed the mountains long years ago
and how they lived. They even studied the tiny
insects so in contrast to the towering peaks, whose
story they also learned.

While the activities of the school were in them-
selves of sufficient stimulus to maintain good at—
tendance, an additional incentive was provided in
the form of merit award certificates. A student
who had attended a required number of classes
and satisfactorily passed oral and written examin-
ations, was presented with a certificate indicating
he or she had successfully completed a specified
course of study. Certificates were awarded for
such studies as Indians, general nature, elemen-
tary geology, mammals, insects, trees, flowers,
birds and glaciers.

Quite unexpectedly, the junior nature school
on its first announcement aroused the interest of
the National Broadcasting Company through its
representative station, KOA, in Denver, Colorado.
A preliminary audition was sufficiently convincing
for the NBC to schedule the summer classes for a
period of ten weeks over its red network from
coast to coast each Thursday afternoon. Several
hundred fan letters and cards were received from
listeners in forty-two states seeking printed scripts
of the extemporaneous programs. These scripts
were made available by the park naturalist.

The NBC again took up the broadcasting of the
classes in 1939 by remote control, with portable
micr0phones actually following the outdoor trips.
Broadcasting was accomplished by short wave
transmitters and telephone line for national re—
lease from Denver, nearly eighty miles away. The
response to these programs from the “heart of the
Rockies” was astounding. Approximately three
thousand letters and cards were received, includ-
ing many hundreds of requests that the programs
be continued during the 1940 vacation season.
Tentative plans are under way to resume the broad-
casts, with the possibility they may be begun
earlier in the season to enable their reception in
school rooms.

(—4”- nun—i ,.

-r .

NATURE STUDY IN THE NATIONAL PARKS 251

In this event, children from the Estes Park
school, in the nearby gateway village to Rocky
Mountain National Park, would be used in the
pre-vacation broadcasts until children arrived
from other schools at the beginning of the stim-
mer season. During the two years the junior
nature study classes have been in session the
average enrollment was I 30 students representing
twenty—five states. The 1940 sessions, in view of
the increasing popularity of the classes, are ex-
pected to show a substantial gain in students.

Nature Scouting

Inaugurated during the 1939 season was an-
other special service for youthful visitors—Nature
Scouting, or a program of mountaineering for
boys from twelve to eighteen years old. Park
Naturalist Gregg explains there is no cost in-
volved with the exception of a minimum expense
for special handicraft work, optional among the
requirements for advancement in the organization.

Activities are primarily out of doors. Last
year’s schedules included a half-day hike or simi-
lar activity each Tuesday, with all-day hikes on
Thursdays. An overnight trip and a climb to the
summit of Long’s Peak,
14,255 feet, are highlights of
the program. Saturday after-
noons are devoted to indi-

Moraine Park Museum which houses the
Junior Nature School and Nature Scout
meetings. Here' too. are the park's col-

junior nature school, providing opportunity to
contribute exhibit material for display in the
Moraine Park Museum. Nature Scouts also main—
tain a self—guiding nature study trail, marked with
labels and other devices, for public use, with
credit given the Scouts for its construction.

There are four grades of advancement in Na-
ture Scouting. The first, “Pathflnder,” has seven
comparatively easy tests, such as a minimum num-
ber of hikes, wildlife and bird identiflcation, and
knot tying. The “Trail—Blazer” must pass fifteen
tests, including seven first aid methods, outdoor
cooking, and fire building. A “Hill-Topper” must
pass eighteen tests. He must know how to orient
himself by such objects as the sun, stars or moon.
He must be able to give a four minute talk on
nature work before a campfire meeting. The
“Mountaineer” must have made at least eight all-
day and fifteen half-day hikes, involving the
climbing of five peaks over 10,000 feet high.
Among his accomplishments are listed fire build-
ing by flint and steel or by friction, construction
of an outdoor kitchen, make an overnight hiking
trip into the mountains, and numerous other dif-
ficult feats.

Last year Nature Scouting
attracted twenty-seven boys,
all of whom applied them-
selves intensively to the Na-

vidual activities under the lections of study skins and herbarium. ture Scouting courses. A
supervision of naturalist and exblblls lelllng “‘9 5+°rY 0“ Pre' number successfully passed
Counselors, certified historic peoples and early settlers. the 51.8), test and
examiners for the were almost ready
Boy Scouts of w for the “Trail-

America, making
possible Boy Scout
advancement paral-
lel with achieve-
ments attained in
Nature Scouting.
The Saturday ses-
sions provide for
museum, nature
trail, test and ad-
vancement work, as
well as group ac-
tivities.

A junior nature
museum is one of
the summer activi-
ties of the scouts in
cooperation with
students of the

 

Blazer” examina-
tions. However, the
Scouts are told to
refrain from rush-
ing through the
preparations, which
must be thoroughly
mastered before
tests can be passed.
Park Naturalist
Gregg states that at
least three summers
must be devoted to
study before the
final grade, “Moun-
taineer,” can be at-
tained. When this
is accomplished,
t h e S c o u t i s

252 NATURE STUDY IN THE NATIONAL PARKS

thoroughly fitted to take care of himself in the
woods.

Museums Popular

Of the 609,000 visitors the 1939 season brought
to Rocky Mountain National Park, 137,348 visit-
ors from June I to September 30 took advantage
of available naturalist services, a gain of nearly
25,000 over 1938. They took part in a wide range
of activities offered by the naturalist staff. Three
museums, presenting geologic, biologic and his-
toric information, were popular points for park
visitors.

The Fall River Pass Museum, at an elevation
of 11,797 feet, tells a story of the glaciers, life
above timberline, Alpine biology, geologic aspects
of the Rockies and other subjects of high altitude
interest. Scale models and exhibit cases provide
graphic information. A ranger naturalist is on
duty to answer questions hurled at him by the
thousands of summer visitors who find this the
most popular of the three museums. Short guided
trips to View Alpine flowers, at their best during
July, are available. The museum is located on the
Trail Ridge Road over the Continental Divide
from Estes Park Village on the eastern slopes
to Grand Lake on the western slopes of the
Rocky Mountains.

The Moraine Park Museum is well equipped
with displays recalling the history of the Rocky
Mountain park area, including an outstanding In-
dian exhibit showing the method of aboriginal life
when red men came to the Rockies on summer
hunting expeditions in the long ago. A number of
display cases follow the course of history of white
pioneers who followed them to the mountain fast-
nesses and made them available to the visitors of

today.

One of the popular services at Moraine Park
Museum is the daily glacier talk. The building
itself is situated among some of the most remark-
able glacial remains in the Rocky Mountains.
Textbook examples of lateral moraines, hanging
valleys, U-shaped valleys, glacier lake-beds, rouche
moutonnes, vacated cirques, and small remnant
glaciers are visible from the porch of the museum,
making possible a clear, comprehensive laboratory
demonstration using Nature’s works for models.
An oriented relief map of the park enables the lec-
turing naturalist to tie in the story of the Big
Thompson glacial system visible from the museum
with the entire series of glacial valleys in the park.

A third museum, consisting entirely of bird and

mammal displays, is located at Park Headquarters
near Estes Park Village. Shown are the beaver
in their natural habitat, ptarmigan, snowshoe rab-
bits, weasels, po'rcupines and other wildlife. Il-
lustrated evening lectures are presented here on
twice weekly schedules.

Other Activities

Outdoor Lectures. Outdoor lectures are offered
nightly in an amphitheater near Moraine Park
museum, where guest programs of outstanding
merit, presenting nationally known naturalists or
other figures, are offered on Sunday evenings;
Campfire lectures are presented at smaller outdoor
amphitheaters at Glacier Basin and Aspenglen,
two beautifully situated government-operated free
outdoor camp grounds.

Hiking Trips. Increasingly more popular every
year are the guided hiking trips. On early morn-
ing bird walks, ranger naturalists identify the
songs of birds along the trail. Two—hour nature
study walks providing special study of trees, flow—
ers, or of geologic features are scheduled regu-
larly. Half-day and all-day hikes to points of out-
standing scenic and scientific interest draw by far
the largest following of any of the field activities
conducted by the naturalists. In great favor is a
strenuous hike to Tyndall and Andrews Glaciers
with the naturalist. It is not uncommon for him

to be accompanied by as many as seventy eager
hikers.

Wildlife Watch Parties. In the cool of summer

evenings “wildlife watch parties” are popular,
especially those attempting observations of the
wily beaver, whose dams are familiar sights
throughout the park, but who himself is seldom
seen. Often following campfire programs, ranger
naturalists lead game stalking caravans to mead-
ows where deer, elk and occasional predators,
coyotes and bobcats, may be watched at night with
the aid of spotlights. On other evenings, lectures
are followed by “star gazings” near the amphi-
theater, led by naturalists having a knowledge of
astronomy.

Camera Caravans. Camera fans were given a
new service last summer in the form of camera
caravans, which took their members to points of
outstanding scenic interest. There a ranger nat-
uralist versed in camera art aided visitors in get-
ting the best out of their pictures. He explained
the use of filters, best camera angles, exposures

(Continued on page 269)

g AVE YOU EVER, on a dark night,
a H watched from a pier the
‘ body of a swimmer outlined with silvery
i phosphorescence as he made his long even strokes?
Or did you, by full-moon-notice as you glided
down the river, observe that the paddles on the

. i shaded side of the canoe were rimmed with the

same silvery sheen?
One night when we returned from camp fire,

_ the tide was low. The girls played the flashlights
l as they crouched over the shallow water. Baby
eels, a collection of minnows, scampering crabs
and water nymphs drew near. Flashlights off—
dragging their toes through the water, the girls
saw the same silvery streaks.
Then their fingers became
strainers. Just colorless
comb jellies were retained
in the palms. Such animals
were slid in the glass jars
containing brackish river
l water. Pastel ciliated escala-
‘ tors resembling combs ar-
ranged in transverse rows
propelled them forward.
l Oystermen of the Chesa—
peake Bay tell us that sea-
sons when jellyfish are
abundant these comb jellies
are scarce and more oyster
spats appear. These cteno—
phores, which we call comb
jellies, eat the young free
swimming oyster larva. It happens our jellyfish
feed on ctenophores. Hence our thought on in-
D terdependence, or how an insignificant animal or
t plant may be food indirectly for man.
' ' Such observations may not be measurable as
is athletic prowess. Days later, Matilda in-
creased her knowledge of the big world when one
night her shoe was tipped off the pier while she
fished. In our cabin that night (“Pawa in Print”
was in need of new contributors), I suggested that
she write of the adventures of her new shoe at
the bottom of the river. That was an idea. Im-
mediately she stopped crying and slept. Proudly
'l the next day she submitted her fanciful story in-
| terspersed with facts. All marine characters with

li

 

 

 

By LULA A. MILLER

 

j: ' In Defense of Nature Study

whom she had flashlight or casual
swimming acquaintance had visited
her shoe. This story was verihed later by the
recovered shoe.

An ever-present beach must be monotonous.
“Why do We have four feet of beach some days,
on others none?” Never did we quite make the
few miles to Chesapeake Bay during our free
time while the tide was out. What causes tides?
What does one find, anyway, on such a beach at
the base of water-etched cliffs over which,honey-
suckles'and briars wrestle? A snail’s short soli—
tary path, especially if he remained on it, always
delights a child. How does one interpret two
series of tracks of unequal
sizes, then scuffled sand—
hnally one series, the victor,
leading from this scene?
Can you really eat strings
of wild black cherries?
Does the empty shell of the
blue crab mean that it has
lost its life, or has it just
grown out? After all, the in-
convenience we save our-
selves by having an inside
skeleton! N 0 one had to
miss the overnight schooner
trip on the Bay because his
shell hadn’t hardened.

One may search for
agates—just the rose or the
clear are worthwhile on the
river. Many appear clear when wet, but drying
determines their beauty. Driftwood and abandoned
skiffs with writhing symbols made by mollusks,
called shipworms, indicate the necessity for creo-
soting piles of the sea wall or pier.

Father fishes with costly reel and tackle.
Danghter at camp selects and cuts poles, ties hook
and sinker on line, fishes from the pier or row—
boat and likes it. Never disrupt the ancient idea,
“Fish bite not, if you talk.” Fishing defines pa—
tience. But, when they do bite! On the following
morning, at the water’s edge, you cook the fish you
caught and cleaned. Some girls make their first
fire or cook their first meal at this time.

Now crabs are different. Beyond low tide level

253

254 IN DEFENSE OF NATURE STUDY

there is a live box where crabs are kept until
cooking time. If a child does insist that the wee
crab is at least three inches, let her measure it.
It’s just as necessary to learn sportsmanship in
fishing and crabbing as in archery or tennis. At no
better time can one explain the word conservation.
Any old—timer on the Bay speaks of the scarcity
of crabs due to needless destruction of the young.

A camp possessing both an Indian name and a
virgin forest can easily have its Indian garden.
Each species of tree or flower can be identified
and so tagged that its common name, scientific
name, its use or some peculiar habit may be noted.
In defense of scientific name, a common spurge
has thirty names ranging from “Kiss—Me—Quick”
to “Grave Yard Plant.” Twenty—eight interven—
ing names, mark you! Suppose you called your
dog Rex. Perhaps he was lost and could be iden-
tified only by his name Rex, but each of your
thirty friends knew this dog by a name unknown
to any of the others of the group or by you. Poor
doggie!

In thisgarden, untouchables should be listed—
trailing ground pine, lady’s slipper, dogwood and
the rhododendron. Even in a state where it is per-
missible to cut the dogwood, never during the
summer camping season should its leaves or ber-
ries be used for decorations. So why not cut for
decorative purposes the gums, locusts or maples?
If several are standing together, cut the less de-
sirable if it will serve your purpose as well. Oc—
casionally transplanting may be done. Try plant-
ing new patches of the ground pine (Ly copodium
complanatum {labelli-
forme.)

An Indian leaves no
signs of his camping
ground except for tepee
poles placed in the top
of trees. Every child
must realize her camp
should be as beautiful
for the next group of
campers as she found
it. Certainly use its nat-
ural resources. Select
fern fronds so that no
part of the bed will be
shaggy. Mar no trail by
picking flowers or cut-
ting shrubbery on its
very edge.

Legends are most ef-

 

Photo and copyright by Fay Welch

fective on a trail while resting. Carry along a
leaf or some reminder for recall. It’s even fun to
pretend one is lost. “What plants could you use
for food, tea, medicine or shelter?” At once some
one would suggest making candles from the wax
secured by boiling berries of the bayberry as did
the early colonists.

Nature games include treasure hunts and
memory relays. Memory relays are best while
resting on the trail or perhaps the following day
when just loahng in some favorite spot.

During the week of rains, dress up the station-
ery with leaf prints. Common names of a few
plants may be learned indirectly. Usually a few
holes are washed out in the paths. Anchor small
cedars in such places. Those returning the fol-
lowing year will be gratified to find soil had filled
such gullies.

The best lessons are spontaneous. I, personally,
pass up snakes but never snake stories or photo-
graphs! One morning a few of us had reached
the barren pine cliff. This suggested paradise so
far as freedom from snakes was concerned.
Snakes prior to this had not been mentioned where
they rightfully belonged. Betty announced, “I
won’t sit here. Maybe snakes are here.” Even
the pines were so tall, one felt a coil would not
suddenly dangle from a branch. Her fear was
based largely on stories told by her brother. Be-
fore we left, she was lounging with the group
asking questions indicative of interest concerning
the balance of nature.

How is one to know about athlete’s nose?
Rena had it, so she in—
formed the other ten—
year—olds. Symptoms:
Quoting Rena, “I can
breathe normally under
water.”

In such emergency
ask the reciters: “Does
she swim well?”

“In addition to this
nose, you say she dog
paddles?” It was then
mail time so far as they
were concerned!

The winter garden in
a fish bowl has a gen-
eral appeal. It’s some«
thing mother or grand— ~
mother will enjoy. Such

(Continued on page 267)

W612

 

- -._.—._..‘n. - _-, .,

Are You Coming to the Congress?

U E CERTAINLY ARE”—
w reply more than five
hundred enthusias—
tic persons from all parts of
the United States who have
already, five months before the Congress, sent in
their cards to the office of the National Recreation
Association. These are some of the people who
consider attendance at the annual National Rec-
reation Congress an essential for their professional
development and for the enriching of their local
recreation programs. If they are asked why rec—
reation workers will especially want to attend the
Congress this year they will say:

Present world conditions are a challenge to all
of our thinking about the real values in life and
how they may be realized. \V e need fresh vision
and new courage to go forward to new and un-
tried tasks.

The whole movement toward military prepared-
ness in this country has tremendous implications
for all recreation leaders. We will have new re-
sponsibilities thrust upon us. New financial and
administrative problems will arise.

New program methods will be necessary. We
will all need to counsel together if the recreation
movement is to meet adequately the tasks that lie
ahead.

Our laymen will need as never before to lend
their vision and wisdom to the deliberations of
this Congress. Their sound judgment, their broad
experience, their deep concern for the welfare of
their communities and for the nation as a whole
must be shared.

Executives and leaders who are new in the
work will want to catch the spirit of this great
movement as it faces new tasks and reviews the
experience of the past. New ideas, new plans,
and new methods are important but new inspira—
tion, new hope, new faith in the movement must
be the driving force behind all plans and activities.

The nature of the service, which present day
conditions will demand, will doubtless call for
greater cooperation on the part of all recreation
agencies. The presence of representatives from
all kinds of recreation agencies, public and pri-
vate, in the Congress will make possible confer—
ences and personal relationships which will do

From all over the country they
are coming to Cleveland, Ohio,
September 30-October 14, |940

much to stimulate the kind
of cooperative thinking,
leadership and activity which
are necessary. A
Along with all of these
broader features of the Congress the basic prob-
lems of the recreation movement program will

be discussed. Meetings will be arranged on the
following topics:

TOpics to Be Discussed

I. Basic Problems Facing Recreation

Design of recreation areas and facilities.

Discussion of study of volunteers in public
recreation.

Program planning on the individual playground.

Practical methods of interpreting recreation.

Boys’ and girls’ clubs in the public recreation
program.

Should recreation programs be organized and
conducted by police departments?

Pet ideas.

Training recreation leadership.

Special recreation problems of towns and small
cities.

Use of schools for public recreation.

Out—of-town parks and forests.

Fundamental financial problems affecting
recreation.

Practical methods for improving recreation
personnel.

Methods of correlating recreation work of pub-
lic and private agencies.

Evaluation of a city’s recreation service.

II. Recreation Service for Special Groups

Recreation for girls and women in different age
groups.*

Recreation in cooperatives.

Rural recreation problems.*

Recreation in industry and labor groups.*

Special meetings for lay members of local
boards and committees.*

Recreation in churches.

Recreation in new housing developments.

Student recreation in colleges.

 

*Series of meetings.

255

256 ARE YOU COMING TO THE CONGRESS?

t'

Ill. Topics Dealing with Program Content

Scattered through the week there will be meet-
ings dealing with special phases of the rec-
reation program including:

Music Nature Model aircraft
Drama Gardening ' Athletics
Arts and Crafts Folk dancing

Winter sports
' Social recreation
Each person planning to come to the Congress

will receive a question pamphlet giving detailed
questions under each topic. The final programs
giving time, place, and personnel for all meetings
and arrangements will be available at the Regis-
tration Desk at the Statler Hotel when the Con-
gress sessions open.

Additional Features

The Civil Service Assembly of the United States
and Canada will hold its
meetings in Cleveland the
week of the Recreation Con-
gress. Recreation authorities
and Civil Service authori-
ties have much in common
and this will be an excellent
opportunity for the two
groups to become better ac-
quainted. Meetings are be-
ing arranged of interest to
delegates from both groups.

The American Institute
of Park Executives
and associated agen-
cies will hold their
meetings in Cleve-
land just prior to
the Recreation Con-
gress. Those inter-
ested in the two
meetings may at-
tend both this year
at little extra ex-
pense. Special tours
and events are be—
ing arranged for
Saturday and Sun-
day, September
28th and 29th, for
those delegates who
are to be in Cleve—
land between the
meetings.

a:

tumult. - . ‘
Among the spe- -- -._. --

cial features being

All the convention facilities of the Statler
Hotel will be set aside for the Recreation
Congress. The headquarters will be there.
Information. registration. consultation ser-
vice. the general sessions. most of the dis-
cussion groups. social events and other fea-
tures will be at the Statler. Those wishing
to be at the center of the Recreation Con-
gress activities should make their reserva-
tions early and directly with the hotel.
Further information about hotels and room-
ing houses may be secured from The Cleve—
land Convention and 'Visitors' Bureau. Inc.

 

planned is a nature tour of trailside museums led
by Dr. Arthur B. Williams, Metropolitan Park
Naturalist. The Metropolitan Park District of
Cleveland has some unusually interesting features
which delegates will not want to miss.

For those interested in gardening, Mr. Paul R.
Young, School Garden Supervisor of the Board
of Education, has arranged a tour of the Harvey
Rice Garden. Cleveland’s school gardens are out-
standing. Information regarding them will be
found in the booklet “Gardening—School, Com-
munity, Home,” issued by the National Recrea- ‘
tion Association.

In addition to discussion meetings at the Cleve-
land Congress, periods have been set aside for
practice and learning of skills in folk dancing,
social recreation and group singing. These classes
are always among the most
popular and enjoyable fea-
tures of the Congress pro—
gram.

A living arts and crafts
exhibit put on by various
agencies in Cleveland will
feature the use of different
methods and materials used
in creative work in recrea-
tion agencies. With hand-
craft and allied arts grow-
ing steadily in interest on
playgrounds and in
recreation centers,
this demonstration
will attract many.

Manufacturers of
supplies and equip-
ment used in the
recreation program
will be present in
large numbers, with
attractive displays,
affording delegates
an excellent oppor-
tunity to obtain in-
formation and ideas
for their local pro—
grams.

For further in-
formation write the
Recreation Con-
gress Committee at

315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City.

l

t

 

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

ATURE-GRAMS on a

postcard. This month
RECREATION launches Cap'n
Bill’s Column under the title
It’s Being Done in Nature
Recreation. He would like to
make it like the “patent
medicine ads” in that the
items have been tried and
found successful. At least

they should have been found to be big medicine
in your recreation program. Send your “Nature-
gram” on a post card to Cap’n Bill, Massachusetts
State College at Amherst. If every one cooper-
ates, the Society of Recreation Workers of
America will attain its year’s goal!

Giving fast cars all of the road! Folks of all
i ages, taking the longer way home, are discovering
that trails and lesser roads are mighty interesting.
From “jay—walking” to walking for Jays and other

nature adventures is a worth-
while lesson in habit-forming.

Nineteen out of twenty
forest fires are man—caused.
What was the expense of
these fires in your county last
year? Could you afford to in-
vest one-tenth of 1% in edu—
cating the public?

M ealworms are now be-
ing raised as a staple diet
for frogs, snakes, fish and
birds. Wildlife Leaflet, BS-
155, U. S. Biological Survey.

Those who scorn “worms
for fishing” are including
the new book H ow to Tie
Flies from the Barnes Dol—
lar Sport Library. .

New bird sanctuaries are
to be built at Monson,
Massachusetts, and at the
Mt. Hermon School, North-
field. Wildlife Leaflet, BS-
I 56, U. S. Biological Survey,
Ornamental Woody Plants
Attractive to Birds. The
Massachusetts Audubon

l

-uuwvvwwvuvr'v

"-V‘H"‘Ii-v1

I‘-

'W*‘ w 'm'" W‘Tf ‘1

FW-

Dr. William Gould Vinal of Massachusetts
State College' (Cap'n Bill to you)' has
agreed to send us for publication in a
special column of Recreation items of
interest on nature recreationl notices of
new books on nature lore' and happenings
here and there. We know our readers
will welcome Cap'n Bill's contributions
to the magazine' anclI as he suggests
here. he will welcome notes from them.

living animals.

of exhibits.

To bring about greater public cooper-
ation in forest tire prevention. the
American Forestry Association at 9|9
l7th StreetI N.W.l WashingtonI D. C..
has issued a million new poster stamps
in three colors depicting the destruc-
tion of property by forest fires. The
stamps may be secured from the Associa-
tion at $|.00 per sheet of ICU stamps.

Bulletin for May, 1940, also
has a timely article.
Supplementary science
readers are outflanking fact-
stuffing books. The Story of
Bees and the Book of Stones
are two of the thirty-book
Children’s Science Series of
the Pennsylvania Federal
Writers’ Project. Albert

Whitman and Company, Chicago. $.50 each.
Living Specimens in the School Laboratory con-
tains directions for the care and maintenance of

$1.00 postpaid from General

V V"? v *1 1 U 1' w avt‘v-r 'lvwncu-‘n-

 

‘
q
A a . n a g . . . g n n a g g halihgdhAAI-L‘J

Biological Supply House, 761 69th Place, Chicago.
Biological morgues are no longer the only brand

Dartmonth College has a full—time Naturalist,
Richard \Veaver, who confines his endeavors to
an extracurricular natural history program. That

an academic college is offer-
ing natural history as a satis—
fying hobby is revolutionary.
More power for “seeing
green” with Dartmouth!

The 500-mile Blue Ridge
Parkte'ay‘protects its natural'

beauty and bold panoramas

by a park-owned right—of—
way averaging 1,000 feet in
width, free from billboards
and other roadside litter.

Buckley Memorial Forest
is the title of a special Bul-
letin edited by Dr. R. A.
Johnson, State Normal

School, Oneonta, N. Y. The
ideals for which the forest
stands are promulgated by
essay contests among the
students.

An observation bee hive,
designed by Morton H.
Cassidy, Hyde Park High
School, Boston, has been
widely used by camps and
schools.

257

'-258 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

George Butler, the author of “Playgrounds”
and other books on recreation, once asked me to
recommend an insect book for his son. At that
time The Boys’ Boole of Insects, Edwin Way
Teale, had not then been published by E.  Dut-
ton and Company ($2.00). It is well illustrated,
arouses enthusiasm, and is practical.

The Log Cabin lllyth, born during the “log
cabin campaign” (1840) of President Harrison,
is a study by Harold R. Shurtleff. Harvard Uni-
versity Press, $2.50. There were no log cabins in
America until the end of the 17th century. Speak
truthfully when inaugurating a “back to nature”
campaign in your community.

T'zventy- “('8 years of service will be celebrated
in October by the Boston Children’s Museum.

N ew nature leaders’ schools are being born. 0.
E. Fink, Conservation Curriculum Supervisor,
State Department of Education, Columbus, Ohio,
is responsible for the new leaders’ camp to be held
in a state forest.

Conservation and School-Community Relation-
ships is the title of a unique experiment to be
conducted cooperatively by the University of
Tennessee, the State Department of Conservation,
and the Norris School.

The Training Course for Nature Leaders at
the Swift Creek Recreational Demonstration
Area, near Richmond, Virginia, under the direc-
tion of Reynold E. Carlson, Nature Specialist of
the National Recreation Association, flat-footedly
says that the courses will make a non-technical
approach to the various nature fields.

The National Camp for Professional Leader-
ship in Camping puts the matter on a graduate
level. Life Camps, in cooperation with the New
York City Schools and New York University
School of Education is starting a progressive
three-year experiment in the Kittatinny Moun-
tains of New Jersey. Knowing Doctor Sharp, I
realize that it means 90% mixture of pioneering
set off by the spark of nature interest.

At the lVorld’s Fair Henry Platt, Director of
the Department of Science, Elizabeth Peabody
House, 357 Charles Street, Boston, in cooperation
with the American Institute of the City of New
York will once again have over fifty boys and
girls, members of his science clubs, engaged in
laboratory experiments. These outstanding demon-
strations will be in the exhibit building of the
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Com-
pany.

Cooking, Carrying, Camping on the Appalachian

Trail, a manual for beginners by S. W. Edwards.
Press of William Jarboe, Washington. 25¢, and
worth lots more!

Nature sketches by short wave from Rocky
Mountain National Park, N.B.C., Tuesdays, at
I :30 P.M., Eastern daylight saving time. Raymond
Gregg, Park Naturalist, will conduct unrehearsed
discussions with children visiting the park on con-
servation and wildlife.

IV as this you? Playground Leader to small boy:
“There is a new nature game out.” Small boy:
“What would I have to eat to get it ?”

The Melting pot on a playground is less liable
to boil over if it’s nature. Why not have a na—
tionality garden with the shamrock, the lily, the
rose and the heather. They are all grown under
the same natural laws. In Cleveland there are
cultural gardens sponsored by nationality groups.
There is a Shakespeare Garden, a Hebrew Gar-
den, a Germanic Garden, an Italian Garden, and
so on.

Massachusetts has 119 town forests, according
to Harris Reynolds, the “Father of Town For-
ests.” Of the dozen new ones Northampton leads
the list with 2250 acres. The Hartwell Memorial
Forest in Bedford is an example of a popular
movement. Town forests bring recreation home
to the folks. Recreation is taking its place along-
side of feathers, fins, fur, and forest fruits as
legitimate forest products.

“ll/Iiiiute men” for the Dutch Elm disease. How
much is an elmed-city worth in terms of dollars or
in terms of beauty? If elms mean anything to your
community, the time has arrived.for vigilance.
\Vilting of the foliage is a sign of trouble. For
real diagnosis consult your nearest State College.
The Federal Government has ear-marked $400,000
for Dutch Elm eradication work.

“Trail Riders of the Wilderness” is the title of
1940 trips under competent leadership announced
by the American Forestry Association, Washing-
ton. Here’s an idea for local recreation workers.

Diorama is a Greek word which means “looking
through to see something.” Progressive museums
are installing dioramas of life groups and land-
scapes. Three questions: Where is the nearest
museum? Where is the nearest diorama? Have
you tried diorama displays in down-town windows
or in the playground “shelter”?

A word to the wise. “Animal wages” at Holly-
wood depends on intelligence and scarcity. If you
have a “nature trick” that took brain work and is

scarce, send a nature-gram.
(Continued on page 272)

"-—-'——-'

Camping in Oregon-

A Hobby tor the Middle-Aged

ANY PEOPLE seem to feel that camping is only
for the young and vigorous and that those
who did not “begin young” cannot or should

not take it up in later years. Perhaps the experi-
ences of a few of us—all women and all frankly
middle-aged ——-would help dispel that hypnotic
iIIUSion.

Our enthusiasm for camping is a recent acqui-
sition, due to the fact that our young days were
all spent in the cities of the East. But once ex-
posed to its lure in the beautiful Oregon setting
we became mild fanatics, for, as with the measles,
the older you are the harder you take it!

Comfort Is Permissible !

As we get older perhaps we demand a little
more comfort in this matter of roughing it. But
at the same time we need to watch ourselves to
see that we do not slip in a little
gadget here and a bit of luxury
there, until we are like the friend
of mine who said to her fellow
packer as they were starting out
——“Shall we check now to see
if we have everything in the
car?” and the reply was
“T’would be easier to check
what we have left in the
hotlse.”

Can you sleep on the
ground with nothing beneath
you but that romantic-sound-
ing one blanket? Frankly, I
can’t—that is, and sleep! So
imagine my delight to be in—
troduced to the air mattress.
They weigh only four pounds
and take up almost no space
when deflated. A pump is
not necessary; twenty-four
blows from nature’s pump
that is always with you will
do it, and it is a most excel-
lent deep breathing exercise!

No more digging holes for

If you go camping when you're
middle-agedI such hair-raising
"stunts" as this will not ap-
peal to you. but you'll tind
many fascinating things to do.

 

Courtesy Colorado Mountain Club

By FLORENCE D. ALDEN

Director of Physical Education for Women
University of Oregon

hip and shoulder; no more hunting for a so-called
soft spot; just throw the mattress down any-
where—~it fits itself equally graciously to the con-
tours of the earth and to the contours of your
body anatomy. CUrled Up in your sleeping bag
on top of your mattress you are as comfortable
as on your Beauty Rest at home.

Forest Camps

Perhaps the easiest form of camping is that
offered in the Forest Camps. There are many
very alluring ones on the Willamette River, the
McKenzie, the Santiam, the Me-
tOliUS, the John Day, the Wal-
lowa, and others. The forestry
people have done a most expert
job of building the camps to fit

into the surroundings. In
some, a place has simply been
smoothed for your tent, but
in many they have built most
compact little shelter huts
made of rough logs with a
slightly raised platform for
sleeping bags, a shelf for
eating and a bench or two—
all the comforts of home!
One end is open, and just
outside is an artistic rock fire-
place—half of it made for an
open fire“ and so arranged
that the heat will be thrown
into the hut on cold nights,
and the other half made like
a stove and placed near
enough for dashing out be—
tween rain drops to flop the
pancakes and turn the bacon.
And how good the bacon does

259

260 CAMPING IN OREGON——A HOBBY FOR THE MIDDLE-AGED

smell sizzling away out there! You may fuss at
the coffee at home and mutter if the toast is burned
-—but out under the trees and the sky, to the tune
of the rustling river, those very things, seasoned
with a little smoke and a pine needle or two, are
heavenly good!

In most of these camps the forestry men bring
firewood all cut and dispose of the garbage. Too
much cannot be said for the courtesy of these
forest rangers. They not only do their assigned
duties most efficiently but they are enthusiastically
interested in helping you to have just the kind of
a good time that you yourself want no matter
how wildly foolish it may seem to them. For
women wandering and camping alone this feeling
that Uncle Sam and all his gracious servants are
keeping a friendly eye out for you gives you a
delightfully comfortable sense of being cared for.

The thing to be feared in camping in the East
is at times the rough human element. When we
came out here our fear of man was transferred to
a fear of wild beasts. Everything in the West is
bigger than in the East-—even the stories! So we
heard of coyotes, cougars, bears, and other ani-
mals. In all our years of camping, many times in
high, far spots, we have never seen anything
wilder than a bear—and he was more scared of
us than we were of him. Our nearest contact with
the bear species was rather close in on Blue River.
We were cooking a most delicious smelling beef-
steak over our camp fire and looked up to see a
half grown cinnamon bear squatting on his hind
quarters, paws crossed on his stomach, snifling in
the steak odors through ecstatic quivering nostrils.
We were so interested that we forgot to be
alarmed, but the instant we moved he lumbered
regretfully away and splashed across the river.

Once when we were camping far away from
civilization on the John Day. River, a forest ranger
came into our camp and after asking us if we
had any menfolks or any Firearms, he looked at
us with a wicked twinkle and said, “You women
certainly are brave, camping here alone with the
woods full of cougars.” That night we heard

things, but whether they were dream cougars or
real ones we shall never know.

“Far from the Maddening Crowd”

Perhaps, like us, you enjoy occasionally getting
way away into the wilds—“far from the madden-
ing crowd,” and camping “raw.” Most such spots
anywhere near the cities have been made into for-
est camps. So you will have to pile your duffel

into your car and just go a—hunting for a place
that suits you. Two summers ago we picked out
the Deschutes River as a hopeful hunting ground.
We wandered up and down in the land and to and
fro searching for a spot where no one had ever
dreamed of going. The day wore on, and at every
place we thought attractive there would be very
tangible evidence that someone had thought it at-
tractive before us! Then at long last we ran
across one of these good friends—a forest ranger.
Resourceful as always, he said “Why not leave
the road and go right through the forest till you
lind a spot?” The floor of the forest across the
mountains in Central Oregon is fairly Open and
free of underbrush. So with renewed enthusiasm
we turned our patient car into the woods, and
dodging towering pines and scratching sage brush
we made for the Deschutes. Guided by the direc-
tions of the friendly ranger we struck the river
at exactly the kind of place we had been picturing
in our minds. So we pitched our little umbrella
tent by the beautiful sweeping curve in the river
and beneath the shade of huge sweet smelling yel-
low pine. The deep running stream slipped quietly
by us all day long and time slipped away just as
quietly. The only way we had of marking the
days was that when two or three none-to-ambi-
tious fishermen strolled by we knew it was Sunday.

Sometimes you may get the urge to go even
farther into the the untouched areas. But then
you will have to part with your car and take to
the miles of forest trails. If you are a hiker and
don’t mind carrying a heavy pack it is all very
simple. But why not have a horse’s legs do the
pushing and a horse’s back to do the carrying?
If you have a man in your family who is a camp-
ing addict and who also knows horses, again it is
quite Simple. But be sure he knows horses, for to
get up in the cold dawn and scramble through
dewy underbrush after a strayed horse is not
romantic. And to have the pack with all your
food slip off and rattle down a precipice is little
short of tragic! But this need not happen for ex-
cellent packers, who are also men of very fine
caliber personally, may be engaged at many points
near our primitive areas.

A Horseback Trip

Last summer two of us, with a packer and one

pack horse, took a fivepday horseback trip along
the Skyline Trail in the high Cascades. ~ We
started from the Metolius River country and made

(Continued on page 272)

‘—

—_——-—‘~. M _A.“_

Outdoor Movies in Sioux City

OMMY—“Hi, Rich! Going
Tto the playground movies
tonight?” I ‘

Richard—“Sure tooting.
How about you P”

T ommy—“I’d like to but Dad’s out of the city
and Mom’s expecting company.”

Richard—“Whyldon’t you go along with us?
We’re leaving in about twenty minutes.”

Tommy—“Gee! That would be swell. What’s
the picture tonight?”

Richard—“I think it’s Joe E. Brown in ‘When’s
Your Birthday.’ I hope it’s as good as last week
. . . that Frank Buck picture ‘Bring ’Em Back
Alive.’ Didn’t you think it was keen?”

Tommy—“I’ll say it was. That’s one of the
swellest pictures we ever had.”

such conversations are common occurrences in
Sioux City throughout the summer months, for
movie night is something looked forward to with
eager anticipation by thousands of people, both
young and old.

On each of the twelve largest playground areas,
one night each week is.set aside as movie night
when the children, young people, parents and
neighbors come to the park for a regular movie
program. It is the same type of prOgram that one
would see at a cinema theater except that only
approved pictures are shown. This is an all—
sound program consisting of a regular feature
and other shorts to make an hour and a half
program.

The movie always starts with a cartoon com-
edy, and if the feature is not too long other
shorts are shown such as sports, education, music.
This is then followed with the feature itself.

Of course one cannot start this outdoor movie
until it gets dark. It has been found that in this
locality the starting time must be after 8 :30 P. M.,
but by the close of the summer program in
August it is possible to start as early as 8:15.
Thus with an hour and a half prOgram, the family
may usually start home around 10:00 P. M.

Seating the Audience

Most of the people sit directly on the grass or
bring blankets to place on the ground. The use
of camp stools, folding chairs or portable park

By CLARENCE C. BOHNER
Department of Public Recreation
Sioux City, Iowa

benches is discouraged. When
portable seats are brought they
must be placed to one side in
an area marked off for this
purpose. A few of the better attended areas are
situated on rolling ground, and by placing the
screen at the foot of the incline the audience may
sit in a semi-circle on the hillside, which forms a
natural amphitheater. It has been estimated that
more than five thousand people witness the movies
at some of these more favorable spots. However,
in the majority of the parks, twelve to fifteen
hundred people attended each evening’s entertain-
ment. In some of the parks nearly half of those
attending are adults, while in other areas the ma—
jority are children. A total of twenty thousand
people view the pictures each week at the twelve
park areas. It is true, however, that a few of
these are repeaters, for some of the younger gen-
eration make a practice of following the pictures
from one park to another in order to see the show
two or three times. It is often necessary for a
child to travel two or three miles in order to ac-
complish this.

The Equipment

The equipment used is relatively simple. The
screens are 8X 10 feet in size and are made of
rubberized material laced on a collapsible wooden
frame held in place by guy ropes and iron tent
stakes. The machines are standard 16mm sound
on film projectors. Those built for larger audi—
ences with a 1000 watt projector bulb and an
amplifier with at least 30 to 40 watt output are
satisfactory for such outdoor showings. This type
of projector can be purchased for approximately
$500.00 or may be rented for as little as $30.00
per month. Usually two large speakers are used,
one on either side of the screen. In the 16mm
size, a sixteen-hundred foot reel runs about forty-
tive minutes, so by planning the program to fit
two 1600 foot reels, there would be only one
change or break in the program. By the use of a
microphone plugged into the amplifier, advantage
of this brief pause is taken to make announce—
ments about playground activities, thereby reaching
a larger group than ordinarily would be reached.

(Continued on. page 265)
261

WORLD AT PLAY

IN MARCH, the Oak-
land, California, Rec-
reation Department
conducted a toy loan
drive during which Boy Scouts visited every home
in Oakland to collect broken and discarded toys,
games, and dolls. After reconditioning by mem-
bers of the Fire Department, these toys will be
loaned without cost to children through various
recreation centers.

A Toy Loan Drive
in Oakland

REALIZING that bi-
cycles represent a spe-
cial traffic problem, the
National Safety Coun-
cil recently organized a committee on bicycle
problems. A preliminary statement of the com-
mittee: “Bicycle registration must be recognized
as one of the most important phases involved in
the safety problem. The committee has laid the
foundation for an extensive study, to be started
immediately, pertaining to all phases of bicycle
safety. This includes, other than bicycle registra-
tion, the study of safety equipment essential to a
bicycle, the accident statistics which would be of
greatest help, the place where bicycles should be
ridden by the various age groups, educational fa—
cilities available to combat the danger .points of
the problem, and other important problems.”

Working for Safety
in Bicycling

ELIZABETH, New Jer-
sey, has a unique social
group whose members
are keeping up with
the times. Those who belong to the Old Guards
are all retired men, more than fifty years old—
men who have played active roles in business and
government and are unwilling to become recluses
through retirement. Unlike the usual old men’s
group, they meet weekly for stimulating discus-
sions and never yet have had time for a checker
game or a chess contest. Their time is taken up
with speakers, movies, music, and outings. There
are now 140 members—and a long waiting list of
prospective members. The Elizabeth club, formed

The “Old Guards”
of Elizabeth

262

in 1936, was the fourth such organization in New
Jersey. The first was founded in Kent in 1931,
the second in Morristown, the third in Westfield.
There are also clubs in Montclair and Rahway,
New Jersey; Oil City, Pennsylvania; and St.
Petersburg, Florida. There is no central organi-
zation, so that the small dues collected go entirely
to the local chapter. Only common interests and a
uniform objective—“to give the wives some re—
spite from the presence of retired husbands”'——
bind these different clubs together.

IN 1937 the Depart-
ment of Recreation of
Provo, Utah, with the
cooperation of the
school districts which donated a room and of the
WPA which furnished leadership, organized its
costume house. A drive for costumes by VVPA
workers resulted in securing over 2,000 costumes
donated by citizens. These costumes were fumi—
gated and renovated, and 600 new costumes were
made during the year. Any organizations desir-
ing new costumes were permitted to have them
made at the costume house if they would furnish
the material and turn the finished costumes over
to the house after they had been used. The mak-
ing of a hundred papier-méché masks and cos-
tumes proved a splendid activity last year. The
money for materials was furnished by the Senior
Chamber of Commerce of the city.

A Costume House
in Provo, Utah

THE RECREATION De-
partment of Pacific
Grove, California, has
initiated a program of
twice—a—month dances on Friday evenings from
10:00 to 12:00 for high school, and post high
school young people. The dance is held at the
municipal auditorium, and a charge of twenty
cents per person is made or thirty-five cents for a
couple. All who attend must have cards issued
by the special recreation dance committee made up
of adults and_young pe0ple.

A Plan for Young
People’s Dances

WORLD A T PLA Y 263

An Amateur Radio Station —-— Manchester,
New Hampshire, has a local amateur radio sta-
tion, the equipment for which was supplied by
local citizens. 'The Park Department remodeled
.an old stone tower to house the station which is
.-a.vailable to all. A local radio club has been
“formed, and the broadcasting facilities are so
izomplete that frequent conversations have been
carried on with stations as far away as Australia. ‘

Does it provide SAFE recreation for ALL of the children?

__ - The Burke-Built Enclosed Merry-Go-Round, shown above,
A. Drama conteSt The conlmunlty centers will accommodate 35 to 40 children at one time. in perfect

. ~ ' safety. Exceptionally sturdy construction. and o ular
pt the Board of Education of Cleveland, Ohio, with children of an ages_ _ P p

,ithis year conducted a city-Wide drama contest. As
‘1 special award the Play House of Cleveland in-
lvited the cast of the four prize winning plays to
lrepeat the plays during the week beginning April
'Ist. The members of the cast were received under
:he same conditions as the regular players of the
Play House. The four plays were: “And N ow—
J‘he Journey,” by Conrad Carter; “Red Velvet

'3’!

goat,” by Josephine Niggli; “Supposm , by San-
llor Vopos; and “Four Hundred Nights,” by Jack

13. Knapp. .
- The Burke-Built Climb-A-Round provides healthful exercnse

for children the year round. Exceptionally economical.
requires no maintenance expense. and will last a lifetime.

Write for complete catalog

1 Acquiring Parks Through Gift—Recently

 

:he New York Times reported that a public— The I. E. BURKE COMPANY
(spirited citizen had been ready to give a I 50-acre POND DU LAC WISCONSIN
estate as a public park to the city of Yonkers but
{:he City W35 rCPOI'tEd not to be in a POSitiOH to was at least sixty years old. One girl competed.
finance the satisfactory maintenance year after The downhill ski race is now thoroughly a part
year. There is no question that there are large of the winter sports program in the Essex County
lzracts of land with high valuation that could be Park Commission, and next year it will be held
nade available for park recreation through gifts, on a trail with sharper grades.
lf only a moderate campaign toward this objective
were conducted. A Boon for New York Photographers—The
ranks of amateur photographers have increased
1 Winter Sports in Essex County, New Jersey to such an extent that one New York City realty
——Last winter the Essex County Park Commis- firm is planning to equip each building under, its
.sion sponsored its first downhill ski race held in management with a dark room. The company will
:he South Mountain Reservation. There were two also offer tenants a free course in a school of
.éntries from the Plainheld Ski Club, live from photography. The dark rooms will contain stain-
. .Vlontclair, and one from Long Island. The course less steel sinks, mechanical ventilation, enlargers,
was half a mile in length with the trail dropping printing machines, developing tanks and trays,
fairly fast in some places, and with one 90° turn safe lights, timers, trimmers, and other photogra-
zvhere a member of the National Ski Patrol was phic apparatus.
)laced. As a result of his interest and cooperation
t is possible that local ski patrols will “be formed. A Museum Demonstrates Handcraft Activi-
The youngest of the twenty-seven contestants ties———In 1936 a group of fourteen men in Wes-
)oasted that he was nine years old, while others ton, Vermont, organized the Vermont Guild of
n the junior class were thirteen, fifteen, and sixu Old Time Crafts and Industries, with the pur-
een respectively. The oldest of the adults, who pose of maintaining Vermont interest in native
vas born in Telemark, a town in Norway from crafts. They built a “working museum” to demon-

vhich the famous telemark turn takes its name, strate how those crafts were carried on by pio-

I l

264 WORLD AT PLAY

   
  
  
    
 

New
DIAMOND

i

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever

made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance

droP forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-

ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 80.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MlNN. ‘

neers. Centered about a Sawmill and a blacksmith
shop, the building displays early methods of mak-
ing wooden, copper, pewter, and wrought-iron
articles; in the loom—room visitors see how wool
,and Bax are spun, carded, and woven into ma-
terial. The Vermont Guild has set up year-round
courses and short-term summer classes for in-
struction in American handcraft. These courses
are open to rural people who are interested in
making articles for their own use or for sale and
to craft teachers.

New National Park Established in Michigan
—-——Back in 1931 Congress first considered the es-
tablishment of Isle Royale National Park in Lake
Superior, Michigan. In April the state of Michi-
gan gave the Secretary of the Interior a deed to
the remaining amount of land which will meet the
requirements of the Federal law in regard to the
establishment of national parks. Isle Royale Na-
tional Park is an archipelago containing Isle Royal
and over forty other islands. The total acreage is

I 33,405 acres.

Rural Music Project Begins—For the past

Here’s the l W

 

fifteen years Cornell University has developed
special music programs for 4-H Clubs and the
annual Farm and Home Week. During this time.
rural communities have made increasing demands
for active guidance of local programs. In response
Cornell University this spring is initiating a three-
year program of music and dramatics made pos-
sible by a grant of $20,000 from the Rockefeller
Foundation, and service will be extended to cover
all of New York State. A previous grant pro-
vided for the writing and distribution of plays
based on the folklore of the state, and a continua—
tion of the rural dramatic movement has been
made possible in the present grant. The aims of
the project are to guide rural communities in de-
veloping their own resources and to make their
experiences available through written reports to
all rural communities of the country.

A Boys’ Symphony Orchestra—Before the
depression the Providence, Rhode Island, Boys’
Club has a symphony orchestra which ranked
with the best similar groups in New England.
Then, because of budget reductions, the orchestra
was forced to disband. This year the boys are
hunting up discarded musiCal instruments, for the
club is initiating a course in music appreciation
and is reviving orchestral and choral work in its
program.

Happenings in Akron, Ohio—The Depart-
ment of Recreation of Akron, Ohio, reports an
unusually successful camp season. Happy Days
Camp was operated on a new site and in a new
building in Virginia Kendall Park. The Metro-
politan Park Board furnished the facilities and
provided the camp director. Approximately three
thousand boys and girls were transported by
school busses from the playgrounds to the camp.
Sandy Beach Camp served about six hundred
boys and girls at alternate periods during the
summer. The theater trailer unit traveled to fif-
teen communities during the summer months pre—
senting pantomime, dance numbers, and amateur
skits for the playground children.

A Cycle Train—On Sunday, May 5th, the
Municipal Cycling Association of the Department
of Playground and Recreation of Los Angeles,
California, sponsored a cycle train which took

_cyclists and their bicycles to Santa Barbara where

a barbecue luncheon was served free to all mem-
bers of the group. The afternoon was spent riding
through the hills of Santa Barbara and Montecito.
An assembly car for entertainment was attached

WORLD AT PLAY 265

:0 the train. The round trip fare for the ride of
AVG and three-quarters hours was $2.50.

Helping to Plan Vacation ,Schedules—As a
lspecial aid to parents whose problem during the
«summer months was to plan for the happy occu-
nation by their children of the many hours of
ieisure which vacation brought, F. S. Mathewson,
Superintendent of Recreation of the Union
County, New Jersey, Park Commission, assisted
'n planning individual vacation schedules for the
Enjoyment of the park system’s many play
ifacilities.

' Detroit Essay-Winners Go to Camp—In the
-,:ity of Detroit this past summer, four participants
in the essay contest conducted by the Department
of Recreation won a free week at Camp Recrea-
tion, near Brighton. The subject of the seventy-
live word essay was “Why I Would Like to Go to
Camp Recreation.” Recreation Commissioner
‘Clarence E. Brewer, who presented the awards,

estimated that the number of children attending

Camp Recreation this season totaled more than
i2,000.

l

 

' Working Toward a Goal-——The East Bay
(Regional Park District of California has acquired
4,000 acres toward its ultimate goal of 10,000
4icres for park purposes.

l' Inexpensive Booklets on Recreation—The
jWashington Service Bureau, 1013 Thirteenth
(Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., publishes a
iseries of booklets at ten cents each covering
it wide range of subjects in the leisure-time

.ifield. A number of them deal with gardening

iiand flowers; others with games, social activ-

ities, and Sports; still others with such sub-

{jects as fortune telling, and personality and

tigharm. A complete list of publications may

Ijlbe secured on request from the Bureau.

 

5' Outdoor Movies in Sioux City
E ( C ontinucd from page 261)

j The equipment is set up before the show and
jtaken down after it in less than half an hour. It
can be easily transported on a small two-wheel
trailer or even carried on the side and in the back
seat of a regular passenger car.

The selection of iihns to be shown is one of the
most important parts of the whole program. Since

  

As Originally
DeveIOped by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball C0ach
University at Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoogglgy-game for boys and girls of
Y

all ages . . . May be play entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenselAgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKaIb Street In a a a. a

Authorized Sales Representative in: Your Locality

 

these films are for the enjoyment of the whole
family, pictures must be selected that will interest
small children as well as young people, their par-
ents and even grandparents. Since they are for
public showing, pictures must be chosen that will
not offend any particular group and will maintain
high standards.

Selecting Films

Before making a selection of pictures, consid-
erable preliminary work is done. All the feature
films listed by the leading rental libraries are
checked and their rating determined in order that
the very best material available can be used.
While a number of magazines give reviews and
ratings on films, it has been found that the type
of rating found in the Educational Screen and the
Parents’ Magazine is the best for most purposes,
since they give separate ratings for adults, and
children.

Most feature pictures are not released for non-
theatrical showing until several years after they
are shown in theaters, so it is necessary to have
back numbers of these magazines available. As

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

:- St. Louis. Mo.

266 OUTDOOR MOVIES IN SIOUX CITY

SAFE, COMFORTABLE SEATING

AtimuQateA necneatiojnaf inteneAt!

 

 

Universal Steel Bleachers provlde direct support for each row

of seat and foot boards . . . eliminate needless dead weight
and provide an exceptionally high safety factor. They are
easy to transport and may be erected in total or in part to
suit your immediate need. Write for informatlve details.

Universal bleachers now
serve hundreds of school
and civic recreation cen-
ters. Supplied in either
wood or steel, our design
provides maximum safety
and comfort, combined
with ease of erection.
The initial cost is mod-
crate and maintenance is .
low. Universal bleachers embody many unusual features
. . write today for descriptive bulletins.

 

We also make folding bleachers for permanent indoor use.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.

606 S. NEIL STREET CHAMPAIGN. ILLINOIS

 

 

‘

an aid in determining the release date, a late issue
of the Film Daily Year Book, which lists the re-
lease date for all feature pictures, is used. For the
summer program of outdoor movies, only pic-
tures which are recommended or at least given a
satisfactory rating for showing to children, youth
and adults by one or both of the above mentioned
magazines, are shown. Since the film ratings from
these magazines are not merely one person’s idea,
but often a composite opinion from a number of
different reviewing bodies, one is fairly safe in
accepting these recommendations. At least there
is something definite to back up the selections.
The Sioux City Department of Public Recrea-
tion had an interesting experience along this line.
One of the daily papers printed an editorial criti-
cizing one of the pictures and suggesting that
more care be used in the selection of Recreation
Department movies. Immediately the magazines
were taken to the editorial writer and the methods
used for selecting the films was explained. As a
result, he was convinced that. the best pictures
available were being used, and he promised to
write another editorial explaining the difficult

problem of pleasing all the people and commend-
ing the method of selecting films.

In the selection of films, care is taken to avoid
the cheap western picture which seems to be of-
fered in such abundance. The following are sam-
ples of some of the features that have been in—
cluded in the program the past four years: Little
Men, Peck’s Bad Boy, Keeper of the Bees, City
Limits, I’ll Tell the World, The Healer, Rainbow
on the River.

The film rental is not such a financial burden as
one would expect. Film programs that rent from
$8.00 to $10.00 per day can be rented for $20.00
or $25.00 per week, when used a week or two at
a time. Practically the only, other item of expense
is the salary of the operator which need not be
such a big item because of the simplicity of oper-
ating a 16mm sound—on-film machine in compari-
son with the regular 3 5mm machine.

Not only do movies provide wholesome enter-
tainment for entire families at no cost to them,
but by using the microphone an excellent medium
of publicity for the recreation program is made
available and other activities of the Recreation

   

I

    
 

A HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN DURHAM 267

Department are easily “sold” to the public.
Through this means, a large number of contacts

are made and many new people are informed of
the program.

In Defense of Nature Study
(Continued from page 254)

a garden not only gives a chance for selection of
plants best adopted for small amounts of soil, but
shows the necessity of careful root treatment. Try
arranging on an old platter a few stones, some
moss, an orange toad stool and pipsessewa in
flower.

“Any one who does not want to sail a boat, ride
a horse or swim at high tide today may go on a
nature walk.” I don’t blame them, I wouldn’t go
either. Until the camp authorities can realize that
it is not necessary to set apart nature observations
and interpretations as something scheduled; or
during a shower to don hat and boots and trek
through the woods after some queer duck, such a
phase of camp life will fail to have appeal.

A Housing Development in Durham
(Continued from page 228)

contest which is sponsored by the City RecreatiOn
Department—an activity which dates back to
1926. There are at least nine species of birds, in-
cluding the chick-a-dee, tufted titmouse, flicker,
red-headed woodpecker, white breasted nuthatch,
robin and English sparrow, who have become resi-
dents of these fine houses. In addition, Dr. John-
son, President of the Duke-Durham Bird Lover’s
Club, reports that sixty-two of the one hundred
and twenty-five species of birds of this locality
have been seen in the Sanctuary. The entire area
is free from squirrels, and hunting is discouraged
unless the weapons used are field glasses or
cameras! This form of “shooting” is done to a
great extent.

For the convenience of those who --wish to study .

closely certain outstanding characteristics of birds
and to prevent unnecessary noises and disturb-
ances while doing so, special mounded grass paths
have been built. These feathery carpet paths have
proved to be very satisfactory to all who have
used them. The erection of suitable fireplaces and
picnic grounds has encouraged people to take their
lunches and spend the entire day in the area.
These are only a feW‘of the fine developments in
the Sanctuary. There is now under construction
a nature museum 31’ x46’ which will house a

 

 

on the genuine world-famous

"JUNGLEGYM"

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

The "perfect. playground device"—as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Iunglegym"
Climbing Structure—is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production, made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item, has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling ‘why the "Iun-
glegym" Climbing Structure is the safest, most
economical, most educational, most all-around
desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. just at! the press!

11
THE 1. E. PORTER CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

 
 

OTTAWA *

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spaldinq"
lines of playground. swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

donated collection of two hundred bird nests along
with many other attractive features. Under con-
sideration at the present time is the building of'
observation stations and the additional planting
of trees, shrubs and flowers.

The daily attendance at the Sanctuary ranges
from fifty to two hundred people representing
varied interests of both young and adult. The
school children, especially those of the fifth and
sixth grades, find this area an ideal outdoor labo-
ratory for their science classes. Groups from the
city playgrounds make at least two scheduled trips
to the Sanctuary during the summer, and these are
under leadership so that points of interest may be
clearly explained. Four of the playgrounds are
within walking distance of this area, and trans-
portation is provided for all the other children
who are not so conveniently located. The Boy
Scouts have planned to plant a collection of wild
flowers in the park, while the Girl Scouts have
made special trips to service certain of the bird
feeding stations. The Duke-DUrham Bird Lover’s
Club, the Durham Hiking Club and other allied
organizations have also found extensive uses for
this area. Perhaps above everything else the

268 APPALACHIAN T-RAIL CONFERENCE ACTIVITIES

Sanctuary has afforded thousands of individuals
an opportunity to come closer to reality and in-
dulge in a recreation activity that is bound to
bring lasting appreciations and Isatisfactions
throughout life.

Nature Advising in Girl Scouting

(Continued from page 222)

the sky line. Personality education, even in large con-
gested cities, cannot be effective 'unless some means are
evolved to give expression and to develop that phase of
child nature. Official education over—emphasizes the in-
tellect at the cost of the emotional-aesthetic expansion.
An evolved personality has these multifarious phases
balanced; his emotional-aesthetic and intellectual-rational
responses are equally developed. Art, music, singing, the
dance, creative literature, poetry, dramatics, and arts and
crafts are balanced against discussion. research, and
science. But none of these can take the place of experi-
ence with nature, plants and animals.”

Cincinnati Discovers the Fountain

of Youth

(Continued from page 245)
and their correspondingly different tastes; second,

and by far most important, is the system of night
lighting which makes the facilities available to
thousands who have never before had the time or
opportunity to utilize them. Simultaneous partici-
pation in activities by entire families has been
made possible, and while children are occupied in
activities provided for them, parents are left free
to engage in their own play, or all may engage in
the same activity if they desire. The sports field
offers young men and women an ideal place to
engage in co-recreation.

The policy of the Recreation Commission in
operating the sports field has been strictly non-
profit. The food and soft drink concession also
is operated by the Commission. On the point of
fees and charges, the Recreation Commission has
been self-critical, but it is necessary that 'small
charges be made for the use of facilities because
the project must be self-supporting, since it is
impossible to spare any part of the Commission’s
regular operating budget for the Airport Sports
Field. It is regarded better to make these small
charges to cover operation expenses than not to
provide the facilities at all.

Cincinnati has no monopoly on the fountain of
youth. It has been secured by three administrative
devices available to municipal recreation depart-
ments, namely: inter-departmental transfer of
city owned land; WPA contributions; small fees
to cover current operating expenses.

Appalachian Trail Conference

Activities
(Continued from page 243)

Shelters
Shelters, at intervals of a modernate day’s jour; .
ney, are regarded as an essential part of the Trail;
system. With the completion of their sections of”:
the Trail, particularly in the less-developed regions},
trail clubs are giving consideration to the con-,
struction of shelters or affording other accommo€=
dations for users of the Trail. A definite program,:
was initiated in 1937, in cooperation with the Fed-,
era] and State Forest and Park Services, for the;
completion of a chain of lean-tos along the entire;
route of the Trail. Subsequently many shelters;
were built in national forests and parks. Guide-l).
book Trail data for the various sections list the,
shelters and available accommodations to meet the/l
needs of the noncamping hiker. In the Maine wile
derness it is possible to tramp I 73 miles for sev-;
enteen days and find, each night, satisfactory
public accommodations in the form of a sporting}.
camp. In the Maryland-Virginia territory, simi-‘1
lar eleven-day trips of I 70 miles are possible.

The Contributions Made by Clubs

The clubs comprising The Appalachian Trail
Conference have made extensive and valuable 50n-
tributions to the knowledge of the little-frequented
mountain regions and to collection of historic data
in many sections. Trail workers have also spread
the technique of light-weight camping equipment.
As media for dissemination of trail and outdoor
technique, The Appalachian Trail Conference has
been a material factor in the development of the
chain of new clubs throughout the length of the
Appalachian Mountains.

To fill a long-felt need, members of The Appa-
lachian Trail Conference published the first two
issues of Appalachian Trailway News in 1939.
This semi-annual publication of The Appalachian ,
Trail Conference is devoted to The Appalachian
Trail, the activities of interested individuals and
affiliated clubs, and news items of general interest.

In addition to the individual resultant pleasure
from execution and accomplishment of the objec-
tive, the motivation and justification for the clubs’
maintenance of The Appalachian Trail are the
extensive use of the Trail and shelter system by
hikers and campers. Hence of no little importance
to The Appalachian Trail Conference is the ac-
quainting of the public with The Appalachian

;

RECREATION NOTES AND NEWS 269

Trail through articles in magazines and newspa—
pers; publications; radio; lectures; movies, per-
‘ manent and temporary exhibits in museums,
sportsmen’s and outdoor life shows; and World’s
Fair and photographic exhibits.
In 1937 the Conference started a constructive
;program in connection with a proposed plan to
lpreserve and protect the Trail and its environs
ithrough the establishment of a zone or isolated
strip two miles in width in which no new parallel-
ing roads or other development inappropriate to a
.wilderness area are to occur. In 1938 “The Ap-
tpalachian Trailway Agreement” was executed be—
tween the National Park Service and the United
{States Forest Service for the promotion of The
n' Appalachian Trailway to extend one mile on each
" side of 'The Appalachian Trail in the eight Na-
; tional Forests and two National Parks, a distance
- of 705 miles out of the 2,050 miles of Trail. This
, program has been extended to include adherence
to the Agreement by all fourteen states, with one
’. exception—Maine. It is h0ped to eventually in-
clude the remainder of the Trail route. Thus there
is being provided an insulation of the route of the
‘ Trail as a sectiOn set apart and dedicated to the
interests of those who seek recreation on foot.

Nature Study in the National Parks
{Continued from page 252)

and other bits of camera usage not generally un-
derstood. The service was so popular that it will
be repeated during the 1940 season. The picture
caravans covered an approximate route of fifteen
miles, affording opportunities for wildlife shots
and scenery for moving picture and still camera
users alike.

Automobile caravans, accompanied by ranger
naturalists, are on regular schedule during the
'summer from Estes Park Village to the Con-
tinental Divide at Milner Pass. General nature
observations are made along the way. Special
ycaravans for the study of roadside geology form
a summer activity popular with scientific students
and visitors from all parts of the land.

I Naturalist services begin the first week of June,
1 reach their greatest activity in July and August,
I and are concluded the latter part of September.

Rocky Mountain National Park covers 405
1square miles of a choice section of the Rocky
Mountains, and is the most accessible of western
national parks to eastern and middlewestern points.
It is under the immediate administration of David
l H. Cantield, park superintendent.

Y

 

Recreation Notes and News

SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE has appointed George 0.
Draper as Coordinator of the Program for
Training in Recreational Leadership there. Mr.
Draper graduated from Springfield College and

has taken graduate work at Columbia and
Harvard.

Dr. John Brown, Jr., internationally known
Y.‘M.C.A. physical education leader, was guest of
honor at a recognition dinner held May 13th in
New York City upon his retirement as national
“Y” physical director. Among the speakers who
paid tribute to Dr. Brown’s forty—three years of
athletic leadership were Dr. John R. Mott, presi-
dent of the World’s Alliance, Y.M.C.A., Dr.  E.
Raycroft of the American Olympic Committee,
and Dr. E. M. Best, president of Springfield
College. '

Charles Stapleton, Acting Director, Community
House, Goldsboro, North Carolina, was selected
to lead the United States swimming team which
participated in the annual Pan American swim-
ming tournament held in Buenos Aires early in
1940. Six American nations were represented in
the meet which was sponsored by the Hindu Club
of Buenos Aires and the South American Swim-
ming Federation. It is suggested that anyone in-
terested in having further information communi-
cate with Mr. Stapleton.

A. J. Slogeris, former Superintendent of Rec-
reation in El Paso, Texas, now working on an
engineering project, maintains at his home an
open hobby center to which anyone may come at
almost any time to learn how to do things in which
he is interested, with the help of Mr. Slogeris or
some other volunteer equipped to teach the hobby.

Directors of year-round recreation have re-
cently been appointed for the first time in a num-
ber of cities.

Joseph A. Brislin has become Director of Rec-
reation in Barre, Vermont. Another Vermont city
to establish year-round recreation under the lead-
ership of a Recreation Commission is Brattleboro,
where Frederick Martin has become the recrea-
tion executive. Springheld, Vermont, has engaged
Ralph Hileman to serve as year-round recreation

executive.
In establishing its year-round recreation system,

270 SOME ADVENTURES IN VACATION READING

W atertown, New York, has appointed   Perry
as its recreation executive.

New Canaan, Connecticut, has also joined the
ranks of year-round cities, and E. Dayton Jones
has become the Director of Recreation.

Some Adventures in Vacation Reading
(Continued from page 226)

over 500 reports made to Mrs. Smith on the sec-
0nd contest, and 920 in the third.

In the summer of 1939, the vacation readers
formed the “Clock Club,” and the club motto was
“Pass the time away with a worthwhile book.”
Each child entering this contest was given a card-
board with a clock in the center on which a white
line had been drawn from each hour to the edge
of the cardboard. The name, “Clock Club,” was
printed in white ink at the top of the card, and at
the bottom was written the name, grade, and
school of the child. A different colored card was
used for each grade. A cord was tied to the cards
so that they could hang on the bulletin board in
decorative array. The object of the contest was to
read the clock around as many times as possible.
When a child read and reported on a book, a star
was put on the line running out from 12 o’clock,
and so on for each hour on the clock as more
books were read. The stars, however, had differ-
ent values, according to the type of book read.

The method of scoring according to age group
was as follows: a gold star counting 500 was
given for non-fiction books only, the required
number of pages varying with the age group.
Silver stars counting 300 were given to the sixth,
seventh and eighth grade pupils for books which
contained 200 or more pages; to the fourth and
fifth grades for books with 100 or more pages;
and to the first, second and third grades for books
of 50-100 pages. A red star counted 200 and was
given to sixth, seventh and eighth grades for
books of 100 pages; to fourth and fifth grades for
books of 50-100 pages; and to first, second and
third grades for books of 10-25 pages. A blue
star counting 100 was given to sixth, seventh and
eighth grades for books of 50-100 pages; to the
fourth and fifth grades for books of 25-50 pages,
and to the first, second and third grades for books
of 10-25 pages. At the close of the contest which

was held from June I to September I, first and‘

second prizes in the form of books were given to

the ones with the most points in each grade from
each school.

The last contest was especially successful, with
a total of 920 reports turned in. The interest in
non-fiction books was especially stimulated, since
the highest-counting gold stars were given for
reading them.

Enthusiasm for these contests was aroused by
the librarian who visited each school just before
vacation and told every class group about the con-ii
test, explaining what the motto was, when the
contest would start, and at the same time building
up a relationship with the pupils. This contact
with the school children contributed a great deal
to the popularity of the contest. j

The bulletin boards were always eye-catchingly
attractive, and numerous book displays made book
selections easy for the participants.

The children in Hillsboro have gone adventur-
ing into new worlds and different lands in the
summer time and also have laid a foundation for
a knowledge of library use, number system and -
literary appreciation which will enable them to go
farther in the future.

Training For Nature Recreation
Leadership

(Continued from page 246)
field of science can find some activities which they
can conduct with children’s groups and thereby
foster interest in natural history.

The third objective is to make known to stu-
dents the sources of help in their own community.
The local organizations, such as museums and
botanical gardens, are usually eager to help recre-
ation groups establish nature programs, and hob-
byists are often willing to provide volunteer
leadership. The students are also given an oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with bibliographical
sources to which they may turn for help in the
various fields of nature. _

Throughout these nature courses it has been the "
effort to develop in the leaders themselves an ’
enthusiasm for nature, thereby making it possible 
that their own satisfactions may be passed on to
those with whom they work.

Dramatics Come to Life
(Continued from page 232)
from every standpoint. The children and the
audience thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and our
leaders have a high regard for the place of dra-
matics in the playground program.

THE YOSEMITE SCHOOL OF FIELD NATURAL HISTORY 271

Cycling for Sociability
( C outinucd from page 223)

an overnight camping trip, and a final barbecue.

A. Memorable Camping Trip

The camping trip was one of the highlights of
the season. Early on a Saturday morning nearly
twenty club members met and set out for Camp
Rutledge, a state park about f orty—five miles south-
west of Athens. As it was the first real cross-
country trip for all except the writer, stops were
made rather frequently, and the ride assumed the
proportions more of a leisurely jaunt which, in
the phi1050phy of the club, is the true purpose of
biking. The afternoon and evening were spent
chiefly in exploring the camp area, and an efficient
kitchen staff prepared a big supper for all the
riders. On Sunday morning swimming and fish-
ing were the order of the day. The ride back
Sunday afternoon climaxed a splendid outing. It
was a real experience for all who participated and
attracted much favorable attention all over town.
Since all the bikers were adults there was no
safety problem, and it was a very fine demonstrav
tion of the possibilities of biking for adults.

A Barbecue as the Grand Finale!

As a climax to the biking season the club
planned a barbecue at a camp ten miles from town.
Sixty-five bikers assembled late that afternoon
and pedaled out to enjoy the occasion. The guest
of honor was a member of the University faculty,
Professor D. L. Ernest, who, at the age of 77,
is still an inveterate biker and has been riding for
more than fifty years. After the barbecue the
president of the club presented Professor Ernest
with a parchment certificate naming him honorary
life president of the city cycling club because of
his consistent interest and enthusiasm for the
things the club was organized to promote.

To the club as a whole Professor'Ernest’s ex-
perience is a reminder that they, too, will probably
enjoy bike riding through most of their lives and
Athens is enthusiastic over biking as an activity
that has a great appeal for adults as well as young-
sters. The warm fellowship which has resulted

: from the many fine experiences of the cycling club

has meant much to the whole membership, and aS
spring once more approaches plans are being made
to make 1940 an even more significant year of
biking experiences than was 1939.

The'Yosemite School of Field
Natural History

SINCE I 925 the Yosemite School of Field Nat-
ural History has been engaged in the task of
training park naturalists and other nature leaders.
The school was organized by Dr. Harold C.
Bryant, now Park Superintendent of the new
Kings Canyon National Park. Each summer
about twenty college graduates have been selected
from among applicants from all over the United
States. These students are chosen on the basis of
scientific training, experience, character and the
promise they show of making profitable use of
the training provided either as park naturalists or
in some other phase of natural history leadership.

The Yosemite National Park provides an ideal
location. Not only does the park provide scenic
marvels but it also contains an extensive flora and
fauna. The variation in elevation from approxi-
mately two thousand to over thirteen thousand
feet makes it possible to find in one area five dif-
ferent life zones embracing plants and animals
typical of conditions from the Mexican Border
to the tundras of northern Canada. Geologically,
it represents a notable example of stream-worn
canyons widened by glaciers, and the story of
granite is revealed in its rounded domes and
batholiths.

The training consists of seven weeks of prac-
tical field experience in interpreting nature. Na-
ture guiding is taught, demonstrated, and prac-
ticed through participating in the naturalist pro-
gram of the park. Students record observations,
collect specimens, write nature notes, and com-
pile complete scientific reports concerning a week
of carefully planned ecological study on a research
reserve area. An opportunity is provided to study
the flora, fauna and geology above timberline on a
two weeks pack trip into the High Sierras.

Mr. Bert Harwell, Park Naturalist of Y0-
semite, acts as director of the school and Mr.
Joseph Dixon, Field Naturalist of the National
Park Service, serves as assistant. Members of the
Yosemite naturalist staff assist in the instruction
and several specialists from the University of

'California and other universities also serve on the

instruction staff.

The eight weeks program is an extremely
varied one providing for field instruction in the
various fields of science, excursions to the nearby

gold mining country, visits to the groves of Big

272 WHY NOT TRY?

Trees, and evening camphres with outstanding
scientists and National Park Service leaders as
speakers. The high point of the summer is the
two weeks High Country Pack trip. This is a
never-to—be-forgotten eXperience among the peaks
of the wilderness sections of the Park. This pro-
vides opportunities to study alpines, climb moun-
tains and enjoy some of the finest scenery in
America in the company with other like-minded
people and under the leadership of men who are
able to interpret the world of nature. Lloyd
Parratt, Graduate of the Class of I939.

Camping in Oregon-rA Hobby for
the Middle-Aged

(Continued from page 260)

a loop starting on the Skyline Trail at the point
where it crosses the Santiam Highway, going by
Santiam. Lake, Jorin Lake, Bingham Basin,
Marion Lake to Jefferson Park, and back again
to the Metolius by Hunts Cove and Cabot Lake.
It was one of the most thrillingly free experiences
we have ever had—not hard and fairly inexpen-
sive. All day long we threaded our way along the
trails always in sight of the snow mountains, Sis—
ters, Three Finger Jack, Washington, Jefferson.
Every night we camped by some lovely mountain
lake and slept beneath the trees and the stars. The
guide did most of the heavy work and cared for
the horses. To watch him pack the pack-horse in
the morning and throw a diamond hitch over it all
was like watching an artist create a picture.

Our afternoon and night at Jefferson Peak is
beyond description. Our camp was by a rock-
shored lake in a circle of hr trees whose needles,
falling for who-knows-how-many hundreds of
years, made a soft fragrant carpet. Framed be-
tween two trees rose Jefferson Mountain towering

white and still against the deep blue sky. At night ,

the clear white stars made deep contrasts of light
and shade upon the sides of the mountain. And
that mountain air and the clear warm sunshine at
noon and the brittle cold at night!

For very luxurious horseback camping there are
organized trips for this country, covering the
trails from Mount Hood to Crater Lake—0r any
part of them. These people furnish all equipment
—food, sleeping bags, horses and do everything
for you. So that if you can sit a horse you can
enjoy the trip. And literally sitting a horse is all
the riding skill needed as the pace is set by the
pack-horses and never exceeds a walk.

Why Not Try?

To ENCOURAGE professional recreation workers
to write not so much on the philosophy of the
movement as on the techniques of doing the work;
the Society of Recreation Workers of America 
sponsoring the Joseph Lee Memorial Prize for
Recreation Literature for the three best articles
presented by members in good standing in the
Society. 5'

The first prize will consist of $50 and a suitable
plaque; the second of $35; the third of $15;
Awards will be made at the Society’s annual meet;
ing to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, during the Na:
tional Recreation Congress, September 30-Octh
her 4, 1940. Final selections will be made by a
competent board of three judges after preliminary;
judging by the Committee on Publications. 5’

Papers, which should be of not more than 2, 50q
words in length and typewritten on one side of
the paper only, should be submitted before
August Ist to Wayne C. Sommer, Chairman,
Committee on Publications, 2121 East Dauphin
Street, Philadelphia. Each manuscript must bear

'the name, address, position, and organization of

the writer in the upper left-hand corner of the
first page.

Literature about these trips may be obtained at
the local Chamber of Commerce offices and at the
forestry offices. The forestry ofhces also have
descriptive folders of all the types of camps and
camp sites to be found in the forests, giving dis-
tances, methods of getting there, facilities and trips
from the different points. These furnish excellent
reading around the home lire on a rainy winter
night. Half the fun of the trip is the planning of it!

It’s Being Done in Nature Recreation
( Continued from page 258)

Shelbomne Falls, Massachusetts, had a contest
on what can be done to improve the community. It
cost $25.00 for $1,000 worth of suggestions. If
every recreation worker will send a 25¢ nature
idea we will have $1,000 worth of ideas. ~

Robinson, champion of the W estfield River;
Parkway, takes pruning shears and makes path;
ways into pastures so that tourists can hike to see
mountain laurel in all its glory. Some farmers co-
operate by putting in turnstyles. Set your pruning;
shears and turnstiles to work for the year's cause.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 273

"He Will Be There"

1 E WILL BE THERE. Only disaster or serious
i H illness could keep him away. He will be
"there, as he has always been there, a familiar
v‘figure, song book held out in front of his slight
Elfigure, eye-glasses a quarter the way down his
enose, his white walrus mustache concealing his
:lips, his hands shaking a little as he holds his song
book, but his voice lifted by a strong inner spirit
in triumph above an aging body. Homer Hatch
is the symbol of the Singers’ Club and the Sing-
.ers’ Club is the symbol of Homer Hatch. The
Ptwo have been inseparable companions for almost
' half a century, going back into the early nineties
' when Homer Hatch helped to found the singing
organization with which he has sung for longer
than I have lived. He will be there tonight, as
’always, when the Singers’ Club gathers on the
, stage at Severance Hall with the famed Australian
baritone, John Brownlee, as its soloist, and physi-
cal age and the problems of life and business will
drop away from Homer Hatch, and in place of
' them will come the spiritual bread and butter and
wine .of song which have made his life so rich and
full. Homer Hatch is eighty~one years as the
" physical age of man is reckoned but he has not
' yet cast his first vote by the spiritual calculation
of the song of man. Auditor of W. M. Pattison
Supply Co. by day, where he has not missed a
day of work in more than thirty years, Homer
-Hatch is a song bird by night. When you take
your seat at Severance Hall tonight to hear the
Singers’ Club, look at Homer Hatch, and look at
him again and again, and as this eighty-one year
‘ old man lifts his voice to sing you will be looking
upon a man who has had a song in his heart his
iwhole life through for the world, for himself, for
his family, for his friends, and you will find it
' good to look upon Homer Hatch—From a news-
I paper in an Ohio city.

A Program of Education Through

-. Recreation
(Continued from page 248)
i really important collections of the plants, miner—

. als, fossils, insects, reptiles, birds, mammals and
Indian relics of North America. Some of these
collections, among them Dr. Mengel’s unrivalled

.r collection of 120,000 butterflies representing the

Lepidoptera 0f the world, are of international
fame.

    

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of Z

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES

The American Citizen, March 1940 (formerly Character
and Citizenship)

“A New Year’s Eve Party for Christian Youth” by
Theodore H. Kuch

Beach and Pool, March 1940
“Specifications and Recommendations for Underwa—
ter and Overhead Lighting of Swimming Pools.”
“Duties and Responsibilities of the Aquatic Director”

by William Clemenger

Beach and Pool, April 1940
“The Importance of Competent Personnel” 'by H.
W. Craig

"The Promotion of a Swimming Pool” by C. M.
R005

The Camping Magazine, March 1940

“Give Camping Back to the Camper” by L. B. Sharp

“The Counselor Packs Her Duffel with Intangibles”
by Katherine Kellet

“Girls on the Firing Line” by Betty Clark

“Insect Life in the Nature Program” by George N.
Rysgaard

“The Chinese Had a Name for It!” Description of
Top Sticks—a new game.

The Camping Magazine, April 1940

“Pottery Making as a Camp Activity” by Alice
Paulaukas and L. R. Whittington

“Streamlining the Treasure Hunt for Large Camps”
by C. Frederick Messinger

“Badminton Steps Out of Doors” by Carl H. Jack-
son and Lester A. Swan

“What the Average Camp Spends” by Ross L. Allen

“Camp Olympics” by Chris G. Chachis ‘

The Camping Magazine, May 1940
“Packing Food for Trips” by Barbara Ellen Joy
“Platter Boats” by Mrs. B. A. Sinn
“Pack—Trip Technique” by Hugh A. Hunter
“A Homemade Pottery Kiln” by L. R. Whittiugton

Camping World, March 1940
“Economics in Camping” by Robert C. Marshall
“Water Systems for Camp” by Frank A. Kristal
“Singing Better” by Leona Holbrook
“Notes on Waterfront Floats” by Zenon Raabe

The Instructor, April 1940
“Making Garden Equipment” by J. Edward Bond

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1940
“Student Recreation on Our College Campuses” by

C. D. Giauque I
“Dance for Men in the Schools” by Jose Limon

“Softball as I See It” by Vincent Farrell

Journal of Health and Physical Education, April 1940
“Dance and the Theater Arts in the Colleges” by
Charlotte MacEwan
“Afterschool Hours Prepare for Afterschool Years”
by Gertrude M. Dayton _
“Problems in Safety Education” by Ben W. Miller

“Girls and Lariats” by Josephine Betz _
“Bowling as Part of the Curriculum” by A. E. Florio

Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1940
“Health and Safety in Organized Camps” 'by Bar-

bara Ellen Joy _ . _
“Coeducational Social Dance in the Universny Phy-

sical Education Curriculum” by Delta T. Hinkel
“Prevention of Injury in Softball” by Charlotte

LaTourette

274

The Nation’s Schools, April 1940
“Resurfacing the Playground” by C. L. Crawford

Parks and Recreation, March 1940
“Parks and Playfields: Is 3 Separate or a, Joint Ad-
ministration Desirable?” by H. E. Varga

Safety Education, March 1940
“A Safe Place to Play”

Safety Education, April 1940
“The Triangle of Bicycle Safety” by Harry Barnicle

Safety Education, May 1940
“Fun Without Risk”
“Weed Out the Hazards.” Article on school inspec-

tion which might well apply to recreation buildings

and community centers

Scholastic Coach, March 1940
“Schoolboy Catcher in the Making” -by James L.
Quigley
“Aquatic Program for the School Year” by John Y.
Squires
“Baseball Quiz” by Jack Coombs
“Girls’ Volleyball Officiating” by Norma M. Leavitt

Scholastic Coach, April 1940
"First Practice—The Ground Strokes” 'by J. Donald
Budge
“Outguessing the Man with the Bat” by Charles A.

Jamieson _
“Competitive Volleyball Plan” by Frank Coluch

School Activities, April 1940
“Decorating Your Building for Social Functions” by

F. J. Coyte and E. E. Ohlson

Service Bulletin, National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation, March 1940

“Fundamentals of Track and Field for Girls and
W'omen” by Viola Mitchell

Survey Graphic, March 1940
“A Gang Goes Uphill” by Webb \Valdron

PAMPHLETS
A Brief Selected List of Books Including New Publica-

tions for Recreation Leaders
Chicago Recreation Library Committee of Council of
Social Agencies with cooperation of Work Proj-
ects Administration

Catalog of the Red Cross Radio Script Exchange. Third

edition _
Public Information Service, The American National
Red Cross, Washington, D. C., March 1940

(revised)

Community Forests by Nelson C. Brown
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.10

Dance Calls. Nebraska Folklore, pamphlet 27, series 3
Nebraska Writers’ Project, Lincoln, Neb., 1940

Educational Radio Script Exchange. Fourth edition cata-
logue
Federal Radio Education Committee, U. S. Office of
Education, Washington, D. C., 1940, price $.10

An Eye for Pictures by J. Ghislain Lootens
New York World Telegram, 125 Barclay Street, New
York City, 1940

Forums on the Air by Paul H. Sheats
The Federal Radio Education Committee, U. S. Of-
fice of Education, \Vashington, D. C., price $.25

Goal-Hi by Dr. Forrest C. Allen
The College Press, 1939, price $1.00. Official rules
book on Goal-Hi

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Our Tin Can Gardens

(Continued from page 231)
six hours a week. “Seeds Furnished” refers only

to those provided by the project. The actual num-
ber of varieties included in gardens is mucl
larger. Our seed purchases are planned for be;
ginners and are chosen from the following: Flow;
ers — zinnias, marigolds, portulacas, petunias
sweet alyssum, balsam. Vegetables—radishes (2)“.
lettuce (2), beans (2), carrots, beets, cabbage
summer squash, sweet corn, cucumbers, tomatoes;
potatoes. i

The varying costs as related to the number of
gardens for the same years, reflect the fact tha}
each year the size of the average garden has in;
creased, due to the presence of a few large gar;
dens, some singly, some cooperatively cultivated
The commonest garden will always be the twenty}.
five square feet allotted to young beginners,
Practical results for many boys have been immedi}
ate jobs for. some and, through visits to agricqu
tural schools arranged by us, an awakened ambié
tion in others to secure advanced training.

Camp Fire Girls Learn to See
(Continued from page 236)

lications, as well as others. Seeking help with a
shell collection took them to the State Museum,
where the custodian was surprised and pleased to
find them so eager for information. They de-
cided to make a bird identification chart, and that
was where a Camp Fire father took commandi
The weather man was consulted about clouds as
weather prophets. In fact, there were a great
many people in that part of New Jersey made more
aware of the real service they could give to
young people and very much pleased with the'
interest shown.

As the Guardian who wrote us about this sum-

mer’s experience says:

“I cannot say what part I liked best—perhaps acquir-t
ing knowledge, or the contacts with other people, 1361"!
haps working so closely with my own daughter—or at?
taining a goal. or just being out—of—doors with real
friends. But this I know, I am a better Guardian and a
happier mother because of this summer’s experience. Try
it! You may not have any more scientihc information
to start with then I did, but you’ll learn as you go, and
I’m sure you will enjoy yourself.” 4

And that, we think, is a challenge to all recrea‘
tion leaders, volunteer and professional, especially
those few who still keep the book of the natural
world tight closed because they are afraid to turn

its pages.

1

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

llntroduction to Community Recreation

Prepared for the National Recreation Association by
l George D. Butler. McGraw-Hill Book Company, New
York. $3.50.

" RECREATION WORKERS and all interested in the movement
will welcome this important new book which will
prove an encyclopedia of information regarding the rec-
l reation movement, particularly in relation to the part
played by governmental agencies. There are seven parts:
llPart I—Recreation—Its Nature, Extent, and Signifi-
';cance; Part II---Leadership; Part III—Areas and Fa-
ljcilities; Part IV—Activities and Programs; Part V—
. lThe Operation of Areas and Facilities; Part VI—Pro—

l
l

'lgram Features and Services; and Part VII—Organiza- ‘

lition and Administration Problems. There is also a
l lbibliography.

pl Not only recreation workers, city officials, and all in-
,lterested in the promotion of recreation in its varied
Ilphases will find this 550 page volume valuable. It will
serve colleges, universities, and all institutions giving
Lcourses in the training of recreation workers as a prac-
p'tical, comprehensive text book.

|

. How to Produce Puppet Plays

|
| By Sue Hastings and Dorcas Ruthenburg. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $1.75.

lTHE AUTHORS have given step-by-step instructions with
‘ clear diagrams showing how to build a stage, make a
Lpuppet, publicize the show, and handle all the other de-
ltails necessary to the successful production of puppet

plays. The methods recommended may be followed easily
land effectively by the novice and amateur.

' Leisure for Living

By Sydney Greenbie. George W. Stewart, New York.
:‘ $2.50.
3 MR. GREENBIE and his wife, Marjorie Barstow Green-
bie, have for years been cultivating the arts of lei-

sure both in their life together and in their writing. As
IMrs. Greenbie, author of The Arts of Leisure, writes in
her introduction to her husband’s book, “our conception
of the arts of' leisure is the product of our joint lives,
‘and whoever writes it, it is a family affair.”
‘ , This is a delightful -book in which Mr. Greenbie weaves
.lhis philosophy of life as it relates to our leisure time.
Leisure for relaxation, for learning, for enrichment and
:ireHection form his major themes, each elaborated in a
Enumber of chapters whose titles lure you into reading
.,them even though you are sure you haven’t the time!
iHere are a few of them: The Importance of Fun;
Formula for Living; “Likee Speechee?”; Hobbies and
“Gadgets; Growing Your Own Home; Meditations for
‘lMaterialists. Recreation workers should take time to
'read this book.

 

 

The Junior Party Book

By Bernice Wells Carlson. Cokesbury Press, Nashville,
Tenn. $1.50.

HIS BOOK, containing suggestions for twenty-four

parties, has been written to stimulate the giving of
simpler, easier parties—parties that will be fun for every-
one, including the parents of the young host or hostess,
and also the parents of the children attending. The games
and other suggestions have been tested and found to be ‘
practical.

American Recreation Series

Edited by Federal \Vriters’ Project, WPA. Bacon and
and Wieck, Inc., 118 East 28th Street, New York,
Publisher and sole distributor. Each $.10.

IN A YEAR when the slogan “See America” takes on a

new meaning and travel in the United States is bound
to be greatly increased, the publication of this series of
recreation guides is particularly timely. The series con-
sists of 52 booklets, paper bound, with an unusually at-
tractive pictorial cover—one for each state and one for
Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
There are also a few guides of individual cities such as
New York City. Each booklet contains much useful in-
formation, such as a calendar. of events for each state,
population, places of historic interest, sports, recreational
areas, tours, a map, and road travel information. Dis-
counts are offered on quantity purchases.

Junior Boat Builder

By H. H. Gilmore. The Macmillan Company, New York.
$1.25.

AFEW MATERIALS and some simple tools are all the
equipment needed for the boy who would be a car-
penter and a sailor at the same time, for so clear are the
directions given in this book and so helpful the diagrams
that any boy should be able to make his own fleet. There
are directions for making amateur cruisers, yachts, river
:boats, freighters, and sailboats, and there are directions,
too, for such marine equipment as lighthouses, buoys,

piers, and wharfs for the Fleet.

Create Something

By Felix Payant. Design Publishing Company, Colum-
bus, Ohio. $2.50.

“We ARE NEVER as happy as when we are creating
something.” This is the theme around which the
author has developed his subject matter. And it has been
his purpose to present' his material on creative arts in
such a way as to make it understandable to the beginner
without sacrificing its value to the advanced strident or
teacher. Included is information on line and chalk draw-
ings, block printing, painting, mural painting, lettering,
poster making, textiles, leather tooling, pottery, modeling,

275

276 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

I

puppetry, mask making, paper construction, wood carv-
ing, toy making, metal craft, photography, and motion
pictures. Two hundred illustrations have been included
.to give clarity to the various sections of the text.

I

Civil Service in Public Welfare.

By Alice Campbell Klein. Russell Sage Foundation,
New York. $2.25.

A contribution of real value has been made in this
manual coming as it does at a .time when in increasing
numbers social workers are entering the public wel-
fare field. The civil service situation is a varying one, as
Mrs. Klein points out, and one requiring more careful
study and consideration than it has received up to the
present time. The factual material needed for such a
study is presented in this volume. Part One, devoted to
Civil Service: Its Functions and Procedures, is intended
as a primer of civil service history and practices. Part
Two, Where Social Work and Merit Systems Meet—-
considers civil service procedures from the point of view
of the effect on public welfare and necessarily deals with
some controversial factors. The attempt throughout,
however, is to present opposing points of view with argu-
ments for both sides.

Civil Service in Public Welfare is an important book
which merits careful study on the part of workers both
in the private and public field.

Tricks Any Boy Can Do.

By Joseph Leeming. D. Appleton-Century Company,
New York. $2.00.

There are directions for performing nearly two hun-
dred tricks in this book designed for amateur magicians.
All of them are so simple that in no time at all the
reader can become adept at mystifying his friends. A
great variety of tricks is offered—tricks with cards, with
coins, matches and match boxes, balls, handkerchiefs,
rings, and string; mind reading and spirit tricks; tricks
with numbers, and many others.

The Handy Play Party Book.
Singing Games and Folk Songs.

Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.

$1.00.

The C00perative Recreation Service has adopted a very
attractive and practical way of binding its Kits. This
particular booklet contains singing games and folk songs
usable 'by amateurs. With this binding the book stays
open on the piano, and its form and shape make it easy to
carry in the pocket. The booklet, contains European
Singing Games, American Singing Games, Southern
Singing Games, and Selected Folk Songs.

Face the Footlights!

By E. B. (Zeke) Colvan. Whittlesey House, Mc-
Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

This book has been written not only for actors and
those who would be actors, but for directors, coaches,
and all interested in the theater. Its purpose is to tell
the young actor not only what to do, but how and why.
It analyzes each element in acting and shows its relative
importance. A full set of exercises is included to assist
in the development of these elements.

Directory of Youth Organizations.

Compiled by Mary Rodgers Lindsay and Simon Uhr—
man. National Youth Administration for New York
City, 265 West 14th Street, New York.

Since 1937 the Research Department of the NYA of
New York City has conducted continuous research on
youth organizations, and directories were issued in 1937.
The enlarged 1940 edition has complete listings for 216
organizations and partial listings for 65, making a total
of 281, more than twice as many as appeared in the 1937

edition. The purpose has been to include all yOuth 0r-
ganizations nation-wide in scope, and the city-wide or-
ganizations in New York City.

The National Youth Administration has performed a

valuable service in compiling information on existing or-

ganizations for youth.

Community Schools in Action.

By Elsie Ripley Clapp. The Viking Press, New
York. $3.75.

“The work which is described here,” says the author.
“is itself a tribute to John Dewey whose philosophy and
vision of the school as a social institution prompted our
efforts to create a community school and to participate in
community education.” Dr. Dewey, in his foreword, points
to the community schools which Miss Clapp describes
as proof of what the community can do for schools when
the latter are actually centers of community life and how
communities develop themselves by means of schools
which are the centers of their own life.

Miss Clapp describes in detail the development and the
work of the Roger Clark Ballard Memorial School a
rural school in Kentucky, and schools in Arthurdéile,
West Virginia. She emphasizes the recreational and cul-
tural resources and opportunities and the influence of
these schools on the life of their community.

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEHIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAII BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT. Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUIIIIER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORIIAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIxEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINAN‘r, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WooDWARD, Washington, D. C.

